We are MythVision, home of MythVision Podcast and MythVision Radio.
I'm Dr. Luther G. Williams and my host is co-host, rather, is Kevin Maxwell.
Now we're on Facebook, so stop by and give us a like.
And don't forget to like and subscribe on YouTube.
Drop us a comment, let us know you enjoyed the show.
And be sure to visit our PayPal and Patreon blowing across the prairie of your screen,
like electronic tumbleweeds.
Joining us once again next week will be Dr. John Knight Lundwall,
author of the book Mythos and Cosmos, Mind and Meaning in the Oral Age.
Dr. Lundwall will be taking us deeper into astrophiology as part of the memory theater
of ancient people.
Now obviously, we on MythVision like to explore the past,
but some of our loyal listeners also explore the future.
And one of our famous fans happens to be in town,
at the City Zoo on a mission to rescue a rare species of kangaroo from extinction.
She's everybody's favorite time lord from across the pond.
I don't mean the Atlantic Ocean, but the Milky Way Galaxy.
The legendary interdimensional humanitarian, the gal from the planet Gallifrey.
Please welcome Dr. Who.
Is this who?
Who is here?
Uh, why this is MythVision podcast.
Who is that you?
This is who?
I don't know, you tell me.
I'm who.
Yes, that's what I'm asking.
No, I mean, I'm Dr. Who.
Sheesh.
Oh, sorry about that.
Now, what exactly are you doing at the zoo?
Who?
Actually, I'm using the loo right now.
You mean who is in the zoo loo?
No, not the zoo loo.
I'm using my new loo.
You see, whenever I'm threatened with harm by an evil alien race,
I merely pretend to have to go to the bathroom and make my escape.
Using what I call the Temporal Undulating Relative Dimension and Space Device,
or TARDIS, for store.
Now, before I leave your dimension, I want to say how much I enjoy the show,
especially the independent scholars that think us.
Brilliant minds.
I thank you, Dr. Who.
You should enjoy today's show with our special guest.
You know, Iniya, he's a self-taught student of the scriptures.
But Craig Nolan is not your average intellectual or even average human being.
At age three, Craig was interested in theology and God,
learning to read and comprehend the scriptures.
He was dissecting the texts, much to his parents' amazement.
Later in life, as Craig was found to be immense a genius living with Asperger's syndrome,
much of his life and unique abilities began to come into focus and make sense.
He's teaching Sunday school by age 10, pastoring a church in his late teens and early 20s,
and guiding international forums in his 30s.
This precocious youth found himself in many kinds of leadership positions.
With a communication style that's bold and confident,
Craig Nolan continues to prove himself in discussions with well-known scholars.
In fact, he considers his Aspergers to have done him a great service in life.
He has this special gift for recognizing patterns
and explaining subject matter in its simplest and purest forms.
And we'll explore that.
You'll see evidence of that in the show today.
A forerunner in the theology of universal reconciliation,
Craig founded Student of the Word Ministries and teamed up with Tentmaker Ministries,
becoming a global influence in the way people view God and the Bible.
He took a seven-year sabbatical of reflection and deconstruction,
and then Craig resumed his role of teacher and pastor in 2017.
He now works intimately with his business partner, Stacy Ray,
in his new company, Zovaria.
With Rhett Hale of Waterboy's fame, of course, in several Facebook groups,
Ponderlust, Pioneer, Tentmaker, and in scientific and metaphysical pursuits,
as a complement to the theological.
He's writing a book on his experiences,
set to be released later this year.
Please welcome Craig Nolan.
Craig, welcome to the show.
Good to have you on.
Thank you.
It's great to be here.
Now, you have a lot of unique and interesting ideas.
We've all heard, most of us have, the story of Adam and Eve and the serpent in the Garden of Eden,
but you have a unique twist on that.
Tell us something about this three-serpent theory of Genesis that you have.
Most people find the one serpent quite enough to deal with,
but I haven't heard anybody talk about three serpents.
What do you see going on in the text?
Well, just one of the things that I found as I was growing older
is I found a lot of religious contradictions that didn't make any sense to me.
So I've definitely looked into a lot of these contradictions
by finding those patterns that you just introduced me about.
And some of those patterns actually went and took me right back to Genesis
and how it all started.
And I was like, there was something missing.
There was something that was not taught or something in between
that people have been missing this entire time.
I shared my beginnings later on.
I shared some of my research with even Rhett, one of the co-hosts here, and even Kevin.
And the reason I'm probably here right now is because it just blew him away.
Rhett, if you follow the way his theology went, after he heard the story of the serpents,
it kind of changed everything for him.
So I'm thinking that he's probably enjoying this show as we speak.
So to start out, I'm not a scholar in the scholarly sense.
I never went to the big, huge theological schools.
I never did that.
I didn't have the money to do that.
I did the scripture studies.
I studied scripture.
I did go to Bible school.
I did get the basics, what doctrines that most denominations teach in their Bible schools.
I was in a private school in high school.
A Christian academy.
It was a Christian academy for junior high and high school.
And they taught a lot of dogmatic teachings that you're just being taught.
You're not being told to think.
And so one of the things I did as I grew older is I decided to think.
And now, whether you believe it or not, it's up to you.
It's up to the listeners to listen and ponder.
But again, when I was younger, I learned how to read the Bible age three.
That's because that was what was interesting to me.
And in doing so, I think I had a lot of spiritual resistance because at age three,
I ended up having a personal experience in which I was abused by a babysitter.
The babysitter, I didn't know that I was being abused,
but babysitter was abusing me sexually and I didn't have any clue about it.
And that night, I went to sleep.
And as I slept, I was woken up by a voice saying, Craig, wake up.
And I looked and turned and saw just in front of me a being of light with wearing a nice tan,
which you recognize as Middle Eastern wear.
The face was bright, bright, bright white.
And eyes are blue as can be, which I don't think is blue.
I just saw ocean as all I saw.
I just saw the ocean in the sky.
It was just the wide open space.
And his voice said, Craig, wake up.
What has happened to you?
You need to you need to tell your parents.
And I'm like, what happened?
He says, you need to tell your parents that you were sexually abused.
If you don't tell them, this will get worse.
And I'm like, okay.
He says, tell your mother that you've been sexually abused.
So I got up, I walked over to my parents, Broom, and I told my mom, I said, Mom, I saw Jesus.
She says, you saw Jesus.
Oh, that's great.
She thought it was all great.
And I said, he told me to tell you something.
And I'm not sure what it is.
And he said, well, what is it?
And it's like, I think I'm being sexually abused by my babysitter.
And of course, that changed the whole context and whole term of that conversation.
Immediately, she asked me to look at the details.
And the next day, my parents, of course, called the babysitter in.
And as they're having a discussion, I was sitting with my mother,
and all of a sudden, Jesus showed up again for me and said, Craig,
you must run out there and tell him that I love him and that God loves him.
Because if you don't, this is going to turn out the way that you think it is.
I have to tell you, you need to go.
So I ran up, walked into the kitchen where my dad had surrounded the guy with six of his friends.
And it was starting to get very the way you think it happened when you're confronting someone.
And I just ran up into his arms and I grabbed my babysitter.
I grabbed him and I hugged him and I said, you know what?
You're loved.
I love you.
You can tell him exactly what happened.
It's OK.
Jesus loves you.
God loves you.
And he broke down, admitted to everything that he did.
And that point is when we realized that I realized that Jesus was real.
There was a real supernatural power because I had no clue really of what actually happened.
All I knew is that God loved us and that he sent his son, Jesus, and he loves us.
And so that love, how I started my life, changed everything.
So when you have this experience, when you're three years old, four years old,
and you realize that people are teaching about you,
you need to see exactly differently.
You see differently.
You're awake to something that no one else is because you've had an experience
that shouldn't make any sense whatsoever.
I was three years old.
I couldn't make that stuff up if I wanted to.
And as time went on, I had a lot more experiences into that realm.
One of those experiences came when I was 17 years old and I cried out to God.
I said, Lord, I need to know you more.
I need to know you more because I don't think I know enough.
I need to know more.
And one of the things that God told me when I was five or six years old,
I had no vision.
He said, I'll give you the phrase of Solomon.
He says, I'll give you what you want, whatever you want.
And I actually asked for knowledge and wisdom, not for riches or wealth.
And God said to me, just like Solomon, that knowledge and wisdom is going to produce sorrow.
And it's going to, you don't have to do that if you don't want to.
I said, no, I won't want it.
So I've been studying, you know, from three years old to 17,
and I'm still trying to figure out who God was.
And I said, Lord, I need to know you more.
And all of a sudden, this guy comes into the room,
because I was actually working in a shoe store at the time.
This guy walks into the room exactly as I called out to God to show me more.
And he gives me this letter.
And then this letter open up says, Craig, you have been invited to hear more about God.
I'm like, that's interesting.
He knows my name.
He had everything.
I asked him, I said, what's your name?
He said, my name is June.
And I said to June,
I said, why did you come see me?
And how did you know it was me?
He goes, I don't know.
He says, all of a sudden, I had this feeling that I needed to come see you.
And I had this, I had this letter and I filled your name out on it.
And I came and saw you again.
Another thing I can't make up.
I mean, seriously, I just finished praying to God 30 seconds earlier.
And this guy just runs into the room, gives me this letter and says,
you need to follow me.
So I followed him and turns out that he was part of a cult, a really bad cult too.
That it was very heavy into legalism and a lot really heavy into brainwashing.
There are people to give the paychecks to people to the church and the church
gives them an income that you have to do everything they tell you to do.
You have three disciples who call follow you everywhere you go.
And I'm like, this is what God taught me that I need to learn.
Like this isn't right at all.
Because it's not matching anything that I learned from a kid.
It was the love of God, everything, you know, come up this point.
And so I went to my room into my prayer closet and I again prayed and said,
God, this is six months of this.
This is not you.
I don't see you.
And again, God showed up in a vision.
I don't, you know, I can't see the short ray right in front of me,
but in a vision, he showed up and said, Craig, and he laughs.
He goes, of course, you know who I was.
He says, you've known who I was since you were three years old.
He says, I did this so you could recognize that you knew who I was,
because you knew what I wasn't.
And we just laugh.
It was just a laughing, we just laugh.
I had a big laugh and he showed me a vision of what was happening,
how to get out of the cult.
Essentially alert about water baptism.
One of the things that they have is water baptism was essential for salvation.
And God showed me by reading the book of Acts that just by the book of Acts,
that water baptism was actually phased out.
It was actually a misinterpretation of Peter who was corrected by God three times
that water baptism is not essential to be saved.
Water baptism was not essential to receive the gifts of the Holy Spirit,
because as we know the story, even as he spoke,
the Holy Spirit fell upon the people and then he said,
go, wow, you need to get water baptized.
But God said, no, that's not how it works.
So I shared that with the cult and actually got free of it
because they were scared of the knowledge that I knew, right?
Like just from the scriptures, I didn't have to go into some great,
big, huge theological debate about it.
I just showed how the scriptures worked and how Acts changed from one
to 15 to 17, you know, 21.
You can actually see a big change.
So segueing into the Genesis story, I'm like,
if that's something that we were taught wrong about was water baptism,
what else were we taught wrong about?
And so I went back into the beginning and I looked at Genesis
and I looked at the serfents and I'm like, there's something here
and there's something different that I cannot explain.
I'm going to research it.
So over a course of many years, okay,
this is not just something that just found one day.
I have a course for many years.
I actually had to study this because it just didn't make sense to me.
Number one, we read Paul saying that the command
in Colossians chapter two verse 20 to 21, what does he say?
He says, do not touch or do not do, do not touch
or do not eat and do not touch.
Those are the three commands that are commands of men that they do no good.
But I can read that scripture if we can get there one second.
Let me just give you that scripture so that we can actually read it what it says.
Yeah, I always found it very interesting because you were actually dealing with
original sin, which is this huge topic in the church.
And it's like, and that's kind of being taught and assumed in a lot of places.
But it's not actually like, where is this idea of original sin?
Like they use this term all men, but all men is used like within these time statements.
And it's usually limited or there is Israel is limited,
which is which to me that shows like it's actually more metaphorical or something
as is pertaining to our spirit and not just the letter.
Absolutely, that is true.
Actually, that is where it started.
I didn't believe it.
I was trying to find out what this original sin was.
Like that's right.
This is a big, this includes a lot of things.
So you have Colossians chapter two verse 20 to 22.
It says, if you've died with Christ to the elementary principles of the world,
why do you, if still living in the world, do you submit to its rules and regulations such as
do not do this, do not eat that and do not even touch?
These things all perish with use in accordance to commands and teachings of men.
These practices indeed have the appearance of wisdom in self-made religion and mock
humility and severe treatment to the body, but they bet they are of no value of sinful indulgence.
So I'm reading that and I'm saying, you know, Paul just said three commands that we're told
that is the basis of Judaism are self-made religion because you have the do not do's,
which is the 10 commands.
Do not do this, do not do that, do not do this.
But then you have this weird and different command next was do not taste.
Now they say do not taste because they don't want to tell you that the word actually means eat.
So if you go to original, original, that word taste in verse 21, it actually means do not eat.
So where else did we read the command do not eat?
Of course that's in Genesis chapter two and chapter three.
And then where did we read the command do not even touch?
Which is the response of Eve when the serpent asked what were the commands given to you?
And she says, what did God tell you?
She says do not eat, but do not even touch lest you die.
And to me that was again, see I'm looking for patterns.
I'm not looking for patterns purposely.
I just see this pattern that just showed up.
And when we look at this pattern, I'm like, if that's true, then I have to read the story again.
So we go and read in Genesis chapter three.
And let's read in Genesis chapter three again.
And we read that now the serpent was more crafty.
Now we have it in our scripture says crafty, if we've settled skilled in the seat.
But the word actually is wise.
The serpent was more wise than any living creature in the field, which God had made.
And the serpent said to the woman, can it really be that God has told you
you should not eat of any tree in this garden?
And the woman said to the serpent, you may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden,
except the fruit of the tree, which is in the middle of the garden.
You should not, and God said, you shall not eat from it, nor touch it.
Otherwise you will die.
As you can see that we hear the do not eat and do not touch.
The two commands, which are commands of men, not commands of God.
So we're finding out a little bit of things that Paul's trying to tell us.
We're going back into the beginning and trying to figure out what happened.
So why did we have the story?
And why did we have the story that doesn't make any sense to me, at least,
is that when they ate of the tree, you know, they shall surely die is what we're told, correct?
But after the curses came out, what did Adam call woman?
What did he name her?
He named her Eve, the mother of living, or the source of all life.
How can you call someone who just brought in death?
How can you call someone who would be the herringer of death, the source of all life?
So again, another thing that doesn't make sense.
This story we're told does not have any fitting story.
And then God of the garden curses the serpent.
Now, the serpent doesn't say anything.
The serpent takes upon himself the full curse and does not open up his mouth.
He just takes it upon himself and he takes upon that curse.
Well, who else did that?
Well, you know, in Isaiah, we have the thing where the land who took away the sins did not
open up his mouth, but took upon himself the sin of the world.
You have a few other things such as this is a serpent that we're talking about.
What is the serpent?
Well, the serpent is in Hebrew is Nahash, and that means shining one or healing serpent.
And we see it again in Numbers chapter 21, where the fiery serpents or the seraph,
or the seraphim, came out and bit the ankles of the Israelites.
And God, the Lord God told them to pick up one of those snakes and put upon a stick.
And as they look upon him, they shall be healed.
So Moses took took it made a bronze serpent, which is a Oram Nahash, which means why serpent
put it upon the stick.
And as they looked upon it, they were healed.
Well, we see in John the parallel where it says Jesus says he'd be lifted upon as Moses
lifted the snake upon up, so shall the so shall the Son man be lifted up and take upon the sins
of the world.
Again, we see a different view of what the serpent is.
So I'm trying to figure out, okay, so we're always told the serpent is evil,
yet here we have several instances where the serpent actually is good.
The only time he's evil is in Genesis chapter three.
So in Genesis chapter three, are we looking at an evil serpent or one subtle in subtle
and skill in the seat?
Or are we looking at a wise serpent, one who knows what is good and what is bad,
and know and actually trying to educate them in something that they were not aware of.
So I look more into this.
Of course, there's a whole lot to go on.
Let's let me see where I can start with this.
There are three creation stories that we know of, three creation stories in the Bible.
We know of only one, only because we're told of that one.
And the two actually starts in the beginning.
Genesis chapter one to chapter two, 14, actually is a different parchment or a different letter
than chapter two.
And after that, what we have is actually two creation stories.
One, where God is talking, where the Elohim is created the heavens, the earth,
and then each day, you know, very good, everything's very good.
And then when we get to chapter two, verse 14, all of a sudden the structure of Hebrew changes,
the words change.
It's now Lord Elohim is talking now and gives the command,
don't eat to the tree of knowledge or good and evil.
If you're in the day, if you eat it, you shall surely die.
So we have two stories.
One where Elohim has an old, then we have like a recreation, maybe, I don't know.
A second time when man's put into the garden instead of this created out in the earth,
but drawn into the garden.
And then we have a third story, which nobody talks about, but the Jews have had this list for quite a while.
And this is about the story of Leviathan.
And you have Isaiah, the story of Leviathan and Isaiah, where Leviathan, the crooked serpent,
shall be killed as well as the sword, and they should make a camp of your skin, etc.
Well, that story actually comes from an ancient Jewish myth in which the first creation was
of the sea serpents.
And God, the Elohim, put the serpent in charge of creation, put the Leviathan in charge of the creation.
And he oversaw and was a protector of that creation.
Now, this makes me very interested, because there is now a serpent, according to the Isaiah,
there's a serpent that's according to the Jewish myths, that actually was put in charge of God's creation.
So was this the same serpent of the wise serpent that we see in the garden, or was there another one?
Well, if we go into Ezekiel, and you see, you know, the famous story, I'm just going to bring it up here
in a moment. Any questions?
If you're going in there.
Where did you find those, about those Jewish myths, was that on the Jewish website, or was it?
Yeah, it's through a lot of reading on the Jewish religion and the ancient Jewish religion.
One of the few things that the rabbis are not allowed to teach is the ancient ways.
But you'll find the odd one, because the internet will actually let go some of this ancient knowledge
that they're not supposed to be talking about, because the Midrash changed that information.
So they don't really like to talk about it, but for historical purposes,
they'll bring it up saying, well, we used to believe this.
And then that's how they can get around that Midrash.
But yeah, that's all right. You can go on Wikipedia, you can read about the Leviathan myth,
if you want as well. So there's lots of places that you can now read it.
This is very exciting. This is very exciting. So are you going to take us by chance to Ezekiel 28?
Yeah, Ezekiel 28, that's correct. Okay, excellent.
I'm not sure where all of that fits into the creation scheme, but I know you'll explain it.
All right. Well, in the creation, of course, we know that Ezekiel 28 is talking about the
King of Tyre or King of Tyre, who was given rule over the most profitable city in the
Mediterranean at the time. And he had lots of trade and had everything. But then it got so much
that he actually in his heart said, I am God, and I sit upon the throne of God. And in his heart,
he raised himself up. And we can actually read that God actually refers back to the beginning
into Eden, when he says, you are in Eden, the Garden of God. Every precious stone was your
covering, the ruby, the topaz, the diamond, the barrel, the onyx, the jasper, the lapis lazuli,
the turquoise, and the emerald. And the gold, the workmanship of your settings and your sockets
was in you. They were prepared on the day that you were created. You were the anointed cherub,
who was who covers and protects. And I placed you there. You are the on the holy mountain. You walked
amidst the stones of the sparkling jewels. You are blameless in your ways from the day that you
were created, until righteousness and evil was found within you. So we have the story of Tyre,
but then all of a sudden God goes back to the creation. He goes back to Eden, talking about
something that happened in the beginning. And there was someone who was placed in charge of
the Garden, who was the guardian cherub. And then in his heart said, I am God, and began to act as
God over that which he was put in charge of. So when we look at the precious stones, well, we know
if you know about the priesthood, they had the holy vestments. Well, those are the sockets of
the holy vestments. That's the priesthood. And so we take back into Garden, the Garden of Eden.
Well, the Garden of Eden, from what I'm told and from what I've studied, is actually a metaphor
or a, it could be literally a temple of God. It was a temple of God, and the high priest was
overlooking it. Adam and Eve were brought into it to take care of the temple, but they were not
allowed into the holy holies, and they were not allowed to do things that they weren't supposed
to do, et cetera, et cetera. But whoever was in charge, which was the Leviathan, because we're
told in the ancient Israel Christianity that the Leviathan was placed in charge, his heart was
corrupted, and became, called himself God, and walked amongst those in the Garden. Well,
we see also in Genesis chapter three, when after eating of the tree, they hid, correct? And they
heard God walking in the Garden. Well, we have a total parallel from Ezekiel chapter 28. You are
walking amidst the stones of sparkling jewels. You're walking in the Garden, and we have Genesis
three, the same anointed cherub who was corrupted, calling himself God, was walking in the Garden.
And we have now two of our serpents described. We have now the subtle serpent, who was the
wise serpent, and now we have the Leviathan, who claimed he was God, but was not, and walked
amongst the Adam and Eve. So the question is, was the God in the Garden, the Lord Elohim,
was that actually the Father? Or was that the creature, or the being, who was anointed
cherub, who was put in charge of the Garden, who called himself God, then went and put these
commands towards Adam and Eve? Because again, in the beginning, Paul says, the command, do not eat,
is not a command of God. That's a command of man. So we look and see, that's very interesting. So I
need to back that up, and I need to figure out if that's true. So let's go into Genesis chapter two.
Looking at Genesis chapter two, we go and look and see that, as I was saying, that there's two
Christian stories, immersion to one, so you can actually have a go in there. But the Lord God
forms them, formed man from the dust of the ground, and breathed nostrils of breath and life into him,
and made him a living being. And then, verse eight, the Lord planted a garden in the east,
in Eden, and he placed man in there, and created there. And in that garden, God caused to grow
from the ground every tree that was desirable, and pleasing of sight, and good for food. And amongst
those trees that were desirable, pleasing of sight, and good for food, was the tree of life,
and the tree of good, knowledge of good, and evil. So we have, in verse nine, something that was
never talked about, is the tree of knowledge poison? No, it is not. It is one of the trees
that was desirable, pleasing to sight, and good for food. So why would God say, don't eat of that
tree? We didn't, because after that, verse 14, after he rested on the seventh day, we now have
the Lord God took man, and settled him in Eden, and to cultivate and keep it. And the Lord God
commanded man, saying, you may freely eat of all the trees of the garden, but only one tree you
should not eat of, from the tree of knowledge of good and evil, you shall not eat. Otherwise,
on that day you eat it, you shall most certainly die. So you're looking and seeing this contradiction
now. Why would this God of love, who we know of God of love being the Father, plant in a tree
amongst the trees a poisonous tree, which he said was good to eat, and then said, no, don't eat of it,
you'll die. That is a contradiction, because nowhere do we read that there was a poisonous tree
amongst the garden. We read that was good to eat. The only time that became an issue is when the
command was given, and the command was do not eat. Which again, we come back into Paul saying,
that is a command of man, not a command of God. God never commanded Adam and Eve not to eat of
the tree, because you see two different creation stories. Up to verse 14, it changes, because
it goes from God, now to Lord God, two different beings are being spoken of here. So when the
Father rested on the seventh day, then he put in charge, the Leviathan was put in charge of the
garden. Leviathan brought man into the garden, and then gave him a command, do not eat of that tree.
Well, why would you want to eat of that tree? Well, the reason he didn't want you eating of
that tree was because the serpent tells you, now that's it, the why the serpent tells us why.
He says, God did not tell, the serpent said to the woman, you certainly will not die,
for God knows that the day you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God,
knowing the difference between good and evil. So the serpent just told them why God told them not
to eat of that tree. Is that a lie? Well, no, it's not, because we see why God kicks Adam and Eve
out of the garden, he says, and the Lord God said, behold, man has become like one of us,
knowing the difference between good and evil. And now what stops him from taking up, taking
the tree of life as well? Therefore, God, or Lord God, sent Adam out of the garden
of Eden to till the ground until which is taken. So God drove the man out, and to the east of the
garden he placed and stationed a cherub with a sword of a flaming blade, which turned round and
round to protect and guard the way of the tree of life. So we see that that the serpent and the
nephish serpent did not lie. He told the truth, he said, the moment you eat of it, you shall become
like God. And God admitted it in verse 22, behold, they become like us. Therefore, we can't keep them
here anymore. They kicked them out and placed in stationed in the gate a cherub with a flaming
sword. Well, this is a third serpent, the cherub with the flaming sword. The flaming, we go back
to Numbers chapter 20 and 21, you see the fiery serpents are eating or biting at the heels of
the Israelites, killing them. And the word is seraph, or seraphim, which is fiery angel,
which is an angel of fire. And here we see guarding the, guarding the Garden of Eden,
a cherub with a flame of fire, which is a seraph. A fiery serpent now guards the way to the Garden
of Eden. So we can look now at what Jesus says about this when he starts taking the woes to the
Pharisees. And this is interesting that Jesus also says that something's wrong with the story,
because he also mentions it. So let's go there one second. Is that Matthew 23?
I think so. My mind, I just have all my notes. I think it is. It's the one with all the woes,
right? Matthew 23. All right. And so let me just find the particulars that I'm looking for.
So we're looking specifically at them actually not allowing them into the kingdom.
Right. Yeah, he says you shut the door of the kingdom.
Oh, there we go. Yeah, verse 13. But whoa, Gehenna judgment is coming to you,
self-righteous scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites, for you shut off the kingdom
of heaven from the front of people. You do not, but you do not enter yourselves,
nor do you allow anyone to enter and do so. Whoa, to you scribes and Pharisees,
you swap through those houses and cover it up and make long prayers. Therefore,
we'll receive greater condemnation. Yeah, so you see right there that they are the ones who
are blocking the way to the Garden of Eden. They are the seed of serpents. They are the
children of serpents. So that's what Jesus used to call the Pharisees. You are the brood of serpents.
You are the children of the serpent. Well, which serpent? The brood of serpent is of Leviathan,
the crooked serpent, Leviathan, whose first four letters is L-E-V-I. Oh my gosh, Levi, yes.
Wow. Yeah, who Moses and Aaron are part of and Moses is the one who brought up the commands
of the Ten Commandments, which is a fading glory, one of glory of himself. And he sent that down,
claiming to have seen God and brought it down and brought these commands out of do not do.
Again, going back to what Paul says, the three commands which are of man is do not do,
do not eat, and do not touch. So we have a big huge circle now of the three serpents. You have
Leviathan who walked in the Garden, who called himself God. We have the shining one who was the
serpent who warned Adam and Eve that eating of the tree wasn't actually killing you. It's actually
the Leviathan who's tricking you this entire time. And then you have the fiery serpents who were
guarding the gate to the kingdom or eat him and preventing people from returning and entering
into the kingdom of God. And they themselves cannot enter because they're on the outside,
blocking the way. So you have all those things coming together. And as you see, you got excited,
you can see how that all now brings out towards what is the law and how the law was a curse
and why when Moses put the bronze serpent into the air, that is a representation of Jesus,
who will also be raised up and the people who look upon him shall be redeemed from that curse.
What curse? The only curse that brings death. What's the curse? Well, the law brought death.
The command brought death. Without the command, sin has no power. The sting of sin
comes through the law. And that is exactly what the beginning creation story is trying to warn us
about. So we know the serpent's name was called the Nepesh or the Shining One. He's also called
the healer or the revealer of truth. He is the one who reveals the truth. So look at John chapter,
we look at John 117 and 18. Let's just look how Jesus talks again and how John wrote everything.
Craig, before we go there and as you prepare to take us to the next rest stop, Leviathan is the
corporate serpent. He's the many-membered serpent. It's interesting that if you look at him in a
corporate concept, he looks like Israel. He looks like the corporate laws of Israel. In other words,
they're collective laws. It's more than just an individual going on here, right?
You got it. And that's exactly how I saw it, or at least that's what the pattern I'm seeing as well.
And having that whole entire system being called the chosen of God and being all these things,
you know, you look at what Paul says and you look at what Peter says and you look at all the New
Testament scriptures. John says, you're looking and you're seeing that there is some kind of conflict
against Moses and the law and what Israel took upon themselves and what actually the truth was.
And so looking at John chapter 1 verse 17 and 18 says, for the law was given through Moses,
but grace and truth was given through Jesus Christ. Now think about how that was phrased.
The law was given through Moses, but the truth was given through Jesus Christ. What did John
just say about the law? Definitely not the truth because the truth came through Jesus Christ.
Verse 18, no one has seen God at any time. The holy begotten of God, the unique Son,
who is in the intimate presence of the Father, has seen him and explains him.
So here we go again. Who did Adam see in the garden? Who did Moses see in the mountain?
If no man has ever seen God, who are they claiming to have seen?
It's really interesting. The patterns are starting to come together. There is something going on.
And so the way I see it and the way that I've been studying it, because of course you just in
my introduction, I was working with reconciliation, universal salvation for all in Christ Jesus,
the work of the law was the curse that everyone's going through. The old covenant, the covenant of
death in the agreement with Hapies was the thing that was actually holding them back. And that was
that which you said there. This is the corporate side of Israel, the law side of Israel that came
after the promise that came after everything. And the way that whoever wrote the Old Testament,
whoever wrote the law, the Torah, was warning us, I think, not to leave everything that you're reading.
And that was one thing that Saint Jerome, in which we talked about earlier before the show,
Saint Jerome actually criticized the Jews for one thing, for when he read the copies of the
Hebrew Scriptures and he was translating them, he was reading them that they were not giving
him the keys to understanding. There were very much obscure in missing certain areas of the
Scripture and they said they were corrupted by the error of the scribes in the way they made
their translation. So Saint Jerome in the beginning when he was trying to come up with the
Christian version of the Scriptures actually said there's something going on with these Jewish
Scriptures because the way they're explaining it and the way that's written down in Hebrew
doesn't make any sense to me. They're missing something and he actually wrote that in one of
his notes saying that he was actually quite concerned about the corruption of the Scriptures
because they were not making sense. So he was still unaware of those errors because you're not
aware of what you don't know. So he had a thinking that there was something wrong with those Scriptures
but because he was never told there was something wrong because he was taking his advice from the
Hebrews about what the Scriptures were at the time. They were trying to make their own religion,
which is Judaism of the 2nd century. They would never have told Jerome actually the ancient
ways because the ancient ways got changed in a midrash in the 2nd century ECE. So Saint Jerome
would never have known the ancient religion of the Jews and they changed it in order to mask a
lot of that situation. That's why when Jerome was reading the old Hebrew Scriptures and he was
getting the interpretation of it, it didn't align to what he was trying to say. So again,
he takes us back to Augustine. Everyone's looking at this and saying, well, who is a serpent in the
garden? Who are these serpents? And they confabulated all these serpents, all three low serpents into
one serpent, making that serpent the devil in the garden and made the story that the devil was a
serpent trying to give you the knowledge of good and evil. In fact, the truth was the serpent in
the garden was actually giving you life because without eating the knowledge of good and evil,
they would never have known about the tree of life and they ate of it because what did Adam
call his wife? He called her the source of all life. They actually did eat of the tree of life.
If you look at Hebrews chapter 5, you'll find out some interesting situation about the
knowledge of good and evil. Yeah, the mature, he's talking about the mature in the babies and
and eating. That's right. So they're eating. So in Hebrews chapter 5, verse 11, concerning
this we have much to say, for it is very hard to explain since you have become dull and sluggish
in your spiritual hearing and disciplined in listening. For though by this time you should
be teachers, you actually need someone to teach you again the elementary principles of God's word
from the very beginning. And you have come to be continually eating of milk and not solid food.
For everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness since he is a spiritual
infant. But the solid food, that which you eat for the spiritual mature, is for those who senses
are trained and practiced to distinguish between what is good and what is evil. Or in my terms,
the spiritual mature are the ones who've eaten of the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
Wow. Yeah. And like, it says in somewhere in Galatians that the law is not of faith. So would
you say that Adam and Eve were actually taking a step of faith? They're actually demonstrating a
lot of what even Jesus was doing with the law in the Gospels. Right. They were stretching it. They
were questioning it, realizing that what was saying said wasn't actually supposed to be true.
And they were not supposed to be doing that. You have them back in the beginning, Adam and Eve,
like you were talking about, when they ate the tree, the first thing they did, what was they did?
They hid. Right. They hid. And people say, oh, look at that. They hid. They must be ashamed.
Right. Because that's what the scripture says. They hid in being ashamed. So then people assume,
that's what St. Jerome said, and Augustine said, is that, well, you wouldn't hide if you were not
guilty. You wouldn't hide from God if you didn't do something wrong. Right. But we have the Psalms
that says in Proverbs that says that a wise man, someone who has gained wisdom in the sight of evil,
hides himself. But the one who is a fool will open, will stand openly, taking upon himself the
punishment. I'll have to find that exact scripture. But what did, what did, what happened when the
aid of the tree of good and evil as their eyes were opened? They saw exactly who was in the garden.
They knew exactly the being that called himself God was not the father at all. And they hid from
evil because they knew that creature, that being, whatever he was, what lied to them. And they knew
evil was there. So they hid in the presence of evil. Craig, Craig, marvelous explanation.
Let's zip forward, if we can, to Luke chapter 24. And I think it's before verse 45. But anyway,
it's the road to Emmaus. And Jesus has been crucified. And he's risen. And he's walking along
with these two travelers, Cleopas and his unnamed companion. But they don't recognize it until he
stops with them in the town of Emmaus. And then he breaks bread with them. And it says that through
this mystery of communion, their eyes were opened. Isn't it interesting we're talking about two in
the garden whose eyes were opened and two on the road to Emmaus whose eyes were opened in the presence
of Christ and actually partaking of him? Absolutely. I mean, there's lots of parallels. There's
absolutely lots of parallels. You got the apostle Paul, who was blinded on the, on the road to Damascus,
but his eyes were opened to the truth of who Jesus actually was. So he was blinded,
yet he was made awake. I mean, there's lots of, lots of examples, parallels that you see. And
you also see that the Proverbs or the, sorry, the prophets warned, always warned Israel about
the, the knowledge that they call the knowledge of good and evil. But saying that you can eat of
it is the law is lying to you. The law is trying to restrict you and put a hedge against that tree
of life because the people in power, who were the kings, the judge, or the judges, the kings,
and then you have the sex, the 72, you then you have the Pharisee Sadducee, you have the
whole top political parties were all trying to keep that power to themselves. They didn't want
the rest of Israel to know the truth. And Jesus said, behold, I give you the keys to the kingdom.
I am giving you the keys to the kingdom. I'm telling you, go back in to Eden for what reason
to eat of the tree of life because it's okay. Knowing the tree of good and evil is okay because
that's also there. And those trees are both in the garden in the same spot. Both of those trees
are desirable to eat. They're pleasant to good and good to eat, does out of sight. And exactly what
you said, noticing that the, that the fruit was desirable at sight and pleasant to eat. She took
a bite and that's when their eyes were open. Absolutely. So how does this play into like
eschatology? Because I know some people are struggling with preterism. There's a bunch of
futurists out there. And, and I'm thinking, well, if this stuff is about the law, then it must
have something to do with the first century, at least, right? Absolutely. Yeah. My in, I used to
be a futurist, and then I became a partial preterist. And as I continued doing this study,
I started realizing that all this stuff, all this we're reading is Israel's story. It's,
it's, it's the beginning was the first Adam to Israel's end, which is the last Adam. And
who's last Adam was Jesus. So definitely we're talking about something that ended in Christ.
But what ended in Christ, and we can read in the New Testament, everything, the law ended in
Christ. He said, I didn't come to abolish it. I came to fulfill it. But in doing so, he made it
obsolete. In order to fulfill what happened, the Prophets and the law said he ended up making it
obsolete and bringing in an old covenant or taking the old covenant and bringing a new from them.
And when did that happen? Well, that happened in 33 AD. And then we have 40 years, almost 40 years
later, we have the end, the 70 AD of when Israel was destroyed. We know that Israel was destroyed.
In 70 AD, Israel was destroyed in the whole nation. Israel was destroyed and was renamed
Palestine. We know that after Jerusalem was conquered, it was renamed a few years later. But
Aliyah Capitolina are from the Rome. And we know that the Second Temple is destroyed completely.
We know that ended all the sacrifice. They could not sacrifice anymore because all the
instruments of the law was in there was looted and destroyed. We have a giant
mural in Rome that shows Titus taking the instruments of the law out of the temple and
melting them down and destroying them. You also have the priesthood destroyed because they were
all in the temple at the time when it got ransacked. They were all destroyed. So there is no more
lineage. The genealogy of the priesthood ended that day because there was no one else. There's no
other child that could actually continue on the lineage. And according to the law, you needed
the priesthood needed to be ordained by Moses to continue doing these things. And now we don't have
any more genealogy of the priesthood. So they cannot any more do the sacrifices. We know that
only a remnant who survived and the remnant who survived were those who ran to the mountains,
just like Jesus told them to, and or were criminals. And they were in the Roman court
where they were, for any reason, pulled out of Jerusalem before the N.C. Jim of Titus.
But we know that everything ended in 78 A.D. for Israel, yet we're not, as Christians, ever told
the significance of why that is. Well, it's because 400 years later, they brought it all back and
saying, oh, that wasn't the end, you know, because we were the chosen people too. Christianity is
the chosen people too. We're the spiritual Israel. So if it ended in 78 A.D., how can we be the
spiritual Israel? And so you have to have a Roman group, because you'll see that none of the Christians
after 200 A.D. there actually is no Jewish Christians after 200 A.D. They're all Roman or
or are stranger Christians. There is no Jewish Christians in that time, because in that time
Judaism split into what we have today is a big rabbinical Judaism, and we have Christianity,
they both formed in 200 A.D. at the same time. So they had, they didn't want to admit that
they were destroyed, because one of the things of the ancient Midrash did not, always said the
second, the second temple was supposed to last forever. That temple was supposed to be forever,
and it was destroyed. Jerusalem was supposed to be protected, yet it was destroyed. Israel
was supposed to be forever, yet it was no more. So the Jews who survived could not understand this,
and they said, we misread the scriptures, we misunderstood, because there's only two options
they had, either believe what Jesus said, who was the last Adam, the last prophet to Israel, or
they got to make up a thing saying, oh, we just misunderstood, that was never, we were always
supposed to be, we were always doomed to die. We were always doomed for this to happen. So
they didn't want to choose Jesus, they wanted to choose their own way, and they rewrote the
scriptures, and they rewrote the Midrash. And the Midrash, the new Midrash that they wrote,
actually rewrote the ancient interpretation of the law in order to make them say that they were
always right from the very beginning. And in doing so also changed the way the letters of the Old
Testament worked. They actually removed a left from Genesis chapter one one, and put it into
from the law. So the way that the ancient ways worked was that every book of the Torah, every
book of the law, started with a left, silently or written. But it didn't start with B, which is
bet, except for in Genesis one one for some reason. And the reason being is because there's a big
secret that happens when you put a left in front of Genesis chapter one one, which I could go into
right now, because it's all about this whole thing that happened in Genesis chapter two and three is
the hidden language. Well, we can go into that and we can talk about a lot of these things. Do you
want me to talk about that? Yes, Craig, make the bridge because I want to explore this thing about
a left and about the letters. Margaret Barker has done a lot of research on that, and she
attributes it to a group called the correcting scribes. They were legalists, and they changed
the scriptures, often substituting, well, this is one of the things they did in the text of Isaiah,
they substituted the letter iron for a left. It says in Isaiah seven eleven, I believe,
ask a sign of the mother of the Lord, because the original first temple tradition was polytheistic.
And instead of the mother of the Lord, which is spelled olive bet is the word for mother,
it now becomes the people of the Lord iron bet. And in that way, you write out the divine feminine.
So that's an example. It just supports what you said. So yes, by all means, come on, let's go
into the letters. All right, so I go into the letters. There was a legend or a something that
is not considered canon because of Christianity, where I can't remember the right now what it's
called. But when they asked Jesus to read the script, the scrolls, Jesus actually argued with
them about who the father was. And he argued about the father because he said that you do not know
the letters. And he said, because you do not know the letters, you will not find my father.
And I heard that story a long time ago. I don't know what story that is. I know it's one of the
one of the one of the pseudo pseudo gospels that came out. But it could be pseudo. I don't know.
But I heard a pseudo gospel. But that story actually stuck with me because I'm like, wait a
second, Jesus actually talked about a left and how a left was actually left out. So even at the
time of the Pharisees, he argued with them saying, you guys forgot a left. And you have you and that
really stuck with me. So I looked at what the word left was or what the letter A is what it is.
We have the Greek and the Roman Latin and then what we have today is letter A.
So I looked at the letter A and I said, what is the letter A? And you look in the Hebrew
letter A is the word for the hidden God, the invisible God. So that's why it doesn't get written
when you read Yahweh or Jehovah. You don't see the vowel A, you see the letters, but you don't see
the vowel because there was no vowels. See, this is the other thing. There is no vowels. So why would
they leave out the vowel A out of Jehovah's name? And that is because it is the silent letter. It is
assumed when you read Jehovah, you read the A in there. You don't, but that's what you're
taught to read it. That's how you're taught to read it. And that's what the people of Israel
were taught to read Hebrew. So when Saint Jerome went to read Hebrew, they didn't teach him about
a left. They just told him that's how you always felt. They didn't tell him that you assume that
there's a left written in there, you know, so forth, because they were in the middle of changing
their scriptures. So they changed it with the book of creation, the Jewish book of creation,
which is, let's see, my mind just went blank here because I'm in the role. The Sefer,
Sefer Yetzirah is the book of creation. The Sefer Yetzirah was written in the third century
to explain the letters of the Hebrew language. And they changed where the left was actually
located in the law. So I was like, okay, well, what happens when you put the left, the hidden
letter in front of Genesis 1, 1? If you do that, you have a left bet. So A, B, just like you said,
the defined feminine or the divine parent sitting there. It says right in the beginning, in the
beginning, God, in the beginning, father or parent, in the beginning. It's not Barasheet,
it is Aleph Barasheet, which means the father in the beginning created. See, we have this,
but we read the whole thing differently. We read that in the beginning, God created.
But when you put a left in front of it, it says the father in the beginning created.
The only other time we read this is in the Greek scriptures where they were told,
there are split ups, there are all 72 were split up into two by twos and said,
write the Hebrew into Greek. If there is any deviation in this, you will be executed,
is what the Greek king there at the time said. And so they brought through and the first thing
they did was in the Greek scripture says, God in the beginning created the heavens and the earth.
That's the only time you read God in the beginning because they had to, because the Greek does not
write like the Hebrew. So they actually revealed a secret that was supposed to happen in the Greek.
They revealed the secret they weren't supposed to tell anyone was that God started Genesis chapter
1-1. So the Greek scriptures say, God in the beginning created the heavens and the earth,
whereas the Hebrew scriptures, because they don't put a left in there, says,
in the beginning God created the heaven and earth. Why is that important? It's because when
you put a left in the beginning of Genesis chapter 1, you have, I'm just going to read here,
our father, okay, father in the beginning created the Elohim, the heavens and the earth
is what happens. It changes the whole structure of the Hebrew. So now you have
Genesis chapter 1-1 saying, father in the beginning created the gods, the heavens and the earth.
And according to the Jews, there is only one God. They're monotheistic. But if you put alpha,
a left in there, sorry, you actually have now the father created the gods, the heavens and the earth.
So now we know that the Elohim is not the father. We know that every time you read Elohim in Genesis
chapter 1, 2, and 3, that is not a creator being. That is a created being who is told to
create and garden, look over the garden, look over creation. The father has always been invisible.
And what we have Paul saying, Jesus is the image of the invisible God. Jesus is the visible image
of the invisible God. So Paul even understood this saying, there was a hidden invisible God.
And when we go into the original ancient interpretation of the scriptures, you actually
have the father or the divine parent in the beginning created the gods, the heavens and the
earth. So that's very much interesting because now we go into John chapter 1. Oh, so A, B,
let's look at a left bet. Let's just look at a left bet. You told, you already said it,
it's the divine feminine, it's the divine parent, but it is also the alphabet. A left bet is alphabet.
That's the same word. And what is found within the alphabet? What things are found within the
alphabet? Well, everything is found within the alphabet. You can spell every word,
everything in creation is found within the alphabet. So anything you can come, kangaroo,
earlier in the introduction for Dr. Hu, kangaroo is found in the alphabet. Why? Because it's
spelled with K-A-N-G-O-O. So you have kangaroo, sorry. You have those, you have, you have those
words because they're spelled with letters in the alphabet. So let's look at John chapter 1.
Look here at the beginning. So John chapter 1 is a rewrite, a rewriting of Genesis chapter 1.
So we look at John chapter 1 and this read it out. Sorry, my, my,
my period's froze here. I'm reading the Bible. Okay.
John 1 and 1, first verse. Yeah, so it goes. Yeah, yeah, first verse. Yeah.
So we're looking, in the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was God.
Okay. So in the beginning was the word. What word? Logos. What does Logos mean?
John chapter 1, first one. In the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word
was God himself. The word is Logos. Logos is, is the logical progression of the words of how
you spell it out. In the beginning was the word alphabet. In the beginning was A-B. Right.
Because we know from Genesis chapter 1, verse 1, when you put alphabet L-F-B,
in the beginning was the word. Well, now we can switch it to saying not the beginning was the
word. It says in the beginning was the alphabet and the alphabet was with God and the, was with
Elohim and the word was God himself. So we also read in that whole thing, we're reading now that
the word was the Father, not just Jesus because Jesus is the invisible, is the visible God. So
in the beginning was the Father and the Father was with God and the Father who was God himself.
So we have, we have a different now interpretation of chapter 1. He was, and we're talking about
the Son of God, was with God. All things were made and came into existence through him and without
him, not even one thing was made and came into being. And him was life and the life was the light
of all men and the light that shines in the darkness and the darkness didn't understand or
or appreciate or reserve it. So we have in John chapter 1, rewriting again the Genesis chapter
1 story, telling us exactly what actually was in the beginning and what in the beginning was
the word, which was the alphabet, which in which all things came into being. We also have Colossians
chapter 1 verse 15 and 16. There's another creation story. This is Paul's creation story.
So Colossians chapter 1
and he, 1st 15, he is the exact living image of the unseen God, which is the Father,
the firstborn of creation. For by him all things were created in heaven and earth,
visible and invisible, whether thrones, dominions, rulers, authorities, all things were created
and exists through him, before him. And he himself existed and is before all things. And in him,
all things are held together. He is also the head of the body, the church, the beginning,
the firstborn of the dead. So in him occupies the first place. For it leaves the Father for the
fullness of him to dwell in him. And through the Son, or it can sound all things to him,
making peace through the blood of the cross, whether things on earth and heaven. Here's
this Paul now rewriting or retelling Genesis chapter 1 to 3 saying that the Father in the beginning
created the gods or the Elohim, who we just said here is now Jesus Christ. And through Jesus Christ,
he created the heavens and the earth. So now you have Genesis chapter 1, the original ancient
scriptures actually talking about the fact that the Son was there in the beginning. And
Aleph Bet, his father, but Aleph Bet Beresheet says the Father through the Son created.
So when you actually go in further, you'll actually get even further into what was actually
being said. The Hebrew letters rearranged themselves now saying in the beginning, the Father and the
Son created the heavens and the earth. Wow. I don't think I've heard that before. Now you know why
the Jews tried to rewrite the whole entire interpretation of the scripture because they
did want to admit that Jesus Christ was the Messiah, the last Adam, the last prophet to Israel.
They did not want to admit that. And so they rewrote it. And in doing so, tricked Saint Jerome
into writing a scripture, into writing the Hebrew scriptures the way they told him to write it.
And so now we have a corrupted version or understanding of what the Old Testament actually
said or at least the law actually said in the first three chapters of Genesis. And what they were
doing, linguistically, you just pointed out, Craig, they were hiding the presence of the
Father in the very beginning. Right. And so that's profound. They got on Jesus' case because
he said God was his Father. And in fact, they said, well, they explained it in the scripture,
saying that he made himself equal with God, saying that God was his Father. And so all of this makes
perfect sense. But we can go forward with that and you'll tell us something about the fatherhood of God
and why that's important in the sense of all people, what the religion became. Right.
Right. Yeah, absolutely. In the progression of all this, this is stuff that actually made me come
to a realization that we're reading Israel's story, that the first Adam actually wasn't the first man
because I told you again, there is two creation stories in Genesis chapter one and two. One is that
all mankind were created. And then we're told another story where the new mankind is created,
which is Adam, who is the first Adam of Israel. And you can go to Luke chapter three and you
can actually see the genealogy of Israel starts with Adam in the garden. The last Adam was Jesus
Christ. So that in between is a genealogy of Israel. And so we know that because Melchizedek,
who was the priest who introduced the Father to Abraham, well, what did he say? He was one who
had no genealogy. He was one who had no mother or father because they didn't record it. And because
they didn't record it, he was not part of Israel. So what we actually have is a story being introduced
by an outsider who is not Israel to the father who then they took upon themselves to make an
agreement with that father and have a covenant with God and we're seeing their story. But the truth
of the matter is that the father was introduced to Israel by an outside party through the priest
to the Melchizedek. And that's why Jesus now sits on that same throne because he is now representing
the father, whose father of all, not just some, he is the father of everyone, not just Israel.
Israel wasn't the chosen people that they to themselves, they were the chosen people and
that's fine. That's good. That's how they live. That's that's their civilization. That's where
they went. But in the bigger picture, the father is the God of all. The bigger picture is that we
are all children of God. We're all sons of God.
Powerful. Now you read why Paul stated to the to the Roman generals and the Greek
and the Greek judges that just as your prophets wrote, in him we live and move and have our being
at just as your prophets, we are his offspring. So they he was already confirming with even the
strangers, the ones who were not part of Israel, that we all are the same. We all come from the
same father and the same God and the one God who a God of us all. So yes, absolutely. Once you get
to that point, you know, you got that story. Now you know that God loves you and the whole people
who have been trying to hide it from you has been religion the entire time. Religion, the law,
the legalistic rituals and stuff has been trying to hide that knowledge from you
because they don't want you to know. They hide you like behind the parchment. They hide you,
they hide you with the skins in the garden because they don't want you to see it. Now that word skin
in the garden of Eden, when Adam, when God finally gave him the skins, everyone's like,
oh, they give him clothing. Well, no, parchment actually are the skins being parchment. And the
first according to Judaism is that when you become a Jew, the first thing you need to do is
write the laws out in parchment and then you carry the parchment with you. The parchment counts as
what's called a hedge from your sin so that you will not be judged in by the wrath of God for
disobeying their sin. Well, who is the wrath of God? Which God were they're scared of? It wasn't
the Father because the Father isn't the one who came to command. It's the wrath of God of the
God who was in the garden who said, you disobey me, now I'm going to kill you. And so he gave them,
in his mercy, gave them the parchment so that they could pass on these laws of do not eat,
do not touch to the rest of the children. And that's, again, the history of Israel.
Right. My gosh. Go ahead, Kevin, do you have a question at this time?
Well, I looked into this some more and I started noticing there's all these different
mythologies that have the serpent. So I was reading like Hermes Tri's Majestis and he has
this conversation with Pie Mander and you almost have some of this language from John chapter one
and Genesis chapter one. And so you have the elements, you have the spirit was hovering on
the waters or the smoke. And so I'm like wondering, okay, this serpent theme seems to be like almost
everywhere in the ancient times. And it's partly because like the serpent, of course,
they can't talk, but it can shed its skin. So the skin, again, you said it's like this covering
or a tent. And I'm always thinking about how that plays into like the zodiac. And like in Psalms 19,
you have the speech without speeches in the heavens. And of course, the symbol of the zodiac
was the serpent biting its tail. And of course, you have like the serpent constellations and the
hydra and Draco. And I'm like, so I started realizing, okay, well, this we've kind of
almost dealt with original sin. We've kind of seen, okay, this is a cycle where all fallen,
the first Adam, all I raised in the last Adam. So I'm wondering, how much is this? Does it come,
do you think comes from the zodiac? And that's just more of an honest question. And
because I know it's in the temple. But of course, the temple seems to represent a lot of this stuff.
So how do we discern, okay, where did this actually come from? I don't know.
Well, I'm with you on that. I'm finding I did the same thing, miss, I did the myths too.
And I'm seeing that even North American myths, you know, the serpent was actually,
you know, representative of Christ, actually, one of the Aztec myths was that the serpent God
arrived, was killed and crucified, because he showed them the light and darkness, or that was
good and evil. They actually crucified, he resurrected from the dead, and either rise from
rose from heaven, or went away on a math of serpents into the ocean back to his home, which
almost mirrored the exact same story of Jesus Christ, you know, coming in as a serpent, teaching them,
you know, the knowledge of good and evil, and then he was crucified, and then resurrected,
and on the resurrection gave them life, and raised up in the heavens again. So we have these stories,
even for the Aztecs, almost mirroring, you know, what happened in the Israel story. So I think
the big story about, you know, you're talking about the zodiacs, you're talking about, you know,
the constellations, everything. I personally believe that every religion, or at least every
attempt is being used, because inside us, if we are children of God, then inside us also
is the deity, we're divine, and we have connection to that divine knowledge of who we actually are,
and we're just telling a story, trying to find that again, and trying to understand who we are,
because we've been lost for so long, under the guise of religion, that the very point that,
when we become spiritual, we start looking inward and saying, hey, that didn't fit the paradigm,
like, why did Jesus come see me when I was a kid, and being abused? You know, I mean, there's many
people hearing, listening to this podcast, who were probably abused as children, saying, I wish
Jesus would have came and seen me. I don't know why Jesus came and seen me, but the thing is,
he did, and that doesn't fit a lot of what Christians are trying to tell you, is that Jesus
can't come back and tell you, he hasn't come back yet. He, you know, he's come back in the future,
or, you know, you have the prayer of saying, well, there is no more supernatural power,
you know, that all ended in 70 AD. You know, I'm like, no, that's not true at all. You guys are
all stuck in your legalism still in your minds, and you're not letting the spirit of God actually
come out, and you're not actually letting that love that we are, the divine force of love,
actually start to manifest and work in us. And when you do that, you start to realize that,
maybe all religions were just trying to explain what we are, and we just didn't see the picture,
we weren't fully awake to that full picture. And so you have them looking at the stars,
seeing these serpents. You see them writing stories in the constellations, and trying to share
and pass on that knowledge to the next generation. And I think personally, outside Christianity,
the Christian context, I think I have an idea of what happened, but it's just my opinion,
but it's been sourced out to many. I've asked many people to look out, look for it,
and they've seen it too, where that God, the Father, is God, broke himself down into what's
called fractals, and he has broke down through the many levels of reality. So we have 10
dimensions of reality, and we've been filtered down to the third and fourth dimension, and that's
who we are. And the reason we do that is because the question I ask people is, let's pretend there
is a God. I know this is a fallacy. I know this is a fallacy, because the other one,
let's just pretend there is a God. Pretend there's a God, and this God is God. He is all-powerful,
all-knowing, all-seeing, and all-present. And then we'll add on that extra one,
all-good, omnibenevolent. If we have a God who has all five of those qualities,
tell me where his free will is.
He can't make a choice. Why? Because he already knows what the choice is going to do. He can't
make a choice, because he's always present in every version of that choice. He already knows
the outcome of those choices. So he can't make a choice anymore, because he is all things to all
things. So how does God, who knows all things, who is everywhere, how does he experience life?
How can he be life if he cannot grow, if he cannot be more than what he is? Well, the only way he
can do that is by breaking himself down into little fractals, little seeds, and bring him down
through the dimensions, and you and I are born. So we are children of God, and our experiences
go back to God who gave it. Even scriptures say, dust to dust, but the spirit goes back
to God who gave it. That spirit has all that information, goes right back to God. And so God
who is infinite, now is infinite plus one, because we live the life. And then next person, infinite
plus two. And now God is infinite plus infinity, plus one, two, three, four. So God is growing. The
Father actually is growing with our experiences of life, and our personalities, and of us who we
are, we're actually growing. So we actually have a purpose here. We have a divine purpose, and that
is to understand and live a life. And that's really what it is. Without life, without us experiencing
things, we have no life. God, who was overall, all powerful, omnipotent, everywhere, and all
seeing, can't live life. So he lives vicariously through his children. And as we learn and have
experiences, that goes back to God who gave it. And so God grows with us. So God, who is love,
is not self-seeking, because he needs us. He wants to have us live. He gives of himself to us.
He's not demanding worship. He's not demanding sacrifice. He's demanding you live a life of
love, that you live a life worthy of living, because the life you're living is the life
he's going to receive. And that information is going to go right back to God, and he's going to
be a bigger God for it, and he's growing. But you now are part of God, for you are one with God.
So my belief system is that the Father overall, and we are actually here because we chose to be
here. As he broke us down through the dimensional barriers of reality, we actually got to choose
who we're going to be and what life, what experiences we were going to experience.
And then when we were born, we didn't know the previous stuff, but we actually start learning
that. And that's why the constellations matter. That's why the stars sing out and tell us our
story. That's why when we're born, there is a heavenly choir that sings our praises, because
they know that someone has been born, God has come into the world, and is now experiencing life.
So a big, huge, mind-blown situation, but it really changes every way and how you live,
because if you're God manifested in the flesh, and you are God, you are the image of the invisible
God, and you're here to live a life of love and to experience life, you take it a little more
seriously, and you start realizing that this is not just some petty little thing. This is
a complex situation. You know, you sure do, Craig. Going back to Genesis 1 and 1,
we say, Brashit Barah Elohim, but there's an understood olive, as you taught us tonight,
so it's really, Abrashit Barah Elohim. And we, the good news, right, are the Elohim that he filled.
We are the gods that he filled. This is a marvelous story. I can hardly contain it.
Your message is very powerful. Yeah. Oh yeah. It's a, it's a, it would cause
Rhett to go the way he went, so if Rhett listening right now, he's probably going to comment later
on on how big that was. For sure, for sure. Yeah. Wow. I'm hoping to get into some of this,
some of more of your experiences, but we're sort of running out of time. Maybe you could give us
like one story about sort of these multiple apparel dimensions or how you began that journey.
Sure. That's, so like I said, at the beginning, I started everything. I had a lot of experiences,
and one of those experiences happened when I was 12 years old. I was actually investigating. Again,
looking through Christianity, you know, you're told that hell lasts forever, you know, that's
how long is forever. And they're like, well, it lasts for infinity, infinite, infinite time period.
And I'm like, I need to know what infinity is. And I said to, I brought my cousin Blaine in, he was
eight years old at the time, and we both sat down and we, and we just started researching infinity.
I'm like, okay, so what is infinity? You know, how does that feel? What is exactly infinity?
And so as we started, started going through our brains are just like, ah, we can't figure this
out. I mean, this is way too big. Again, you know, what's a 13 and eight year old, you know,
doing, investigating infinity? I was actually had math equations, everything down. I was actually
doing math on what infinity actually looked like and how it actually felt and what it felt like.
And I'm like, you know what, why are we doing this? Why don't I just ask the father, you know,
let's just ask the father, what is infinity? And as we started praying, I'm like, father,
please show us in your, in your son's name, just show us in Jesus name, the infinite,
infinite, what is infinity, Lord? Just tell us what infinity is and just show us
your glorious magnitude so that I can save those souls from living a life of infinity and hell.
Of course, at the time, that's what we were taught, right? And as we're praying,
ball lightning just appeared in the center of my room. It's like, it was like, it's like,
it's a little ball of light just appeared in the center of my room. And it started,
you could feel the ozone change in the room. It was like, you smell changed, you could actually
feel the hair on the end of your, of your, the hair just down on his end. And in the middle of the
room, this black hole or white hole appeared, it was like, just like the movies, like just like,
you know, when I watch the movies to these days, I'm seeing them make, you know, versions of black
holes. I'm like, that's what I freaking saw in the middle of my room. And so I walked up to that,
that orb, that was another room, that was all powerful, full of electricity. And Blaine came
with me and we looked into the orb. And there I was looking back at myself. And like, that's
interesting. It's mirroring me, right? It's just like how we're doing right now. You know, I'm
looking at the screen and there's a mirror of me sitting there. But then it slipped to another
version of me, where I had different shirt on. And another flip to another one, where Blaine
had a different shirt on, it flipped to another one where I wasn't myself, I looked like someone else,
Blaine was standing right next to me, flip, flip, flip, flip, flip, and showed infinite numbers
of realities in which we're all looking in, seeing that there's different versions of us.
And we're like, what the, and all of a sudden it goes, and we're like, we fall, we fall down the
ground. And I get up and I sit on the end of my bed and I'm like, this is my room, we're doing this
in my room because I have a computer in my room at the time. And I'm like, Blaine, did you see that?
Was I imagining things? It goes, you saw it too. And we talked about this experience in which we
just saw a wormhole, peering into the multiple parallel universes of exactly the same versions
of ourselves with different outcomes. And that led me into what's called on the parallel universes
or multiverse, before ever was something that you saw in the news, because this is before internet.
This is before, this is before the internet came out. This was last 13, that was 92. The internet
just came out, I guess, but it wasn't available to everybody. So, you know, I learned about parallel
universes through this experience. And that's one thing that Christianity didn't tell you,
so it was one of those things you had to put on the shelf, you had to put that book on the shelf.
And later on, that experience definitely helped because now I have a different version and a
different view of how reality actually works, which maybe later on in a different story or
different to podcasts I can go into, which is, I created a system called QMC, which is the
Chiotica Mythos Companion, in which I explain the three spheres of reality and how we actually
don't exist right now. We actually do exist, but we don't exist. We're actually holograms of,
we're actually holograms. We're actually assimilation of something, but we actually are
real. I mean, the existence is here, but we're information being processed for God, who's above
us, and again, the whole thing. So, I can learn more in patient for that later on, but that was
one of my experiences I had with this time. Craig, and all these things are all of our legacies.
I mean, we can and should own that. You know as well as I do that on Facebook,
we've got this discussion of Israel only in that point of view, which comes out of
full preterism, saying that the Bible is Israel's story and exclusively theirs, and that it ended
in 70 AD. And I get that, shown from the Old Testament and bringing it all the way forward.
And some people once exposed to this doctrine have ended up in atheism. Some have been in
despair. Some right now are having a crisis of faith. What do you say to these people?
And what is it about Israel only that maybe we need to transcend? How do we get beyond that?
What's missing from the Israel only story? In your own words, Craig.
What's missing from the Israel story, Israel only story, is that the way that it's taught by a lot
of people is that God, that Israel was the only chosen people. That, you know, they take this
assumption that the Jews, what they claimed to be was actually true. And so when they say
it's Israel's only story, they're like, well, if it's Israel's story, then why did Jesus come?
Why can't Jesus then didn't come for me? And I'm like, yeah, he didn't come for you. He even says
that in Matthew. He says, I came from the lost house of the, lost sheep of the house of Israel.
And he says, he actually mirrors, he says, I was commissioned only for you to find the lost sheep
of the house of Israel, John 3 16 for gospel of the world that he gave his only gotten son
to Israel. But the big picture actually is, like I said earlier, is that they were introduced to
the father through Melchizedek, which means that there is actually a bigger story than Israel
only. Israel only is one of the many stories that we have of the father trying to show that he
actually exists and that we are his children. So we can take Israel's story and learn from
that and say that there is spiritual Jesus did come for those things. So if you're stuck on their
law, if you're stuck on a religion, look at the story of Israel and how Jesus revealed himself
as being from the father and saved them from that very law that they created against themselves.
If we start doing that ourselves, we create a religion of our own and then we get stuck and we
start becoming legalistic. We have a story of Israel in which they had a Savior who released
them from that same thing. And we can look at the story and say, Hey, you know what, that's
mirrors my life, that I can actually choose that as well and say he died for me and my religious
and I don't see in the law anymore and not free. So people who live in Israel only who are losing
their faith. Simply just, you can, I can tell you that they never knew who God was in the first place.
They had, they've been taught, they never been taught, they never been taught to think.
They were taught something to believe. And then the moment that thing that they believe was pulled
out from under them, their emotional stability broke. They had nowhere to go. And so when their
emotional stability broke, they only had two places they go either Christianity is wrong,
and we've been lied to this entire time and everyone's evil. So therefore I have to become
an atheist or number two, they have to say, Okay, it's Israel story only, but is there more?
And then they have to investigate more and realize that God the Father is the Father of
us all. And that's why Genesis chapter one verse one is so important, because just this one chapter
one was not part of the original law. That was not part of Moses's first screening. He took that from
a Chaldean or a Sumerian text that Genesis chapter one to two 14 was actually about,
they say about 3000 years older than the Genesis chapter two 15. So there is a religion,
there is a belief system that had existed long before Israel only appeared. We just have the
story of Israel only because that was the story that that perceived because they were able to
write their genealogy. They were able to write before anyone else knew what writing was. That's
what makes Israel special. They invented language essentially. And so having that ability recorded
made us, we see their story more than we have. But there were oral stories. I mean, I come from
my past, I have Anganquin blood in me. I have American Aboriginal blood. And so I went to
school for that, went to college and I went and did Aboriginal studies. And I was taught their
creation stories. And I'm like, Wow, these Christian stories almost mirror exactly what Genesis one
one says. But without the Christian aspect, without the Judaism, the Jew aspect, the Israel
aspect. So, I mean, all these people have these stories of how we come and that we are from the
father and the father came down and actually gave life to us and that we are his children.
And that's exactly what they should be doing. Anyone who's in Israel only who's following
away because, you know, someone told them it was Israel's story. They don't know if the father
then just like you said, who is your father is your father. And as we sit the Pharisee,
he said, Who is your father? And they said, Our father is God. And he says, My father is God,
then you had known me, you would have known who I was. And they said, No, you're, they said,
Our father is Abraham. He says, Well, Abraham's your father, then you would know that everyone
rejoiced for the day that I appeared. And they said, Okay, you know, and they said, Well,
God's our father. And, and that's it. And Jesus says, No, no, no, your father, your father,
you do the characteristics of your father. Your father is the devil. He was a liar and
murderer from the very beginning. And when he speaks to lies, he speaks from his native truth
or native tongue. And then he tells me, he says, Which one of you is going to accuse me of sin?
That's how he says, he just said one of the characteristics of their father. And of course,
who do we know their father was? Well, their father was the law, the father was Moses. So they
did not follow Abraham, they did not follow the father, they followed, they followed the law,
they followed Moses. And so if you're going to follow Moses, you're not going to know who the
father is. That's why they don't, they didn't know Jesus was, that's why they didn't know anything.
So if you're taught religion and not the father, and that religion is pulled out from underneath you,
who, what relationship do you have with God? You don't have any relationship with God.
So when you're seeing people fall away from Israel only, in my opinion,
it's because they were never actually introduced to the father in the first place.
Right. And like, I'm wondering how like the Catholic Church has actually changed stuff over
the last 2000 years. And like you, I remember you talked once about the, the word God itself
is an authoritative term. Do you mind expanding on that a bit? Or yeah.
It depends on the context we're talking about. I'm not remembering that right now, but
yeah, I mean, the word God, the Elohim, that is the overall encompassing of many people
over time. And I think we talked about earlier that there is, that the words that we use
don't actually represent the actual truth. We've changed the words over time and those
words have lost their meaning or changed their meaning. And in doing so, yeah, they've done
a big disservice to us all in the end. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And I remember, like the word flesh is
when you, you told me like, well, the flesh in the Bible is talking about circumcision.
And this was how, this is part of how the Israel only doctrine comes about is that you can,
you see how it's being used and then people redefine words and then you create these doctrines.
So I'm like wondering how can, how do we stop getting carried away with that?
What are the resources we can use to study for ourselves?
Well, the resources definitely are a lot now. I mean, the internet is actually big and I love
the information age because the knowledge of good and evil is finally being revealed
to the masses on an electronical scale. So you have a choice now to live. But of course,
we have to live by love and we have to live by the, the, the tenants of love and what love is.
Without love, we're not going to learn anything or understand anything because our perception
will be based on something else. So if you're not living in love, you won't even,
it doesn't matter what kind of resources I give you. If you think God is a, is a wrathful God,
you think that God is, is something that is, you know, this creature of being who way outside our
reach and he's, he's judging us all the time. Well, you're never going to understand anyway,
anything I'm going to tell you about God. But the first thing is the scriptures themselves.
And that's, that's why Israel only, yes, is Israel only, but we have the scriptures of Israel
that tells us that God has been telling him to rest for quite a long time saying, rest in me,
rest in me. But there are probably lots of people who write out there. I don't have,
I don't have anything in myself because Dr. Luther Williams just said to me, he says,
who's the people you follow? I'm like, I don't follow anyone. He goes, you're an anti scholar.
I'm like, yes, in fact, I am an anti scholar. A lot of the people, there's a lot of stuff
that I learned that I learned before I went and researched it. So, you know, this whole garden
of Eden stuff where the serpent actually was good, not evil. I found out myself, I didn't know that
till later that that's a Gnostic view. And I didn't know that later that the Templar Knights Templar
actually went out to Arab world. And they actually learned the story, the same story that the serpent
was good, giving them the knowledge and truth of the knowledge of the needle. And they went back
to the Catholic church with this new story saying, Hey, I think we've been taught wrong about the
serpent and they were executed and driven out. The Knights Templars, who were the very, very army
of the Catholic church at the time, were actually driven out because they came back with a story
that the serpent actually was a representation of Jesus Christ and not of Satan. Of course,
then you have people who now make that saying that they were following Lucifer, but they weren't.
They were actually, they were actually, they were coming back with the story that it was as a
representation of Jesus Christ from the very beginning. And you know, Craig, Craig, you
you know, I'm just saying you've given us one of the greatest stories of mistaken
identity that most of us have ever heard. Yeah. And we're really, we're really grateful for that
tonight. We've got to wrap up. We could talk to you for hours more, Craig. And hopefully we'll
have you back again on the show. Okay. For sure. So in wrapping up, let's see, Kevin, do you have
anything that you want to, that you want to finalize us with? Well, I just want to say thanks
for coming on the show. Thanks for helping like me and I know Rhett and there's probably other
people on the internet who who've, you answer the questions in the forums and you're, I think it's,
it's good that people are able to find you and hear about your experience and your knowledge
who have just come up in the church and are just taking things off hand of what these side
comments are about hell and all this stuff and it's causing a lot of anxiety. So no, I just
want to say thanks for coming and yeah, I hope you come back on again. Absolutely. And I echo
Kevin Maxwell's sentiment and for all of us here at MythVision, Craig, thank you, is we had a blast
with you. But I do want to say when I called you the anti scholar, that's not anything like anti
Christ and I was half serious there because you're really more because you're really more of a proto
scholar. You're really more of a foundational person who looks at the text afresh and finds some
things that conservative scholars that only say things that they've heard and based on ideas that
are already out there that they might miss. So for that, we are most grateful. We've had a wonderful
evening. Join Kevin Maxwell and me or Derek Lambert and Rhett Hale for our next installment.
Craig, how do people get in touch with you? What's your email? How can they reach you?
They could definitely find me by my email. I mean, Craig Nolan at gmail.com. I mean, that's just a
basic gmail but you'll see me also in Rhett's group, Ponderlust. He is on Facebook. I'm one of
the administrators there. So you can always come up and pop on and say hi. I also have a company
named Zavaria that I'm actually selling crystal bottles that help people get a little more healthier.
So there we go. My company there. You can find me through there. Sounds terrific, man. We're going
to track you down. All right, for MythVision, Kevin Maxwell and Craig Nolan. We'll see you next time.
