David Miscavige, the leader of the Scientology cult, has been known to be quite a violent figure.
In this story today with Karen Delacarier, she's going to take us into its 70 of the top executives
have to play musical chairs for their lives.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
I'm joined today by Karen Delacarier. How are you, Karen?
Derek, wonderful to see you. Hey, hi everybody.
Yeah, thank you so much for joining me today. I'm excited to hear what you have to say.
Please, tell us what you brought, because there's always something interesting pertaining to the cult of Scientology.
What do you bring forth today on this episode?
You know, Derek, I think this episode truly reveals the word cult as it relates to Scientology.
I got to give credit to the guy who leaked it to the world. His name is Mark Hedley.
And he wrote the Bible, Life is the Hierarchical Blown for Good. I think I've mentioned him Blown.
He left, he just left. And he wrote this story on the Internet.
And it has the celebrity of being the most read post of all time.
It was reposted in every Scientology and it literally hit a few million views.
The story was so electrifying to the world of Scientology and ex-Scientologists.
So this story is of the most widely read story posted on the Internet of all time.
And he called it int base musical chairs.
David Ms. Kavich was on a rampage to his mindset was, if I'm incredibly cruel,
and just land-based people into a pulpit, it's almost like Pugna.
It's almost like what Pugna is doing. I'll kill your civilians. I'll kill your children.
I'll go to your hospitals, I'll go to your schools and nurseries, and I'll pulverize your submission.
That's what Pugna is doing right now with Ukraine.
Right. It's a fear thing, a fear, control.
Right. But it's savage. The implementation is savage.
It's not just trying to, human life means nothing.
He's going to pulverize civilians, children, anywhere.
Well, that's a David Ms. Kavich mindset.
He decided that if he pulverized the CEO member executives and made them just completely, utterly in fear and dominated,
that he would get better production out of them.
It's crazy because if you make someone so harmed,
you have little facilities unless you can't operate.
Anyway, he had 70 of the top executives of the planet, the hierarchy, in lockdown.
They were in two double wide trailers, not allowed to go home to sleep.
They had to sleep on the floor under their desk.
No bed, no blanket, no pillow, just sleep on the floor.
They couldn't take showers. They had all of a twist slop to eat twice a day.
And they were in lockdown. But how could he make it worse?
He wanted to control them and make them into dots.
So one day, he told his inner circle, he had this bright idea.
They were going to play a game.
And the game was musical chairs.
I wonder where this is going.
Well, he was going to have 69 chairs there, one less than that.
All the dust and everything was removed.
It was just a circle of chairs.
And he was going to play Queen's Bohemian Rhapsody.
And the moment the music stopped, everyone had to grab a chair.
And the person that didn't grab the chair
was going to be offloaded.
Offloaded means kicked out of Scientology into the wilderness.
Some of these were married, so they never see their spouse again.
He had the power to do this.
So the music started playing.
And people just grabbed a chair.
These are people with no driver's license, no bank account.
They cut themselves off from any relatives.
There was no life for them that they knew about.
Just like in FLDS.
The only thing they know is that community.
This is the only life these people had ever known.
And the thought of being tossed off, put on a Greyhound bus
and told to get lost.
So they were fighting for these chairs.
Now Derek, give me some life for his health.
They couldn't even have sleep in their own bed.
They did seances of screaming at each other for that.
It was supposed to confess more crimes, confess more crimes.
Crimes against David was kept.
They lived a life of hell on earth.
But they were fighting to stay by grabbing a chair.
Give me some comments.
I honestly cannot imagine knowing this is it.
This could be it for me and I'm done.
I have nothing.
So it's almost like people in World War II who are starving to death
and they throw food in there and people are killing the other person
to get the food because they're starving to death.
You're literally taking people who are willing to become savages
just to survive.
So much that morals kind of probably look like they're going to go out the window.
Am I right?
I mean, it's like screw this person.
I'm going to punch him out of the way of the chair so I can have a chair.
So I'm not getting kicked out.
Is that something that you would say would fit the description?
Yeah.
He was running a terror campaign and Scientology has travel agency privileges
because they were booking so many flights.
I don't know how they pulled this up, but they do.
And they can tell if you take a plane and they type in your name,
they can tell what flights you have and where you're going.
Right.
We've been doing this spy thing with the travel agency for decades.
So because they had a travel agency,
they printed out the names of these people with various destinations.
And they showed them in a break.
This is where you'll be going to Waga Waga,
Australia to Nambeer in Kenya.
You know, you're going to be your ship there.
The tickets were printed out and these people were terrorized.
They were absolutely terrorized.
So the game went on for hours and they were down to the last 20 people.
And now it became brutal.
Now it became Lord of the Flies.
These people headbutted and slapped each other and chairs were broken.
They just became so fierce.
You can imagine the tugging strength to break a wooden chair.
They were hurling.
They were punching each other like wrestlers, mud wrestlers.
They were just, it became a savage.
David Miscavige enjoyed seeing how he could get to see all reverence to beat up
and pulverize other, see all reverence.
This was joyful to David Miscavige because he's a monster.
Yeah, that's sad.
Day after day, his actions show how similar he is to Putin.
No regard.
Where's that humanity in this?
It's supposed to be a religion.
They scream in the law courts.
We're a church, ecclesiastical.
This is, what is ecclesiastical about an incident like this?
You tell me.
No, cult, if you mean.
I can't imagine this being some, you know, just an establishment we call a church.
No, I mean, most churches don't practice these type of things.
You know, the question I have, if I might probing into this is just, did any of these people speak out?
How many people out of this group spoke about this horrendous experience?
Do you know?
I think, I think quite a few, I think quite a few.
A lot of them have departed and gone by 2005.
Things got worse and worse.
A ploy that was used was medical.
If you come up with a big medical condition, they don't want to pay the bills.
So they upload you to, you know,
a guy who's slaved for them for 40 years.
He just brought people.
Here's a South African charming guy called Owen Stocking.
And he's slaved for them for 40 years.
But once he got ill, they tossed him back to South Africa to pay for his own medical.
And now he's a street busker.
Do you know what that is?
Yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
He's been singing on the street with a guitar with a hat hoping for people.
So after 40 years in Scientology, he lives on the streets singing.
He's an old man singing for a few pennies to be thrown in his house.
This is how Scientology treat their elderly, older people.
So back to musical chairs.
One on a break.
Miss cabbage ran into someone who had tears running down his face.
And he said, why, what's up?
And he said, well, I'll never see my wife again.
Anyway, on with the game, on with the music.
And so it was a night of torment.
And then all the people who didn't grab that last chair,
they were all, you know, put into one side and so on.
The next morning.
David Miss cabbage announced a change of plan.
Too expensive to send 70 people on flights all canceled.
Go back.
Go back to where you were.
So the whole thing was a gaslighting.
And David Miss cabbage printed off these false tickets.
There was no intention to really get.
Losing 70 of your prime executives.
That have managed and run Scientology for the last 20, 30 years,
booting them all out in one fell swoop.
What would that do?
So it was all canceled.
It was all huff and puff and it was all fake.
So they didn't go.
So it was a control thing though.
He's, he's wanting to show who's in charge.
He really wants to show who's, I don't know if there's more behind it that we don't,
we just don't know as to what caused him to go into this fit of power hungry.
Let me show you why I'm in charge.
Maybe maybe there were rumors going around and rightly so that he just kept hearing
and it's time that I shut up the leadership in this church and they
understand who's in charge.
That's the kind of narcissist I imagine him to be after speaking to his own father.
I'm not making this up.
You're not making this up.
We talked to his dad.
You were a co-host with his dad and his dad was a great guy.
I mean, the one time I got to interview him, he laid it out there.
Just the crazy stuff.
So I wonder if there was a lot going on in rumors, you know, there's birds chirping
there and he catches wind of it.
Some little butt kissing leader in the group comes.
Hey, David, this is what's going on.
They're saying these things.
I'll show them Putin, Stalin, Hitler.
Let's show them.
You know what I mean?
Like that's, that's what I imagine him doing.
This, you know, the old saying, absolute power corrupts absolutely.
This was really cruel.
When I say Scientology is unforgiving, it normally has no benevolence or kindness.
It treats its own staff and seal members with ultimate cruelty.
You call it like cannibalism.
Like it is doggy dog.
It all eats doggy dog.
So when this story was told in depth and anyone can Google interface musical,
I've made it live by giving you a descriptive thing,
but it was the most widely read.
And this is where Scientology is image.
This was almost a game changer.
People were too scared to speak out on Scientology.
And then this essay appeared on what was really going on.
A cuckoo's nest.
What if the interface hierarchy were acting crazy?
Well, mostly they were victims.
It was David Miscavige that was acting it.
So there's a little anecdote to give you a little insight.
Yeah.
What, why Scientology is in a free fall.
Tell me before we end off.
Yeah.
Can such bad PR be repaired even in 10 years?
I mean, I don't know.
You have to start over.
I just can't see how you could with people like that.
That's, that would leave for most of them PTSD in this situation.
I would imagine.
And for people who are tuning in,
I can't imagine under Miscavige's leadership that that would change.
In fact, some of the few ex Scientologists I've talked to,
they've said, like,
I think that's a good thing.
If there was a decent leader,
but because he's such a horrible person,
I can't practice the philosophy of Scientology anymore.
And there are people who are,
this is the thing that really gets me.
You know, I'm a skeptic Karen, you know,
I come at things and I'm like, I don't buy it.
I'm, I'm, I'm very cautious in believing in things,
even if there's practical use to it.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
I'm cautious in believing in things,
even if there's practical use to a lot of this stuff.
I can cherry pick those ideas and say,
that's a good idea that Scientology teaches.
That one, not so good.
That one's a good idea that Christianity teaches.
Not so good.
That one's a good one.
In any religion, I can do that.
But there are people who I've talked to,
not on air,
you're like the number one person I've talked to on air,
but that have told me,
Derek, I liked a lot of the teachings,
a lot of the things.
And they said, but if it weren't,
if we had a different leader,
I may not have completely blown.
I may have figured out a way to come back or something.
But as far as having David Miscavige as the leader,
they cannot find themselves being in there.
He has too many sins on his hands to be in the position he's in.
So they cannot live that way.
I wonder, and I'm thinking hypothetical,
because I don't care that people believe.
I just don't want people to be hurt.
There's a big difference between whatever you believe is
whatever you believe.
But if it is causing you and others harm,
or it's creating harm for others,
I don't like it.
I wonder if a new shift in power happened,
and it wasn't a narcissist.
It was someone that was benevolent.
How many of these people who are ex-scientologists
would possibly entertain going back in?
Because they found something that they liked in the philosophy.
I don't know.
I think it's rotten to the core personally,
after reading Elron Hubbard
and seeing a lot of the stuff that he says,
but there's people I think would entertain it
if there wasn't a dictator running the show.
Good answer.
Yeah.
So yeah, as we're going,
don't we want our audience to please tell us
what you think about this episode.
But also, if you have any ideas,
let's say you've heard of something.
You want to hear deeper into these things
that David Scavages committed, these horrible acts.
There's a lot of stuff that he has done through the years
that we could try and highlight.
But if there are ideas, right, Karen,
that they might have about Scientology
and they're interested in hearing it,
they can comment and we'll consider making that a show.
You have insider knowledge.
We'll do that.
One comment.
What can you talk about, Captain Bill?
Both.
We did a Captain Pete video.
Yes.
We actually read the comments.
So if you've got a want that you want to hear about
or a rule or a piece of this or that,
I'm going to give it to you.
I'm going to give it to you.
Derek and I will be happy to.
Give you.
Your comment will lead into a show.
And yeah.
Yeah.
So go give Derek a little money.
Go.
A little patron, even if it's a few dollars a month,
go sign up.
That's all it costs to join as a patron.
Yeah.
And you get to view even before he is a patron,
you get little perks.
Or if you don't want to be a patron,
give him a one-time little,
just send him a little money because the.
There is no paycheck for these.
This is a fan supported forum.
Only the fans keep it alive.
Thank you.
I really appreciate that.
Look forward to seeing you on our next show.
Derek and I have plans right there.
Yes.
Bye bye everybody.
Big hug to you, Derek.
You too.
Take care sweetheart.
Bye bye.
Thank you.
And don't forget, ladies and gentlemen,
we are myth vision.
