I have to say this, Mike, this is great, Michael, because, you know, I love that kind of stuff.
The red flags that we, when we believed the text in the way that we believed them, you
know, was right there telling us stuff, you know, and we were buying the narrative.
It's so funny.
I mean, you could literally find, and they went and bought a lottery ticket down at the
local synagogue, and, you know what I mean, these guys would still be like, yeah, this
was first century Palestine, but what I love is, what I love is about what you're saying,
and it's very humorous now looking at us like, ah, they were cooking in pots, you know, things
like that is like, you can laugh at, what I love about that is, you've heard mythicists,
and I'm not saying that there wasn't an historical Jesus, it's a big thing, myth vision deals
with this question a lot, and it's not just did this guy exist, myth, this whole mythicism
also incorporates ideas of places, people, not just Jesus, and like, did these places
really exist?
Was there really this Nazareth town, for example?
This is a, you know, according to a lot of scholars that I've been talking to lately,
they're like, the place didn't really exist, it was this backwater little small little
village with a few huts, it wasn't even a city.
Well, the reason why they say it doesn't exist is because there's lists of towns that were
conquered or reconquered by the Romans, and it's not mentioned in there, so the conclusion
is that it obviously didn't exist then if it wasn't mentioned in this list, and I don't
think that's an accurate way to figure out whether it existed or not, because it was
so small it probably would not have been listed, so I don't know what the archaeological
data is, I mean, they've been there, they've been digging, and I think it was probably
around at that time, I think it actually did exist, but...
You're off.
Derek?
Yeah?
Sal?
Oh, there you go.
I'm sorry, there's a guy who made an argument for Nazareth not existing, and according
to a lot of the guys that I bump into, they're like, Bart Ehrman hasn't dealt with this,
now mind you, Bart Ehrman's been back and forth with Dr. Price at that debate, and the
myth is...
I'll let you know next time he called me.
I'll let you know next time he called me.
Right?
Yeah, right.
But yeah, they said that he didn't touch the argument, and I don't even know the argument
myself, but I'm interested to hearing some of these things you're talking about and wondering
if that has any impact on the New Testament, and dating, you know, scholars use this to
date books, such as like Titus, they say as much later, not first century, possibly late
second century, and obviously you're dealing with concrete things, but what was the Abraham
from Ur of Chaldees, what made that date later?
Do you remember that argument?
Well, Chaldeans didn't exist back in the Bronze Age, I mean, they just...
That's anachronistic statement from a Bronze Age, you know, when Abraham supposedly existed.
But the Bible says...
Yeah, so...
I'm being dumb.
Gosh, guys, it's a revelation.
I mean, look at when horses were introduced into the area, and when it talks about a horse,
you know it had to be later, Genesis talks about that.
And what's that verse in Genesis 36 where it says, at this time there had been no king
in Israel, really, you're writing back then in the time of the first patriarchs and saying
there was no king in Israel, which means that there were kings in Israel when you wrote
it.
Oh, come on, guys.
How do you know that there were no kings exactly?
Right.
The language gives it away in a lot of the cases.
So, yeah, so the Bible...
So now we have the astrological aspects coming out of Babylon.
The Greek...
This explains why there was Greek aspects of astrology in the book.
There's also things of personal astrology that was in there for David was very much a Sagittarius.
Joseph was the epitome of generosity when he was in Taurus.
So it was the beginning of the personal astrology era, which really picked up around 400 BC is
when they started injecting the planets into it.
But right now, we're just looking at constellations born in certain constellations without the
planet.
So this is an early version of personal astrology.
So we got this aspect in it, the Greek aspect.
So this is all coming together.
And there's evidence that even what they call the Book of J was...
I don't consider it to be full.
I consider it to be redacted.
The Book of J was written in segments.
So I still have my basic part that was written.
It was added to then...
Finkelstein seems to believe that the court of David came from King Omri.
Why?
I don't know.
But that's...
He draws comparison between...
He doesn't deal with the mythological aspects of David that I do, all this stuff.
He has no idea how to deal with David and Goliath.
He does get some comparison on it.
They hold that Shiva thing.
He's like, why would he even put such a negative story in there?
He doesn't even imagine why it's even there.
The other stuff that takes place seems to have happened in the age of Omri.
It's because God wrote it.
God had to write it, but the negative stuff could be included.
Otherwise, if it was just humans, they never would have put this negative stuff about their
own people in the book.
Thank you.
Well, Solomon comes in.
You're welcome, Derek.
Let's go back and see what we got.
Oh, that right there.
That is Nevidias right there.
That's him.
And of course, he favors the Moon God's sin.
And there we have the three symbols for our four symbol son.
And then here we have Venus with seven points instead of eight.
Okay, wait a minute, wait a minute.
Now, the Moon God sin.
Is that, is that the God for whom Mount Sinai or Mount Sinai was named?
I think so.
That is what I claim in my book that that is where it is.
I have that located in the constellation of Cetus.
That is like the South Polar Star for Mount Sinai.
Dude, I, I don't want to look, I know I'm going to have to let this go.
But I got to ask you one thing.
If that is so, what are the implications of Israel, according to their lore, receiving the law from the
Moon God from Mount Sinai?
What does that say about the law of Moses?
Well, it does talk a lot about sin.
No, it's not.
Don't connect it.
All right.
This is the Moon God.
Are you telling me that, that the etymology that I'm using is faulty?
Like, like, like what was his name?
Jordan Maxwell does this argument.
I don't know if you guys have heard it.
Ladies and gentlemen, the enemy of Horus, Osiris, and these gods was set.
And this is why we have sunrise and sunset.
The enemy of the sun is set.
This is where our, our etymology of set sunset comes from.
Okay.
Yeah, right?
Like that's the etymological approach he takes.
And I'm like, I don't know, man, you know,
etymogelomania, right?
Is that what they sell?
Tell like talk about parallelomania.
That's etymogelomania.
I don't know.
I know, I know that's not a word, but I've heard scholars use that term with parallels.
Michael, I got a question, man.
Our audience hasn't read your book problem.
They need to, and I suspect you talk about this stuff in your book, but you mentioned just recently,
with David and Goliath.
Okay.
That's a famous story.
Everyone loves that story.
Freakin' atheists love that story.
They love picking at it, but regardless, everybody knows it.
Everybody knows about it.
What do you say differently about that story that Finkelstein and these other people don't?
If you don't mind touching on that for a second, that'd be awesome.
I'd like to hear what you, what you say about it.
Cause I know it's a celestial slain, I suspect.
Yeah, it is.
One of the things that is common is there are other stories that are similar to it.
Egypt has one, Sainu, instead of, I think he used a bow and arrow or whatever.
May have been where it was from.
The Philistines, I think, have another story similar to it.
But no, this was, this is the constellation of Capricorn.
Goliath, I think, was in the, in the head of the goat.
And David was in the, from the tail part.
And they met, they came down and met in battle in a field.
And there was a number of stars that would indicate it.
Arbor and that, and the field in, in the, in Capricorn.
And the fact.
I think the, I think the field was called Ephesda meme.
It's just coming back to me.
It's weird how these little things, it's something like a field of blood.
It's a weird name, very elaborate there.
One of the other things that I noticed is that the original Bible, the points are all wrong.
And you know, solstice and the equinoxes in the Bible date from that Nautum sin time from the Bronze Age,
which is probably what they would have dug up in Nabadiahs.
Because the Assyrians have already changed it.
They had already changed it from Taurus to Aries, made it the first constellation and moved it on.
And now they're digging this stuff up in Babylon that contradicts that.
And they probably went back to this older stuff.
So they're doing this.
And the, now it's Solomon had this huge kingdom.
Let's get into that.
Because we're starting to drift toward the newer Testament.
Okay.
Let's go right here.
This is, I like this one.
Mark 1533.
This is the justification that the Jews gave for taking land.
And they went under John.
Hecarnaeus the first, they went and conquered other people.
And they said, no, we're not taking their land.
We're simply taking back property that we inherited from our ancestors.
Land that had been justly taken away from us by our enemies at one time or another.
I mean, it's, it's classic Sudeten land type of terminology.
But yeah, they used it to say their own land.
So the creation of this whole kingdom of Solomon would have justified them taking all this land.
And that's what they wanted to do.
They wanted to control the land from Egypt to Persia.
They wanted to get rid of the Greeks.
They wanted the Romans to help them out.
So they sent embissaries to Rome.
They actually bribed the Roman senators supposedly with a half ton of gold.
And they signed a treaty with Rome, a, that they would, if Rome got attacked, Judah would help them against their enemies.
Sure.
If Rome would help them.
Now, this got translated from the, from the Aramaic to Greek to Latin.
So the Romans didn't quite see, they didn't read it in the same light that the Jews read it in.
It was more benign for the Romans and they didn't really have to do much of anything.
So, but the treaty was there.
I think they wrote it in bronze or gold tablet or something and presented it.
So it was there.
They had a very close relationship, but not too close relationship, but they tried to get this relationship with Rome.
Also, what they wanted to do was they wanted to control, have all the Jews who lived in the Roman Empire, they wanted to have control over them to and Rome was kind of like backing off on that.
So, the big stink came about in 175 BC.
He named Jason.
Besides, he wants to wrestle naked with other men.
Right.
So, he, he builds a gets permission to build a gymnasium in Jerusalem.
You walk into a gymnasium.
There's two things that two statues are there one of his Hercules.
Hermes represents the mind.
So the gymnasium was not just a place where nude men would wrestle.
It was also a place where they would learn.
They would learn Greek philosophy.
They would learn language.
They would learn grammar.
They would learn, you know, all the mathematics skills.
They would learn rhetoric.
They would read the Greek plays.
They would read Aristophanes making fun of the Pythagoreans and all other good stuff.
And they would also wrestle naked.
They also get ready for the the Olympian game.
Now, there was a problem there.
When the Jews got naked.
One of these things was not like the other.
Right.
So they are circumcised.
Whoa.
Okay.
Oh, yeah.
And they're exposed in the Greek culture.
That's the no, no.
That is they make fun of you.
They point.
They laugh.
They ridicule.
It's considered vulgar.
You had to have it covered.
So what the Jews would do is something called a reverse.
Circumcision operation.
So they could go into the gymnasium.
And it was advertised as being painless.
And to me, that means they must have had trade with Afghanistan because I can't
understand how this would be painless.
What they would do is they would take a little sharp object and they would cut
along the shaft.
They would take the skin of the shaft and peel it back up over the head.
It kind of tie it off and then let it heal underneath.
So you would have this natural.
Shroud over the top and you wouldn't see.
Anything that was going on there's, there's also references to this and
Maccabees, but.
These are Jews who hated being Jews.
What they said.
There are Jews that really weren't big on the circumcision.
They're going in.
The nice thing under Julius Caesar,
if you had graduated from the gymnasium,
you would offer,
you could get a position,
administration position in the Roman Empire.
You leave Jerusalem, go somewhere else,
and get a nice little cushy job somewhere.
So it was, there was an incentive for people,
for Jews to go to these gymnasiums
and become like their Greeks.
And this was a very dividing spot among the Jews.
So at some point in time,
we end up with the Jews having sectarian violence.
I think the Meads came back in and did some invasion.
The Jews were divided into different groups,
some like the Greeks, some like the Persians.
It was kind of odd.
Sort of like the United States was,
where some like the English, some like the French,
and we were divided up.
We had the Federalists who liked the English
and the Jeffersonians who liked the French
and you know, that type of thing.
But we have this lady here who came in,
Salome.
Salome rolled after her two husbands.
First husband, I think, was Alexander Janius.
He was part of the Sadducees,
and he had an outbreak with the Pharisees.
He ended up crucifying 900 Pharisees.
900 Pharisees, his own people, he crucified them.
And while they were supposedly hanging on the cross,
he brought their families, their women and children there,
and cut their throats.
So while they were on the cross,
so they were dying on the cross,
they could see their family being slaughtered.
So that was some of the sectarian violence
that the Jews had.
Then he died, his brother took over,
and his brother married his wife.
Now, this caused problems.
The Bible says, yes, you marry your brother's wife.
That's fine.
But also as a high priest,
you can't marry a woman who's not a virgin.
So no matter what happened, it worked out pretty bad.
So she ended up ruling pretty good for a while.
Good kind ruler, she was the ruler of the land.
She was the queen, and she appointed her oldest son,
John Hecarius II, to be the high priest.
Problem started when she died,
and he was going to take over as ruler.
His brother didn't like that.
His brother Erastopolis II.
Notice all these nice Greek names,
the Greeks that they hated.
So they go to war, big war, battling back and forth.
Erastopolis is getting in the upper hand.
Okay.
So what happens is a couple of things happen.
Let's go back, Dead Sea Scrolls.
I believe that Erastopolis II is the wicked priest
in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
It was during his reign that this unnamed,
unknown priest was killed by him.
And this kind of sets up the whole Jesus narrative,
the righteous teacher.
There was an argument over the calendar.
Now supposedly the righteous teacher
had been everywhere, done everything.
And they were discussing, arguing over
one Passover should be.
And the righteous teacher was probably using
this first book of Enoch,
which stated that the calendar was 364 days.
He took the standard Babylonian 360 day solar calendar
and he added four days for the solstice II for the equinox.
So Erastopolis didn't like that, had him killed.
And I'm going to sidebar here on calendars.
All right, Enoch, right, lived how many years?
365, I believe it, yeah.
Yes, 365, Bible says 365 years
because that is the number of days in a year.
The issue with this is the Jews didn't have
a 365 day calendar.
Where did that number come from, right?
They had the lunar calendar, which is 356 days.
And then they had the 360 day calendar
that they got from Babylon.
And then they added the 364 day calendar.
And then they used the 19 year lunar solar calendar
that the Babylonians had, right?
Okay.
Egyptians had this 365 day year,
but it was actually 360 plus five days.
The gods had to be born outside of the calendar year.
And Toph made these five days outside
of the calendar year for them.
The 365 day calendar was not invented until 47 BC.
So when went up, hey, Julius Caesar,
you know, there's like 365 days in the year, right?
He's like, really?
We gotta change the calendar.
So he added 67 days to the calendar.
And he wanted everything to start right around
the winter solstice.
The Romans loved the winter solstice.
Egyptians loved summer solstice and Mesopotamia,
they were in love with the vernal equinox,
but Rome had the Roman solstice.
And that's when that 365 day calendar started.
And even in Revelation,
they're still using a 360 day calendar.
So I'm trying to get where this 365,
that hadn't been a very late redaction.
All right, now let me talk.
Okay, okay.
So let's see, Enoch has talked about very early in Genesis.
We're talking about Genesis chapter five,
the generations of Adam.
What do you think about that, Derek?
A 365 day calendar in Genesis five.
I mean, if I heard you correct, Michael,
and he said Julius Caesar,
do you know how late that puts Genesis?
Bro, Genesis should be called Revelation.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, right.
It was probably just a redaction.
It probably wasn't a whole round of Genesis.
I'm just being funny.
I just changed the year on that, I would admit.
I tried to look for that script in the Dead Sea Scrolls
and that particular verse, it doesn't seem to be there.
What, what happened?
Yeah, yeah, they don't have a complete Genesis.
They have partial Genesis.
So not every verse of Genesis is in the Scrolls.
Interesting.
I don't know what to make of that there, guys.
I mean, could it be later?
Could it be that these are...
Now, does the Masoretics say the same thing
as the Septulegent?
And technically, I guess the Masoretic does look a lot
into the Septulegent, because from what?
And I could be mistaken.
I mentioned this on my last show,
like Tobe a Singer, right?
He's hardcore Jew.
And he likes to delve into some interesting things
in a different way, theologically and linguistically
different than what we've been talking about
with some of the actual archeological evidence
that kind of says, ah, it's much later.
Some of it's linguistic, some of it's archeological,
but he said something about where David,
or in one of the Psalms, it may not be David,
where he says, they pierced my hands, my feet,
and the Septulegent.
It does not say that in the Masoretic.
The Masoretic text says, like a lion,
it has something to do with a lion,
and it has nothing to do with that.
They claw him like a lion, right?
Yes.
They claw him like a lion, right?
Now, he says, watch this, and he shows the Septulegent,
and then he shows the Masoretic,
and he says, look at these two texts.
Now, look at these, look at these two texts.
You know how he talks, he's got that like Jewish slant,
and it's cool listening to him,
because he's like an apologist for Jewish Judaism,
but I still love it, because he's on fire
to prove his point, and he shows one letter difference
between the Masoretic and the Septulegent,
showing whoever edited the Septulegent
was probably Christian,
and they purposely put their Christ
into these texts of the Old Testament.
So this was something he says,
if you look at the Hebrew, it makes no sense
that they pierced his hands and his feet.
Read this story.
It's talking about a lion circling them,
and this and this and that,
and then all of a sudden, they pierced his hands
and his feet, makes no sense, he said,
but they like a lion, claw him, makes sense,
and I just wanted to throw that out there,
like could these be thrown in there after the fact?
Absolutely.
I just, be cool to find something that said 364,
Enoch lived 364, and then here's 365,
that would be like, oh.
I know, I want to look for it, Derek.
Now I'm excited about it.
I know you will, Luther.
Yeah, that's my, that's my,
I do mention in my book was the famous one in Isaiah,
where they talk about the virgin being born,
and it being the young girl,
and in the intercept two agenda now,
it's the virgin from the Hebrew young girl.
My argument is that was deliberate
because it had nothing to do with Jesus,
but they knew this was an astrological statement
about the prophecy concerning the constellation Virgo,
and they changed it from young girl to virgin.
Because they knew the astrology behind it,
and it was a deliberate trans, mistranslation.
Deliberate though, yeah.
It had nothing to do with Jesus.
And hey, I mean, look, what if, and I don't know,
I haven't researched it, what if Tove is seeing us wrong?
What if the piercing of the hands and the feet
has some celestial motif as well?
But I kind of think he might be onto something
because we've been talking about this,
and the more you guys talk about it,
the closer the Old Testament and Septuagint texts
start to get to the first century,
it makes me wonder if there's this succinct flow of ideas
where out of the Septuagint Old Testament texts,
you have this natural evolution of what we see
fully developed in Christianity,
and they literally pocket it to the Septuagint
in such a way that it fits.
And we can't forget the celestial slant.
That's what I think isn't discussed enough,
which is why we need guys like you,
and more guys like you, Michael,
that can come on and go, look, look, look, I get it,
there's the politics, got it, there's the theology,
but are you guys even looking up?
You know, you're missing on earth as it is in heaven.
You're missing this celestial thing,
and I think it's because it bogs people down.
It's so much information.
They don't know the names of the zodiac signs.
They don't know the celestial systems.
They don't understand it,
and we're trying to make it dumb down,
but I'm still trying to learn.
You guys have said a few, I'm like, huh?
Well, one of the things you gotta watch is,
is, because they use a lot of old sources,
and when were things written,
and like one of the things you see that's very popular,
and I fell into that trap too,
and you see it on the zeitgeist thing that's really popular,
is that you had all these gods, Mithra and Horus,
they were all born on December 25th, right?
No, there is no,
Egypt didn't have a December 25th, all right?
Horus was the second god born,
and that would have been before the,
right before the summer solstice.
That's when Horus was born.
Now, maybe Horus, Harper crazed the child,
but what they were doing in the later ADs was,
when we started out with all the sun gods being consolidated,
Rome was consolidating all these gods,
and they were all being born at the winter solstice.
So Rome was making these dates up.
These are late AD dates.
So the idea that Jesus was born December 25th,
being borrowed from some ancient Egyptian script
from 2000 BC or Mithra or this and that,
it didn't happen, all right?
So you need to stop believing people
with professional wrestling names like Acura S,
and real biblical names like
Gabriel Finkelstein or Paige Turner, okay?
So, Luther, I got, I have to ask Luther this here.
Do you see any political Roman angle here
now that he's mentioning that,
that can be explored in light of the politic thing
that you've been researching?
Because he's mentioning the winter equinox
as a Roman thing.
So now we can get this deeper and start going,
what else are we finding in the text of the New Testament,
and how can we look at it through the angle
of what the Romans would reinvent and place in there?
You know what I mean?
I think not just the New Testament,
but even the Old Testament,
look at the Genesis story that we're agreeing
seems to have been written later
than traditional scholarship would have described.
You look at the first seven days of creation.
They seem to start, at least by one scheme as I calculated,
from the winter solstice, from the very occasion
that the Romans made note of.
If you look at Capricorn and you count the seven signs
up to cancer, Leo being just beyond,
and line them up with the seven days of creation,
they seem to line up perfectly.
So yeah, even Genesis is influenced
in this general push to make syncretism easier,
to make it accessible.
Let's get all the gods together.
Let's do it in a way where across the empire,
people can grab hold of this thing,
which Rome needed to do and did.
So yeah, that makes perfect sense
that in order for this to go forward in the empire,
they've got to make it accessible to most of the people.
It's a daunting task, but they did a good job in doing it.
Okay, let's continue further with this idea, what happened.
So let's go back, Aristopolis, right?
Okay, wait a minute, which one?
The first, the one that got?
Okay, we didn't say anything about the first.
The one that got together with the Hebrew canon.
I was waiting for you to say something about him.
No, something I wanted to say was like in chronicles,
there's a tell there in chronicles,
where David has the census, right?
He's commanded to do a census.
In Kings, he's commanded to do that census by God.
In chronicles, it is Satan who commands him
to do that same sentence.
So the influence of Satan,
Satan came from the Zoroastrian religion.
So that is a post-Persian influence that they had.
So you can see the differences in the texts
after the, because the Persians were really big
in the demons and archangels and guardian angels,
which they called watchers, meteors were witches
and comments were known as mouse witches.
They had all these different names and stuff for him.
Planets were bad because they moved.
The stars were good.
That was God's creation.
They were steady.
They were in place or always there,
but the planets that zipped around, no,
that goes against God's creation.
And when they were in retrograde, it was really bad.
Right?
It was really good.
Okay.
You've got to answer me something, Michael.
This is important because let's go ahead
and set the record for those who want to know what they are.
If you can, what are the watchers?
And I want to follow that up with, I've had people,
I'm going to name them, Jim Fishburne, people like that.
They're online.
And they're like, you don't understand the Bible
if you don't understand the watchers.
And I don't know if it's something
that we are prone to do when we look at stuff
and we get lost in theology and certain studies and stuff.
And you already know, you can YouTube the watchers
and get lost.
What are the watchers from a critical state?
Yeah, yeah.
According to the Persians,
the watchers are simply guardian angels.
That's the, nothing special.
No, no, no aliens from outer space or anything.
You know, came down here, nothing much.
What about those theories?
Oh, I was going to say, what about them being the Nephilim
or are there's a connection to them being tied in
and these fallen angels are the watchers
and that in none of that?
I think that would have been pre-Zorastrian.
I mean, there may have been something in there
that was different, but later on,
the watchers simply became guardian angels.
They may not have been the same throughout history.
They may have evolved.
Oh, so the interesting thing about the Cuneiform texts,
the first Cuneiform texts were receipts,
work compensation receipts.
They're just so-and-so was paid.
There was records of workers being paid, right?
And they put them in boxes.
And it was a thousand years
before they learned to start writing in lines.
So if Cuneiform was invented by aliens,
they were really stupid aliens.
They were like morons from space.
So, just thought I'd throw that out there.
All you are, are false planet fans, okay?
Oh my gosh.
So anyway, we have Aristotleus II, bad guy.
Story is that 200 wealthy Jews went up to Pompey.
Pompey had just conquered Turkey
and he got all the land ceded to him
from the Turkish king.
So he was sitting up there in Damascus,
just enjoying himself, having a good time.
And these Jews come up and they said,
we have problems with Aristotleus and Hecarnius.
These guys are fighting.
Could you please help us out?
So he says, guys, come up, talk to me
because you don't want me to come down there.
So he looks at him and he decides
that Hecarnius is gonna be the High Priest
because he's kind of a weenie
and Aristotleus is very strong.
He doesn't want to deal with him at all.
So Hecarnius goes back, he's the High Priest
and Aristotleus doesn't like the decision.
So he goes off to another city, fortifies it,
build himself an army, thinks Pompey is gonna respect him.
It doesn't happen.
Pompey goes and babbles him and drags him
to the gates of Jerusalem.
So that is one of the things that is mentioned
in the Dead Sea Scrolls is that he was arrested
and tortured by Kittum.
Kittum meaning Rome.
So any body you want to have
to be these unknown characters
had to have fallen after Pompey, after Rome got involved.
So, and if you look at the Carver XIV dating,
the AD period is out.
So you have this small window
of what High Priest was arrested by Rome.
This is basically the only one you're gonna find.
I mean, as far as fitting that bill.
So yeah, he was arrested.
He sends him back to Rome.
Doesn't even put him in jail.
He goes back to Rome and he fights again
with Alexander who was Aristotleus' brother.
Then Aristotleus II, he comes back,
gets himself an army, fights again, Pompey again.
This time he sends him back in prison
and then he prisons him in Rome,
fights the son a second time
and then Pompey's enemies let Aristotleus out of prison.
So he'd go raise an army and fight him again
but he ends up getting assassinated before he gets there.
So very intriguing, very much going on.
So he's in there and a lot of things are going on
at this time, probably the most important thing
and let me, who do we got here?
Where are we at on the share?
So, Aristotleus got a little bit of Pompey action.
Okay.
He looks so younger.
Ah, Philo of Alexandria.
Hmm, Uncle Philo.
Uncle Philo, his whole family was rich.
He, they were in the import, export business.
His family was oversaw all the shipping in Alexandria.
He was appointed to that position.
His brother, I should say,
was appointed to that position by one of the Caesars.
I think maybe Julius Caesar to that position.
So he, they had money, power, influence.
And Philo was very well educated and he wrote quite a bit
and it was based a lot on the Greek narcissism
that they had at the time.
And it's kind of interesting.
He wrote about what was known the logos
which appears in the book of John
where he basically says the logos is known
as the word of God, the spirit is the breath of God.
These are concepts that he wrote about.
Then he also said that God would send his son down
to teach mankind, to be a teacher.
This is similar to what the righteous teacher was
who was a teacher of mankind.
He had already set this model up.
And he says, yes, he's gonna send his son down,
his son of God is gonna come down to heaven and teach us.
Now, this Christ figure had to go through a period
of reincarnation.
There was something called the octodoc or octoad,
A-O-G-D-A-O-D or something like that.
There's a set of eight octodocs.
There was a lot of seven, eight levels
that they had to reincarnate of.
And at that eight level, that top level,
you would become Christ.
You would become one with Christ.
And so it took a long time to get there.
This was part of the original Christianity.
You see this reflected in the gospel
where at one point they said, oh, who are you?
Are you Elijah?
It's like that was probably who they thought he originally was
and then ascended up to this Christ position
to be the son of God.
So, Milo was setting this whole thing up.
Also in Alexandria, there was the virgin
would give birth to one of the Aeon.
And the Aeon was what was abstract things that belong to God.
Some was the power of God, the wisdom of God,
and the word of God.
And he was born on January 5th, I believe,
was the date that they selected for his birth.
So again, we're tying it in with the winter solstice
period that he was being born.
So, Milo had set up that and the righteous teacher
between the two of them.
They're setting up the model for Jesus.
Now, Jesus, was he historical?
Was he not historical?
That's the big question.
And I am not going to answer that for you because I can't.
Neither can anybody else.
But it seems like there was the Bible is set up,
Catholic Church set up the Bible.
They put Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
They put Matthew first, even though all the scholars say
Mark was the oldest gospel because it was the shortest.
But there are other ones who say no, it was Matthew.
There was an original Matthew that may
have been written in Aramaic that was
used by the Evianites, doesn't have the virgin birth,
doesn't have the resurrection, very similar to Mark.
And it ended up getting destroyed.
And then another Matthew was written, a newer Matthew.
And that's the one that's in there right now.
And there are certain texts that look better written
in Aramaic that may have been mistranslations.
There's idioms that were used by the Jews in Aramaic
that were not understood and translated word for word
in Greek.
There are other things.
The one I like is, I think Ian Wilson
mentions this in his book, Jesus, the Evidence,
that phrase of the camel going through the eye of the needle.
Easier for a camel to go through an eye of a needle
than it is for a rich man to go into heaven.
So what they come up with is all these different explanations
of what the camel going through the eye of the needle
actually means.
Oh yeah, this is nighttime.
Gates are closed.
He had to go down on his knees and crawl underneath.
And it's that young, I go, nah, I doubt that.
They probably just wait for dates and times
they had to go through all that.
It doesn't make any sense.
And what he says with the word camel and the word rope
are nearly identical.
There's just a little tittle difference between the two.
And he suggests that this was originally Aramaic,
and the word was a rope going through the eye of a needle,
which makes sense.
You try to get a rope through the eye of a needle.
And he said that's evidence that the Aramaic was probably
the original language, and this was a mistranslation
into the Greek because he missed the word.
I'm going to keep it real with you, though.
Don't you agree, though, that maybe I wouldn't say
that the whole thing was Aramaic,
but that maybe there were common phrases in that time,
that maybe this is a phrase that may have been an Aramaic one
that they were trying to put in.
And obviously the author, in my opinion,
maybe being Greek mistakenly places this statement here.
And has a mistake of trying to utilize something Jewish,
or possibly Aramaic in nature,
over into a Greek manuscript.
And this is where a mistake like this would happen.
I guess it's speculation,
because technically we don't have originals to say,
well, the original actually says this,
whereas I think that maybe it's a common Aramaic phrase
that, hey, you can't fit the rope through the eye of a needle.
You know, that sounds almost like something we would say
commonly in American language.
And then if it goes down into someone who speaks Spanish
in Spain, they might slip up and phrase it
into something else, I don't know.
What do you think?
Yeah, that's just one.
There's a number of these that are better in Aramaic
than they are in the Greek.
And we're just saying the one book, Matthew,
was originally this Aramaic book that was lost.
It was used by the Ebonites.
Okay, okay.
Yeah, and they had a big discussion
with another priest in their day over the virgin birth,
and they denied that there was a virgin birth.
So obviously their texts did not have it.
They also point to when Jesus was baptized in their texts,
and they say in the original Matthew,
the voice came down from heaven saying,
this is my son and who I'm proud.
And then the phrase goes, this day I have begotten thee.
And I think that came from the Old Testament too.
Yes, it came from the Psalms.
Yeah, that was mostly been in the original Bible texts.
And when the church did the whole virgin birth thing,
they had to go through and destroy all the texts
that had that in it.
Well, in order to keep their virgin birth narrative,
and that's how all these texts ended up getting destroyed.
Right, they can't have their everlasting
divine finitarian understanding with that.
No, and Michael, I agree that it's possible.
Me and Luke have talked about Matthew before,
and that's actually what I was saying.
I wasn't suggesting Mark, Luke, of course,
Luke goes way beyond anything that would be Aramaic
and anything that would be truly Hebrew.
When you look at Matthew, yeah,
I think that it's the most Hebrew.
However, it's still speculation.
I mean, unless we found a proto version of Matthew,
in my opinion, it's like, what if this was
someone who's trying to write to a Jewish audience
using phrases that may have been Aramaic and common
and incorporated in the Greek?
No, it could be just as easily said,
hey, there was a guy who translated it
from Aramaic into Greek, and these are the mistakes.
Or it could be that someone who was trying to convert
a Aramaic language or Aramaic phrases,
putting them into a book for Hebrew people
made these mistakes into the Greek, either way.
And Derek, we looked at this before in relation to Matthew,
reasoning that if Matthew was originally in the Hebrew,
then a lot of the anti-Jewish references
would not be present, and yet they are.
If we look at the Hebraic Matthew,
which actually came forth in the 9th century by apologists
who were eager to find a manuscript of Matthew
that was in Hebrew, but it contains the same
anti-Jewish material that the pro-Romans
wanna ascribe to it, well, there it is.
And it's written in Hebrew too.
That doesn't make much sense.
And this problem of taking a text that's in Greek
and resolving it back into Hebrew or Aramaic
in order to eliminate the problems in it
is something that we find on both sides of the millennium.
They did the same thing with the testimony
of the 12 Patriarchs.
The testimony of Levi was supposedly originally written
in Hebrew, even though we have the Greek,
we no longer have the Hebrew.
Well, how do scholars know that?
Well, they figure out that must be the case
because there are too many problems in the Greek
and when you retranslate it into Hebrew, they disappear.
So, again, it's not just the languages it's written in,
but the elements in it, do they make sense culturally?
Do they make sense politically
in order for it to be written in that language?
So I think that's something we have to take into consideration.
And all the things of what the target audience is
and what they're trying to do.
And there are many Jews who loved Rome.
I mean, that was the bread and butter.
Rome put the high priest in power, he made him what he did.
And there were Jews who hated the Jews who loved the Romans.
I mean, they're all different sects who hated it.
So if you want to say there were Jews
who were very pro-Roman, who could have been writing
pro-Roman stuff and some things that are anti-Jewish.
Like we said before from the gymnasium
and how they hated circumcision and certain things
and food rights that they tended to ignore,
which brings us up to 66 AD.
When we had the great Jewish war,
times were right is what we were told.
Everything just kind of fell into place.
What scholars don't mention is that there was a comet
that year, Haley's comet appeared.
And that would have been seen as a sign.
So I was like, okay, now they all go into this berserker mode.
There's three people out there
who claim to be the Messiah, right?
They had three different sects following
these three different guys and they're all trying
to battle against the Roman Empire, fight the Romans.
However, when they can't find a Roman to fight,
they're fighting against pro-Roman Jews
or any rich Jew or anybody in power.
They were killing them.
So finally, these three groups
who represent the three different Messiahs,
they get stuck in Jerusalem.
They're in a siege in Jerusalem.
While they're there waiting to get attacked,
they go after the other one's food supply.
So this other group, so the other sect would die of starvation
even though they have a common enemy in Rome,
they're fighting among themselves,
waiting for Rome to attack.
Now when Rome finally does attack,
they get together and go after the Romans.
But meanwhile, they're just fighting against each other.
And it reminds me of a scene out of like
money, pythons, life of Brian,
when you have the people's group of Judea
and the Judean people's front,
they're both gonna kidnap Pila's wife and hold her for ransom
and they come together.
I guess they're using like the aqueduct or a sewage system
and they're back underneath there and they're there
and they meet and they're up there in the palace now,
Pila's palace and the Romans guard is standing in there,
standing around them and they're arguing amongst themselves.
And then they start fighting, killing each other.
And the Romans just kind of like sitting back,
like scratching their heads like,
you know, they don't have to leave it.
And that's what I'm seeing what's happening in Jerusalem.
It's like my God, you know,
the guys are killing each other when they're coming in
because yeah, you believe in a different Messiah.
They believe this guy's a Messiah.
No, no, no, this guy's the Messiah.
And it's like, you know, what is happening here?
So one of the guys.
Geez.
So let's go here.
Oh, this is funny.
There we go.
We said he was, I was a...
That's Vespasian, that's it.
No, that's the, that's his father, Vespasian.
Vespasian.
And then Titus took over on the siege.
His second in command was right here,
Julius Alexander, or Tiberius Julius Alexander,
who was the nephew of Phylo of Alexander.
His dad was imprisoned by Caligula and Quartius.
And I'm out, they were very, they financed the war.
He was their second in command.
And he was overlooking his investment
as they took the siege of Jerusalem.
So here we have a prominent Jew paying for the war
against the Jews.
Right.
So if you want to look at, you know,
just because the New Testament has pro-Roman anti-Jew stuff
in it, it's hard to say that it was written
not by Jews.
I was reading the other day that even when Sargon was marching,
back around 2300 BC, he had merchants marching with him.
And they were paying for his campaign.
They're saying, go further, go further.
And they wanted to establish merchants,
dealers in these different cities that Sargon went into.
So even back then you had bankers or merchants paying for wars.
So I just think it's interesting how that worked.
You know, when everyone looks at all these different,
you know, who's in charge?
Who owns the money?
Who has the purse?
There's always merchants and merchants who had it.
And talk about a conflict of interest.
Tiberius Julius Alexander was procurator of Judea
from 44 to 46 AD.
And under him, two sons of Judas the Galilean were crucified.
So you have this guy who was procurator of Judea,
financing the war against Judea, at least the rebels.
And then at Titus' side, of course he had renounced Judaism.
But yeah, and Gal, it was a sore spot.
They weren't very religious Jews there.
They kind of ignored the dietary laws.
They talked funny.
They talked a little different than the proper speaking Jews.
When they go to Jerusalem, they would make fun of them
of how they talked.
And we see that in the Bible.
And then when they said to Peter,
oh, you must be one of them because your voice of the sound
or your voice gives you away.
Gives you away, yes.
Yeah, they knew they were different.
That was the Galilean.
And they were rebels.
I mean, some say Judas Iscariot was probably
one of these Galilean assassins.
There was five generations of families.
A family from Galilee who led insurrections
against the Roman Empire.
Going all the way up to Barcafa
and then starting back in the BC period,
including the tax revolt that's mentioned in Luke.
And he coincides the 7 AD tax revolt
with the birth of Jesus.
Right.
Right.
Which would have been in 7 AD.
And then he talks about Jesus' ministry,
which he says he was about 30.
And technically he would have been about 23
if he looked at Luke from a historical perspective.
So yeah, was Jesus real?
Was he not?
Who knows?
He could have been a real teacher
and they kind of built this up around him.
That would be the only other explanation.
I mean, he doesn't fit.
I mean, to me, he doesn't fit any sect.
He purposely rise against the Sadducees and the Pharisees.
Well, where does that play some other
than possibly a fourth philosophy or somewhere else?
And then if he does fit into some rebel type group,
where does he actually appear that way?
Well, the only thing I could think of
is the crucifixion of the Romans crucifying him.
Makes sense if he was a rebel leader.
However, he looks like, he doesn't look like a rebel leader
and he denies, there's too much mythology mixed in there.
It's tough to say, not saying he didn't exist,
just saying that person in the gospels
didn't exist.
So whatever really existed,
there may be fragments in the gospels,
but how do you know that that's actually him?
Could this, you know what I mean?
And Derek, to piggyback on that and Michael,
I'm developing for my book a timeline
of Roman conquest of Judea.
It actually goes before that.
It'll start around the Battle of Actium in 31 BC,
coming on up past 70 AD.
And it's kind of a Christianity timeline,
but it's Christianity-like,
because there's no Jesus in it.
And it makes perfect sense without the Jesus figure.
Everything fits together.
You're gonna have a timeline totally
about Christianity without Christ.
And it's interesting, so you say,
is it necessary to have this figure of Jesus
in order to make everything make sense?
I mean, for example, you have Vitaeus,
who was the father of the emperor, Vitaeus.
He was the governor of Syria,
and Pontius Pilate's boss under,
who was it?
Not Augustus, the next one, Tiberius, under Tiberius.
So if there's anybody who should have written about Jesus
and this guy had a ton of correspondence,
it would be him.
He's a Roman official.
He didn't disappear into obscurity
the way Pontius Pilate did.
His son later became emperor.
If there's anybody in history
who should have written about Jesus,
it would be Lucius Vitaeus.
Nothing.
Why not?
And you have instances like that all throughout the timeline.
He wasn't that important, Luther.
Oh, I'm sorry.
That's right.
That's the part, that's the part, Airman.
That's the historical, the historians will tell ya.
He wasn't that important.
He became important,
but he wasn't during that time.
Therefore, there was no need to mention him.
But they're definitely gonna mention people like,
you know, Judas the Galilean, or Judah the Galilean,
and other phenomenally well-spoken people.
But none of these guys had myths around them.
And I wonder why?
Cause if this Jesus guy really died,
it was really killed, just like Judah was really killed.
And Judah did all these probably greater things
in the eyes of a Jew, than Jesus really did,
in terms of actually physically trying to get stuff done
for the nation of Israel.
No myth surrounded Judah, the Galilean, the way Jesus.
And if there was, it's been extinguished.
So what the heck?
There's too many, and it's all speculation,
what I'm saying, but I also say the same of them.
They're specul, oh, he wasn't that important.
How do you know he wasn't that important?
How do you know he existed?
Well, because there's a, a hundred years later,
there's something to say.
Let me throw a wrench in here.
Paul wrote before the, the,
our current gospels were written, right?
Paul was writing, and one of the characters
that Paul mentions, and that everybody else seems
to mention in the writings is James the brother of Jesus.
So if you're gonna get rid of Jesus as a mythical character,
you're gonna have to get rid of the guy
who was known as his brother too.
Jay, it's actually James the brother of the Lord.
Right.
And that is a very important distinction.
It is.
Because if he's speaking of him as Lord,
is he speaking of him as an earthly guy sitting
on a throne, or is he divinely attributing
or angelically attributing that this Christlike figure
is an angel of the Lord.
Therefore, he may be saying,
James is just another fellow brother.
Now I've heard both arguments.
I'm still split, but either way,
whether that's correct or not,
we can't, it's ambiguous enough,
not to determine and say, as a matter of fact.
And then we can go to Josephus.
Well, Derek, your point is well argued and proven
to be wrong in Josephus.
But is that James, James the brother of Jesus,
the son of, is it Damneus, if I'm not mistaken?
Luther in Josephus's quote on James.
I believe it is, because that could be a different family.
It could be a different.
In Josephus, yes.
So it's complicated.
At the end of the day, I don't think we have sufficient
evidence to say, like Bart Ehrman says,
and I'm not saying there wasn't a Jesus, by the way.
I'm saying the way he says it, Bart Ehrman says,
it is a matter of fact, historical fact,
that Jesus did exist.
Now we got to say, who was he?
Oh, well, he was this rabbi teacher who really
didn't get crucified at Apostles Valley.
Well, for what?
And so we need to get more on him
and find out more about this guy
if he really did exist.
I know that he may have.
Let me throw two things at you.
One was Jesus, there was a story that Jesus
actually did lead a revolt against Pontius Pilate
when they did the whole thing with the aqueduct
where they raided the temple to fulfill the aqueduct.
And that is mentioned in, I think it was in Luke,
and it's also mentioned in Josephus.
And that's when they all got together.
And that was right before the crucifixion happened,
right before Jesus was taken and crucified.
That's Jesus?
And there was one theory that he was actually the leader
of the uprising against Pontius Pilate.
He was arrested and crucified over the aqueduct building.
Another thing I'll throw at you is-
I've never heard that either.
The other thing I want to toss at you is
Israel Finkelstein, which is actually his real name
and not one that was made up.
How do we know that, Michael?
I don't know, but I tell you what.
You're gonna have to establish that.
I tell you why.
He must have got shoved in lockers at his launch point
to take it away from him.
It's an interesting name, interesting name.
It's probably a guy's name, Point Dexter.
I was taking away his launch money.
Yeah, but anyway.
His idea was on David.
David was a, you know, we'd hit David in the Bible
with this big, huge kingdom.
And he says, no, David was this bandit who came around
and he defeated a few people and he came in
and he settled in Israel and defended Israel.
And the actual whole city was only like a few acres
that he was his entire empire.
And then they kind of build this mystique around him.
And that's how you ended up getting all these things
about David.
So, you know, it's something similar maybe happened
to Jesus.
They built a mystique around somebody
who really did little than nothing.
Well, here's the problem.
And I'm not saying that this couldn't be the case
in all of this.
I'm very open-minded.
I just know, I'll put it like this.
We all agree that the hocus pocus is not true.
Okay, that if it's saying something,
it might be esoteric, it might be celestial,
it might be something allegory.
And if they're trying to claim it's literal,
personally, I don't buy it.
Okay, it's just not gonna buy it if that is the case.
But I wanna say with Luther talking about these guys,
especially if the boss of Pontius Pilate is aware
that this guy's trying to uprise against this guy
that he works for, or works for him.
Why didn't he mention this rebel
that obviously had to be important enough
to try and at least talk about him?
And don't you think early church fathers
would have maybe mishandled this information
and at least quoted, oh, by the way,
you know, these liars of our Lord, you know,
and savior or whatever, just to prove a point
to maybe some of these Gnostics that said
he didn't actually physically exist.
He was phantom or possibly trying to bring up
this guy back in the first century at that time.
If he was doing it, now I'm not saying,
I gotta look at this theory, I've never heard of it,
but I like to speculate and think, you know,
both sides of the fence, I just don't think
there's sufficient evidence to say, as a matter of fact,
the way that Bart Ehrman does with definitive answer,
he absolutely existed, he is absolutely historical man.
And one of his arguments is nobody has this much material
written on them and did not exist.
And, you know, goes into the first century,
how much material is written about this guy, blah, blah, blah.
Could you write it?
William Tell did exist.
Do what?
William Tell didn't exist.
William Tell, Derek.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And he'll show you the building where William Tell lived.
They'll show you the tree where he shot the apple
off his kid's head, and they'll sell you a souvenir,
but the guy never lived.
Right.
This guy, Jesus could have lived, Michael,
that's the thing, I'm not denying it.
He's just not what I'm seeing.
And if he is what you're saying,
he's this small little smidge somehow
in the grand scheme of the story that's mythology.
And it's like, oh, by the way,
really this guy was fucking around
with this guy, Pontius Pilate,
and they had to take him out.
How do we know with that,
and then you got the whole grand scheme
of all these other things he did supposedly,
but none of that actually happened.
But he was a rebel leader against Pontius Pilate.
It's like, where did all this other meat
on the bone come from?
Well, Derek, I don't like that trade-off.
It's worse for him to be that kind
of an insignificant minuscule character
than for him to never have existed.
And what use is he if he's that insignificant?
I mean, it's like saying, that's a hollow victory.
You want to say, oh yeah, we know he existed.
Suppose you prove that bottom line,
and then you find out he's this nobody.
Who wins that?
What kind of victory is that for the faith?
Nothing.
Jesus is a natural evolution from the Greek Gnosticism
from coming out.
He is a product of Alexandria,
all of the stuff and wisdom that he has.
Ah, okay, let's talk Alexandria.
Sure, sure, and I agree with that.
He's part of this natural evolution that came about.
So was there a man who kind of fit the bill
that they assigned this natural evolution to?
Or did he get out?
Occam's razor, we don't need him.
If he didn't exist, they would have made him up.
Right, and that's where I think
there's other factors we weigh in, theological factors.
I mean, like the 70 years,
I got to get Mike Lawrence on the show sometime too.
He's talked about a 70-year theory,
but I just did a show with James Steven Valiant,
and he talked about the reason,
and he doesn't, he's actually more of a historicist
than he has been since.
He actually thinks there may have been
an actual rebel guy named Jesus,
but they whitewashed and mythologized him so much
that he became a pundit for Rome, so to speak.
And nonetheless, he makes this point
that the Jews couldn't, you know,
just like the First Temple of Destruction,
hey, how do we explain this?
And Deir Emane and them are explaining why.
Well, we sinned, and it's Israel's fault.
The same thing happens in the New Testament.
Blame Israel, blame Israel, blame Israel.
Temple destruction happens all of a sudden.
Jesus keeps worrying about it.
Well, what the Mike Lawrence and them are saying,
and including James Valiant here,
that made me think more reason to make this guy up
is now they need an explanation
for why the temple did get destroyed.
Now, one or two things happen.
They either look back, Jews who wrote this,
and said, look, this guy, Jesus,
we missed out on him in the 30s.
He was the guy, that was him.
So now we need to back date
and pretend this historical guy somehow was the Messiah,
which is why in 70 AD Rome kicked our butts.
And we sinned, because we didn't follow this guy back here
who claimed to be a Messiah.
Right.
We invent a theory of a Uncle Sam
that we messed up and didn't follow back here,
and somehow have this guy be the reason why 70 AD happened.
It just, to me, it's like either way, in the end,
it doesn't matter.
It's just an interesting idea that makes me think,
there's too many things that make me think,
why did they go back 70 years?
Exactly, I mean, why are they going back
and having a 40 year exact generation
like they did with Moses?
Why is it so theological
that the temple's destruction,
and you had to just go back 40 years
and you're right there with Pontius Pilate
and these guys and the timing to have this stuff happen.
Theologically, it makes too much sense to me,
rather than historically, and I'm speculating.
Well, Pontius Pilate disappeared from the scene.
Nobody knows what happened to him.
After he went back to Rome,
he was recalled under Lucius Vitelius in 36 or 37 AD.
So he's just the guy you need
under whose crucifixion Jesus had to happen,
Jesus's crucifixion,
because nobody knows what happened to Pontius.
He's the perfect figure for him to be crucified under.
You look in history and say,
well, who are we gonna pick there?
Oh yeah, this guy, pin it on him, we can't find him.
Someone might think we're conspiracy nuts
because they're like, why would they go through
all that work to create this guy
and to do all that?
I think it's hard enough to believe
that the story is telling us factual evidence
of this historical guy, Jesus,
by just looking at the evidence we do have,
it's like, dude, how do you make sense of this?
And there's so many theories.
So why did the Jews just stone him
if he actually was committing blasphemy?
I mean, that would have been Torah,
that would have been the right time
to go ahead and get rid of this guy instead.
You take him to Pontius Pilate,
Pontius Pilate, the hered, the hered, the Pontius Pilate,
and there's so many copies of the Old Testament here,
the scapegoat having Jesus, Parabas, Jesus, here you,
I mean, there's too much theology, it's like.
I mean, if you just look at the old, the last supper,
where he's doing this Dionysus rite,
where he's doing the body and blood of Christ,
that is pure Greek, that's coming from your Gnostic Greeks.
So everything is coming out of Alexandria
for him to do this.
So that's where the story seemed to have originated.
Now, let me throw some wrenches in the works here.
Josephus writes about three other Jesuses
who were messiahs in his work.
And the book of Revelation that Jesus mentioned in there
is not the Jesus of the Bible.
That book of Revelation was written by Messianic Jews.
And that is a different Jesus
who is coming to conquer Rome.
So they had a whole idea of a messiah being named Jesus.
Also, Jesus being the Greek version of Joshua,
Joshua who was Pisces in the Old Testament.
And this being going into the age of Pisces,
we have the two fish that the Christians used
as their symbol, which was the symbol of Pisces.
And if you go look at the oldest,
I wanna say church, but prayer place that they had in Megiddo,
you can just Google that up.
And the Google mosaic, Megiddo,
and it shows this nice little floor
with Pisces right in the middle of it.
I mean, it's-
Right.
Michael, you bring up a good point.
And I mean, we can go into how that affects possible
who or what, I'll even say, not who,
but what Jesus even is.
Is it a guy who's gonna come under this symbol somehow?
Could it be that this is something angelic?
And I only say that to say, when I look at it,
like I've been saying it theologically,
I wanted to ask you a question in this.
When do you date the story of Joseph
from Genesis 38 to 50?
When do you think that was written?
I mean, you probably don't have a definitive date,
but like approximately, do you have an idea?
And the reason I wanna say that before you answer is,
I've been noticing theological comparisons
between the sacrament or the Eucharist
or the, let's just say it, Lord supper, whatever,
last supper, where Jesus is telling his disciples,
break this, this is my body, drink this, this is my blood,
and do this in remembrance of me,
which is Dionysus, okay?
Or a Dionysus, Alexandria mystery school type of practice.
However, I found the same ritual theologically
in the story of Joseph,
when he goes into the dungeon in Egypt,
the two men have the dreams.
One's a baker, one's a wine bearer.
Both of them in three days, well, I have three baskets
or I have three, you know, whatever,
the wine bearer has three great clusters,
whatever the story tells.
In three days, he said, you're gonna be resurrected
and killed to the baker, and you're gonna be resurrected
and you're gonna be granted back its status with Pharaoh,
which technically would be God, so to speak in this.
And one of them is resurrected to damnation,
just like Jesus talks about the New Testament.
The other is resurrected to eternal life, so to speak,
according to the New Testament kind of idea.
However, as soon as this wine bearer goes to leave,
he says, don't forget me, remember me,
just like Jesus tells his disciples,
do this in remembrance of me.
And now I love this because what you say about this
Dionysus and mystery school concept
that comes from other pagan sources that kind of creep in,
what about that being here in this story?
Do you still think that has a Dionysus idea
with the wine and the baker in the Joseph story
and then going up to Pharaoh, or is it Egyptian?
What do you think?
I never really thought of it in those terms
till you just mentioned it.
But I think I had that initially was cut
from the initial one and was placed in later.
So yeah, that would have been written
probably two to 300 BC, maybe, somewhere in that era.
I mean, it was time for them to have all types of influences
from both the Egyptians and the Greeks
to have made that story.
I don't, you know.
I've been looking at that kind of stuff,
like even Judas, you mentioned Judas Iscariot
and you're like, well, you might've been a rebel leader.
Here's why I ask the questions I do, Michael.
And you can disagree or even just say,
hey, I haven't thought about it that way and that's good
because I am looking at it with those fresh lenses
in a way, right?
I looked at the narrative in Genesis 38
and I saw that the very brother that betrayed Joseph's name
was Judah.
He was the first guy that betrayed him.
Now, all the others were on board, so to speak.
One of them wasn't quite according to the narrative.
The first brother who was, the plan was
to get rid of Joseph was Judah in the narrative
in Genesis 38.
The brother who betrayed Jesus, Judas, the Galilean,
it's just Hellenized.
It's more Hellenized and so it's not Judah, it's Judas.
And it's this copy, all it is to me.
And this is why I'm thinking that this is
mythicism to some degree and at least minimal historicism,
but I'm on the side of these guys are rewrites
and possibly you need to show me, I need more bone.
I need bone, I need something I can knock on better than,
well, Judas seems like a rebel leaders that were around
as he was an Ascariot, an Ascariot is a Sicarian,
Sicariot were people that were there.
There may have been, it's just this guy, Judas,
fits the narrative perfect to Joseph
and everything else starts to fall in line too.
The betrayal for the silver, we know that's a copy
from them selling off Joseph and getting their money
for selling off Joseph and take the coat of many colors
to their father, all that kind of stuff.
There's a rewrite of the story
and I have a hard time buying what's history,
what's theology, of course that's where they wrote.
So it's hard to find the bone, but that's where I'm at.
So Derek and Michael, but if you take it back
to the story of Joseph and his brothers
and you take the names of the 12 Patriars
and then you look at a list of them
as they are written in Greek, those specific names
that you find in Revelation with a slight modification.
The numerical value of those together is 8, 8, 8, 0,
which is the reflection of the sun.
It is taken from the solar deity based upon
the Amphalos cube as the name Jesus is.
So how could the numerical value of Jesus be 888?
And the numerical value of the additive names
of all of the 12 tribes of Israel be 8, 8, 8, 0.
How are those names selected?
Were they even real people
in order for them to have that result?
I mean, it's almost as if, yeah,
I'd like to pick you as a patriarch of the tribe,
but your name doesn't quite add up,
so I have to disqualify you.
Does that make any sense?
Find somebody with the right numerical value
and bring them in.
I mean, all of that has to be taken into consideration.
So where does it fit in?
So you go back to Joseph and even that
has some mythical characteristics
that we can't seem to pin down in history.
Do you guys know if there's other manuscripts
with different names though?
That would be another good example of showing,
hey, maybe they didn't all have the same names
or the same numerical value calculating gematria wise.
So these are ways to be critical of our own views.
And I really am trying to be critical of my view,
but see when it's like the underdogs,
when Conor McGregor went to go fight
in this recent boxing match, he's the underdog.
Bottom line is he was gonna probably get his ass warped.
99% chance he wasn't gonna win that match.
I mean, you're going against Floyd, Money, Mayweather.
This is a guy who was born to dance in the ring
and just gets you and miss everything you throw at him.
However, I rooted for him
in light of the fact that he had confidence.
He went in like a lion.
He said, I don't care, I'm going, I'm gonna take you down.
He loses.
He wins out and he loses in the 11th round.
Probably could have ended sooner.
Floyd was probably thinking Money.
Floyd was thinking, eh, let's make sure this drags out
because the millions I'm putting into this
and getting out of this,
I gotta make this thing look like it's worth a show.
I say that to say historicism is the winner right now
in terms of the majority.
Everyone assumes this guy exists.
I see these mythos come in with their arguments.
They're not understood.
They're ridiculed and mocked.
You're just a total fringe, absolute conspiracy theorist.
You aren't really looking at the sources.
You're not really checking the stuff out.
And at the end of the day,
I listened to Dr. Bob a lot on this stuff
and I think this is important.
Dr. Bob says there could have been there.
That doesn't sound like a nutcase to me
or a conspiracy theorist.
A conspiracy theorist tells me the earth is flat.
You can't get near the 200 foot ice wall.
The government keeps you from being able to send up something
to see so you can't tell that the earth is flat.
I mean like that to me is like no matter what
it has to be this way.
Dr. Bob says there could have been a Jesus,
but if there was, what do we really know about him for sure?
And how can we know anything about him?
That to me is a very skeptical and a reasonable approach.
And as I started to approach it, I thought to myself,
the best damn evidence I could think of
if there was a guy named Jesus
is that he was exactly what you said, Mike.
He was a rebel leader.
He could have revolted against Pontius Pilate.
He could have revolted against Rome in some way,
but the guy wouldn't have been crucified.
In my opinion, from what I've been hearing other scholars say,
the ones that are skeptical, not the Jesus believers,
this guy wouldn't have been crucified
unless he was a problem for Rome.
Now one could say the purse of the Jews came out and said,
hey, you guys handle this guy, that's possible too,
but we don't have any evidence, it's speculation.
I am just saying it's important
that if we weigh the theology of it
and we see the rewrite of the Old Testament,
we see the parallels and we see this stuff,
at what point have we chewed away the meat and said,
all right, here's the bone, this guy was this.
Bart Ehrman says he was a rabbi, that's the bone.
Bart Ehrman says, if there's anything we can know about Jesus,
he was absolutely crucified.
That we can know, he said, why?
As Paul says, Jesus was crucified and he resurrected
and if the resurrection's not true,
our whole faith has fallen apart.
How do we know Paul's crucifixion resurrection concepts
aren't celestial?
How do we know he's not a mystery school,
gnostic type guy who's saying celestial,
some solstice idea that Jesus being the sun dies, rises again?
How come he had to be a Jewish guy?
And I'm just asking the question,
I'm not saying that's the case.
How is it that all of Paul's epistles are not forgeries?
We don't even know if, I mean,
there's only like a handful of the epistles that he wrote
that are considered to be actual Pauline
and the rest are considered to be forgeries.
So you have to figure out, you know,
you just have to look at the ones that Paul actually wrote
if there was a Paul, and that's some,
and if there were original epistles
because the term forgery necessitates
there being a real somewhere, which we don't know.
You can't definitively know that.
I mean, you were talking about the other day Luther
and that's what was interesting.
I even mentioned that to Dr. Bob.
We got to do a show on that and give him an explain.
I love that.
What if Paul's a surname?
I mean, what if Jesus is a title?
What if it's not an actual guy, so to speak, but a title?
I'm not saying there aren't Jesuses that were people.
Josephus talks about them.
But why is it that Matthew, the way that Matthew describes
this guy that is Jesus, the guy, the person,
is that he was gonna be born of a virgin,
or at least not in this case,
being born of a virgin to Matthew,
but nonetheless he's gonna be born, right?
And the angel says, you shall call his name Jesus.
And that's it?
No.
For he shall save his people from their sins.
The reason his name is Jesus
is that he's gonna save his people from their sins.
That sounds very, very theological.
That sounds to me, you're saying the...
It is the Bible, you know.
I know, I'm just pointing it out like...
And I have to emphasize that, man,
because if he's just a guy,
like all the scholars keep throwing around this,
oh, Jesus, Jesus, why is he titled
the very thing he's supposed to do?
In essence, it's like the angels giving us another,
like an Old Testament story myth, you know?
He's gonna be the savior of his people.
This is why we're naming him Jesus.
Someone could say, well, I mean, there were many Jesuses
and they just picked that guy
because his name was Jesus
and then they threw this story right there.
Yeah, it was a common name.
It was a very common name.
It sure was.
Three out of eight high priests
from the beginning of the millennium to...
Well, actually before the beginning of the millennium,
I forget what the starting point is,
but going to 70 AD, three of eight of them were named Jesus.
What does that say to you?
It says to you that whoever Jesus was,
he was meant to be a common man,
a sort of every man,
because I mean, you didn't name him Aristophanes.
I mean, you named him Jesus.
Very, you know, what does that say?
Name him John.
I actually would love to get a historicist of it.
It has patients with someone who's skeptical like me
and I say that because you're into the celestial stuff,
but I think this is a fascinating question.
Myth visions wrapped around and...
Well, Matthew is the most astrological gospel of the four.
So it's almost like it was written taken
from the Greek version of the constellations.
And when you mentioned Joseph,
the same star, Arcturus, which was the coat of many colors,
it's actually a garnet star.
And that was the robe that Jesus wrote war
when he was being mocked.
All right, so there's a correlation between two.
Judah, the story of Judah is the northern crown, right?
Judah and Tamar was the northern crown,
and that was the crown of thorns that Jesus wore.
So there was, astrologically,
that's where the two were connected.
I love this stuff, man.
Awesome, awesome, awesome.
Okay, at the end of Mark, at the end of Mark,
this Simon of Cyrene, who supposedly bore the cross,
according to some laws, he was crucified instead of Jesus,
but that's not where I'm going.
He had two sons.
Yeah, that's a Muslim story, yeah.
Exactly, but he had two sons.
One was named Alexander,
and the other was named Rufus, interesting.
In the time of Claudius, exactly at the time
that the Jesus story was coming into popularity,
there was Cluvius Rufus,
who worked in the administration of Claudius,
and you had Tiberius Alexander,
who was procurator of Judea from 44 to 46.
And they are the sons of this guy from Cyrene.
Now, this is all in the Gospel of Mark.
Why Simon of Cyrene?
Well, I don't know who Simon was,
but Jason of Cyrene was quite an important title
at the time because Second Maccabees,
which was the manual on Jewish rebellion,
was written by Jason of Cyrene.
So you invent a character called Simon of Cyrene
to say, well, this is the anti-Rebel manual.
Mark is gonna be the anti-Rebel.
We know that instead of Jason of Cyrene,
we gotta have an opposite kind of character
responsible for Mark.
We're putting him in there.
I mean, it's just so much that's yet unaccounted for.
I can't explain it.
But I'm gonna keep trying.
Anyone just make the folks of Cyrene look good,
you know, being helpful people.
You know, come live in our city of Cyrene, you know?
Lovely people here.
We'll help you.
We'll carry your cross for you.
Wow.
That's gracious.
That's interesting though.
And that appears in Mark.
Yeah, that detail is only in Mark.
Interesting.
Hey guys, as the hour draws later and later,
man, I have never been party to a show like this
where we had so much free flowing
and it was kind of like a tripod.
You know, we were like bouncing off each other here.
And you got to start it, Michael,
and took us really through almost the history of Judaism.
Okay, throughout all the conquests, which was wonderful.
When is your book scheduled to be published?
When is this gonna be ready?
You know, I haven't started writing it.
And I think I'm gonna start with the outline,
probably the beginning of the year.
When I just discovered, see, I was at the,
I had the writer's block.
I didn't know how to figure out
how this Old Testament worked when it was written,
but I knew it was written later than what I had.
But now that I discovered Nebedias,
it's like, hmm, okay, that fits it.
That was the missing piece.
So now that I have the missing piece of the puzzle,
I can start putting it together.
So I need to start getting an outline,
go on a detailed outline.
And the outline's gonna be similar
to what we just talked about tonight.
So if you watch the night show,
you probably don't have to get the book.
No, still get the book.
There's always detail.
Except I'm gonna include all the good juicy meat
astrological parts from this book in there.
It's just a profiler.
Yeah, I'm a full-time...
Oh, go ahead, listen.
No, no, no, I want that book.
But unfortunately, I got the Kindle version
and it doesn't do it justice, Mike.
I have the other book by you,
but I gotta get that one on earth as it is in heaven.
Well, we...
Hard copy.
When we get closer to that time,
as you're writing your book,
I'd like to have another show where we really delve
into some of the fresh ideas
that you're currently writing as you go.
This way we can keep our...
I end up changing stuff as I start writing.
As I write, I also research and it's like,
oh, okay.
Pull the scab off, it's okay.
It'll heal.
Yeah, ouch, ouch.
Michael, how can our viewers contact you,
find out more about you,
contribute to your research,
help support you, whatever.
How can they do that?
Well, I do a lot on eBay,
so I'm generally at the Windsor Post Office
around 11 o'clock in the morning.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But, oh yeah, if you don't wanna make the trip,
hey, you know, you can just,
we can talk right under the chat right here on YouTube
if you want, because I go back and I'm an egomaniac,
I'm a real narcissist.
And, you know, I look and see if anybody wrote anything
and I also have my email address
we put in the first form,
which is mikeledo at aol.com.
And I apologize for having an AOL email address,
but in 1998, when I went to get,
you had to have an ISP and AOL was the only one
that was toll free where I live.
I was given a boonie, so I had AOL or nothing.
Say it again, Mike.
What's that, what's that email?
Mikeledo, M-I-K-E-L-E-D-O at aol.com.
Or you can do, well, no, I say I got another one,
but I never looked at it, so yeah.
Oh God, no masters is my other one.
We were lucky, Derek, because we just messaged you, Mike,
on Facebook and then I was hoping, I said,
is that the Michael Lido that wrote
the secret astrology of the Bible?
And hey, you know, it led to this night, I mean, you know,
and now we've done two shows with you,
two and a half shows, whatever,
so what more could we be asked for, right?
I tell you what, this one thing I ask for before we go,
whatever you do, please don't grind and ask,
like so many others who have done books
with astrotheology and celestial mythology.
You know, you get to page 308 and all of a sudden,
you know, you get mad at the Catholic church
because they didn't tell you the truth
and that ridiculous stuff.
It doesn't have any place in real scholarship,
so I like the fact that you're calm.
I'm going to have to mention that Maar Doc
is not from the 12th planet, you know, that's about it.
We'll let you do that, but keep it calm, man.
Keep it, you know, just dispassionate, you know,
as they say, just the facts, man,
but I mean, you know, I love your balance treatment,
so by all means, we hope that you stick with that.
So, man, it was great having you once again,
everybody, Mike Lido, the man,
found out about him through Santos Bonacci,
and hey, he writes his own ticket.
I mean, he is a very fine researcher in his own right.
Derek, do you want to add anything
before we sign off tonight?
I just want to close on one thing.
Thank you, Mike, for joining us on the show,
and one thing I really like about what you do
in your research, and it's unique,
I don't see it often, not saying it's not there,
is that you actually change with the evidence
that you do find.
You don't put yourself in a situation
where you force that to be the case.
You are very probabilistic,
and you go based on probability,
and you say, hey, here's the possibility,
this what seems to be, and I really, really like that,
because that's, to me, the best kind of scholar you can get.
When you have scholars who just have it all,
and they know it, what else can they learn?
They have the answers, and if new evidence arises,
they have their preconceived ideas.
There is no place to learn.
You're a true scholar and a true student,
and I appreciate you joining us.
Thank you.
I constantly question everything I write.
I look for evidence, either supported or denied,
and go where it's at, and I try not to make up things
or tap dance around facts that get in the way
of my theory, and give you an example.
One of the theories I was holding
was that all astrology came out
of this Golbeki-Tepi-Coccus region,
and when the Indo-European language expanded,
the astrology went with it,
and then this is why we have this similar astrology
from India to the Celtics, and that fell apart.
It just, there was nothing there to support that,
so it's like, okay, it's back to aliens, you know.
It's like, I got nothing on that.
Awesome, man.
Awesome.
That's awesome.
Way to go, Mike.
Way to go.
Way to go.
Once again, we can't wait to have you again.
Right, Derek?
That's right.
That is right.
Take us out, Derek.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, if you heard,
he already has two books.
Be sure to go on Amazon and search them.
I'll make sure they're down in the description of the video,
so you guys can get a copy of it.
You wanna learn more about some of the underlying,
I like to call this the bones, not the history.
To me, the bones are the celestial myth.
When you really wanna understand
how these religions formulated
and what kept them together,
and also why they're so common
and look similar to other myths,
it's gonna come into his type of work.
It's gonna come into the celestial myths,
what pieces, all these religions together.
Be sure to get the books.
Michael has done excellent work.
He has new research he's constantly coming out with,
and show him some love.
MikeLito at AOL.com.
We love you here at MythVision.
You saw the resurrected Luther firsthand.
He put his hand on,
you put your hand on his side.
You felt the holes.
You know he's real.
So blessed is he who does not see
from here on out.
And you still believe.
You know?
Luther, I wanna ask you on public here,
when's that book gonna be ready?
That's gonna be spring of next year, Derek.
So it's not gonna be as long as it has been.
And I can hardly wait.
We got everything lined up,
and it looks like I've hit a sweet spot
in doing the home stretch here.
So it won't be long.
Now when I say spring of next year,
that's the manuscript being ready.
Actual publication and release
might be a little bit after that.
But it won't be long.
Certainly be sometime summer of next year.
Well, thank you so much for joining me again
here at MythVision Podcast.
We love you guys.
Peace.
