music
We are MythVision.
Hello my MythVisionaries.
Thank you so much for tuning in 2022 is going to be unbelievable.
No comparison to 2021.
We're leaving that in the past and we're moving on.
Jonathan Sheffield, thank you for that intro.
What an amazing intro and he's planning on doing a whole other one for me.
That will be amazing.
Go subscribe to his YouTube channel, please support him.
Show love everybody.
Show love.
Today is my son's birthday.
My oldest son, Derek Lambert.
He's named after me.
He's 15 years of age and I'm going to go out and try and celebrate it by having some
fun, maybe go down to the mall, a few stores, get him a few items for his birthday and make
him feel special.
You know, it's 15 years ago that he was born, starting to feel a little bit old.
We had him at a very young age.
I married my wife when she was actually, she had to be signed over by her parents because
well, you know, she's trying to do the Bible thing and marry the woman that I had a child
with and do the right thing.
And luckily for me, it turned out to be the right girl.
And I hope I turned out to be the right guy, but I just wanted to let everybody know.
If you feel like throwing him some love, you can PayPal me down in the description.
You can throw me some love.
I'll make sure it goes to him.
Maybe we'll do a follow up video bragging on the gifts that he got for his birthday.
But I want to let you know this year, I have so many scholars we're going to be dealing
with upcoming academics, maybe ones you've never heard of.
And we're going from, from, you know, smaller to bigger.
We just broke the 40,000 mark on the channel.
I'm going to have people like Simca, Yucca Voci, I hope I'm saying his name correctly.
I'm going to have a lot of people that I did not have on before on the channel this year.
We're taking things to the next level.
These ideas will start to flow in.
And maybe I'll do some videos where I'm personally giving you the insight that I've picked up.
I mean, imagine I've done countless interviews with these academics hearing various views
and I've pieced some of these puzzles together in my own mind, telling you where I stand
on some issues or where I still have questions and doubts.
Maybe we'll begin to do some series like that this year with a high quality image like I
am right now on the camera.
I'm looking forward to growing and learning and finding ways to bridge and have interfaith
dialogue going from there.
More on Islam will be coming this year as well.
Fingers crossed.
I might can take a trip.
We'll talk about this in the future to Israel in October with Dr. James D. Tabor and be
a cameraman for him, but as well as get content for the channel and those who support me on
the Patreon, we'll be able to see that stuff firsthand.
I'm I plan on creating a members so you could join a members club here on MythVision to
also access that material as well.
There's a lot I want to do, but I just wanted to tell you 2021 is in the past.
Let's make 2022 great.
Let's talk about a lot more ideas than maybe what we've been talking about and expand our
horizon here at MythVision.
I simply wanted to give you a shout out and let everybody know that I love you.
I'm very thankful for all the encouragement, even the criticisms from some of you.
I know when you guys are fans or when you're just trolling me, right?
The trolls, thanks for growing the algorithm and giving attention to the channel because
you just can't remain silent when you hear something.
You got to come and attack back.
I get it.
I hear things from people all the time on Christian channels that I disagree with.
I will either remain silent or give them a jab for the algorithm, even if I disagreed
to show them some love.
So thank you all.
I really appreciate that.
Now I'm going to go spend some time the rest of the day with my wife.
I'll probably drop another video later on this afternoon on the channel just to keep
the algorithm going.
I'm trying to learn this thing and I want to let you know I love you.
So keep doing what you're doing and thank you so much for all the support.
Consider joining and helping out if you want to donate to my son's birthday down in the
description.
I have a PayPal, Cash App, Venmo, all of that as options, but never ever forget we are MythVision.
