You're telling me he wrote the lines about his,
he wrote about his own death and burial?
Like, nah, maybe not.
It doesn't make sense, you can't make it work.
And like, it's not, it's honestly,
the whole thing isn't trickier than that.
You end up with not one messed up story,
but you end up with like two-
Comprehensive stories that make sense.
Pretty reasonable, doesn't work.
You cannot tell the story, you couldn't film it.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
This is going to be a highly scholarly discussion.
I cannot wait to take you guys through the Pentatew,
the development of it.
Who wrote it?
I mean, do we have any ideas when maybe?
I know he doesn't like to talk about dating,
but we might get something out of him, I don't know.
We'll see, he's known for this.
And I'm super excited.
You guys stay tuned.
I'm welcoming on Joel Baden.
Welcome to MythVision Podcast, brother.
Thanks very much.
I say Joel Baden, but Professor Joel Baden,
I really do appreciate it.
You are highly educated in this research here,
and I'm going to go ahead just straight introduce you.
Joel Baden is a Professor of Hebrew Bible,
Director and Center for Continuing Education.
Professor Joel Baden works widely
in the field of Hebrew Bible,
with special attention to literary history
of the Pentatew.
He is the author, most recently of the book of Exodus,
which I'm going to get that,
a biography that's at Princeton University Press.
His other books include J, E,
and the Redaction of the Pentatew,
the Composition of the Pentatew,
Renewing the Documentary Hypothesis,
which is what we're going to talk about today.
And that's a Yale University Press,
The Promise to the Patriarchs, Oxford University Press,
The Historical David,
The Real Life of an Invented Hero.
That'll be exciting.
I definitely cannot wait to read all this.
I can't wait to read all this, honestly.
Reconceiving infertility,
biblical perspectives on procreation and childlessness,
and with Candina Moss, Princeton University Press.
I've been trying to get ahold of her as well,
but she's always busy.
Let's see, The Strata of the Priestly Writings,
Contemporary Debate and Future Directions.
And let's talk your education here.
You have a bachelor's at Yale University,
a master's at University of Chicago,
and a PhD at Harvard University.
Am I missing anything?
That's all.
Okay.
That's it.
That's all, you know,
it's only a lot of education, a lot of stuff.
So he knows quite a bit of things
when it comes to this field of research.
And today we're discussing his book,
The Composition of the Pentatew,
Renewing the Documentary Hypothesis.
Notice it's being renewed.
It makes me wonder if there's more
than one version of this thing.
So Dr. Baden, I appreciate you tuning in.
This is super exciting.
And I wanna give a quick shout out
to Digital Hammurabi, our good friend, Dr. Joshua Bowen.
He wrote my name on The Lambs Book of Life
and told me that, you know, I was welcome.
And you looked at that list and you said,
okay, okay, his name's on the list.
I'll come on the show.
So I thank you, Dr. Josh.
You are the man.
Oh, you big time, brother.
So thank you so much for making this possible.
So Dr. Baden, Moses wrote the first five books.
That's like, that's well-known, right?
Yeah, and so I think we're done here.
Yeah, that's the traditional claim.
It goes back a long time,
though not as far back as people think.
You know, I think everybody's, you know,
raised in traditional backgrounds,
taught with Jewish or Christian, right?
Like that's the standard thing, right?
The five books of Moses.
But, you know, there's reasons to think
that that's not the case.
Aside from the fact that, as it turns out,
the Torah, the Pentateuch itself, never makes that claim.
And of course, actually like virtually no biblical books
make claims actually about who wrote them,
you know, aside from maybe the prophets
that get like names attached to them, right?
This is what Jeremiah said.
Okay, that's different.
But, you know, Moses is a character in the Pentateuch.
He's not the author of it.
And despite the sort of the longstanding claims
that Moses was the author,
like, you know, that as an idea,
it has been challenged for a long time in various ways, right?
So that, you know, in the, even in the medieval period,
Jewish thinkers were like,
you're telling me he wrote the lines
about his, he wrote about his own death and burial?
Like, no, maybe not.
Or, you know, there are some like little chronological things.
The famous one,
famous one at the very beginning of the book
of Deuteronomy, which is like Moses' like moment to shine,
right?
Like that's his big speech.
And the very first things it says in the book is like,
this is what Moses said on the other side of the Jordan.
And, you know, again, in the medieval period,
people were like, the other side of the Jordan,
like you only call it the other side,
if you're on like the Canaan side.
Why would Moses say the other side of the Jordan
if he was the, you know, there's little things like that.
You know, I will say, you know, certainly by the 17th century,
certainly the 18th century, people were like,
now like this, this doesn't work.
Moses can't have actually written this.
I'll tell you my, I love this.
My favorite argument for why Moses probably didn't write it.
It's like a side thing.
But there's a line in the book of Numbers where it says,
now Moses was the most humble man on earth.
And like the logic of the most humble man on earth,
writing that he's the most humble man on earth,
like even like, yeah, even some like pretty devout critics
were like, that doesn't feel right.
So, you know, mosaic authorship,
like whether it was one person or many,
the idea that it was Moses who wrote it,
basically fallen out.
Yeah, we're like 400 years into nobody,
into that not being like a accepted
scholarly position anymore.
When do you think someone, and this is interesting,
I just kind of like want to press in whenever you get into
something I'll throw an idea out there.
Of course, if someone wants to super chat a question,
feel free, we won't wait till the end,
we'll try to incorporate your question
during this broadcast.
But when do you think people started saying
Moses wrote the five?
Do you have a general idea of when you think,
I know you don't have like a date on June 14th, you know,
like-
No, it was over breakfast one Tuesday, yeah.
No, the, so it's interesting, right?
We sort of think that that's like an eternal idea,
like that it's always been attributed to Moses.
But as far as I can tell,
and again, I can't, as you said,
I can't give like a specific date,
but as far as I can tell,
what happened was essentially like a couple of like pieces
of like nomenclature change.
So like people, even in the Bible,
it's already called the scroll of the Torah of Moses.
There's already reference to it,
but that doesn't mean that it's written by Moses, right?
That just means it's like,
in the same way that the book of Ruth
wasn't written by Ruth, right?
Like, so to call it the scroll of Moses
actually doesn't necessarily mean he wrote it,
but you can understand how somebody would make that leap.
So, you know, I think that contributed in part to it.
It's just like calling it that.
And also like the word Torah actually
also changed its meaning over time.
And originally Torah was like,
just meant like a law or a practice, right?
Like, so even within the Bible,
we have references to like the Torah
of the burnt offering in the middle,
in like the first part of Leviticus, right?
And then there's like, you know,
the paragraph about like how you do the burnt offering, right?
And that's called the Torah.
It's like the individual law of the burnt offering.
And then like Torah gets expanded to mean
like a whole set of laws.
So the book of Deuteronomy refers to like its own laws
as Torah, but like not the whole thing, not the story,
just like just the law part.
And then eventually, so like it keeps on growing
until the word Torah encompassed everything
from Genesis through Deuteronomy, at which point,
like it was one thing to say Moses is responsible
for the Torah in Deuteronomy, like he speaks it,
like that's reasonable.
But once Moses, you know, once, so in Deuteronomy,
it says Deuteronomy 31-9, it says, you know,
Moses wrote down this Torah.
And what it means in that context is Moses wrote down
the laws of Deuteronomy that he just said.
But once the word Torah had expanded
to mean the whole thing,
now when people read Moses wrote down this Torah,
they were like, oh, Moses wrote the Torah, right?
And that line becomes like the crux, but, you know,
again, like when we figure out like how the word Torah
changed in meaning, we can sort of let go of that claim.
It's not unlike, you know, it's not unlike the way
that other biblical figures get attached
to kinds of writings that like they didn't actually write,
but now bear their names.
This may be a different show, but like David
didn't write the Psalms, but we call this,
but like everyone refers to the Psalms
as like the Psalms of David.
Solomon, you know, didn't write proverbs
and Ecclesiastes, but like even in the Bible, it says he did.
Like somebody like said, like these are the proverbs of Solomon.
But again, the proverbs of Solomon doesn't,
even that doesn't mean Solomon wrote them.
It just means like we're affiliating his name with,
in any case, Moses's authorship,
longstanding thing going pretty far back.
You know, the early, the New Testament refers
to the Torah as the books of Moses
and early Jewish interpreters were very clear, right?
Moses wrote the entire Torah,
though even they were like,
but maybe not the last verses where he dies.
That development took up later in your book.
So for those who have not read it,
you need to see the composition of the Pentateuch,
renewing the documentary hypothesis by Dr. Baden.
Now I know it's a little pricey.
If you can afford it, it's really worth it.
I've got it down in my recommended books
and the link in the description
on the Amazon affiliate link gives me a slight kick
if you guys buy something,
but really you need to see this
because you build up in this,
you build up this really cool case
and talk about the rabbis and you say,
well, you know, they even started one of them.
I mean, you name them by name,
I can't remember their names,
but he's like, there's something,
that isn't quite, you know, add up.
And then another rabbi jumps in and goes,
you know, you're right, you're right.
All of this is by him except this and this.
And it sounds like there's this same harmonization tool
Christians use of this book interprets this book,
Bible interprets a Bible kind of concepts.
And you point out quite often in this book,
a lot of contradictions,
you give a great first story example of Joseph.
And I guess it'd be the good time
to go into the slavery of Joseph.
Who took him to Egypt?
Who bought him?
What, Amalekites?
Or were these the Ishmaelites?
I mean, what's going on here?
Yeah, yeah, I started the book there in part
because it's like, it's a reasonably well-known story.
Partly because there's a whole musical about it.
But like, it's just, you know, it's one example out of many.
The issue when you pick up the beginning
of the story of Joseph, and you know,
I think most people who are reasonably familiar
with the Bible can tell you the basic story, right?
Like, Joseph pissed off his brothers
and they decided to kill him.
And they were like, hold on, let's not kill him.
Let's just sell him and get rid of him that way.
And so they sell him and they take his, you know,
his like special fancy coat thing.
And they like, and they put the blood on it
and they show it to Jacob, his father,
and Jacob therefore thinks that he's been killed by a beast.
But we know he's actually just like down in Egypt
where the story's then gonna take place for a while
until like the brothers come back to him.
So like, as with most biblical stories,
if you ask someone to sort of tell it to you,
they tell it to you like that, right?
Like a perfectly straightforward story.
Yeah, I always read it that way.
I never even, I didn't have the tools.
Nobody said Ishmaelites and Malachites.
What the heck?
It's not even about having the tools.
It's about being trained to read in such a way
that our eyes gloss over problems
because we're told, right?
Like, it's not even we were told, right?
When you pick up a story, you like expect it to work
and to make sense and to not be problematic.
And so like we like instinctively fix problems
when we read.
And so it takes, it's not even like,
it's not even about having special like,
special advanced skills.
It's just about reading it like super carefully
without thinking ahead of time,
oh, this must make sense, right?
We expect it to make sense, right?
We should pick up every text and expect it to make sense,
but we should also be like ready for it not to.
So in this case, right?
In this case, the crucial moment happens
like at the climax of the story.
When Joseph's brothers take him
and they throw him into a pit
and then they sit down to eat a meal
because they're like, you know, a bunch of callous dudes
who just like killed off their brother
and then like sat down for lunch.
And then like they look up
and they see a caravan of Ishmaelites passing by
on their way to Egypt.
And that's when Judah is like, oh, hold on.
Why are we gonna kill him?
Like we can make some cash here.
Let's, you know, and also like not have blood in our hands.
Let's just sell them to these passing Ishmaelites,
which all is perfectly good and makes sense in our story.
And then there's this moment when it suddenly says,
and then some Midianite trader is passed by
and pulled Joseph out of the pit.
Now, Ishmaelites and Midianites may all be foreign to us,
but they're not the same people, right?
So suddenly we're like,
there's two caravans of people coming through
and the plan was to sell them to the Ishmaelites,
but the Midianites take him out of the pit they've put him in.
And then it says,
and this is the most confusing part,
this says, and they sold him to the Ishmaelites.
But who sold him to the Ishmaelites?
The brother's plan was to sell him to the Ishmaelites.
The Midianites just pulled him out of the pit.
Did the Midianites sell him to the Ishmaelites?
Like maybe in that case,
the brothers didn't get anything out of it at all.
Like, did they even know what had happened?
I don't know.
And then, but then like the story goes on
as if nothing were weird,
and they like take the coat and they do the thing.
And then at the end of the chapter,
it tells us that the Midianites sold Joseph in Egypt,
which doesn't make any sense
because someone sold Joseph to the Ishmaelites earlier.
Was it the brothers or was it the Midianites?
Whoever it was,
it should have been the Ishmaelites who brought him to Egypt.
And in fact, it even says earlier on
and they brought him to Egypt.
And then suddenly the Midianites
were the ones who were selling him Egypt.
So like, how, like just on the level of like
trying to figure, just plot, right?
Just who is doing what and when and where and how and why?
Like just basic like story stuff.
You like think about how could you,
how would you film it, right?
Like it's a story taking place, right?
You should be able to imagine,
you could be able to picture it happening, right?
Like how, where is anybody?
Are the brothers Ishmaelites, Midianites and Joseph,
like reading the story as it is in the biblical text,
you actually can't, it doesn't make sense,
but you can't make it work.
And like, it's not, it's honestly,
the whole thing isn't trickier than that.
Like it's not more complicated than like, it doesn't work.
Like on the basic level of story, it just doesn't work.
And so, you know, it becomes an issue of like,
okay, well, like there's a contradiction, right?
Ishmaelites here and Midianites here and like,
well, what parts of the story involve the Midianites?
Like if the two things can't go together,
then like what has to connect with what?
And, you know, if you sort of like follow,
like set your contradictions like in two columns as it were,
like this can't go with this.
And then you're like, what, but this part has to go
with this other part of the story, right?
Like the Midianites stealing him from the pit
or taking him out of the pit has to go
with the Midianites selling him at the end of the story.
And the Ishmaelites, you know,
all the Ishmaelites stuff has to go with Judah being like,
let's sell him to these Ishmaelites.
Like, so you just like put the things together
and this like miraculous thing happens.
Then like it's replicable, right?
Anybody can kind of do this, right?
It helps to have somebody guiding you,
but like anybody can do this, right?
You just, you take the parts that don't agree
and you take the parts that do agree.
And like you do a little horizontal separation
and a little vertical continuity stuff.
And you end up in, even in this chapter
that like doesn't seem super, like we know relatively well,
you end up with not one messed up story,
but you end up with like two comprehensive stories
that make sense somewhere.
Pretty reasonable stories that like each individually
are telling how Joseph got to Egypt,
but they, and like they agree on stuff, right?
Everyone knows, right?
Joseph's brothers like tried to off him,
but they failed and he ended up in Egypt.
But, you know, how did he end up in Egypt?
Who took him there?
Which brother was like, was the one who, you know,
cause at one point Reuben tries to save
and another point Judah tries to like not kill him.
Anyway, it all ends up working out really nicely.
And, you know, I open with that story
because it's like reasonably short.
The place where scholars figured this out first was,
I think like probably the most famous of these,
which is the flood story, right?
Again, in like the, you know, 17th, 18th century,
the part of the story that scholars were like,
this just doesn't work.
Of course, it wasn't, they weren't like,
let's look at the story of Joseph.
They were like, let's look at the most,
like one of the most famous stories in the entire thing
where the contradictions are actually like far more blatant
in a sense, even though the Ishmaelite Midnight thing
is like pretty in your face.
Like the flood story, which I don't do in the book
in part because it's so famous
and in part because it's just so long,
it would take like, you know, it's three chapters long
and all the other ones I look at are like one chapter
because, you know, one only has so much time.
But, you know, the flood story is another one.
It's like, the flood story is one that everybody,
everybody you stop on the street
could tell you the flood story, probably.
Like to some extent, you know, God said to Noah,
you know, everybody sucks, I'm going to destroy everything.
You know, so I'm going to bring a flood.
So get, you know, like build an ark and get in it.
And how many animals is everybody?
Like you do this, right?
Like I'll play with you, right?
How many animals is God tell Noah to take on the ark?
Derek, go ahead, how many do you?
A pair, a pair, talks about impairs.
Right, right, right.
Yeah, a pair of every animal there is, right?
Male and female, right?
Why? Because like after the flood,
you need them to reproduce, okay?
So you take a pair of every animal
and then, and then like, we all know,
how long did the flood last?
Like famously?
40 days, yeah.
40 days, right?
The flood lasts for 40 days.
And when Noah sends out,
like Noah sends out the bird, right?
Like famously, what kind of bird is it?
I think it's a dove or, yeah.
Right, right, Noah sends out a dove.
And it, right, you do it really well.
And at the end, right, like everything dies
and then ark comes to rest on the mountain
and he sends out the dove and all the things.
And he gets out and then God says,
I promise never to do it again.
And the sign of my promise is?
Never to let it rain again or flood again, if you will.
And so what does God create in order to rainbow, right?
And that's where we get rainbows from.
And that's the story.
Where like, and everybody can tell you
and you can tell, and everyone can tell you that story
and most people could sing you the damn song, right?
Like, Noah, he built him, he built him.
And Arkie, right, like this like silly kids song
that like tells the story.
Everyone can tell you that story
and everyone has it with the same details, right?
40 days and 40 nights of rain
and he sends out a dove and like two of every animal.
And if you read the text of Genesis,
you're not going to find that stuff.
Like it's there, you'll find that stuff
but you'll also find other stuff, right?
Like in Genesis, it also lasts 150 days.
And he also takes on seven pairs of like clean animals
and birds, right?
Clean means sacrificeable.
And he also sends out a raven.
And like you couldn't like just on chronology alone,
you can't make it work, right?
To how long does it last?
40 days or 150 days?
I don't know, like the Bible says both.
And like there's a whole calendar
and you can't like, it doesn't, it just doesn't work.
You cannot tell the story, you couldn't film it, right?
Like you can't, it's not, it's simply not a coherent story.
And the flood story, and we just did like, you know,
there's a dove and there's raven.
There's 40 days, 150 days.
There's two of every animal
and there's seven pairs of all the clean animals, right?
Again, it falls into two contradictory columns, right?
Where they're contradictory to each other.
But they're all totally consistent this way.
And you get two perfectly good flood stories.
In one.
Not one messed up one.
Right.
I just wanted to let, you know,
Flip, thank you for the super chat, my friend.
He's bringing us back to Moses for a second.
I don't know if you could see this.
I have to ask, is Moses a composite character?
Does he follow pre-existing literary elements?
Kind of how Moses brought the word down from God.
And Jesus was the word, logos from Yahweh.
That jumps to the New Testament a lot.
But, yeah, is he a composite character?
Most scholars think he didn't exist now.
And it used to be a consensus that he did.
Do you think he exists?
Exist is almost, it's almost the one category.
So the question is this, right?
Like, let's do it this way.
Are the stories about Moses in the Bible
historically accurate and true?
And the answer is no.
Is Moses in the Bible a literary character?
Yes, right?
He's a character in a book.
And like, if that's a really useful thing to remember
is what we're doing is we're reading a book.
And Moses is a character in it.
And whether, like in a sense,
whether there's a historical origin there or not
is kind of irrelevant to the question of like his character
in the same way that, you know,
I could write a historical fiction about whomever
and like the person exists, but my story's not true.
So I don't know whether there was actually a dude
named Moses at that point.
Like, I kind of suspect that there was in part because,
like, again, not saying that the stories
about him in the Bible are true,
but was there someone named Moses
who probably did something like leave Egypt,
maybe with some people with him?
Yes, that's possible.
In fact, I'd even say it's almost probable,
if only because if you were totally, totally inventing
like the hero of your like early national history, right?
Like, you probably would give him not,
like a name that was not that one, right?
Moses is an Egyptian name.
And if you were like inventing completely like your hero,
you'd probably give him some sort of good Israelite name,
right?
Because he's an Israelite after all, like in the story.
So again, there's a few things like that
that make me suspect that there probably was someone named Moses
at some point in history,
but that means it says nothing about whether the story's
about him in the Bible or true.
One of the reasons, and this goes to the question
that was asked about being literally composite,
one of the reasons that we can't say the stories
in about Moses in the Bible or true,
it's for the exact same reason that we can't say
how the flood exactly happened, right?
Because there's not one consistent story of Moses,
but what there are are multiple stories of Moses, right?
From the different authors of the text,
and like if one of them is true, then the other one isn't,
right?
And the composite story like suffers
from all these same kinds of narrative problems.
And like, you know, Moses is so broad, right?
Covers four books of the five that, you know,
you can't like point to like the moment
where it breaks down or anything.
It's just like the whole thing doesn't quite work,
except, you know, we can point out some things like,
like twice God tells Moses like,
hey, this is my name, you can call me this now.
Like Moses could have been,
the second time Moses could have been like,
check, like heard that one already.
And then like on a more like a limited level,
if you were to go try and,
if you try and read, right?
Like the core chapters of, of Exodus, right?
With the whole event on Sinai, right?
Where Moses is constantly going up and down the mountain,
right?
You might notice that there are some moments
when Moses goes up the mountain
and then God is like, okay, come up the mountain.
And then Moses is like suddenly back down
at the bottom of the mountain again,
or like he's at the bottom of the mountain
and then it's like, and he went back down the mountain.
But I like, there's, again,
there's these like narrative plot problems
that signal that, that the story is,
is composite in all these ways.
Interesting.
Last thing on that topic,
and I do want to mention this,
Jim Majors man, what's up brother?
He's in the chat.
He's a myth fish and a professor bait
and being as there were clearly no winners
in the Genesis Flood accounts.
Is it safe to say the rainbow given by God
was a precipitation trophy?
Do I have to respond to jokes?
Hi, Jim, I interact with Jim sometimes on the Twitters.
That's a pretty good one.
Right?
That's all right.
Yeah, so as far as Moses being a pre,
he asked also like pre-existent literary composite figure,
you know how a lot of people will say,
well, you know, Noah looks a lot of like in the enuma leash,
you know, you could look at characters
and other of these stories.
Do you know any stories that Moses particularly mimics
or has similarities to that pre,
or we would say are older?
Yeah, yeah.
In fact, you know, one of the most famous
is Moses's birth story.
All right, the story, you know, the whole thing like,
you know, he's has to be hidden
and he gets put in a little like a basket
or whatever in the, and you put in the river
and gets found.
That story is like a thousand years earlier
than the biblical texts at least.
I don't have the numbers right in front of me.
That's the birth legend of the Assyrian king Sargon.
From like, I think from like the third millennium BCE.
And like, you know, in Sargon's case,
he's found by a goddess, I'm pretty sure.
But like the same, it's clearly the same story, right?
So it's, this is a case where the people
or the person in this case writing
that particular like Moses story,
that story of his birth and being hidden and all of that.
It's clearly drawing on a probably relatively well-known
like much older Mesopotamian tradition.
And like, and taking up like that kind of birth story, right?
Like that's the birth story of this legendary king
for Mesopotamia.
So like, that's a good story for us to use
for our legendary like not king, but like a lawgiver, right?
It signals his importance by virtue of its participation
in like this sort of well-known like, you know, literary trope.
Interesting.
Thank you so much for taking the time to answer that.
And moving forward, I'm taking super chats
if you guys want to have questions.
So going into some issues of other contradictions
you mentioned, who's Moses's dad?
I actually did a live the other day with Dr. Robert Price
where I mentioned, you know,
these contradictions reading out of your book a little
and I said, look, we don't know who Moses's dad was
or what mountain?
Like which mountain is this more or Horab
or is this Mount Sinai?
Like what is the name of Moses's dad
and all these different things?
Can you mention some of those as well as,
I think doublets play into the narratives
that you were already kind of talking about
like doublet type narratives, but sometimes are really small
sometimes are really big.
Can you give us some examples of this?
And then maybe it'll segue us into, you know,
why there's source material.
We can start talking about the documentary hypothesis
as we segue it.
Yeah, so again, like we're all trained by our traditions
to like ignore stuff, right?
Like to just read past it gloss over it
or explain it away somehow.
But like once you start ignoring stuff
and glossing over stuff and explaining stuff away,
you're acknowledging that there's stuff to ignore
or gloss over or explain away, right?
Like we need to remember that every time someone's like,
no, no, that's not a problem.
It's, I just explain it this way.
What they're actually doing is acknowledging
that there's something that requires explanation
and isn't just like straightforward and nice.
So, you know, the Pentateuch is like, it's full.
It's full of contradictions.
And as you say, doublets and all kinds of other problems.
I did the flood in like incredibly quickly just now.
You know, creation, like creation is kind of the big one,
right?
Like this is another one where like you could ask anybody
like how did creation go in the Bible?
And they're like, oh, that's easy, right?
Like seven days, right?
Like first there's nothing and then God makes the things
and says that that sounds good.
And it's like day one, two, three, four, five, six
and on the seven he rested and then Adam and Eve.
And then like the Garden of Eden.
And like, they just, you know, you just say it like that.
But like the two things don't go together, right?
Like the seven day creation story in Genesis one,
like you can't fit the other one into it
except by explaining it like in some sort of a convoluted
manner, right?
The Garden of Eden and the seven days of creation,
like they're just totally at odds with each other.
So that's like doublet and contradiction.
God, like it's, there's a million of them.
So you picked on some of the laws too.
Yeah, the ten laws too.
But you picked on some of the names, right?
Like Moses's father-in-law has two names.
The mountain where God appears and gives the laws
has two names.
There, you know, there's this thing called the tent of
meeting that is described twice,
once in Exodus and once in sort of, you know,
Leviticus numbers and in the two cases,
it's built differently.
It's in a different place.
It has a different function.
So that's a doublet and a contradiction.
There's, I mean, there's easy doublets, right?
How many times does Moses get water out of a rock
with his staff, right?
That happens twice in the Bible,
even though like, I don't know, like he did it once
and then they got thirsty again.
He was like, I know how to fix it.
Anyway, he did it and he does it again.
Yeah, I mean, it's almost, it's not that it's infinite,
but there's a lot of it.
Again, some of them are really small,
like the name of a person, who cares?
Some of them are like a little bigger.
When and where did Aaron die, right?
Says one thing in numbers and a different thing
in Deuteronomy.
And then, right, how did Moses get to Egypt?
When did God reveal his name to,
when did people start worshiping Israel's God
by his proper name, right?
In Genesis, in Genesis, they start doing it right away.
In Exodus, they start doing it in,
we learned God's name in Exodus three,
and then again in Exodus six.
What is it that Moses gets on the mountain?
Does he get laws?
Does he get a blueprint for a tabernacle?
How long, does he tell them the laws right then?
Does he save it for later?
And as you said, within the laws themselves,
there's actually plenty of contradictions also, right?
In Exodus, we learned, you know,
wherever you wanna build an altar and worship me,
go for it, man.
Like that's what God says right at the beginning of those laws.
And then in Deuteronomy,
it's like there's only one place where you can do that.
No other prophet.
And then yes, there will be more prophets.
I wanna say something though.
There's almost 200 people watching right now, right?
And I'm kind of irritated, right?
Because there's only 69 likes, Joel.
There's only 69 likes.
I don't know why.
I'm very dislikable is the thing.
You haven't gotten, there's probably more of those.
I got one and I suspect just my opinion
is either Christian or someone is a conservative Jew.
I think it's probably digital.
Hammurabi, I saw those guys pop up.
No, that's what it is.
That's, I know it's you.
Hit that like button, everybody.
We're going into some crazy stuff.
I'm really excited because when you read his book,
I mean, it's over my head.
I must admit, it's a lot of the JEDP material.
Like in my head, I'm like,
what genius figured this out to know what is a J
and what is a E and what is a D?
That's what I'm saying.
So like you gotta read it.
It just blew my mind how you guys were able to do that.
And another thing, we got a super chat.
Can I ask this question?
Is Abram from ER in the E source, Genesis 15.7?
Or is that a later insertion based on P?
Genesis 15 starts with after this.
Are we missing E's opening?
Okay, so that is like a high level question, man.
That's a super high level question.
So I'll answer that.
And then like, it's probably worth backing up
to be like, heller JEP and D, right?
You said it a couple of times.
I've said it.
This question is totally based on it.
And like, I realize it's easy to like,
talk about all the contradictions and stuff
and not actually get into like the meat of the things.
What's the theory, right?
Okay, so Penn's question is a good one, right?
Like in one place it says that Abraham comes from,
comes from or of the Chaldeans.
And then in another place that we think
is from a different author, it says the same thing.
And so the, that's a pretty good one.
I got to tell you this.
All right, that was good, dude.
I can't tell you.
I have no problem with that.
That's like, at some point like I could really grow,
I could really go for it if I wanted to, but like, okay.
Anyway, welcome to Between Two Ferns.
Okay, so I mean, the issue is this,
like the, it's Penn's question.
It's one or the other probably.
I think that my suspicion is that it's the one in,
earlier in what we call P, that is the insertion
based on this one in Genesis 15,
but I don't know that for sure.
And I do think we're missing probably the beginning
of the E source, but I don't know that we,
I don't know how much.
Okay, that was my answer to Ben.
And now I have to explain to everybody else
what the hell did I just say?
Like, what was that?
So here's, so like, okay, let's back up for a second.
Like to our, when I was talking about the flood story, right?
One flood story that doesn't work,
we can separate really nicely
into two perfectly good flood stories.
And you guys just stop there and be like,
oh, so there'd like just happen to be two flood stories
and somehow they got together like this.
But I also mentioned the two creation stories, right?
And it turns out one of the flood stories,
like directly is related to one of the creation stories
and the other flood stories related
to the other creation story.
In other words, like they're literally connected, right?
Cross references and all kinds of stuff.
So what that suggests is we're not looking
at like random bits of stuff,
but like actually longer compositions, right?
Something that began with Genesis one and continued on
and eventually hit its version of the flood story.
And then you can just keep going, right?
You keep going, you see the, as you keep reading, right?
What are the parts of the text as we read
that agree with the narrative claims and presuppositions
of that Genesis one flood story like trajectory
and so on and so on for the next.
So like it's actually, you know, Derek, you're like,
I don't know how to do this.
Like you could do it.
Like it's not like outside the realm of like normal reading.
Like there's no trick here.
It's just reading, right?
It doesn't require, it helps to have the Hebrew,
but like it doesn't require some sort of like advanced
degree in physics or something, right?
If you simply stop and read slowly.
So you like, you know, in any case, you come to,
you're reading along and you're like,
oh, well if it says this, right?
If it's telling me like an Abraham left whatever town,
then like it's probably related to the story earlier
where he got to that town, right?
That's just, you know, simple kind of like
reading continuity stuff.
Or, you know, to go back to the creation flood stuff, right?
If Genesis one says, you know, part of creation
was separating the waters above and the waters below, right?
These like mythic primordial waters
that are above and below the earth.
And then in the flood story, one flood story,
at one point it says, and it rained for 40 days.
And the other one says, God opened the flood gates
from above and below.
Okay, like the one that says flood gates
from above and below clearly is like referring to
the cosmic vision of Genesis one.
So that kind of continuity.
Again, I'll give another quick example.
To give a basics, to explain that though,
even in the dumber terms,
what you're pretty much saying is,
that's how we can tell that the same source materials
being used and that the flood in Genesis six and seven,
if you will, is actually referring to Genesis one.
They actually connect.
So it's almost like a narrative,
retelling the Genesis one account.
Right, it is.
In the case of the flood, right?
Like the opening of the cosmic waters above and below
in the flood story is like clearly,
okay, God is like undoing the creation of Genesis one.
So like it's not just words, right?
It's concepts and it's story.
And another like really quick example,
again, from something I mentioned,
I talked about there's two tenths of meeting, right?
There's one into the center of the camp
and there's one outside the camp.
And then there's a whole bunch of other material
in the Pentateuch where the Israelites all go
to the center of the camp to the tent of meeting
or Moses goes out of the camp
to the tent of meeting out there.
Like it's not rocket science.
It's like, okay, so like a bunch of stories are connected
by virtue of where they think the tent of meeting is.
And another bunch of stories are connected by virtue
where they think the tent of meeting is.
And like they don't all work together, right?
Like, but you know, again,
like you separate the things
and then you do the columns.
If you do this over the course of the entirety
of the Pentateuch, you end up actually not with two different,
like not with the two narratives
as we have in the creation flood,
but like a third one comes in in Genesis 15, I think,
a third one comes in that like,
how do I know there's a third one suddenly shows up
because it's telling me stuff that doesn't agree
with either of the two that I've already identified.
And then it continues with its own stuff
that like, and you know, you're just following it through
and you go on and you get these three sort of
interweaving with each other as you read
all the way through Genesis, through numbers,
and then something gets to Deuteronomy
and like, it's got a whole bunch of different stuff to say,
right?
And you're like, oh, I'm reading like,
I'm reading something different again.
And so, and that's it, right?
And by the end, there's four, right?
There's basically four like narratives
that we can pull out of the text and see that they are,
like the text that we have, the canonical pentateuch
is problematic, right?
It's hard to read in all the ways I've described,
both on like the individual like story level
and on like the broader narrative level.
It's like the four gospels.
It's like trying to say,
the four gospels are perfectly lined up,
put them side by side and you're going to see,
hold on, how many women went to the gym?
Hold on, he went outside in Galilee?
Where, you know, like-
Right, so, right, it's an analogy
because it like, it's the analogy
to the situation beforehand, right?
Imagine if you took the gospels and you were like,
this isn't four different takes on the same story.
This is just one story and you were like,
and I'm going to smoosh them all together, right?
You would end up with, in your text,
you'd end up with like some contradictions, right?
How many people were aware, right?
You're going to know these better than I am,
but like when the gospels don't agree on a thing,
if you were to try and combine them into one story,
you would have disagreements in your story
and you wouldn't know which one was true, right?
So what we have in the Pentateuch is the combination,
but by following all the things
that agree and disagree with each other,
you end up with four source texts, four documents
that like agree internally with themselves
that are pretty much continuous.
I use the words like continuous and coherent and like,
and that, and the coolest part is actually
not unlike the gospels,
but you can see the way,
from the way that each one of them told the story,
like what are the things that they cared about, right?
How did they think things worked?
How did they understand God's existence,
God's relationship with humanity, with Israel?
It's not the same, right?
They didn't all think the same thing
in the same way that the gospel writers
didn't all think the same thing, right?
It's pretty useful.
I just had to pop this up
because Dr. Bowen made this possible.
So you can't, I can't leave my boy hanging.
And of course he thinks you're the best guest ever.
And look, I watched your interview with him
and I don't know if I could even compete.
That's how good he interviewed you.
So would you mention the legal issues?
Maybe some of the-
And have you ever seen Megan interview someone?
She's, dude, there's nobody like her.
She's so chill too, seriously.
She's just so chill.
I've interviewed her one time
and she was a little nervous, I think.
But anyway, we're sidetracking here,
but can you discuss a little bit of legal section?
Yeah, so the thing to remember,
we sort of instinctively,
and Christianity is a little bit responsible for this,
we separate the law from the narrative, right?
We think like, in part because Christianity
was like law schmaw, right?
So like legal Schmiegel would have been funnier.
Anyway, so like when we separate the law from the narrative,
we get this like false sense of like other story
and like that's, you know,
all this interesting stuff that's going on.
And then there's like these big chunks of law in there
and like they're doing their own thing.
The answer to remember is every one of the laws,
the big, you know, the laws all come in the,
in the Pentateuch and big chunks, right?
There's a big chunk in the, in Exodus 21, 23,
there's the big chunk of Leviticus
in the first half of numbers
and there's the big chunk of Deuteronomy.
And none of those are just like,
like you're reading along and suddenly there's law code, right?
Like they're all part of stories, right?
When, God told Moses the laws
and Moses told the laws to the people, right?
Like where in the wilderness,
about the mountain or 40 years later or whatever it was,
but like the laws are part of the stories.
So in fact, the idea that like Moses,
like when and where Moses gave the laws
and what laws they were
is actually part of the contradictions of the text.
So that when we talking earlier about like
other contradictions between various parts of the laws,
you know, how long are you allowed to keep a slave
and you know, how are you supposed to observe the Passover?
There's all sorts of them,
like when and where and how the festivals all work.
Could we include marrying foreigners
or at least involving the whole Gentile theme,
the others into this complex?
Is one side somewhat saying don't do it?
And the other side is like, look,
there's some flexibility.
No, actually like I would,
I think my feeling is,
I think most of them were like...
Don't do it.
It depends on your definition of foreigner, right?
There's definitely like the people who live in Canaan
when the Israelites get there,
no one thinks they should be marrying.
Right.
Others like maybe it's like,
it's actually, it's much later in the Bible, right?
Ezra, who is like, never no one ever.
But you know, so it's a little bit,
it's a little different in the Pentateuch.
In any case, you've got these law codes embedded in narratives
and the laws disagree with each other
and the law codes are parts of these different sources.
So, you know, again,
like I still haven't gotten to like JEP and D, right?
Like, so I'll just say JEP and D are the,
I'm just gonna get to that a little bit.
They're the names, like the little sigla,
the little names that we give
to the four sources of the Pentateuch.
It doesn't matter why we call them that for the most part.
Some of them are easy.
D is the source that shows up in Deuteronomy,
like I suggested,
and P is the source in Leviticus
that cares about the priests, right?
That's why we call it P.
And J and E are the other ones
and I'm not even gonna get into why they're called that
because it's too complicated.
But, so when we've heard of JEP and D,
what we're referring to are the sources, right?
These source documents that make up the Pentateuchal text.
So the laws of Exodus 21 to 23
belong to the E source, right?
They're part of E's story, right?
E's going along telling a story of where the Israelites are,
the Israelites leave Egypt
and they come to this mountain in the wilderness
and God says, I'm gonna make a covenant with you
and here's the laws of making that covenant.
Like that's all part of a story
and then the laws are embedded in it.
And P has its story in the Israelites,
leave Egypt and they come to this mountain in the wilderness
and God's like, all right, you gotta build me a house.
We're gonna call it Tabernacle.
You build the house and once you build the house,
I'm gonna tell you how you need to like do sacrifices
and all those things and that's the priestly laws, right?
And they sometimes contradict the laws from E.
Mostly they're just like worried about a different thing.
And then, you know, like the story goes along
and you get to Deuteronomy and Moses is like, hey,
so like what happened back then was we left Egypt
and we got to the mountain in the wilderness
and God gave me laws
and I didn't tell them to you until now, right?
Which is obviously contradictory with what we have
in Exodus and Leviticus where it's nothing but laws.
But in Deuteronomy, Moses is like, I held onto these.
I held onto these for 40 years
and now I'm gonna give them to you.
And so the laws in Deuteronomy are specific
like to the context of Deuteronomy's story,
the de-sources story and have full of contradictions
with both the P-laws and Leviticus
and the E-laws in Exodus.
I wonder if the redactor is the one
who's trying to connect it by saying,
well, you know, I forgot to give it to you back here.
I wonder if the redactor included
that narrative format to connect it.
You know what I mean?
But just something to think about.
So I don't think that's what's happening there,
but I think it's worth remembering.
I mean, the redactor is worth bringing up, right?
Like the fact is, if at some point we're like, as we are,
if we say, you know, this isn't one thing,
it was four things that have been smushed together
or interwoven, right?
To create this one kind of wonky, like canonical story,
like someone did that.
That's what I'm saying.
And I will tell you that the question
that I get most often, most often,
and I talk about this stuff all the time,
everybody, like people generally can get on board
with, you know, there's contradictions.
And I can take like any one of these stories
that Josh, the Joseph story or the Flood story
or whatever, I can take a whole range of texts
and be like, I can show you in a way that we'll come into
that there are in fact two stories here
and people get on board with that.
And then everyone goes, but why the hell
would anyone ever do this to them?
Like, why do we have two of these things?
Why do we have four?
Why did somebody think I've got to make these four into one?
And why did they do it in such a way that like,
what I end up with is this like mess of a whole?
Like, what was the incentive for someone to do that?
And you know, your question is about like,
how did that mechanically happen, right?
Like, how did the redactor of the texts
like make it work together?
The answer is like, he for sure wasn't trying to, right?
Somebody who's trying to combine the two flood stories
in such a way that like, it's like smooths them out,
does not do what we have here, right?
Because what we have here is two totally complete flood
stories where every word is preserved
and they're smushed together.
And like you end up with like verses back to back
that are like, and you know, and every,
all flesh that was on earth died, period.
All existence on earth died.
It's like, you can see that somebody like took the line
from one about everyone dying in the line from one,
like didn't try and make them into one sentence.
It's just like, I'm just like, keep it all
and just smush it together.
