We must believe this or else, do you know the consequences of this?
If you don't believe, you better believe now or else!
The McPolygists strike back.
I really think there's like a persecution complex about the scholarship of the Tim and
Lydia McGrew and what they have going on and for some reason their work isn't gaining traction.
It's almost like other Christian scholars aren't convinced and that's not bringing up the non-Christian
scholars and those who are more in the liberal vein of historical methodology and such that I
talked to. They can't seem to get their own side figured out and Jonathan McClatchy seems to be
of late upset with whatever kind of verdict he sees from the apologia debate slash discussion he had
and I don't know what the problem is. Kip Davis took a look and went,
I don't know what your ordeal is. He had to vocalize it on social media. I think even
apologia is a bit bewildered by what the heck did I say or do. He isn't even sure. So anyway,
Jonathan comes out swinging and who's he swing at? Dennis R. McDonald and his crazy hypothesis
that the authors who wrote in Greek in the first century, Gospel of Mark, Matthew, Lou,
Axe and John are using or at least mimicking imitating Greek poetry. Scholars have long known
that they're imitating the LXX, the Hebrew scriptures. Really, it's not Hebrew, but
you get the point, Old Testament. And when they did this, it's pretty clear because they say stuff
like it is written. But what about those passages where it doesn't say it is written, but we look
and go, it looks like he's modeling after Elijah, Elisha, or looks like he's modeling after Moses
or something to that sort. Well, we already know that it is written, references to the Septuagint,
give us the credence to say, yeah, it's imitating that literature. But did you know that Virgil's
Aeneid doesn't ever reference the Odyssey or the Iliad of Homer? Yet all classicists are aware
it's imitating it and it's rewriting a narrative using its structure. Never once does it say,
hey, I got this from the Odyssey. Hey, it is written in the Iliad. Never. However,
its format, its structure, and many of its narratives are rewrites of what we find there.
This is how you would write stories. In fact, if you learned Greek in the first century, which
Matthew, Luke, Mark, John, they would have had to learn Homer's Odyssey and the Iliad.
This was part of the process. The real question is, are they imitating? Is there something in
these gospels that is showing imitation and narrative structure from what they learned,
which is the Odyssey and the Iliad? I say, yeah, and Dennis McDonald does as well, but it's super
crazy to someone who might actually think that these gospels are literal actual verbatim history
of what actually occurred. God forbid these texts are imitating Greek novels or Greek poetry in
any way, because that might stunt that whole historical reliability of what we're reading
in these texts. They have this undesigned coincidence paradigm or hypothesis,
and everything seems to fit it. If you find anyone who follows the undesigned coincidence
thing, you know that that's Eric Manning, Jonathan McClatchy, pretty much anyone who's in the
McGrew camp, they use this undesigned coincidence in order to further the historical reliability
and trustworthiness of the gospels. So much so that they actually attack those who are minimal,
minimalist on the historicity of Jesus' resurrection and what is the case historically
with these events. They go after those guys, so they got enough work on their own arguing
amongst themselves, but I figure I jab in just to give two cents, and I understand there's a lot
more depth and nuance to what I'm saying here when it comes to the undesigned coincidence
hypothesis. But in no way do they even say that Matthew and Luke don't know Mark. So the idea
that something is undesigned when a literary author is aware of the other author's work,
that seems like you can't rule out that they're undesigned. You have to assume that the most
probable is that it actually may be designed. I don't see how one can say it's undesigned
when that author knows the other author's work. The real question is, do they have the liberty
in their rewriting of the work using certain text to do something different with it? And I think
differences throw those who have undesigned coincidence models out, throw them for a loop.
Another problem is Luke acts. When you look at acts, they want the historical reliability of
this text to be so true, and they don't want Luke acts to know Paul. They don't want that book acts
to know Paul's letters. However, I stick with Pervo on this, the Hermione commentary on acts,
and I also would go to Shelley Matthews and other academics who write on this. As you well know,
there are several academics who take serious the notion that acts is aware of Josephus's writings,
at least some of them. Now, that's an interesting point, but also they admit, well, acts knows Paul's
letters. And in acts 27 and 28, the shipwreck narrative, for example, you have Eric Manning's
video that goes into this historical depth of trying to show the geographical locations
of they landed on this island and that island and the storm dragged them here and here. And it's
so reliable, like how could they not know unless they were there? Well, in the Hermione commentary
on acts, Pervo goes into extensive detail, and there are so many possibilities in explaining what's
going on here that I would hope anyone reading it would realize we don't really know in many ways.
We don't really know. Pervo writes, of course, very thoroughly in his own book on acts that isn't
the commentary and really tells you his position on this, that it's a novel fiction. And the author
in acts is going from like first person, plurals, and then knows like from an unanticipated eye to
back to Paul and then knows exactly the voices of other figures that are going on.
You got to read the commentary. It's very, very, very in the weeds. And it tells you,
is this the same author who's interpolating in his own text later ideas or other authors that
are interpolating? What about the detext of acts from the Bezai tradition that literally has like
6.5 to 8.3% more material in it than what we read in our book of acts? Like we don't even know
what really goes back. And of course, textual critics like Bart Ehrman actually make the point,
for example, in some traditions, where a homeless man approaches, the beggar approaches Jesus and
gets angry. In some of the other traditions, he's not. He shows him compassion and kindness.
But in this tradition, he shows anger. Bart thinks this goes back to an earlier text. It's just too
embarrassing. Did scribes change it in order to make Jesus more compassionate and kind because he
was angry in this other one? Bart thinks so. Here's a textual critic. Other academics might say,
I don't agree. I think that that textual tradition is late. There's so much to consider about the
detext because there's an earlier Latin manuscript that attests to something earlier. And some scholars
think they added in more material to the detext. There's a lot of textual tradition to consider.
But McClatchy and Crue think that if you can find something in acts and then guess what? It somehow
corroborates with the epistles or the pastoral letters or Paul's own words, right? Then it's
proven. Paul spins five words. Literally, I wrote this down while going back over the commentary,
the Hermione commentary. Paul says five words about three shipwrecks, five words in 2 Corinthians 11-25.
In acts, it's like 760-something words about one shipwreck. They really want to specify and go in
all this detail. And of course, Perba points out, there's several possibilities here. Reading back
into Homer, he mentions that in his commentary. Now, unless you want to say Richard Perbo wasn't a
really actual good academic on writing on acts like he didn't know what he was talking about,
I guess you could do that. Then I guess Shelly Matthews would also fit into that category.
We can keep on adding to the list. I think it's, you don't like the scholars we have and you think
they're trash. You say the very least, at least under Mike Winger's post. You literally tell them,
let's take out the trash, right? And that tells you what you think about the scholars that we
have on myth vision. Wednesday, I'm interviewing Dennis McDonald to address the critics of his
position. Several critics, not several, but four or five total, have ever really engaged with his
work. Adam Nguyen, we have Carl Olaf, Sanchez, we have Miss Mitchell's, and I know Litwa has written,
but Litwa doesn't like totally disagree with Dennis on the fact that the Greek and Roman world
are impacting these authors and their Hellenized literature in the way they're writing. He just
thinks it's in the air. I agree with Dennis on this. Josephus has a shipwreck and he spends 62
words. And of course, he has a divine providence that helps rescue him in this shipwreck narrative.
But I think that's pretty interesting to consider that you have to go through this long,
elaborated narrative and ask Paul spends five words mentioning three shipwrecks. Is it true he
went through three shipwrecks? Maybe. Maybe not. Maybe he's flexing because in that passage, he is
kind of saying like, I've been through this and I've been through that and I've done this and I've
done that. Who knows? It's like locker room talk. Yeah, one time I lifted 555 pounds. How about that?
And he's doing it to kind of give more clout to him and his message so they take him seriously.
He's wanting to be taken serious as an apostle because oftentimes he's not being taken seriously.
Remember, he doesn't lie because he said so. Now, when we're looking at acts, I want to encourage
people who think that, you know, well, what's McClatchy have to say about this? Go read some
of the scholars who've written hermenean commentaries, the serious academics who talk about
this stuff because I don't see any of these commentaries talking about the undesigned
coincidence as if this somehow validates the whole miraculous narrative of the story.
That's a whole other thing. Like, suppose I grant that these go back to eyewitnesses.
McClatchy literally did a video talking about these go back to eyewitness testimony
and here's what he had to say. So he talks about eyewitnesses are credible.
What? Eyewitnesses are credible. Like, this is an interesting thing. Like, if you had a
contemporary eyewitness to something who said they saw something, if they said they saw aliens,
if they said they saw this, eyewitnesses doesn't equal credible, but you just assumed it means
credible. You talk about the wee passages. This somehow validates the strength of this
actually being written by the companion of Paul. Now, you want to go to showing how, oh,
this corroborates. Look at the pastorals. Look at Paul's letters. However, I'm looking at the wee
passages and this is what I find right here in the Odyssey. I find that the wee passages are also in
this narrative and so does Richard Pervo and other academics who've written on the commentaries.
Like, they know about acts. They've written in depth on this and there's a big tradition of
academics have differing opinions on what is historically reliable or not about acts. Most
of the consensus thinks he's got titles, correct? Names of people, correct? Like, their positions
and such? Cool. And in some cases, there are things he gets wrong. That's why I'm saying
I'm enjoying the commentary by Pervo. The bewitching queen of Aea. We reached the Aeolian island next,
the home of Aeolus. Hippotus, son, beloved by the gods who never die. A great floating island it
was and rounded all huge ramparts rise of indestructible bronze and sheer rock cliffs shoot
up from sea to sky. The king had sired 12 children within his halls, six daughters and six sons
in the lusty prime of youth. So he gave his daughters as wives to his six sons seated beside
their dear father and doting mother. With delicacies of plenty spread before them, they feast on forever.
All day long, the halls breathe the savior of roasted meats and echo round to the low moan
of blowing pipes. All night long, each one by his faithful mate. They sleep under soft piled rugs
on courted bedsteads. To this city of theirs we came. Their splendid palace in Aeolus hosted me
one entire month. He pressed me for news of Troy and the Argyve ships and how we sell for home.
And I told him for the whole long story first to last. And then when I begged him to send me on my
way, he denied me nothing. He went about my passage. He gave me a sack, the skin of a full grown ox
binding inside the winds that howl from every quarter for Zeus had made that king the master
of all the winds with power to calm them down or rouse them as he pleased. Aeolus stowed the sack
inside my holds lash so fast with a burnished silver cord. Not even a slight puff could slip
past that knot. Yet he set the west wind free to blow us our way and waft our squadron home.
But his plan was bound to fail. Yes, our own reckless folly swept us on to ruin.
Nine whole days we sailed, we sailed. Nine nights nonstop on the tenth our own land
hoeve into sight at last. My point is this is a fictional poetry, right? There are places in here
that are geographical locations around the Mediterranean near Greece, etc. And those places
are real. Some figures actually may be historical from the Odyssey and the Iliad. And it may not
be, I would say Axe has more history in it, even though it's highly fictionalized in my opinion.
And it's not just my opinion. These are academics, serious academics. But I want to make the point
that we passages does nothing but tell a story. It doesn't prove that this guy's really with them.
The whole grind of trying to make this whole thing absolutely historical, reliable, etc.
I mean, even underneath it, if they were writing a novel fiction or exaggerating about the storm
narrative, there could have been a shipwreck that this is actually narrating. There's no way to prove
it wasn't. But if you're being critical and you're examining these things, MythVision wants to bring
you that side of the scholarship. This is the side of the scholarship that the apologists like
McClatchy think are trash. And they want to take the trash out. Well, guess what? I'm going to roll
out all the trash I can all over the internet. And because they want to see this silenced,
they want to see this stunted, they don't want this academic stuff to go far and wide,
I ask you, the viewer, to please participate whenever we want to sell some of these books
for the scholars, get their work so you can educate yourself and give the scholars we have
the praise they deserve, because what they're doing isn't trash. They're doing their damnedest to be
as honest historically and give you the facts about the situation as possible. They're not
axe grinding to make this stuff true, to try and sit here and feed you that you must believe this
or else. Do you know the consequences of this? If you don't believe, you better believe now or else.
No. We don't do that here at MythVision. We let you make your own mind up. And if you believe at
the end of the day, hey, you believe. If you don't, hey, you don't believe. And that's fine.
Let's talk about scholarship. Let's dive into the material and let's stop being triggered
about this whole conversation. Only someone who needs this narrative to be true would do this.
And that being said, McClatchy, calm down, man. It's not that serious.
