He apologizes for the way he predicted it, but then he predicts six months from now the real thing
This guy isn't really apologizing where he said I am 99% sure. I am I am a hundred percent sure
He's pretty much saying this is it, right? They all do this. They all do this
Like how many pestilences plagues wars rumors of wars have to come
For them to still keep using these outdated texts and books
Final part of the final part of the final part of the last day of the last very little final part
Welcome family and friends. We
are
Myth vision
If you have made it into this room, you're safe
Don't worry all of the gods that will come during the soon to come if you will rapture
You guys are protected from them. They're not going to take you. I promise you
The Lambert of God has come to take away the cognitive dissonance of the world
You don't have to worry about a damn thing
We're gonna have fun today. We're gonna have a lot of fun today. We're gonna listen to some of these, uh, wild preachers who've
man
Let me say this up front. I have to emphasize
These people that are making these predictions
Are seriously
sincere
I'm not
discrediting their sincerity
They're sincerely wrong
And you guys will see that as the show unfolds and as we talk about eschatology
Some of the things I had to discover on my own as a christian
I went from this little
charismatic
Really, I spoke in tongues as you guys see I do all the time on the channel now. How about I got you?
But I got a lot of love you know what I mean? I do that all the time
I spoke in tongues and thought I was really speaking the language of angels
You know, I was literally like having this private conversation with god and all that
But I really believed in prophecy. I laid on up hands. We were casting up demons and I'd have dreams about the end
I'm gonna tell you guys two of those dreams that I remember. I'm sure I've had more and just don't remember
As you guys are trickling in love you guys. Thank you for tuning in
I'm gonna get to your guys's comments and stuff if you want to ask questions feel free
Um, if you want to super chat questions, I will be able to see those much easier
But we're gonna be hanging out and having fun talking about the end. So
Here's two of my dreams. I'm giving you these are real dreams that I really had. I'm not making this up
Just to be funny and to poke holes in christianity
the first dream
There was a girl that lived right around the corner named
Rachel and growing up we were kids and you know, we would like play truth or dare
We'd go down the street play how to go seek or build little ramps in the back of the neighborhood in the woods
And we'd take our bicycles and ramp over anyway. I grew up with them
And I had this dream that I was standing in a field
And all of the sky turned into flames fire all over the sky
And I knew why did I know that this was the end?
I have like i'm a bible-believing christian who's going to church who's really listening to these pastors preach and talk about how the end
Is coming and the rapture soon and i'm looking up all this fires covered in the sky
And I looked down at her and she said what the hell?
And when she said that as a christian I used to tell this story to people
I'd say what the he double hockey sticks. I didn't even want to use the word hell
I was like that word might mean a curse word and I don't want to be cursed because I took curse words
To mean literally you're cursing yourself. That's how superstitious I was
at the time I grew out of it a lot as time went on but
still was in the bubble of christianity
And the flames started to come down to the earth and in the distance
They hit the ground and they were coming or coming at me
They were coming at me as it was coming at me. I closed my eyes and went
jesus
Like I really jesus and then I I remember feeling warm like is that the flames and I felt like a child and it's
And it's mother's womb if you will and the bosom and I felt comfort and I looked and there was this man
At this table with a feathered pin
Got to be a feathered pin and this big book reminded me of the book of life
And he said derrick. He didn't look at me. His head was turned away and he was like
derrick
Everything's gonna be okay
And boom I woke up. I woke up and I was I was crying
I thought this was it and I and I literally would tell people that the second dream
Was I was sitting on the front porch of the house I live at right now
And it was a thunderstorm
Lightning was striking sometimes when we were younger we'd sit on the porch and we'd watch the thunderstorms
It was sometimes peaceful, but also like I don't know
We just like to watch the the storm outside, especially lightning in the sky
And the lightning bolt literally struck me
And it like struck me right here my my solar plexus if you will and it started to suck me up into heaven
And I was looking around and I saw all of these other people
That were being like floated up attached to lightning bolts in the heavens and I knew I was like
This is the rapture
This is it
And I woke up again and I would tell my wife this story and the sad thing is I think I caused some trauma there
Because she started having dreams that her and my brother got left behind and I was taken
Because I was so serious and so devout and all about knowing the truth and preaching it and telling my family about god and
Trying to convince everybody that this is the end you guys get ready get ready. It's about to happen
I was super hype about it
and my wife would have these dreams that god left her
Or like he would be taking me up and I'd try to grab her hand, but I couldn't bring her with me
so she would freak out
And she just didn't know if she was devout enough or if god, you know saw her as if she was really god's child that kind of stuff
So this whole end of times thing isn't just an ordeal that christians sincerely believe it also creates serious division
It's a serious divider
Because hey, are you gonna go or are you gonna be one of those left behind?
Right like the christians would teach
I started to exit all of these ideas
And I became an a millennialist someone who started to interpret things more allegorical
Not literally there's a bible verse and I remember reading a case for a millennialism a bible verse that says
god is the god
Of a cattle on a thousand hills and I said, huh
What if there's a thousand in one hills is he the god of them on that hill?
Well, yeah, yeah, he's just the point is he's just god. He's god of all gods right as a christian. That's what you're thinking
So you don't limit god. It's just a number
Designating how much like a big number saying just all the cattle god is the god of all cattle of all things if you will
That was what we started to learn when you look at a millennialism. So we weren't taking things absolutely literal
I became a presbyterian. I'm literally cutting so many years into this
I'm more serious about trying to understand the bible and history and things like that
So I became a presbyterian. I'm an a millennialist and I came across
partial preterism
Kenneth gentry gary demar
Um, rc. Sproul. I was a big reformed guy. I was a Calvinist. So by this time I'm reading the bible
Trying to really understand what is being said
And as I did I started realizing hold on some of this stuff should have happened back then
Some of it was supposed to happen back then but some of it's meant for the future
Or so I thought
I thought some of this stuff was meant for our time
So I would try to read the times and say it's about us
Man
Was I wrong? I didn't know what I was looking into and here's a funny thing
I'll leave you with before we play the first clip. I want to see some of you guys
This right here is a book by del C. Allison jr.
Del at the end of the day is a christian and he's not your typical christian
But he's a christian who admits
that the end
Did not come and it failed
It failed now. I personally i'm not talking crap. I mean del's a wonderful guy
I've got a ton of interviews with him
But in my head I thought how can one remain a christian and believe in jesus
When his predictions if he predicted that the soon end was coming like john dominant crossing
You know barter and everyone else says that if there was a historical jesus or a man there behind all the myth
He was saying as an apocalyptic creature the end is nigh just like the dead sea scrolls just like other
You know
Movements with this idea
How could I think this guy was even god or that he really was who he says he was
When there's an old testament passage talking about if a prophet predicts that something comes to pass and it doesn't
You should kill them. I mean they're deserving of death
That's the idea at least whether they practice that or not the point is
What am I to believe if what you say is supposed to happen doesn't happen
And christians still think it's going to let me get your comments here. Let me catch up on you guys
A lot of a lot of stuff going on. Oh my speaking in tongues. How am I going to see that?
Did I raise the dead
I've I I guess
Yeah
Yeah, send me your tides
No, I obviously haven't and I used to act like this was stuff still going on today
Didn't know gibberish was a language language of the angels
Language of the angels. Let's see
German russian
Yeah, a lot of christians want to interpret speaking in tongues and paul to imply
Another actual human language that people interpret
And they do that because they interpret acts
They're looking at the acts of the apostles and they're taking that as an interpretation
To the idea that oh, these are you know languages that people spoke because acts implies that
But a lot of scholars that have talked to are saying that's not what's going on in paul
What paul's talking about with speaking in tongues is more akin to something like
I guess you can say the sibling oracles where there's literal gibberish taking place within these types of camps and people are
Kind of going into an ecstatic state
And this is implied by the fact that many people who are there in acts are listening going are they drunk?
You know like what's going on or what why are they speaking like this? Are they drunk speaking gibberish?
So there's kind of an indication
Though I think acts is trying to reverse the tower of babble
I think there's kind of this indication where it's harping off the dividing of tongues in the tower of babble
Where they all spoke in confusing language while they're not confused anymore
The gospels being preached clearly to them in their own tongue. That's what I think is going on in that myth
Real quick super chat tux tv says I've had a vision of sfm
fsm making me feel like I got this
Was non-verbally communicated
Thank you for that super chat my friend. I appreciate it. I'm gonna show you guys something here
and uh
You guys might get a crack out of this. Let's see what we got
I am absolutely convinced. I'm I'm 62 years of age. I've been preaching for 46 years
Uh, and I'm not saying this in a boasting way, but we probably have well over between 172 to about 175 thousand hours
Literally in study. That's reading studying words. I want you guys to notice the $50 in the bottom left, right?
This guy is like I am so serious. Oh my god
I'm I am this serious get ready. You see that little 50 in the left the bottom right hand corner for him
Left hand corner for us and this whole here's the p.o. Box. Send your money count me in jubilee club
All right, here we go these research reading books and that's non-exaggeration
Because since I was 16 years of age, uh, I would go four hours than eight damn
It went from 50 to 100
Just like that. Look at that. Hallelujah. Praise. How much?
And sometimes 10 to 12 hours a day. My staff knows I'm telling you the fact. That's what I do
Okay
He's having to he's having to convince you of how seriously
intelligent he is on his research of the bible
That is amazing. Hallelujah. Check it out
and uh in in the process of
Okay, okay, so the hundred hit and they were like look
That didn't work if you have any money. Do you see that any money? Send me some money
I am 100 not 99 and a half
That we have literally entered the last of the last days the time of the end
Okay, okay
that that that concludes my sharing of this particular gentleman and he is
100 convinced
All that that we are living in the final last part of the last hour of the last minute of the last second of the last days
Of the last days of the last second of the last minute
Of the last day of the last second. Okay, you get what I'm doing. I'm joking. The point is they're going to do this
For thousands of more years if this ideology continues if these things keep going
They're going to scare little granny and grandpa's and people at home sitting on their little, you know
Chair at home worried about their grandbabies sending money to these people
Hoping that they're going to make it into heaven. My wife's calling. Hold on one second
Hey princess you're live on youtube
Say hello to everybody
Hi
Well, I figure you called me twice, huh, I can't get the bathroom door open sometimes wrong. Uh-oh
Sorry, I didn't know you weren't alive, but um, okay. Well
You need me to open up the bathroom door. That's what you're saying
Oh, man
Ladies and gentlemen, is it?
I know let me ask. Well, let me think is it just locked or something on the inside
I don't know you are the last one in there and I guess you closed it too hard. I can't open it at all
It wore him too weak. Everybody pray right now that the door unlocks
Okay, um, I guess I can run inside real quick
And try and open up the door. We've got a super chat here a couple super chats. I don't want to miss
Uh, we got one right here. Let me read it to you, honey. Excuse me, but is the name. Thank you so much for the super chat
Sunday offering habits are hard to break. Hallelujah. Thank you so much. I appreciate you young lady
Many blessings will come and pour upon you. Yes. Amen. No, seriously. Thank you for the super chat
What'd they say it used to 10 fold and combine and multiply and give you 10 times whatever you give
Yeah, that's coming your way
Mr. Monster said I believe earth has been around for billions of years and will continue to exist for billions more
With or without humans on its surface. I think you're probably right unless some crazy
Ash like huge cataclysmic event takes place
But I think I think you're right and the whole predictions that that christians make are definitely
They flop on their face
I think it's interesting that mayans have these kind of predictions as well
Cataclysmans and things like that
Let me go open up the door for my wonderful wife so that I can actually stay married
Ladies and gentlemen because that could end and that would be a real prediction
That's possible and ping was forced to apologize when he said the world was going to end on may the 21st
Because it didn't people want me to apologize. I can apologize. Yes. I did not have it
All of that worked out
As accurately as I should have or I wish I could have had it
But his apology was a little hollow. Okay. Yeah, so that he's going to go into this
He apologizes for the way he predicted it, but then he predicts six months from now the real thing
This guy isn't really apologizing
So cognitive dissonance is still there. Let's see what he's what do you say?
He claimed he was a mere five months out and that his may predictions in fact marked a spiritual end
It was to be understood spiritually not uh, not
Uh, physically physically, but now the 90 year old's new apocalyptic date is upon us and camp. Oh my gosh
It doesn't stop. Oh, uh, it didn't happen literally. Um, let's make it, uh, invisible
And then no one can say it didn't happen. I'm gonna read a few things
Unfulfilled Christian religious predictions looked this up earlier and I thought let's go through a few of these type of
scenarios
You have adventism. Millerism, right? I'm gonna read this because I think a lot of people who haven't really investigated
Prophecy and things have never considered this
Millerism adventism has its roots in the teaching of a Baptist preacher by the name
William Miller
He first predicted the second advent of Jesus Christ would occur before March 21st
1844
When this date passed a new date was predicted
April 18th
1844 again the date passed and another millerite samuel s snow
derived the date of october the 22nd
1844 the non-fulfillment of these predictions has been named the millerite
millerite great disappointment
Anabaptist church this gets interesting because right here
We're not talking about the 1800s where we know there's a lot of crazy people in the burnover district of uh, new york
But certain anabaptist of the early 16th century believed that the millennium would occur in 1533
Another source reports when the prophecy failed the anabaptist became more zealous
So when it failed
They didn't go, you know, we were we were wrong. Maybe what we believe isn't true
They became more zealous and claimed that two witnesses enoch and elijah had come in the form of jan
Mathis and jan bachelsen
They would set up the new jerusalem in monster
Monster became a frightening dictatorship under bachelsen's control although all lutherans and cath
Catholics were expelled from that city the millennium never came
Hmm, so that's what cognitive dissonance is
When
Something conflicts with your ideas and you're doubling down so to speak you're you're not able to see
This is not true
I need to change what I believe not. I need to change the date. I need to just adjust some of what I believe
No, there's something wrong with this belief called christianity
If it has apocalyptic roots
Sure, take the morals if you like it
Use that but get rid of all of this other nonsense the superstition that people keep failing to to see isn't going to happen
The anglican church it talks about here
Who made a relevant prediction edwin sandys and 15 19 to 1588?
I guess it's when he was born and died archbishop of york
And primate of england was born in Lancaster sandy says now as we know
Not the day and time so let us be assured that this coming of the lord is near
He is not slack
This is biblical language as we do count slackness
Second peter three that is at hand
It may be probably gathered out of the scriptures in diverse places the signs mentioned by christ in the gospel
Which should be the four shit the four shuers of this terrible day are almost all fulfilled
Uh, we're we're living in the last minute of the last hour of the last day of the last minute
This is what they were doing in 1500
I mean it goes on and on calvary chapel edward erving family radio jehovah's witnesses
We already did a little bit, but there's so much their whole thing is jacked up. I mean they can't let it go
They they're thinking well if we let that go we literally destroyed our entire movement because it's built off apocalyptic predictions
Lutheran church and so is christianity by the way. Sure. They defend apocalypticism at times
But it's built off that
Latter-day saints
Mennonites montanist and the montanist groups actually quite interesting
Let me see if I could find where is this? This is so here's montanism
Just an image of I guess some type of montanist
And it says montanism a second century schismatic movement of christianity
began in frigga
Modern turkey based on the visions of montanist who claimed to speak under the influence of the spirit
Montanist believed the second coming of christ to be imminent
Many christian communities were almost abandoned when believers left their homes
Same thing that happened here herald camping and migrated to a plane between two villages of papusa and timion in fight and frigga
Where montanist claimed the heavenly jerusalem
Would descend to earth
wow
Interesting
Another failed prediction in the second century. Let me see we got a super chat here
Try to pay attention to everybody here constellation pegasus hallelujah
check
6a6 evidently you can prove demons exist
And with that with that god judaism is weird the babaloonian town would evidently jews believe in
I don't uh
Have this particular passage. Can you comment? Is it like a long thing or something or
If you can send me that comment. I would be happy to read it. Um, I don't have that pulled up right now though, so
People believe in weird stuff this whole book right here
um is
Written in the 70s 80s and it's about when cognitive dissonance kicks in from failed predictions
but specifically
Hebrew bible old testament prophet predictions that didn't happen
Like the northern lost tribes of isra were supposed to come back when the babaloonian exile was over and they came back under cyrus the great
When they didn't come back
Well, there's always
Some group that says well, it's going to happen, but it's still future
Jeremiah says 70 years daniel the angel gabriel comes on as well. It means 70 weeks of years
And and then it just pushes off it always something keeps pushing it off
So this stems out of judaism, you know, this
Idea is not original to christianity
I just like to poke holes in my own position that I once held to
And finding out all this stuff really is mind boggling. So thank you for that super chat my friend
seriously appreciate it
all right next next, uh
Next failed idea, I guess you could say
Let me exit that exit that
All right church fathers. So this I thought would be interesting
Is getting into some of the early church fathers who actually were thinking the end was near they're making cases for why
And there there's this real problem that starts to take place around the third and fourth century
Where they're not taking things at face value, but they're allegorizing
They're kind of trying to do an interpretation like origin and they're becoming a millennialist
So they're starting to allegorize the meanings and well, we might have got that wrong
But it wasn't everyone that interpreted things like this eschatology was not
A uniform idea. It wasn't homogenous across the entire church, you know
Fathers if you will they didn't all think the same way about the end
So I just looked this up and was starting to read and it goes on about since the prophets and blessed be and
You know, these are church fathers who are writing and pretty long
If you could use my terms excuse for why it hasn't happened yet and how it's still going to happen
Sometimes soon we just we don't understand what the word soon means
You know soon soon doesn't mean it's soon. It just means whatever we want to make it mean
Like thousands of years
Hippolytus of Rome
is another person I think is
doing this prediction
And if i'm not mistaken one of the more says is one of the most important second third century christian theologians
Whose provenance identity and corpus remain elusive to scholars and historians suggest the communities inside palestine egypt and atolia
Rome and regions of the middle east
All right, so he's a historian
Where's his predictions?
eschatology
Hippolytus is an important figure in the development of christian eschatology and his biblical
Compendium and topical study on christ and the antichrist and his commentary on the prophet daniel
Hippolytus gave his interpretation the second advent of christ with the onset of
Persecutions during the reign of sepaminate. What is that sepatimus?
serverus many early christian writers treated topics of apocalyptic eschatology on christ and antichrist is one of the earliest works
It is thought hippolytus was generally influenced by iranaeus however
Unlike iranaeus hippolytus focused on the meaning of prophecy for the church in his own time
Of the dogmatic works on christ and the antichrist survives in complete state and was probably written about 202
I mean they're they're doing this in the second century and we know iranaeus
So this is the interesting thing we learned from elaine pagels
doctor elaine pagels talks about how
The book of revelation this author
John whoever this guy was
If he actually is the one who wrote the whole book because some scholars think that the first chapter might have been inserted
Uh, there might have been like bookends inserted and the middle was written by the people
There's various scholars with different opinions
But she said that they saw this book as a heretical text
This was not written by
Someone they deemed iranaeus and such deemed as good
But during iranaeus's time
There was a friend of his or two that were persecuted
I don't know the history very well. So don't mark my word on the details, but ultimately
Rome was using these gladiator warriors in combat in the gladiator ring if you will in the coliseum
They were very expensive
So someone I don't know their name. I can't remember she mentioned this in one of the videos that I interviewed her in
Is writing the emperor saying look, what if we use criminals?
What if we have convicted criminals? Can we put them in the gladiator ring?
And have them, you know be eaten by lions and such like that
And the roman emperors like as long as they're convicted criminals and they're criminals
Then sure
Well christians who didn't bend the knee to emperors and caesars if you will that weren't willing to kind of recant their faith
Being these strict literal believers in jesus christ
They were even called atheists because they didn't have these idols that represented their god
That didn't mean they didn't believe in any god
But if you didn't have an image of your god, you didn't really have a god according to a lot of these people in antiquity
And what happened was they started throwing them in the ring
They threw them in these gladiator rings and iranaeus is reading revelation
Seeing this like bloody bath of like beheaded heads beneath the throne crying. Oh, how long oh lord
Will you not vindicate us? Will you take vengeance? Okay? This is the idea in revelation
So iranaeus is going well. He's supposedly a heretic
But this sounds like what we're going through right now
And if you talk to christians today and they read their newspaper or with covet going on or the president elections you name it
This sounds like the end revelations talking about us now when it says locus. It's helicopters, you know
The interpretations can go on add infinitum
But the bottom line is iranaeus reinterprets revelation to his own time
Then athenatius does the same thing and he interprets it differently than iranaeus and he says this is for us
This is what has happened over and over and over
That's why my thumbnail is like this
It's like
When you actually seriously investigate this whole thing
Cognitive distance has to kick in for someone who believes this to be literally true or it's going to actually happen in our future
And you're gonna see some bible verses that back this up
They will find a way to say you just didn't read the right church father
That church father got it right or this guy got it right or we just go with the church magisterium
We don't go with the text because they need to interpret what the text says
Or we need to stick with the text because the text is what we trust and not the magisterium that are made up of men
It goes on and on
I am absolutely convinced. I'm 62 years of age. I've been preaching for 46 years
Uh, and I'm not saying this in a boasting way, but we probably have well over between 172 to about 175 thousand hours
Literally in study. That's reading studying
So pretty much what he's saying is he has a hundred and like 70 000 hours of
Of studying within his bubble
That's for sure
Word studies research reading books and that's not an exaggeration because since I was 16 years of age
Uh, I would go four hours than eight hours and sometimes 10 to 12 hours a day. My staff knows. I'm telling you the fact
that's what I do
and uh
And you know, I I this is the thing the bible exaggerates numbers. I I personally still call bs
I I know
You probably might go derrick. There's no point. Why would you call bs on him saying that's how many hours he
studied
You honestly think this guy's doing that every single day all day. That's all he's doing. Um
I there's got to be sick weeks. There's got to be months where he did different things
I just have a hard time believing he did it every day. Maybe i'm wrong. Okay. I openly say maybe i'm wrong
but
He's definitely reading within his own little cherry pick bubble the process of the study and the research
I am 100 not 99 and a half
That we have literally entered the last of the last days
The time of the end
Okay
That right there that confidence that he just had
Where he said I am 99
Sure, I am I am a hundred percent sure. He's pretty much saying this is it, right? They all do this. They all do this
That shows me how
Wrong, this guy is that shows me
How he has not actually studied the correct things. He has not really looked at them
I'm gonna play one more thing. I want to show you guys why I know what he's saying
You can go ahead and just say bull bs. Okay. I'm gonna show you this
Now we're doing the final part. This is the jw's here and then I got to get this super chat always coming through with love
Stop that share share
Here we are. All right
This guy right here
The spread of this disease is distressing
to be sure
But we're really not surprised to see the world in the grip of such pestilence
Are we
And I've said this earlier like seriously
Like how many pestilences plagues
Wars rumors of wars have to come
For them to still keep using these outdated texts and books
Jesus made it clear
At luke 21 11
That pestilence would be part of the sign of the last days
And in revelation chapter 6 the ride of the fourth horseman
Includes mention
of deadly plague
So the events unfolding around us
Just to keep in mind i'm pausing it for the sake of them not trying to ding me on youtube
If you play it non-stop, they might try to act like you're using my material and this and this and that
I'm pausing it here just for the sake of that
Or making clear
than ever
That we're living in the final part of the last days
Undoubtedly the final part of the final part of the last days a final part of the shortly before
The last day of the last days
The final part of the final part of the final part of the last day of the last day of the final part like
This is exactly what i'm doing today. So
