me? That is, we're live, MythVision podcast, Derek Lambert, your host, Dr. Joshua Bowen,
a seriologist, understands the ancient Near East and its cultural historical context.
Welcome back to MythVision. Thank you. And I guess it's highly debated now,
you know, whether or not I know all about this topic. So, you know, since you're not an expert
in every single subject of everything that's discussed in the ancient Near East,
anything you have to say about something that you don't have your three-letter credentials behind,
you're just full of it. And so, and here's the thing, Derek, I mean, like, and I think you and I
know this quite well, we don't have the indwelling Holy Spirit to guide us. So, even if we did have
all those PhDs in all the different fields, it wouldn't matter. Right. And in fact, only those
that have the Holy Spirit, that's really all they need. So, it's, wow. You know, as hard as it is
to read all these works, like your book, The Old Testament Endorses Slavery, your second edition,
which is a pretty good size book. What I like about it is something the reviewer that we were
pointing out that wants to see you fell, didn't care about is that how I can read this. I can
actually read the words and I'm like, okay, this is actually really clean. And it's easy to see.
I mean, the page, you know, you can actually read what you're, what you're looking at. And you're
not like the book I'm reading right now upstairs. I don't have it down here. It's another scholarly
book, the fine print. I'm how I'm squinting to try and wrap my head around. But you're pretty much
telling me to go back, get the Holy Ghost, and I won't even need to get educated. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
I wouldn't do all that reading all that book learning, Bibles in English. So, you know,
this is true. Look, since we're on it, I think it's fair that we give our audience
something to really understand. If you haven't heard the voice of God, all right, he reads the book
for you. So please let's help Dr. Joshua Bohm. We got somebody who I would say is some form of an
apologist that drops a negative review. And I don't care who you are. I mean, maybe, maybe if you
have no heart, you're going to get upset. The hard work you put in when someone misrepresents
or tries to just attack your work and bring what you do down. But let's hear God for just one second.
Disconnect between academics and many online apologists. On the one hand, we can read about
what experts in the field of biblical and ancient Near Eastern studies say about topics like slavery
and the laws of the Old Testament. On the other hand, we can see what is actually debated on social
media, YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, etc. In my experience, much, if not most, of the scholarly
research that has been done on this topic does not effectively make its way out of the proverbial
ivory tower. And people got on to me about this, Dr. Josh. I said ivory tower. Someone was upset
about it. And they're like, you know, in a comment. And I think another person wanted to correct and
say, no, no, no, he's not. I'm not meaning anything bad by it. But there's so much of this information.
Ronald Handel. I mean, we're talking about amazing scholars that know this stuff and they're dense,
not personal. But it's super hard to even understand some of it if you're not familiar with it.
So someone like you, I call you the mediator between God and man.
I feel like I've heard that somewhere before. Right now, I mean, come on, get the holy water
out, hum, my gosh, she, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my.
Seriously, though, you're doing something. You have a gift for it better than I do in the different
way. We all have our gift, the hand of the body of Christ does this and the feet. I stink. So I'll
just call myself the feet. And so I go and make video content where I try to take this very heavy,
hard hitting stuff that usually is in publications in dense monographs, books, etc. Chew it up and
then try to feed it to a general audience to make it popular. I wish more people knew this material.
I sincerely think if they did, they would either have a very mature faith, if they were someone
of faith, they would be, I couldn't, I couldn't see them being like strict, super conservative in
their particular faith. They would be much more broadened and mature and the walls and the barriers
between us and them, I don't think would be as strong because you start to broaden your
perspective in a way that, okay, I choose this particular faith. That's what I want. Or you might
end up being like someone like me or you or whatever that says, Hey, I don't personally believe,
respect your decision, but this is where we're at. Yeah. And here's the thing, like,
it's, it's, we only have 24 hours in a day, right? And so when you have scholars that are in the field
that have spent a decade in grad school, decade plus sometimes, trying to get trained in this
sometimes very narrow area of expertise. And their job is to, to go out there and to be the tip of
the spear, right? And to try to, to break new ground and to do new research and to push the
field forward. It's very difficult to take all of that new cutting edge research,
have time to do more and try to somehow turn around and make it user friendly. And so,
I mean, obviously scholars can do that and they, they, they, they, you know, try to take time to
do it. And it's an important thing in the field. But it's so helpful, I think, when people like you,
people like me, you know, I can take, of course, I know the material, but because I'm not in a
research facility where I have to be breaking new ground all the time, I can kind of slow down
and I can say, all right, I'm going to take this topic. I'm going to take in all the secondary
literature. I'm going to go to all the subject matter experts in the field and I'm going to
pull together in a useful resource, what it is they say about this topic and then present it
in a way that the interested non-specialist can, can engage with it. And then you have people that
come along and give it one star, you know, like kids today. I don't want to highlight too much
about it, but here's my encouragement for people who are watching. Get a copy. You can get it on
Audible. If you're trying to leave an Amazon review, I think you need a Kindle or a hardback
version. There's paperback too. Yeah. Do what? There's a paperback as well. Oh, paperback. But
that's what I have, the paperback. Yeah. And this is the, this is the hard cover. Got it. Okay. So
that's like your other ones. Yeah. The handbook, Atheist Handbook one. That's right. So let me
ask you this. Do you think that the reason he put the one star isn't just the topic of slavery,
but it's because you have Atheist on your title of your other book? Because if you read the review,
it seems he's like Atheist this and Atheist that. And it's like, hmm. Yeah. And I get it, right,
to be fair to him. I understand. The one positive thing that I will say about this gentleman is
that it does seem that at least he read like sections of it, right? I suspect that what he
did was sort of flip through the index and look for verses that, you know, he wanted to, but how
he may have read the whole thing. But the issue is that he is coming to this with theological
commitments, right? You read through the review, immediately you see things like Moses wrote the
Pentateuch, right? And the Exodus really happened. And, you know, these are presuppositions he's
walking into. So I get it. I get that the root, the problem is one, and I'm as guilty of this as
anybody. People don't buy books to leave reviews, right? They don't. They buy books to read them.
And I need to be better at it myself. But what happens, unfortunately, is sort of the bad news,
I guess, first is, you know, we put out sort of a, Megan put out a tweet, I think, several weeks
ago saying, hey, if you've purchased a copy of the book and you liked it, please consider like,
at least going and hitting the rating. If you can write a review that those are amazing,
they really help. Even a few sentences, one sentence, you know, something simple.
Like Josh is like super D-duper ugly, but he writes well, something like that. Yeah,
just as long as the stars reflect the positive. But unfortunately, as of like this afternoon,
there were only three ratings. And because his was one of the three, and it was a one star,
like it was down around three. This is the good news. Because just before we went live,
we saw that Matthew Munger, Dr. Matthew Munger had left his review, and it bumped it up like,
yeah, it's like a 3.8 just with that one review. So obviously, you know, my math is not strong,
but, you know, they won't obviously always make that big of a bump. But, you know, if you have
purchased it, and you did like it, please consider just going and clicking the stars. Because,
yeah, this sort of thing, people, unfortunately, will look at this and be like 3.8 stars, and
there are only four ratings. Gosh. A little disproportion. Yeah. Yes. All these fives and
then a one, all the way to one. And if you read the review, it keeps coming back to this idea that
like almost sounds like they think the Bible doesn't condone slavery that's chattel, that's
abusive, or that is potentially ugly. They almost look at it like it's a positive thing. And it
makes me wonder about this review, or like, do you think all ancient Near Eastern slavery was that
way? Yeah. It's weird. I'm applying a similar method that I do to Christians who believe Jesus
rose from the dead in the miracles in the New Testament are true. And usually, the arguments
start with historical reliability of people, places and things. Somehow we know this place
existed. Somehow this guy ruled the axe gets correct and or whatever it might be. Therefore,
handkerchiefs rose people from the dead or guys walked on water or tombs were opened and really
people were alive. These kind of things. And it's like, okay, if you're going to apply that worldview,
supernatural stuff's true. Same kind of claims for centuries prior to the New Testament about men
and women, of course, in the Greek world, too. Apotheosis tells the whole night. We need to
take those serious and consider that maybe they did rise, maybe their gods are true and real as
well. Why do you cut it off from there? And it's not consistent. I think that's what we're seeing
here with the review that was negative, is that they want to get down and nitpick and try and show
there's some issue that you're not seeing or you're not accepting or this and that. And the question
is, does the Old Testament endorse slavery? Yeah. And this, like, it's difficult. I think this is
sort of the other insidious point of our characteristic aspect, whatever, of a review like
this, is that it seems if you're not in the field or if you haven't read through the literature,
he's citing page numbers. He's citing other scholars. And this is one of these things that if
you don't know, you might read it and go, well, gosh, he must know. So I'm very careful, I think,
about how I say things. So I'll try to be careful here. I know all of the scholars that he's citing,
they're in my bibliography. And he's utilizing, for example, he cites Gregory Kierkingio
in his review. He cites, of course, Paul Copant. First of all, so many times when people do that
sort of thing, they're either taking a very small part of what the person said and leaving off
the major thing that they said and just sort of trying to apply it to what they want to say
without really contextualizing it. But the bigger issue here, I think, is I was talking to someone
this morning about COVID and wearing masks and that whole debate that went on. And unfortunately,
if you're not in the field of virology or biological science-y stuff,
I'm sure that's the name of that field. It's difficult to know who knows in the field.
And so if somebody says, oh, no, you don't need to wear a mask anymore, or somebody says, no,
you do need to wear a mask, it's like, well, how do we know? And the same is true. The example that
I gave was like if somebody's in a room and they say, oh, no, the consensus of scholars say the
exodus didn't happen as the Bible says it did. And then somebody else in a room says, no, no, no,
like it did. And he said, well, let me give you the name of a scholar right here. As you said,
like Ron Hendle here, he shows or William Prop or somebody. And the other person says, no,
no, James Hofmeier. Well, if you don't know the field, these are just two names. And you can
like Google them and you can see that they're qualified in their field. And you go, okay, well,
who's right? It kind of takes people that are either in the field or people like you that have
like studied it, you know, ad nauseam to be able to at least know who these people are and be able
to say, okay, we should probably look at James Hofmeier and be like, you know, he's an evangelical
Christian. And he writes specifically as like an apologist towards this sort of thing of the
exodus. So, you know, we need to consider that. And, and so anyway, the point is that this is why I
think it's important to have a work like this. And it's, it's important to be able to look at
what people are saying about these things and be able to say, okay, so they're citing different
scholars. You know, what is it? What is it that these scholars are actually saying? Let me go
read their work. And let me ask some other people in the field just to, you know, what they think
about this. This is the problem I brought up on Polygia's channel. Yeah, excellent video, by the
way. And everybody watching if you haven't watched that, I really, really enjoyed seeing William
Lane Craig mention you. Thanks. Yeah, that was a hero of mine when I was in the faith. And it's a
very difficult thing to traverse this kind of arena of scholarship. When you have guys,
guys and gals, who are writing things that are on the full on apologetic faith based.
I need this to be true kind of thing. And so you're not going to get I use one example and it
was off the cuff. That entire interview was just hip firing. So I thought of more. I thought you
were I thought you were doing the script. No, no, no, that was me just talking to him. And that's
pretty amazing. But it was like, at the end of the day, you've got this idea of like, well, it's
just scholarship. They're just all scholars. I even had a few friends, some that may not even be
Christian anymore, who were like, ah, you know, you weren't being quite fair with the with scholars,
you know, you were kind of being like, they're either like mine, they're secular, they're critical,
or they're not good scholars. And I get there's good things that can come out of
some of these academics, even a couple that he's mentioned. Not a fan of anti right personally,
as I pointed out, I'm with Paul on that review. The guy's using really anti Jewish language
against other academics in his books that he's publishing to argue against them these post
Holocaust, post Holocaust apologists and stuff. But when I'm looking at it, I'm going, all right,
I've talked to Ronald Hendel, and I even have a video where he responds to James Hofmeier stuff.
And he says very clearly, like, take this guy with a grain of salt. That does not mean he
doesn't know some stuff about Egyptology. That doesn't mean he does not know about archaeology.
That means this guy has a Bible in one hand and a spade in the other. And he's letting this
interpret that. So if you're, that's the problem with shopping for scholarship. And this is the
thing. You can be a non believer, you can be a believer. If you don't let your faith get away,
you can do some good actual scholarship and have faith at the end of the day. I've had Ian Mills
on Christian academic. He's an academic who just so happens to be a Christian. I'll put it that way.
He's not an apologist. And he's not letting that lead his his research. This review of your book
sounds like someone who wants the Bible to be like morality for all time. I've heard it with
Muslim apologist online. Yes, the Quran says you can beat your wife. But what does beat mean?
It doesn't mean beat. It means pattern on the butt. You know, hey, be good. Don't do that.
When you get hadith that describe what the exegetes of Islam are saying in certain circumstances
about how a wife of the prophet or not the wife of the prophet, but specifically, yes,
you could say that too. But mainly there was another woman who came in looking green. There's
a story where a girl who was beaten so bad that she's bruised and her skin is green colored.
Now, this, the point is, is like, he was disciplining her and one Michael, but that's bad.
They might look at what you say in the Bible. Hey, you can whip them as long as they don't die
within three days. The owners justified. That doesn't mean that people should do that. This is
what the, right. But it leaves that available, that open for if you just piss off your owner
enough, they are completely justified in abusing that and doing that to you. And that's what they
did. This is what kills me, I think, about apologists that, and not all apologists,
right? Because there are lots of apologists now that are starting to move toward, okay,
yes, slavery in the Old Testament was like real and it was bad. So thank God for that.
But, you know, people that they don't realize that there are passages like Jeremiah 34 and
Nehemiah 5, right? And like, obviously, people work the law, right? It's what they did.
And it's what you see in the Antebellum South. It's certainly what you see in the Hebrew Bible.
And, but even if you come at that and say, well, sinful man, the law itself is saying,
here's how you own slaves. Here's how you physically beat slaves. That's what it's doing,
right? And, and so sometimes in these, and I'm sure everybody watching or most people watching
that have watched the slavery, apologist video or something or read a book, will notice very quickly
that some of the harder passages like Leviticus 25, 44 to 46 get tackled in a way that often
doesn't really tackle the main thing, which is here's where you get your slaves from, right?
They'll focus in on like one little aspect of it. And yeah, well, you know, maybe this other
little thing, you said, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, their property, right?
So anyway, I think those are things to pay attention to when we look at them.
I mean, I've been reading this book recently, and it's a dealing with the Odyssey in the
ancient Near East. You know, I love learning from the Greek world as well, especially when
I learned New Testament is written in Greek. And I wonder, oh, Dennis McDonald, he has this idea about,
so I wondered, there, I do see some interesting things. And we could talk about this at some
other point in depth about how the Odyssey and interacts with the ancient Near East. And it's
more muddy and complicated than I thought, according to Bruce Loudham. The point is,
I'm reading this book, and he came across this passage where he's pointing out, hey,
there's some really ugly things. And this might help us to date some of the ideas that are in here
to see how old they are. Because not only does Homer's Odyssey and Iliad have these certain
places where it's really bad, like they wasn't judges where he cuts up the woman and like the
prostitute gets abused and in hospitality is seen. That's a very, I'm not saying they didn't have
in hospitality kind of ideas going down into the Hellenistic period into the first century,
but it was not as obvious in the ancient Near East literature. And you find it in the Odyssey and
stuff that kind of date it. And there's some ugly things as Bruce Loudham was saying. And I'm like,
this guy is not even talking about slavery. He doesn't care about the topic of slavery here.
He's talking about other morality issues that we can date and say, this is really old. Imagine if
we just roll those over and pretend they don't mean what they say. And they aren't what we really,
any expert who goes back into the cultural historical context would say, hey, yeah, that's how
ugly and cruel it was at one point in time, how humans treated each other and what they did.
We'd never know what was history. We would just keep whitewashing these ancient texts to match
our modern sensibilities. And this is the thing that apologists don't do, right? They don't go
back to like ancient Assyria or Babylonia or the Sumerian text and say, well, let's think about
how this was an actual slavery, right? No, they're trying to find something to say, look how good
slavery is in the Hebrew Bible compared to what you see in the surrounding cultures. And that's
sort of a big part of what this book is about, is just trying to show the continuity between the
various law collections. And this is something obviously that our reviewer took a great issue
with. But I did want to say, you know, Seth Andrews, who obviously did the
did the audio reading, the narration of the audio book. And he also does the
narration of the first and second volumes of Atheist Handbook to the Old Testament.
He texted me actually right before Women Live and about something unrelated.
And when I told him what we were getting ready to do, he said, well, how
how did people who bought the book outside of Amazon like leave a review for it? And I
I don't know, because I just went to the Baha Khan Conference in Ontario. And like obviously a
bunch of people bought the book there. And, you know, many people like Matthew Monger,
he bought a hard copy from us. And I guess, I guess Matt went and bought like a Kindle copy
or something so that he could write that review. Right. By the way, just so people know, if they
do, it's only 774 right now on Kindle. If you have a credit here, I guess, or I don't know, 999.
We try to like we really try with all and this is a 702 page book, right? It's not it's not short.
Right. But we really do Megan and I like said in the beginning, two things. One, like we want
people to be able to read this stuff. So I probably shouldn't say this, but here we are,
like all of our books, and probably this one already are up on like,
what the pirated websites or whatever, right? You can like you can you can go get an EPUB or
whatever it is of it. And like, I think I've said this before, but like people have made YouTube
videos, like showing people, here's where you go and here's a download Dr. Josh's. Wow.
Wow. So on the one hand, that sucks, right? Because this is a part of our income.
On the other hand, I'm like, well, like if somebody's going to that much trouble to get it,
at least they're reading it. So that's good. And I think I've said this on your channel before,
but just it bears saying again, like if people really can't afford, like the Kindle version
or something, just email us email, email us a digital homerabi at gmail.com and we'll send you
like a free PDF copy of it because we do want this stuff to get out there. But if you can afford to
get the Kindle at least or something, please, please do. It really does help us. And again,
if you have purchased it, please leave a review because they make a big difference.
I want to show them not only Matthew Munger's because I want to give him praise for doing
this for you, but also look at this one, Shane Frazier. I don't know who they are.
These are important things for every person to reckon with Christian or not.
Regardless of where you stand on the Bible and its teachings, it is an inescapable fact
that the Old Testament condones slavery. It is an excellently laid out or it is excellently laid
out in this book. Simple as that, a sentence or two. That's it. I mean, you could literally drop,
but we need to help them out because obviously right now, it's so early on, if we don't have
many reviews, that anything is going to just dent the numbers. But here's Matthew Munger's.
Dr. Joshua Bowen has put together the most comprehensive book on slavery in the ancient
Near East. While the book does focus on the question of whether or not the Bible endorses
slavery, spoiler alert, it does. The great strength of the book is the discussion of the
biblical text in the context of ancient Near Eastern law by showing how the Bible acknowledges
social structures that include slavery and actively regulates the taking, keeping, and
transfer of slaves, all within the expected norms of the ancient Near East. Dr. Bowen shows
convincingly that slavery is not only condoned by the Bible, but it is part of the ancient
Israelite culture. This book is an important resource for anyone interested in the topic of
slavery in the Bible in the ancient Near East and will be an important contribution to the field
of Old Testament studies. That is so kind, Dr. Munger. Thank you. 100%. Yeah, that was so well
written. That was really kind. Thank you. Absolutely. And so I hope people will get the book and
check it out for yourself. I mean, look, this is my point. Like, I'm trying to be consistent.
And if you see the Bible as an ancient Near Eastern document, which I look, I'm not saying
everything in the Old Testament is ancient, ancient Near East. As you and I both know,
this is not a single one author wrote the whole, like, it's over time traditions,
redactions. Who knows how messy that is, because we have hypotheses trying to understand
based on good reasoning, why there's discrepancies and doublets and triplets and issues. But
we have some stuff in there that we can fairly confidently say, this is some old sh, you know
what I'm saying? Yeah. And that's what's so beautiful about this. And I just want to know
you're sick. And I really appreciate it. Just so everybody knows, I messaged Derek,
like around three o'clock and said, Hey, I need your help. Is there any way that you could and he
like as I'm typing, he he faced are he Facebook messages or calls me and says like,
here's what we're going to do. We're going to go live today. He's sick, everybody. So like,
I'm not going to keep him here much longer. But like, I just really appreciate you doing this.
And I really appreciate everybody watching. That's, that's, you know, bought the book or,
you know, shared it out or, you know, again, left to review. I really do appreciate. It really
does help us a lot. But I do want to say this, like, there's a reason that I study the ancient
Near East. And it's not because I hate the Bible, right? That would be sort of a silly reason, I
think, to spend 15 years in grad school. Can I teach people to say your testimony on what happened
is it spelled out very perfectly in that because that when we, I haven't edited it yet.
I am going to get it out there. But you just made me think of that. So you're 100%
on the same page. Trust me, people. I heard it. We talked. How long was that hour and a half video?
It was pretty long. And we'll get it out there. Yeah. But stay tuned, I guess, for that because
we really got pretty deep in that. And it was in person too. So the audio is really awesome.
Visual's good. Yeah. Yeah. But like nobody, we're not here. Dr. Munger's not here. Dr.
Kip Davis is not. We're not out here to say like, all right, let me show you why you should hate the
Bible. Like it quite the opposite is the case. We love ancient Near Eastern texts and the Hebrew
Bible is an ancient Near Eastern collection of texts, right? And that's why we dedicate so much
time to studying them. What we don't like is when apologists say, okay, this is the inspired
and errant Word of God, we need to base our morality on this book. And that includes the Old
Testament. And so like, how do we make it so that it wasn't like real slavery? Because we know that
that's wrong. That's, you know, putting that collection of books in a box, trying to say that
Moses wrote it, it's putting it in a box, it's limiting it. You talk about how messy it is and
absolutely it is, but that's such a beautiful process. Because watching how, whether you think
there are four sources that are brought together or whether you think that there are different
hands that come as editors and redactors, whatever it is that you think, you can see the way that
different hands or different sources dealt with different aspects of the culture, the literature,
the mythology, and brought their own unique insights to this in such a way that really
it illuminates what people thought in antiquity. And I think that's just such an important thing
to recognize. And when you, when you just sort of slavishly say, Moses wrote it and anybody that
says otherwise, I'm going to put a one-star review on their book, nudge nudge wink wink,
you know, like those are people that I think make it not a lot of fun, frankly, because seeing the
connections, seeing the intertextuality, seeing how it works with the bottle cycle, like those are
things I think that make the field very exciting and making, make it researching it, just a lot of
fun, frankly. It's all, for me, I'm approaching this, you know, in a way where there's several
things going on. I love the text, I was the evangelical fundamentalist, but then now it's
like, hold on, I'm looking at almost like a textual anthropologist now. I'm like, okay,
so this, at this point in history, humans morality, here's our code. We started formulating laws a
few thousand years before these, these laws are in this text and this, and these people in the
Near East were practicing these things, the laws before that, the laws around that. It makes me
think about how humans evolved in their moral thinking, how they structured and became what we
are today. There's a lot into it. I mean, if we found a fossil that had an arrow through the skull,
are we going to try and like, no, no, no, because my ancestors were there, they would never put an
arrow through someone else's head. That's not, no, that's not what happened. They tried to find a
way to like, pretend they didn't do something that was archaic. No, it's, I want to know what happened,
even if it's not pretty, we can learn from that. Exactly. When you have it in a box that has a seal
that's a permanent absolute, this is the truth. That's, that's the scary path to go down. I agree.
It's like, are we going to keep pulling ourselves back or can we move forward? We already have
enough problems with people not being able to be themselves. Even the interpretation sometimes
of this ancient literature, we always saw them in Gomorrah's same sex relationship.
Notice they immediately go to the, go on into sleep with these divine beings. And it's like,
do you know about inhospitality in the ancient Near East? Nope. It's all about gay. It's all
about the gays. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, dude, do a little bit of understanding there. I understand
that that was inhospital. If you interpret and understand that that was a sexual act in the
Genesis scenario, because later when it talks about it, it doesn't even mention that act. But
in that story, if you did take it as they were being in a hospital and they were trying to sleep
with them, yeah, you could take that as, yeah, look, they weren't even opening their doors.
They weren't trying to show them like, Hey, here's food, rest your feet, that kind of thing.
And there's other stories like that. I was talking about this yesterday on the live stream.
Just lots of misunderstanding, modern conceptions and interpretations being put on to this ancient
text. And in some cases, as you point out, there's some people who are literally saying,
the Bible does condone slavery, and it should be practiced today. Yeah. It's like, what?
Yeah. Yeah. Crazy. Well, dude, I, I know we got, you got some super not trying to run your stream.
Yeah. But maybe like 10, 15 more minutes. I don't want to make, I don't want to go much longer
than that for you because yeah, if you want to do the super chats and answer any audience
questions, man, I'm down. Let's do it. Absolutely. And thank you, Josh, for coming in and joining
me today and thank you for doing this. Hey, I just hope people will review. Let me know. So
Josh will write me if we get any more reviews, and I'll be super thankful if anyone who watches
MythVision does this for him and me. I feel like I'm part of their team. So let's blast
through these, Josh. Don't go too long. So while you're ready to help me get off because trust
me, I am not kidding. I'm sick. This morning I wasn't right. Your answers. Keep those in mind
because I do want to get you here to help me answer these. Happy to. Constellation Pegasus,
goodness gracious. Thank you. All the support you've been giving lately and just super chatting
and things like that. It means a lot. It really helps a lot. I'm happy. You, Dr. Josh,
you take the time to help educate us. Your credibility goes very far with me. You're
one of the trusted sources I've discovered. That is so sweet. Thank you very much, Constellation
Pegasus. I always enjoy seeing the super chats and I love the avatar too. The way of the water,
right? I can't remember. It's the way of the water, right? The avatar or the icon.
I didn't watch the second one. Okay. Well, I'll see it's been fun. I'll see it later.
I'm not cool enough. Okay. Thank you, Constellation and holy smokes. Thank you again. Wow. What topics
will be in the third book? And I suspect we're talking about the atheist handbook. Many of us
here are waiting for it. Yes. Okay. Let's see. The first, probably the medius chapter.
Oh, thank you. Probably the medius chapter or the one that I'm the most excited about
is in volume one, I have a chapter that's essentially saying who wrote the Pentateuch,
not Moses, right? And that's the whole, it's facing that direction. It's not Moses,
but it doesn't really deal with how did it form. And so in volume three, one of the chapters is
going to be like looking at the documentary hypothesis, right? The tradition historical,
looking at how, what it is that scholars in Europe and Israel and in America, like how do
they view the formation of the Pentateuch? Obviously, we won't be able to get into all the
different views of all the different scholars because there are lots of them, but there's some
big, like some big points that we can hit. We'll look at the history behind it in the field itself.
So that's going to be a really fun chapter. There should be a chapter in there on prophecy
and messianic prophecies. So just prophecy in general. And then like looking at, you know,
Isaiah 53, Psalm 22, like, you know, these type of messianic prophecies that are brought up all the
time, there's going to be a chapter on giants. So the Nephilim and, you know, the other terms that
show up in the Hebrew for that, you know, like the sons of a knock and that sort of thing and
dealing with this whole, you know, idea about how like the conquest was to just try to destroy
giants or something, you know, like, whatever. Yeah. So we'll talk to the Amalekites, the people
that must have been giants that hit out on the Ark. I was going to say, or Saul's, like God would
only have had him go annihilate a race of fallen angels. That's gotta be what it is.
There's one, like, oh, the, and I'll mention one more, the archaeology chapter. Dr. Kip Davis will
be instrumental in this one. It's on the Dead Sea Scrolls. So we're going to do archaeology of the
Dead Sea Scrolls and just give a really thorough introduction to it. And again, like, I've already
been working with him on bibliography and secondary literature, just, you know, making sure I have
everybody that I need. So it should be good. I think it will. Yeah. Is Seth going to be reading it?
Yes. Well, he hasn't said so, but, you know, it's pretty mostly Angers Cross. You know what I mean?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's awesome. I'm so glad you have him helping you.
Barron says, like your work member for three months. Thank you so much.
Awesome. Thank you. Yeah. I really appreciate that. Constellation Pegasus again. Mad magazine used
to have snappy answers to stupid questions and various issues. Dr. Josh should write a book titled
Snappy Answers to Stupid Apologists. You know what? That is not a bad idea. I hope you don't mind
if I write that down in my book ideas list that I have because boy, I think there's a lot of material
out there for that. There's so much. This is why I'm able to do what I do. Yeah. If I didn't have
something to do or didn't know what to think, I could just go find an apologist and be like,
yep, all right, I've got something to react. What did you say? Okay, it's got to be the opposite of
that. Thank you so much, Constellation. Good idea. Doc Pluromonot, thank you for always coming
through a donation to convince you to wear a muscle T during your next airman interview.
You're crushing the, was it Tybo? Tybo Big D? Oh, thanks, Doc. I guess I'm just getting in shape.
Yeah, man. There was some picture you put up recently. I can't remember where, but damn, man.
I'm trying, man. I'm working hard. Tearing it up. Tearing it up. Almost every day of the week.
We work out. We walk two and a half, three miles, and it feels good. The energy levels are back.
I'm feeling like I'm back in high school. Do you do Rex Cuando? Oh, for sure. Absolutely.
Absolutely. You can volunteer. Okay, you'll do. How do your sensei? Okay, sorry.
Right. Doc, thank you so much for that. Constellation Pegasus again. Does anyone
know when the book of Genesis was written? Yeah, that's like, well, that will be one of the things,
you know, obviously, that we deal with. Lots of different theories about it.
You know, of course, it's something that we wouldn't be able to just straight answer here,
but I think usually a satisfactory answer for most people is it's not written in the second
millennium, right? It's not written by Moses at the end of the 15th or 15th century.
Wouldn't it be safe to say just as we see it to some degree, at least post-exile, at least?
Sure, like in its canonical form, like in its final form. Yeah, I'm not saying to aren't sources.
Yeah. Date back. I mean, look, Gilgamesh Epic Tablet 11. When did that, you know, find his way?
Seth Sanders talks about how Aramaic and the translation of these ancient Babylonian in Persia.
So there could have been some time during Babylon in the Persia in that period where
this influx of that knowledge was being spread. And here are these Judahite,
Hebrew slash Aramaic scholar scribes that are now starting. But I don't know the answer. I don't
think anyone knows the answer. That's why we have hypotheses. That's right. That's right.
That's a good question. I do wonder how much tinkering down into the Hellenistic period may have.
Like, I don't know. Well, here's what we do know. It was a Tuesday.
Is that the club going up? For sure. I'm with you. I think you're right.
Constellation Pegasus. Again, I know this sounds pretty nasty, but I hate the Bible.
I know where you're coming from, Dr. Josh, but this thing helped create the Watchtower Bible
and track society guaranteed to ruin lives in the future as always. Yeah, 1914. Yeah,
it's fair. That's fair. And so, yeah, I think that I would obviously want to nuance what I'm
saying here. I think that once an ancient text is put in its correct context, and I would say
taken out of the realm of the divine, at least in this sense of like inspiration and air and
see that sort of thing, then we can allow, just like we allow the Epic of Gilgamesh to inform us
and to speak to us, but not, you know, walking away going, well, I guess I need to go slay myself,
a creature out in the out in the forest, you know, mercilessly or something like that.
Look at the ex-Muslims that we are associated with and the kind of trauma that they've gone through
due to it may not even be the religion at large. It might be a particular set of the religion,
but do they love the Quran? No, they hate the Quran. I tend to like enjoy learning and researching
and learning about it because I'm in the secular arena like you. It's out of the divine. This is a
human book and I don't have that abuse that's attached to it, but I just figure I'd use that
analogy to apply also to the Bible. One more here. Dr. Josh, my name is San. Thank you for the
Super Chat. Dr. Josh, just joined, but you are looking very well dressed as always. Thanks for
all you do. Thank you so much. That is very, very kind. I am enjoying kind of coming into my
to my own as far as my, uh, my, uh, why can't I? Oh, thank you. Yes, those toys are cool.
No, it's fun. It's fun to not just wear the same old, same old time. So thank you.
We did have one more that came in. It's awesome. Gettysburg Dmoniac. Hey, Dr. Josh, I'm a huge fan
of your work. What effect did the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls have on the idea of
canonicity of the Old Testament? Yeah, you know, that's a good question. I could probably say a
couple of things about it, but obviously really the person to answer that is Kip, right? Dr. Kip Davis.
But yeah, I mean, um, I mean, as far as understanding things like transmission history,
uh, is obviously very, very important because before, you know, before we had the Dead Sea Scrolls,
you know, we're talking about like a thousand, around a thousand CE, uh, were our earliest
manuscripts, right? In the, in the 10th century. And so, uh, being able to go back to, you know,
the second century, the third century, uh, BCE and look at, um, you know, to varying degrees,
manuscripts or fragments of, uh, the Hebrew Bible is, you know, obviously very, very important to
look at the transmission history of the text. But, um, what I would do is, um, you know, maybe,
maybe we can save that one for, uh, for Kip because I think Kip would be able to speak,
you know, at great length and with, with much more, um, in a much more erudite way.
In a Canadian way. Hey, you know, uh, seriously, thank you, Gettysburg. Appreciate that. I got
to give a shout out to you. Let me share it again. If you're just now tuning in, please,
we're asking for your help. MythVision's asking for you to come help Dr. Josh,
Digital Hammurabi, um, go get a copy of Did The Old Testament Endorse Slavery. I have it pinned
here in the comment section so you can go and get right to the link. Get the Kindle version,
if you can't afford more, you can get it on Audible as well. But, uh, the Kindle version
allows you to, I think, leave the review here on Amazon specifically. We need to get those
numbers up because we have one person here who just imagines the Bible exist in a bubble and that,
like, just somehow it was not, you know, archaic with ideas similar to the rest of the ancient
Near East. And in some cases, as you've said, Dr. Josh, and we, we did some recordings on this.
We talked about it a little bit while you were here. Uh, you stayed with me. What was it for,
like, seven days or something? We talked about how there's even laws that are older than the Bible
and they're actually more merciful in comparison to then what we find in the biblical text and,
like, the Hammurabi and different, you know, law codes. So, yeah, I'm not sure. Yeah, that's right.
Yeah. Yeah. And that's the danger. Um, and I see one more super chat that just came in,
so I'll be quick, but, like, that's the danger, right, of trying to make these types of comparisons
for the purpose of saying this system is better than this system because the reality is that,
you know, in a lot of cases, they're pretty much just on par. And sometimes you can find,
you know, better laws or more merciful laws or whatever in certain collections and some and
others. And so it's just messier than that. Yeah. And don't get it wrong. I'm not saying the Bible's
always worse. There are places where it seems to be better. Of course. One of those is how they would
try to not have ownership of their own. You know, they did try to move beyond, whereas other law
codes might have just let anyone own anyone. It depends on, of course, where. Yeah. Last one is
really a shout out to you, Chris McCarthy. Thank you. Here's 10 bucks for Dr. Josh and Megan,
just to make up for the schmucks who illegally distribute your work. Thank you very much. And
again, like, books are so expensive in academia. It's so like we really do try to just price them
so that we're not losing money on them. But like, yeah, so I'm torn about it. I'm glad people
are reading them. I'm glad people get access to them. But thank you. And if people can actually
just afford to grab the Kindle, like it really does, it really does make a difference for us. So
thank you. Thank you. Again, get the book. Check out Digital Homerabi's YouTube channel.
Megan runs it. Josh is just, what would you call yourself, Josh, in this?
I don't know. Useless, you know. Useless. He's useless. Yeah, that's what I am.
I latched right onto that. That one just felt natural. It's perfect. I mean, I'll say this,
then I'll shut up. When I was at the Baja Khan conference, the tide turned, right? Because
somebody came up to me the second day and said, now I know, now I know where I know you from.
You're Megan's husband. Oh, don't you love that? It was awesome. Because she is the host of the
Barter and Podcast. I'm telling you, I gotta wear this bow tie, right? I gotta try to stand out
somehow. You gotta try. You gotta try. And you know, you're trying. I mean, doing what I can,
right? Best with what I got. That's all you can do is try to just shake what your mama made you
whatever. You know, listen, if you do, if everybody leaves a review, I will come back on here and
shake my ass. No, I'm just kidding. Nobody wants to see like, see, nobody's going to leave a review
now. That was a total epic fail there. He's going to shake that ass.
Seriously, if you go, if you go give him a review, we got to come up with something real quick before
I let you go. What can, what can we do? We got to get you like for five or 10 minutes to do a
hoven thing or something. Like I tell you what, maybe, maybe if, if, if there's a spectacular
response, I, I never did release those Kent Hovind only fans photos. There are three of them.
I have three Kent Hovind only fans photos. One is, you know, they're all wearing the Hawaiian
shirt. One is like just with the shirt open. One is with the shirt of me turned around with no
trousers or underwear on. And then the other one is just me standing facing the camera with the
just the Hawaiian shirt strategically placed over my, you know, your bananas. So, you know,
I'm not promising anything, but, you know, because I really thought I'd be able to do this before
and I balked at it. So, you know, who knows, but get the book, do it. I can't wait to have Kent
Hovind on my channel. Also, subscribe to the YouTube channel. If you're interested, you guys
sell like not just the book through here, which yeah, but you also have merchandise and Megan's
got an Etsy shop where she, she like makes stuff with this laser glow forge is what it's called.
And it's really cool stuff. This stuff right here, right? Yeah. Christmas ornaments and puzzles.
Can you have fun puzzles? She's very, very dense. She designs all of the,
I don't know what they're called, but like that you have to make a file. So she draws and designs
and oh, this is so cool. God, I'm not doing it justice. Sorry. But yeah, earrings and she designs
it all. So, oh my gosh, that's really cool. I did not realize there's all that. So yeah, you can get
ancient Mesopotamian gear, I guess. A lot of them are like gifts. Like there's a,
there are mothers and fathers day frames that have one in the middle there.
So that says mother in Sumerian. And then I think there's one that says father.
Wow. So yeah, so you put a picture in there. It's picture frame.
That's cool. Well, you can support them that way. We also have two courses coming,
just teasing everybody in the chat. This one's Dr. Kip Davis, of course. And he has an 18 lecture
course, but you and I did both one on slavery. And then we did one on mythology that the Old
Testament Hebrew Bible is influenced by. And so it's going to be courses that break down
this whole scenario of is the Bible copying? I guess the better word, because we call it copying
to make it simple online. I know they're more technical, scholarly language. Is it dependent upon
is probably the best. Is there intertextuality between them? Right. And yeah. So in the course,
like I really go through focusing on Genesis one through 11, but getting a bit into Isaiah and the
Psalms. But yeah, I mean, it's just trying to show here's Mesopotamian influence specifically in
different passages. Here's Eugiridic influence in one of the lessons. So yeah, I mean, it was
a lot of fun to put that together. Just stay tuned. Im nag in the house with the Super Sticker.
Thank you so much. Appreciate the love. And then usual, I don't think in group rules for slavery
is better D or just justification for bigotry. So ultimately, I'm not saying that I'm yeah,
I'm saying if we were looking at morality as an evolution, right, things are changing. Let me use
a modern example. Gays were not even allowed to marry recently, right? The trans issue wasn't even
on the table yet really wasn't a thing as it is now. But just getting them to be allowed to marry
each other is a step in the right direction. And what you were doing, I think in that is you're
saying in the ancient world, when you look at this law collection, and you look at this law
collection over here, sorry, I can't see my hands. When you make a comparison between the two, sometimes
there you go. Sometimes there are laws in this collection that seem more progressive, more
you know, kind, whatever word that we want to use. Merciful, I think was the word that you used
then in this collection, and vice versa. And so I think you were saying, are there places in the
Hebrew Bible or the Old Testament laws that seem to be more progressive than in the others? Yeah,
in a couple of places here might be one, but definitely usual is absolutely correct. Doesn't
make it like better from our standard in the sense of like, it's just, yeah, it's like a baby step.
And so this wasn't misunderstood, Caterpillar definitely said, we're not an issue. That's not
my point. You see the struggle in America, right? People were fighting this idea of same sex
relationships. Just the relationships was a problem. Then it becomes now, are they allowed to marry?
That was a problem. We finally are hurling that. Okay, now we're talking about
trying to, you know, the war on drugs. Talk about this. Well, we were criminalizing people
who have a disease of addiction. We have people who identify themselves with a particular gender
or whatever demonize, condemn, try to stop them from having rights as an individual. That's my
point. I'm not, we're not even where we should be is my point. And right now in our mind,
we're as ethical and moral as we can be, but we have always room to grow and better ourselves and
broaden our understanding. And I'm saying, if you look at it that way, when they're saying, hey,
we should stop owning our own people, it's a step in the direction I think I'm not saying it is
anywhere close to the conclusion. It's a step of saying, someone must have thought, dude, we're
doing this for our own families, our own people. And then eventually you start having a broader
picture of the world around you and you start going, hold on, there's somebody's family too.
There's somebody's child or mother or daughter or sister. And when you can broaden that, then you
can start going, why are we treating them like, and I'm just, that's my point, I guess.
And I do want to say like, Caterpillar, thank you for pointing that out, because like, this is the
thing, we use the language, we use phrases. Like the example that I always go to is when I used to
say like, my jokes are so lame, right? Now I'm 80% disabled, right? I have MS. But, you know, here
I'm making this, I'm using this phrase that is very ableist, and I just had no idea that I was
doing it. And so somebody had to point that out to me. And I really appreciate that they did.
And so thank you, I think we need to, like we definitely need to pay attention to those sorts
of things. So thank you for pointing that out. Absolutely. Cheap beg for a Kent Hovind impression.
Well, you know, here's the problem, Derek, if you will. And actually, I might even have, no, I
don't, I was going to say, I wonder if I have my glasses, but I don't have them here. And the
problem is I've been sick for the past couple of weeks. And so maybe my impression isn't as good,
okay? But I'm here to help. And so I definitely will do a Kent Hovind impression. Maybe I just
need to get some water, okay? And get some otters. Probably thinking about that 14 foot whale penis,
aren't you? You're pervert, huh? I'm here to help. That was epic when he actually did that the first
time. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. I love you, Dr. Josh. I love everybody in the chat. I hope that we can
continue to have each other's backs, help the world break down the walls, stigmas, just divisions,
backwards ideas that we want to see change and just love the world humans trying to make it.
Anyway, any final words for you? Thank you. I just thank you for having me on. Thank you for doing
this and on, like, no notice. You just, just so everybody knows Derek was like, Nope, we're doing
it right now. I'm helping you out. So thank you. I really, really appreciate it. Subscribe to the
channel if you haven't out there and take a look at the Patreon because it's actually really,
it's a lot of videos up there. I'm a, I'm a patron myself. So a lot of videos up there you can get
early. So thank you, Josh. Appreciate it. Love everybody. Never forget we are very sick today.
Myth vision. All right, y'all.
