is a person being dishonest a liar.
According to Vocabulary.com,
someone dishonest is corrupt,
a cheater, a liar, or a fraud.
Dishonest folks shouldn't...
Well, that's pretty much all you need to hear for now.
I'm a lying, cheating fraud who's dishonest.
Well, according to Vocabulary.com,
and according to some Christian apologists,
I would call them apologists.
I will not be naming any names
because I respect their privacy in our conversation.
But since yesterday's video,
I have been called, I would say dishonest in my approach
for what I do with myth-vision.
It's a one-sided channel that is not balanced
and it isn't giving both sides equal light.
I'm not shining that light on both sides.
Now listen, forget the fact that I have done an interview
with Michael Heizer before he died on his book Demons.
Forget the fact that I've also interviewed Mike Lacona.
I mean, I have interviewed Mike Lacona.
So we've done something pertaining to his debate
coming up with Bart Ehrman.
And also, let's ignore the fact that Delcey Allison Jr.,
who's really good at being balanced in his conversations
and doesn't bring apologetical axe-grinding conclusions
to the narrative.
He tells you his particular take,
but in a completely academic fashion
where I don't feel he's kind of trying to sway you
toward his worldview.
I can't say that I haven't seen that kind of grind
with Mike Lacona.
I mean, I really do respect Mike Lacona.
I love the things he brings up.
In fact, when he did the comparisons
between Pompey, Hector, and Jesus,
I think while he thinks it's coincidental,
I think he's actually on to something.
But I digress.
This video today, I'm actually trying to express to you
what my agenda is and where I'm at in all of this
and how I understand why a Christian apologist
thinks I'm being dishonest.
But do the Christian apologists understand
why people think they are being dishonest?
Look at your YouTube channels.
Look at all of them from Mike Winger
to maybe inspiring philosophy, my buddy.
I'm friends with Michael Jones.
Disagree with him at the end of the day,
but I am friends with him.
I was just recently called the Carl Tuckerson
of atheism on Discord.
Interesting.
People are funny.
I think it's actually interesting
that I'm actually getting this popularity
among the Christians
where they have to kind of throw me under the bus.
They already weren't really listening to me.
I feel like most of them were listening,
if anything, to hope that I would convert.
Just to hope that, man, there may be some hope in him.
Why?
Because they start with their conclusion.
Their worldview is correct.
And one day, if Derek's actually going to get to the truth,
he'll come to my position
or he'll come to some theistic one
where it's closer to Christianity.
There is so much to say about this,
but let me try to unravel the onion here.
This is important.
My channel highlights academics
that no other academics, no other scholarly
or even atheistic, agnostic, critical, skeptical channel
or Christian has ever highlighted.
There are people that I've found in my community
that have discovered methision
or I've discovered them
and have come to be part of it
who were reading this material.
But no one that I'm aware of on YouTube,
other than the academic institutions
who were having these people lecture at them,
have ever tried to popularize these scholars
that I'm bringing on methision.
This channel is a skeptical channel.
It is about historical research,
using historical methodology,
which is a naturalistic framework.
If you think something beyond that's true
that is some metaphysical claim or miraculous, do so.
I don't stop you, but I want to get to
what we can naturally know and observe
and compare it using your heuristic approaches
to other communities,
using heuristic approaches to other examples
of other claims, whether it be Caesars
and their apotheosis is eyewitness testimonies.
The list goes on.
Thank you, Richard C. Miller, for your wonderful book
on resurrection, reception and early Christianity.
Show me a single Christian
who's ever tried to engage that work.
None.
Are they dishonest?
Many will say yes,
but they may not say yes for the same reason.
I'm saying using the same tool that this Christian,
who wrote me, whom I have respect for,
even though I totally disagree with,
and they are a Catholic,
who they say they don't identify with fundamentalism.
They do run in the circles of Christian apologists
that I would say borderline into fundamentalism.
If you define fundamentalism to mean
like young earth creationist,
literal absolute inerrantist.
Okay, maybe you aren't that fundamentalist,
but I can't say it's black or white.
There is a gradient scale of conservative mindset
that comes into this.
You see, I had many Christians
who saw my video that I did,
where yesterday, you know, that one,
this is war about the ideology battle
that we're dealing with,
and then even the one where I was being funny
on April Fool's about converting,
and they laughed and they said,
man, you're doing God's work.
Even yesterday, Derek, you really are doing God's work.
I love what you do.
Your channel is so educational,
and it isn't giving me that same old grind
from Christian apologists who want this to be so true
that they're able to confirm their faith
by watching and listen.
Look, we aren't about that.
We want the latest cutting edge academic research
that tells you what's going on in the culture,
in the situation.
Sure, I want to see,
is there historical reliability
within the gospel narratives and acts?
But what about the stuff that isn't reliable?
Are you paying attention?
Are those who are watching looking,
the Christians who watch my material,
but watch it kind of like,
oh, he was too critical.
Let's throw him under the bus, Mr. MythVision,
Carl Tucker-Sen or whatever.
No, I'm saying cut it.
Cut it out.
I watch Michael Jones.
I even became a patron of Michael Jones,
but I have to be wise where my money's at,
or the woman upstairs will kick my butt.
Mrs. MythVision.
But I literally joined his Patreon for one month
because I appreciated the engagement
with the documentary hypothesis.
Even if I think he's wrong about it
at the end of the day,
I really do appreciate it.
Yes, this is war.
And I mean that in not a literal sense.
In the battle of the minds,
you're finding people online
who gravitate towards what we're doing
or what the Christians are doing.
Some people are on the fence
and are able to be balanced,
and I appreciate those people.
People who don't have to take my conclusions,
yet they love what I'm doing.
Thank you for being the human you are,
and I hope more people can be mature like that
and not fall into the category
of feeling like everything I say,
they gotta attack back.
Because I know,
I know that I have some salt and pepper
of reaction toward fundamentalism I came out of.
And the reason why,
I wouldn't even be talking about this
if there wasn't a real impact
in the world we live in,
especially in America,
because of evangelical Christians,
because of Christian nationalism,
because of those who call themselves Christians
and are making serious impact
on human ethics and morality
and other issues we find in our society,
and also are making huge impacts
on my own family.
Watching my mother fear over hell
and literally looks at me
when the topic comes up
and it comes up periodically
with fear in her eyes
that her son's gonna go to this imaginary place,
mythical place that is non-existent.
But you don't know that with certainty.
I don't need to.
Same way, I'm an atheist.
But you aren't certain there isn't a God.
Don't need to be.
I'm not certain there aren't unicorns
or alternative realities
where unicorns really do exist.
Maybe there's not a God in this universe,
but there's someone in another one.
My point is,
I don't need to be absolutely certain
to not believe something's true.
I actively don't believe there is a God.
I don't need to be a non-theist.
That's a whole digression.
Now, here's the thing.
You wrote me, and you know who I am.
I mean this with all due respect,
but I think that there's not as much critical thinking
going involved in this
because as soon as it's another worldview
that makes miraculous claims,
are they really doing miracles as well?
I understand the Catholic Church
is trying to incorporate certain criteria
that helps people to maybe say,
okay, that one doesn't stand the test
of our criteria of being a valid miracle.
But what is a miracle in this case?
And you bring it up.
I'm going to read this for our audience
so they can follow along with us
because this is important.
So you give me some non-sequiturs about
so what if the ancient Near Eastern deity
we see in the Bible was polytheistic,
by the way, might I add,
when you sent me this?
This is something important.
The ancient Israelites were not monotheists.
They had probably similar
to what we see in Mesopotamia,
probably similar to what we find even in Egypt,
where there is kind of a hierarchy of deities,
a council, right?
Michael Heiser talks about the Council of the Gods
and such in Genesis 1
and how it's not the Trinity,
contrary to early church fathers,
which your Roman Catholic Church
might take contention with Heiser on this issue.
But anyway, looking at Michael Heiser
and at least going,
here's an evangelical who's trying,
who recognizes a plethora of deities,
but there's only one supreme God.
He recognizes their other gods.
He doesn't want to call it polytheism.
I'm not even certain
if he likes the term heenotheism, but he might.
At the end of the day,
I'm trying to point out this is polytheistic
and the academics I do talk to,
sure, I'm not calling David A. Faulk
to do an interview and ask him
or maybe other academics in the Old Testament.
But you mentioned Mark S. Smith,
who's a Roman Catholic,
and you brought up the fact that Smith's work
on the origins of Yahwehism,
yet he believes in Jesus.
It's a non sequitur to say that this God doesn't exist
or that you say God doesn't exist.
I never said God doesn't exist
because this is an argument I get a lot
from a lot of people.
Just because Christianity isn't true
or Judaism isn't true
or even Islam isn't true,
doesn't mean a God doesn't exist.
I know.
Well, then why are you an atheist?
You fell out with one religion
and then all of a sudden you draw this conclusion
that atheism is the most plausible explanation?
No, I think what happens is
when you've been taught something
and you find that you've been duped about a lot
and now critical thinking skills
really become something.
The scientific method.
You want to poke holes to see if it stands the test.
And as you evaluate that and you see human nature,
you find out we evolved from other species.
We are primates.
That starts to ring true
when you realize holy smokes
is this phenomenon of religion,
a human, man-made construct
that we have naturally come to
because of our observations of the world
and the way that our human mind works.
How we try to make sense of things.
I think ancient religion is its best.
It's the most advanced scientific way
of thinking at that time.
And this is why I think that
if we take an anthropological scientific
kind of evolutionary approach,
we're going to discover,
hey, this is all man-made.
So God could still be true.
In 2000 years from now,
philosophers could come up with something
or find out something to be true
about the universe and God.
And it would still not mean
that the Bible's true,
that this God of the Bible's true.
This is tradition, is my point.
And that ancient Near Eastern God
was once probably a minor deity
who became a major deity in the Pantheon.
Just like Marduk took over from Ninurta
in the Mesopotamian tradition
or whatever other God you might want to look at
that took over the Pantheon.
This seems very important
if we're going to think that this God is true and real.
And the evolution of this God takes place.
Finally, philosophy sets in
and this God becomes the only true
and no deity beside this God.
That's kind of odd.
I don't see that in my Bible,
in the ancient text.
I think the man-made, man-perception,
man-evolution, and the concept of God
as we've learned over time
about the world around us has evolved.
Because all it is is the illusion
of our mind on the natural world around us
and trying to make sense of things.
Makes the most sense to me.
So that's my two cents.
You called it a non-sequitur,
but I wanted to point out
there could still be a God
and this Bible God is literally a man-made God.
And I do think it's a man-made God.
Even though I'm an atheist
who actively doesn't think there is a God,
that doesn't mean I've exhaust all sources
on planet Earth to come to the conclusion.
Yet, I'm making the point,
I'm pretty convinced this one doesn't exist.
Seems very man-made.
I know that you don't agree with me.
But I imagine what Marcus Smith's work
on the ancient Bible might reveal,
that this God evolved over time
and it's a polytheistic system
and it comes out of a pantheon and stuff.
Which I personally don't know.
I respect their conclusion of Marcus Smith.
If he wants to believe Jesus is true
and that's his tradition,
I respect that.
But at the end of the day,
I think that he hopefully
would respect my conclusions on this.
If I'm supposed to be respectful of his,
he should be respectful of mine.
But that doesn't mean I think he's right.
And I don't think that people
who draw that conclusion are correct.
Can I speak my voice?
Can people listen to me?
You see, I've interviewed scholars
for years on this channel,
very rarely poking and giving my two cents.
Now that I'm speaking out,
I get a little slack from those Christians out there
that don't like what I say.
So they want to be critical.
This is the engagement,
that war I was telling you about yesterday
that's happening.
Second, for the ancient miracles you talk about,
different criteria.
I think I've already gone over this.
The idea that what if some of this stuff
is just unfalsifiable,
not knowing what the case is?
I mean, it is odd how I think
divine hiddenness plays a significant role
when we try to understand this God.
There are literal,
I mean, there are entire hospitals
devoted to children with leukemia
and death giving diseases.
Children, little innocent children.
Now, I don't know if your Catholic theology
in particular holds to the idea of born,
born in a fallen nature,
which means that if you're not baptized as an infant,
you're going to burn by this God.
I don't know your particular position on this,
but I know that that was a common perception
within Catholicism.
Yet, I'm looking at all these kids and going,
why not go and just prove yourself once and for all for that?
But then again, I could be devil's advocate
and see that Mark's Jesus doesn't want them
to change and convert.
He thanks God that he hid these things from people.
And then when they ask for a sign,
oh, only an adulterous and perverse generation
asks for a sign and none will be given.
You find in Matthew and Luke, they add on,
but the sign of Jonah,
that's odd.
Mark doesn't want them to have signs
because only a wicked generation would ask for evidence
to prove that you're God.
Leave us in the dark, why don't you?
Oh, interesting.
That's kind of ironic.
Now let's move on to the next part.
Finally, Derek, you get on the one side of scholarship.
This is where I'm the liar,
by definition being dishonest is lying, okay?
So I'm the liar.
Now imagine that I had a YouTube channel
where I only brought on these scholars mentioned, okay?
Or others not mentioned, but who hold similar beliefs, okay?
And completely ignored the scholars that disagreed, okay?
Obviously that would be faulty and dishonest,
but yet that's what you do.
I imagine I could literally say this back
to the Christian channels on YouTube, right?
Because you only bring on your particular academics
that are Christian,
they are of the Christian persuasion,
they have an apologetic persuasion.
They're convinced that it's just downright obvious.
How come you haven't just believed?
Don't you read the letters of Paul and the Gospels
and see how true it is?
Don't you just know how reliable this material is?
I did at one point when I was a believer,
when I was a Christian, and then I did what I would call,
even in science, the scientific method
and started realizing, are there problems with this text?
Do these Gospels actually contradict?
Are there issues?
Is Paul really this guy who has this message
that's actually from God?
And why is it that the Pneuma, the Pneuma of God,
the Spirit of God in the Corinthian church,
clearly and others, but clearly isn't making an impact?
I mean, you've got guys sleeping with their mother-in-law
or their stepmom or whatever it is,
you have chaos ensuing in this spirit-filled church.
No different than you see today among churches.
I'm not convinced that a Pneuma is really taking place
and actually activating a change in all of their lives.
I really wonder what Paul's actual life was like
and what he actually did.
But the only thing I can do is try and look at
verisimilitude, heuristic approaches
of studying other movements, checking out other claims
by other figures around the same time,
whether they be Jewish, pagan, Caesar, deities, you name it.
And I start realizing there's common themes,
miraculous births, apotheosis, divinations,
where they go up and ascend into heaven, postmortem appearances.
All the things that check the boxes for Jesus
are checked the boxes for these legendary tales
that walk like a duck and talk like a duck and quack like a duck.
Oh, but Jesus and Christianity, it's not a duck.
It's an angel, it's God.
It's true, it's true, my friends.
I do not think that that is an accurate assessment.
Believe it if you will, sure.
Don't shove it down people's throats
that kind of goes against the Great Commission.
I know I'm asking Christians to cherry pick here,
but geez, I'm metaphorically tired of people knocking on the door,
shoving it down your throat saying,
loving it down your throat saying,
this is the truth and you better believe it,
or else my all loving God will cook you for all eternity
for the things you did.
I didn't ask to come into this world.
Not that I recall, maybe before I was born,
I said, hey, send me there.
Unfalsifiable.
Why believe in unfalsifiable thing
if I have no evidence to prove that's the case?
So many things are being said here.
My friends, let me make a clear point.
I may take this criticism,
even though I think it's not a fair assessment of me
and what I'm doing.
I do think it's a good observation
that what I'm doing is getting academics
that aren't highlighted by any channel.
And I'm putting them a spotlight on them.
I'm shining a bright light on people.
We know the Lakonas.
We know the Gary Habermasses.
We know the NT rights.
We understand the Christian apologists
and they have platformed and done a good job
of exposing their side of people
who agree with them.
And I wouldn't even say it's my side
because some of the scholars I'm highlighting
aren't ontologically on my side.
Many of them are theist, agnostic,
Jews, Christians, you name it.
And they don't follow my ontology.
Yet they're drawing a critical conclusion
and they don't agree with that.
So yes, I have a bit of cherry picking
and bias on my channel and I admit that.
I've said that the same way.
I know Michael Jones has done a video about
Christians and both atheists are bias.
I have no contentions whatsoever.
I do think there are psychological reasons
behind what drives people to draw conclusions.
Just like right now, I have psychological reasons
that drive me to be critical
and want to educate you on what I think
are the facts on the ground
and a better approach of getting closer
to the historical bedrock and reality.
Cutting edge academics that I think
are closer to what is true.
So while Christians think that their people are true
and their people have the accurate understanding,
I think that my people are closer to it.
The only difference is my people at the end
aren't saying if you don't believe this,
you're going to go to hell.
That's the difference.
There's no baggage of believe or die,
believe or be killed.
I love you, but I'm going to cook you forever
with our particular position.
Now you might say that's a straw man
and you're poisoning the well there.
I may have been a little there.
Let me admit something.
Some are universalist.
God will kick your ass for a while
for the things you did,
but eventually we'll all end up in the same place.
If your worldview is true,
I hope that universalism is true.
I hope.
But are we going to start doing that?
What do you want to risk it all and just believe anyways?
When I find that the evidence for Christianity
is not compelling,
your best bet is to follow suit
with Caleb Jackson, in my opinion,
find actual good evidence
of modern miracles happening today,
get the proof of this stuff actually occurring today,
and prove it.
Prove it.
Find a way to prove that.
Ancient literature coming from the biblical text
is just not evidence that is worth saying.
Oh, I read it.
It's true.
Hallelujah.
Without any subjective experience attached to that,
without any observation here and now
that is giving you that validation,
I find no reason to read this ancient new literature
the same way I don't find a reason to believe
Suetonius or any other literature
that I've talked about.
Plutarch, Cicero,
and we're going to dive into all that stuff
even deeper as time goes by.
Virgin birth of Jesus is so unique.
Even Bart Ehrman got that wrong.
M. David Littler, who was a student actually,
went on record correcting that,
showing Plutarch talks about
the Numa of God impregnating Plato's mother
through non-sexual means.
This is somewhat contemporaneous,
a little bit before actually,
but somewhat contemporaneous
to what we see in the Gospels of Luke
and that Numa and Denimos in Greek
talking about the power of God overshadowing Mary.
My friends, my skeptic friends,
I hope that you will dive deeper into scholarship
and engage because I'm telling you,
it isn't like scholarship is monopolized
and really overwhelmingly convincing
from the other side.
Dive into this material,
and maybe to our friend who wrote me this note,
and here's my response to you and the rest of the world,
maybe I will interview Craig Keener.
Let me name the list here.
Craig Keener, Inti Wright, Peter J. Williams,
Richard Bakum, Paul Rhodes, Eddie,
Gregory Boyd, Brant J. Petrie,
Daryl Bach, Michael Byrd, Craig Evans, etc.
I have interviewed Michael Heiser,
Michael Lacona, I've interviewed Delcey Allison Jr.
and I know that I have a limited of view,
like of these kind of scholars on my channel
and more so on the critical side.
However, you could say look at capturing Christianity.
You just turned Catholic,
I'm sure that he'll be closer to you
in terms of his position.
And I'm buddies, I mean, I'm not saying we're friends,
but I'm cool with these people.
We disagree, I'm cool with these people, whatever.
Here's the deal though.
His interview he did with Bart Ehrman,
guess who set that up?
Guess who helped make that happen and facilitate it?
The interview that my friend Michael Jones did
on Revelation with Bart Ehrman,
guess who helped set that up?
I did.
And I'm glad that they interviewed them
and I want to be more vocal
and allowing other voices and stuff like that.
However, I see there is an agenda on the other side
just like I have one.
And I do want the best of the best.
And I do think I'm going to interview people
and want to bring on scholarship
that I tend to think is more accurate,
that doesn't mean there isn't good things
that come from the scholars
that you mentioned enlisted to me.
So I probably will interview some of these academics.
But before I mention one more thing,
have you read the scholars
who've actually critiqued Bakem's work
on the names that are going on in these gospels
and how reliable historically these things are?
Like Jeff Tripp, who wrote a book
against Bakem's work,
literally on the Gospel of John,
on eyewitness testimony and stuff.
Have you read that?
Well, I've interviewed him
and I've interviewed scholars
that have been totally critical of NT Wright
like Paula Fredrickson.
And she has really ripped into his like 1400 page book.
That's another problem personally.
I saw this particular person post on Facebook
about an axe commentary series
that's four books thick.
Now, I don't know if you've read all four of those books
and commentaries on acts,
but I don't know if you've also read the others
from Shelley Matthews to the other commentaries
like the Hermione commentary series on acts too
and others that have written about acts.
So sure, you can point the blame on me.
I could point the blame back.
But the blame game shouldn't be the game we're playing.
I think we should just get into what a scholar say, right?
And you have your scholars and I have mine.
And maybe we can mitigate that war
that I mentioned yesterday on the channel.
Maybe we can start bridging the gap a little bit
and seeing what they have to say amongst themselves.
I'll try to be better about that.
But I also am going to start speaking my own mind more.
And I think that my voice is what created this issue
where people were like,
we could tolerate Derek because Derek just
never really took strong stances,
never really vocalized how he actually disagrees
that much with Christianity
and doesn't find it a worldview that is true
and also sees it as very harming in many ways,
self-perceptionally and in the world.
The view of the end of this is going to happen at some point.
Oh, unless you defang apocalypticism.
But are you being true and faithful to what the text says
in the New Testament?
If you do that, no, I don't think you are.
So there is a lot that was said in this
and I hope that you take that and understand
that I am a person who does care about humans.
I care about my Christian friends
and I care about those who are fundamentalists.
But I also care about the minds that are being poisoned
by many of the ideas I think that are harmful out there.
So I am doing what I think is the right thing
and I'm going to try to do better.
I'll take your criticism.
I'm going to try and reach out to some of these academics
and to poke into their minds and get their thoughts.
Yet, will you do the same?
Will you actually bring on the academics
that I'm having on my channel?
And I don't have to list them.
You can go and easily find all of these scholars
and bring them on to interview them and get ideas from them.
Will you do the same?
Lying Lambert wants to just say,
I hope everybody is learning something and continues to do so.
You don't have to agree with me at the end of the day.
But please don't think I'm just being a liar.
If you do, it's because what I'm saying
is triggering you most likely and it is offensive to you
in whatever means possible.
So I love you.
Please help support the channel by liking,
dropping a comment on what you think,
even if it's just for the algorithm.
Sharing it out there for more people to see.
And you can also support the channel in various ways
that are down in the description.
You can also take one of our courses.
We have academics actually teaching you.
And one of them is a Christian,
Delcy Allison, Jr.
on the history of New Testament studies,
the quest for the historical Jesus.
I love you and I hope that everybody's okay.
Have a wonderful day.
