We are live.
Did morality really get monopolized by Christians?
This is a sincere question because online,
right, that's where you lose seriousness often, but here's the deal,
online there are many people who
regurgitate that Christians brought morality and if we just followed Christian
morality and we need Christian morality in order to
keep society going. Christian morality is the best for society. The list goes
on and on and Christians are the ones who came up or at least their
teachings originate with morality coming from God.
Not from pre-Pagan, though use the term
or pre-Greek or Roman sources, maybe handing the
baton down to the Christians and that includes Jewish
morality. So I wanted to do a live stream
and hang out with Dr. Richard Carrier who's written several articles on this.
The most recent article he's written is actually pertaining to infanticide
which we've heard of discarding of the children that you don't want
or maybe there's some elements, issues with the children that you can't afford
to take care of them and is this something that they commonly
did that was just a pagan morality and the Christians come
along and rather than discard them, they took them into their house
and they raised them and adopted orphans etc etc as if no one else ever
did that. So Dr. Carrier, I don't know where you would like to begin
other than welcome back to myth vision and we're talking about
morality and how this absolutely goes
directly from God and we're just wanting to sin which is why we're making these arguments right now.
Yeah and the usual argument is that the pagans were all these immoral
orgy having baby killing, had no ethics
no charity or any of that and the Christians invented all of this stuff
and therefore they gave to the western world morality
but that's not the case. There's actually very little in Christianity
that's new, almost everything that you might like about it
comes from prior, you can find it in paganism, you can find it in Judaism
and you can find it in other cultures completely unconnected, you can find it in ancient China
so there's not actually much that's new there
and yet there's actually more morality and more concepts
of principles of justice outside Christianity that you won't find anywhere
in the Bible, like you won't find democracy, you won't find human rights, like the word rights
doesn't exist in there, you won't find the idea of democracy, you won't find the idea
of increasing women's status, like it's not going to be explicitly discussed
in there, if anything it's the opposite right, actually if you look at the first
Timothy, the Pseudo-Paul, like someone pretending to be Paul forged that letter
to have Paul condemn women to not have authority, they cannot have positions of authority
and they cannot teach, you're not to listen to that basically, women are going to be quiet.
Is this a baby making machines? Yeah, right, where he says that women can be
saved by having babies, that's right, yeah, yeah, Paul did not say that, that is
that as a liar pretending to be Paul, but it is still sacred scripture
because the Christians have like half the New Testament as forgeries.
So might as well have said it. Yeah, yeah, right,
especially from the perspective of Christians, whereas outside the Bible, we're
seeing actually improvement in the rights of women and attitudes, even if
they're physical rights, like the legal rights haven't improved, attitudes are catching
up and so and that all gets put on the shelf when Christianity
takes over and it basically institutes this sort of fascist morality for
another thousand years until people rediscover pagan morality and pagan philosophy
underlying morals and legislation, like the idea of rather than divine
rights and revealed laws, principles of how do we rationally
arrive at laws like that whole idea is pagan and had to be rediscovered
in the late Renaissance and then developed into the Enlightenment and then
of course that led to the Enlightenment democracies of the modern era,
United States, France and so on.
I just wanted to say how wrong we are because you're just
you haven't read Tom Holland's book Dominion and therefore
you're wrong. No, no, no, I'm kidding. I haven't actually read it.
I haven't read it, but people keep quoting it.
Yeah, I'm aware. Yeah, I have an article on that.
I've interacted. I have two articles where I talk about Tom Holland's silly ideas.
He doesn't know what he's talking about really and he's wrong
about almost everything and even when he's right, it's trivial. It's not relevant
as relevant to his overall point. So I have two articles on Tom
Holland. Actually, Mr. Deity is running a series of videos
on Tom Holland that actually highly recommend that actually
he's doing a good job of it. He's doing it more thoroughly than I
did. But what I focus on is, of course, my PhD is in ancient
history. So I focus on, well, let's look at ancient
history. Let's prove to a proper comparison. What
does a system of morality, principles of justice,
philosophy of ethics and law and all of that stuff, how does that look
before Christianity takes over? And I've even
done a little bit of work on China. I didn't do my PhD on that,
but when I was at Berkeley for my undergraduate, one of the
subfields I was studying was ancient China. And I studied under
Keith Lee, Professor Keith Lee, who was a leading expert in ancient
China at the time and took courses. And then my honors thesis
actually featured the study of ancient China comparing it to Roman Greece.
So I know some things. And I have deep background on that because my one true
religion, the one thing that I truly had faith in, the one religion I ever did, because I was never
like a faithful Christian or anything. I was never like a believing Christian. I was raised
just as if it's just normal to be a Christian, but I wasn't raised by fundamentalists.
And so I didn't even encounter fundamentalists until after
I had gone through Taoism, which was my one true faith.
I actually was convinced that Taoism was true. But then I got, I studied more
Chinese philosophy as a religious officiant, as a religious practitioner.
So I studied more Confucius, more of the other Confucians, not just Confucius,
as well as other Taoists and stuff. So I know I learned a lot about Chinese philosophy
and I found like a lot of the stuff that people think is that the Christians invented was like
the Chinese were already inventing it. And they didn't even even heard of Christianity, right?
This is long before that. So, so yeah, even in ancient China, it's been
global, which means that there are rational evidence-based ways
to arrive at our conclusions about this stuff.
But of course, you know, what they didn't come up with in China is
democracy and human rights, those basic principles. Those principles
arose a period of riven out of the democracies and confederacies
of ancient grace before Christianity came along and found their way
into the earliest philosophies. Stoicism had one account, Epicureanism
has another. So for instance, Epicureans, they invented
social contract theory. So people think like John Locke is like the
founder of modern law and ethics and stuff is like, well, he's just developing
the Epicurean theory of contract theories. It's basically an early form of game theory,
which is his idea is like society's laws and everything are based on a rational contract
that people reach with each other. And if you suppose that people are rational
and evidence-based, what would be the best contract for them both to agree to?
And then you can say like from that principle, you can derive like all
kinds of principles of law and justice, including democracy, incidentally,
which you won't find anywhere in the Old Testament or New Testament. There's no democracy anywhere,
nothing like that. So social contract theory, especially as the foundation
of democracy and democratic principles and the foundation of our civilization today
comes from Epicureans, right? Like that's where it comes from. Plus
other philosophers, Aristotle and the Stoics in particular,
they added very significant advances in
underlying philosophy of law, underlying philosophy of ethics, moral principles and so on.
There's so much to chew on because a lot of the church
fathers also rely heavily or at least reference these
philosophers that are pre-Christian and oftentimes are
rationalizing saying actually, in fact, they were Christians because
and they really weren't, but they were Christians because
how would they have known these moral things and how would they have known the one
ultimate deity and things like that? It's an accuracy.
Well, I actually know. It's actually, that's good to bring that up because
Christians are, as they often did,
they're stealing an idea, twisting it to sell their particular
perversion of it, right? So there's a more pristine, more rational
preceding idea that they're borrowing here and we find that in the Stoics, not in the
Epicureans. The Epicureans, they think ethics and law come entirely out of humans
as gods aren't involved at all. The Stoics do have a principle
of divine emanation in terms of how the, what their
ethics and their philosophy comes out of does come from God. Human rights does come
from God. However, how it comes from God in their system is completely different
from how it comes from God in the Christian system and the difference is very important
for understanding the entire Middle Ages as to why it was so fucked up
is that in the Stoic system, what it was
is that you have the Creator, the one God, who made everything and then
what is the ethical and correct way to form a government and the ethical and correct way to live your
life and so forth was supposed to be directly observable. Like you just look at
nature, look at, just reason things out and you can come to the
conclusion from evidence on your own. You don't need a revelation. God doesn't bother
wasting his time revealing anything to you because he's already provided enough evidence
of how you should live your life that you can just deduce it philosophically from the world.
Now, the Christians took this idea and said, no, God reveals it in the text
therefore women should shut up, right? Like it's that kind of, so they take this principle
of it coming from God, twist it into defending revelatory
ethics, which has this basically fascist moral system
where you listen to what we say God said, forget what your eyes say, forget
everything that you see and everything you reason, forget evidence. If
God said it, or if we say God said it, remember, then that's
the right thing to do. So then you get like the first Timothy where women should shut up and not have
positions of authority, right? Well, God said it, that's it. And
Stoics would have been laughing their ass off at this content. It's like you don't have any rational
support that principle. And you look, compare this while that's going on,
right? At the same time, you have people like Misonius Rufus and Galen
even and other authors who are writing about, oh, and Gaius, there's an important legal
writer in the early third century called Gaius. We only
know his first name. But he wrote the Institutes, which is kind of like the foundation
of basically like a lawyer's textbook like intro law, intro to
Roman law, right? And there's sections and all of these authors
where they're talking about popular attitudes towards the inferiority
of women. And they're all saying that's bullshit. And the only
reason that we don't give women full equal rights basically is that
we don't want to. There is no rational basis for it.
There's no evidence. It's actually contrary to reason and evidence. But we just don't want to.
We just don't want to have women being equals with men. We run things and we want to keep it that way.
And it's kind of like the way they put it that way. You start to realize like, yeah, they kind of got it.
They understood, but they weren't saying like, oh, no, God said that women are inferior and therefore
should shut up and never have authority and not have equal rights and
not teach and all of that stuff. They didn't say that. They said, actually, yeah, women probably should.
The only reason we curtail the rights at all
is because that's just the way we organize society and run charge.
It's more of an honest way of confronting it. But they're admitting the principles are
underlying principles actually set the foundation for bringing women's
rights into the world. And so there's no foundation for that in the Bible.
So when we did finally give women's rights
and increasing rights, it's usually by appeal to the old philosophical
arguments from the Stoics like Musonius, Rufus, and Gaius and so on.
So this is what it's important to note that the Christians
are taking an idea that did predate them, which is the idea that God somehow morals do come
from God. But they don't come from, you don't have to believe in God
to get them because they're written in nature. No one can
claim to have a voice from God. Anybody who's doing that is probably lying
like God doesn't need to talk to you. God's already built the world. You just have the
evidence, right? And so God's not talking to you. And so that idea where
that you can use evidence and reason and that God arranged the world so that you can use
evidence and reason to determine what's right and wrong and how to run governments and things like that.
That was pagan and the Christians corrupted that and turned that into revealed law.
You know, Sharia, you know, Sharia law, you know what Sharia means?
Sharia means revealed. So in fact, any
Christian who wants the world to be governed by the Ten Commandments of the Bible,
they're advocating Sharia law. So if Christians don't like
Sharia law, they should realize that they're trying to push Sharia law on us.
So we don't like that. No, we want Christian nationalists.
Christian nationalists, let's be clear. Yeah, there's plenty of liberals, Christians on my side on this,
to be fair. But anyway, that's important to note.
How Christians stole the idea and twisted into selling something that was bad
for society, not something that was good for society. They kind of suppressed
all the good stuff. They had to be rediscovered in the Renaissance and reignite
new passions and new ideas. Then you get John Locke and then you get Thomas Payne and
so on. So let's go into a few examples
where, I mean, like it's always good to give evidence of
an argument or a specific morality, a particular code of
morality that Christians say, before this, pagans
were doing all sorts of crazy stuff. And in fact, it's in the early
church propaganda oftentimes where they're competing these ideas.
They'll use a reference and say, you guys, I mean, oftentimes when they're arguing,
they'll like throw it on Zeus, Zeus's behavior and things like
that to try and, you know, but as far as the actual practices
of the people, are there any specific examples you can go ahead and get into
with us that this is what the claim is, that Christians
say they are the ones now correcting the record, doing the better thing and we
have it, yet we find earlier Greek and
Roman or Jewish societies already doing these things.
So it wasn't a Christian invention or a Christian revelation.
Yeah, I'm putting two into the private chat. You can roll those links
over to the public chat. I'm not logged into the public chat, so
I won't see that, but let's see if I have...
I have two good examples that I think are really crucial.
There are more, I have more, but these are the first two to start with.
The one is Misonius Rufus, and that's the first link I've
thrown in. And Misonius Rufus lived around
the time of Paul, actually, lived into
the late 60s, maybe early 70s. That's when he flourished.
He famously tried to stop the Civil War that brought after the death
of Nero by calling for peace and stuff,
and no one believed him and listened to him.
But he was that big of a pacifist, where he was actually literally out there trying to stop
wars in the name of the philosophy of peace. And the other one is
an article where I talk about many other things, but in there is a section on Aristotle.
And I'm going to start with Aristotle because
it's often claimed that Aristotle... you'll hear from Christians that Aristotle
didn't teach any decent ethics, like he doesn't have any of the virtues
that Christians advocate. He doesn't have anything like
charity or generosity. They'll say that.
And that's literally one of his first virtues, his generosity. So here
I'll just read off the list. These are his eight cardinal virtues that he
thought that all ethics should be organized around. One was generosity
with money, time, and resources. He means generosity
in the biggest sense. Sensibility with money, time, and resources.
Be reasonable about how you allocate resources for yourself and others.
Self-regard, which he meant self-respect.
Have confidence in yourself. Do things
that you can feel good about. Don't turn yourself into someone that you hate.
Turn yourself into someone that you can respect. If you look out there and you see people that
you respect, then those are the people you should be like. You should have that kind
of self-respect. And then achievement. He said, you know, have goals.
Make something of yourself. That's one of his ethics in there.
Easiness, which is be emotionally even-tempered.
Be an easy-going, friendly person, essentially.
Don't be cantankerous and difficult. This is his ethics.
Another is friendliness. Another is cultivate friendships and be a good friend.
That was important to him. Honesty is on the list. Be trustworthy, reliable,
truth-telling. And charming. Be pleasant company.
Be a good guest or host. Witty and polite, etc. So that was his
kind of like Aristotelian, you could even say aristocratic
value system. But you could see everything there. Christians at one point or another have
pushed for. And there's really nothing missing from that list that we would actually want to
keep. So like if Christians say, oh, there's something missing from there that we should have
that we've brought, it's usually something bad. Not something like, you know,
obsession with being anti-sex, for example, things like that.
Wouldn't that be called as like asceticism in a way? Right. Yeah, asceticism
is definitely bad. And Christianity did try to push some of that.
But it's mostly like denigrating women and sexuality
very much. And also denigrating religious freedom.
You know, if you look at the Ten Commandments, most of them are violations,
the commandments to prohibit religious freedom and freedom of speech.
Right. So like it's all the bill of rights of the United States Constitution
is almost explicitly repudiating the Ten Commandments. The only ones
that it would allow the preservation of are the common ones, which is
just theft and murder, which and perjury, right? Theft, murder and perjury.
But those have always been illegal for as far back as we have laws, right? Like goes back
long before the Jews were even literate, right? Much less, we're writing
their own laws. So those things have always in all cultures been illegal.
That's not something that Christians brought to the game. Now what you'll
oftentimes hear, and I talk about this in the article that I linked to, is that
people will say, well, where's compassion on the list, right? It technically
is because Aristotle didn't see compassion as a virtue. He saw
it as an emotion. So compassion is something you feel and therefore it can be a
motive to be moral. But it is itself not a moral. It has to
be realized morally in an action. And that's why generosity is on the list.
That's why a lot of the virtues on his list are stemming out of the principles of
compassion, as well as principles of justice and honesty and things like that.
So the principles are feelings that motivate these ethical principles, the virtues.
That would be how Aristotle described it. And you can see like that's
what else does the West need, right? We could just go by this list and Aristotle's
reasoning and we'd be fine, right? We don't need Christianity. We could just
have done without all the harmful, toxic things Christianity gave us
if we just all became Aristotelians, right?
So that's one example. And in the Mussonius Rufus lecture, I
give others, and he's a stoic. He's a famous stoic, one of the most famous
stoics of the Roman Empire. And we only have fragments of some of his speeches.
And they all talk about things like turning the other
cheek, that reforming criminals is better than punishing them.
The idea that you shouldn't rely on the labor of slaves,
right? Like something as rudimentary as that. That's not even in the Bible. Jesus never
said that. Jesus says, yeah, you know, maybe you should just sell your slaves and not buy
anymore, right? Like maybe you should not rely on that. So it's not in there, right? But
Mussonius Rufus had a thing to say about that. And there's various others, like the
golden rule and all of that stuff. You can find that
forgiving your enemies and things like that. It's all in stoic philosophy already.
And so it's not really unique. The Christians didn't introduce any of this stuff.
So technically, another way of painting the picture is
if we hypothetically imagine
history was won by stoics. Some version of non-Christian
philosophy ends up rolling the empire. They run all the way
down and then we end up hitting the Enlightenment, whether it was earlier, as you might
suspect, it would have hit earlier than it actually hits in history. But
let's just say we hit the Enlightenment. These quote-on-quote
pagans would be saying, you owe us everything. We're the reason that you had the
Enlightenment. We're the reason they would say the same thing Christians
are saying, but they're the ones. Right, right. Well, actually
with one difference, because what you're describing actually did happen.
So I'm going to put another link in. This link is to
the Christian nation nonsense. It's an article I wrote. I actually gave this as a
speech on the steps of a state capital once.
And that's in the article. The article is expanding on the
speech. This is not a copy of the speech. It's just
discussing the things that I mentioned in the speech. And I brought up the Sharia law thing in there.
But it's the idea of comparing the Bible, Old Testament
and New, but particularly Moses with Solon of Athens, who
might be mythical person, might be historical. But either way, he was
widely credited with inventing these ideas. And whether he did or not, someone did
hundreds of years before Christianity. And he developed the idea of
democracy. And that's kind of like how we have democracy today. And he also has his own
Ten Commandments. And it's interesting to compare his Ten Commandments
with the Ten Commandments. Like his Ten Commandments are way better.
Even though they have one religious rule on there, which is honor the gods.
So it's not totally secular. It's still a better
Ten Commandments than what we get from Moses by many leaps and bounds. So that's
in there. I talk about that among many other things. But the significance
is that, and this is what I also talked about in there, is that
John Adams and other founding fathers. But let's focus on John Adams in particular, because
John Adams is one of the great founding fathers of our nation, the United
States. And he wrote a book, a three volume history
on the history of basically the history of government and democracy that
he claimed explained our constitution. These are the principles
that we use. These are the writers. These are the sources that we use to build
this nation. And you know what's not in any of those
three volumes? Moses. Jesus. They're not there.
There might be casual references to them, but there's no reference to the Ten Commandments.
There's no reference to getting any ideas about government from either the Old Testament or
the New Testament. What he does say, he has a whole big old section on
Solon and Athens. He says, Solon, look at these brilliant ideas,
etc. But the point that I'm getting to, he goes to others, like he talks about Aristotle.
He talks about the Roman, the secular Roman political philosophers.
He talks about Cicero. Cicero is very important. Who is
who was technically he's a skeptic. He was a middle
Platonist skeptic, kind of an eclectic philosopher. Had a lot of
affinities for Stoicism, but he wasn't himself specifically.
And then later the Italian independent
republics and then the UK, like the United Kingdom's history of
democracy. So those are the three volumes basically covered all of that.
And one of the things he says, and he's very adamant about this, he says it repeated over and over again in multiple
sources, not just these books. He says, when we built our principles
for founding the government, we did not rely on revelation
and we did not rely on like, he says things like that. We don't rely on
inspiration or revelation. We don't listen to God or any of this stuff. No,
we look at nature and we use reason and evidence to build what is the
best way of doing things. Well, who's he repeating? He's repeating the
Stoics, right? Like that's where that's exactly how the Stoics and their Aristotelians and so on
all said how you build ethics and how you build morality or legal systems. This is
you look at the world and you reason it out. And so that's his point.
He's saying, so he's basically saying what you were just saying is like, this is what
created the Western world, this great Western thing, the experiment that we have
is all of these pagan secular philosophers who saw what we saw,
which is that you should develop it from evidence and reason from nature and stuff
like that. So that's exactly what happened. It's just we had to
throw the yoke of Christianity off. And I think the key thing was that when
the American Revolution happened, they were just at the end of
decades long horrific religious wars. So like the Hundred Years War and all these other
like really, really destructive, violent, deadly, brutal
wars over religion. And so when you see all the anti-religious
stuff in the Constitution, the no religious test for office, the complete religious
freedom of the First Amendment, all of those things. And then even the Bill of
Rights where it repudiates a lot of the Ten Commandments, all of that is because they're
rebelling against Christianity. They're saying, you know what, Christianity has caught so much bloodshed
and has never gotten anywhere in building a government. We're going to cast
all that aside and we're going to build from basic principles, ground up, evidence and reason,
natural world, social contract theory, stoic principles.
Even when we look in the Declaration of Independence, it says, create nature's
God, right? Nature's creator is in there. That's stoicism, right? That's a reference
to exactly the stoic principles. It's not a reference to revelation, not a reference to the Bible.
It's a reference to, well, God made the world a certain way. Maybe we should pay attention
to how he made it and thus use evidence and reason to build our government, not revelation.
Explicitly, reject revelation. We could not use that and do not
rely on that as our basis. And so that is the pagan way of doing things
and the Founding Fathers did praise that as the way to build our nation and that is how we got
where we are today. So one nation under God,
this God that has been mentioned here is more
of a universal philosophical... That's not in the Constitution
or the Declaration. Okay, but I'm asking you like... You just
quoted a 1950s
anti-communist fascist who gave us
the Pledge of Allegiance, right? So the Pledge of Allegiance comes from the anti-communist
religious fascists, religious nationalists of the early 20th century in the
United States. It actually repudiated a lot of... The Founding Fathers
would be horrified by the idea of having a forcing kids to
recite a Pledge of Allegiance that had a religious test in it. They actually
prohibited that in the Constitution. You cannot have a religious test for holding any office
or office of president at least. And so that goes against
all their principles. So that's a late sort of fundamentalist, not necessarily fundamentalist, but definitely a Christian
introduction later. And because it's not encased in
the Constitution, that's how you know it was a late and not an early thing that they came
up with. So getting back to Stoicism, because this is
you bring up the observation of nature. You,
me, we've talked about this before, especially when you were encountering Israel only
on what was going on in Romans, especially at the beginning with morality
being encoded in nature. You can look around, etc. Paul's making this same point.
So he's being influenced by the philosophy as you're describing
in some ways. He might be a mixed bag between middle Platonism
and Stoicism in some ways, but at the end of the day, that's
like the going thing at the time it seems that he may be influenced by in these
letters. And my question is this, you'll see some of these like
apologists, they're Muslim apologists or Christian apologists. And then you have a
secular humanist like me or someone who comes in and goes, look,
I used to frown upon same sex relationships or other moral
quandaries that were like, whoa, that's a no, no.
And then you might go, well, in nature, it's pretty common. And then they go, well, nature
it's common when a mother kills the child. Well, I brought this
up to Natalia Reagan. Hope I pronounced her name properly.
She's a primatologist and an anthropologist. And she was
talking about this in a pre-record, which I'm still editing to get out.
And she said, yeah, that sounds great.
Yeah, she said, if you go into the primate communities,
and I'm saying the various bonobos chimpanzees, the list goes on and on.
In fact, when those things occur in nature,
they are not like, okay, you're just killing the child. It's okay.
Like they morally, these animals, we like to think we're different completely.
So I'm making the point for this video to say,
these animals are not
on the same page. There might be an irate father or mother that might have
infanticide occur. The rest of the community is not okay with this. And in
some communities, they're like hobo type.
They don't work. They don't try to like help and participate in the rest of the community.
And the others feel bad for them. And they still bring them food from
time to time. But they also murmur under the breath, like, get off your ass and do something
instead of panhandling the rest of us. It's so
human-like. And so I know I just went way, way back
to say you can see in nature an evolutionary
approach to how this stuff is constructed and societies start to build
at large. But I wanted your two sense of what you've observed
as you've been researching. Yeah. So two sides to that.
One is Misoni's Rufus has a story about that where he uses the same analogy
with birds. He says the birds don't reap or sow and yet they can,
they make sure all their kids have food. They don't store food.
They don't do any of the logical things, but they still can provide their kids with food and they make sure all
their kids are fed. Now, we can set aside whether that's true in nature or not.
But that was Misoni's argument, which is actually
a much more interesting and ethical argument than Jesus. When Jesus uses
the birds saying, he says, which he probably got from Stoicism. So he's probably altering
the Stoic doctrine or whoever wrote this, whether it was Jesus or not, doesn't matter.
When he says the birds don't reap or sow, his message is,
oh, God will just provide. Man will just fall from heaven, essentially. So God
will provide. He's not using a kind of like how you can provide.
He's actually taking the same parable and taking it to the opposite
sort of toxic premise. It's his idea that don't worry about things. God will take care of it.
No, that's not how society works. You're not going to get fed that way.
So that's actually bad advice, whereas Misoni has his version of it is good
advice. Now, let's assume that we can find
examples of infanticide among birds. Like I say, birds,
there are birds who kill babies and eat them, for instance. Not necessarily
alone babies, but they do. So
let's take that as an example. I've written on terms of philosophy
that we shouldn't use nature as a model, actually, in that sense. We don't
necessarily look at birds. We should act like birds. No, that's actually a stupid
idea. Birds are irrational and don't respond to evidence very well.
And even if you look at primates, there's a lot of behavior that's both
praiseworthy and you can learn from among the different ape species, but also a lot
that isn't. And that's because they're not as rational and not as evidence-based
reasoners as we are. We can do better than that. But you can still
look at, when the Stoics are saying look at nature, they don't mean let's do it, let's live like animals.
Kind of that's how the cynics, which is a whole separate school of philosophy
at the time, they kind of did say that. Let's just live like dirty
hippies, like the animals. That's kind of their thing, but no one like the cynics.
They were the dirty hippies of their society. And so
most people like Stoic philosophy or Aristotelian, etc., or even Epicurean.
And their view was when they say look at nature,
they don't mean let's emulate animals. What they mean is what Epicurus was
talking about, which is let's look at how the world works,
how it functions physically, and what is necessary
for us to have a good society. So given the way the world works,
given the way we're built and constructed, how should we behave to have good things?
And so then from that you can deduce, oh well we need
well organized societies, we need philanthropy.
That's actually one of the Greeks invented philanthropy
as a basic foundational principle that good citizenship entails
charity. Like you're not a good citizen if you're not giving back to the community
in important ways. Things like that. So that's
when they say look at nature. They mean in a more sophisticated philosophical
way. And they're right. Of course that's what Adam Smith
meant. Not Adam Smith, but John Adams. That's what John Adams meant.
When we look at what we have to do through evidence and reason, what we have to do
to have a good society, these are the things we have to do. So we have to
have democracy, we have to have religious freedom, we have to have free speech. Because if we don't
have those things, we'll look at all the fucking wars and destruction and injustice
and misery that results. We can get rid of all that if we would just
adopt these principles because that's how the world works.
So that's their idea, which is true. And I think naturalist philosophers, humanist philosophers
today still adopt that principle. It's the idea that we can look at the way the world works,
the resources we have, and our limitations and what sorts of rules should
we follow that it's good for everybody. And we still get that. You look at philosophers
like John Rawls where he's saying the best system is the one where
you design a system but you don't get to choose who you are in it.
And then if you think that way, what system are you going to build? Are you
going to build a system that treats the disabled like shit?
Well, you might be the disabled person in that system. So no, you're not. You're going to create a system
that helps them out because you might be one of them. So that's John Rawls's
theory, but he's doing the same thing the Stoics and the Aristotelians are doing. And the
Epicureans are looking at the way the world works and then deducing through reason what is the
best way to organize it. Not trying to wait for some message from God to tell them
how to behave. And that message from God method has never worked out
for the world. It's always been bad. There's never good stuff coming through there.
Even when it is good stuff, it's just a repeat and a rehash of the good stuff
that people could figure out on their own without it. And then it's mixed in with a bunch of toxic stuff
that's bad for society. And so the revelatory method is bad, but the reason and evidence
method is good. And that's John Adams all the way back to Aristotle.
That's the system that's been running in parallel for thousands
of years to the origin and development of Christianity.
I have two ideas I'd like to get you to tackle on. And before we
end up getting to questions and stuff, thank you for the super chats.
I appreciate the support. I'm really, really enjoying this discussion.
I think we're going to go a little deeper. And I don't want you to necessarily psychoanalyze,
but if you got to go for it, Dr. Carrier, I'm interested in knowing
why do you think there is a huge
push of this going on online between Christians,
non-Christians like Tom Holland, who are painting a
portrait, so to speak, as if, wow, we better thank Christianity
for all of this. And of course, I imagine
rooting for your own team if you're within the group, in-group, out-group kind of
ideas. But do you think that they know? Are there any people
that you know know this isn't true and they're still saying it because
I don't know, whatever reasons? Or do you think they're
BSing themselves into pushing this propaganda? What are your thoughts about
the reasoning behind it? Well, I don't know all of it. I haven't
followed everybody doing this. So I don't know the answer to that question.
I can speak to Tom Holland and a few others that are
so that you've got two different kinds of people doing this. You've got the Christian nationalists
doing it. First of all, it's not new. I should point out I've been dealing with this
rhetoric for my whole atheist life for the last 30 years basically. So
it's not new. And when you go look at my
article on the Christian nation nonsense, that goes back
already by itself goes back 10 years, right, more than. So
it's not new. But there's two different camps. There's the
fascist Christian nationalists, right, who are doing this.
Because they want to bring back
revelatory control, basically, they want to be able to have their own ideas
out of their head and they'll just claim they're endorsed by God to control society.
So they're the ones who want to execute homosexuals. They're the ones who want to
make women have secondary rights and things like that. They want to
get rid of gay people. They want to get rid of everything they don't like and suppress everything that
they don't like. So they have their own fascist agenda. And so
for them, they need to rewrite history to promote their, to say our agenda
is best because it's based on Christianity. And Christianity is a thing that gave us everything good.
That's the argument, right? It requires tons of lies. And I think most Christian nationalists who spew this are liars.
Not necessarily rank and file. The people who repeat what they say are just
dupes, right? They want this to be true. So they just believe it and they're not good critical
thinkers. So they don't fact check it. So they don't know that it's false. Or they don't even
want to know if it's false, right? Like they'll reject all evidence that it's false because they need it
emotionally to be true. So you have the top, top level liars,
and then you have all the masses of dupes that they fooled into doing this. So that's one trade.
Another is the Tom Holland group. You know, Tom Holland is a liberal, right?
So his idea, he's not a fascist, right? He doesn't want, he's anti-fascist.
But he wants to believe that Christianity did all of these things for some other
reason. Now I haven't really analyzed what his motives are. All I know is that he's factually
wrong. As to why he's factually wrong, well, that might, like you said, that might
require some psychoanalysis that I can't get at. But I haven't studied the liberal side of it.
So I'm aware that that trend exists. Tom Holland is an example. But
why they advocate that, I'm less certain. Why they think
they need to advocate that. And I can, I can propose one
hypothesis, which is in between these two groups, there's a third
group called the neocons, the neoconservatives. The neoconservatives
are secretly atheists, but their position is
that they should pretend to be Christian, because Christianity allows
you to control society. And if you don't control society, it'll go
to hell in a handbasket. So you need the Christian message, even though
it's false, literally false, you need it to keep people in line.
And so that's one view. More like a pragmatic thing. Right, a pragmatic
pragmatic. It's literally Plato's Republic. So this is what Plato
said. Literally in his book, The Republic, this was his entire model society
is that you have to make up a myth, like a religious myth that you'll govern the society
by. And then you have to kill or jail anybody who says the
myth is false, or tries to change it. Right, so you have to, and you have to
have guardians who know that it's a myth, but can't say
that publicly, they have to pretend that it's real to keep society in line.
So this is Plato's entire model. The Vatican, through the Middle Ages, even
today, is still built on the Plato's Republic model. Right, it's based on
I'll bet a lot of people in the Vatican know that what they're preaching is bullshit, but they're afraid that if they
don't preach it, society will go to hell in a handbasket. And so they have this idea
that's just right out of Plato. Now, is Tom Holland doing
something like that, where he's at least admitting to being an atheist, but he's trying to have us
cake and eat it too by saying, well, nevertheless, Christianity came up with all these ideas.
So we should get our ideas from Christianity. Right, so
it's still a how do I save society because evidence and reason I don't think is going
to cut it. I need to lean on something. And so I'm going to pick Christianity because I think it's gotten the best
outcomes. That's still false, because actually it's the other way around, like
the pagan ideas have given us the better outcome. If you got rid of all the stuff that wasn't
pagan out of Christianity, our society would be better, not
worse. And so I just think Tom Holland is wrong. I think
I don't think that he knows that he's wrong. I think he just is just wrong.
He's just a bad critical thinker. He's not actually a historian. So that's why he's
bad at history, which that explains that, right, at least. He's just
not a good critical thinker. So it'd be interesting if I could
get you and him on like for a discussion or something at some point moderated.
Yeah, totally opposite views on this particular
matter. But I would it would be interesting because while I haven't read the
minion, I have heard him reading like he's written something about Caesar Augustus
and I was reading it and I thought I was reading about Jesus
and he was showing like actually look how much Jesus
looks like in a political sense like Augustus in
the way that he's being described in these things. Oh, sure. Yeah. Healing diseases.
Tabularia. Yeah. All right. Yeah, Jerusalem and mythology. Right.
Yeah. Controlling weather, things like that. And just like in the mythology there
but that whole Roman imperial cult propaganda
and then of course the Christ propaganda that we find in the New Testament is like
there's something there. We've had several scholars like that make a case
on Mark having some type of interaction competing probably
with that. But I was like, okay, hold up. He's seeing this.
I've never read Dominion. So I can't really say.
Right. We've got a lot of super chats coming in. Is there any other evidence
that you can think of that's just a really big one that
was already established within Greek and Roman society before Christianity
arose? Yeah, there's one more thing. I'll throw the link in for another article
that you can report over to the, so it should be four article links now
in the comments. I'm adding the description of the video. Yeah. So this one's
the Christians did not invent charity in philanthropy and that's where
I go through all of the welfare system, both the ethical principles
and the legal principles of the Romans. So there's tremendous amount of charity
including entire charitable foundations. So they
actually invented the idea of the charitable foundation where you take a huge sack of money
and then you bank it and then the bank loans the money out
at interest and then from the interest it pays a
charitable cause indefinitely because it's a self-sustaining charity.
So they had these for medical, they had these for education,
they had these for feeding people,
they had it for bringing water to people. There's a lot of things that were solved through educational
and through charitable foundations and just charitable giving. So there's
a lot of this idea, there were ethical principles that you should give and there were also
political principles that it was the obligation of the elite,
the wealthy elite to build infrastructure for their city, for example,
that everybody benefited from, roads, aqueducts and things like that,
that it was their obligation to just do this and because
they had the money to do it and it was good for the people, it was good for the society.
So these ideas, the very word philanthropy comes from the
ancients, so they invented the idea of charity in this sense.
Christianity just took credit for it later on. I was like, oh, we invented all the charities.
So anyway, I have that in there and I think one of these four articles also
backlinks to my article on orphanages and
the orphanages are a Christian invention but they're actually a bad idea
and I go into why they were actually, orphanages represent a failure
of your system of taking care of orphans. The original
system and they actually had magistrates. So like in Greece and Rome,
people who were appointed as offices and paid by the state
were, their whole job was, their orphanage state, their whole job was to take care of orphans.
So it was a part of society's government is how to take care of orphans
and how they did it is they tried to place, they got orphans placed.
So they got them placed in adoptive families or foster families.
That was their main mission for, that's how you took care of orphans as you gave them a
family. When you fail to give orphans families, then you stuff
them into institutions like a prison and then call it an orphanage
and claim that you've done something good. No, we know now like lately
there's been a trend to get rid of orphanages. We know that they're systematically bad.
They're not the correct solution for orphans. We need to actually place them, be
more positively aggressive about placing orphans and families because we know that's the better
solution. That was the solution in antiquity but it was a solution understood by the people
and by the state. It was funded by the state and stuff. So it was actually a communal
charitable enterprise in that regard. So that's, all
that stuff is an example of how there's all this stuff existed before Christians came along.
It was actually way more sophisticated and had much more rational foundations
in the pagan system than it did in the Christian system.
One more thing that comes to mind. I was reading someone posted an article
on Facebook. I think it was an article. They said that Christians invented the hospital
and I thought, okay, that's interesting because
I was just reading some primary sources in my last documentary about
Asclepius temples and how their killer doctor type centers where they're kind of
a mix between the religious rites but also you didn't even need to necessarily
be. I mean early Christians went to Asclepius temples
according to a Christian scholar that I've actually talked to. Pauline
like Christians would have probably gone there when they got sick. Yeah, certainly early
on that you had nowhere else to go, right? Right. So when people say that
so that's another example. That's apologetics where there's word games being played
and this is a very common form of apologetics where you use words
to mean one thing but then you keep changing the meaning of the word without telling your audience.
So the word hospital, what does that mean exactly?
So they go around saying that Christians made hospitals. What do you mean by hospital?
Like normally when you go around telling people hospital, they have in their head a scientific
medical establishment designed for the care, for the scientific medical
care of people. You don't have in your mind a mere hospice where you just stuff people
and nurse them, right? Like you're sick,
lay here, we have a nurse who will take care of you, maybe you'll live, maybe you'll die, you know, good luck
basically, right? So that's just a hospice, that's not a hospital.
And it's important to note like the Asclepian temples
were primarily hospices so like they would come there for palliative care
because they didn't really have a lot of ways to cure you back then, neither did the Christians. The miracle healing
didn't really work and they didn't really have like the scientific medicine
was limited because they didn't have antibiotics yet, for example, right?
They didn't have vaccines yet and their surgeries were risky.
Let's put it that way. But they did
have some scientific medicine and the Asclepian temples did employ it
so there were a select number of people. So doctors would actually go to these temples and sometimes
get hired by them to apply their trade and they would scale their fees based on what
the patient could afford. Some states, some city states
actually had funds set up by the state to give permanent salaries
to doctors on the condition that they would treat the citizens of that
city, right? So you've got basically public health care already, right?
That's just the kind of thing that you're looking at. And so you had these kinds of
quasi hospices, hospitals all over the empire.
All the Christians did was put a cross on it and then
claim it was theirs. They didn't change the principles, they didn't
change the organization, they didn't change the architecture. They added nothing.
They just stole it and claim they invented it and that's what happened. Now when you talk about
really like hardcore scientific hospitals, like when you walk around say hospitals today,
the Romans had that and it was for the Roman legions.
They had these valetudinaria, which were badass,
a whole architecture was designed scientifically for the care of patients. They were staffed
by medical scientific doctors, surgeons like actual, like the whole,
exactly what you would think a hospital looks like. That was the Roman system.
And the legions weren't the only ones who had access to these hospitals.
So legionnaires, that was one of the benefits of joining the legions is that you get this badass
healthcare, right? But also like certain, like
higher ranking people could get access to them and slaves often could get access
to them. So they were sort of like, they weren't
necessarily universally available. But the whole, the system, the
concept of the hospital is totally Roman. And then in so far as you see any
hospitals like that later in the Christian era, they just borrowed
rift on the Roman system. And even they did not make them universally
available. If you notice like today, Christians boast about inventing hospitals,
can you name a single Christian hospital that treats all its patients for free?
Any hospital that is not just literally a for-profit hospital,
even if it claims to be non-profit, they are, there's
no way, there's no charity pouring in to fund these hospitals. They are literally charging patients
or governments on behalf of the patients taking money
to, it's a for-profit business really. It's just they claim it's non-profit. It isn't
really. So there are no, there's no such thing as a charitable Christian hospital
was, you know, it's a hospital, it's totally free. No one has to pay for it. Christian's charity just covers it.
No, that doesn't exist. The Christians did not invent that. They've never even
had it, even not even today. So that's, you know,
when Christians claim that we invented hospitals, they're playing word games with what hospital means
and they're also like fudging the facts as to where the concepts actually
came from. So two things. First comment is that
when Christians talk about we came up with and
we have and we monopolize and it's us and you are standing on our
worldview, I always think about that and I go
like you're telling me that you just like in a vacuum
came up with this and you're not saying you were influenced by Greek and Roman and Jewish
ideas that caused you really mostly Greek and Roman. They're mostly claiming
it comes from God, right? God inspired them. Either it comes from the Bible, but they don't
read the Bible. So they don't know it's not in there, but they'll just claim it is. That's the claim. It comes from the Bible
or it comes from principles and the Holy Spirit inspiring them.
Or it comes from the the ethics in the Bible and the Holy Spirit and only there
inspired them to come up with these ideas, right? And therefore if you took the Holy Spirit
and the inspired Bible and the ethics away, you wouldn't have them.
That's their message and therefore we should praise and go back to the Holy
Spirit and the Bible and stuff like that because without those things we wouldn't have everything
else. That's totally false because we absolutely would have all those things
anyway because the pagans already had it all, right? Like without any of this. Without a Bible
without revealed knowledge without anything like that. Okay, so then
to add to that comment and then my question is
I'm going to want you I want to reverse it and try and see if we could play the game of getting
you to think of one thing that you can give Christianity credit for
because because we've been back. Yeah, I struggle
with this. Yes, I'm going to let you do that. But hold on one second. Just want to make the comment.
Yeah, I have a book back here. You might have heard of it. Jews and the Roman
rivals. I've been quoting it for a while now. Goodness gracious. It's somewhere back here.
No, I'm not going to even hunt it because you'll see the back of my head forever.
Somewhere on my shelf. You've been in my office. You know what it looks like.
In the book, I love this kind of approach to history. This kind
of approach to studying religions and understanding their origins or like where these ideas come
from because she documents where this gets into that whole Israel only
thing that we dealt with. And I was trying to understand like what happened
in history that caused people like Paul to come up with a wild
interpretation that people who were not child children of Abraham
genetically or through lineage could become them. And
so why where did this inclusion to the people of
Israel come from? And she documents how the Jews saw the Roman
system. And then she quotes the Greeks who said the Romans were going to have the
greatest society in the world. They were going to be the best. And the reason is we
Greeks did not include citizens on the level that they did. They were
way more inclusive and creating and granting citizenship and like
making their family of Rome bigger. And
so the Jews were inspired competing, realizing we can't
beat this. We have to change our system. And so they reinterpret
much of the text that they're reading in their sacred scriptures
to incorporate people into the seat of Abraham. How do you do
that through the Numa? And now you have all this like wild
interesting reinterpretation to make it modeled there. Now
yeah, the Numa, the Holy Spirit, right? That's the
concept of the Holy Spirit also stoic, incidentally. So they
invented the idea that's the way God communicates with the world and senses
things, knows things about the world is through the fluid of the Numa. The Holy Spirit fills
the whole universe and permeates everybody. But he doesn't do it like he doesn't
talk to you like a person. It's just like he might give you like your
reason, like your ability to think rational. But he did it like Galen
says. He did it by physically organizing your brain to think like a
computer as Galen would understand it. So he didn't do it like through
revelation. He did it by organizing the nature of your, the structure of your brain and how
to think and stuff like that. And so that's how the Holy Spirit works in the stoic system
which is a much more naturalistic model. But in the
Jewish and Christian model it was God on high, literally inspiring
you with his own wisdom, sometimes with words even. Hence the prophets
are just the instruments that God plays, right? Like their words or God's words
and he's just moving them like puppets. That's the revelatory system. But
you can see how they both took the same concept of the Numa and but they ran
with it in different directions and use it in a different way to get their results.
Now the hard, hard thing to do here, Dr.
Carrier, because people are going to go, man, come on, you are just so
heavy-handed in antagonistic and
sometimes we are antagonistic. I have a chip on my shoulder a little
but is there something you can say, hey, you know what?
This was a clever thing that happened historically that Christians did
do. We've shown that they didn't do all of these other things. We've given
examples of why they just remodeled, repackaged existing models
in their own times and oftentimes it didn't work out as good as it used
to, it seems. What's something positive you could say
they've contributed? Yeah, I've really struggled to come up. I want to
find some answers to that question. I'm open to people's suggestions. I want to hear them
and that's how I got into the orphans thing because I thought maybe that was one but it
turned out not to be. Another one was music
where Christians will claim that they invented polytonic music.
They didn't. What they did invent was a very, very niche kind
of music called contrapunctal music, which is a really weird form of music
that hardly gets used. That's a trivial thing to claim
responsibility for. It's like Christians trying to claim
that they invented the surfboard. That's not revolutionized society.
They didn't anyway. They did not invent the surfboard. But they made a certain brand of a surfboard.
They put a little fin on it. I don't know.
It is hard to find an example of something.
I look at, for instance, to give you an example of why this is hard.
What I thought would be an easy one is they got rid of the gladiatorial contest.
Blood sport for entertainment.
I should say explicitly for entertainment. That doesn't work either. Anyway,
just having it near theaters and just having blood sport, getting rid of it
is something they did. Unfortunately, they replaced it with another form
of blood sport, which is extremely terrorizing, horrific
public executions. They developed some of the most horrific forms of execution
and made them on public display. What do you get? Everybody shows up
to watch the blood sport. They just replaced one blood sport with another
and then targeted political victims with it. That's not an
improvement. That's actually going backwards. Whereas if you look at
the height of the Pax Romana, the gladiatorial system then
was still brutal. It is boxing with swords
and death is an expected outcome. Definitely maiming and things like that.
Some of those are actually criminals
not for political reasons, but murderers and rapists and stuff.
A lot of them volunteered. They did it
for themselves. They wanted the glory. They wanted the
possible rewards. It's one of those game show systems
where everybody gets treated like shit, but if you can survive to the end, you actually get a brilliant prize.
It's a terrible system, but it was actually a little bit more humane
than the horrific public execution system that the Christians developed.
Even where you maybe have given them credit, they failed at it.
That's the kind of thing that I have a problem with.
I have a really hard time finding something that they
actually better uniquely through their own
principles. I can't think of an example. I have not found one yet.
You're telling me that Christians did not
give us the modern blood sport called football?
I don't think we can blame Christianity for that.
That's a good example of how the people who invented it just happened to be Christians.
It wasn't Christian principles that guided their construction of it.
You can't blame Christians for the brain injury.
We're doing horrible brain injuries. People
who are dying early, they're being driven to suicide. They're being horribly crippled
mentally by this sport. Everybody just cheers
on. We've kind of brought the gladiators back in a way.
No one wants to admit that, but we can't blame Christianity for that.
We can blame Christianity for not doing anything about it.
You can blame Christians for not speaking what Christ would say.
If you think gladiatorial contests are immoral, you should think football is immoral.
If that's what your principles are, I might argue with them
on rational basis, but if you're going to stick to your guns and be
a true, full-on pacifist Christian where people are not
to be maimed and mentally destroyed
for entertainment, if you actually believe that, then you should be
anti-football. This gets to the whole idea of a lot of Christians
don't actually do the things that they believe
their religion teaches them to do, which is a separate problem.
I can blame the Pagans for this too. This is something we didn't bring up before.
The Pagans had a lot of great principles and ideas, but they were bad at
implementing them. If you look at the Roman system, it became increasingly fascistic.
One example of this is that the Stoic political theory was that everyone should be
equal justice. Everyone should have equal access to justice. Everyone should be equal
before the law. This is very relevant now with the Trump trial era.
The president should not get you immunity from anything. You should be treated like anybody
else. But the Roman system
sort of started almost heading in that direction, but then they veered away
and they created separate legal systems for different social ranks. Even though their
principle said they shouldn't do that, the system did it anyway. You can blame the
Christians in the same way. Christians had a lot of principles that were good
even if they were borrowed from Pagans. It doesn't matter. They were still good principles, but they
did not implement them. You could take slavery as an example
if you pick all the sides of Christians, you say that you can find
messages in the Bible that should tell you slavery is wrong, even though it doesn't, but you can say
like the golden rule, for example. You take the golden rule and say that should entail
opposition to slavery. And you say, yeah, actually it should.
But just as the Roman system failed to do that, so did the
Christian system. In fact, the Christians made slavery worse rather
than apply the golden rule and get rid of it. But that's not
Christianity's fault as an ideology. It's the fault of the Christians
themselves being hypocrites and not following their own principles. And
you can make that same claim about the Pagans. They too did not adhere to their
principles. They made some shitty decisions about how to organize society for sure.
And the example I gave at the top of the today was
how they treat women. They knew inferiority and unequal rights for women
were not rationally justified, but they did it anyway. But they at least
admitted they were doing it against their principles. And at least some of them did.
I should say some of them would not have admitted that, but some of them did. Like the better of them did
admit that. But you can find that in Christian society. You can find
Christians like the Anabaptists and the Quakers who are like absolutely anti-war
but they're like minorities and then most Christians
are just, yeah, I fucking kill them and go to war. So the
tendency to war is not a product of Christian ideology. It's just how Christians
behave. It's possible to create a Christian system
where Christians don't behave that way. But Christians never liked
those systems and always rejected and treated them as outcasts and even went to
war with them. Let's say that you look at how Quakers and Anabaptists were treated
by the majority of Christians. It's very sad, sad history.
But you can say the same thing of the Pagans. So the Pagans were not better than the Christians
in this respect. It's like in terms of they had high principles, but they didn't necessarily
always implement them the way you would expect or want them to have done.
Thank you. Thank you. I would like to turn to Superchats
here. That's fine with you, Dr. Carrier. I'm sure some clever comments
and statements and questions will come up. So many things when we're talking
come to mind and you and me could go on and on.
So I really, I don't mean that. I mean that
seriously. And I'm like, okay, I need to share. I think we've covered the subject pretty well
up to now. And I think it's definitely absolutely time for questions and see
what is it that people want to deep dive into. Right. Right. Because I mean, all we do is
just get more into the specifics about how. More examples of the same principles we've
talked about. Right. Right. Okay. Q, thank you for the Superchat.
Imperative logic plus is it eudaimonia? Eudaimonia.
Yeah, literally good spirit. It means
it gets translated as happiness, but that's kind of a
translation because they don't have the same valences, the two words.
It means more like satisfaction, self-satisfaction, living a satisfied life.
You could say being in good spirits, I guess, like
you feel good about yourself. You feel good about the world. You're in a state of eudaimonia.
So it's not explicitly happiness, but it's something like that.
And that was the basis of Aristotelian ethics was the pursuit
of eudaimonia was the ultimate goal. And Aristotle's argument, I think it was right
actually about this is that everything we do, we do for a reason.
And you can take that reason, you ask, why do you care about that? And then you get an
answer. Right. You come up with a reason why you care about that. And he says, well, take that. That's the same question.
Why do you care about that? And then you, you know, you keep going down and down and down. What's at the
basement? What is the one thing that you like you want and you're pursuing for itself
and not for any other reason? And Aristotle finds that it's eudaimonia.
That's the one thing that we do everything for. And we would never sacrifice anything else
but for that. Right. And so I think he's right. I think there's a more
modern scientific way to put it, but he's basically got the right concept.
And so what he then does is, well, if that's the case, let's look
at the natural world and how humans are and how humans things and how interactions
work and stuff. What leads to eudaimonia and what doesn't and that's how he comes
up with his ethics. And so that's where you get imperative logic.
Aristotle system was not based on imperatives. It was a virtue ethics
principle. So it had implied imperatives. So like, if you were generous,
that implied that you ought to be generous. So he's saying
like, you ought to be generous as a, as a principle as, as your way of being.
And then that would lead to specific imperatives. You ought to do generous
things like you ought to throw some coins to a beggar. Right. Things
like that. Right. So that's how Aristotle organized it.
So imperative logic plus eudaimonia equals naturalism morality
in the, that's how the early philosophers are thinking of it. You can show the similar
line of reasoning, not exactly the same, but similar in the Epicureans
and the Stoics and so on. I have my own
principles set up where I bring what we know from sciences into it, which is important.
I think we need to update Aristotle with new science. We have lots of science about the
science of morality, both at the social level and at the individual psychological level.
So all of that is in my one, the one that I have the Aristotelian eight
principles, that link that went up in the comments. That article, I go into all the other
science, the modern science updating it. So my answer would be
yes, once we update Aristotle with modern science.
Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate that. Eddie M with the Super Sticker.
Thank you for the support, Eddie. Really appreciate it. Casey
Moe, Dr. Carrier is the goat. I recommend on the
historicity to anyone who will listen.
All right. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Yeah, seriously. Appreciate the support.
Yeah, I appreciate people funding this. We need more.
I would love to talk about more of these topics, not just Jesus all the time.
Yeah. So I am really, I'm so happy to be here talking about ancient ethics and
things like that and philosophy because I do a lot in those fields and other fields.
I'm not just a Jesus historian. So I'm always delighted to do this. And so yes,
throw some money at this guy, do some simpler chats, put money in there
so that he's encouraged to have me back on another philosophy
topic or another something that's other than just talking about Jesus.
But yes, obviously, I'm also, I do a lot of work on the history of
Jesus. And I appreciate people supporting that as well. Well, this
episode was going to happen, whether or not anyone threw money at it or not. Yeah, I know.
I just want you to be encouraged to do more. Of course. New
demonia, right? Everybody. But seriously, the question comes up a
lot. I see it a lot. And then you wrote this article and I was like, perfect timing.
I was like, let's talk about this because this is important. As a Marxist,
Mario, thank you for the super chat. I have to ask, so you're saying the problem with
the pagan philosophers is that they were two proto-libs. They were proto-libs.
They were, they were. Yeah, I think being a Marxist, I'm assuming he means
liberal in the more conservative sense of, so like Adam Smith type liberal.
The, not sure. It was the problem. I don't know. They weren't Marxists. That's for
sure. They were definitely property rightsists. Cicero invented the concept of
property rights. And in fact, our, our capitalist system today is built on the,
the stoic principles that Cicero advocated. It doesn't come from Christianity. There's
nothing. If you look at Christianity, it's, it should be Marxist, not just Marxist,
it's Stalinist. If you look at Acts four, I think it's Acts four, where there's Ananias and
Saffora, or you, there's literally, there's a line that says from each according to his means
and to each according to their need, almost exactly those words, not exactly, but very,
very close. Basically the Marxist motto is in the book of Acts. And two people who don't adhere to
it, who hold back their, some wealth, God strikes dead. So basically the message is,
be a Marxist or we'll fucking kill you. Right. So that's, that's the book of Acts.
You don't find that in ancient, ancient pagan philosophy. You won't find any examples of that.
The closest thing to it would have been the cynics who, but they were countercultural and
kind of anti-civilization, not, not really Marxist per se. I think really the principles of Marx,
the real principles of Marx. Now there's a problem with the 20th and 21st century is when people
talk about Marxism, usually the hate on it, they don't know what the fuck they're talking about.
And they're usually getting it wrong. Like, you know, Cuba and the USSR were not Marxist states.
Marx is rolling in his grave over those, those travesties. Same with China.
But, but yeah, if you looked at the actual Marxist principles, they're actually very revolutionary
in the sense that I don't think they have precedence. But I think the reason they don't
have precedence is because you could not have Marx without Adam Smith. It was the specific
philosophicalization of capitalism, giving it a philosophical foundation and having it
reach a certain level of civilized sophistication. Like now you've got the way capitalism works in
terms of accumulating capital and how it powers industry, like all of that stuff. You have to
actually, first of all, it has to actually be happening. Secondly, you have to actually have
a philosophy of it. So you have to actually see it happen and understand what's happening.
And then that philosophy under, now Marx could see all that, then he could say, you know what,
there's a better way to do that. And then so Marxism is building on that. So that's why I
don't think there's a precedent for it in ancient philosophy is because they weren't,
their capitalist philosophy was not sophisticated enough to even allow someone to see the things
that Marx saw as a possible solve for some of those problems. And so I don't think we can
blame them for missing vote on that. Everybody missed the vote on that until Marx did it. And
then since Marx, of course, there have been other Marxist thinkers who've improved on Marx. So we
shouldn't, we should no longer say Marx is the holy grail of Marxism, then we should say Adam
Smith knew everything and got everything right about capitalism. Right. So, but anyway, that's
my rant on that topic. I hope I answered the question. I don't know. Dr. Andy, thank you for
the super chat. Did Christians after getting powerful, Constantine the first ever have serious
academic discussions on whether it's moral to persecute non Christians, especially considering
they were pacifistic and persecuted themselves in the beginning? I don't know the answer to
this question. So I, I'm not aware of any examples. However, I have not. So my, my field is ancient
history. So my interest stops with theodosius around 340, 345, 395, 395 AD. But I'm less informed
on what happened in the fourth century and later in what you're talking about. Like, were there
Christians who were really speaking up philosophically against the idea of exile and basically
state murder and other forms of coercion in terms of religious beliefs? Certainly,
the majority and the elite were going in the other direction. That's why you get theodosius
actually outlawing other religions outright. Was anybody pushing back on that? I don't know.
They certainly weren't prominent enough for me to know of them. So if there are some examples,
they must be pretty obscure. Someone to ask would be someone who specializes in early medieval
Christian theology, in particular theology of politics. If you find anyone who's in that,
that's their specialty field, they might be able to call out some examples. And I would love to
hear about them. So if you find anyone who comes up with examples of that, like, like basically
resistors or opposers of this way of doing things, I mean, they lost the argument, but it would be
significant to know that they existed and what their arguments were. So I would love to hear that.
So if you do find that, if you find anyone who can answer your question for you,
send that stuff my way. My email address, you can find through Facebook or my website,
it's an about page that has contact page that you can find my email address.
Although the fastest way to reach me is still Facebook Messenger. It's open to all. So if you
have data to send me, I would love it if you just message me or email me.
Cool. Thank you so much, Dr. Andy. The mythic life, Kristen, thank you. Thanks for another
excellent show, Idaho, Inside Joke. I was driving through Idaho and moving and
I was messaging her and then it ended up being a funny inside joke. Thank you so much for the
support, my friend. Sid, Dave, when people believe that morality comes from God, which God do they
mean? How do believers explain the presence of morality in groups who believe in other gods
or gurus like Buddhist Hindus? Right. Well, there's two different kinds of Christians,
I guess, in this respect. They're the ones who just deny that those other religions have morals.
And of course, they're just factually wrong. And then there's Christians who will argue,
and this includes like some of the conservative Catholic theologians of today,
would argue that the Holy Spirit works through everyone. And so that the message of the morality
of God gets even into the hearts of Buddhists and Hindus, they're just mistaken about where it's
coming from, right? Is there, it would be the way that they would argue that. And that's also
Intersectarian. So Baptists will tell, will say to Catholics that they're getting the,
they're getting some correct messages from God and some of the things they think are coming from
God aren't coming from God. It's the same God, but they're just wrong about half the stuff that's
coming from God, right? So it's, or they're wrong about which God, right? You have the Jehovah's
Witnesses who are anti-Trinitarian and the Catholics who are ruthlessly Trinitarian.
They, they do not believe that the Catholics won't even admit that Jehovah's Witnesses are
Christians, much less worshiping the same God. So, but they explain the fact that they do have
overlapping morals in the same way that the sum of the true Holy Spirit always leaks through,
even if you've got Satan or human error or something masking it.
So many things come to mind. Thank you so much, Sid, Dave. I appreciate the support. Q, again,
Numbers 5, 11 through 31, contains a certain sympathy magic ritual. How clean do you think the
dust of the floor of the Tabernacle was? Yeah. So this is a reference to the potion. I think
it's the adultery potion, if I'm remembering correctly, where, and I can't remember the exact
procedure, because I can't remember who can request it. It is significant, like, is, can the
woman ask for this, or can one of the men, I can't remember. But, so I've read some things about
this, and even I've read like some Talmudic passages about it. The scholarship, it even takes
its cue from some suggestions in the Talmud. But the usual explanation today is that the ritual is
bullshit. It describes doing this. So it's trying to describe something that's gross,
right? Because the floor of the Tabernacle is actually covered in, like, it's just basically
a slaughterhouse. So basically, like, you can go in and lick the floor of a slaughterhouse,
and just the fact that you're willing to do that, and would, is it of itself, kind of like,
okay, like, if she believes it that much, we're going to let her go. But the principle, I think
the principle is that the rabbis actually are doing the judgment here. And this is a common thing that
you look anthropologists talk about shamanic rituals are similar, like, how do you test people with
these weird, like, it's the idea like, like the witches float or not, but they'll do like these
weird tests for whether you're possessed by demons and stuff like that. But what the result of the
test is totally controlled by the giver of the test. So the rabbi can decide what to give her
to drink. He can just fucking give her hemlock, right? So if the rabbi thinks she's guilty,
he can just give her any poison that he wants. And then, and then now we've got, oh, the ritual
worked, God has pronounced judgment, yadda yadda. If he thinks he's innocent, she's innocent, or
doesn't want her to be punished, even if she's guilty, then he can just give her something innocuous.
And then it's so it's that kind of thing where the the Bible is saying one thing, it's like neocons,
the the thing the Bible is saying is meant to dupe the public into behaving. But really,
it's all manipulated by, you know, Oz behind the curtain. And so it's really fake. But that
that's very common in world religions, so that there's not actually that the ritual specifically,
and there is unique, I don't know if any other works that way. But the concept of how the ritual
functions, like the skeleton of it, you see that come up again and again in different religious
cultures. I can't remember which rabbi or where it's at somewhere in the Talmud, I think, where
a woman is brought by her husband, because I guess I don't know if he thought she didn't have her
hymen at the time, you know, you know, how they thought back then. Oh, yeah, no, it's in the
it's in the Bible, like, you have to publicly display the bloody sheets, right? Right. Yeah,
yeah, horrific. Like, this is a really horrible society, I have to tell you, like, right, if you
don't bleed, which, by the way, like most virgin women don't. So, like, does her husband like
secretly cut her so they can get some blood on a sheet so that she doesn't get stoned?
Like, what is what kind of horrific things are really happening exactly in this? But yeah,
that's that's literally you had to publicly display it to prove that she was a virgin and
not kill her, not kill her, like that's it's to prevent her from being killed. Right.
What you're describing the rabbi would have her sit on a barrel of wine. And if you could smell
the wine coming through her out of her mouth. That's a good example, right? Because that's
entirely he can chuck and he can fucking say whatever the fuck he wants. He could go. So,
right, exactly. You're not a virgin. Right, right. He can choose. And so it's really just
creating this sort of pretext to make it seem like God is deciding, but really it's the rabbi
deciding. And so that's yeah, that's an example of exactly that kind of that kind of ritual.
Thank you. Mahindra Acharya. Thank you for the super chat. Tom Holland, newly
Christianized Anglo imperialist. Yeah, that might be a fair point. Yeah, I yeah,
Anglo imperialist. Yeah, okay. A liberal Anglo imperialist. That would be an accurate description
of Tom Holland, I think. Thank you. Thank you. For Rocker. When can we get Richard C. Miller
and Richard Carrier together for a video? The discussion would be amazing. I'd love that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I still I tell people I recommend the book
Resurrection and Reception. Reception, Resurrection, Reception and Early Christianity.
Fantastically thorough set of examples of apotheosis tropes and things like that.
Really good book. We're going to make it happen. We will make it happen, friends. Don't worry.
I would love to know what he's working on. So like if he's working on something interesting
and he wants to talk about it in front of everybody, that would be fantastic. So I don't
know what his latest project is. He's I don't know. I don't know. Well, he's gone on record
saying that he at least he's mentioned this much that he wants to cover the early Christians
in a way that is different from what the historical propaganda we've been given is.
Oh, yeah, yeah, totally. That's definitely his jam. And I just I just mean like specifically
what's he working on now? Yeah, find out like see if he's working on something and he wants to
like chat about it. Okay, I'd be happy to. Thank you, Robert Mahaney. Thank you for the support,
my friend. Appreciate that. Far from Socrates. Thank you for the super sticker. I really appreciate
that. Nice. I don't see any comments under these and there's two categories on StreamYard. So I
can't see if you like super chat it and then you wanted me to see a comment. I apologize. So
there's too many comments. Revilo 178. Christians didn't advocate abolishing slavery as such,
just being nice to one's slave. As did Seneca, a pagan stoic. Am I wrong? They didn't really do
that even. So you have that really there's only there's no reference to being nice to slaves.
Like anywhere there except there's filament is is Paul is asking for someone to be nice to a
specific slave, not to slaves generally just to a specific slave and only because that slave was
very helpful to Paul. So it's very it's not that there's not really any theology there in that
respect. There's there's some discussion of obviously Christians shouldn't be beating their
slaves simply because they shouldn't be engaging that behavior at all. And they shouldn't be like
raping their slaves because they shouldn't be engaging that behavior at all. It's not specifically
directed at slaves. It's just that your ethics you shouldn't be doing that right just in general
to free people or slave. So you do get that in the Epistles of Paul, but Jesus never talks about
how to treat slaves as portrayed in the Gospels anyway. Yeah, so to what extent did they
teach being nice to slaves? Nothing in fact nothing more than the pagans already did
and substantially less actually. So when the Christians actually the worst thing the Christians
ever gave the world probably the worst thing that the Christians ever did to civilization
is that they invented the system of antebellum slavery developed out of the exploitation of
Africa. So they created racism in the modern sense. And so during the age of explorations this is a
famous saying by W. E. B. Du Bois said this is that before the explorations he means like 15th,
16th century before the explorations there were no white people. And his point being is that the
concept of a white person did not exist. So like they were tribes like there's Germans and French
and stuff like that and they happen to be white. But the idea of all white people being a people
because they're white that was invented to create the system of slavery. And so now we have black
people, we have white people, white people are on top, black people are slaves. And that was
all system designed to support this exploitation of Africa for a massive, massive scale of brutal
slavery. And the laws of slavery were far worse than the laws of slavery under ancient Rome.
It was the most brutal system of slavery ever devised in human history. And that was the
Christians who did it. Like hardcore Christians, Catholics all the way up to the Vatican created
that institution of slavery. So no, I don't give Christians credit even for that. They did it
worse, much worse. And they also added serfs as the concept. So they actually, Constantine famously
created the concept of a serf by taking free farmers and declaring them functional slaves.
So as befitting free men, it's in his decree, very Orwellian, they can no longer leave their
land, they can no longer change their jobs, and they must always give a percentage of their
share to their Lord and do what their Lord says, etc. And they can be bought and sold with the land.
So they're basically slaves. They're just tied to land and tied to a profession,
but they are functionally slaves. It turned millions of free people into slaves with a
whole new slave system that created the entire medieval feudal system of the abusive serfs for
the rest of, you know, less than a thousand years. So another example of Christians making
everything worse rather than better. So no, I don't give them credit for that.
Wow. Thank you so much. Sid Dave again. West deserves credit for abolishing slavery,
giving equal rights to women, and for giving non-Europeans equal rights in their society.
Not sure how much of it is due to Christianity, but a great achievement.
Oh, yeah, I grant it. And I don't, yeah, you can't give credit to Christianity.
You can't explicitly give credit to pagans because they didn't do it either.
But you combine the principles, the underlying principles of the pagan philosophical systems,
and the Enlightenment adaptations of those things, the development of those things,
put those together, and then it did lead to these natural developments. It took a really
long time. When the Constitution was signed, women still didn't have the vote,
and slavery was still an institution. So it took a while. But yeah, it just
exemplifies the fact that we're going in the right direction, and a lot of other countries
didn't until they got the ideas from us. So all the countries that have led towards
increasing rights for women and abolishing slavery and all that, they got those ideas
from the West, but it took the West fucking long time to come up with those ideas by themselves.
And we did some of the worst of the other side of it too, like the worst slavery,
some really terrible treatment of women and things like that. But
yeah, so we can credit Western civilization, and I do think it's Enlightenment values
that fall to it, and those aren't Christian values, but they are uniquely Western. I don't
know of any other society that independently came up with them. Thank you. MP, thank you for
the super chat, my friend. Appreciate that. MNAG in the house. That is the most annoying
thing about Christianity. They think all good things were invented, or yeah, invented and put
in place by God. So are you just as annoyed? Yeah, I know, as a historian, I just get annoyed
by when people say things that are false, historically, right? We should, as educators,
be telling people the truth about history, not making shit up that isn't true and
miseducating and disinforming people. That annoys me in general, not just in this specific issue,
but broadly in every case. Thank you so much, MNAG, always being here. Everybody, thank you for
the super chat. JC, how familiar is Dr. Carrier with ancient Christian iconography, specifically
concerning griffins, geese, apces, and vesica pisces? Yeah, no, that's not my field, so I can't
help you there. Particularly because that's medieval. What you're talking about is mostly
medieval stuff. So iconography in general is not my specialization, but especially medieval
iconography is not my specialty. So you would need to find someone who specializes in medieval
history and who specializes in iconography or art, medieval art would be the specialty to look for
if you want to find someone who could answer whatever question you want to ask about it.
Thank you. Appreciate that, JC. Far from Socrates's back, thanks for all the hard work and amazing
and interesting work. Yeah, thanks. Yeah, I appreciate it. Thank you, thank you. JC, again,
are the volutes of the proto-Elec? Eolic. Eolic columns of the city of David related to Phoenician
Tree of Life imagery. This seems related to the Magdala Stone. Yeah, that's pre-my era. So
that's also something I don't know about. So you'd have to find an archaeologist who specializes
in those eras and those particular regions and subjects. Yeah, thank you so much. Hard work.
When will there be another carrier MVP course? We have them ready to edit.
I don't know that answer, but this year we'll have something out for sure. Yeah, there's a bunch
in the can. So they're just waiting for, you know, Derek's super busy, he's running a whole channel,
he's got a ton of other things to do, and other courses he's building for other people.
So, yeah, like I, you know, it'll come out when it comes out, but you will find out about it through
this channel and through, well, I assume you are Patreon as well, right? Yeah, I'll notify.
Where if people want to know when one of these drops, what should they watch? What channel
should they watch to learn that? I would imagine here, or you could be a patron, and of course,
I'll notify everybody there, or you could literally go to MVP and sign up for a course,
become part of the email list, and then every time we launch, we'll, we'll send out, hey,
here's the latest, greatest, but Ryan has got to, she's got to edit that next course, and I think
she's got a couple other courses right now that she's working on, but once she gets one. Yeah,
yeah, so right, they're in the can, they're just waiting for editing. Also, my channels will announce
when one comes out, so you'll find it on my website, my Facebook feed, my Twitter feed.
When it drops, you'll know if you watch any of those. Yeah. Thank you so much. A Post-Aid of
Mind podcast. Appreciate you for being here. Subscribe to the YouTube channel. What about
the university system? One of my professors in Seminary Native... I did put a link to that one,
did I? Yeah, okay, I've written on this too. Let me, let me see if I can pull that up. Okay.
I think I have a separate article on it.
Yes, there it is. The ancient Romans essentially did have universities. So I'll throw this in
the private chat if you can port it over. Okay. Oh, I'm dropping another one before that. So the
second one is the one that we're talking about now, but before that, I just dropped another one to
pull over. Vridar, the website Vridar, excellent, excellent website, has an article on Tom Holland
that it has a bunch of source materials. It's a fantastic resource on debunking Tom Holland.
So people who want to go into the Tom Holland, yeah, there it is. So definitely grab that if
that's your interest. But back to the question is the university. So the Romans actually
invented the concept. This is another one of those, that's the hospital. What do you mean by
university, right? So a university system, what exactly are you talking about? If you just mean
like an institution that has multiple professors teaching multiple subjects that is funded and in
one place, that's, that's the Roman Empire. They had, they had several such universities like that.
Now, if you mean the modern university system, which is kind of different,
and the reason it's different is because it evolved in a much crazier, weirder way.
I don't know if people know this, but what originally happened was that you had a bunch
of teachers separate from each other, and students would go from teacher to teacher
on their own and learn things. And this system, well, you'd get exploitation or you'd get
dissatisfaction and so forth. So you had these student riots and the students started forming
unions to basically pressure the sort of organizing pressure the teachers to actually
conform to what they wanted as a customer. And this sort of created the earliest form of the
university was this, the teachers and the union, the students got together and decided to sort of
create a sort of contract that would be a common system with common rules. And then eventually,
those got more organized. And then once they were organized and started teaching things the church
didn't like, the church stepped in and said, no, no, you can't do this unless we run it.
And so then they took over the universities and so on and could control what was taught there.
And so that's how the modern university system arose. And then it got more and more sophisticated
and institutionalized as they became more and more capitalized over time. As they grew in resources
and size and wealth, they acquired all of the organization and sophistication that we recognize
as a university today. But there was no directive by no Christian said,
the Bible says we should have universities and then create a university. The universities were
an economic accident that caught the Vatican by surprise. And the best they could do is try and
take control of it. And that's how universities came about. They were not inspired by Christianity
at all. They were inspired by just ordinary capitalist economics, essentially.
Hmm. Thank you. Hey, man. Hey, man, forgive me if I butchered that fun fact. Jesus is actually
Zeus. His original name was Jesus. Thanks for Zeus, but someone misread it and it's stuck.
If only, if only, right? Fair warning. That's not the case. But for true etymology,
Zeus, so in Greek, it's Zeus with a D comes from Deus, which you'll recognize as the Latin.
It doesn't come from that. Deus, the Latin for God, and Zeus come from the same root.
It goes back to divas or day was, which were sky spirits. And hence divas comes from the same.
It's all from the same root, proto Indo European root. So Zeus actually isn't a name. It's just
God, the generic word God, just like a law is not the name of a God. It is just Arabic for God.
So Zeus isn't even really a name, which is, you know, kind of funny.
Thank you. Thank you. Matt Lambert got the Lambert going on here. What sources can I point a friend
to that shills for Holland? Sorry, that shills for Holland. Hang on a second.
Okay, that's a bogus call. That shills for Holland. I don't know, actually. Maybe people
in comments have run into some of these. The, I don't know if, for instance, I would expect
Tim O'Neill to shill for Holland, but I don't know if he actually does. I'm not aware of,
I don't read Tim Holland's blog. So I don't know if he has a Tom Holland.
Well, I think, I think they're, you yourself, you run into it on just on like Twitter and Facebook
and comments, right? Like that's when you say, right, people come to you, it's just out there,
right? And that happens to me. Like, so for instance, I guess, well, I guess this would count.
Here'd be an example. I did an article on Shapiro recently on the free argument from Free Will,
and then that led to another article I did, which was where there was three dudes,
and it was Tom Holland, and I can't remember the other two right now, but three guys sitting,
just pontificating at a conservative website. Now, that wasn't specifically about Tom Holland,
because it was three guys, but it definitely was shilling Holland, right? So like, in fact,
it was designed to shill Holland, as well as the other two guys. So if you find that article,
if you just go to my blog and search for Tom Holland, but all my articles about Tom Holland
will come up, there's only two. And one is the one we threw, I think we threw one,
maybe we didn't throw it in the comments, but you'll see there's one just me talking about
Tom Holland. But then there's another one that's Tom Holland and a bunch of other people or two
other people. And that's an example. And that was, I think, at the Brookings Institute or something
like that. It's definitely a propaganda website, definitely a deliberate piece of propaganda
as a video. And so that would be, I think, meeting your, what you're looking for. That's
an example of that. I was reading this as the opposite and saying, like, what kind of sources
can I give to a friend who's shilling for Holland? That's like, what kind of friend that
shills for Holland? Well, the stuff we've been putting up. So this is all in the video now.
Yeah. The Mr. Deity videos are a good one. My one article about Tom Holland, maybe,
is a good one. But I would focus on specific things. So if someone's shilling Tom Holland,
I would say, get them to be more specific. Like, what are you, what claim exactly? And then once
you have a specific claim, then you can go to certain things. So like, I have my article on
ancient charity. I have my article on the foundation of modern government. And so I have
specific subjects. They're not all in one place. That would be my recommendation,
only because I've done thoroughly researching things and put a lot of resources, citations,
and links. So they're good platforms for you to go find other stuff. The Writer article might even
be the best one to send. Because that Writer article that we just put up, I think we put it
up in comments. Yeah. Oh yeah, because it was just showed it on camera. I put it in the description
as well. Yeah. That's a good one. Maybe that's the first one to send them to. Because it has
some bibliography. It can basically breadcrumb them to whatever it is they want to look into. But
my work, too, on this, I think between those two, I don't think anybody's, and Mr. Deity,
I don't think anybody's gotten this detailed into Tom Holland and debunking his claims.
I'm literally adding Mr. Deity to the description as well.
Because, yeah, I enjoyed that. That was a fun, he's sarcastic, too. His videos are
intentionally humorous and entertaining. But it's a good, pleasurable way to convey the
information that they contain. Here, I'll have to add that in a second. So yeah. And just to show
everybody, if you go to his YouTube channel, Stop the Steel is, look who shows up. And who took
that picture? They must have. So yeah, there's Dumbinion. He's just being funny here. Yeah,
that whole series. So the Stop the Steel series that goes into that in detail, it links it,
obviously, you can tell from the title, it links it to other subjects, not just Tom Holland.
But his whole point is the whole, he's going after the whole Christians invented everything
industrial complex. So he's dealing with the Christian nationalists, as well as the Tom
Hollanders, right? So like, it's two different, like he's covering all the bases, basically. But
yeah, Tom Holland is covered in there. Thank you. Thank you. Mario again is back. Thank you so much.
Translating Sapolsky into compatibilism. He might say, we can max people's free will by meeting
their needs, not heaping praise, blame on them. Thoughts? Yeah, so this is off topic. But one
maybe, maybe we'll do it sometime. I don't know. Because one of my specialties is free will, the
philosophy of free will. And I'm a compatibilist, which means that I think free will, as we actually
apply it in the courts and things like that, is compatible with determinism, causal determinism.
So usually people think they aren't compatible. But there's a whole field of philosophers who
are compatibilists who think that the idea of free will being contrary to determinism is
kind of an ivory tower fabrication, doesn't track the real use of the word in institutions where
it matters. Anyway, back to the question. One of the reasons that we know free will is not
contrary to determinism is that you can have more or less of it. And the more or less of it you have
is measured by your degrees of freedom. How many options do you have? And when you're very poor,
you have very little options, like very few. And so your free will is much more constrained.
So if you want to maximize freedom, you want people to have more free will. And this is
especially important for those Christians who keep using free will as if it's so important
that God has to allow the world to suck just so that you can have your free will. So if you think
it's that important, then you should believe in giving people more free will. And to give them
more free will means giving them more resources or more access to resources. There's multiple ways
to do this. Modern Western societies do it by, except for America, but other Western societies
do it through public health. So they have national health care systems. Even Mexico has a
national health care system. Americans are behind. We're more primitive than that's Mexico.
So anyway, so national health care is an example. Other like safety nets, various kinds of things
like that, and ways of investing in people. Now, one of the big ones that I have actually been
advocating lately, I'm on the side of, well, there's a presidential contender recent, Yang was
advocating it, universal basic income. And there's actual science backing the fact that if you had
universal basic income, it would actually be good for economies because it would free people up
to be able to be more entrepreneurial and actually more productive in the economy.
So it actually gives you more options and more freedom. And so your free will can be more
exercised, the more resources you have access to. And one of the things that's inherent about
capitalism is that it's almost designed to restrict people's freedom by restricting their
options, basically, and thus be able to control labor. And so they give labor so few options
that their only option is to take a shitty job that they hate and then treat them like shit
and pays them like shit and stuff, because they don't have any options. There's no free will there.
Contrary to the basic principle of capitalism, which is that you're supposed to have
more freedom in a capitalist society, but you actually end up with less.
And there's a kind of reason for that and so on. So yes, I do think if we organize a system,
the more we organize a system to increase people's free will by increasing their access to resources,
the better, and the better for society entirely, not just for those individuals.
Thank you so much. J.C. again says, do think the red seraphim or of the cherubim equals saffron?
I don't know anything about that.
Can't comment on that. I don't know if that's even a reference to you.
Thank you. I'm sorry, J.C.
Imnag, Ralph Ellis suggested that early Hebrews were actually Egyptian. What are your thoughts on
this, if any? Ralph Ellis is a crank. So I would not listen to cranks. I would listen to actual
historians. And there's a lot of history, a lot of published peer-reviewed history on this.
The evidence is overwhelming that the Hebrews were Canaanites. They were actually just
they came from where they, what they called the Holy Land is where they came from. They
didn't come from Egypt. They didn't come from anywhere else. And even insofar as they adopted
anything from Egypt, it was their own adaptation from a neighboring society, just as they adopted
things from the Babylonians and from Ugarit and other societies around them.
They borrowed things, but they themselves are just always there for as long as their language was
spoken there. However, Hebrew language is Afro-Asiatic, but then so are a lot of languages
that are in the Middle East or Afro-Asiatic languages. It doesn't necessarily mean that
Hebrews come from Africa. It just means that their language comes from Africa in a very deep,
multiple-level sense, in the same way that our English comes from the Caucasus, even though
there's no one in the Caucasus natively speaks English. So you wouldn't say that therefore
the English came from the Caucasus, like that would be a silly statement, even though the
language traces back to there and Indo-European. So you could go all the way like you've got the
Indo-Iranian and the Indo-European region that sort of steps this Russia is where the root comes
from, but that's not where English people come from and therefore it's not where the Hebrews.
The Hebrews don't come from Africa because their language goes all the way back to Africa
in the same sense that our language goes back to proto-Indo-European. These are just terrible
lines of reasoning that don't hold up in any other case and so they don't hold up in this case either.
Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Andy's back. Was the opposition to pleasures of the body in Christ
mainly caused by Paul, Plato, Plotinus, or Plotinus?
Plotinus, yeah. Or Aristotle. Or Aristoles?
Aristoteles, which is the actual Greek pronunciation of Aristotle, or only Saint
Augustus. I think you mean Augustine, not Augustus. Saint Augustine, who's the early
fifth century writer. Well, I wouldn't say Augustine himself invented the idea and is responsible for
it. The reason his writings were so influential and popular is because the ideas that he was
spreading were already being promoted by other people and were very popular. Yeah, the pleasure is
yeah, does it come from Paul? I'm trying to think. The short answer is it predates them all,
right? Like it's a Jewish concept, right? So it's coming from a Judaism that's already sexed
integrating and already guilty about pleasure. And so it's in Judaism already and Christianity
comes out of that trend in Judaism. So it comes from there. Insofar as they just lifted ideas to
defend it from all these other authors listed. Yeah, absolutely. Wherever they could find
resources to defend their weird twisted worldview, they grabbed them and used them.
But they didn't originate there. They really comes from Judaism and particular wing of Judaism
that Christianity evolved out of. Thank you so much. Inquisitive mind, who is more moral? Hashem,
Christian God, or Allah? Well, what's Hashem? I don't recognize that. I think that's Yahweh,
specifically. Yahweh is the name of that God. But that's a Canaanite God.
In their stories, Allah doesn't really get a lot of stories about him. And really, the Quran
sells him as Yahweh, right? It's like the Old Testament is also Allah's doing, right? So the
prophets speak for Allah. So the Old Testament, that Yahweh is Allah. Allah just means God, right?
It's not a name. Yahweh is a name. So who is more moral? I would have to say of the three,
the Christian God is, but only because the Christianity, the Gentile Christianity that
became the Christianity we know, cut loose most or a lot of the stuff that was particularly the
Old Testament God. So they got rid of the vengeful, you know, hold up the bloody sheet God.
But they didn't entirely, right? So like this practice of, for example, the practice of a
woman having to show the bloody sheets to prove she's a virgin or else she gets killed,
that still happens in Africa in both Christian and Muslim societies. So they didn't get rid of all
of it. Their God is still the same bastard of the Old Testament. But at least some sects of
those got rid of that God. And so did reform Judaism. So like the Jews got rid of that God too,
but not all the Jews, right? Some Jews will still believe in the asshole God of the Old Testament.
So there isn't really an answer to that question because none of these gods exist.
And all of these gods are reformulated in different ways, in different sects. So there's
good Allah's and bad Allah's and good Yahweh's and bad Yahweh's and good Jesus and bad Jesus.
And they're all constructs of different people. They're like, so all I can go off is the text.
So insofar as all three of those gods are the same God of the Old Testament,
they're all fuckheads. And I don't think you can really say that any one of them is nicer or more
moral than the other, because they're all the same God, right? Except in the contrivances of later
humans rewriting the text and rewriting their own imagination is what God, what they think God is
and what he really did and stuff like that. So, but if all would go by as the text, they're all
the same God, and that God is pretty, pretty horrible God. By any comparison, it's hard to
find a God in society in any other religion in any other region that is as bad a person as Yahweh.
It's pretty horrible. I have a link on this. Let me find that real quick. I have
24 examples of this of how God Yahweh is the worst, the worst, the worst. And
let's see where I have that 24 ways. Let's see. Here it is. The will of God, 24 evil Old Testament
verses. I'll put it in the private chat and you can port it back over. I'll put it in the description
for anybody who's interested in reading up further. So, yes, I just put it in there just now. I list
24 examples. And like I said, I have yet to find a God in any other culture in any point in history
that is as evil as the God that these passages portray.
24 ways Yahweh is the worst. Yeah. And so Trinitarian Christians preach that Jesus is that guy. So,
he did all those things. So, he's the same person. He's not better. He's not a Reformed Yahwist.
And same with the Muslims. So, the Quran says that Allah is the same God. So, they're all the same
God, really. You can only get them not to be the same God when you go looking at specific
sectarian revisionist versions of history where they invent their own version of these gods.
And then you have a thousand different versions of all of them. So, not really helpful. Line of inquiry.
Thank you so much. Apologies given that Canadian money. For your information, Richard,
is both slagged and praised in Habermas's new resurrection book.
Yeah. So, I check that. I just check to see like what scholars will do.
They'll check to see if their name is mentioned and if anything relevant about their work is
discussed. He never discusses my work. He mentions me a few times, but he hardly at all engages with
my work, even on the resurrection stuff. At least there he engages a little bit with things
that I've actually argued. But in the Historicity chapter, he doesn't engage with it at all.
Like, all he does is summarize Casey and Ehrman and they wrote before my book. So, like,
they can't even be a response to it. So, I was actually astonished by how out of date.
And I looked at a few other examples throughout, not just me, but other scholars in it,
how out of date that book is. It's almost like he wrote it 20 years ago,
and only now, like, some grad student is like proofing it up for publication or something.
It is, it's terrible in the sense that it doesn't even keep track of recent events
in resurrection apologetics. And even in Historicity, he doesn't mention Lataster.
Like, how do you write a book where you have a whole chapter on Historicity and you don't mention
the second peer-reviewed study of the Historicity of Jesus? Like, he doesn't even know that Lataster
existed or his book. And there's a lot of examples in the resurrection sections where he's not even
up on the latest resurrection literature. It's as if it was written 20 years ago. It's really weird.
Interesting. I imagine a lot more coverage will come about his massive book.
Yeah, I mean, I'm not hopeful. If it's so out of date, if it's so out of date and so non-interactive
with latest literature, it's already obsolete. Like, it was obsolete the moment it came off the
presses. There's no reason to engage with it at all, right? Like, it's certainly on the
Historicity question. It's useless. Like, it's entirely useless on the debate for historicity.
In terms of the resurrection, I think it's going to be just as bad. And so,
I don't see the point in even reading it, really. Like, you might as well just read
Lacona or something. Like, it's going to be a better treatment of the subject.
Thank you. Thank you. All right. Next one is Indo. What are other theories to
privation theory of evil, divine command, theistic Platonism? Also, is skeptical
theism respected in academia as a Poe response?
Well, certainly it's respected in academia in the sense that, like, young Earth creationism
isn't. So, like, answers in Genesis and their solution for the problem of evil is not taken
seriously in academia. Skeptical theism is taken seriously, at least, as a view. In fact, it's
skeptical theism is at least attempting to interact with the arguments against their
position, right? So, like, as answers in Genesis is just a propaganda meal.
So, other theories. So, I don't really go into this. I'm not really interested in
Christian. So, I'm just going to put this bluntly. I'm not interested in Christian
bullshit. And so, all of this that you've listed is all bullshit. It doesn't relate to anything
real. Like, there's no empirical way to answer any of these questions. It's all made up shit.
And it's only made up by Christians. It has no purchase with reality. And as a philosopher,
I only deal with reality. So, if you don't have an argument that's based on facts and
reality, I'm not interested. You're just singing mumbo-jumbo. You're putting angels on the head
of a pen. Those kinds of debates amongst Christians I find useless. In terms of, like,
serious attempts to engage with the argument from evil, they have all failed. And so,
there was actually a really good exchange on this recently. So, I did an article. I'll see
if I can find it again. You can put it in there. I know this isn't related to today's topic, but
is Sturba. So, Sturba just came out with a book. Well, maybe the word just is exaggeratedly close.
Interesting. No. Apologies. He's slagged for mythicism, but praised for defending some
notions of Jesus's burial. Yeah. Yeah. No. Right. That's funny. Yeah. Of course,
he appraises the stuff that he likes. Right. Yeah. Because he's interacting with the empty tomb,
which was published in fucking 2005. That's 20 years ago. Anyway. It's an obsolete book,
is totally. No, I just put in the private chat of the link that I'm thinking of. So,
James Sturba came out with a book arguing for... Well, James Sturba poses it as he's arguing for
the logical argument from evil, that he thinks he can prove God logically impossible.
I disagree with him. I think all he's done is produce a really good empirical argument from
evil, like a really, really good one. And so, James and I argue over the semantics of that,
whether it's a logical argument from evil or an evidential one. But it's really good.
And so, that book is like, that's the top of the line. So, if you want to interact,
if you want to see responses to like, respectable attempts to defend God from the argument from
evil, and you want to see our response to it, and therefore references to the good ones,
like the best ones that there are, that's Sturba. So, get Sturba. Now, in addition to that,
Sturba did a whole series with a bunch of scholars crit crit critiquing him, including me and Lataster
and some others, including theists. Right. So, theists who don't like the argument from evil,
but even people who do like the argument from evil are critic critical. That exchange. So,
our arguments in that series and his arguments in that series is all super valuable discussion of
the subject. And it's just recently been published as a book. So, it's at the, I can't remember where
it is. I don't have a link to it, but it was a series of articles in a journal. And I think I
have mine. Let's see. Do I have that? Let's see. No, it's not coming up somewhere. I have that.
I can't find the link. But anyway, the journal has put all those together and is publishing it
separately as a standalone book on James Sturba and the argument from evil. If you google James
Sturba and argument from evil, you'll probably find this journal book that you can buy that is the
whole. So, you basically got Sturba's book and you've got this other book, which is everybody
reacting to Sturba. And then Sturba's replies. Those two volumes are probably the top notch
entryway into the argument from evil and where it is right now in serious academia rather than
bullshit internet stuff. All right. Thank you so much. Oopy doopy. Thank you so much for the
Super Chat. Please do an episode regarding ancient people, how their common sense isn't like ours,
why it's wrong to interpret ancient texts through our modern lens, dismissing the ancient mind like
fundies do. I'll be right back. Well, actually, I'm going to use the restroom here in just a second.
We could probably go deep into that and what you observe in the Greek and Roman world specifically
as well. Yeah, I've been asked this by serious scholars actually who also don't know how to
answer this question. I'm not sure how to answer it either. I feel like there are some respects in
which it's the case, but I always find exceptions. And so it's hard to really nail down what is
actually alien about the ancient mind, apart from merely their lack of knowledge of things that we
now know. So hindsight bias is not what we're asking about. This question is a good question.
It's asking more about like, are there a way of thinking entirely different from ours in certain
respects? Did they just live in a different world than we understand? And that is a good question.
And I have been struggling with exploring this. I don't have a definite answer yet,
but it's something I'm looking at and thinking about.
Thank you so much. Joel Pearson, I'm going to walk away for a second on this one here.
I'd love to hear Dr. Carrier talk about ancient science on stream again. Make it happen. Got any
quick examples? Quick examples. There's your opportunity to hit the restroom.
Yeah, so this is obviously, this is the thing that this is my dissertation, right? My Columbia
University dissertation is on ancient science. I love to talk about it. And yeah, I've done,
I think I've been on this show before talking about it, either science or technology. I can't
remember. Certainly I have talked about it, but I'm always happy to come back on any show to
talk about these subjects because I do love talking about it. Quick examples. And you know,
as you say, there's so many that I love to do. I'm just going to pick one at random, like literally
just popped in my head. So I took, I aced trigonometry in high school, but I could not have
explained to you what it even was. Like I couldn't have to, I knew how to follow the rules, plug in
the equation and get the results, but I didn't understand any of it. Like I didn't know what the
fuck I was doing other than the fact that I could just be a good computer. So I was able, I was able
to master the computations of trigonometry, but I didn't understand trigonometry until I studied
ancient science at Columbia University. And I studied why they invented it. Why did the
ancients invented, invent trigonometry? What was it for? And then not only did I learn that,
but I learned how they came across it. And then like, and it's like, oh my God,
now once I understood trigonometry, I was like, this is fucking genius. Who thought of that? Oh,
right, these guys. And they even came up with spherical trigonometry. So they had more advanced
stuff. Now one of the, I, and I show a slide, I do, when I do this talk about ancient science,
I show the slide where Ptolemy, who's the Roman astronomer, the famous one that everybody makes
fun of for the epicycle theory, although I think it's unfair, unfair criticism. But anyway,
Ptolemy calculated fairly accurately the distance of the moon. And he did it
basically with trigonometry, a stick, a string, and a clock. And that's it. And he nailed the
distance of the moon from the earth. It's roughly 200,000 miles at change. The distance changes,
of course, because the orbit isn't perfect, a perfect distance from the earth at all times.
But he's, he got it in the ballpark. And you think, like, how the hell do you do that? And
then I actually do that, I show the diagram of how the trigonometry works. And it's fucking
genius, right? And what it's basically the basic principle is that every triangle is the same,
right? So like, if a triangle has a certain angles and the lengths, the ratio of the lengths
to the angles is always the same. So if you have like a right triangle, all right triangles are the
same. So you can actually predict if you've got one side and one angle, or two angles, if you've
got any of the two things, sides or angles, you can, you can fill out the rest of the triangle.
You can calculate the lengths of the sides you don't have, you can calculate the angles you don't
have. And, you know, once you understand this, you know, that's fucking brilliant. And you can
use this very cleverly to build up to figuring out the distance of the moon. How do you do that?
And well, first, you have to have the diameter of the earth. They fucking did that with, with
trigonometry, right? So, and so they figured out the diameter of the earth. And doing with sticks,
just with sticks, again, and measuring shadows. And then you can do it, you can actually figure out
the size of the earth. And they nailed it to within 10%. So they're, you know, not precision,
but pretty good. And so they had a decent size of the earth. And if you have the size of the earth,
and you have a stick, and you're actually measuring the moon at the lunar eclipse, because at a lunar
eclipse, you know, the moon is absolutely directly above you, right? Because right in the center of
the lunar eclipse is when the sun is on the other side of the earth, and therefore the moon is on
the opposite. And so you're right literally under the moon. And then you can just count a certain
amount of time, let's say three hours, and then measure the angle to the moon. And then with those
two angles in the side of the earth, you can calculate how far away the moon is. And it sounds
impossible. Like that doesn't make any sense. That should be cockamamie. But no, it works. And
I have a diagram of that. So there's a lot of things like that that they did that are just
freaking amazing. And when you think about it, and that that seems trivial, right? Like just the
set distance of the moon, but that's really hard to do. It's hard to imagine like calculate something
that's 200,000 miles away. How did they even conceive of 200,000 miles at the time? Right.
So anyway, yeah, that's just one example. One could go on and on and all the sciences,
the life sciences and the physical sciences. Thank you so much. Few more here. And then I'll
let you go. No more super chats, please. We are past our time limit here on how much time I have
with Dr. Carrier. For nearly two K years, 2000 years, Judaism was the only non Christian religion
in the West. And they had a bad time. Indian Chinese societies were better in terms of religious
freedom. West West has been better since 20th century. Yeah. So I think the point being made
here is that the idea of not having religious freedom is Jewish. And that's true. There's I
can't think of an example of religious freedom being suppressed by any other culture in history,
that other than a culture that is completely subsumed by a sect of Judaism. So Christianity is
a sect of Judaism. Mormonism is a sect of Christianity. So Mormonism is just a sect of
Judaism. Islam is just a sect of Judaism, possibly originating from the Torah observant
Christian sects of the Syria of the time. So they all go back to the Old Testament and the Jewish
concept of suppressing freedom of speech and religion. And that's fundamentally in the Bible.
So you look at that 24 versus article I sent, it goes into this. So it gives concrete examples of
the absolute violation and suppression of religious freedom is fundamental to their religion.
And they're the only ones that did that. And then that those religions became the imperialist
religions that dominated the world. And you can actually explain that because without religious
freedom, they were able to annihilate competitors. So obviously, you combine those with industrial
imperialist societies, and they're going to dominate the earth, right? Because they're going to kill
everybody else and suppress everything else. Now, this is an argument I've made with more
sophisticated form than I just just uttered it here. In my book, Sense and Goodness Without God,
which is a defensive metaphysical naturalism, which is my philosophy of life, the whole worldview,
whole defense of an ethical humanist naturalist worldview. I have a section in there on this fact,
that sort of memetic virus form of religious oppression as a sort of vehicle for natural
selection, which is not to praise it. It's actually to criticize it, of course.
Wow. Yeah, that's there's a lot there to think about. But yeah, if you go into the more pagan
societies, we'll call them that anything other than the Abrahamic ones. It seemed there were much
more welcoming of other of other deities, other ways and things like that. It would seem I'm sure
they're more so. Yeah, yeah, like you could find incidents of things like there was some suppression
of atheism in pagan Greece, but that didn't last very long. And there's some, you know, there's
suppression of some like certain certain religious practices are deemed evil or threatening might
get suppressed. But but you're not like the idea of like killing everybody who worships a different
God than you like that that's bizarre, like that that's not a normal thing that is extremely weird
in the ethnographic record of human religions. Thank you so much. Exem music. Thank you for
joining us here in the chat. Just saying hi guys. Thank you. David the Goliath, Romans, Greeks,
pre Christian Europeans were also kind of a precursor of the West. So their values became
Christian when Europe switched to Christianity. Yeah. So I actually studied this at Berkeley,
took a course on early Middle Ages. And a lot of that was a discussion of how Christianity was
spread by diplomacy and force. It's all coercion. So even when it was diplomatically spread, it was
it was still coercive. And they would have specific political models for spreading it. So they would
go like to the kings and say, Hey, we're going to come destroy your country unless you ally with us.
But you can't ally with us unless you become a Christian. And then of course, your people will
become the religion that their king advocates. And so that's how this they would even use like
basically intimidation tactics to compel societies to become Christian. And of course,
this top down approach has to be backed up with actual violence and suppression. So we have lots
of evidence of like pagan shrines being burned and pagans themselves being killed. Anybody who's
resisting this gets killed, essentially. But of course, the the arm of the state is fairly weak
in the Middle Ages. So they try this terrorism model, like try to terrify people to be Christian.
And it sort of works in the sense that people will happily pretend to be Christian. But it didn't
really fully purge paganism. And when you hear about the Inquisition and the suppression of witches,
you should understand that witches is code for pagans. It means ordinary, you know, country folk
who are, you know, claiming to be Christian to get the guards and stuff to go away. But then
they're just practicing their regular religion, their religion that's been practicing for thousands
of years. The Christians rebranded that as evil witchcraft, and then went in and killed everybody.
Right. And so they used another system of terrorism to suppress the last remnants of
paganism in these cultures. And so the active violence suppression of paganism in Europe
took thousands of years, but it was very relentless. Thank you.
Lucan, for you. I think that's what your name is. Big fan of Dr. Carrier, even more after he
answered my email about getting his work translated into Polish, Polish. Does he have much interest
outside the Anglo sphere? I'm not sure what the question is. In terms of publishing, in terms of
getting my books into other languages, he already knows the difficulties there, because he and I have
been working together on getting a Polish edition of one of my books produced. It's not easy. I can't
just do it. So basically, if anybody wants a translation in another language, somehow they've
got to get a publisher in that language group. So like you got to get a publisher in Poland,
or a publisher in France, or a publisher in a Latin-speaking country, if you want, Spanish.
You got to get them interested. And then they have to talk to my publisher, and they have to work
out a contract. And I will gladly sign off on anything that those two parties will agree to.
So, but I just, I can't make that happen, because I don't know who publishes books in Mexico, or
even who publishes books in Mexico, who would want to publish a book by myself. So someone else has
to find that, and get the parties talking together. I can help you get them in touch with my publishers,
and I can guarantee that I'll probably sign off, but I can't do the first step of that. And that's
why that my book isn't as widely translated. It's mostly because foreign publishers don't expect to
sell enough units to make it worthwhile translating. And that's the second problem, is getting a
translator who's willing to work for free, because I can't afford to pay for a translator,
neither can the publisher. So those are, you put those two obstacles together, it kind of limits
what we can do. So that's why, that's why there aren't a lot of translations. There are some,
like my Jesus from outer space is in Greek now. And there are various people are trying to get it
in other languages. But, and I can help them to the certain limit, but that's, that's the reason
is those obstacles prevent that. In terms of my personal interest in scholarship in other countries,
I've only found currently mainly German and French scholarship to have anything sophisticated or
interesting enough that covers stuff that I'm interested in to study, occasionally Spanish
and Italian. And that's why I recently published in Italian, my debate with Bermejo Rubio,
and his books in Spanish. And I've also interacted with Pinheiro, who's also published in Spanish.
So I have been interacting somewhat with Spanish and Italian scholarship as well.
And occasionally, very occasionally, I find a fascinating article in Japanese,
because Japan has like one, at least one journal of ancient history that they sometimes come out
with cool stuff in. But yeah, I always look for like, are they publishing in things that I'm
interested in? Are those publications up to snuff? And to give you an example of a negative on that,
I've seen some stuff in Czech, in Czech, I guess, I don't know what the language you call
Czech Czech Slovakia is language, but I know it's not Czech Slovakia anymore. But in the Czech
language that are just plagiarisms of other people's work, and they're not moving the ball
forward, and they're not even worth the bother of reading, same with Russia, I've never seen anything
good come out of Russia that's worth reading. So there are examples of country whole countries
and language groups that aren't producing anything that I want to read. But I do keep my eye on it.
And I do like if people point something out, I'll check it out. But you know, I find what I find
basically. Thank you. Thank you. David the Goliath. Before World War One, west was Christendom, just
like their old Islam idea in Islam, but after atrocities of World War Two became Judeo-Christian
values and attempt to integrate Jews finally after 2000 years. Oh, yeah, there's a lot in there. I
don't know how to respond to that. I what I think they're getting at is this idea of, well, so after
World War Two, I don't know if that really works either. So if you think of the election of John F.
Kennedy, anti-Catholic sentiment was still brutal in America. The idea of there being Judeo-Christianity
as a united thing postates that even, right? So, and yeah, anti-Semitism, just look at anti-Semitism
in the fucking 60s, man. It's so like they had redlining Jews, right, out of neighborhoods and
stuff. So it's still doing that. But so that went away only really, I think in the late 70s and early
80s when sort of the Reagan movement built up this idea that maybe if Catholics and Protestants
who hate each other would work together as a common, like we're Christians, that they could achieve
common political goals like outlawing abortion. And so, and also like getting, you know, the religion
back into control of the state and things like that. And then, yeah, they would fall and then with
Zionism, right? So you have the, you have the apocalyptists, the apocalyptists, you have the
Armageddon lobby, the Christian evangelicals who want to bring about the end of the world actively.
Like they literally want to cause a war in the Middle East and they are like in high halls of
power. Like just Google Armageddon lobby and you'll be astonished. There's some good articles
about it. This is a real thing that's really happening and they have real power. And so they're
like friendly to Israel because they see Israel as part of their component to get Israel to start
the final war that would bring Jesus. So this idea of folding the Jews and you have this whole
Judeo-Christian value system is really a political construct that's fairly recent in history.
These are religions that were completely at each other's throat
fairly recently. And even when Israel was founded, like you go back to the Americans who were
supporting the Christian Americans who were supporting the foundation of Israel and that's
the invasion of Palestine, etc. Like they're still, that's part of the Armageddon lobby.
Like as you go back, it's those Christians. So it's not all Christians were for it. It's just
those Christians who were, and then mostly it was like Jewish money that funded it. But yeah,
there was some of the Christian nationalist money. The early Armageddon lobbyists funded it too.
So it's always been political. It's never really been this sort of like, hey, can't we all get
along? We're happy, happy, happy stuff. No, it's a dark, there's a dark background to the unification
of Judeo-Christianity as a nebulous concept. Thank you. Thank you. Mark Benson in the house.
Thank you so much for the super chat, Mark. I really appreciate it.
Like I mentioned earlier, right? Like they are all the same God and they all acknowledge
they're the same God. But what they say is that they got it wrong, right? Like so when the Christians
say that a lot, like the Muslims are wrong, they're not saying that their God doesn't exist.
They're saying that what they think their God said, their God didn't say, right? So like the
Koran is fake, right? Is their idea is like, that's a human fabrication or maybe it comes from
Satan or something, but it doesn't come from God, right? So it's not a law. It's not really a law.
And then the Muslims will say the same thing about the Christians. You've got something wrong. Like
you're worshiping the right God, but you're listening to the wrong oracle about God. You've
got all the wrong info. And so that that's the actual debate that's going on. Like they all are
talking about the same God, but they're all disagreeing as to who's actually got a phone
line to that God. And that's the reality of what we're dealing with. And I know that for sure
Muslims see Jews who are praying to the one God and stuff as brothers in a way, but then also
definitely not working with them. This is starting with Islam. The people of the book
were afforded a special status above pagans, precisely because they did acknowledge that
these people were people of the correct God. They just had the wrong oracles. They didn't
like if they're not believing the Koran there, they're clearly leaving out information from
their own God. And that was their stubbornness. And that's why they were wrong. But at least
they're like, at least halfway there, like they're worshiping the correct God, they just have the
wrong instructions. And so that's, yeah, the Muslims actually built that into their treatment.
Hence why the people of the book were superior to the pagans.
Thank you, Sid. Read an article says, Do you know how Christian apocalypticism was
preach changed during crisis of third after Constantine? Was Orthodox preaching
in disney during third, I think third century? Oh, no, I don't think so. But this is another
one that I haven't really looked at. I haven't deep dived this one. So I can't answer this one.
Somewhere I have a list of books on this, or at least on the history of apocalypticism.
There's as a book, I think it's called the end of the world. And then there's one,
I think it's called Millennium. But there's scholarly books on studying this, the history
of this question of the end of the world. My interest has always been second century and earlier.
So I've less like, I don't really care about Christian bullshit. So I'm more interested in
the origins of Christianity and its early development. When we get to like the weird,
stupid debates of the third and fourth century, I've lost interest like I don't because they're
not talking about anything that has any contact with reality. So I don't really care anymore.
So I'd study that less. So I don't know the whole range of discussions of the apocalypse
in that period. There's almost nothing from the third century, but that's only because
there's almost nothing from the third century from anybody, like the amount of source material that
survives from the third century is very small in all religions, not just Christianity. And it's
very scattered in what it talks about. And that's not because it didn't exist. It's because very
little of that just survived for us to know about it. There's a huge production of literature in the
fourth century, however. So that would be the place to look. And then maybe the fifth century,
how is apocalypse, apocalypse isn't being dealt with in those periods. And then you get into
the Middle Ages, and that's well outside my field. But yeah, you want to you want to find those books
on the history of the apocalypse, and then maybe contact their authors and see if their authors
know the answer to that specific question, because they might do. Thank you. Thank you,
JC. What does the Vesica Pisces have to do with logos?
I don't know. I don't really care. That's not philosophy. So that's not in the text of the
first and second century. Thank you. Thank you. Blake says, how do you respond to the claim that
ancient Israel had to wipe out their enemies because their enemies were practicing child
sacrifice? That wasn't the reason. That was a reason. The reason the real reason is stated in
their laws. And that's the 24 evil verses that one article I put in that Derek put for me in the
comment. That gives the actual reasons. And they're stated in there. It has very little to do with
child sacrifice. But yeah, you see that as a polemic that comes up later as like an additional
reason. The problem is, is the Jews were doing it too. There's a whole story about Jephthah's daughter.
That's human sacrifice as an example. And on the other side of it, it's almost certainly the polemic
is bullshit as well. So the idea that there was like rampant child sacrifices probably made up.
It's just like the Nazis calling the Jew, like coming up with the protocols of Zion kind of
stuff that they came up with. The Jew bankers control the world and all that bullshit. It's
bullshit. It's not real. And so the idea that the Canaanites are throwing children into the fires
of Moloch on a regular basis is probably bullshit. It's probably more vermin propaganda from a wannabe
master race, essentially. Thank you. Thank you. And Dr. Tabor popped in just to say hi. And yes.
Hey, James. Yeah, I seriously appreciate it. Dr. Carrier, I really appreciate this time that you've
given to us explaining several facets of morality and how there are precursors or examples of it,
full blown, where they're even practicing what you would say is better in the way that they
had a system politically and government set up to handle certain things. But the idea, it's a myth
that, and I mean it as a lie made up that that is not the case for the Christian morality is like,
this is a monopoly and we got it right. We did everything right with it. For those who haven't
seen that, you might want to tune back to the beginning and watch the first hour unfold because
I believe it was about an hour and five minutes that we went into several examples. We could have
gone way further, but I wanted to cover your questions and any final words from you?
I mean, just the usual. Check out my work at RichardCarrier.info. My blog is there. You can
find my Facebook and Twitter feeds. People want to know how to follow me. It depends on what you
want to follow. So I actually have an article on my blog, a guide to my social media. And on my
website, you can also find all my books. There's a lot of them now. And if you want to know what
books to look into, I have an article on guide to my book. So you can check those things out. Just
use the search engine on my website. It's very handy. And you can find all that stuff. I also
teach online courses. So you can find a link at the top of my website page on that. Including one
video course through MythVision so far. And there will be more in the future. Yes. RichardCarrier.info,
you can find all that. And I do discuss ancient history, not just Christian stuff, but like we
did today. We did a lot of pagan stuff. But I also do philosophy, like modern contemporary
atheist philosophy. And other subjects. I'm weirdly published in Hitler studies for a strange
reason. And if you want to know why, it's really fascinating. You can Google Hitler on my blog.
One of the takeaways of my studies in Hitler is that Nazis are liars. They're just all liars. They
lie about everything. And that's fascinating for historical. It's a very fascinating challenge for
a historian to try and get at what really happened. And the people you're reading are just lying about
everything all the time. So anyway, a lot of other subjects I talk about, not just the ones we
have covered today and that I'm usually known for. But so you can find all that stuff again at
RichardCarrier.info. Yeah, all the links are in the description to sources that were mentioned
written by you. Also, Mr. Deity's YouTube video series responding to Tom Holland. We have a course,
of course, on MVP. He has courses also you could sign up. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I recommend them. And
the right side margin of my blog will have other things, including my Patreon link. So this is how
if you want to keep this stuff going, keep my work going, the people who really supporting it and
making it possible free for everyone on the world to read the articles I do and the research I do,
that's my patrons at Patreon. I really respect and value their support. And so always happy for
more to make it easier for me to do this research and build all of this useful stuff and make it
ad free and available to everybody worldwide. I appreciate you playing the videos all night,
seeing the sleep. Fantastic. Sleep better with my voice. I hope that's a good thing. But I appreciate
all the support, everybody. You know, if you appreciate what you hear, the way you can do that
is to, you don't just give them away money for free, you can sign up for effort that's been put
in on our part to help educate more people. And I hope that this has been a helpful episode for
you as much as it has been for me. And have a wonderful day. Appreciate it.
