Welcome back to Mythition Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert, and today I am joined by
the famous, depending on who you ask, infamous, Dr. Bart D. Airman. Welcome back.
Thanks. Thanks for having me again.
Do you like how I painted you, depending on who it is?
Well, it's very much true. I was talking to friends today about the problem of academic
freedom, and I was like, man, if it weren't for academic freedom, I would have been fired 30 years ago.
Bart, I always enjoy our conversations. You have a way about how you express when you teach,
and it's enjoyable. You have a course that you're actually working on now that really
piques my interest. As you know, I'm a weirdo. I like to get down into the weeds. Some of our
conversations in the past show that. What is this one about? Something to do with the corruption,
scribal? Can you tell us about this? This one isn't just for weirdos. This one.
So, you know, the, for a long time, scholars have recognized, and now I think over the last
20 years, laypeople have recognized that we don't have the original writings of the New Testament.
When somebody like, you know, Mark wrote his gospel, he wrote something on probably with,
you know, a pen on papyrus, and we don't have that thing. And we don't have the copy that was
first made of that, or the copy of the copy that the copies we have of Mark are from much,
much later. Our first complete copy is 300 years later. This course, it'll be a four lecture course
that deals with how Mark and the other books of the New Testament were altered by copyists,
as they were copying them, altered in many cases prior to our having any copies. And so the question
is, how do we know what the, what the authors of the New Testament originally wrote? The course
will be called the scribal corruption of scripture. And there's so many questions that come from this.
So I don't want to give away too much of the main course. Maybe we can give people some popcorn,
or a little appetizer here, teasing them as to why this course will be fun and what you'll be
covering. Can you tell us some things that you think this course will hopefully answer for people
and give us a little tease? Yeah. So the, you know, a long time ago in 2005, I published a book
called Miss Quoting Jesus, which is also, you know, the title of the podcast I do. And it was,
is by far the best selling book I've ever done. And it's a book that none of my academic friends
thought anybody would want to buy. Because it was about, you know, scribes copying the New
Testament in Greek. I mean, who wants to read about that? But once people realized how interesting
this is, they said, whoa. And so because, you know, we people, you know, people who are firmly
committed to the Bible assume that when you're reading a verse, you're just reading what the
author wrote. But one, if it's the case, as it is, that there are lots of differences in lots
of our manuscripts. I mean, we're not talking about like a dozen differences here and there
within our surviving manuscripts, there are hundreds of thousands of differences.
And so how do you deal with this? And how do you know what the author originally wrote? And why do
you, how do you know how a scribe changed it? And why would a scribe change it? And you know,
they didn't change the Quran. They didn't change the Torah. Why are they changing the New Testament?
And so these are all questions I dealt with in my book. And so this, this course will be related
to that. It's not going to just be my book. I mean, it's not going to, I'm not just going to repeat
everything that in my book. In fact, I'm going to be talking about all sorts of examples that I've
never talked about before and deal with all sorts of issues, responses to this book by evangelicals.
I had, there were probably four or five books written against that book. And so, so I'll be
talking about, you know, what others have said about it and trying to show why this is a problem
area for, for New Testament scholarship. Now people can understand why I said infamous, famous,
part. You know, the thing is, the things I say are said by biblical scholars everywhere. It's just,
they don't tell anybody except for themselves. And so I'll repeat lines that my, my mentor Bruce
Metzger, who was a very, very famous textual scholars that evangelicals love, I'll repeat
precisely the lines that he said, and they get all over me for it. But he did, they loved it when
he said it. Same thing. It is very interesting. That's a whole another question of what is,
you know, going on there. But I'm, I'm looking forward to, because I imagine that there are
textual variants or scribal changes that sometimes are going to be, and I imagine we'll see this in
the course, extremely impactful doctrinally. I'm not saying that most of them are, you've said in
your book before, maybe you can elaborate on that to tease people, but I imagine some of them are
pretty significant. Yeah. I mean, and, you know, I talk about the hugely significant ones in my book,
because I couldn't very well write a book about the scribes changing the text, not mentioned ones
that are real doozies, but I, but there are a lot that are really important that I don't,
don't mention. But, well, I mean, the, the doctrine of the Trinity is found in only one
verse of the New Testament, the explicit statement that you have the father and the son and the spirit,
and that the three beings are, are divine, but the three are one, that, that doctrine. So not,
not just mentioning that there is a father, there is a spirit, there is a son, but that the three
are one, that's the doctrine of the Trinity. Right. It's found in only one verse, and it's,
and it's in a verse that is found in the King James Bible, but it's not in most modern translations,
except for fundamentalist translations will have it in it. And it's definitely, absolutely,
was not there originally. So, you know, who added it, when did they add it, why did, well, we know
why they added it, they wanted the biblical record to give the doctrine of the Trinity.
And so that, so that makes sense. But so, you know, so you have, you have things like that.
Now, I'm not saying by that that, you know, if that verse were gone, then Christians would no
longer belong, believe in the Trinity, of course they would. Christians are going to believe
whatever they want to believe, and they're not, you know, they're not going to be dependent on a
single verse, but it's the reality. Without that verse, it's not explicitly stated in the New Testament.
This makes me wonder if some of what you're describing here has overlap with what happened
with Martian. And I know there are several people who have different opinions in academia about
the order in which things happen. Did he, did he dumb down and tweak a version of Luke? Or,
you know, you know, the back and forth when it comes to this. But as far as scribal changes,
that would be a major example of like extreme changes to an earlier text. If Martian, let's
say, redacted a version of Luke or something to make his own version. Right. Yeah. So, yeah.
Well, yeah, I mean, it's a complicated issue. It took me about 20 minutes to explain it to
my class today about Martian. And so I'm not going to do that again right now. But, you know,
Martian is the second century church father who had one gospel in his New Testament. And it was a
gospel that was like Luke. And it appears to have been different in many ways, including it didn't,
probably didn't have what is now chapters one and two. And according to the church,
church fathers who opposed him, Tertullian and Epiphanius and others, Martian had taken a copy
of Luke and edited it in such a way as to make it more amenable to his own theology.
And he may well have done that. Other scholars have argued that Martian inherited a form of Luke
that was radically different from our form of Luke. Other scholars like me think that both things
are true. He probably had a form of Luke that was was different in many ways from our Luke,
but he also touched it up a bit or or, you know, took out bits that he didn't appreciate. And so
it's very hard to say because we don't have solid evidence for any of those views. But it's quite
whichever you have, it's quite clear that people were were playing with the text of Luke,
whether it was Martian or somebody else, so that I think we don't have any manuscripts that lack
chapters one and two that those are the chapters that tell the virgin birth story in Luke. We don't
have any copies of Luke without those chapters. But I personally think that the first volume of
Luke didn't have those chapters the first time it was published, that those chapters were added
later. That wouldn't be a textual problem per se, because we don't have any texts without them.
But it's related to a textual problem, because it shows that people are changing these texts.
Now this is in the weeds, but I just want your opinion if you if you have a way of
elaborating this without taking forever. Do you think or do you see anything in our modern version
of Luke or let's just say post Turtolian and all these guys responding to Martian's heresy or
responding to something you think is a Martian like I guess the way I put it is like you know
you said both you're allowing both ideas to be true at the same time. I wonder if the textual
tradition is messy enough that what we've inherited finds little creepings by these
scribes who are reacting to Martian's theology in Luke. So I have a I have the first book I wrote
for like a a broader scholarly audience, not for a general audience, but a scholarly audience was
called the Orthodox Corruption of Scripture. And the entire thesis of the book was that
second and third century Christian scribes copying the New Testament changed it in places
in order to to make the text less usable by heretics and more usable by Orthodox people
opposing heretics. And so as an example Martian did not think that Jesus was fully human. He
thought that Jesus was a divine being and that he couldn't be human because well for a variety of
reasons so we won't go into but so he didn't he didn't think Jesus really had flesh and blood.
And I show in this book the Orthodox Corruption of Scripture what I'll be showing in this course
that there are passages in Luke that that are intentional look like they're intentionally
changed. I think they have to be intentionally changed because there's been there's no way these
things happen by accident. There are places that were changed that do counter that understanding
of Jesus as as divine but not human. There are passages that elevate his humanity in a way to
show that he really is a human being. And so yeah so I mean an example of that is the there's a
famous passage in Luke chapter 22 called the it's the passage about the bloody sweat. This is where
we get the idea that you're sweating blood from. It's where Jesus is in the Garden of Gethsemane
and he's sweating great drops as if of blood because he's in such deep agony. I argue and I
try to show in my book that in fact those those two verses which are missing from many of our
best and oldest manuscripts were not originally there but they were added by scribe to counter
the kinds of views of Christ that people like Marcian had. This guy had a lot of blood in him
that's the point meaning he's very human. Well it's where he's in the deep agony and you know
God's not in any agony so this is it's trying to show the very human side of Jesus. That's so
interesting because Luke also projects Jesus to almost be without like fear at all facing death
that's the point. Luke does that and the scribes wanted to kind of wamp it up a bit. They got a
little humanity here come on and so it takes a while to demonstrate that. In other words you
can't just kind of say it you've got to show what the evidence is what manuscripts have this that
or the other thing why these verses don't fit into the context of Luke why the language in these
verses isn't like Luke's language. I mean scholars have to deal with all of this stuff
but in my course I'll be showing how they go about doing it. How do scholars go about showing
that something is a change rather than the original and so that's going to be one of the
really interesting parts of the course is getting people to see what kind of logic and what kinds
of evidence scholars use. Dr. Ehrman how many lectures will this one be? This will be four
lectures it'll be all on one day it'll be on November 11th it's one day four lectures of
lectures will be about 50 or 60 minutes each and there'll be an extended Q&A afterward
and so it'll be it's going to be good. The thing is you can you can go for a long time on just like
a little bit of this this this lat you know when we did this this this conference recently on
new insights into the New Testament. I gave a 50 minute lecture on a change of one word
in Mark's gospel an entire 50 minutes and there was nothing there was no fat in there at all I
and I couldn't even cover the entire waterfront so you can do a lot but I'm not going to be going
into that kind of detail here but I am going to be talking about a lot of examples that uh that
most people would not have heard before where sometimes even if you just change a single letter
of a word you completely change what a passage means. I hope everybody goes signs up check it out
I love that the world is coming across this education like way faster now we're actually
getting I call the scholars in you know the big universities ivory tower academia and we're finally
coming down to earth where a lot more people are accessing this stuff so you're playing a huge role
in that Dr. Airman and I hope people will sign up now down in the description I'll see you there
any final words from you pertaining to this course. Well it's just what you're saying I mean
this is the kind of knowledge that scholars have had for hundreds of years and it's only recently
that anybody else has recognized it and so getting to know this is kind of material better is
important not just for you know it's not just for skeptics or or you know not just for mythicists
or not just for uh atheists and agnostics it's for Christians too I mean this is important
knowledge and whatever person a person's personal belief uh the bible is really important
and if you think the bible is important you need to know more about it and this is a fundamental
issue uh that that involves the bible so I I hope I hope people of every persuasion comes comes to this
through this course same here thank you Dr. Airman
