Does Yahweh Exist?
This is a question avoided by many scholars of the Bible.
To be precise, this isn't the same thing as asking whether a God exists.
But for some, if Yahweh doesn't exist, then God doesn't exist.
It's rather obvious why that seems a natural conclusion.
There is only one God in many believers' minds.
And if that one God isn't real, then what is true anymore?
This topic quickly enters the philosophical domain.
But what if we can have philosophy and biblical scholarship kiss to help us solve the question
of Yahweh's existence?
Does this pique your interest?
Buckle up folks and welcome to the wild ride where we tackle Yahweh's existence.
We are asking the heavyweight question, does God really exist?
Or is it all just celestial smoke and mirrors?
Before we dive in, let's not get ahead of ourselves.
What in the world do we mean by God?
And hold on, where do we even start with this cosmic conundrum?
Now some folks love to twist this question into a pretzel, making it as complicated as
a cat's cradle.
But we're cutting through the clutter by zeroing in on a specific divine suspect, Yahweh.
Does he have a real estate in reality?
Or is he just a figment of ancient imagination?
We're not just throwing darts in the dark here, we're diving deep into the murky waters
of ontological mysteries and the wild world of religious linguistics in the Old Testament
and Hebrew Bible.
Enter the ring, Professor Yako Gerica, straight from Northwest University, South Africa.
Picture this, a guy who was knee-deep in theology, Semitic languages, and philosophy at the University
of Pretoria, from 1994 to 2004, from a die-hard, reformed Christian, plotting his missionary
path toward ordination, a man who hung his faith hat.
Why?
Because Yako started asking the tough questions, like if we're supposed to just believe, what
on earth are we believing in, especially when the script seems more fiction than fact?
To quote him, quote, for when looking at the biblical texts that were somehow always
in the background, irrespective of whether one was conservative, liberal, or radical
in one's Christian views, there was nothing believable there, end quote.
After ditching his divine duties in 1999, Yako made a comeback in 2001, diving headfirst
into philosophy of religion, with special attention poking holes via contradictions in
the Bible, both Old and New Testaments, with a scholarly stick.
Fast forward through a masters, a doctorate in Semitic languages, and a PhD in Old Testament.
What do you get?
A thesis that dared to ask, does Yahweh exist?
Spoiler, it's not your Sunday school lesson.
The paper is called, Does Yahweh Exist a Philosophical Critical Reconstruction of
the Case Against Realism in Old Testament Theology?
In this monumental paper, he shows how it became impossible to think of depictions of
God in the Bible referring to anything outside of the texts.
Yako didn't just stop there, he evolved, shedding his believer's skin to don the coat
of a biblical scholar, with a twist, he's an atheist with a philosopher's eye.
Being Old Testament Scholarship was the only context completely secular in his location.
He reinvented himself as a biblical scholar.
He wrote several publications which do not involve the exegetical fallacies of the past,
such as the Hebrew Bible and Philosophy of Religion, SBL 2012.
What is a God?
Philosophical Perspectives on Divine Essence in the Hebrew Bible, TNT Clark 2017, and
a Philosophical Theology of the Old Testament, a Historical, Experimental, Comparative and
Analytic Perspective, Rutledge 2020.
Yako has also written a chapter on Israel and the Near East, for the Cambridge Companion
to the History of Atheism, Cambridge 2021.
So what's on the docket for today?
A blast from the past to 2004, when Yako's PhD threw down the gauntlet, challenging the
very existence of Yahweh as anything more than an ancient literary character.
Before we tackle his seven reasons why the big guy upstairs might be more myth than manager,
let's get our brains in gear for a discussion that's anything but heavenly polite.
Strap in, it's going to be a thought-provoking journey through belief, disbelief, and everything
in between.
Welcome to the existential express, where no question is too sacred and no doubt too
daring.
Let's get this philosophical party started and please do pay close attention, because
before we unload seven absolute jugular jabbing and thorough arguments against the existence
of Yahweh that you will want to keep in your pocket, we must first initiate what kind of
arena we are entering.
Old Testament Scholars and the God Debates
The Wild Wild West of academia, theology, where the quest for divine truth is more heated
than a final round in jeopardy.
And the relevance of studying the heavens is questioned more than your uncle's conspiracy
theories at Thanksgiving dinner.
It's a place where the very subject that's supposed to be all about higher callings often
gets the side-eye like it's trying to sell you a slightly used car.
Now despite the eye rolls and the thanks but no thanks from both the church pew and the
science lab, the debates around those holy texts are hotter than a summer's blockbuster.
Yup, even the folks who swear the Bible is better used as a coaster are still sneakily
thumbing through its pages to win an argument on Twitter.
And the believers, they're in there too, winging their holy swords in the comment sections.
But here's the kicker, while God talk is everywhere from TikTok debates to presidential
speeches, the rock stars of biblical scholarship are backstage, unknown.
Your average Joe is more likely to quote Albert Einstein, Carl Sagan, Stephen Hawking, Neil
deGrasse Tyson, Richard Dawkins, Sam Harris, Jordan Peterson, Joe Rogan on Matters of the
Divine than someone who actually spent their life deciphering ancient Hebrew.
The face of the Old Testament in the public eye is less scholarly sage and more celebrity
tweet.
On the Christian side, it is often philosophers of religion, apologist, and church pastors
whose views are taking as representative of the public face of Yahweh.
However, don't lose faith just yet, there's a change in the wind.
Biblical scholars are finally getting their 15 minutes of fame, popping up on podcast
and YouTube, spicing up the conversation with some long overdue expertise.
Scholars like Dan McClellan, Joshua Bowen, Kip Davis, Kenneth Amos, Robin Faith Walsh,
James Tabor, Richard Carrier, Richard C. Miller, Bart D. Airman, M. David Litwa, Dennis McDonald,
the endless academics brought to the public view by channels like MythVision and History
Valley and many more.
Let's face it, the philosophical deep dives and scholarly debates are still flying over
most heads like a dense academic drone.
For the most part, the public doesn't seem aware of the philosophical implications of
biblical scholarship which we will unravel.
Old Testament scholars themselves, it seems, debate the existence of almost everything
mentioned in the text, except whether or not Yahweh actually exists.
Like New Testament scholars, whether something about the character Jesus in the text is historical
or not, asking similar questions about the character Yahweh, who is also differently
named, as opposed to stories, events, or artifacts seems a bit odd.
One reason pertains to interdisciplinary divisions of labor, worrying about arguments
for or against the existence of a deity is something for philosophy of religion.
Old Testament scholars are by profession more interested in linguistic, historical,
literary, and sociological issues appearing to arise from within the discourses represented
by the Old Testament texts.
The relationship between philosophical concepts, concerns, and categories and biblical scholarship
is more complex and nuanced in practice, so bear with me for a moment.
On the one hand, all perspectives on the text involve philosophical presuppositions, problems,
and perspective as their conditions of possibility.
On the other hand, historical consciousness requires that scholarly discussions of Yahweh
aim to avoid imposing anachronistic philosophical presuppositions, problems, and perspectives
on to the biblical depictions of deities.
Even so, biblical scholars do not simply read the text to illustrate this.
It might be helpful to distinguish between so-called first and second order religious
languages and biblical scholarship.
First order language refers to the direct original language of the Old Testament, such
as the Hebrew and Aramaic names and descriptions of deities.
These are the actual words found in the scripture.
The second order religious language, on the other hand, includes the English terms used
to analyze, interpret, translate, clarify, and critique the biblical texts.
Words like reality, exist, language, history, and texts are examples of second order language.
These terms come from various scholarly disciplines, such as linguistics, literary criticism, historical
analysis, sociology, anthropology, and theology.
Scholars use these terms to bring perspectives from their fields to help understand the Bible,
but they are not part of the original biblical language.
When biblical scholars discuss Yahweh using second order language, they have to choose
specific terms and concepts from these disciplines.
This selection process inevitably simplifies the complex nature of the deity as described
in the Old Testament, because it imposes a modern framework onto an ancient text.
Therefore, any scholarly discussion about Yahweh or any other biblical subject can be
reductive.
This means it tends to simplify the subject by looking at it from one angle, using the
specific language and concepts of that viewpoint.
This is a common challenge in biblical scholarship, as it is often difficult to fully capture
the multifaceted nature of the biblical text with contemporary terminology and perspectives.
Historical Perspective
Yahweh is viewed through the lens of historical evolution, with a focus on the deity's origins
and development in the ancient religions of Israel and Judah, which is distinct from how
Yahweh is represented in texts.
Literary Perspective
Yahweh becomes a character within the narrative framework of the biblical stories, analyzed
as a literary element rather than a religious or historical figure.
Sociological Perspective
Yahweh is seen as a social symbol, holding varying significances across different communities
and social structures, such as clans, villages, or states.
Psychological Perspective
Yahweh is interpreted as a mental construct, a concept formed in human cognition in relation
to other mental constructs within the same theoretical framework.
Theological Perspective
Yahweh is understood in the context of theological traditions, characterized by divine nature
and attributes as seen in later Jewish and Christian traditions.
Each of these perspectives, while providing valuable insights, can be seen as reductive,
meaning they simplify the complex nature of Yahweh by viewing the deity through a specific
academic or disciplinary lens.
This reflects a broader understanding that when we discuss Yahweh's existence or any
aspect of the deity, we are influenced by the specific academic framework we are using,
whether that is history, literature, sociology, psychology, or theology.
The final point is that in biblical scholarship, there is no such thing as an entirely neutral,
unbiased approach.
Every single reading of a biblical text is colored by the particular academic discipline
that the reader brings to it.
This is true for scholars and laypersons alike.
This means that discussions about biblical figures always carry with them the assumptions
and focus of the disciplinary lens through which they are being viewed.
The Existence of God as a Topic in Old Testament Scholarship
Philosophy as an auxiliary discipline has been gradually reintegrating into biblical
scholarship.
However, the integration is selective.
For instance, while applied ethics, hermeneutics, and social philosophy have become integral
to biblical studies and don't face much contention, the philosophy of religion is often kept at
arm's length.
This is due in part to the sensitive nature of discussions around the existence of deities
which are central to the philosophy of religion, but less so to other philosophical areas that
have been more readily adopted into biblical scholarship.
Old Testament scholars regularly engage with issues of biblical morality and the conceptualization
of divinity, but they typically steer clear of directly tackling the philosophical arguments
or against the existence of Yahweh.
When philosophy of religion does appear in biblical scholarship, it's often in brief
references to continental philosophy or indirectly to disciplines like cognitive linguistics
in discussions about metaphorical language, for example, or through theology.
Within biblical scholarship, statements about the existence of Yahweh are often limited
to.
They reiterate what the Old Testament claims about God or Yahweh as some sort of reality.
They clarify the meaning of what this does and doesn't mean in light of later philosophical
ideas about divine existence.
They discuss the apparent absence of atheism as we understand it today.
In ancient texts which seem to deny the existence of God, they categorize extreme disbelief
as practical atheism regarding Yahweh.
They analyze polemics against other gods, especially in the context of idolatry critiques.
Regarding the ontological status of Yahweh or what it means to affirm Yahweh's existence,
doctors maintain a range of views often aligned with realists or non-realist interpretations
such as naïve realism.
This approach treats the text as transparent, suggesting that Yahweh, as described in the
Old Testament, is a direct depiction of God.
The text is considered synonymous with divine communication.
There's critical realism.
Here the representation of Yahweh in the text is seen as a flawed reflection of some
reality.
The text is an imperfect expression more akin to a painting than a window of the divine.
It's a blend of divine revelation and human articulation.
Then there's non-realism.
From this perspective, the descriptions of Yahweh in the text are seen as purely human
constructs with no reference to an external deity.
The text is a mirror reflecting human experiences and expressions rather than divine realities.
It's essential to note that a scholar stance on the depiction of Yahweh within the text
doesn't necessarily reveal their personal beliefs about God's existence outside the
text.
A scholar may, for instance, approach biblical narratives about Yahweh as non-literal, non-realist
while still maintaining a belief in God, critical, realist.
While there might be a tendency to associate naive realism with fundamentalist views, reality
is indeed more nuanced.
Scholarly positions are varied and often require careful unpacking to understand the
implications for both the study and belief in the biblical depiction of the divine as
we will see later on.
On Philosophical Fallacies in Exegesis
Despite the Old Testament's implicit assumption of Yahweh's existence without explicit argumentation,
it would be incorrect to conclude that scholars of the Old Testament should refrain from engaging
with this line of inquiry.
The Old Testament, whether presenting the deity in human-like terms or personifying Israel
in its narratives, does not explicitly address the existence of other beings or entities
within its text.
This however has not deterred scholars from investigating the historical existence of
figures such as Adam or Moses or Abraham.
When it comes to philosophical questions, it's important to acknowledge that many of our
contemporary concerns might not align directly with the text's original context, leading
to potential anachronisms.
Yet this mismatch does not inherently distort our understanding, rather it highlights the
importance of approaching these texts with historical awareness.
For instance, the Old Testament does not delve into discussions about Hebrew grammar, narrative
structure, poetic devices, the development of Israelite religion, societal organization,
or explicit theological discourse.
Despite the anachronistic nature of these subjects, meaning they apply our contemporary
understanding retrospectively, they do not necessarily lead to a misunderstanding of
the text.
The absence of explicit discussion on these topics by the text's authors invites modern
scholars to explore these areas, aiming to avoid projecting modern interpretations and
biases onto ancient writings.
Arguing that discussions around the existence of Yahweh or any other biblical figure are
more problematic than exploring other textual references overlooks the broad scope of biblical
scholarship.
Such a stance also imposes unnecessary limitations on scholarly inquiry, not justified by the
practices of biblical authors themselves who did not engage with the text in a way modern
readers do.
Furthermore, suggesting that Old Testament scholars should exclude philosophical or religious
inquiries represents a double standard when compared to other academic disciplines.
The relationship between biblical interpretation and philosophy, particularly in the turbulent
20th century, has significantly shaped our current understanding of these texts.
Just as Old Testament scholars routinely incorporate historical, sociological, and literary analysis
into their work, there is no compelling reason to exclude philosophical reflections from
their scope of study.
Engaging with these texts through a philosophical lens is not only permissible, but necessary
for a comprehensive understanding of their meaning and relevance.
The Existence of Yahweh vs. The Existence of God
Philosophers of religion who debate the existence of God typically do not limit their discussions
to the portrayal of Yahweh in the Old Testament.
Their interest often extends beyond the ancient religious context of Israel and Judah, focusing
more on the theological developments within post-biblical Judaism and Christianity.
Thus when these scholars construct arguments about the existence of God, relying solely
on the Old Testament could be seen as a misstep.
The concerns of biblical scholars regarding the depiction of Yahweh are distinct from
the broader philosophical debates about God's existence.
In essence, the biblical scholar has the unique privilege, if they choose, to delve into the
nuances of how Yahweh is depicted in the Old Testament without necessarily engaging
with later theological arguments.
Researchers arguing against the existence of Yahweh based on the biblical texts must
navigate the complexities of biblical scholarship rather than applying atheist critiques developed
in the context of Christian philosophy.
Such arguments may lack relevance or validity when applied to the ancient religious framework
of Old Testament Yahwism.
For instance, arguing against Yahweh's existence without addressing the differences between
ancient and contemporary conceptions of deity could undermine the argument.
Popular atheistic objections, including the problem of evil, may not effectively challenge
Yahweh's existence as depicted in the Old Testament, especially if Yahweh is portrayed
as having the power to do both good and evil.
In this context, the deity's actions, even those considered evil, might be seen as demonstrations
of divine power rather than as reasons to doubt its existence.
The modern expectation that a deity must be wholly good or not worthy of belief or that
belief in a God's existence is the primary religious concern does not align with the
Old Testament's portrayal of Yahweh.
The Old Testament does not mandate a belief in Yahweh's existence as a core religious
obligation.
Therefore, critics must engage with the text as it is.
Acknowledging the depiction of a deity that is not exclusively benevolent and exploring
why such depictions might be challenging for contemporary understandings.
In some, when biblical scholars or critics address the portrayal of Yahweh in the Old
Testament, they confront a task distinct from the general philosophical debate about God's
existence.
Their challenge is to explore the implications of these ancient texts for modern readers,
recognizing that the issues they uncover may reflect contemporary concerns rather than
those of the original authors or audiences.
Arguments Against the Existence of Yahweh
This discussion doesn't suggest ignoring modern interpretations of God or the philosophical
debates that come with them when examining the Old Testament.
Instead, it proposes that these contemporary concepts and concerns can be cleverly applied
and reshaped to challenge the literal interpretation of Yahweh's existence as presented in these
ancient texts.
The idea is to critically engage with the Old Testament's portrayal of Yahweh and argue
that this depiction does not necessarily refer to a real entity beyond the text itself.
The connection between this analysis and broader notions of God is complex and intricate.
To navigate this complexity, I introduced seven carefully crafted arguments designed
to address the inherent ontological, which means concerning the nature of being, issues
found in various scholarly interpretations of Old Testament narratives.
The arguments will be listed as such.
1. The argument from theological pluralism
2. The argument from unorthodox theology
3. The argument from polymorphic projection
4. The argument from mythology and syncretism
5. The argument from fictitious cosmography
6. The argument from fictitious history
7. The argument from metatextual history
By these arguments, the following may briefly be said as part of the introduction to the
case proper, the argument from intratextual theological pluralism, critically examines
the diverse and sometimes conflicting portrayals of Yahweh within the Old Testament.
This argument is grounded in the observation that the text presents various, often contradictory
descriptions of Yahweh's nature, actions, and moral expectations.
These inconsistencies challenge the notion of a single, unified conception of Yahweh,
suggesting instead a complex collage of competing views and ideologies.
Firstly, the argument highlights direct contradictions in the depiction of Yahweh's characteristics
and deeds.
For instance, Yahweh is portrayed in some texts as merciful and forgiving, while in
others as wrathful and punishing.
Similarly, the moral standards Yahweh upholds vary significantly across different books
and stories, with some narratives emphasizing strict justice and others championing mercy
and compassion.
Secondly, the argument draws upon diachronic studies, including tradition and source criticism,
to further complicate the picture.
These scholarly approaches reveal that the Old Testament is the product of numerous authors,
communities, and historical periods, each contributing their own perspectives and theological
emphases.
This diachronic complexity leads to serious ontological questions about the reality of
Yahweh as depicted in these texts.
If Yahweh were to exist outside the text, the diverse and contradictory representations
within the Old Testament suggest that not all of these portrayals could accurately reflect
this external reality.
The presence of such mutually exclusive depictions within the Old Testament leads to the conclusion
that a realistic interpretation based on any singular Old Testament view of Yahweh is not
tenable.
Instead of one coherent picture, what emerges is a collection of disparate ideologies, each
presenting its own understanding of Yahweh's nature and actions.
This plurality indicates that while the Old Testament offers a rich source of theological
and moral reflection, it does not provide a consistent or unified portrayal of Yahweh
that could serve as the basis for a realistic ontology.
The argument from unorthodox theology is presented.
Here the focus will be on how realism in the Old Testament's depictions of Yahweh
apparently collapses by orthodox Christian philosophical theology.
The argument is that if there is only one God and this God conforms to the profile constructed
by stereotypical Christian philosophical theology, Yahweh as depicted in the text must be a character
of fiction.
As long as the real God is conceived as being eternal, single, omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent
and omnibenevolent, the deity Yahweh who is often depicted as not exhibiting any of these
attributes obviously has no extra textual counterpart.
The bottom line is that if God exists, Yahweh doesn't.
The argument from polymorphic projection explores a significant challenge within Old
Testament theology, the portrayal of Yahweh using human-like characteristics, behaviors
and emotions, a concept known as anthropomorphism.
Additionally, it addresses sociomorphism where divine actions and societal structures are
mirrored after human societies and psychomorphism, attributing human psychology or thought processes
to the deity.
These representations are not just minor issues, they raise profound questions about the authenticity
of divine depiction in the scriptures.
The core issue, as this argument presents, is not merely about the ancient Israelites'
limited understanding of the world, history and morality.
The real challenge to the realism of biblical theism lies in the portrayal of Yahweh himself.
The depiction suggests that Yahweh's views and actions do not surpass the cultural and
historical biases of the people who wrote the texts.
Instead of portraying a deity that transcends human limitations, the scriptures often present
Yahweh in ways that reflect the all-to-human perspectives of his narrators.
By showing that Yahweh's interactions with the world and his moral judgments are closely
aligned with the beliefs and superstitions of the time, this argument points to the
possibility that the character of Yahweh is more a construct of human imagination than
a depiction of a real transcendent being.
This perspective challenges the traditional view of Yahweh as the creator, and instead
suggests the deity may be a creation of human cultural and historical context.
The argument from mythology and syncretism
Hear the ontological implications of embarrassing elements in the Old Testament text, such as
parallels with other ancient mythologies, ample evidence of syncretism, the belief in
magic and traces of superstition will be spelled out.
It will be argued that the presence of these elements in Old Testament god talk makes realism
in Old Testament theology problematic as it suggests that the ontological status of
the deity is demonstrably not much different from any other god featured in ancient Near
Eastern mythology.
The argument from fictitious cosmography deals with the ontological implications of the fictitious
elements in Old Testament cosmology.
It will be demonstrated there are numerous locations in the world in the text with no
counterparts in extra textual reality.
The problem, once again, concerns not merely the fact of Israel's primitive conceptions
of the world, but the embarrassing truth that the god Yahweh himself shared its erroneous
beliefs and that his alleged revelation and acts even presuppose the empirical veracity
of such conceptions.
The main concern of this topic deals with the question of Yahweh's supposed whereabouts
in actual reality as Yahweh is often depicted as literally dwelling up there in the skies
and this is demonstrably not the case in the world outside the text.
Realism regarding the ontological status of the deity can actually be falsified by empirical
means.
The argument from fictitious history.
This argument against the existence of Yahweh can be seen as consisting on the one hand of
various subarguments demonstrating why it has become problematic to believe that the scenarios
featuring Yahweh as depicted in the biblical texts actually happened as depicted.
On the other hand, an attempt is made to explain why the presence of fiction in the text depicting
the acts of Yahweh leads to the radical, albeit often repressed, conclusion that Yahweh
as depicted in the text is himself a character of fiction with no extra textual counterpart.
Since the nature of the text allows one to demonstrate that the god Yahweh never really
appeared, spoke, and acted in the ways depicted, it follows that no sufficient grounds remain
to justify realism regarding the ontological status of the deity.
In other words, if Yahweh plays a significant role in the fictional historical account and
that account never happened in the real world, then Yahweh cannot be said to have done the
things described in that account in the real world, making Yahweh a fictional character
in that story.
The argument from metatextual history will be concerned with the philosophical dilemmas
for realism as these are implicit in the critical reconstructions of the origin, nature, and
developments of both Yahwistic religion and the text that later became the Old Testament.
It will be argued that rather than Yahwism being the true religion and the Old Testament
being the inerrant, infallible, and inspired Word of God, a combined historical and philosophical
approach to the origin and development of both Yahwism and the Old Testament implies otherwise.
The history of Old Testament interpretations may even be construed as a history of repressed
anti-realism.
Finally, one can go so far as to suggest that both contemporary conservative and critical
attempts to salvage realism are half-baked and hypocritical.
All the anticipated possible objections to the case against realism are demonstrably
riddled with informal fallacies.
Simplifying the debate around the use of Yahweh and the Old Testament, it's clear that
just sticking to these terms misses the broader complexities and nuances of biblical text.
Readers might find some arguments too strong or not fully considering other scholarly ideas
and developments in theology or philosophy.
Despite this, questioning the literal existence of Yahweh doesn't hinge on every point being
perfect.
The discussion pulls from a wide range of biblical scholarship, aiming to encourage thought rather
than claiming to have all the answers.
It suggests moving away from a strictly literal interpretation of Yahweh without expecting
unanimous agreement.
This dialogue is part of a larger debate on whether the biblical depiction of Yahweh can
represent a real entity.
It's understood that proving such a stance is challenging, given the non-literal nature
of many biblical texts and the vast interpretations available.
Yet the discussion invites a reconsideration of how we interpret these ancient texts and
the divine figures within them, acknowledging that our understanding is always evolving.
Furthermore, the conversation acknowledges the diversity of divine names and the layered
meanings of terms like God and Old Testament.
Each with its own set of complexities and historical baggage, it recognizes the ongoing debate
and evolution in biblical scholarship without dismissing new insights that have emerged
since the early 2000s.
In essence, this is an open invitation to explore and question the text more deeply,
even if definitive conclusions remain elusive, highlighting the ongoing journey of biblical
interpretation and understanding.
The argument from theological pluralism
When considering the existence of Yahweh as depicted in the Old Testament, it's essential
to start by defining the attributes of this deity.
One cannot simply affirm or deny a God's existence without clarity on what characterizes the
God in question.
Every argument, for or against the existence of Yahweh, hinges on a precise understanding
of the divine nature being discussed.
However, the task of defining Yahweh's nature is fraught with challenges.
The Old Testament presents a range of portrayals that often seem contradictory, which poses
a significant obstacle for those arguing from a realistic standpoint that the depiction
of Yahweh in these texts matches an actual being in reality.
These varied depictions lead to theological pluralism, not in a harmonious sense, but
in a way that introduces connection between the two.
Not in a harmonious sense, but in a way that introduces conflicting attributes for the
deity.
So if one were to attempt to prove Yahweh's existence based on scriptural depictions,
or descriptions, they would face a critical question from skeptics.
Which depiction of Yahweh are we considering?
Since not all contradictory versions can reflect a singular existing reality, excluding unorthodox
experiences of conflicting realities.
Establishing Yahweh's existence becomes even more complex.
If one portrayal is true, others in direct contradiction must be false.
This dilemma underscores the difficulty of arguing for the real existence of a deity
like Yahweh, who is represented with such variety and inconsistency in the Old Testament.
What kind of being is God?
What are God's main qualities according to sacred texts?
To understand this, we can look at the different ways God has described in the Old Testament's
various books.
When we compare these descriptions, we find that they don't always match up.
There are many instances where the descriptions of God's nature and characteristics seem
to contradict each other.
A Yahweh who is the only God A Yahweh who is not the only God
A Yahweh who is practically omniscient A Yahweh who is not omniscient
A Yahweh who knows the future A Yahweh who does not know the future
A Yahweh who changes his mind and repents A Yahweh who does not change his mind and
repent A Yahweh who is responsible for all evil
A Yahweh who is not responsible for all evil A Yahweh who frequently appears to people
A Yahweh who seldom or never appears to people A Yahweh who has human form
A Yahweh who is nothing like humans A Yahweh who needs to sleep or rest
A Yahweh who never sleeps or rests A Yahweh who is merely a national deity
A Yahweh who is a universal deity A Yahweh who is not omnipresent
A Yahweh who is omnipresent A Yahweh who is sovereign, incontrol and fearless
A Yahweh who is unsure of himself and afraid That these texts can and have been interpreted
In ways that would mean there is no contradiction can be granted as long as it is acknowledged
that they are usually understood by critical scholars as incommensurable at some level
Moreover, the reality of such basic contradictions regarding Yahweh's nature inevitably leads
the consistent philosophical-critical interpreter to one of either three possible conclusions
One, Yahweh who is X exists and the Yahweh who is not X does not
Two, Yahweh who is not X exists while the Yahweh who is X does not
Three, no Yahweh exists at all Whichever of the alternatives one opts for,
realism with regard at least some of the depictions of Yahweh in the text collapses
Examples of theological contradictions pertaining to Yahweh's actions
The problem of contradictory depictions of Yahweh can also be seen when one attempts to
reconstruct a record of the deity's alleged actions in the world. The following are examples
of mutually exclusive views pertaining to exactly what it is that Yahweh had done in the past
Contradictory creation accounts Contradictory accounts of the first revelation
of the divine name Contradictory claims regarding the deity's causal relation
and exact actions in certain scenarios Contradictory claims regarding the ways in which
Yahweh relate to and intervene in the human world Contradictory views of Yahweh regarding
the establishment of the cult during the desert wanderings Contradictory relations between Yahweh
and the forces of chaos Contradictory absissima verba which is Latin for
very words of the dialogues that Yahweh allegedly engaged in meaning the very words of Yahweh
contradict Contradictory envisioned future actions of Yahweh
Contradictory relations between Yahweh and the dead
These are but a few examples of the discrepant views and the text pertaining to the supposed
actions of Yahweh in the world and the lives of people the problem here is not whether the texts
are historical or not neither is there the presumption of a coherent plot we are merely
pointing to the fact that the juxtaposed references if Contradictory cannot refer to the same entity
outside the text though some might think such an emphasis on technicalities is pedantic the law of
non-contradiction applies here too if the Old Testament deity does have an extra textual counterpart
then either the Yahweh who did X exists and the version of Yahweh who did not do X does not
or vice versa alternatively Yahweh does not exist at all whichever of the depictions one opts for
it spells the end of realism concerning all the other depictions that stand in a mutually
exclusive relation to the preferred version of the deity's acts examples of theological contradictions
pertaining to Yahweh's will another variety of theological contradictions pertains to the
ethical dimension of the Old Testament's depictions of the deity whose existence it takes for granted
but what exactly is the will of Yahweh what does he consider to be right and wrong in an attempt
to supply an answer to these questions the astute reader not blinded by dogma will encounter a host
of contradict reviews that defy harmonization the following examples of some of the many ethical
contradictions should suffice to prove the point Yahweh considers it right that children should
be punished for the sins of parents Yahweh considers it wrong that children should be
punished for the sins of parents Yahweh demands that worship be centralized and limited
to one particular place Yahweh does not demand centralized worship confined to one particular
place Yahweh will never allow Moabites into his congregation Yahweh will allow Moabites into the
congregation Yahweh approves of Jehu's killings Yahweh denounces Jehu's killings Yahweh commanded
the burning of children Yahweh did not command the burning of children Yahweh wanted the people to
have a king Yahweh did not want the people to have a king Yahweh does not want the king of his people
to be rich Yahweh wants his chosen king to be rich Yahweh forbids eunuchs to ever enter into his
congregation Yahweh does not forbid eunuchs to ever enter into his congregation it is forbidden
to marry a sister or brother who had a different mother it is not forbidden to marry a sister or
brother who had a different mother Yahweh specifically tells Moses he wants a bullock
to be offered for the sins of the congregation Yahweh specifically tells Moses it is a he goat
that must be offered for the sins of congregation Yahweh specifies that Levites can begin to serve
in the temple at age 25 Yahweh specifies that Levites can begin to serve in the temple
at age 30 Yahweh is extremely concerned with moral virtue and piety Yahweh is not extremely
concerned with moral virtue and piety given the reality of these discrepancies one may consider
realism in Old Testament ethics to be unjustified and its ontological perspective collapses
either Yahweh who is for X is real or Yahweh who is against X is real both cannot be true
but both can be false if Yahweh himself does not exist for the present however if one does not wish
to accept the latter conclusion then the only option is to pick and choose between the mutually
exclusive views whichever of these depictions of Yahweh one opts for if consistency means anything
one must conclude that the opposing depiction is not true and therefore Yahweh as depicted
therein is not true now I know from my own experience Derek Lambert and I'm sure Yako has
experienced this as well that gymnastics will take place on every pericopee every example
typically by Christians fundamentalist online to rectify to try and reinterpret to try and
find ways to get around every single one of these examples but by the end of this documentary
there are so many and so much overwhelming evidence and scholarship that backs what Yako's
saying in this documentary that nothing but special pleading seems to be the kind of
identification I would give to someone who is doing these kind of behaviors with these texts
an honest real student who's researching and looking into these will have to wrestle with this
reality on Yahweh the ontological implications of tradition criticism
another way to provide a perspective on the collapse of realism via theological contradictions
involves something other than synchronically pitting selected texts against each other
in other words in order to criticize realism one may also approach the issue
diachronically and consider the ontological implications of the way the traditions about
the nature acts and will of the deity Yahweh developed in the history of what is often called
Israelite religions among others in other words one may be able to demonstrate that realism
regarding the ontological status of Yahweh is problematic by spelling out the ontological
implications of what the interpretive approach known as tradition criticism has discovered
concerning the development of Old Testament traditions though the approach is nowadays
less popular and some theoretical aspects thereof dated the problems in relation to which the ideas
developed remain in the text regardless of whether one speaks of traditions or use newer
interpretive frames of reference for example composition redaction editing cultural memory
scribal ideology rewriting interbiblical interpretation or dialogue intertextuality etc
many of the stories constituting the tradition were at first or later on transmitted orally
and during other stages scripturally the process of transmission did not simply involve a mindless
copying and reproduction of what was perceived to be unalterable details of inerrant discourse
concerning Yahweh to be sure the traditions were handed down in dynamic fashion marked by
interactive and creative reinterpretation recontextualization recasting and reconstructing
which means they were changing this and the tradition of Yahweh over time nothing
was ever set in stone the depiction of the deity Yahweh appears to have been continually
reshaped and reinterpreted to meet contemporary theological and psychological needs and to bring
it into conformity with present social and political matrices whether one is thinking
of the stories about creation the patriarchs the exodus the wanderings in the wilderness
the conquest of Canaan the period of the monarchy the exile or the post-exilic period etc matters
little tradition criticism has demonstrated that what we have in the Old Testament are not the
unmodified and original versions of these stories in other words old scenarios featuring Yahweh
were often reinterpreted and reconstructed the outcome of which has Yahweh being a different
sort of deity saying different things and doing different deeds consequently when a depiction
of Yahweh in any of the traditions is compared with earlier or later versions of itself the result
is not a coherent and harmonizable account of the nature words and acts of the deity
the end result of this transmission process was therefore not one static and monolithic tradition
but a plethora of often mutually exclusive traditions resulting from different adaptations
and alterations within the different religious communities whatever the earliest traditions
relation to reality the amount of adaptation these underwent implies that whatever the truth
of the discourse the scenarios featuring Yahweh never actually happened according to the details
to be found in the final forms of contemporary canonical Old Testament texts for those who
failed to appreciate the ontological ramifications of these discoveries I would like to spell out
what it appears to translate to in layman's terms when the text depicts Yahweh as speaking to
and interacting with people like Noah, Abraham, Jacob, Moses, Solomon, David, Jeremiah, Ezekiel,
and others it is not providing us with a factual report of actual events what we encounter in the
Old Testament concerning the details of the speeches and acts of Yahweh are technically speaking
no more than fictitious literary constructs as such it represents the ideology of particular
religious traditions at a particular point in time the biblical discourse therefore
do not feature what was known to be true but rather what some people considered to be true
and what they would like others to believe to be true now if one were then to insist that Yahweh
as depicted in the text actually does exist the philosophically minded tradition critic
might once again respond with the question which version again even should one make the choice
for only a single depiction of Yahweh in the text and ignore all others that contradict it the problems
with realism do not go away because the depictions of Yahweh currently featured in the texts are
often at odds with themselves as they were articulated during an earlier phase of the
transmission process realism remains problematic when the history of religion is no longer bracketed
by the philosophy of religion anti-realism seems to be the inevitable result ontological implications
of source criticism a second means of criticizing realism from a diachronic point
over time a view involves spelling out the ontological implications of a source critical
explanation for the theological pluralism in the Old Testament in fact source critical analyses
has not only uncovered a plethora of sources in the text but has also demonstrated
that the various sources often contain conflicting if not contradictory views about Yahweh source
critical hypotheses have been modified and in some cases abandoned in recent times however the
religious language associated with the hypothetical sources and the contradictions within them remain
even if one rejects source criticism altogether for this reason what follows though dependent on
the stereotyped version familiar to most to the extent that people are familiar there with
has implications which are not dependent on whether one agrees with the source identification
name dating or division even if they are identified with a line of multiple anonymous
scribal redactors over time there may be other reasons for the differences involved but the
problem remains hence the references to J Yahweh's E Eloist D Deuteronomist P Priestly which is neither
the earliest nor the latest mainstream format still serve to highlight incongruent conceptual
complexes even if no longer a source as such one could in theory believe in mosaic David or other
forms of authorship and it would still not make the discrepancies and problems go away in virtue
thereof just as discovering certain theories and astronomy were incorrect does not warrant a return
to astrology so even if source criticism becomes totally dated reverting to reading without reference
to sources does not salvage realism and still fails to take the text seriously because it
takes the dogma about the text very seriously the justification for such an anti-realist perspective
on the ontological status of Yahweh as depicted in the source materials can be found by comparing
the theologies of J and E as freedman 1987 observed when the deities of J and E are compared
the god of J and the god of E believed different things regarding what happened in the past
J's Yahweh has a different biography than Yahweh in E although Yahweh is usually associated with
the name Elohim in this now least popular of sources in scholarship moreover the god of J
relates differently to the world and people than the god of E there are also serious and substantial
discrepancies between the nature of the two deities they even have different ideas regarding what
constitutes normative morality and cultic laws logically then the deity depicted in J cannot
have the same supposed extra text will counterpart as the deity depicted in E in fact it has been
suggested that the reason later redactors combined J and E the way that they did was because were the
two sources left independent of each other yet side by side the discrepancies would become too
apparent freedman 1987 this would be intolerable since having texts that contradict each other
pertaining to the nature acts and will of Yahweh would surely discredit the whole business
of legitimizing later social political and religious institutions
ultimately however as freedman recognizes the combination of P with J E and D was even more
problematic for realism than the combination of J and E with each other because P was intentionally
polemical whereas Yahweh as depicted in J E would denigrate Aaron and favor Moses
Yahweh as depicted in P denigrated Moses and favored Aaron while Yahweh in J E
held that anyone could be a priest P's Yahweh insisted that only descendants of Aaron could
hold that office whereas the Yahweh in J E had angels made animals talk had human habits and
could be seen by humans Yahweh as depicted in P would have none of that D meanwhile came from
a circle of people who were as hostile to P as the P circle were to J E these two priestly groups
had struggled over centuries for priestly prerogatives authority income and legitimacy
although suspicious it is therefore hardly surprising that when the depictions of Yahweh
in D and P are compared with each other one gets the feeling that whatever extra textual
God there may be these two sources cannot be talking about the same deity the Yahweh of D
endorses the Deuteronomistic beliefs while the Yahweh of P favors those of the priestly circle
this is problematic for realism for it suggests that there was never any real Yahweh who did
would either P or D claims he did rather the contradicting depictions of the deity suggests
that both the Yahweh of D and the Yahweh of P are fictitious literary constructs created by humans
for ideological purposes now someone has put all these sources together henceforth one finds
that realism is collapsing by the fact henceforth one finds that realism collapses by the fact that
the Yahweh of J is not the Yahweh of E both of whom cannot be the Yahweh of D who is certainly not
the same deity as the Yahweh of P the combining of Yahweh's J E D P in R resulted not only in an
Old Testament depiction of Yahweh which is problematic for systematic theological or
philosophical perspectives itself because of the irreconcilable internal contradictions
as Friedman realizes another outcome of the J E D P hybrid deity of R is that as a whole
the depiction of Yahweh is now one that neither J nor E nor D nor P ever intended in addition
it is doubtful that R which is the final redactor in case you've been lost when I mentioned the
letter R was cognizant of the chimerical nature of the deity he constructed it's a mythical version
the final product is therefore a god who was created by all the authors but who would be
unreal to all of them even if not from an insider's perspective where there was a lack of historical
consciousness and awareness of theological differences it makes no difference to the
discrepant criteria of identity involved think of the gospels many critical scholars
recognize that each gospel needs to be isolated in understanding the content of each if you try to
mesh them together you have destroyed the message of mark you've destroyed the message of Matthew
you've destroyed the message of Luke and you've destroyed the message of john that's the analogy
I would paint for combining the sources in the various contradictory natures of Yahweh technically
the redactor has destroyed any one of those particular concepts in conclusion the argument
from theological pluralism is the first argument in the case against realism since the case itself
constitutes a cumulative argument against the existence of Yahweh the particular argument
reconstructed here should not be appropriated in isolation taken by itself it does not yet justify
thoroughgoing anti-realism all that has thus far been established is that given the presence of
contradictions in the depictions of Yahweh in the text at least some of the representations
have no bearing on supposed extra textual reality one of the Yahweh's can't exist
the argument from unorthodox theology according to what many consider philosophically
orthodox christian views of god the real god is the only god one the real god can do anything
omnipotence the real god knows everything omniscience the real god is everywhere
omnipresence the real god is only good omnibenevolence in philosophy of religion these attributes are
often disputed as to what they mean and whether they are conceptually coherent without digressing
into those debates while acknowledging a need for nuance in other contexts if god is hypothetically
assumed to exist and is as described above it follows that any instance of yahweh depicted
in ways contradicting the profile of the entity supposed to be the real and only god has no
counterpart in the world outside the text as the previous argument implies however the text
listed below are not proof text to justify a certain view of yahweh as the only quote biblical
in quote view alternative perspectives are already acknowledged and the focus here is simply on the
texts the condition of possibility for the meaningfulness of their religious language
includes unorthodox theological assumptions text implying that yahweh is not the only god
the text in question are but some of the many examples that seem to allude to an underlying
form of theism that cannot be equated with philosophical monotheism i shall go through
egypt in this night and will smite all the firstborn in the land of egypt of humans as well as of the
animals and i shall enact punishment over all the gods of egypt exodus 12 verse 12 now i know
that yahweh is greater than all the gods exodus 18 verse 11 you may serve no other gods exodus 20
verse 2 you may not curse the gods exodus 22 verse 28 when elion gave an inheritance to the nations
when he parted the sons of humans from one another he determined the borders of the peoples according
to the number of the sons of el but yahweh's portion is his people jacob is his measured out
inheritance deuteronomy 32 verse 8 thus yahweh the god of israel drove away the amorites before
his people israel and you want to take it in possession will you not take into possession
what your god shamosh gave you as possession while we take into possession all that yahweh our god
drives out before us judges 11 verses 23 to 24 and david said they have driven me out so that
i may not join the inheritance of yahweh when they say go away serve other gods now let my blood
not fall onto the earth far away from the face of yahweh sam to 26 17 to 20 and when the king of
moab saw that the battle got too intense he took his firstborn son and sacrificed him as burnt
offering on the wall then a great wrath came down upon israel so that they left him and went back
to their land second kings three verse 27 god stands up in the assembly of the gods he judges in
the midst of the gods i have said myself you are all gods and you are all sons of the most high
psalms 82 verses 1 and 6 for who is like yahweh among the sons of the gods psalms 89 verse 7
all the gods bow down before him you are exalted over all the gods psalms 97 verses 7 and 9
thus he will act with the help of a foreign god daniel 11 verse 39 from the perspective of popular
orthodoxy there are no other gods from this it follows that the depiction of the deity yahweh
who believes in other gods and operates in relation to their actions must be fictitious
yahweh as depicted in those texts at least according to a consistent orthodox perspective
does not exist text implying that yahweh is not omnipotent
consider the following scenarios all of which can be interpreted as alluding to a kind of power
in no way indicative of divine omnipotence in any meaningful sense of the word
yahweh needs to travel to obtain information yahweh is afraid of human potential and shows fear
there are some inevitable future destinies of people that even yahweh seems powerless to change
yahweh after barely overcoming jacob in a wrestling match cannot reveal his name and needs to depart
from the scene before the light of dawn yahweh cannot lead the people by way of the philistines
as he fears they will want to turn back yahweh cannot allow israel to drive out the canaanites
too quickly for the fear that the wild animals might become too many yahweh did not completely
destroy all forces of chaos leviathan yam yahweh's people cannot defeat their enemies because they
have iron chariots despite the fact that he was with them yahweh is said to need help in some
matters and cursed the people who did not come to his aid yahweh looks around for assistance
the dead are beyond yahweh's sphere of control a closer look at each of these statements shows that
though it is not explicitly and unequivocally noted there are definite physical and metaphysical limits
to yahweh's power beyond what is logically possible in other texts the deity has no problem
when faced with similar obstacles should one therefore assume that the real god is actually
omnipotent or at least more powerful than yahweh as depicted in some of the scenarios in the old
testament the ontological implications are once again all too clear if the true god is omnipotent
then yahweh as depicted in the text implying the opposite must be a character of fiction
with no extra textual counterpart if the other is assumed then vice versa
text implying that yahweh is not omniscient
consider the following examples from the text implying that yahweh is less cognizant than popular
orthodox conceptions would have us believe then yahweh said shall I hide from Abraham what I am
going to do while Abraham will surely become a great and mighty nation and all the nations of the
earth will be blessed in him furthermore yahweh said the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is truly
great and their sin is very heavy I want to go down in order to see whether they have actually
acted according to the outcry over them which has come to me and if not I want to know it
Genesis 18 verse 17 but the angel of yahweh called to him from the heavens and said
do not lift your hand against the boy because now I know that you fear God and did not hold
back your only son from me Genesis 22 verse 12 when Pharaoh let the people go God did not let
them travel along the road which led to the land of the philistines even though it would have been
shorter for God said what if the people become fearful when they see war and decide to go back
to Egypt Exodus 13 verse 17 yahweh looked down from the heavens upon the sons of man in order to
see if there were any who understand and seek God Psalms 14 verse 2 and I thought after she has done
all this she will return to me but she did not return I thought how I would set you among my sons
and give you a pleasant land a heritage most beautiful of all nations and I thought you would
call me my father and would not turn from following me surely as a faithless wife leaves her husband
so you have been faithless to me oh house of Israel Jeremiah 3 verses 7 and 19 if there is
a God who knows all there is to know even what the future holds then depictions of the God Yahweh
who does not have such knowledge are implied to have no extra textual counterpart they don't exist
in reality texts implying that Yahweh is not omnipresent in traditional orthodox philosophical
theology it is also commonly believed that the real God is omnipresent consider then the following
passages all of which seem to imply that Yahweh is let's just say not so in any of the different
ways in which it is conceptualized in philosophy of religion and they heard the voice of Yahweh the
God while he was walking in the garden during the wind of the day and Yahweh the God called to the
human and said to him where are you Genesis 3 verse 9 and Cain went away from the face of Yahweh
and went to live in the land of nod east of edin Genesis 4 verse 16 then Yahweh went down to look
at the city and the tower that the sons of man had built and Yahweh said come let us go down and
confuse their language so that the one does not understand the other Genesis 11 verses 4 to 9
and after he had finished speaking with him God went upwards from Abraham Genesis 17 verse 22
and he dreamed and there was a ladder placed on the earth of which the top reached to the heavens
while the angels of God went up and came down from it and behold Yahweh stood at its top
Genesis 28 verses 11 through 12 while Yahweh descended onto the mountain Sinai from its top
Yahweh called Moses to the top of the mountain and Moses climbed up and Yahweh said to Moses
climb down and warn the people that they must not attempt to break through to Yahweh to see
Exodus 19 verses 20 to 21 and Yahweh came down in a cloud and went to
and stood by the entrance to the tent then he called Aaron and Miriam and they came out
numbers 12 verse 5 and David said they have driven me out so that I may not join the inheritance of
Yahweh when they say go away serve other gods now let my blood not fall onto the earth far away
from the face of Yahweh first Samuel 26 verses 17 to 20 and he said go out and stand on the
mountain before the face of Yahweh and look Yahweh went past while a strong wind tore the mountains
and broke the rocks from before Yahweh but in the wind Yahweh was not and after the wind there was
an earthquake but in the earthquake Yahweh was not and after the earthquake there was a fire
but in the fire Yahweh was not first Kings 19 verse 11 behold Yahweh comes out of his dwelling
he comes down and treads on the heights of the earth Micah 1 verse 3 these are but a few examples
of texts that would be meaningless on the assumption that Yahweh is present everywhere if one assumes
the real god is omnipresent then Yahweh when depicted as not such has no extra textual counterpart
for the depiction in question
unorthodox elements in the relation between Yahweh and evil in the Old Testament
consider the following texts all of which seem wittingly or unwittingly to implicate Yahweh
in the actualization of evil in a most general sense and Yahweh answered him who makes the mouth
for the man or who makes dumb or deaf and seeing or blind is it not me Yahweh Exodus 4 verse 11
behold it is I and there is no other god apart from me I kill and I make alive I destroy and I heal
and there is no one who can save from my hand Deuteronomy 32 verse 39 but he answered her
the good we would accept from God and not the evil Job 2 verse 10 I am Yahweh apart from me
there is no other I form the light and create the darkness I actualize salvation and create evil
it is I Yahweh who does all these things Isaiah 45 verses 5 to 7 who speaks and causes it to happen
did Yahweh not command it does not both evil and good proceed from the mouth of the most high
Lamentations 3 verses 37 to 38 will evil befall a city unless Yahweh has done it
Amos 3 verse 6 be behold does it not come from Yahweh of hosts that people toil for fire and
that nations tire themselves out for nothing Habakkuk 2 verse 13 if one assumes that the real
God is not in such a manner responsible for evil in general there is only one consistent conclusion
possible Yahweh as thus depicted in these texts as interpreted and taken seriously without imposing
what one would like to be the case must be a character of fiction and does not exist outside
the text in some then the argument from orthodoxy as reconstructed is ambiguous with regard to its
value for the case against realism it works only on the assumption that if there is a God
then this God has the attributes associated from this it follows that the unorthodox
depictions of Yahweh never had any relation to extra textual reality the argument from polymorphic
projection in this section i reconstructed several arguments to justify the claim that Yahweh is
indeed a product of polymorphic projection what i mean by this will be clarified as the argument
unfolds in brief it may be said that based on taking the biblical texts seriously as well as
discussions of God in philosophy and religion any depiction of Yahweh that is clearly the invention
of a culturally conditioned and historically determined human imagination cannot exist in
the world outside the text Yahweh's errant beliefs about extra textual reality when Yahweh
speaks in the first person in the Old Testament he often makes statements that include references
to alleged actual historical cosmographical geographical biological and other types of
phenomena however the knowledge Yahweh exhibits about these phenomena often contain elements of
error and superstition if taken seriously it would seem that the God Yahweh knew about as much
about the world as the people who worshiped him and no more consider the following examples
Yahweh himself believes that the universe was created over a period of six days Yahweh himself
believes there is an ocean above stars in the skies from where rainwater falls to the earth
Yahweh himself believes that the land mass of the earth floats on water Yahweh himself believes
that thunder is literally his own voice Yahweh himself believes that the clouds were forms
of transport for deities in the sky Yahweh himself believes that there is literally a
place underground where the dead live as shades Yahweh himself believes in the existence of other
gods and the existence of fictitious locations like the mountain of the gods in the north
and the garden of the gods Yahweh himself believes in the historicity of characters like Noah,
Job and Daniel not the biblical character Yahweh himself believes in the existence of the
mythical creatures like the Leviathan, Rahab, Behemoth, sea monsters, flying dragons, demons of
the field, malevolent spirits of the night, etc, etc, etc. Yahweh himself believes that the force
of life is in the blood and that the wind equals spirit equals breath animates human and divine
bodies. Yahweh himself actually believes that, apart from the wayward people of Israel, all the
peoples of the earth worship him and burn incense in his honor. In other words, Yahweh's own knowledge
of astronomy, cosmography, physics, meteorology, zoology, biology and history is but a replica of
the primitive historically and culturally relative superstitions held by the Old Testament peoples
themselves. If the realities in question do not exist in the world outside the texts, neither
does Yahweh who believes in them. Yahweh's all too human divine socio-political setup.
Another disconcerting element in the depictions of Yahweh in the Old Testament concerns the way
the deities' heavenly socio-political setup is constructed. Consider the following example of
what amounts to obvious examples of sociomorphic projection as opposed to intentionally metaphorical
depictions of a supposed transcendental reality or factual representations of an actual state of
affairs. Yahweh has a kingdom whose political constitution resembles and first millennium BCE
monarchy. Yahweh's abode is a palace where he sits on a throne. A favorite form of transportation
in the heavens is horse-drawn chariots. Yahweh has an army of sword-bearing warriors. Yahweh
makes use of counselors. Yahweh's abode has first millennium BCE music. Yahweh has sons who,
amongst other things, marry, have intercourse, eat bread, sing together and dress in linen.
Yahweh writes on scrolls. See, the book of life in Exodus 32 and all the sources. The fact that
Yahweh's eternal heavenly socio-political scene, and even shale, just happens to correspond in detail
to an all too particular, all too contingent, and all too human historical and cultural setup
gives the game away. It would be absurd to think, for example, that something like a sword or a
monarchy is something that exists in eternity and on a cosmic scale, or that a particular
dialect of Hebrew is the eternal language of a real god outside the text. If the first millennium
BCE, ancient Near Eastern socio-cultural context, do not correspond to how things always were and
will be in reality outside the world of the text, then neither do depictions of Yahweh
inextricably linked there too. Ecological anthropology, environmental psychology,
and the ontological status of the nature and acts of Yahweh.
A particular people's deities often bears an uncanny resemblance to their immediate environment.
The gods of people who live in the ice wastes of the polar regions are different. The gods of the
people living in rainforest near the equator. In turn, both of these are different from the gods
of subtropical locales, or the deities of people living on the grassland plains. In short, the
nature, attributes, acts, and the particular modes of revelation and intervention of a region's deities
are almost always inextricably bound up with the features and processes of the immediate environment.
How this claim might be substantiated can be ascertained from the ways in which the person,
nature, acts, interventions, attributes, divine abode, divine servants, etc. of Yahweh are all
bound up and dependent on all two local environmental phenomena. Thunderstorms occur in Palestine,
and thunder is the voice of Yahweh. Lightning and hell is weapons, and the clouds a means of
transport for the deity. Volcanoes occur in the region, and the appearance of Yahweh on many
occasions has volcanic activity as part of the theophany. Earthquakes occur in the region,
and were often perceived to be part of Yahweh's theophany, or a mode of wrath when he was angered
and ready to judge the people. Drots occur in the region, and these are interpreted as being a result
of the sins of the people, while good harvest, resulting from sufficient rainfall, are associated
with Yahweh's blessing. The country is flanked by the sea in the west, and so there are stories
about the way Yahweh keeps this force of chaos within its preordained limits. To the south
and east there are the desert regions where howling winds blow and wild animals sojourn.
Not surprisingly, both the people and Yahweh thinks of these locales as the haunts of demons.
Much of the area is dry land, and oasis in the deserts are conceived of as being
gardens of the gods. Certain types of animals live in the region, and the cherubim and the seraphim
of Yahweh bear a striking resemblance to these animals, or hybrid versions, mixomorphs derived
from them. The region is at the center of international economical and political developments,
and therefore most of the time merely a vassal to one of the superpowers in the southwest, Egypt,
or northeast Babylonia and Assyria, Persia. The socio-political developments of the region
are interpreted as being a result of divine judgments on either Israel and Judah, or on its
enemies. In the same way one might wonder if Baal could have been conceived of by people living in
the polar regions or in the Amazon. One might also wonder whether Yahweh can exist outside his
natural habitat in Palestine. For instance, if the Israelites were suddenly transported to a
certain polar region where there were no mountains, no thunderstorms, or earthquakes, no rough seas,
and very different fauna, what would happen to Yahweh, his acts, and his world? Would he be served
not by hybrid beings that are part lion, part eagle, and part bull, for example cherubim and
seraphim, but maybe by sentinels that are a combination of polar bear, seal, and penguin?
If there are no seasonal droughts and no other hostile enemy people wanting control of their
territory, how can Yahweh judge his people and become active in their socio-political life?
What would happen to the sacrifices to Yahweh in a place where the specific animals and ingredients
for the particular offerings are not available? Just as Yahweh's socio-political world is clearly
a projection of humans from a certain historical and cultural world onto the cosmos, so too is
Yahweh and his relations in the context of the natural environment in which he was worshipped.
The All Too Human Divine Taboos and Motivations
Another element of the Old Testament discourse about Yahweh that might lead to the conclusion
that it is all too human is the deity's taboos and motivations for action.
Example of these as problematic can be had by asking certain questions, which have to be read
while bracketing dogmatic assumptions as to the usual answers familiar to us.
Why does Yahweh want to create humans to till the soil?
Why does Yahweh want to be worshipped? Why does Yahweh want to be feared?
Why does Yahweh want sacrifices? Why does Yahweh not want images of himself?
Why is Yahweh jealous of other gods? Why does Yahweh need to make a covenant with people?
Why does Yahweh want to tell people how to live?
Why would Yahweh create animals he considers abominations?
Why would Yahweh endow humans with physiological processes he finds offensive or unclean?
Why are ambiguous and tedious ways of divination?
Lots, ephod, the Urim and Thummim, dream incubation, etc.
Needed when Yahweh could just tell people directly, plainly, and quickly what is the
case in any given situation? Why are both Yahweh and His heavenly court all of the male gender?
Why is it usually the case that when the people mix with foreigners,
they begin to serve the other gods and forsake Yahweh?
Why is the reverse not similarly a concern?
Of course, answers to these questions are readily available for certain biblical and
dogmatic theological perspectives. Yet, if we ask these questions and think about them with such
apologetic or historical responses, would the answers be in favor of realism?
Many far more specific questions like these could be asked regarding certain details in the Old
Testament text associated with etiological and post-exilic concerns of the authors, for example.
Why does Yahweh speak a particular dialect of period Hebrew when he creates the universe,
especially since this language and the particular dialect in which he spoke would only develop
in a particular religious community during the first millennium BCE?
Why did Yahweh make Adam from dust and create Eve from his rib?
Rather than in another fashion, for example, creation by word, thought, etc.
Why did Yahweh destroy the people via a flood rather than by some other means,
like make them all disappear, cause the earth to swallow them, etc.
Why did Moses want Jethro to show them where all the good camping places in the desert were
located if the pillar of cloud and fire already indicated this to them?
Why did Yahweh want Moses to count the people when surely he could just tell him how many there were?
Why would a god feel the need to specify such precise, elaborate, and peculiar
prescriptions for the service in his sanctuary? Why should the leaders of a city have to vow
that they did not kill someone found mysteriously murdered in a nearby field
when Yahweh could simply show them who committed the crime?
Why does Yahweh fear that if the people take the root of the Philistines,
they will be too scared to fight and want to go back to Egypt,
especially since this happens anyway on the route Yahweh himself had chosen?
Of course, there are good literary, critical, and religious historical answers
to these questions related to the history and composition of the texts,
even so asking why questions suggest the possibility that the obvious answer to such
interrogations may indeed be what not everyone wants to hear.
The Yahweh as depicted is the creation of the authors and does not exist outside the text.
In some of the argument from polymorphic projection, what Yahweh knows, believes,
and does seems suspiciously similar to the views and ways of humans from the ancient
Near East during the 1st millennium BCE. It seems clear that this gives the game away and
unmasks the origin of associated imagery of Yahweh as the product of the 1st millennium BCE,
ancient Near Eastern peoples anthropomorphic, psychomorphic, and sociomorphic projections.
If this is the case, the Yahweh as depicted is a character of fiction and does not really exist
outside the text. The argument from mythology and syncretism.
Whenever there are traces of mythological motifs, syncretism, and superstition in the
Old Testament with parallels to non-biblical religions, there are ontological implications.
One cannot deny the existence of other gods and affirm that of Yahweh when the latter and the
former overlap in identity or in profile. On a literary level, in terms of form,
there are many, many examples related to textual genres such as covenant, prayers, blessings,
stories, psalms, and prophecies which all have counterparts in ancient Near Eastern religions.
More specifically related to the concept of God, consider the following ways in which the
character of Yahweh appears to be nothing more than a watered down version of his predecessors
in the Promised Land. Parallels between Yahweh and the Canaanite deity El. There is no explicit
and direct polemic in the Old Testament against the god El. The patriarchs are depicted as familiar
with a Canaanite deity called El. The divinity referred to in the Theophoric suffix in the name
Israel, Yahweh is often referred to as El with or without qualification. Yahweh like El is called
the bull, not mighty one of Jacob. Like El, Yahweh is described as being a creator, a shepherd,
and a kind and merciful father. Like El, Yahweh is depicted as an aged anthropomorphic deity.
Like El, Yahweh has a divine council that surrounds his throne. Yahweh like El is called the father
of humanity. Yahweh like El lives at the source of the rivers amid the cosmic flood. Yahweh like
El is often depicted as dwelling in a tent. In actual historical pre-exilic
Israelite religion, Yahweh like El was often worshipped as the head of a Pantheon with Asherah
as his consort. Now let's cover parallels between the depictions of Yahweh and Baal.
Yahweh like Baal is depicted as a storm deity. Yahweh like Baal has thunder as his voice.
Yahweh like Baal hurls the lightning as like a spear or shoots it like an arrow.
Yahweh like Baal is designated as a rider of the clouds. Yahweh like Baal is depicted as a
son of El. Yahweh like Baal defeated the serpent Leviathan or Lotan. Yahweh like Baal had a conflict
with Yam, the sea. Yahweh like Baal is sometimes depicted in the form of a bull or calf. Yahweh
like Baal is often referred to as Elian, most high. Yahweh like Baal has a divine cosmic mountain in
the far north, Zaphon. Yahweh like Baal is depicted as victorious over mud, death, and is designated
the living god. Yahweh like Baal is called Lord Baal Adan. These parallels do not exhaust the
affinities between Yahweh and other gods, yet there are several dilemmas for realism given the
existence of such marked syncretism. The syncretistic features in the depiction of Yahweh are older
than Yahwism. These pagan depictions are not believed to be the result of actual divine revelation.
The pagan deities to whom the particular features were ascribed are considered to be non-existent.
The character of Yahweh in the Old Testament is often constructed from the building blocks of such
mythological discourse. If this is true, then Yahweh as thus depicted has the same ontological
status of the discourse in which he is depicted. Yahweh as thus depicted is therefore himself a
character of mythology. Yahweh as depicted has the same ontological status as other
mythological gods. Miscellaneous syncretistic features in the cult of Yahweh
The basic structures and operations, the cult of Yahweh is not at all very different from the
cults of any other ancient deity. This begs the question, why would the real and only god
seem to be Yahweh? Would want to model his worship on those typically associated with idols?
Consider, if you will, Exhibit A, the Salamonic Temple, the construction of which was allegedly
commanded by Yahweh himself. Numerous studies have confirmed the suspicion that the architecture of
this temple resembles that of Phoenician temples dedicated to pagan deities. Many of the furnishings
of the Temple of Yahweh even appear to allude to mythological motifs in ancient Near Eastern
mythology. For example, the 12 bulls and the Sea of Bronze are strangely reminiscent of pagan
symbolism depicting the deities El, Ba'al, and Niamh. The cherubim resembles the mythical
mixomorphs of Syrophoenician and Babylonian iconography. The fact that the temple was also
called a palace or house of Yahweh and was situated on a holy hill alludes to the myths
about the abode of the gods on the cosmic mountain at the source of the rivers. The division of the
sanctuary into three courts, like Ulam, Hekal, and Dabir, also presumes the factuality of
mythical symbolism and was very common in pre-Israelite temples. Given these parallels between
Yahweh's temple and that of allegedly non-existing pagan deities, the question arises as to why
Yahweh, if he actually existed and hated pagan religious phenomena as the Old Testament texts
insist, would command Solomon to let pagans build his temple according to their mythical
conceptions of the cosmos. If Yahweh is assumed to have commanded the building of a mythical
microcosm modeled on pagan superstitions, then he is no different from any other ancient deity
and therefore does not exist. Alternatively, even if there is a real god called Yahweh,
if this god did not literally command the building of his mythical abode, then the deity Yahweh depicted
as commanding the building of his mythical abode is a character of fiction and does not exist.
In some then, this section articulates yet another argument in the case against realism
in Old Testament theology. There are parallels between the Old Testament and the text of other
religions while the latter predates the biblical discourse. The deities in the parallel mythological
motifs and or legends and or superstitious representations are now considered not to exist.
Yahweh's nature, attributes, and relations were sometimes from motifs derived from representations
of those gods. Therefore, Yahweh in these depictions, with reference to those aspects,
has the same ontological status as the deities featured in the parallel mythologies,
superstitious representations. Therefore, Yahweh, like the other mythical deities,
can now be assumed not to exist. The argument from fictitious cosmography
A substantial quantity of research on Old Testament cosmology is currently available.
In the present section, however, this very same issue will constitute the focal point of the discussion.
After the introductory discussion of some obviously fictitious elements of Old Testament
cosmography, attempted to address the issue of the god Yahweh's alleged and actual whereabouts
in the world, both within and outside the texts, the solid firmament. In the first creation account,
God said, Let there be a firmament between the waters and let it separate waters from waters.
God then made the firmament and separated the waters beneath the firmament from the waters
above it, and it was so. And God called the firmament heavens. The Hebrew word for firmament,
rakia, also appears five times in Ezekiel, four times in Ezekiel 1, 22 through 26, and once in
Ezekiel 10, 1. In each case, the context makes it clear that what is being referred to is literally
a solid vault or dome. The description of the firmament in Ezekiel 1, 22 also appears to allude
to the scenario depicted in Exodus 24, 10. In the latter text, Moses and the elders are depicted
as dining face to face with their god Yahweh. They also see a pavement of sapphire underneath his feet.
In Job 37, 18, the question put to Job by Elihu reads,
Can you spread out Rakar the sky and make it as strong or hard as a molten cast metal mirror?
The ontological problem for realism here is that, in the real world, this solid firmament in the
skies does not exist in the world outside the text. Moreover, and perhaps more important,
not only the people of the Old Testament, but also their god Yahweh believed in and acted as if
there really is a solid dome in the sky. But if the firmament does not exist, how can the character
Yahweh depict it as the one who dwells above it, who himself created it, and who genuinely believes
in its existence be considered as anything other than character or fiction? The ocean of rainwater
on the other side of the stars above the firmament. Parenthetically, it would be prudent
to add a few words about the water that the Old Testament and Yahweh claimed could be found above
the firmament. In the Old Testament texts, this body of water was conceived of as being
the same as the sea, i.e., it is an ocean. The deep to home of Genesis 1, 2 is divided in Genesis 1,
6, 7 into two bodies of water. The body of water below forms the earthly sea. The water above
since it is the other half of the to home, forms an ocean in the skies on the other side of the
stars. The presence of the ocean in the skies can be ascertained from the fact that the sky above
is blue by day and black by night like the sea itself. Moreover, when it rains, the opening
of the windows in the solid firmament allows a great deal of water to be poured out onto the
earth below. It is extremely important to notice the fact that, according to the Old Testament
and Yahweh, this body of water is depicted as being above the firmament. From the ancient point of
view, this is a logical deduction from the fact that the blue and black heaven appear to be behind
the sun, moon, and stars. Moreover, the sun, moon, and stars are depicted as being part of and inside
the solid firmament in which they are fixed so as not to fall to the earth. This body of water
from whence rains come as far as the Old Testament texts and Yahweh are concerned is on the other
side of the solid firmament. In the world of the text, it is further from the earth than the sun,
moon, and stars. The latter is inside the firmament whilst the waters are behind it. Apparently,
our rainwater comes from the other side of the cosmos. Such an extra-textual scenario
does not exist, but what is its implication for the ontological status of Yahweh as depicted in
the Old Testament? Either Yahweh believes in this fictitious phenomenon or he does not. If he does,
as the Old Testament texts suggest, then he is ignorant. Since this is inconceivable on the part
of the creator of the universe, an arrogant and ignorant Yahweh cannot exist. If, however,
Yahweh does not believe in the waters above the firmament, it follows that the deity by the same
name depicted in the Old Testament texts has having created this non-existent state of affairs
and as believing in its reality obviously has no extra-textual counterpart.
Shayol, the subterranean land of the dead. In the Old Testament's vague and unsystematic cosmography,
there is literally a land of the dead underground. While it is mostly assumed and implicit,
while it is mostly assumed and implicit, at some points it is made explicit. For example,
consider the plain sense of the texts of Numbers 16, 20 through 35.
If these people die like all people and are visited with the visitation common to all people,
then Yahweh did not send me. But if Yahweh creates something new and the ground opens
her mouth and eats them with all that belongs to them and they go down alive into Shayol,
then you will know that Yahweh abhorred these men. And when Moses finished speaking, the ground that
was underneath them was torn and the earth opened her mouth and ate them with their households
and all the people who belonged to Korah, including all their possessions. In this manner,
with all that was in their possession, these people went down alive to Shayol. The earth
then covered them and they perished from the congregation. All the people of Israel that were
present then fled from their cries because they said maybe the earth will eat us too. Numbers 16,
verses 20 to 35. In this passage, the literal earth literally opens up and Korah and company
go down alive into a very literal underworld called Shayol. Not just the men, but their goods as well
dropped down into the subterranean place, which is clearly not a spiritual dimension in another
reality. In texts like these, Shayol is not merely a figurative concept used to denote the state of
the dead or simply the grave. As an aside, it may be jokingly noted that the rare incident involving
Korah had one upside, contrary to the view of the author of Psalm 49 and many a preacher. Apparently,
you can take it with you. If it isn't one thing, it's another. The scenario depicted in Numbers
16, 20 through 35, though rare as far as human descents go, is not an isolated instance in the
cosmographical sense. In Isaiah 14-9, Yahweh speaks to the king of Babylon saying,
Sheol beneath is moved to meet you when you come. It stirs up the shades for you,
even all the chief ones of the earth. This text points the picture once again
of a subterranean realm of the dead along the same line in Amos 9-2. Yahweh himself contrasts
digging down into Shayol with climbing up into the skies. As the sky is literally up there,
the only reasonable opposition is that it's an antipode. Shayol was conceived of and as being
literally down under. Of course, the fact that in all three of the texts noted above, it is Yahweh
himself speaking and acting as though Shayol is literally underground, since there is no Shayol
insider under the earth, which is of course in all these texts presumed to be flat. It follows
that the god who believes in the reality of the state of affairs must himself be a creation of
the people who held such beliefs. In other words, Yahweh is thus depicted as a character of fiction
and along with his subterranean netherworld does not really exist.
Examples of other fictitious cosmographical features
Apart from the aforementioned fictitious phenomena and locations, the following
list gives an indication of some additional non-existent alleged realities, contrary to
the claims of the Old Testament authors and the god they worshiped and despite the different
perspectives involved regarding each location or event, the places and spaces and view have no
extra textual counterparts. The young earth, we know Genesis, we also have 1 Chronicles 1-10,
that when scrutinized with regard to the dating of creation leaves us with a 6,000 year old universe.
The order of creation, Genesis 1 with the creation of the sun and the moon,
after the creation of the earth and its vegetation and Genesis 2 with the creation of plants and
animals after the creation of male human. The duration of creation, Genesis 1 for 6 24-hour
days and Exodus 31 17 for an endorsement of this belief by Yahweh himself, also Genesis 2 for a
total duration of one whole day for the creation of earth and heavens. The eternal earth, however
this contradicts the view of Isaiah 34-4 and 51-6. The corners of the earth, the pillars of the earth
and the mountains supporting the vault of the skies, the flat disk earth, the ocean on which
the land floats, the storehouses and chambers in the sky for the hell, rain, snow, etc.
The low starry heavens, the objective reality of constellations in the sky, the moving celestial
bodies, the unmoving earth, the subterranean chamber of the sun, the personified sea with its
dragons, the stars as living entities, the desert wastes that are the haunts of demons,
the ends of the earth just beyond Armenia, north, Iran, east, Spain, west, and Ethiopia, south.
The sun, moon, and stars as small lights beneath the waters above the firmament,
the center or navel of the world at Jerusalem, Jerusalem in the far north at the source of
the waters, the garden of Eden at the source of four rivers, the mountain of the gods in the north,
the garden of the gods, the multiple levels of the underworld, the mountains at the entrance to
the underworld, the river of the underworld. Contrary to discussions of whether the existence
of God can be scientifically verified or not, the existence of locations in which Yahweh is depicted
or not, once the locations and scenarios are evaluated for verification or falsification
in the extra-textual realm, modern astronomy, geography, meteorology, and geology may not be
able to disprove the existence of God or say, but they can disprove the existence of extra-textual
counterparts in which Yahweh exists in the world of the text, that what appears on the list
have no counterpart in the world outside the text. Where is Yahweh?
Suppose Yahweh does exist in the world outside the text, where would he be? More specifically,
where, according to the text of the Old Testament, does Yahweh himself locate his own abode in the
world also alleged to exist outside the text? In response to this question, it is well known
in biblical scholarship, but there are different views in the text, representative of diversity
over time and at any one time. Contemporary readers are, however, so used to a reinterpreted
or trivialized biblical cosmology that they do not realize that Yahweh being in heaven, for example,
meant being literally located up there. This is evident from what is implicit in related
references to divine movement from and to his abode aside from the temple.
People and one language. And this is just the beginning of their undertaking. Now,
nothing that they plan will be impossible for them. Come, let us go down and confuse their
language so that the one does not understand the other. Thus, Yahweh scattered them from there
over the whole earth and they stopped building the city. Genesis 11 verses 4 to 9. And after he
had finished speaking with him, God went upwards from Abraham. Genesis 17 verse 22. Then God ascended
from the place where he spoke to him. Genesis 35 verses 9 to 13. And Yahweh spoke to Moses and said,
Look, I shall come to you in a thick cloud that the people may hear when I speak to you and so
that they will always believe in you. Furthermore, Yahweh said to Moses, Go to the people and sanctify
them today and tomorrow and let them wash their clothes and keep themselves ready by the third day.
On the third day, Yahweh will come down on the mountain of Sinai before the eyes of all the people.
Exodus 19 verses 9 to 13. Look down from your holy dwelling in the heavens. Deuteronomy 26 verse 15.
Yahweh threw great big hailstones from the heavens on them. Joshua 10 verses 10 to 11.
Cords of Sheol surrounded me and the cords of death came upon me. When I was anxious,
I called to Yahweh. I called out to my God. Out of his palace, he heard me. My cries were in his ears.
Then the earth trembled and shook. And the foundations of the heavens shook and trembled,
for he was angry. Smoke went up in his nose and a fire proceeded from his mouth. Coals from within
him burned. And he bent the heavens and came down and dark clouds were underneath his feet.
He rode on a cherub and flew. Yes, he appeared on the wings of the wind. He put darkness around
him as huts, the collection of waters, thickness of clouds. Out of the shining before him,
coals burned. Out of the skies, Yahweh thundered and the most high made his voice heard. He sent
out arrows and scattered them, lightning and confused them. The bottom of the oceans became
visible. The foundations of the world were revealed by the threat of Yahweh and by the blow of his
nose. Out of the heights, he stretched out his hand. He grabbed me, pulled me out of the great
waters. To Samuel the 22 verses 5 to 17. Also see Psalms 18 verses 5 to 18. And while they were
walking and talking, there suddenly came a chariot of fire with horses of fire that parted them.
And Elijah ascended to the heavens in the storm. So Kings 2 verse 11. If one takes these texts
seriously, Yahweh in the world of the text and heaven is not another dimension or spiritual realm.
It is just higher up within what we call the natural world. Readers who think they believe in
the biblical God and also that God is not literally up there and do not experience some sense of
culture shock when reading these texts have not understood it or its ontological implications.
Centuries of reinterpretation have doled us to the obvious fact that Yahweh in the world of these
texts at least is located in a domain with no extra textual counterpart. The argument from
fictitious cosmography can be summed up along the following lines with regard to its implications
for realism pertaining to the ontological status of Yahweh as depicted in the text. Since the
cosmography of the Old Testament that even Yahweh himself believes in is fictitious,
it follows that the abode, acts, and person of Yahweh depicted in relation to those features
must all likewise not exist in the world outside the text. The argument from fictitious history.
In this section, I'm not going to attempt to prove in a positivist
fashion what supposedly and actually really did happen or to deny historicity based on
naturalist or other assumptions. Rather, we are simply going to try to take the Old Testament
as a whole seriously and run into a few problems for realism regarding the ontological status of
Yahweh as a result. The argument from intratextual contradictions. If it could be shown that there
exists within the discourse of the Old Testament two or more contradictory accounts of an event in
which Yahweh was either directly involved or indirectly related to, the following theoretical
possibilities arise. One of the accounts is fictitious and therefore Yahweh as described in
relation to the particular discourse is a character of fiction and technically speaking does not exist.
Both accounts may be fictitious and though there might have been an extra textual reality
that the text allude to, Yahweh as depicted in these texts does not actually exist. Here then
are but a few of the many historical contradictions that may have anti-realist implications pertaining
to the ontological status of Yahweh as depicted in the text. Yahweh created plants, then animals,
then humans, male and female together. Yahweh created a male human first, then plants, then
animals, then the female human. People already worshiped Yahweh by name before the flood.
People only started to worship Yahweh by name after he revealed it to Moses. Human lifespan
is limited to 120 years. Many humans after that exceed this limit. The duration of the flood
was 40 days. The duration of the flood was 150 days. The animals on the ark were two of each
type. They were only two in terms of the unclean animals but seven pairs were to be taken from
the clean animals. The people of the earth had their own languages before the tower of Babylon
incident. The people all spoke one language until after the tower of Babylon incident when Yahweh
confused their speech. Abram was 70 years old when his terra died. Abram was 135 years old
when terra died. Ishmael was an infant when Hagar carried him into the desert. Ishmael was already
16 years old at the time. When Jacob fled from his home he was 40 years old. When Jacob fled from
his home he was 77 years old. Jacob was renamed as Israel by God east of the Jordan at Panil.
Jacob was renamed as Israel by God west of the Jordan at Beth El. The number and chronology of
the plagues. The number and chronology of the plagues. The number and chronology of the plagues.
The exodus occurred after a stay of 60 to 120 years in Egypt. The exodus occurred after a stay
of 400 to 430 years in Egypt. The sea was crossed after Yahweh caused a strong east wind to blow.
The sea was crossed after Moses parted the water to form two walls. The names and numbers of the
tribes. A contradictory list of the name, names, numbers of the tribes. A contradictory list of
the names, numbers of the tribes again. Another contradictory list of the names, numbers of the
tribes and another contradictory list of the names and numbers of the tribes. Again another
contradictory list of the names, numbers, of the tribes, the routes taken, and the itineraries
of the exodus in the Sinai Peninsula. Alternative and contradictory constrels of the desert wanderings,
the wording of the Ten Commandments, a contradictory version, and another contradictory
version. Yahweh himself wrote down the law. It was not Yahweh, but Moses who wrote it down.
The name of the mountain of God, where the law was given, was Sinai. The name of the mountain of
God, where the law was given, was Horeb. During the exodus and the wandering in the wilderness,
Israel was commanded to sacrifice to Yahweh. Yahweh never asked the Israelites to sacrifice to him
when they left Egypt and were living in the desert. The time when the Ark of the Covenant was constructed,
a contradictory account, one version of the Sinai Theophany, a contradictory version of the same
incident, one version of the Manet and Quels incident, a contradictory version of the same
incident, one version of the water from the rock incident, a contradictory version of the same
incident, one version of the golden calf incident, a contradictory version of the same incident,
itineraries in the desert, a contradictory list. The sacrificial animals were slaughtered at the
entrance to the tabernacle, the sacrificial animals were slaughtered elsewhere. The Levites
were first sanctified at Sinai the Levites were first sanctified at a later period, Yahweh expressedly
commanded the Israelites to restrict their worship in the Promised Land to one centralized
Coltic place. Apparently Yahweh never required this. The Canaanites were completely annihilated.
They were only oppressed. Yahweh did not destroy all the pagan people of the land because he didn't
want the wild animals to become too many. Yahweh did not destroy the pagan people of the land in
order to see whether the Israelites would be faithful. The process of settlement was quick.
The process of the settlement was slow. David killed Goliath. El Canaan killed Goliath. One
account of Saul's death. A contradictory version. And another contradictory version.
Saul's family died with him. Apparently they did not. Yahweh incited David to host a census.
It was Satan who incited David. One version of Yahweh's sundial miracle for Hezekiah.
A contradictory version. As can be seen in the textual references of the contradictions presented
above, historical contradictions are present both between different books relating the same
incident or scenario as well as within the same book where two or more sources with contradictory
data have been juxtaposed. They feature throughout Old Testament history and in every major epoch
from creation to the post-exilic period. Moreover, Yahweh could not be involved in two contradictory
accounts of the same event if any of those events had an extra textual historical counterpart.
In the case of at least one fictitious account, the ontological status of Yahweh is depicted in
the particular text is ipso facto of the same fictitious nature. The argument from cosmographical
fiction. In the previous argument, the ontological problems pertaining to fictitious cosmography
and its implications for the ontological status of the character Yahweh were discussed in detail
for present purposes. It should suffice to note that certain events depicted in the Old Testament
intended as historical accounts about a past event cannot be such based on the fact that they
feature spatial locations which never existed in extra textual reality. If it is true that the
scenarios depicted in the text involve fictitious spatial locations, then ipso facto the events
occurring therein that are inextricably intertwined with a particular cosmography obviously did
not actually happen. Moreover, the god Yahweh depicted as a character in those stories therefore
never really acted and or spoke in the way described in the world outside the text. Therefore,
Yahweh has depicted in text where historical realism is dependent on fictitious cosmography
as part of allegedly historical scenarios must be a character of fiction. The argument from the
impossible narrator's perspective, unless one can validly justify a belief in the mechanical
inspiration of the Old Testament text, it would seem unavoidable to concede that the
perspective of the narrator in certain passages must be judged as impossible. In this regard,
the following scenarios apply. When the narrator gives a very detailed account of the private
dialogue of the antagonists featured in the narrative while the text simultaneously implies
that no one who could have had anything to do with the writing of the text could in any way
have known what it recounts, when a narrator gives a detailed account of what the characters
are thinking in secret, when an account is given of acts and dialogue while all present
are subsequently killed or related in such as manner as to make any direct or indirect contact
with the later author impossible. And Yahweh the God said, Behold, the human has now become like one
of us in knowing good and evil. Now, in order to prevent him from sending his hand and take from the
tree of the life and living forever, and Yahweh the God sent him from Eden to toil the ground from
which he was taken, Genesis 3 verses 22 to 24. Then Yahweh said, Shall I hide from Abraham what
I am going to do, while Abraham will surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the
nations of the earth will be blessed in him. After all, I have chosen him so that he will
command his children and his house after him, that they must keep the way of Yahweh and do what is
just and right, so that Yahweh can bring upon Abraham what he spoke to him, Genesis 18 verses
17 to 19. When Pharaoh let the people go, God did not lead them on the way to the land of the
Philistines, even though it was closer. Because God said, The people may repent if they see war
and want to return to Egypt. Exodus 13 verse 17. Thereupon, Balaam said to Balak, Stay with
your burnt offering and I will go away. Maybe Yahweh will meet me and whatever he lets me see,
I will tell you. Numbers 23 verse 3. And they waited until they were embarrassed. But he did not
open the doors of the upper room. And when they went to fetch the key and open the door, their Lord
was lying on the floor. But while they tarried, Ehud had fled. Judges 3 verses 25 to 26. Then
Samson called to Yahweh and said, Lord Yahweh, think about me and strengthen me just this one
time, O God, that I may wreak myself over one of my two eyes on the Philistines. And Samson
put his arms around the two central pillars on which the house rested. And Samson said,
Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself with all his might so that the house
fell in on the rulers and on all the people who were inside. Thus were the dead whom he
killed in his death more than those whom he killed during his life. Judges 16 verses 23 to 30. And
the Philistines heard the sound of the rejoicing and said, What sort of noise like a great war cry
is in the camp of the Hebrew? And the Philistines became scared and said, God has come into the
camp. And they said woe to us because such a thing did not happen yesterday or the day before.
Woe to us. Who will save us from the hand of these awesome gods? It is the same gods who
smote the Egyptians with all sorts of plagues in the desert. Have courage and act like men,
Philistines. Then you will not serve the Hebrews as they have served you. Act like men and fight.
1 Samuel 4 verses 6 to 9. And Saul said to his armor bearer, Draw your sword and kill me with it.
Otherwise, these uncircumcised will come and kill me and mock me. But his armor bearer did not
want to do this, for he was very afraid. Then Saul took the sword and fell into it. When the
armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he himself fell into his sword and died. 1 Samuel 31 verses
4 to 5. But when Haddad heard in Egypt that David has slept with his fathers, Haddad sighed the
Pharaoh, Let me go that I may go to my land. Then the Pharaoh said to him, But what do you lack with
me? That suddenly you desire to go back to your land. And he answered, Nothing, but please allow
me to go. 1 Kings 11 verses 21 to 22. And Jerobim said in his heart, Now the kingship will return
to the house of David. If these people go up to sacrifice in the house of Yahweh in Jerusalem,
then the heart of these people will return to their Lord to rehabeme the king of Judah,
and they will kill me and go back to rehabeme the king of Judah. 1 Kings 12 verses 26 to 27.
Ben Haddad, who also went into the city, fled from room to room. Then his servants said to him,
Look, we have heard that the kings from the house of Israel is merciful,
1 Kings 20 verses 30 to 31. While they prepared themselves early in the morning,
and the sun went up over the waters, the Moabites saw at a distance the water read as blood.
And they said, It is blood. The kings must surely have attacked each other, and the one defeated
the other. Now to the booty, Moabites. But when they came to the camp of the Israelites,
the Israelites prepared themselves and defeated the Moabites. 2 Kings 3 verses 22 to 24. And one
day when the sons of God came to set themselves before Yahweh, the Satan also came among them.
Then Yahweh asked the Satan, Where did you come from? And the Satan answered,
Yahweh, and said, From journey across the earth which I have crossed. And Yahweh asked the Satan,
Did you see my servant Job? Job 1 verse 6. It is not difficult to infer from the wording of these
texts that the writers knew they were being creative and not merely report something that
actually happened. Throughout the Old Testament, there are so many mundane and in the heat of the
action scenes in the text where the possibility and likelihood of any record or detailed memory
handed down seems to be ruled out by the text itself. For this reason, theories of revelation
and inspiration were required later. However, this is not assumed in the text themselves. In
addition, since the character Yahweh features in many such texts, or is in some way implied to be
related to the events depicted therein, realism with regard to the deity as thus depicted must
be considered as being problematic. Yahweh as thus depicted related his dialogue, actions,
and relation being the imaginative and ideological construction of the narrator must himself be
considered as a character of fiction. The Argument from Numerical Absurdities
Hardly anyone has utilized the argument from numerical absurdities in the text against realism
in Old Testament theology as thoroughly as the 19th century bishop of Natal, South Africa.
Namely, John Colenso attempted to establish the total number of Israelites. If there were,
603,500 warriors were above 20 years of age. When women and children were included, the total
number of Israelites who left Egypt must therefore have amounted to at least 2 million. Yet Moses
is presented as speaking to an entire crowd. According to Exodus 1318, the Israelites went
out of Egypt armed for battle, which begs the question, why the pharaoh would let the slaves
possess arms to be able to form an army overnight. If they had marched out of Egypt five in a rank,
allowing one yard between the ranks, the troops would have formed a line 68 miles,
stretching from Egypt to the Promised Land. Upon leaving Egypt, they were also issued with tents.
That would mean over 200,000 tents would have to have been obtained from somewhere if one assumes
that 10 people on average occupied each tent. If each Israelite had 36 square feet or four
square yards available for living space, the camp referred to would have to be 8 million square yards
or 1,652 acres. Yet each day, wood and water were said to be obtained from outside the camp
in the wilderness. Human excrement also had to be taken outside the camp for the Israelites.
The feast related to the Exodus, namely the Passover, also led to numerical absurdities,
especially with reference to the time needed for instructing the people. And the amount of male
sheep required to be slaughtered also presents difficulties. All of this suggested that from
a numerical point of view, the story of the Exodus featuring these details cannot be historically
true. It was, however, not the only narrative where apparent numerological problems have led
scholars to consider the particular story fictitious. For this example, and with reference to similar
scenarios elsewhere, we may conclude that if this is the case, then there is a problem with
realism regarding the ontological status of the character of Yahweh, whose words and actions
are inextricably bound up with the details of the text. The argument from chronological schematization.
The biblical chronology has very little in common with actual historical chronology,
and is an ideological, mythical, and fictitious construct presented for the purpose of propagating
the belief. History is somehow divinely ordered. Hughes, in 1990, provided many tables of chronological
data to justify these claims. For example, consider the following instances of obviously
mythical and contradictory chronology discussed by the author. Obviously, artificial mythical
chronological constructs. Creation. Seven days. The age of the world. Four thousand years equals
a hundred times forty. Pre-Abrahamic period. One thousand six hundred years. Abraham in Mesopotamia.
Seventy-five years. Patriarchs in Canaan. Two hundred and fifteen years. Post-Abrahamic period.
Two thousand four hundred years. Time in Egypt. Four hundred and thirty years. Time between
Exodus and foundation of temple. Four hundred and eighty years. First temple period. Four hundred and
eighty years. Pre-exilic period. Four hundred and thirty years. Exilic period. Fifty years.
Second temple period. Seven hundred and twenty years. In addition, certain other periods seem
similarly artificial, schematic, and contrived. Age of Enoch. Three hundred and sixty-five years.
Age of Lamech. Seven hundred and seventy-seven years. Jacob flees from his home at age forty.
Moses flees Egypt. Forty years old. Comes back. Eight years old. And dies. One hundred and twenty
years old. Forty plus forty plus forty. Moses on the mountain. Forty days. Two or three times.
Duration of desert wanderings. Forty years. Duration of David's rule. Forty years.
Duration of Solomon's rule. Forty years. Age of Job before the crisis. Seventy. And after.
A hundred and forty years. Seventy plus seventy. Seen from this perspective, what may, from one
point of view, be of merely historical or literary interests, can have devastating ontological
implications for theological realism. If the chronological scheme of the Old Testament narratives
of the creation to the post-exilic period is mythical and therefore fictitious,
then so is the deity Yahweh, whose acts are inextricably bound up with and located on that
particular timeframe. The Argument from Mythological Motifs.
In a previous argument, the implications of the presence of myth in the text for the ontological
status of Yahweh were discussed. For the purposes of the present discussion, however,
it's important to note how mythological motifs in supposed historical accounts tend to complicate
realism with regard to the historicity of those accounts. If a story purporting to be history
did not happen as depicted, given the presence of a mythological motif, it follows the irrespective
of whatever truth the story intends to communicate, Yahweh, as depicted in such a text, is a character
of fiction. The Argument from Alleged Archaeological Falsification.
Based on arguments from silence, the nature of biblical sources, the material culture of the
periods in question, comparisons between biblical and extra-biblical historical data,
and through other methods of biblical criticism, critical historiography, and archaeology,
the following textual scenarios amongst others are demonstrably fictitious.
A worldwide flood in the third millennium BCE, the life and times of the patriarchs Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob, Joseph as a Hebrew second in command in Egypt, Moses as a son of the Pharaoh,
the two million strong exodus of Israelites from Egypt, the route of the exodus in the Sinai Peninsula,
the conquest of Canaan by Joshua, i.e. Jericho, the situation in Palestine during the period of the
Judges, David and Solomon as major role players in the Ancient Near East, the repentance of Nineveh
as a result of a Hebrew prophet named Jonah, Daniel as a prophet and advisor to the monarchs in Babylon.
Suffice to say, if it is true that the historicity of the scenarios noted above have been falsified
by archaeology, then whatever God or gods there may be, the God Yahweh depicted as being involved
in those scenarios must himself be a character of fiction and therefore does not really exist outside
the text. The Argument from Anachronisms in the Text
One of the strongest indicators that the events depicted in the Old Testament text are not
historically factual seems to be the presence of a myriad of anachronisms in the discourse.
What is supposed to have been eyewitness accounts or at least reliable tradition
contains reference to people, places, events, beliefs, and customs that were demonstrably
not part of the historical context in which the biblical authors placed them.
Popular examples of such anachronisms include the references in Genesis 2, 10-12 to Asher,
Kush, and the economic importance of gold allegedly prevalent during the time of Adam in 4000 BCE.
These references correspond with the scenario in the first millennium BCE and not with anything
before the Bronze Age. The reference to the name Yahweh in Genesis and the theophoric elements of
the personal names prior to the revelation to Moses. The reference to domesticated animals,
as well as names of places, Dan, Bersheba, etc. and people, Philistines, Chaldeans,
Edomite kings, in the patriarchal narratives, early 2nd millennium BCE, all of which can only
be dated to the later part of the 2nd millennium BCE or seen more reflective of scenarios in the
first millennium BCE during the exile. The references to the Philistines, Edomites, and Moabites in
the story of the desert wanderings 1500 BCE or so, people whose existence as such are only
attested from the 12th century BCE onwards. The references to places in religious cultic
rites and ideas in Deuteronomy by Moses which are unknown in Samuel Kings and or not attested
before the late monarchic period. The references to peoples and places in the account of Joshua's
conquest that did not exist in the timeframe projected for the Israelite invasion of Canaan.
The reference in the stories of Solomon to the Kingdom of Sheba whose existence is not attested
before the 7th century BCE. The numerous projections and chronicles regarding certain elements in the
cult of Yahweh in the pre-exilic period which in fact only originated in the time after the exile.
These are but some of the anachronism scholars have claimed existed in the Old Testament text.
If this is true, not only realism pertaining to historicity is at stake but also with regard
to the ontological status of Yahweh who is depicted as being part of the details of those
particular contrived and superficial scenarios. As such, the deity that interacts in these contexts
is a character of fiction and did not exist. The Argument from Intrusive Literary Constructs
According to literary critical analyses, most of the plot in the Old Testament is of such a
nature as to discredit its implicit claims of being historically factual. Aesthetic considerations,
literary strategies, poetic agendas, and many other types of rhetorical maneuvers suggest that
the authors were more concerned with writing an artistic and entertaining story than bothering
with what actually happened in empirical past reality. This is all very well but from a certain
philosophical critical perspective, concerned with the ontological status of Yahweh, this argument
against historicity is also implicitly part of the argument of historical fiction against the
existence of Yahweh as depicted. For if there never really was a Joseph who dreamt and went to Egypt
and landed in jail and became second in command to Pharaoh, what are we to make of all the references
to Yahweh in that story? A second peculiar feature of many Old Testament texts that were
traditionally read as history is the ways in which certain sections of the discourse appear quite
contrived, detailed, poetic, or symbolical. Examples of seemingly constructive and contrived
texts include songs in the narrative, did actual historical characters sing, pray, or spoke like
this, and who wrote down the exact words, long and intricate blessings of a dying leader, various
types of prophecies that were obviously Vaticania, Xeventu, extremely detailed speeches in a context
bereft of modern recording facilities, long prayers of individuals, the contrived and fictitious nature
of biblical genealogies, the obviously story-like nature of the tales of people like Joseph,
Jonah, Job, Daniel, and Esther. Numerical symbolism involving the numbers 3,
4, 7, 10, 12, 40, and multiples thereof. See like 70 nations, seven three-year famines,
three days cleansing, seven days creation, seven years famine, seven major judges,
each fighting a different one of the seven Canaanite nations, seven times around Jericho,
10 plagues, 12 tribes, 40 years wilderness, 40 years reign of Moses, David and Solomon,
40 days without food, 40 days journey, 70 years in exile, 480 years in slavery,
4,000 year history, etc. Not only some part of narratives seem contrived, sometimes there seem
to be something suspiciously constructivist about the names of the characters. Consider the names
of people like Abel, Vapor Breath, David, meaning beloved, Nabel, meaning full, Job,
meaning enemy, Maklan, sickness, Chilean, vanishing, Orpa, she who turns her back, Ruth, the companion.
All of these seem to encompass the essence of the particular character's role in the
particular stories. Abel's life is but a mere breath, Jacob betrays people,
Nabel was a full Job or God was some sort of enemy, and so on. Are we really to believe
that actual people got such names at birth and then inexorably lived out the destiny alluded to
therein? Or could the presence of such names and therefore characters all be part of a literary
construct that attempts to communicate elements of irony, tragedy, and the popular ancient motif
of destiny and fate? Indeed, the correspondence between the names of the characters and their
life stories seem to give away the game and unmasks the fact that one is either dealing
with magical fate or otherwise with what is apparently not history. If this is the case,
and the names, and therefore also the stories, are merely literary creations with little relation
to any historical extra textual counterpart, then it follows that the character Yahweh,
who is active in those stories, must also be fictitious. There is a third important way in
which artificiality in the discourse unmasks the fictitious nature of the alleged historical
incidents in the text. Yahweh speaking in the first person through the mouths of his servants
the prophets. The first reason why one cannot take the prophetic oracles seriously as being the
literal words of Yahweh concerns the history of the text itself. Whatever originally happened
that led to the composition of an oracle where Yahweh speaks in the first person, the fact of
the matter is that the oracle as it now features in its particular context is a product of the
disciples of the prophets from later periods. For this reason, the situation that Yahweh seems
to be addressing in a particular text was not the supposed original situation, but one in which
the later compilers and collectors of the oracles considered the words to be fitting, thus even
if Yahweh literally spoke the words ascribed to him. As these now stand, they feature in a context
for which humans decided they were relevant and are therefore in the technical sense indeed fiction.
Words taken out of context and applied to a new scenario, whatever their truth value,
are technically not literally the words of Yahweh as the authors or redactors pretend it to be.
Second, the currently available words of Yahweh speaking in the first person does not even have
the same context as when they were when first written down by the original authors, whoever
that may have been. Textual criticism, redaction criticism, tradition criticism, and even source
criticism have demonstrated the presence of numerous alterations, adaptations, reinterpretations,
commendations, interpolations, and various other types of creative rewriting and editing
of the particular oracles. Seen from this perspective, what Yahweh says in the first
person is technically not the actual word of a deity spoken long ago, rather it is technically
the words put into his mouth by subsequent writers, editors, copyists, and other scribes.
In the third instance, another indicator of the fictitiousness and artificiality of the prophetic
oracles where Yahweh speaks in the first person is, as was noted in the all too human knowledge of
Yahweh, where the supposed very words of Yahweh are found in the prophetic oracles, the deity's
knowledge of the world, of history, as well as his views on morality, and a host of other issues,
never transcend the superstitions of his speech writers. When Yahweh refers to fictitious entities
like Leviathan, fictitious locations like Sheol, or fictitious history references to fictitious
scenarios from the stories of Noah, Abraham, Jacob, Moses, David, and others, it gives the game away.
The presence of such elements in Yahweh's speeches unmasks the fact that the particular
discourse was not uttered by an actual and therefore knowledgeable deity. They are speeches
constructed by humans who believed in the reality of these things. Fourth, the fact that many things
Yahweh predicted would happen did not occur. Does little encourage to realism regarding
the ontology involved? Consider the following examples of what critical scholarship has alleged
as being clear examples of unfulfilled prophecies and predictions by Yahweh as depicted in the text.
Yahweh said the promised land would extend all the way to the Euphrates river, but it never did.
In Leviticus 27 and Deuteronomy 28, Yahweh promised prosperity if Israel was to be faithful to the
covenant, but there were times of trouble despite their obedience. In Joshua 8 28, Yahweh said I
would be destroyed and would never be rebuilt, yet this city was still occupied after the exile.
Yahweh believed that the Davidic monarchy's dynasty would never end, but that prophecy was
nullified by the exile after which there never again was a Davidic monarchy. According to Yahweh
in 2 Kings 22, Josiah would die in peace, but according to 2 Kings 23, he died in battle.
Yahweh believed that the Israelites taken by the Assyrians into exile
would return led by a descendant of David's father Jesse, but this never happened.
In Isaiah 17, Yahweh claims that Damascus would soon be destroyed forever long ago,
yet it remains inhabited even today. According to Yahweh in Isaiah 19 24 through 25,
also the nations of Egypt and Assyria will become his people, as was the case with Israel.
This never happened and can no longer happen since the nation called Assyria no longer exists.
According to Yahweh in Isaiah 34 17, the region of Edom would forever remain desolate,
but this never happened and it is still inhabited. Yahweh believed in an eschatological scenario,
the details of which can no longer be realized because of historical and cultural change.
According to the text in Jeremiah 22 18 through 19 and 36 29 through 31,
Yahweh predicted that King Jehoachim would be given the burial of an ass,
but according to 2 Kings 24 6, the death of this king involved no such event.
According to Yahweh in Jeremiah 29 10 and Daniel 9 2, the exile would last or lasted
70 years, when in fact it lasted only 48. Yahweh predicted that after the exile,
Assyria would make a comeback and overthrow the Babylonian Empire, but once again he was wrong.
According to Yahweh in Jeremiah 50, the end of the Babylonian Empire would spell the end for
the city of Babylon. However, when the empire fell, Babylon continued to be inhabited by many
peoples, including Jews for a long time. According to Yahweh in Ezekiel 26,
Tyre would be destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar, but according to Ezekiel 32, this did not happen.
According to Yahweh in Ezekiel 29, Egypt would lie desolate for 40 years, but throughout history,
this has never happened. According to Yahweh, a new temple would be built with a new united and
enlarged Israelite state with water blowing to the Dead Sea, causing it to diminish its salt content
and harbor many species of fish. This never happened. Yahweh believed that Zarubabel would
re-establish the Davidic monarchy, but once again this did not happen. The eschatological scenarios
in Zechariah 12-14 can no longer be realized. This is so not only because it has not yet come to
pass, but also due to the fact that many of the particular role players involved, House of David,
Canaanites, and particular landmarks, locations referred to in the text, no longer exist.
Yahweh believed that the world would end after the Greek Empire's domination, but it did not.
These are but a few of the many examples of what alleged to be Yahweh's own predictions,
but which never materialized. Presumably, no real God outside the text would have
aired in this way, and consequently the character of Yahweh issuing these prophecies
must be a character of fiction. Finally, a seriously devastating issue for realism with regard to the
text pretending to give a verbatim report of the words of Yahweh can be found in the results of
rhetorical criticism and literary criticism, poetry analysis. We may marvel at the poetic
quality of the composition of the oracles and point out poetic devices such as alliteration,
assonance, various sorts of parallelism, wordplay, structural repetitions, inclusios,
meter, and a variety of other poetic structures in the text. Curiously enough, however, for some
reason most readers do not even think to consider how the presence of these features is a dead giveaway
of its artificiality that is in the writings found in prophetic books such as Isaiah, Jeremiah,
Ezekiel, Hosea, Amos, and the others. We are dealing not with the report of an actual dialogue
by the deity himself, but with poetry. See, like a literary construct. Nobody speaks spontaneously
in poetry. The fact that the words of Yahweh, beaking in the first person, our poetry, gives
the game away. It shows that what the text present as the words of Yahweh to the people
via the prophet were not literally a recording of an actual oracle of the deity. Based on these
observations of the history, composition, and poetic quality of the text, it was possible to
establish that what is presented as the literal words of Yahweh and the deity who uttered them
have no extra textual counterpart. The Argument from Metatextual History
This argument focuses on the ontological dilemmas
for realism, as these are implicit in some of the critical reconstructions of the origin,
nature, and developments of both Yahwism as religion and the text that would later come
to constitute the Old Testament. It will be argued that rather than Yahwism being the one and only
true religion and the Old Testament being the inspired word of God, a combined historical
and philosophical approach to their origins and development shows that this is not the case at all.
An All Too Human Metatextual History
The Problem of All Too Recent Origins
From this perspective, having a deity Yahweh arriving at the very earliest sometime during the
late in the second millennium BCE appears very suspicious indeed, especially given the fact
that according to many Old Testament texts, this deity claims to be the first and the last,
meaning the only God who actually really ever existed. Combine this with what has already
been pointed out regarding Yahweh's own knowledge, morality, and divine socio-political setup, etc.
As being identical to that of the first millennium BCE, humans and the farcees exposed,
Yahweh stands unmasked as a human creation who has no idea of history before the second millennium
BCE. He is blissfully unaware of just how late an arrival his alleged revelations actually are.
As such, he is exposed as the belated creation of first millennium BCE humans who created him in
their own image and not vice versa. He is a character of fiction and therefore does not exist.
The Problem of All Too Local Origins
It is not only Yahweh's all too recent arrival on the religious scene that gives the game away,
there is also the matter of Yahwism's all too local origins. Like the argument from all too
recent origins, the argument from all too local origins, irrespective of the theory one endorses
in relation to this problem, exposes the cult of Yahweh as another demonstrably human creation
with no extra textual divine reality to back it up. The scandal of particularity is indeed scandalous
and as much as it yields another piece of evidence in support of the main thesis.
The ontological status of Yahweh is probably not very different from other local divinities like
Baal, Marduk, Zeus, Jupiter, Cis, Ketzokwadal, Modimo, or whoever else one may wish to name.
In short, like these local deities mythology, Yahweh as depicted in the Old Testament text,
does not have a reality outside the context of those who worship and write about him.
The ontological problem posed the revision of religious beliefs.
One will often hear someone referring to the Old Testament view regarding a certain topic.
Whether it concerns God, ethics, creation, death, eschatology, the spirit, or whatever
else, it is not uncommon to hear people claiming that such and so is what the text coherently
and systematically has to say about the particular matter. The fact that there are paradigmatic
developments to be found in the character of Yahweh's own religious beliefs pertaining to
issues of theology, ethics, thenatology, eschatology, and a host of other low-key
is devastating for realism in Old Testament theology.
The people and their gods beliefs did not simply develop as a result of supplementary or
complementary progressive revelation. Beliefs changed via competition between mutually exclusive
ideologies and contradictory perceptions of what is what. The change of beliefs not only
among the people but also concerning what Yahweh himself thinks about a given issue
gives the game away. It unmasks Yahweh as a historically and culturally relative human
construct. It shows that there is not really a God who believes those things and actually
revealed what he knew to the people. Instead, what we have here are the views of people
who in every subsequent period of their history created a God called Yahweh in their image,
their problem with referring to God in the Old Testament. One reason critical scholars are not
bothered by theological pluralism and in all too human origin of the depictions of Yahweh in the
text is because they consider the discourse to provide a historically and culturally relative
view of God. With such a designation, it is insinuated and assumed that there is a God and
that the Old Testament merely provides us with some particularly Israelite views of him. The
reality of a divine nature is taken for granted and so is the belief that the Old Testament witnesses
to that particular reality. However, the substitution of God or Yahweh may be presumptuous
given the lack of correlation in associative meaning supplied by some of the readers when
they read what they believe about God into each reference to Yahweh. The distortive influence
and inconsistency involved in a speaking of God rather than the God Yahweh can also be seen in
the way Old Testament scholars speak about other deities. For example, these scholars will usually
not say that the Iliad and the Odyssey present the Greek view about God, nor will they think
of suggesting that the text from Ugarit give us the Canaanite view of God. The texts of Babylonia
and Assyria are not considered to provide us with the Babylonian and Assyrian views of God.
To be sure, one suspects that such scholars will, in their treatment of pagan mythologies,
not speak of God anymore, but that they will instead refer to the specific deities in question.
Apparently, only the Old Testament speaks of God. The other texts speak of mythical entities like
Rey, Amon, Marduk, Shamash, El, Ba'al, Zeus, or Apollo. If these scholars were a little more
consistent and objective, they would not speak of the Old Testament's view of God. Instead,
they would aim to be more precise by assuming that all the Old Testament provides us with is a
people's view of its own God called Yahweh. Like the Greek, Canaanite, and other religious texts,
the Old Testament discourse is concerned with a specific deity. Since the texts pretend to express
the views of Yahweh himself in actual and normative fashion, follows that if the deity Yahweh as
depicted is not real, realism cannot be salvaged by relativizing the discourse and seeing Yahweh
as a primitive version of God. As is the case with pagan mythologies, if the deity,
depicted in the ancient discourse, is unreal, realism cannot be maintained by relativizing
the theology of the text and suggesting that the God in question still somehow exists,
but we have to think about him in new ways. One might as well try to update Zeus or Ba'al.
One might as well claim that even though such deities are obviously fictitious entities, Ba'al
or Zeus, per se, still exists. The texts merely present us with the Greek and Canaanite views of
God. Analogously, trying to equate Yahweh with God despite the collapse of realism with regard to
the depiction of the particular deity in the Old Testament is equally impossible. If Yahweh as
depicted is not real, then the God Yahweh does not exist, not even as God.
History of Repressed Anti-Realism
On one way of looking at it, the entire history of Old Testament interpretation in its various
cultural context can be reconstructed from an anti-realist perspective. Such a viewpoint reveals
that the collapse of realism with regard to the ontological status of Yahweh as depicted in the
text is not a phenomenon restricted to the post-enlightenment period. To be sure, throughout the
history of interpretation, those who have read the text have experienced some sort of tension
between their own views of divinity and the presentation of Yahweh in the Old Testament text.
Reconstructing the entire history of interpretation in detail is beyond the scope of this study.
However, as a preview of what such a history might involve and how its broad and general
outlines may be constituted, I decided to the case by reading the history of interpretation
as a history of repressed Yahwistic atheism, repressed anti-realist tendencies in the Old
Testament. As noted in the second argument, already within the Hebrew Bible itself,
the collapse of realism becomes apparent. This can be seen in the ways in which the
authors and redactors of the texts related to their sources and the received traditions
through reinterpretation, modification, censoring, editing, redaction, recasting,
recontextualization, and rearticulation. Many of the writers tried to represent their audience
with a contemporary, orthodox, relevant, and updated depiction of Yahweh. This intratextual
collapse of realism has been amply demonstrated by the disciplines of source, tradition, redaction,
and ideological criticism as well as through the history of religion and Old Testament theology.
Critical Old Testament theology acknowledges the fact of intracanonical diversity that is not
constituted by mere supplementary and complementary perspectives on one central element, but by
extreme tension, deliberate reinterpretation, and intentional polemical and apologetical agendas.
The dilemma posed for realism by the intratextual pluralism within the Old Testament cannot be
alleviated by recourse to theories of supposed progressive revelation or theological perspectivism.
The Old Testament text shows a marked tendency for intra-religious critique and the collapse
of established theological dogma. While some Old Testament scholars might euphemistically refer
to this as interbiblical exegesis or theological dialogue, it is actually problematic ontologically.
Some authors, redactors, and editors apparently did not think too much of the depiction of Yahweh
in other sources, traditions, books, etc. Comparisons between texts like Genesis 1-11
vs. Isaiah 40-55, Exodus vs. Jeremiah, Proverbs vs. Ecclesiastes, Deuteronomy
Ezra Nehemiah vs. Ruth, Nahum vs. Jonah, Samuel through Kings vs. Chronicles, etc. etc. All reveal
that, for certain authors, realism pertaining to earlier depictions of Yahweh was no longer
tenable. As a result, when it comes to the issue of whether realism pertaining to the
depiction of Yahweh in the Old Testament as a whole is valid, the implied answer must be in the
form of a question. Which Yahweh? Which depiction? Which books ideology? Which sources ideology?
Which stage of transmission? In short, the pluralism in the Old Testament texts themselves
witnesses to the fact that technically, Yahwistic atheism is already present within the earliest
stages of interpretive history. It is not correct to say that the biblical writers
were not bothered by contradictions, for they were. And sometimes they were not aware of these,
reading the texts a-historic. Even if they were not, it does not remove the ontological problem.
Repressed anti-realist tendencies, the textual variants, Septuagint Targums.
Though variable between editions and books, the Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible,
in the Septuagint, shows a marked tendency to counter what the translators consider to be
unorthodox and unbelievable elements in the traditional depictions of the Israelite deity.
On a substantial number of occasions, there is a tendency to recast the discourse in a form
that is more orthodox or related to contemporary beliefs. There are small but marked differences
in matters of historical data and frequent attempts at harmonization occur. Many obviously
unfulfilled prophetic predictions were rewritten to lessened cognitive dissonance and salvage
realism. The connotative and denotative senses of words were altered. The depictions of the deity
himself in the Greek translations reveal an aversion to anthropomorphism and to monism
in the actualization of evil. In short, many elements of the Hebrew text were unacceptable
and an embarrassment to later theological sensitivities. Moreover, the translators
of the Septuagint held views of history, God, morality, cosmology, and other issues that were
typically that of post-exilic form of Judaism. These views have developed to such an extent from
pre-exilic ideology that there was an urgent need for the creative and deliberate recasting
of much of the discourse. The changing hermeneutics of both reality and scripture can be seen as having
been influenced substantially by the larger Hellenistic cultural context.
The discourse of the Aramaic Targums with all its extensions and explanations
also manifest a tendency to read later theology into the textus receptus.
This strategy is also indicative of a repression of the collapse of realism in as much as it was
felt that the text needed to be explained whilst at the same time creating a different depiction
of the divine character altogether. As was the case with the Septuagint,
the Targamists often deliberately altered the discourse of the Hebrew text. Thus, there are
numerous reinterpretations, modifications, and distortions in the Targums pertaining to the
historical, prophetic, ethical, and theological discourse of its Hebrew sources.
The ways in which the Targamists altered the received tradition to update its theology and
render it more orthodox by contemporary standards reveal the fact that for these authors,
Yahweh has depicted in many ancient Hebrew text was no longer a believable entity but an embarrassment.
Repressed anti-realist tendencies in the Apocrypha and Pseudographic literature.
In the Apocrypha and Pseudographical text of the Old Testament, there are numerous illusions to the
books that now constitute the Hebrew canon. These illusions often contain additional information
and legendary embellishments to the extent that it creates. In a subtle manner, a rather different
theology of the original story, there is also a marked tendency to rewrite history and to
qualify and recast many of these less acceptable depictions of the god Yahweh. Many attempts were
made to remove embarrassing anthropomorphisms in the texts. Repressive reconstructions were
necessary to absolve Yahweh of a causative role in the actualization of evil through the creation
of a more complex demonology. Too much divine eminence and direct revelation in the older
sources were equally unacceptable. Such ideas were considered to be too crude, to be real and
had to be done away with by creating a host of intermediary beings, angels, to avoid direct
contact between humans and Yahweh. Moreover, since many of the heroes of faith had questionable
profiles, there was a need to romanticize and idealize the moral character of many an Old
Testament character. Miscellaniously, room was also created for the insertion of additional
explanatory details to Old Testament narratives, to prevent the offensive elements from being taken
as such and to guide the reader in finding a more congenial ideology in the text. In short,
through such strategies of re-articulation, the authors of the Apocrypha made it more than
apparent for them to. Realism with regard to the ontological status of Yahweh as depicted
was problematic and had, in fact, already collapsed.
Repressed anti-realist tendencies in the New Testament
The prevailing interpretation suggests that the authors of the New Testament, whether drawing
on the Masoretic text, the Septuagint, or other sources, similarly found it untenable
to maintain a realistic portrayal of many descriptions of Yahweh in the scriptures.
When it comes to the actual details of history, ethics, messianic prophecy, demonology, cosmology,
then etology and eschatology, there are numerous and substantial contradictions between the New
Testament texts and that of the Old, though this can partly be explained by the fact that the
authors often utilized the Septuagint and inner testamentary traditions. It changes nothing
about the reality of the contradictions in question. The way particular New Testament
writers handled the text of the Old Testament shows that these are people who by implication
would not have consented to believing in certain depictions of Yahweh as reconstructed
from contemporary historically conscious interpretations thereof.
Manifestations of Anti-Realism in Contemporary Scholarly Ideology
It would be naive to think that all readers of this study would be blown away and become
instant atheists. The history and philosophy of religion provide ample evidence of the
uncanny ability people have for dealing with data that contradict what they want to believe.
In this section, I will provide an anticipatory perspective of what can be expected should the
case against realism be encountered by scholars with deeply held sincere religious beliefs.
The viewpoint to follow is still part of the anti-realist argument and admittedly contains
a substantial amount of stereotyping and generalization, be that as it may. For present and
practical purposes, it aims to provide a useful, albeit rough, guide to the anti-realist tendencies
even in those contemporary scholars who would otherwise profess to be realists,
anti-realist tendencies in conservatism. In referring to conservatism, I have in mind the
type of scholarly communities who believe that, one, God exists. Two, this God is the God of the
Bible. Three, this God is also the God of perfect being theology and classical theism.
And four, the Bible is inerrant and inspired divine revelation. As numerous critical studies
have demonstrated, however, the realism these fundamentalists actually fight for has little
to do with the biblical texts and everything to do with their theological traditions, dogma
about the supposed nature of scripture. Moreover, instead of seeing biblical Christians as believers
from our perspective to the extent that they would deny the problems discussed,
actually do not believe in Yahweh as depicted in the world of the text. More specifically,
conservatives exhibit anti-realist tendencies when they argue for theological unity and coherency
of the text by claiming that the only problems argue for theological unity and coherency of the
text by claiming that the only problem is hermeneutical and that any remnants of imperfect
discourse about God or morality can be seen as relativized by the supposed progressive nature
of revelation. They argue cannot bring themselves to believe in Yahweh as depicted in the text,
but constantly have to mold him into the image of their own theological dogma by endless reinterpretation,
selectivity, and repression. They anachronistically and apologetically attempt
to play down, rationalize, and reinterpret the anthropomorphisms, psychomorphisms,
and sociomorphisms in the text. They piously attempt to rationalize and explain away the
apparent presence of mythological parallels, traces of syncretism, and elements of superstition
in the text. They argue for the scientific inerrancy of the text with an infinite number of
creative reinterpretations of both the ancient discourse and that of modern science. They argue
for the historicity of biblical stories with an infinite number of ad hoc rationalizations,
conjectures, harmonizations, and appeals to authority rather than accepting the text on
its own terms. They also argue bracket ontological problems generated by the history and philosophy
of religion by downplaying the all too human origin, nature, and development of Yahwism,
the Old Testament as sacred scripture, and their own fundamentalist religious ideology.
I reckon that, contrary to both their own claims and popular beliefs, conservatives are
therefore in a very real sense also Yahwistic atheists in as much as they refuse to believe
in most of the versions of Yahweh as depicted in the text of the Old Testament.
Unacceptable elements are continually repressed, reinterpreted,
decontextualized, bracketed, or evaded and always harmonized with a view of God derived
not from the Old Testament but from their conservative Christian doctrinal theology.
Since they believe that the real God is a Trinity who is omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent, and
holy good, conservatives have to repress the fact that they cannot come to bring themselves
to believe in those depictions of Yahweh in the text that contradict these theological reconstructions.
Of course, conservatives will deny that the case against realism should be taken seriously as a
proof that Yahweh does not exist. In an attempt to refute the case, they will probably quote a
plethora of their favorite carefully selected and dogmatically reinterpreted proof text to
prove the inerrancy and inspiration of scripture whilst asserting that God cannot lie, that Jesus
himself believed the Old Testament was the holy word of God and that the Holy Spirit assures them
of this fact through internal testimony. They will pill to the work of popular conservative
apologists, historians, archaeologists, creation scientists, theologians, philosophers, self-acclaimed
pseudo-intellectuals, etc. to ensure their followers that all the problems with realism
highlighted have been dealt with. They will provide examples of what they are desperate
to believe were successful attempts at solving particular problems or at providing proof and
verification of the historical or scientific veracity of the text. It is supernatural inspiration,
its unity and coherency and its uniqueness in its cultural context.
They will focus entirely on one or two of the more questionable claims made. Take it out of
context, refute it, and then generalize that the whole case is unconvincing and hopelessly
flawed and need not be taken seriously. They will stereotype this case as liberal, secular,
or atheist nonsense and claim that it is nothing novel but merely the product of modernist or
postmodernist, secular, philosophical ideas resulting from biased, anti-supernaturalist
assumptions. They will claim that the interpretations of some of the passages quoted in the case
against realism are completely incorrect and suggest alternatives to proof, inerrancy,
orthodoxy, and the text's harmony with conservative dogma. They will attempt to deal
with some of the problems presented in the case through certain apologetic strategies involving
any of the following fallacies, stereotyping, appeals to authority, circular reasoning,
begging the question, unwarranted assumptions, economy with the truth, ad hoc hypotheses,
ad hominem critique, changing the subject, appeals to pity, speculations with no basis
in the text, distortion of the issues, etc. Conservatives will always be more than ready
with answers to the problems presented. They will not come to the case with the intention
of learning the truth whatever that may be. Instead, they have already made up their minds
that whatever contradicts, what they believe cannot possibly be true, even if it is in the
Bible itself, hence the need for dogmatic isegesis, reinterpretation, and forced harmonization.
Moreover, the fundamentalist laity, desperate enough to believe anything as long as it salvages
conservative dogma, will usually accept everything the conservative scholars say,
no matter how far-fetched. Few lay people of the conservative mindset can remain objective enough
in reading the literature of their scholars. They have a notorious inability to ask themselves
whether the problems their conservative scholars dealt with were really solved,
or whether one of the informal fallacies noted above may be present in the apologetic discourse.
In some, though conservatives will generally claim to be realist, the realism they actually fight for
has little to do with that of the biblical text and everything to do with their theological
tradition's dogma about the supposed nature and expected contents of scripture. Conservatives
are blind to the fact that the God they believe in is the God of the early Christian philosophers,
a.k.a. the Lord rather than Yahweh, as depicted in the text.
Antirealist Tendencies in Critical Scholarship
Under the designation Critical Scholarship, I refer to the discourse of those who believe
the following. 1. God exists, however they may define God and exist. 2. The God of the Bible and
Christian philosophical theism is different, but historically related and ultimately identical.
3. The Bible contains unorthodox elements, errors, fiction, and myth. It should be clear
that though they appear to be critical realist, liberals are anti-realist when they, without
thinking about the ontological implications of their views, admit that the Old Testament contains
contradictory perspectives on Yahweh, admit that there are unorthodox elements in the depiction
of Yahweh which are not true as a depiction about the nature of the real God, insist that the
depictions of Yahweh in the Old Testament are merely Israel's historically and culturally
relative human perspective on divine reality, admit that there are traces of myth, superstition,
and syncretism in Old Testament Yahwism, admit that the Old Testament cosmology is a fictitious
construct, insinuate that Yahweh never really appeared, talk, and acted precisely as depicted in
the text, admit that the history of the formation of Yahwism and the Old Testament can be presented
secularly and sociologically as expressive of the all too human will to power of culturally
contingent ideologies. Of course, many liberals will dismiss the case against realism as misguided
because they will claim that its critique of the Old Testament God talk is based on a serious
misunderstanding about the purpose of the Old Testament as religious discourse. They will
argue that the kind of philosophical analyses prevalent in the case against realism attempting
to prove that Yahweh is not real is based on a misconception of the nature of truth and the
symbolic and metaphorical, pre-philosophical, and pre-scientific language of the Bible. They
will dismiss it as resultant from rationalist and positivist assumptions and form a modernist.
They will dismiss it as a resultant from rationalist and positivist assumptions and from a modernistic
hermeneutic with a view of history and epistemology that is alien to the culture of the Old
Testament peoples and ignorant of the latest developments in philosophy. They will convince
themselves that one need not pay any attention to this illegitimate enterprise of reading the
Old Testament from viewpoint of philosophy of religion, which they may feel puts unfair and
hermeneutically illegitimate demands on the texts. They will rationalize their evasion of
ontological problems by claiming that the Old Testament is not intended as a textbook for
philosophy, history, science, or theology. They will agree with some of the claims,
but will not be bothered by this as they view the erroneous views pertaining to matters of
history, science, and theology as simply Israel's limited perceptions, thus repressing the fact that
Yahweh as depicted shared the people's superstitions and that no other Yahweh has thus far revealed
himself. They will argue that the presence of myth and fiction is no problem and that these
genres can equally well serve as a vehicle to communicate profound religious truth. They will
claim that most of the God talk in the text were in fact contrary to appearances never intended
literally, but always metaphorically and symbolically, so that pluralism and anthropomorphism is
no problem. They will argue that problems with realism are nothing novel and have been dealt
with in the last two centuries of German biblical criticism, dialectical and postmodern theology
and philosophy. They will claim that it is impossible to prove that Yahweh does not exist
that any attempt to do so is naive, pointless, ridiculous, or theologically immature. According
to the case against realism, all such objections are either invalid, irrelevant, or both. As such,
they amount to little more than a masked apologetic attempt to repress the devastating and far-reaching
ontological implications of admitting to the all-too-human nature of Old Testament religious
language. In some of the argument from metatextual history, no one can or has ever believed in
Yahweh as depicted despite the conceptual historical links between Old Testament and later
biblically related forms of theism, the domino effect of the collapse of realism in Old Testament theology.
With the seven arguments in this case, I am claiming that anti-realism is the only
possibility left in Old Testament theology. Moreover, the implications of the collapse
of realism with regard to the ontological status of Yahweh as depicted in the text may be more
far-reaching than many in the know would like others to believe. If realism has collapsed with regard
to the ontological status of Yahweh as depicted in the text, there may be a domino effect. The
result of this may be devastating for any other theology, somehow related or dependent on realism
in Old Testament theology. In other words, the collapse of realism in Old Testament theology
can lead to the justification of full-blown atheism. Despite the problems attached to speaking of
the God of X, where X is the Old Testament, the New Testament, Christianity, or philosophy,
additional nuance is assumed in the following line of reasoning that refuses to bracket biblical
theology with the either history or philosophy of religion. Yahweh as depicted does not exist.
It has been shown via the reconstructed case against realism that Yahweh as he is depicted
in many Old Testament texts is demonstrably a character of fiction. Therefore, one may conclude
that Yahweh as depicted in these texts does not exist. Therefore, Yahweh per se does not exist.
Some may wonder whether it might not be possible to claim that the God Yahweh as such could still
exist because technically all that the arguments in the case against realism have proved is that
certain but not all of the depictions of Yahweh in the text may be fictitious. Moreover, the reader
might recall that it was admitted that I was only able to concern myself with the collapse of realism
concerning most but not every single one of the depictions of Yahweh in the text. It is practically
impossible to discuss all the issues and invalidate every form of realism with regard to every single
verse in the Old Testament. However, things are not that simple and realism cannot hope to remain
immune on such a technicality. In fact, it was neither necessary nor possible to refute realism
with regard to every single verse in the Old Testament before it could be confidently claimed
that realism pertaining to the whole has collapsed. With realism collapses, when realism collapses
in so many foundational depictions and in so many ways, whatever texts were not explicitly referred
to can hardly be considered as remaining untouched given the collapse of realism with regard to all
the surrounding discourse. Therefore, the God of the Old Testament does not exist. The body of text
that was the object of scrutiny for the case was the discourse in the biblical literature
that Christians refer to as the Old Testament. This is an ideological designation not derived
from the texts themselves and assumes the New Testament juxtaposed to the Old. But if Yahweh
has depicted and also Yahweh per se does not exist, then ipso facto the God of the Old Testament is
obviously a character of fiction. If Yahweh does not exist, then the God of the Old Testament cannot
be real either. Therefore, the God of the New Testament does not exist. As was noted in the
previous paragraph, the Old Testament forms part of the Christian canon that includes the New
Testament. Moreover, a lot of research exists by which all of the arguments in the case against
realism in Old Testament theology can be constructed to show what is problematic with realism in New
Testament theology as well. Theological pluralism, unorthodox theology, polymorphic projection,
mythology and syncretism, fictitious cosmography, fictitious history, metatextual history. Though
possible, such a collapse of realism in New Testament theology is not necessary to prove
that the collapse of realism in Old Testament theology may have pan atheist implications.
In all their attempts to show that the Jewish scriptures support their interpretation of messianic
prophecy and theological argumentation, the New Testament authors frequently quoted or alluded
to the Old Testament text. From the way the Old Testament is utilized in the new,
hermeneutically questionable though it may be, it is clear that the God they claim to believe in
was the same God witnessed to in the Hebrew scriptures and the Septuagint. It is a relatively
unproblematic assumption that the God of Jesus, Paul and all other New Testament believers was
believed to be none other than Yahweh himself, even if Yahweh as depicted were by implication no
longer believable. The devastating and far-reaching implications of the case against realism in
Old Testament theology for realism in the new should therefore be very clear. If Yahweh as depicted
in the Old Testament does not exist and Yahweh per se and therefore the God of the Old Testament
is not real, it follows logically that the God of the New Testament which is presumed to be the same
God must himself be a character of fiction. Therefore the God of the Bible does not exist.
If the God of the Old Testament and therefore the God of the New Testament does not exist,
it follows that the God of the Bible cannot be real. Even though throughout this study,
it has been implied that popular concepts like the God of the Bible or the biblical view of God
are endlessly problematic. This only confirms the pan atheist consequences of the case against
realism. If Yahweh as depicted does not exist and therefore both the God of the Old and New
Testaments are fictitious entities, realism in a pan biblical theology is also invalidated.
Therefore the God of Christian systematic theology does not exist. Christian theology can hardly be
considered as being Christian in any meaningful sense if there are no illusions whatsoever to
or dependence on any of the biblical materials, motifs, and imagery. Though there are a myriad
of different Christian conceptions of God, few if any of them would deny that the God they worship
is none other than the God Yahweh. Whatever critical theologians may claim about how Christian
theology can survive without the veracity of the Bible, it should now be clear that this way of
looking at things involves strategies of evasion and repression. If realism in the primary epistemological
sources, the Old and New Testaments collapses, what justification remains for believing that a
God identified with the God of the Bible exists at all? Isn't it a bit like claiming that
Homeric mythology does not need Homer's myths and that one can still believe in the existence of
the Homeric Zeus? Even if the deity is depicted in the sacred text is obviously a human literary
construct with no extra textual counterpart. You can if you want, but personally for me,
it's not quite the same. Since Christian theology assumes the reality of the God whom the Bible
supposedly witnessed to, if realism in the biblical theology collapses, so does realism in any other
theology in any way rooted in, related to, or dependent on it. If realism pertaining to the
biblical theology collapses and Yahweh does not exist, all the versions of a God constructed by
theologians throughout the history of dogmatic or systematic theology are themselves fictitious
and must be considered as being products of creative and reconstructive mythology.
Again, there is nothing stopping scholars from doing this, especially seeing as we have been
making it up over centuries anyway. But knowing one is doing it makes it difficult to take one's
self quite as serious as was possible when others were doing it and one was not aware of how the
trick was done. Therefore, the God of Christian philosophy of religion does not exist. As noted
before, if Yahweh does not exist, then any sort of theism that is any way whatsoever linked to,
rooted in, derived from, and depended on realism of any part of the Old Testament text whatsoever
is repressing its anti-realist status. That is why the collapse of realism in biblical
theism leads inevitably to the collapse of realism in philosophical theism since the
latter is indisputably in many ways rooted in and related to the depictions of Yahweh in the
biblical discourse. The problem here is twofold. Philosophers of the Christian religion either
tend to bracket the history of religion and the problems of biblical theology. Alternatively,
even when taking notice of the collapse of realism with regard to the Old Testament's
depiction of Yahweh, they fail to understand its ontological implications. This allows them to
repress the fact that the God they are reconstructing and whose existence they attempt to prove is
supposed to be none other than the unreal Yahweh himself. If Yahweh does not exist, how can any
updating of his alleged profile make the deity any more real? Even should philosophers of the
Christian religion succeed in proving that some God might exist, what use would it be if the deity
couldn't be equated with Yahweh of old? Is not proving the existence of a deity with a nature
and attributes different from that of Yahweh as depicted in the text tantamount to an indirect
disproof and veiled admission that Yahweh as depicted must himself be unreal? Why bother
retaining the concept God or the label Christian for one's theology if the new view of ultimate
reality is not derived from traditional sources and as little if anything in common with earlier
ideologies of biblical theology? Whether it concerns the ontological argument, the cosmological
argument, the argument from design, the teleological argument, the argument from morality, the argument
from religious experience, Pascal's wager or whatever other theistic argument constructed to
prove that God exists since the profiles of the deity assumed by those who put forward these
arguments are usually at odds with many of the depictions of Yahweh in the text claiming that
God exists seems indeed to be tantamount to insinuating that Yahweh does not but if Yahweh
does not exist how can God who from a Christian perspective is supposed to be none other than
Yahweh himself all the popular philosophical theistic arguments if they pertain to the Christian
God must repress the problems noted in the seven arguments reconstructed in the case against realism
the individual arguments in the case against realism undercut all the traditional theistic
proofs since the arguments destroy the foundations the roots and heart of all biblically based or
derived forms of theism they are much more effective than any other popular contemporary
arguments against the existence of God thus as Nietzsche wrote in another context on historical
refutation as the definitive refutation in former times one sought to prove that there is no God
today one indicates how the belief that there is a God could arise and how this belief acquired its
weight and importance a counterproof that there is no God thereby becomes superfluous when in
former times one had refuted the proofs of the existence of God put forward there always remain
the doubt whether better proofs might not be adduced than those just refuted in those days
atheists did not know how to make a clean sweep Frederick Nietzsche daybreak book one of fourism
95 verdict if you've made it this far you're a serious trooper and i hope you can understand
the complexity and how much more could be drawn out by examining these all too human aspects and
the mirroring of the human author of the deity at the time they wrote just so happens to look
just like their ideas God's knowledge his courtroom everything he did in so many ways is only pertinent
to their understanding of the day meaning there's an expiration date a timestamp on that deity very
interesting observations by dr. Yako Garica and you can go read the paper for a more exhaustive
takedown but pretty much this documentary covered the gist of what he is arguing look up all the
sources for yourself i ask as an ex-christian who's clearly persuaded that the arguments he made here
are solid and so many critical scholars recognize what he's saying just not drawing openly or
publicly those ontological conclusions that Yahweh therefore God as understood as Yahweh
does not exist i want to make one point in my observation is even though Yahweh does not exist
i'm not or i don't think Yako is suggesting that the authors did not believe that some superstitious
being called Yahweh exists in their minds it is a figment of imagination and therefore fictitious
but in the literary sense it's clearly fictitious so just like they had superstitions
about death and Leviathan and Yahweh and other such things they're fictional elements that show up
in iconography we can discover through archaeology in the textual data and such of these beliefs
this god is a literary work that is only the imagination of its authors and those who may
believe like the authors very very important documentary taking down and what are the implications
for the christian religion when Jesus is technically the continuity and fulfillment of all of this
stuff that we read in the old testament when the god itself doesn't exist what do we make of
resurrection what do we make about raising the dead or walking on water and all the miraculous
and apocalyptic claims what do we do if we applied the same exhaustive method he did here with all
the new testament scholars we have brought on myth vision showing the apocalyptic failure of Jesus
the discontinuity between authors and continuity how they used earlier books gospels and then
reconstructed narratives they took liberty on recrafting the stories of the resurrection with
Jesus or making claims that Jesus said different things that oppose the other gospels there's
so many elements we can highlight to show why this did not happen and it's far from believable to think
this is true and that we should believe these things that the apologist want to sell us the whole
package is a very very used car a very very used car that is built of so many different
components that really don't fit and that image of that car would be a very ugly car if you really
take it in instead they want to paint this picture picture that is so foreign from the text itself
we want to get back to what the original said and while we are showing that Yahweh doesn't exist
i still find interest in learning about these ancient religions in an anthropological almost
like an artistic way of looking at what they believed in why i haven't lost interest in that
and i hope you haven't either please help support us the work that we're doing is very difficult
and it's time consuming and it requires help if you like what we're doing you want to hear a lot
more of this kind of stuff you want to see deep dives into the mythology that built the bible
mythologies that predate the bible that built those civilizations and their stories
we plan on doing all of this and tackling various stuff over time you can help us one time donations
are in the description joining our patreon and becoming part of the family joining the youtube
membership program and becoming part of the family subscribe to this youtube channel like
the video share this content comment your thoughts down below all of these things help us to keep
bringing you cutting-edge critical thinking and scholarship i hope you enjoyed
yako's work and i hope you enjoyed the visuals and the work we're producing here at myth vision
please join us and never forget we are myth vision
