Ladies and gentlemen, I'm the host of myth vision podcast Derek Lambert a couple days ago and even still I'm going through a lot
I am really going through a lot
So I'll try to make this brief and I hope that you will
sympathize with me
Because this is an easy
You know number one my friend overdosed and died
But number two I watched the video that was done with dr. Bob and Doug on pine Creek
And I was hoping that when he went out there would just prove all the points that you know
everybody lay off his back and
But it was worse than I thought and I don't agree with Bob
I don't and no matter how often he might say to himself these ideas are this and everyone else is seeing it
They're they're bad. There's some bad ideas that are being floated around in what Bob is saying
And the screenshots the images we've disagreed. I've told him that I love him though. I still love dr. Bob
but I
Honestly can't platform that I really cannot get behind it and platform that on myth vision. I
Hope that you won't hate me for this
But I've also had non-stop people who are telling me that I'm a bigot and that I'm this and that when I'm not
I don't even believe like that. That is not me. That's never been me
And I don't want I don't want anyone to feel the way I feel right now
So
I'm making this because it hurts
But I'm nipping it in the butt because I'm gonna keep moving forward. I
Have so many academics that I'm working with right now and I'm trying to push forward
And I just want to be able to take care of my family and do the right thing, you know
So
Just uh, you know
It's not easy I
Really wish that things weren't this way
But I also can't go to bed at night and feel like I'm doing the right thing completely
With this going on
So I'm I didn't know what I know now, right more so and where people stand and stuff
but um, I
Hope that those who support me will continue to do so and not give up on me
Because I'm gonna keep educating you and there's so many videos if you love Dr. Bob that are on my patreon
But from this point forward, I can't I just can't do it. I
Really can't
So I hope you won't hate me for that
