Dennis R. McDonald shows in his work how the the Gospel of Luke, the book of Acts is fiction. It is
imitating earlier material. Specifically in this episode, he's going to show you literary dependence
on Euripides Bacchai. We're talking four, five hundred, almost six hundred years before the book
of Acts was even written, especially since many of the academics on my channel are willing to go
and say this is most likely early second century, sometime second century book. This is not early
eyewitness actual companion of Paul. That is what the literalist, fundamentalist Christians
are typically peddling. And in this episode, you're going to see things from the prison break to
the women in the wilderness, the singing that's going on with the mine ads. There's even direct
quotes in the book of Acts from Euripides Bacchai. Dennis has shown Homer's Iliad, the Odyssey, etc.
Sign up for the course. I edited my life away on Dennis's course showing the Greek imitation,
how the Gospels are using the older Greek sources in imitating it to model their narratives
for their Jesus. The same goes on with the book of Acts, which is going to do the same thing for
Paul and for Peter. And of course, Jesus, this is fiction, novel fiction, fan fiction.
It's just not literal history. So let's get over it.
Dr. McDonald, always a pleasure to learn and hang out with you and pick our minds. Welcome back.
Thank you so much. Thank you for making the trip here. And for those who are
viewers, people who get the books, you make this kind of stuff possible. So
get ready for a deep conversation. I, for the longest time, thought that Acts was a literal
narrative telling you what's really going on. But it doesn't take long after having a conversation
with you to see there's some literary creativity taking place on behalf of the author and taking
heroic figures like Paul and painting them with other heroic figures. And it's not just other
humans like Socrates, but gods themselves like Dionysus. But Paul's even better than them. So
I'm curious to see what you have to offer us and let's dive into the material as you see fit.
Thank you, Derek. And thank you, those who are watching this. I hope you get as much pleasure
out of these texts as I do. Derek and I are going to be reading from my book, Synopses of Epic
Tragedy and the Gospels. And much of what we're going to read today is from Volume Two that's
in this book. And it's called Mimetic Synchrosis or Comparison of the Acts of the Apostles. And
the comparison is going to be with characters from Greek literature, especially Homer, Euripides,
and its rivalry with the Aeneid. But today, we're also going to talk about imitations of Plato.
This second volume of the book is organized in four parts. One, Luke's Iliad, where we have
extensive imitations of Homer's First Epic, then Luke's Odyssey. And we have some 40 episodes that
are similar in between Luke Axe and the Odyssey, then Luke's Bacchae, and then Luke's Plato or
Socrates. Sorry, Luke's Socrates. I need to introduce Euripides Bacchae to you very briefly,
because most of you probably have not read it in the last week. A Dionysus was born in Thebes,
but his mother was scandalized by the people in Thebes because she boasted that she had conceived
by Zeus, which she had, and the people denied it. And they thought that she was covering up a sexual
encounter with a mortal. And Dionysus is going to go back disguised as a mortal priest of his cult
to Thebes, and he brings with him the mineds from Lydida, that is, in Asia Minor, to Thebes,
and they are going to be the chorus of this play. When he arrives in town, he punishes the town by
driving the women into the hills to sacrifice and to worship him in madness. And in order to supply
them food in the wilderness, he produces a magical wine and water for them. Now, the king
Pentheus of Thebes is so upset by this that he wants to round up these women and punish them,
and especially he wants to get rid of this Dionysian priest and kill him. And of course,
it's Dionysus himself in disguise. There's a prison break of the mineds, the women in the
who have been captured in the wild. But there's also a prison break of Dionysus himself after
an encounter. There are two books in the New Testament that extensively imitate Euripides
Bacchai. These are not historical stories. They are mythological stories that are applied
to Jesus or to Paul in more positive ways. So the gospel of John, I call a Dionysian gospel
because Jesus' first miracle is turning water into wine. He offers water to the mineds who
were out in the wild. But Paul also, actually the Acts of the Apostles was written before the
Gospel of John. Most people don't know that. And the author of the Gospel of John probably knows
the Acts of the Apostles. And instead of having Paul being the Dionysian character, it's Jesus
himself who's the Dionysian character. But I'm going to read the prison break of Dionysus
in the Bacchai. And Derek is going to help me with the reading, especially of the biblical text.
And we're going to compare them. Now, the fascinating piece for me is that this occurs at
the end of chapter 16 in the Acts of the Apostles. And the very next chapter has Paul in Athens
playing the role of Socrates. So in the first story, we find Paul as the beneficiary of
mythological madness. In the very next story, he's an exemplar of philosophical sophistication.
So you have both madness and philosophy. And Friedrich Nietzsche was famous for talking about
the Dionysian and the Apollonian, that is the philosophical. And Paul embodies both the beneficiary
of divine intervention, but also the wisdom of a philosopher. It's really a fascinating juxtaposition.
So we're reading from page 447 in what I call Luke's Bacchai, number 11, More Prison Breaks.
Pentheus, that is the king of Thebes, scandalized by the barbaric practices of the mined
eds, imprisoned the god who's disguised as a priest. I hear of a new evil in the city.
Our women abandon their homes in fake Bacchic ecstasy, scurry about in the wooded hills,
and honor and dances some new demon, Dionysus, whoever he is. Those whom I have seized with
their hands bound by servants hold safely in the public jail. But though still on the loose,
I will hunt from the hills. By securing them in iron nets, I will soon put a stop to this
pernicious Bacchic activity. They say that some stranger has come, a beguiling wizard from the
land of Lydia. Pentheus later succeeds in arresting the wizard and locked him up. Compare this with
the following episode in Acts that Derek will read. When her master saw that their hope for gain
had vanished, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the Agora before the rulers.
Once they presented them before the magistrates, they said, these people are disturbing our city,
they are Jews, and are promoting customs that are inappropriate for those of us who are Romans to
accept or perform. Pentheus similarly objects that the worship of the mined eds was difficult for
Greeks to accept. Already like fire, the insolence of the Bacchus is near,
a huge failing in the eyes of Greeks. We must not delay, we will go to war with the Bacchus.
Now Derek is going to go back to Acts. The crowd added their objections and the magistrates tore
off their clothes and commanded them to be flogged. They laid many blows on them and tossed them into
a prison with orders to the Jeller to hold them securely. Having received such instructions,
he threw them into the innermost part of the prison and secured their feet and socks.
Before I forget it, I want to talk about a little of the backstory in the Acts of the Apostles.
When Paul gets to Macedonia for the first time, he encounters a woman named Lydia.
She's worshiping in the wild with other women, only women. Her name, and she's a merchant of
purple, a garments. Purple is of course the color that is sacred to Dionysus because
he's the god of wine. And the name Lydia, oh she's from Thyatira, which is in Lydia.
So it's Lydia from Lydia. The Chorus in the Bacchae are the Lydian women. They're the women that
came from Lydia and it's only women that are in the Chorus. Just a tease. So the name, there's a
name match and there's also a clothing match. And the idea is pretty common. I mean purple,
who hasn't bought grapes before, right? Like you know grapes come out, not saying they aren't green
grapes, but typically you see like a red purplish wine. And that was probably commonplace. Anywho.
Well, you have a geographical reference too. These women come from Lydia. They're called the Lydian
women. And Lydia is Lydia from Lydia. You know, Lydia from Lydia. So this is a flag that Luke is
giving to his readers that Luke, that Paul is going to be a new Dionysus.
And real quick, just a tease. I'm glad you're commenting on this. And for those who are watching
and enjoying the trip, we would not know this. We weren't raised to know the Bacchae. We aren't
raised to know the stories of Odysseus, the Odyssey, the Iliad. And that's the sad part. I wish we
were, but because of that, this doesn't jump out at us. And I imagine the New Testament scholars
is the same problem. But continue, Dennis. As Euripides tells the story, outside Dionysus's
prison, the chorus of Lydian women sang for their master's release. From within the prison, the
God sang his ritual chance to his mineheads and shook Penteas' palace. Later, his song produced
an earthquake. Shake the surface of the ground. Oh, Lady Earthquake, he shouts out. After his
escape, he tells the chorus, Bacchae came and shook the house. One reads this in Acts, Derek, at midnight.
At midnight, Paul and Silas were singing Psalms and praying to God. And the other prisoners
were listening to them. Suddenly, there was a great earthquake, such that the foundations
of the prison were shaken. The doors immediately flew open, and the restraints all fell off.
So this is what Dionysus then says in the Bacchae. Thinking that I had fled, the king grabbed his
dark sword and entered the building. The weapon, though, did no harm because the God had morphed
into a phantom. The king, quote, dropped his sword in exhaustion, for though he was a man,
he dared to go to war with a God. Similarly in Acts, Derek.
The prison guard woke and saw the doors of the prison wide open. So he drew his sword,
intending to commit suicide. Because he presumed that the prisoners had escaped. Paul shouted with
a loud voice, Don't hurt yourself. We are all here. Similarly, Dionysus told Penteas, We will
wait for you. We will not flee. The same word that is used in Acts. Both Euripides and Luke
emphasize the darkness of the prison. In the play, Penteas's burning palace provides illumination.
So Derek and I are going to read these parallels. Light came from Penteas's burning palace.
Barbarian women demfounded by fear. Have you fallen to the ground? It would appear that you
observed Bacchae shaking the house of Penteas. Having asked for a light, the jailer burst inside
in a panic. Fell before Paul and Silas, brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved?
Raise your bodies and take courage, O women, and dispel fear from your flesh.
They said, Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you and your house will be saved.
So Penteas fights his fight with God. And the Philippi, but the Philippian jailer converts
quite a contrast. So Derek, pick it up there. They were speaking.
They were speaking the word of the Lord to him and to everyone in his house. At the same hour of the
night, he took them in and washed their wounds. He himself and all those of his household were
baptized at once. He brought them to his house, set a table, and rejoiced with everyone in his house,
because he had believed in God. Luke's emphasis on the joy of the jailer's household contrasts with
the agony of Penteas's mother Agave and grandfather Cadmus, another synchrosis. Unfortunately, the
ending of Euripides' play has not survived intact. In what does, Dionysus appears deus ex machina,
that is from the machinery of the ischini, rebukes the thebes for its disbelief and predicts punishments
for Cadmus and Agave. That is, Agave is Dionysus' mother, Cadmus is his grandfather. Penteas is
mother of grandfather. Cadmus asks for mercy, admitting we have act unjustly. This is what we
find in acts, Derek. At daybreak, the magistrates sent the lictors and told them, release those men,
the jailer told these words to Paul. The magistrates sent to have you released. So now,
leave and go in peace. But Paul said to them, they beat us in public without a trial,
even though we are Roman citizens and threw us into prison. But now they are throwing us out of
the sly? Certainly not. Let them come and escort us out themselves. The lictors reported these
words to the magistrates who feared when they heard that they were Romans. So they came,
called for them, escorted them out and asked them to lead the city. The masters of the
prophesying slave girl had pressed charges through avarice. Paul and Silas thus appealed to Roman
law for protection from rogue local officials. The reader would rightly deduce that although
Christians occasionally suffered injustice from Roman authorities, they could expect justice from
the empire as a whole. Furthermore, Paul and Silas demonstrate that one can be both a Christian and
a law abiding Roman citizen. Derek and I are going to read these remarkable parallels. And I need to
give credit to the history of scholarship in my field. Many scholars have seen these parallels.
And in fact, when Paul talks about his own conversion, he says he has a heavenly,
here's a heavenly voice. It is hard for you to kick against the goads. That is quoted in the Acts
of the Apostles. That's a quotation from the Bacchai where Dionysus in disguise tells Penteas,
it is hard to kick against the goads. You should not fight, a mortal should not fight against a
deity. And the words that are used there are the same words that are used in Acts for fighting a
God, the Theomachia. So these parallels have been recognized by others. Although I expand them,
and I think I have a somewhat better translation. So here we go, Derek. Dionysus arrived in Thebes
with the female entourage from Lydia Asia Minor. Intent on establishing his cult, that is his worship
in Achaia, the Lydian women comprise the Chorus. Paul arrived in Philippi with an entourage from
Troas. Asia Minor intent on establishing the Cult of Christ in Macedonia. Philippi was his first
European destination. The God drove Theban women into the hills to worship. The Apostle converted
Lydia who was praying outside the city with other women. Minas possessed the gift of prophecy
and hailed the new God. In Escalus, in the humanities, the Pitho, that is the female
goddess, invokes Zeus Most High. A possessed Pythian, prophesying slave girl identified Paul
and Silas as slaves of the Most High God. Dionysus struck women mad. Paul drove the demon out of
her, a synchrosis. Penteas accused the God of introducing religion's practices alien to Greeks
and locked him in a dark prison without trial. He thought that he chained his feet, but actually
he changed those of a bull. The owners of the slave girl accused Paul and Silas of introducing
religious practices alien to Romans. Then the authorities locked them up without trial and
changed their feet in stocks in a dark prison. Dionysus sang in his prison and caused an earthquake
that freed them. Paul and Silas sang praises in prison until the earthquake freed them.
Thinking Dionysus might escape, Penteas drew his sword to slay him.
Thinking the prisoners had escaped, the Jeller drew his sword to slay himself.
Instead of fleeing, Dionysus waited for Penteas to emerge from the prison and tried to talk sense
into him. Instead of fleeing, Paul, Silas, and the other prisoners waited in the prison and Paul
talked the Jeller out of suicide. Light came from a burning palace. The mine adds fell to the ground
in fear of the earthquake and fire. The Jeller asked for light, was terrified, and fell at the feet of
Paul and Silas. Penteas dropped his sword when he failed to inflict harm. The Jeller sheathed
his sword when he learned that no prisoner had fled. Because Penteas remained silent,
his mother and sisters killed him. Later his family grieved. After the Jeller converted,
Paul baptized him with his household. They rejoiced. Now some of these parallels are weaker than others.
I grant you that. And so you could get rid of, you know, five or six of the parallels because
they may seem forced to you. You cannot deny that there's a literary connection between these
because of the vocabulary, because of the Greek words that are used, and Derek and I did not
read the Greek just for purposes of this broadcast. But Derek, what do you think?
I think there's some common tropes. As I told you yesterday, while I may not know Greek,
I can see patterns, themes, things like that, that jump out at me. Obviously the singing,
the jail, like, how common is it? This is a question, right, of statistics. Who cares if
you can read the language for a moment. How common are jail breaks with earthquakes from singing?
I mean, it's a serious question. How common do Lydias from Lydia dressed in purple and literally
sound and act like a mine ad with other women? You know, how common are these kinds of things?
And if they're not that common, then it should at least be considered. Hold on, what's going on?
And look at, and so I definitely think that this is something that I've seen come up a lot,
and we both recognize there are differences here. In fact, synchrocyst as you point out in the
parallels, jump out too, right? You're like, hold on, this guy wanted to kill the Dionysus guy.
And in this narrative, he wanted to kill himself because in this painted narrative,
well, he's going to get killed or something, he's disappointed because now he didn't do his job and
made sure these prisoners stayed in prison. So they just a little bit of narrative tweaks to fit
the context. And that shows you the sophistication on the author's part that he's able to change the
narrative enough to fit his context of what he's saying. That's why I was saying in our course,
sneak peek to those who haven't got our course that they need to get, and this book, when we're
talking about stuff like the sailors and the boats and Jesus with many boats, many ships
sell across the Sea of Galilee, these are, to me, the author didn't change enough.
And those are tall tell signs for me to go, ah, we know where this, this is a hint to help us
connect us to the Odyssey or whatever. So Lukak seems to be a little better at making sure that
he's retweaking the narrative, but the theme's there. It's undeniable. I think even in Mark,
the business about other boats is carelessness. I think it's an intentional flag to the reader.
This is comparative mythology. And so, but I want to do a little trick with you right now.
Mimesis criticism has seven criteria, and we haven't, we've done, we've applied this in the
course to Homer, but now I'm going to reapply it to the Bacchai. So let's keep the microphone
equidistant between us and we'll be, we'll be loud. And this is going to be mostly a question
and answer. I mean, or I'll give the, I'll give a question and you just give a simple answer,
but you can expand it if you want to. Was the Bacchai available in the world of Lukaks?
Yes. Definitely. Not just as a text, but also as a performance. Was it imitated widely?
Yes. And there were lots of plays happening all over the place.
And we know that it was imitated by Jews, by Christians, by pagans. And there are,
there's no doubt about that. So it's in the air and it's a story of religion and religious
persecution. So it's a perfect target for Jews and Christians. So there's no doubt about that.
Now, were the parallels that we looked at dense and sequential and distinctive?
Yes, I would say yes. Oh, amazing. And so much so that many scholars have seen these connections,
especially in Acts, you have a quotation from the Bacchai, hard for you to kick against the votes.
Now, why might an author, this is the interpretability criterion, why might an author want to rewrite
the story of the Bacchai to portray Jesus as a Dionysus?
Well, I mean, if you're going, this is my answer. If you're going to change people,
if you, if your target audience is, is a mission to a world where their medium is the Bacchai,
did the best way to do it is to turn their story against themselves. So if I'm going to
infiltrate somewhere in China, and I want to convince people in China, and they have a certain
thing called, I don't know, some specific thing, okay, I'm going to adopt that thing and then flip
it if I want to get them on my side, you use the medium people are aware of and using. This is why
you don't find Paul come in and I don't know where you use some Indian terminology. He's not
dealing with Indians. He's dealing with people in the Greco-Roman world. So it's more of a
practical thing. You turn what the people know so that they're familiar with it.
And the way it gets turned is in the end, Penteas is going to get killed. The jailer in
Philippi is saved. He and his whole family. So the Paul is more compassionate
in his prison escape than Dionysus is. So that's a major synchrosis. Now, did I have other people
in antiquity recognize these parallels? I think the author of the Gospel of John must have,
because Jesus himself is playing a Dionysian role and a pilot plays the role of Penteas to some
extent and so does the Sanhedrin. So I don't know how we're doing on time. We're going to now move
from chapter 16 of the Acts of the Apostles to the very next chapter where Paul is no longer
representing the God of madness and wine and frivolity and all that. Now it's going to be
a philosopher. So we went from madness and now we're going to sanity, but you're going to have
to stay tuned to the next episode for that one. And it was astonishing what I saw.
Jesus sails the sea with a crew that is his disciples that are not nearly as noble as he is,
like Odysseus. Like Odysseus, Jesus keeps his identity a secret so his enemies can't kill him.
The Jewish authorities play the role of Penelope suitors. They love the best seats
in synagogues and they're willing to kill in order to win the inheritance. Judas plays the role
of Melantheus, Jesus's turncoats slave. Jesus has his feet anointed by a woman, like Odysseus,
having his feet anointed by his nurse Eurychlea and she recognizes him from his scar and the name
Eurychlea means renowned far and wide and it said of this woman who anoints Jesus that wherever
the gospel is proclaimed it'll be in her memory. So these parallels were so striking that I dared
not give a new lecture on it because it hadn't been digested. And so I spent another summer
working through the gospel of Mark creating criteria that where I might be able to make a
claim that there's a literary connection and at point after point after point it became
clear that Mark was imitating not just the Odyssey but also the Iliad and also some
Tragedian plays and I translated Homer and Euripides and Plato for myself in order to compare
the Greek of the the gospel of Mark with the Greek of these stories and it was unbelievable what I
was finding. I also turned to a study of Greek rhetoric and understood better how literary
imitation or mimesis worked and it was that people were taught how to write by imitating
recognized models and to compare heroes in an activity called synchrosis. Synchrosis is simply
a comparison to show that one character is similar but better than another and of course
that's what's going on in Mark. Jesus is like Odysseus but he's better than Odysseus. He's
like Hector in his death but he's he comes back to life so that's a synchrosis and it goes on and on.
