Ladies and gentlemen, I have done some serious soul searching and in just the past few days,
while I was walking down the street exercising, thinking about all the things that I do here
at MythVision and being very critical of this book, we call the Bible and the faith, we
call Christianity and of course other faiths as well, something inside me just broke and
I realized after the seven thousandth time reading my New Testament that there's just
no way that we can really explain away what Paul's describing about with the resurrection
and that it was ad hoc to come up with any other explanation other than Jesus actually
rose from the dead.
You heard that right.
It was simply reading this very old book written by multiple people and oftentimes anonymous
authors that drove me to an undeniable conclusion, Derek, you just want to sin.
You just, you're just in denial.
You're suppressing the truth and unrighteousness and in fact, you know Jesus rose from the
dead and that there are no other explanations that even adequately explain why these early
voices were saying Jesus rose from the dead.
In fact, the list that we see in 1 Corinthians 15, yeah, may have been just visionary experiences
if you take this as historical and non-legendary according to Richard C. Miller and even if
that were the case, you know, these visions, right, these people really thought that they
saw something.
So Derek, you used to think, you know, maybe they were mistaken or maybe they really were
thinking they saw something kind of like Fatima or other types of scenarios.
No, no, no, Derek, you just want to sin.
Just accept what's being said there.
I mean, let's keep it real, right?
Paul tells us I do not lie.
I tell you the truth.
Whoever would say something like that and not be telling you the truth.
I mean, how often do people say I'm not lying and they're actually lying?
That never happens.
So this led me down this path of recognizing that it's undeniable.
This 2000 year old text with its material in the New Testament that I've been trying
to pick apart, really, what am I doing?
So I buckled.
I became a Christian.
I recognized that my baptism from the past, from both the sprinkling of the Presbyterians
and the immersion that I got from the Baptist type sex that I was in, were both valid still
and they covered my sins.
I have just been backslidden this entire time and I didn't even realize it.
In fact, I started to realize that, you know, how those Gospels, Mark, Matthew, Luke and
John often contradict each other and there are serious discrepancies among those stories.
Well, they get the gist, right?
I mean, they get enough of the gist that I really should.
I really should accept what they're saying about Jesus.
Forget the fact that they look similar in many situations to the Greco-Roman mythologies
and Sons of Zeus.
Forget the fact that there may be competitive propaganda against the Roman imperial cult
and what's going on in Rome.
That does not matter.
What matters is Jesus died and he rose again according to the Scriptures.
And that was so obvious to me.
I spent several, several hours meditating, reading the New Testament and realized it's
undeniable because it says so.
All you need to do is read this book and it tells you what happens and you should accept
it.
And I realized that after several, several hours of ad nauseam, absorption of what is
going on in this text that after a while what tends to happen is you collapse your critical
thinking skills because those are actually bad to have and the text tells you the truth.
You see, I do also recommend, this is my advice to someone who came from the hypercritical
side using all the faculties that the good Lord gave me.
Put those aside.
Stop worrying about Suetonius's portents to the births of Augustus.
Stop worrying about the birth narratives about Alexander the Great or any of the Caesars.
You really need to understand that the Gospel's message is unique.
Take that account in and of itself and recognize it's true and the others are false.
Those people are creating legend.
So my advice to you is just don't read those other people.
Forget the fact that Asclepius and Hercules and Bacchus with Dionysus, which is kind of
a modern contemporary in the first century of Osiris and Isis and such.
Forget that they suffered and had translations ascending on to the celestial plane like Jesus.
Those aren't true.
Christianity is.
So just take my advice and also understand that the only, the only plausible path on
planet Earth, the only true religion is Christianity.
And it's just dawned on me out of nowhere, like, what am I doing, Derek?
Why are you not accepting the obvious truth?
And the Christians knew all along.
They knew you just want to sin and you just don't want this to be true.
And you know, you know, it's actually true, Derek.
I mean, you can't prove it didn't happen, right?
And they were right about that.
I can't prove.
I cannot prove that it didn't happen.
So since I can't prove it didn't happen and I'm terrified of this all loving God burning
me for all eternity in hell and that will never end, I figure what's better?
You know, I might as well surrender.
I surrendered to Jesus because the loving God potentially would destroy me either in
an annihilation, eternal conscious torment, which is unbelievable on what is described
there.
Just read some of the Christian writings about this.
People who come back from visiting hell themselves, 23 hours in hell or whatever the the guy wrote
the book, right?
Like, so, so I realized that why would I want to risk it?
We might as well live for Jesus and surrender our lives to this ancient text, which is factual.
You just got to read it and really understand why would anyone be willing to die for something
they believe in?
Forget those people who crashed themselves into airplanes or kamikaze warriors from the
Japanese that did this just like early samurai people during the Mongolian Wars.
Forget that people will die for stuff they believe in, in this case the only reason that
Christians would die for the belief in Christianity is because it's true.
So stop trying to analogize or look at other examples in the world and compare that to Jesus
because nobody's like Jesus and Christianity is the only true belief.
So here I am, Derek, the one who was once an atheist telling you that Jesus is the only
way, the truth in the life and that the only path to the Father is through him, that you
should repent of your sins.
See I speak in tongues like Paul as well and I hope that you will start speaking in tongues
to your friends and teach them how legit this religion really is.
They don't believe me.
Have them read the Bible.
Have them read the Bible over and over and over until they have finally collapsed to
the message within and just said, all right, I'm done, I'm yours, Lord.
This is the whole message today and I hope that you'll follow suit.
This is not an April Fool's joke because I'm specifically choosing this day to present
this message to you.
This is historical.
This is factual.
This is not April Fool's.
Jesus is Lord, okay?
Never forget that.
And if I blink twice, I'm telling you April Fool's.
