We are MythVision, home of MythVision podcast
and MythVision radio.
My co-host is Derek Lambert.
I'm Dr. Luther G. Williams,
and we're open to this experience of being alive today.
We've got a presence on Facebook and YouTube.
So we're where you are and you're where we are
and do enjoy today's show, will you?
Let it wash over you and bring a smile to you.
But first, Derek has got some important information
to share, Derek.
It's a beautiful day.
In January, we're about to head into February,
ladies and gentlemen, and that means the seasons
are on an action, if you will.
So there are some coming attractions
on MythVision podcast.
We have author and activist, David Fitzgerald,
who'll be on our next week.
It's kind of crazy how one week we have
the esoteric, mythicist approach,
and the next week you've got the atheistic
mythicist approach, so quite interesting.
Some of our listeners will know
from his explosive Jesus, mything and action series.
We'll talk to David about that work and much more.
You don't wanna miss this very special MythVision.
There's a lot more planned for you,
including a newsletter with information
on upcoming shows, guests, updates on past guests,
profiles of explorers, researchers,
scientists, scholars, mystics, historians,
and of course your input in engaging our guests.
So come check us out on Facebook
at the MythVision podcast group, as well as the page.
And be sure to look for me or Luther.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel.
It really helps us like it, hit the bell,
and plug this thing out there.
A lot of this information is valuable and golden.
Luther has a Patreon account as well.
He's been putting out a lot of material.
So look, if you guys like this platform,
simply put, we're bringing you the best we know of
in the world today at this moment, guests.
And I really, really just wanna say anything helps
to help us get this thing going,
because it's really self-supporting.
Me and Luther are keeping this platform going,
and if you think you like this and you wanna help, cool.
If not, this is there for you to entertain yourself
and to educate yourself further.
Luther, I can't wait, please get this guest going, please.
It's a great time for a quantum leap, Derek.
An energetic response that takes you to a new level,
a higher level, no in-between state, you're just there.
And that's where we are with today's guest, Timothy Freak.
Tim Freak, as he is known by all of his fans worldwide,
is a pioneering philosopher whose best-selling books,
inspirational talks, life-changing retreats,
and transformative training programs
have touched the hearts and minds of literally hundreds
of thousands of people worldwide.
He's the author of some 35 books translated
into more than 15 languages,
including The Jesus Mysteries,
which was a top six Amazon best-seller
and Daily Telegraph Book of the Year.
We'll be talking about that book extensively today with him.
And in his two most recent books,
Deep Awake and Soul Story,
Tim offers a revolutionary approach to awakening
for the 21st century and a visionary new understanding
of the nature of reality.
He's a keynote speaker at major conferences
and is regularly featured in the media internationally,
as well as on websites such as Ken Wilber's Integral Naked.
He has appeared in the History Channel documentary
Beyond the Da Vinci Code,
and many of us have seen his face.
So when you see Tim, you'll say,
wow, I've seen that guy somewhere before.
And it could very well be from that documentary.
He's also done several other programs about that work,
and he's now completely fed up
with talking about that damn book.
He told me to say that, folks, that's not me.
That's his publicist.
Tim runs seminars in the United States, Europe,
South Africa, exploring the experience of gnosis.
Tim, welcome to MythVision Podcast.
It's a delight to be here.
Thank you for inviting me.
Oh, man, we're glad to have you.
You know, it's hard to believe
that this is the 20th anniversary of the Jesus Mysteries.
I know.
Yeah, you know, unbelievable.
It is.
And many people think or say
that Christianity came out of the closet with your book.
We love it.
I love it personally.
Think back to the release of that book.
How was it received in general,
and particularly by the Orthodox community
of 20 years ago?
Well, it was an exciting time, Luther,
because the book was received very well.
I mean, you read out in the blurb about me
that we got to number six on Amazon,
the main list, which was quite something.
I mean, that was like, wow, how did that happen?
And we were their surprise bestseller,
and we were actually kept out of the top 10
in the UK by Monica Lewinsky's autobiography.
So we only got to 11, but apart from that,
so it was an exciting time.
The response was really interesting.
You can imagine it was very strong in lots of directions.
So a lot of people upset.
I mean, we didn't have any death threats, I'm glad to say,
but we had an awful lot of after-death threats.
There's a little corner of hell
that's just put aside from me and Peter Gandhi,
my friend and co-author,
where we're gonna be tortured forever by a god of love,
allegedly.
That was definitely that.
In terms of the reaction from the scholarly community,
I'd have to say at the time, and pretty much ever since,
it's been a real disappointment.
I think because Peter and I were not actually,
I've never, ever since I left university,
I've never wanted to go back.
I've always wanted to be working in the freedom
that I've got.
So we're not aligned with any particular university.
So there was a feeling of outsiders,
and in theology departments in particular,
people are very, or were at that time,
especially very caught up with the vested interest, really.
The most important thing of all was,
there is a Jesus, and then we can argue about who he is.
So these two outsiders coming in and going,
hey guys, what if there isn't a Jesus?
We intended to be either dismissed or on the one hand,
or very excited.
What I was looking for was proper analysis.
Oh, I see, this is what's right, this is what's wrong,
this is what, because there's gonna be things in there,
we didn't get right, of course there is a big book.
And that level of peer review was disappointing.
I remember Peter, my co-author, going on the radio,
Radio 4, with the gentleman who became
Archbishop of Canterbury.
So it was like, great, it'll have a really good discussion.
And what he did was really interesting.
He just talked very slowly in a deep voice.
And basically when everything's fine,
there's nothing to worry about in these theories.
These theories have been around for ages,
and we needn't take them seriously.
And it was so, that was disappointing.
I expected more engagement.
But the general public, fantastic,
and the flood of emails from people going,
thank you, you've set me free from this very limiting view
of what Christianity is.
That was the greatest thing of all, wonderful.
You know, Tim, that's amazing you say that,
because me and Luther are finding more and more that,
yes, there's a place for the academic world, of course.
And there's a huge place.
I mean, you really want experts to be able
to dissect language to get into these things
and really understand a lot of this stuff.
But there's such an interpretive method that they bring
in a lot of baggage and a lot of things
that they're just limiting themselves.
And they're so focused in certain areas,
they're not borrowing or communicating with one another.
And that's kind of what me and him love doing on the show,
is kind of getting the scholars to communicate.
You expressed the hope that your book
will be a significant call for complete appraisal
of the origins of Christianity.
And has the world in some sense connected or caught up
with what you were saying in that book?
Have you seen anything in the scholarly world
in any way possibly start to delve into this
in any way, shape, or form?
Yes, definitely, I mean, if I look now at 20 years later,
to stand up and go, I think that Jesus' story as a myth
is no longer an outrageous thing to say.
In fact, most people will go, yeah, that makes sense.
At the time, it was completely outrageous.
And there was a feeling of, well, that can't be true.
There's too much evidence.
Now people realize there just really isn't evidence
of an historical man and they're able to look at the story
through new light, through new eyes and go, hang on,
it actually does sound like it's a myth, doesn't it?
Whereas they couldn't do that for some reason.
I couldn't do that.
I mean, I grew up with it.
It was a shock to me when we started working on it.
And it almost felt like we were gonna be struck down
for thinking it.
It was all very superstitious, really,
the state we were in.
So, yeah, but now, I mean, there was a Jesus Mysteries
group set up online, which was a new thing.
It became the biggest group of,
I think it was one of the groups on Yahoo,
one of those early things, and it was huge.
It attracted a lot of people and really took off.
So the number of books written on this perspective now
have just grown exponentially.
I haven't caught up with, I'm way behind
all that's been happening, and that's exciting.
That's good.
And I'm sure given another few decades,
this will really be something which we look back on
and go, well, I'm surprised that people
ever had any other perspective.
Yeah, you know, you can clue it in that book
as many authors say have done since,
that Christianity is really a perennial myth
that has the power to impart the illuminating gnosis
that transforms us into Christ.
And what I like, particularly like about the myth,
is that the mythological aspect is just sort of the cup,
but the contents is the gnosis.
So when you're talking to mythologists,
those kinds of scholars,
they'll talk about Jesus as a myth,
but they'll never talk about Gnosticism
as somehow, you know, filling up the cup.
Have you gone back to read the Bible
from that perspective or maybe some other texts?
And maybe what are some of your other
favorite non-scriptural writings in that vein?
Oh my goodness, that's really, there's so many, Luther,
but what I do feel is that what happened
with our work, as you rightly said,
what Peter and I wanted to do was go,
look, the Jesus story isn't literally history,
it's myth, and that's better.
And it's better for all sorts of reasons.
One of the obvious ways in which it's better
is because if there is a little literal Jesus,
if there was an historical man,
then people who believe that are forced to surely
realize that the picture they have in their head
is probably wrong.
Everyone's got a different Jesus.
They can't all be right.
So probably the person that they're imagining
Jesus was is not right.
He was a very different sort of person.
And so it's kind of that, they're relating to an illusion.
However, if you realize, no, the point is
that this is a mythic figure
through which you transform yourself into the Christ,
and you find the gnosis within you,
then of course it's very liberating.
So for me, the discovery of the Gnostic perspective,
this story is about me and you.
It's an allegorical myth.
That was just amazing.
And then with our second book,
Jesus and the Lost Goddess,
which was a life-changing experience for me,
was doing what the Gnostic said to do,
which was like, hang out with these myths
and they will transform you.
I went so deeply into Gnostic ecology,
man, that it was extraordinary.
And how deep it went and how much was there.
But just to hang it back
to the earlier conversation we were having,
I would say the book would have done a lot better
if we'd been atheists.
Because, or if we'd been against spirituality.
Because what was about to happen 20 years ago,
if you think back, was the explosion of the new atheists.
People coming into religion and just going,
ah, this is enough.
We need a rational scientific approach.
And that really exploded.
Where people didn't understand me and Peter
was we weren't doing one or the other.
We were in the middle going,
look, this religious literalism is disastrous.
But the essence of it, the heart of it,
is deeply profound.
And that's what made, I think,
very difficult for people to see who we were.
Wonderful.
I find that quite interesting, Tim.
And I'm going off the script here for a second,
because I think this is fascinating.
Because what you're drawing is not a conclusion
on theism, theism, atheism.
You are drawing simple principles.
And there are foundational things,
people call spiritual principles,
that are guide stones in the text
that you can experience and know them to be true.
Whether or not you think there's a guy on a cloud
somewhere pointing down,
whether you think there is no guy on a cloud altogether,
it doesn't matter.
There's something that is true about this
that you can experience.
I wanted to ask you, because astrothiology,
now I know we're jumping,
because astrothiology and synchronistic ideas,
this is syncretism, okay?
It all ties in, all of this ties in together.
And I find this so beautiful.
Like, suppose, because I get where you're going,
I know I'm rabbit-trolling here,
but I know where you're going
with the atheistic approach,
because yeah, I see that myself.
You've got famous mythicists that are atheists
that are getting a lot more limelight
than someone who's coming in and saying,
look, there might be something.
And here's some spiritual truths,
and let's delve into this thing
in a way that can apply to you.
It seems like you guys are in a gray area for them.
And the world was wanting someone to come and bash religion
and bash these books and bash,
which me and Luther don't.
We find beauty and we love these texts.
And we tell everyone, even our atheist mythicists,
the same thing on our show.
And they love us and they love us
because we love them no matter what.
So let me pass the mic to you.
If someone does not know or needs textual evidence
for astrophiology, your go-to text,
where would you take them to go ahead and show them,
here is astrophiology in the Bible?
I'm not really the person to ask about this.
I mean, I feel like it's,
I mean, I think other people have done
much better work on that.
Are, I mean, it's there.
I mean, basically, the study of the stars and astrology
is the main reference point for the whole of the ancient world.
And projecting mythological journeys on that
is the main point.
And we bring out very important things.
You know, one of the, for instance,
just as a little aside, you know,
it's very obvious, of course,
but the figure of Jesus and the 12 disciples
or Mithras and the 12 around him, it's the same,
is, you know, is the zodiac,
is the still point of where the zodiac evolves around.
That's the pole star, that's Jesus, he's the Christ,
and that's really your own center.
So you can see, ah, here's a simple motif,
which is in the New Testament as a story motif.
There's Jesus, there's his 12 disciples,
and actually it's referring to an astrological motif,
and that is actually in the sky,
which is this stillness around which
the whole of the night sky seems to be moving,
except it's not, they don't conceive of it
as the night sky as we do.
For them, and I love this,
and right back to the ancient Egyptians,
every one of us is really a star.
And I think what that means, you know,
once you get over the fact they're not saying,
we're all big balls of gas exploding in the sky,
what they're saying is from the ancient perspective,
they're going, look, they saw the night sky
as a canopy, it's Nuit, the goddess Nuit
in the ancient tradition.
So the whole of the night skies is the canopy,
and that canopy is a cave, it's Plato's cave,
it's the world of forms in which we're all being imprisoned,
and which we're all stuck.
And then each of the stars is a hole
through which you can see the light beyond,
the treasure house of light,
the realm of the mystery, the father, God.
So each one of us is a hole in the canopy of form,
and I love that because when I look at you,
and I see literally, I look in your eyes,
and literally a hole, and then through that hole,
which is form, I connect with something I can't see,
which is conscious being, looking back at me.
And that's what they're really pointing at,
they're pointing out, oh, that's what we really are.
So the whole of the Jesus myth,
actually I think is the Jenny,
right from the star at the beginning,
where this figure of Jesus comes into the cave,
Plato's cave, and right the way
to the end, where Jesus is found,
the cave is empty, because he's resurrecting.
Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho.
And they say, you know, if you think about,
they said at the time when he resurrects,
they say that the veil of the temple was ripped in two.
And the veil of the temple at the time
was a tapestry of the night sky,
it was an astrological symbol.
So the night sky is ripped in two, the veil,
knew it, the goddess form, goddess is the form,
God is the mystery from which everything arises,
and that's the fundamental polarity.
If you like, God is the dreamer of the dream of existence,
and the goddess is the dream, she's all the forms.
So we're trapped in the cave, he comes through,
he rips through, he comes out, as Paul says,
he conquers the cosmos, and he goes through
to the treasure house of light.
And that's where it's going, that's the resurrection,
and the tomb is empty.
And I love that, and it helps me understand
Plotinus, the great pagan philosopher,
near-plakeness philosopher,
who's around at the same time as the Gnostics,
he's a kind of competitor.
And when he's talking about the Gnostics,
he says, in a matter of fact way,
of course, really, like everyone else,
they're just teaching the ascent from the cave.
So for him, Christianity is the ascent from the cave.
And you look at that, and you think,
well, no one said that to me, Sunday school,
what does that mean?
And then you get, oh, that's what it means.
It's about us being incarnated into form,
and just seeing the form, and not seeing the essence,
which is invisible, it's the spirit, it's the essence,
and waking up to that.
So I think the astrology is absolutely embedded
all the way through the story,
and there's just more and more of it to discover.
Tim, let's take a question from one of our loyal listeners.
This is from Joy Taylor Ackerman of Orlando, Florida.
And she would like you to help us understand
your theory of time as a philosopher.
Her question is, she starts with this observation.
She says, in regards to Tim's theory of time
as accumulating and not passing,
but as time accumulates with each new moment,
it intersects with the potentiality of another new moment.
Is that a correct understanding?
That's what she asked, so keep that in mind first.
And so her question is, how do you see the consciousness
of God being outside of this time dimension?
And if it is so, then would our individual God consciousness
have the potential to access knowledge of the future
the way we can be certain about knowledge of the past?
Joy, thank you for your question.
Okay, Joy, that's a big question.
All right, so I think to give it some context
as we're gonna jump from my work 20 years ago
to my work today, what I've been doing
since the Jesus Mysteries is in effect,
although I don't always use this language
because it can be off-putting.
But what in effect what I've been doing
is creating a Gnosticism from the 21st century.
I've been, at a certain point, I realized
I wasn't so much interested in just writing
about what Gnostics did 2,000 years ago.
I wanted to do now what they did 2,000 years ago.
And what they did was they took the spiritual works
that they inherited and created them for their own time.
So my deep passion really is to create a new Gnosticism,
a new way of understanding what this is.
And that won't be the same as the old Gnosticism.
It needs to move on, but there will be things,
important things in it, which are the same.
And this thing that Joy's talking about
is central to my new philosophy, and it is different.
So a lot of my method, philosophically,
is to look at the moment and just see what I see.
And the more I meditate on the moment,
the more it reveals to me.
And I've done that with time.
So the basic idea, if I put it very quickly,
if I put it quickly in time,
is when I look at the moment,
what I see is a flow of appearances.
I see a flow of experiences, and that's time.
So when I hear people saying time's an illusion,
which I hear a lot, I've probably said it myself
in the past, I now don't know what that means,
because it feels to me that actually we are experiencing
time, we only have experience time.
There is no experience apart from time.
One thing follows another.
That's always the way it is.
So even to understand the sentence,
time in an illusion takes time.
You can't even understand it as an idea without time.
Time is everything is predicated
on the fact that things move through.
And for me, when I look at it,
I notice two qualities that that has.
And one is that every new moment manifests a new possibility.
Always.
There's never been two moments the same.
So it's like a new, new, new, this one's new,
this one's new.
That's the first thing I notice.
So it feels to me like, oh,
that's something about the nature of reality here.
Reality is the realization of new potentials all the time.
That's what it is.
And then I notice something about the past,
which I find fascinating,
and it may be this that she's referring to,
which is that every new moment contains within it,
implicitly, everything that's ever happened before.
This moment now, this contains you inviting me on.
It contains our previous conversation.
It contains us learning to speak English.
It contains the evolution of the human species.
It contains everything.
And without all of that,
this moment would not be this moment.
So each moment seems to me the coexistence
of the past and the possible.
And the past is not going anywhere.
It's accumulating.
The past doesn't pass.
It actually accumulates.
There's just more and more and more
of what has already been realized.
And then based on everything that's been realized,
we can realize a new possibility.
So that's the basic idea, which I find fascinating.
And I think there's a huge lot there,
of course, you'd go into,
but just very briefly in response to Joy's questions
about God and all these are big questions.
In this moment, what seems to me,
there is the stillness of my deep self,
which is timeless, which is always now,
and then there's this flow of time.
And the two coexist, that's the first thing.
But I do not think that the stillness
contains anything but presence.
It's just being, it has no other qualities.
So out of time, there is no qualities apart from being.
That's the eternal quality.
So when we come to talking about seeing the future,
this thing, time and resolution,
the future already exists,
it sounds attractive to people, I know it does.
But I have to tell you honestly, Daring Luther,
I hate that idea with a passion.
I hate it.
It's a horrible idea, the future's already happened.
So this conversation is meaningless.
It's already happened.
All our struggles in life,
all of our joys and sufferings,
all of our attempts to grow and learn
and become wise or in love, it's all irrelevant
because it's all just map day.
There's no creativity in the world.
Nothing has any meaning.
I hate that.
And I don't think it's true.
My whole experience of the depths of life
is it's full of creativity
and that you don't know what's gonna happen next
and that you play a part in what's gonna happen next
for yourself and for everyone.
It's creative.
You take the past, you can't change that
and you create a new possibility.
So that's my first thing.
And then very, very briefly with God,
which is another huge thing.
For me, one of the things I wanted to switch around,
you know, the Gnostics came in
and created a whole revolutionary new idea of God.
We lost this awful figure of Yahweh,
this ghastly tribal thunder god.
And they replaced it with something utterly revolutionary,
which was a God of love.
I mean, that's, wow, what a whole new thing that was.
And we're still trying to catch up with that,
you know, with the idea that God is love.
We can love our enemies.
Wow, what a lie about it.
You know, this is whole new stuff.
What I wanna do is push it even further
because it seems to me the problem
that atheists have with God is, and I agree with them,
is that if you take the figure of a super mind
or a great being or whatever you want it to imagine as,
and you put it at the beginning of time as the creator,
or as even as the mind that's dreaming
the existence of God, that God,
it's kind of crazy and mean, I think,
because it takes a crazy God
to create 165 million years of dinosaurs, doesn't it?
If you want to get to human souls and transcendence
and 165 million years of dinosaurs, that's insane.
It's insane.
And of course, all the classic problem of evil,
you know, all of the suffering,
all the terrible suffering which nature has predicated on.
So this God, if he's at the beginning,
he's mean and insane.
And as a good Gnostic, I wanna go up to him and go,
I want words with you.
This is a, what have you done creating this shit hole?
I'm not having it.
That was the Gnostic perspective.
What I wanna go is, but actually,
I don't think God is at the beginning of time.
I think God is not where this has come from.
I think this being of love is where it's going.
I think we're evolving towards God.
I think God, I think the universe is giving birth to God
as this being of love.
And that as we awaken, so it awakens.
And that is the very process of time,
taking us further and further
towards this transcendent conscious oneness, which is love.
Oh my goodness.
Joy, we're gonna have to talk, Joy.
You just tore me up.
I had an excellent question
and I wanna run into that.
I just wanna briefly say, I was a reformed Calvinist.
And so that predestinarian concept of absolute,
I've lived with that kind of philosophy in my mind
and it really didn't do anything.
The only satisfactory point was that I knew God won
in the end and it didn't matter what happened in between
because in the end, he wins and I'm on his team.
And so that was the only positive.
That's like the worst action movie you've ever watched.
So that was kind of, I like what you're saying
and I agree with that, totally agree with that today.
I would not have agreed with you eight years ago
and I'm thankful my eyes were open and I woke up.
Really am thankful that something happened.
I wanted to ask you something.
I'm getting off script again
because I feel like this question is extremely vital.
So many atheist mythicists and historicists
and your scholars today are arguing
over the existence of Jesus.
They're so focused on, did he exist, did he not exist?
And it seems like you have like left that box altogether
and you said, hey, look, I don't even see that as a,
why are we talking about that?
Let me exit this Jesus discussion
on whether he existed and didn't.
And my question is to you
and it might be a little bit difficult.
I don't know, I hope it's not.
Who is Paul's Jesus?
Because we know scholars, they date him early.
The gospels come later.
Who is this Paul?
Is he a Gnostic?
And who is his Jesus?
If you don't mind giving me something on that, please.
Yeah, happy to.
So yeah, I have, I have Derek.
I've kind of, I lost patience with it about 10 years ago.
It was like, I just can't go through this anymore.
And honest to goodness, it doesn't really matter to me.
You know, what, I mean, what is for sure
is the gospel, the Jesus of the gospels did not exist.
Was there someone underneath there somewhere?
I don't think so.
I don't think it's evident.
Any evidence suggests there was.
Everything about the gospels is mythic.
We've seen the story evolve, but if there was, there was.
I don't know.
Would I like him if I found him?
Maybe, I don't know.
But somebody wrote these great Gnostic tracks.
You know, whether we're talking about Simon Magus
or Basilidas or Valentinas or whoever it was.
And these, it's like looking at the works of Shakespeare.
They are genius.
There was no Hamlet, but the works are genius.
And it's the same with this.
You know, there was no Jesus, but the works are amazing.
And so my feeling with Paul is there's a great,
the book I would recommend, funnily enough,
I've just done it to someone just before I spoke to you,
is the Elaine Pagel's book on the Gnostic Paul,
which I think is excellent.
With Paul, I think there's two Pauls.
There's the historical Paul,
who writes some of the letters we have,
who writes in the Greek of the ancient Greek mysteries,
who never talks about anything to do with an historical figure,
who says that the Greek secret that's been stored up
from the beginning of time is the Christ in you,
and who sees Christ as someone you die and resurrect with.
He is the great hero of the Gnostics.
Valentinas, for instance, says that he received the gnosis
from Thudas, who received it from Paul.
So this is a direct run through historically.
So he's the great hero of the Gnostics,
which is why I think by the second century,
you get a whole different Paul.
And that Paul is anti-Gnostic.
He's the one who writes about gnosis falsely so-called
and tells women they should wear hats in church.
The Gnostics, of course, are well-known
for their radical approach to women.
You know, they're like the Pythagoreans.
Well, they are Pythagoreans, really,
who treated women as equals, was just, I mean, unheard of.
And one of the great things which the Roman church
will later attack Gnosticism for
is that they have Gnostic priests,
they have Gnostic bishops who are women.
And fascinating, you know, we have a whole list of texts,
which most of which we don't have,
but a list of Gnostic texts, which is in the work of Celsus.
And I think it's all of them, actually.
I mean, it's a lot of them are all credited to women.
I mean, probably mythical women, but women.
So you've got this very radically different Paul.
You've got this literalist, not very pleasant, Paul.
And his job is to try and destroy the real Paul.
And those letters turn up in the second century
with Irenaeus, who is one of the proto-literalists.
He's also the person
who starts putting the Gospels together,
takes the four that could possibly be
the same thing because they look as if their stories
and misses out all of the mythical ones,
which are doing the rounds
and gives us what we now call Christianity.
He's the person where we're endlessly arguing
about these four books.
And if we just put them in the context
of all the other Gnostic books we have at the time,
the argument would finish.
There'd be no argument, would they?
Because they're clearly mythological.
But we don't know much about Paul.
Most of the stuff we think we know about Paul
is later stuff, and shouldn't be taken seriously.
Right, so the things that come along later very often
are designed to contradict some
of what was posited earlier.
The flow of time in this is fascinating.
And Tim, the fact that you and I stepped
into this dimension of existence in the same year, 1959.
And I'm gonna take you back a little further back
than that, about 15 years.
The mid 1940s, you know, the world at war.
And here we are, 20th century,
but yet, you know, we're aping our ancestors
with stone knives and bare skins.
And here we, in the middle of this,
is plopped the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls
and the Nag Hammadi Library.
Fantastic.
You know, within five years of one another.
So think about that,
and compare, if you will, the discovery
of the Nag Hammadi Library to that of the Dead Sea Scrolls.
We've had quite a lot of time
to work with those collections of text now.
Why is it you think that the Dead Sea Scrolls
have received the lion's share of attention?
Or perhaps you don't agree with that.
But it seems to me that they have.
Are the politics behind the two collections
perhaps different?
And how would you compare the ultimate value
of those two collections,
the Dead Sea Scrolls for Judaism
and the Nag Hammadi Library for Christianity?
I will, the Nag Hammadi has received
an awful lot more of my attention.
So I know it much, much better than I do the Dead Sea Scrolls.
So I'm a biased witness to this.
Has it received less,
the Nag Hammadi received less attention?
Probably yes, because it's challenging.
I find it amazing as a curious human being
that it's not a permanent bestseller,
not because it's such a great book,
because a lot of it is really quite difficult to read,
to be honest, and very strange.
And some of it's beautiful and some of it's not.
It's a library and books of various quality.
But it's about Christianity.
And some of the books there,
it contains the words of Jesus allegedly,
the voice, the mouthpiece for the wisdom
is the figure of Jesus.
So why every Christian in the world
hasn't just gone, at least, and bought the Gospel of Thomas,
and gone, wow, there's another Gospel being found.
Fantastic, let's read that.
But they haven't, because they're told not to.
And that's why I think the Nag Hammadi
is more important, in my view,
because it is relevant to the tradition,
which has dominated Western spirituality
and the Western soul for 2,000 years.
And it casts it in a whole new light.
And in that way, it's got to be
one of the most significant archaeological finds of all time.
What a shame that so much of it was burnt
to keep a shepherd warm at night,
because you'd love to get your hands on that.
And God bless Carl Jung for being able to get his hands on it
and to look after it for us.
Right.
To be wise enough to know that the Gnostics had something,
that the Gnostics were, as he said,
proto-psychologists,
and that they were doing something
to do with the nature of the soul and the unconscious,
which he was picking up
in his reinvention of Gnosticism 2,000 years later.
I'm extremely fascinated at this.
I mean, I'm a recovering addict myself.
And when I was reading about this recovery process
and these 12 steps,
quite interesting, they use 12 steps.
I almost think,
because going back to some of the history in the 30s,
since we're talking history,
these guys, Bill and Bob, who started AA,
okay, they were in communication with people
who were in communication with Carl Jung.
Carl Jung had brought some of this philosophy
to the table, as well as the Oxford group,
where they got some of this material from.
And so they come up with this conception of a higher power
of your own understanding.
Whoa, you heretics,
you better chill with that, right?
So I still use that.
And I've tried,
I'm being absolutely honest on a personal level.
I have tried religion to escape.
And I've always found myself wanting.
And here I have literally just surrendered to the now,
to the present, and to the, I am just a human.
I'm just, I'm fickle.
I am not perfect.
I don't know what to do.
I cried out to something inside of me,
and didn't look up to a cloud.
I didn't ask the grandfather up there
in the sky somewhere.
I cried out inside of me,
and this thing came true for me.
And so your writings, your literature, your lectures,
it seems to me is revolutionary,
and it's all about finding the God within.
Could you elaborate a little bit on that?
Yeah, I think it's exactly that, Derek.
I mean, for me, that's the gnosis.
The gnosis, I mean, I presume most of your listeners
will know gnosis means knowledge,
it means knowing in the mystical sense, as a Greek word.
And so the gnosis is knowing your own deeper self.
And as Clement of Alexander says,
when you know your own self, you know God,
because they're the same thing.
So what you have there is the idea that the Christ
is the Christ in you that we were talking about earlier,
that Paul talks about, that it's all about discovering that.
I think that's the same as what in the Hindu tradition
is the Atma, or in Buddhism is the Buddha nature.
And it's the idea that my deepest being
is one with the being of all.
So that although Tim is a unique soul,
his spirit, his essence, his being is one with all being.
And that oneness of all being is what you could call God.
So that the whole journey of gnosis
is for your particular soul.
And let me just say this, you know,
one of the things which I love is really getting,
and this was huge for me in writing Jesus and the Goddess.
It was a breakthrough moment,
because I had to sit down and it was all these terms,
numa, spirit, psyche, psyche, soul,
and the physical body and so on.
I was like, what are they talking about?
And I'd written books already, quite a few,
and I didn't know, I'd never thought about it.
It was like spirit, soul, are they all the same thing?
Are they different? What's the difference?
You know, do you have one of each?
And actually to go into it and go, oh my God,
these people are talking about the obvious
in a very profound way.
So that we're so used to these theological concepts,
we don't see what they actually mean.
So what I see now is, oh, I'm obviously a body and a soul,
because the body is the physical, here it is,
is my sensation, and the soul is the psyche.
I'm also experiencing a non-material world,
I'm always experiencing that, of the imagination.
And it's full of images and they don't exist in space,
and they're not made of matter.
So I'm both material and non-material, everyone is.
You can't possibly miss that.
It's so obvious, you're a body and a soul,
no one could disagree with that.
It's obvious.
And then there's spirit, which is essence or being,
essence from essay to be, is your being.
And I think what they're saying is,
look, there's a flow of sensation, which is your body,
there's a flow of imagination, which is your soul,
and then there's the presence that is experiencing that.
And that's your being.
And the thing which is your being is something,
well, let me quote the Gospel of Thomas.
In the Gospel of Thomas, where Jesus is revealing the gnosis,
he says, I will show you what you cannot see,
what you cannot hear, what you cannot touch,
and what you cannot imagine.
And that spirit, and it's not because it's difficult
to imagine, it's because it's the thing
which is experiencing the imagination.
It's not that it's difficult to see,
it's the thing that's looking.
And the thing which is looking doesn't have a shape or a color.
The things you're looking at have shapes and colors.
The presence that's looking has no shape.
It makes no noise.
It has no qualities other than, as it says in the,
the cloud of unknowing, the medieval Gnostic text,
it's a naked sense of being.
There's a lovely, there's in one of the,
there's a one called the stranger,
in one of the old Gnostic texts,
where the goddess is revealing the gnosis to the seeker.
And she says, put your attention to the rear of your,
to the rear of your experience.
So you're coming back, come back before your experience.
So what's the experiencer?
And that is the great,
that's what's meant in the ancient world by contemplation.
It's that you're putting yourself back into this presence,
which is witnessing everything
and has no qualities except being.
And when you do that, what arises is this enormous oneness.
Cause you're one with everything.
Tim's not one with everything,
but my deep being is one with everything.
And Tim sees that.
And what arises with the oneness is this, is agape.
This tremendous love.
Cause love is how the oneness feels.
When you, when you realize you're one with someone
or someplace, anything, it feels like love.
That's what love is, it's connection.
So when you come back into the presence of the Christ
or your deep being, there's this oneness.
And then there's this love,
which you can even love your enemies.
It's a love, which he loves everything, just cause it is.
And that's what the whole game's always been about.
That's what happened to these people 2000 years ago.
That's why they created all of that.
And that's what can happen to us today.
It is happening to us today.
It is indeed.
And it's all existential.
You have to experience it in order to understand it.
I come, yeah, you know,
I come from the Orthodox Christian perspective
being a Christian minister, even to this day
and the Methodist tradition.
And you talk in your book,
The Jesus Mysteries About Mystery Initiations
and the Revelation in the Dance.
And I just take that as an example
of all these kinds of modes of reality
that have to enter into our being
so that we can learn from them,
to put them in the mix.
And I look at the dryness of our church services
and ways to restore some of that,
particularly in the number of voices
and the types of voices that are present
during those times that we call worship.
And at the time you were writing The Jesus Mysteries,
I was traveling to Guatemala
where Christians sing the Psalms of the Bible.
You're familiar with the Psalms,
many of them written by David.
Yeah, indeed, I've sung them myself.
Yes, and it opens up a whole another dimension
because as you know,
the songs are the song book of Israel
and should almost always be sung.
So I remember coming back to the United States
and saying, okay, well, as a step toward getting in touch
with the entire memory theater
that was the early Christians' experiences,
we're going to sing the Psalms.
Are we moving toward that,
toward more dimensions of expression in our acts of,
shall we say, worship?
And is that a revolution or an evolution?
Ha, ha, ha, ha, a bit of both I think.
I mean, I hope so, Luther, I think so.
I think what's happening,
I think there is a revolution happening in consciousness.
How quickly it's going, hard for me to say.
The people I meet are amazing,
but I watch the news, it doesn't look good.
So, which was probably a bit of both.
So my sense is what that revolution is,
is what Derek said earlier,
that we can approach the higher power
in whatever way works for us.
That's a huge revelation and a very Gnostic thought.
There's a lovely, I think it was Irenaeus,
who we mentioned earlier, this literalist bishop,
complaining about the Gnostics,
going, the trouble with the Gnostics is,
each one of them seems to have to invent their own myth
before they're properly recognized as initiated.
So there's like, he hates that,
they've all got their own story, what the hell?
Whereas that's, of course, that will Gnostic point,
it's like, be yourself.
If you can't, if you can't describe the Gnosis
back to me in your own way, you haven't found the Gnosis.
You're just parroting somebody else.
But the minute it's your own way,
you've got it, I see, you know.
So that's happening, that's happening,
and a hurrah for that.
And I think the revolution that started in the 60s
has been a big part of just going,
look, we can, I think that's the Dionysian thread
has come back, that sensual embodied passion.
And that's, I like that too.
Well, Tim, we're coming to the end of this show right here.
I am in awe of what you said
because it's my experience as well.
It's not just that it makes sense.
I've looked at this
and I've been investigating this for some time,
but I actually experienced what you're saying.
And so does Luther.
How do our guests get ahold of your works?
What's the best way to reach you
or to get your materials, whatever you have available?
Well, the best way is on my website, timfreak.com.
You have to remember that my name is pronounced freak,
but spelled F-R-E-K-E.
It's an old English name,
but I'm easy to find on the internet
because it's such a weird name.
And the Jesus Mysteries is the one,
if you're interested in the historical Jesus.
The next one is the Jesus and the Lost Goddess,
which I've got here.
I can show you that one, which is this one,
which is really about what the myth means.
So the more esoteric side.
And then there's others as well.
If you're really up for it,
one of my favorite books is the Gospel of the Second Coming,
which is my naughty book.
It's a very, very naughty book.
You should not read it if you're easily upset.
But it came from this,
this was me and Peter,
many, many years after the Jesus Mysteries.
When we first put out the Jesus Mysteries,
we did both, we really tried hard
to appear like serious scholars
because we wanted to be taken seriously.
But after a decade or more,
we just couldn't be bothered with that anymore.
We just wanted to have some fun.
So we wrote a new Gospel.
Again, we did what the Gnostics did.
We wrote our own Gospel,
in which Jesus comes back to explain
he doesn't really exist.
And that freaking Gandhi had got it right
in the Jesus Mysteries.
And then put all of the great ideas
in the Jesus Mysteries into a new Gospel,
except with jokes.
So I think my privately,
the thing I'm probably most proud of,
is that for a little while,
there was big posters on the London Underground,
you know, the Metro.
With a picture of that book,
the Gospel of the Second Coming,
and the slogan in big writing by outside was,
Jesus is back, but this time he's funny.
And that was great.
So there's all of that.
Then there's all my new work.
The Stuff About Time is in the book called Soul Story.
It's all on my website.
There's an online course you can get on the philosophy.
I'm gonna be launching a lot of new stuff.
So sign up to my newsletter,
and you can hear about that.
And I am coming to America in March
to run events in Ensinitas, two in San Francisco,
two in Boulder, and then I'm coming back
to the Omega Institute near New York in June
to run a whole retreat.
So if any of this fascinates you,
you can also call Tepi, Facebook, you know,
all the usual things.
Wow, thank you so much, Tim.
Ladies and gentlemen, check the description out.
You'll find his website.
It'll be the first thing there in the description.
Just click it, like it, and check out his materials.
This is amazing.
Thank you for joining us.
Stay tuned for the next episode
with Tim Freak and MythVision Podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert, co-host, Dr. Luther G. Williams.
