Welcome to MythVision Podcast. You've got your hosts, Derek Lambert, and co-host,
Dr. Luther G. Williams. I'm super excited about this show here. We're going to be
delving into an amazing, amazing guest. He's such a busy man. It was a
blessing to even get him here on the show. If you like what you're hearing with
this show, please be partners with us. Go down in the description. Check out ways
to help us out. Honestly, it always helps us out so we can keep this thing going.
We believe in what we're doing. Luther, I'm not going to waste any more time.
Please catapult us into the next segment of the show.
I'll strap on tight, Derek, because our guest is Tim Freak, a pioneering
philosopher whose best-selling books, inspirational talks, life-changing
retreats, and transformative training programs have touched the hearts and
minds of many, many, many people around the globe. He's the author of some 35
books translated into more than 15 languages, including The Jesus Mysteries,
which was a top six Amazon bestseller and Daily Telegraph Book of the Year.
We talked all about that in our first show with Tim. This is a continuation
of his time with us. And in his two most recent books, Deep Awake and Soul
Story, Tim offers a revolutionary approach to awakening for the 21st century
and a visionary new understanding of the nature of reality. I always like to
say, Tim is all about the equation, truth plus transparency plus traction
equals transformation. He gets traction on issues way beyond what you'll see
ordinary scholars deal with. I mean, it's not just intellectual. He puts this
into action. You know, I say, you know, that Tim is to scholarship sort of
what Groucho Marx said, I'd never want to join a club that would have me as a
member. So he's way beyond just ordinary scholarship now. So Tim, wonderful to
have you back for the second half.
It's great to be here. Yeah, I really enjoyed the last one. I'm sure we're
going to enjoy this one too.
Oh, great, great. You know, in your book, The Jesus Mysteries, you show that for
the Gnostics, Jesus must be understood on many different levels. And so that's
kind of the religious side. But then on the physical side of things, we have
frontier science and many people are kind of approaching the same types of
issues from a scientific background. They're recognizing that reality is
fluid. It's vibratory. It is quantum. You travel all around the world. Do you
find that religion and science are coming together today in a way that
we've been waiting for?
Yes, and no. Yes, because I think people really want it to happen. Certain
people do. Excuse me, I'm steaming up with excitement as I'm talking to you. Let
me just clean my glasses. I think there is a lot of really good attempts to try
and bring science and spirituality together. There's a lot of people on
both sides that don't want that to happen. And there's a growing group in the
middle who do. Speaking personally, I think there is a huge shift in our
understanding coming. And it will be a shift which enables us to understand
both the physical causal nature of reality and also the sole dimension of
reality, which spirituality has always been about and how they relate. And when
we get there, and I think it is coming, I think it will be as big a shift for
the human culture as the emergence of science was three, four hundred years
ago. I think it will be enormous. Are we there yet? No. And it's because it's
actually very difficult to bring science and spirituality together. And that's
why it's been my focus for the last period of my life. It's been like, ah,
how can we genuinely bring this together? And personally, I think some of the
attempts that's being made at the moment through quantum physics and things like
for reasons I can share, I don't think they really were. I think what's
happening is that science has been misappropriated and interpreted in a way
that no physicist would agree with. On the one hand, in order to fit it into
spirituality, on the other hand, spirituality is being really diminished.
So it's now just about oneness and entanglement. Well, it is about that,
but it's about also the immortality of the soul, for instance, and the way
that synchronicity happens or magical events. How does that fit in with
physics? That's really hard. So my passion and what my last book's soul story was
about is I feel we can bring these two together. And the secret is an
evolutionary understanding which includes both, which I can explore as much as you
want with you. But I think that's my answer to the question. It's interesting
you say that, Tim, because I personally, and this is, you know, when one thing
after another keeps popping up, it's like the universe is talking to you, you
know? And I recently have had this discussion in recent Facebook groups
talking about dreams. And like one lady, I guess, was speaking to a person who
actually does not believe in anything like that, of the sort of knowing
something before it happened type of revelatory experiences like that. I
personally, and this is just me, I personally don't believe people's arms
come back that don't exist. I don't believe dead corpses come back from the
dead. I don't believe personally in those type of experiences. That's just me
based off of my experience and what I've observed and what I've experienced. But
I do, however, believe that there are these strange, what we like to call
coincidences that do not ever seem coincidental. It's like they happen
exactly when, and there's consecutive things that continuously happen in my
life, that to say it's my brain having a fart, it just doesn't make sense to
me. And so those are the things that when people ask me, well, it seems you're
somewhat naturalistic, but you're somewhat not. I try to tell them, what if
there's an energy force, some metaphysical misunderstanding we're not
aware of in our evolution or thought, and we're not able to pin down what
that is, and people are calling that spirituality, but in the scientific
world, we aren't able to say what it is, and here they are meeting together, and
we're able as humans to tap into that. And therefore, it's like answering
prayers, if you will, where there's power of conscious awareness that humans
are able to have that make these things come true. Almost like we're drawing
them in from the ether. What are your thoughts on that? Do you have an
experience on that?
Yeah, definitely. Most of the people I know experience life as very
paradoxical. On the one hand, it's very cause and effect if you drop
something, it falls. And most of life, you can approach in that way. But then
from time to time, magic happens. From time to time, things have
synchronicities to use Carl Jung and Paulie's term. Suddenly life's
like a dream. Hang on, this is like a dream. I mean, I'm coming to America
in March to do a number of events, including Speak at Ted, and I want to
talk about this. So I've just been thinking about this. I was remembering
a synchronicity, which is particularly relevant to us, given that we're talking
about Gnostic. When I was quite young, and I was sitting on my bed and I was
meditating with my eyes closed on the figure of a Cyrus, the Egyptian God,
which we were studying at the time. And above my head, there was this shelf,
which I built the shelf myself. I'm really bad at DIY, so it wobbled. And
every day at 11 o'clock, because I was living in a cheap part of town in
an attic, this concrete train would go past and the whole house would
shudder. And I'm there sitting meditating, and the train goes past and
this huge book comes and falls in front of me and opens up as if I was
reading it. Now, the book falling was causality. The train went past, I
built the shelves, they wobbled, it fell. Okay. But something else was
going on, because that particular book wasn't any book. It was Mysterium
Conjunctionus by Carl Jung, the guy who coined the name synchronicity. And it
opened on a page in which he was discussing a Cyrus that I'd just been
meditating on. Now, if that happens to you enough, and God knows it's happened
to me so many times I've forgotten them all, then there's a phenomena there,
which if you're a curious person, you go, I want to understand. So I think
most of us experience life as a magical story, not always magical, but
sometimes there is a dreamlike dimension to life. And there's also a
non-dreamlike dimension to life. And I think there's these, it's because
there are two realms interacting. And we're experiencing those two realms
all the time. They're the realm of the body and the realm of the soul or
the psyche. One is the imagination. It is a dream. We're in a dream right
now. We're having thoughts. There's no thoughts in the world. There's no
images in the world. There's no meaning in the world. I love that. You know,
it's like one of the things I love to do. Your viewers can do this at the same
time as you do. It's just, if you look at me, what you're actually seeing in
the world is a monkey wearing clothes, making funny noises. That's what's in
the world. But what's happening in soul in your psyche is you're hearing
meaning. But there's no meaning in the sound waves. The meaning is all in this
non-material dimension. So this non-material dimension, which is a dream,
which is all about narrative and story, is interacting with this material causal
dimension. And they're interacting all the time. And I think that's what we need
to understand. The problem with science, we've got science, we've said about
bringing science to spirituality. The problem with spirituality is it ignores
causality. It's all magic. It's the secret. Just dream it. It will happen. Well,
you know what? Sometimes the magic works and sometimes it don't. Because it's not
quite like that. The world is causal. And it's not just a dream.
There's a difference between dreams and causality. But they do interact. So
that's what, so spirituality is going, it's just this one. And then science is
doing the opposite. It's going, no, it's just this one. I mean, the analogy I love
for science, it feels like science is like giving someone a DVD of a film and
going, hey, what do you make of this? And then coming back the next day, saying,
well, I've looked at it carefully and it's digital information encoded on a
disk, which projects pixels on a screen. And you go, yeah, I know, that's true.
But what did you think? Because that's the bit we're really interested in.
Oh, man. Okay. Okay. Okay. Look, this is good.
This is fantastic. Fantastic. Okay. Now I want to go back to the Bible of all
places and reread the story of Moses and the burning bush as maybe an
invitation to act on a potentiality. The burning bush aroused Moses' curiosity.
So here he gets a chance to reflect his particular perspective on the universe.
I mean, I'm thinking about all sorts of things, Tim, based on what you're saying.
So anyway, let's go back to your life. 1959, you're born into a set of specific
circumstances as your wave function collapses. How did, which is a good thing,
it's a good thing. You became real. I'm glad we're sharing this dimension.
How did the circumstances of your birth prepare you for your life's work?
I want you to reflect a bit on that. You didn't have control over any of that stuff.
How do you see that as having prepared you for what you are doing now and what
you are about to do?
Well, I was born in a very nondescript little town in the Southwest of England.
And I think it was so boring. I had to make life interesting.
And it was full of people like that. So I met one of them was Peter Gandhi,
who I met as a boy, who I went on to write the Jesus Mysteries with.
And Peter and I met in that time and we went through all sorts of adventures,
daring, mad thing you can imagine to play with consciousness together.
So that's one of the things. The other things about, you know,
this is an interesting question. I don't normally get asked. And I think
the role that my parents played was huge. My parents were around a small business,
a small hairdressing business. They loved culture,
but they were not intellectuals by any stretch. They were smart.
But what they really had was an interesting polarity because I thought just the other day,
my dad's thing he would say to me over and over again all the time was,
Timothy, stop and think. And I thought, I've just embedded that in me.
This kind of like, whoa, before you just believe something or you do something,
stop and think. And my mum, although she never said it,
what she was in her very being was stop and love. That's what she was.
She was just this being of love. I don't know. She had the gnosis.
I have no idea how she had the gnosis. She didn't read any books particularly.
She was very smart. She didn't read books particularly. She read my books,
but that's because they were by me. She had read my books if they were on
train spotting. She wasn't really into philosophy, any of this stuff.
But she just knew. She knew that deep oneness and that love.
So I had this very interesting polarity of this stop and think and stop and love.
And I think that's given me this whole, what I call this,
parological understanding of it's not either or it's both and.
So it's both. So for me, it's very much about the head and the heart.
It's both. How could you not have both? So it's very much about being,
waking up to the oneness, but also it's about endorsing the individual.
It's always both. And science and spirituality. It's not one or the other.
It's both. And it's not the spiritual realm creating matter.
When it's not matter, just on its own, it's both. It's both.
So I think that was all there. What an interesting question.
That is a good answer. And I feel like I'd love to touch on the whole female and
mothers and, and wives and they know, they have a sense they can tap into seems much better than
we do. I mean, for 12 years, my wife, when I first married her, and I was extremely religious,
I mean, I was like die hard Bible thumping, you know, fundamentalist Christian.
And she's like, men wrote this, honey. You do know, like, like, you know, and I was thinking
she was the opposite of me, but she was saying, no, there's truth to it, but you're taking this
thing way too far. You don't understand. Years later, when I researched, of course,
I came to some actual answers in this causal world. It was like, you know what, I found out
some things. She goes, I told you, you know, I already told you. And I was like, well, how would
you know you didn't study? And she's just like, my, my gut had told me that something wasn't
right about what you would, you know, where you were at. So it's really strange how women know
these things. But I wanted to take this gnosis to a different place, if you don't mind, because
you've traveled across the world, exploring, teaching, you've found significant groups,
I suspect, of Gnostics that may still exist or have gone underground. What can we do to rebuild
this Gnostic network? And are there, are there some Gnostic groups out there that you've encountered
that were like, wow, they're onto some stuff. Can you go into some of that maybe?
Yeah, they do exist. I can't really go into it because they're still mostly secret,
which I don't think they need to be anymore. I mean, one must remember that the secret societies
were secret because you were allowable to die. Some of them are still in cultures where that's
true. And I think that's why some of them are still secret, because especially in the Islamic
cultures and some of those places, it's still quite dangerous. And they're deep and profound and
amazing people. And I've been very privileged to meet them and learn with them and see them.
But personally, I don't think that is the way to go or not for me. When I first did the Jesus
Mysteries, I had a lot of people going, are you going to set up a Gnostic church? It's like,
oh no, not more bishops. It's like that's not for me. I think what I'm interested in is a new
form of Gnosticism, which really brings it into the 21st century. And even calling it Gnosticism
is probably a distraction. It's about getting this Gnosis and being able to say it clearly
and have practices where you can experience it for yourself. So my favorite thing, guys, is when
I can get together, like I'm going to in June at the Omega Institute, for instance, with 20,
30, 40 people and go, right, let's really look at who we are and what this is in so deeply.
Let's relax. Let's enjoy ourselves. And my intention will be that everyone experiences the Gnosis
and feels the big love, feels the agape in every cell of their body in such a way they
can't possibly miss it because that's what we need. And then we need to take it out and share it
and keep building it and come back to it because you'll forget because it's hard to remember because
it's so big. It's hard, but you can and you can keep returning to it. And you know, I remember
more than I did. And that's because I keep returning to it. And so that's my real passion,
is let's, let's, let's, let's, let's create a new, new Gnosticism and let's create a Gnosticism
which can actually be in harmony with science because science truly is amazing. But it's,
but it's narrow, like we discussed. So let's open science up and bring the two together.
The words song, dance, harmony, or just a little light peppering through what you say.
Tim, what's your favorite song? What, what's your favorite
lyric? I guess that would be, that would be something to consider. And then maybe your
favorite music. Oh, God, I love music so much, Luther. I used to be a musician before as a writer
because music is the biggest magic I know. I wanted to change people's consciousness and it
felt like, well, nothing does it like music. I just make music. So from the age of about 15,
onwards, right until my early thirties, I was making music, writing music, performing, recording
studio, recording studios, all of that stuff. So I love, I really love music and I use a lot of
music at my retreats because it's so transformative. So when I give people big experiences, often I'll
have music there as well so that they can have that. My favorite pieces, oh, Jesus, how can you
possibly say, but the, and my lyrics, I love, but I mean, but one of the lyrics that was,
which was, which came into my mind when you said it. So his one was from one by you two,
where Bono sings, we are one, but we're not the same. We get to carry each other, carry each other.
And I just always well up every time I hear those lines, we're one, but we're not the same.
We get to carry each other. I just think that is so deep. That's it. That's the Moses. That's it.
I love music too. And Luther and I sometimes will sit there for hours and just jam.
And we'll just jam and enjoy each other's presence and talk and be funny, you know, just be us. And so
about you, because I find your story fascinating, I could relate to you so much on so many levels.
What was the aha to all of this? When was the, when were you, when did you really wake up?
There's a story about when you were 12. Is that when it happened? When you had this
rebirth concept idea, what they would call being born again or, or being waking up or
from the slumber. What, what was that aha? And how did that happen? Can you go a little bit into that?
Yeah, I think it started the first one. I mean, there's been lots of them. And I hope there'll
be more. But there's a lot of waking up to be done. The, it started there when I was, was, was 12, almost 13.
And I'd always found life deeply mysterious. Always. And it always felt like I'm alive.
And my job is to find out why. And I will. And I can remember my dad saying to me,
going for walks with him and him saying, better men than you and me, Timothy, have asked these
questions and found no answers. And I remember thinking, but I will, because how could there be
such a big question if there wasn't such a big answer? That's ridiculous. And so it was already
there, that kind of arrogance, really youthful arrogance. And, and then one day, just sitting
on this hill overlooking the sleeping town, sitting with the mystery and the big questions,
something happened. And it was the first time, certainly was the first time I'd ever experienced
it since I was old enough to remember this incredible oneness. The biggest thing I remember
is the love. And I remember it well, but I also wrote about it straight away after I've got things
I wrote about the experience. So I've got a record and this enormous love, like everything is just
full of love. And so there was a huge feeling of, Oh, my God, I found the answer I was looking for,
but it turns out to be not in words. It turns out that the answer is actually an experience.
So the idea that I would later discover as noses here about as noses was, was already there. It was
like, Oh, so when I came across the noses, and they get garbage, I know, I know what this is.
And also in between, I've been just giving up as much time as I could to learning about
finding people who knew what I was talking about. And that's why I studied the spiritual
traditions of the world and went through them and going, Oh, here's a guy talking about oneness and
love in China 500 BC. Oh, here's someone talking about it. And the Sufi tradition in Islam. Oh,
here's someone in the Zen Buddhist tradition. And they're all different. They're all like us.
They're individuals. They've got certain qualities that the others lack and vice versa. But,
but there's a similarity. There's a common human experience. And then that started off the journey.
And then it's just carried on ever since. And there's been periods where I've
kind of felt confused and lost. I mean, periods where I've come through to another level. And
that seems to be the dialectic, the conversation of awakening, which happens to me and seems to
happen to everyone who goes on this path. And Tim, you keep that conversation going. And one of the
things I admire most about your work is your transparency. Do you ever, you don't have to
talk about it. But I don't know if you, if you do, but that's what's really amazing, the fact that
you're so real and that all of us can identify at some level with your experiences. So you're 12
years old. And, and, and already you're using mass media to communicate this love that you're
feeling because you wrote a play. I believe it was called the wrong way. What, what, okay. So
12 years old. Come on, Tim. What was it like to birth that into the world at, at such an age?
By the time I did the play, I was 13. Not that much difference. And it was, again, I look back
and I think, God, you know, I'm almost 60. You know, he said I was born at 59, almost 60 in a
few months. So I've been looking back on my life and thinking, wow, who was that little kid? And,
and I think he, he was amazing. And I love him. But he was also probably a bit irritating and
precocious and full of himself. And, and there was just this enormous self confidence. I wrote the
play. It was about going through the whole of history about the, that we've done things in the
wrong way, because we've all been full of hate and war. And it had this kind of Gnostic Christian
figure, Christ figure coming through, suggesting we did it in a different way. And it was outrageous.
It was done in a church, which had been transformed into a theater. It had swearing in,
because it had a, it had a scene which was in Northern Ireland, which was, there was a troubles
at the time. And so the scene was in the top was a lot of, and I put in swearing. So it's all done
by kids. So everyone under 15 swearing in church, the TV cameras turned up, it was like, and it's
packed, absolutely packed for night after night after night. And, and I was there, this kid just
telling all of these adults what to do with the lights and I want this and do this. And I think,
Jesus, they must have looked at me and thought, who is this kid? This is, you know, get a grip.
But somehow, and how much of that came from just my own confidence and arrogance or whatever it
was, and how much of that came from the experience I'd had and the feeling of this really mattered.
But right from the start, it felt about communication. Let's get this out there.
You know, Tim, you've, you've talked about, like, well, let's put it this way, life seems scary.
Okay. And we become obsessed with trying to protect ourselves. And I'm actually personally
going through counseling at this moment in my own life. And I find it very useful because one of the
methods that she makes me do, she goes, I want you to look at yourself from a different perspective,
like you're not kind of like what you talked about with going back and behind in our last episode,
and look at yourself. That's a method that professional medical psychologists and, and such
are telling me, this is what I need to do to help me in my life. And I notice I have a lot of fear.
There's a lot of fear at the baseness. How do you throw off that numbness of life, that fear that,
how do we deal with those things in your line of research, if you don't mind me asking?
Not at all. So I mentioned earlier, I have this, what I call a paralogical approach to things,
which is both and rather than either. And, and that has been a huge help for me.
Because if you try and step into a place where you have no fear, I suspect it will be impossible.
And you know what, not even desirable. Now, when people say to me, Oh, since I've got involved
in spirituality, I just don't experience fear anymore. And my feeling is, wow, you've been
not paying attention. Because life is really scary. And bad things happen to good people
all the time. And I know there's no reason why they can't happen to me and the people I love.
I hope they don't, but they can. So it's in trick life is intrinsically
frightening, part of it. It's also intrinsically beautiful and, and exquisite, but it's everything.
However, or as well, there is a deep part of me and you, which is completely still and completely
safe, which is just like present. It's just this very, it's the big love,
just holding everything just as it is. So my own way is to go, look, don't get rid of the problem,
but find the other pole. Because then what I find is that there's Tim and sometimes he's scared
because life can be scary. And then there's this deep stillness of my being, which is one with
everything, which is just holding it. There it is. And then I have both, not one or the other.
And that it feels is what courage is. So courage is not having fear.
That's full hardiness. That's a kind of stupidity.
Courage is when you see something and you see that life is scary, but it doesn't overpower you
because you have this other pole with you as well. And then you can face the fear and then you can go
through it and find the courage to live, to engage and to not take the route that you mentioned of
numbness, which is, well, so many of us do because we can't, it's too much.
Does that make sense what I said, Derek?
It hits home for me so much. It really does. And I really appreciate that because I'm going to look
at that even further in my own walk. As I listen to your path of expression and just dealing with
the circumstances that surround you, I think about my own path. And at some point, I became aware that
I had moved beyond this, I don't know, I guess you might call it veil of radical interiority. And I
came to realize that the world is populated by other beings. There are other people here
who have the power to affect me, which I always knew, but also whom I have the power to affect.
And I remember in college, it was a writing exercise, it was an honors English class.
And I discovered, Tim, that expressing myself is not just an empty exercise, but that it's connected
to my being directly, integrally to who I am. And so I started writing in a different way.
And, you know, I think of these, I think of these phrases that were unusual. And I'd say, well,
no, I never heard anybody say that. And then I gave myself permission to say that. I said, okay,
nobody said that before. But that's what I'm feeling in my heart. And I'm going to go ahead
and write it. Have you had an experience like that? Oh, yeah. That's beautifully put, Nathan. Yeah,
that's, you know, we are, we experienced two realms. We talked about this before, you know,
we experienced the realm of the body of sensation and the realm of the psyche or soul, which is the
imagination. And we bring the imagination, the imagination is heaven, earth and heaven,
the imagination is heaven. That's what it is. And hell is both. And we bring heaven to earth,
when we find, we go into the imagination, we find something beautiful, and then we bring it
into the world. And whenever we do that, we bring a bit of heaven to earth. And people have been
doing that now so much that as I sit here with you, everything I can see apart from my own body
has come through the imagination, everything. My clothes, I'm looking at images of you on a
computer screen, the microphone, my glass, everything has been imagined. So we're bringing
the imagination in, I think that's what we're doing. We're bringing those two worlds together.
We imagine how good it can be. And then there's the reality, which is not so good. And then we
do our best to transform the physical reality into the idea where it's better. And what a beautiful
vision that is. And with writing, God, isn't that a wonderful thing? To have thoughts and then
express them. And like we're doing now, to conceptualize ideas and find a way, make these
funny noises with our mouths and send them across to each other. And then in they come, and then
the idea arises in another soul. And with books, it's like the whole thing, but in slow motion. So
I can have a thought. And then five years later, somebody has that same thought, but I just,
that I had five years before. And they're getting that thought, that message from me,
hi, there's a message from Tim. And they get to say that. And that's just wonderful.
Wonderful. Yes. Gentlemen, it looks like we are running out of time. Luther, would you like to
make a last statement, comment before we end up talking about how we can get ahold of Mr. Freaks
materials? Well, just Tim, having you at this juncture in your life has been a special treat.
You make 60 this year, as you've said. And you have entered, you've talked about it on video,
in fact, you're in this extraordinary period of personal reflection. You know what I'm talking
about? How would you describe it? And any very recent insights on where that's going will kind
of close with that. But it's a significant period in your life. It really is, Luther. And if anyone
wants to hear me talk about it, I have made a series of three videos over the last 12 months,
the last one of which has just been made, it's on YouTube, you can find my YouTube account,
it's called The Man Behind the Mask. And what that was inspired by was this feeling of,
like everyone, I spend an awful lot of time, you know, I've put my nice jacket on to talk to you
guys, look my best, you know, I don't want to have a shave, you know. And that's all good, of
course. But it's also like a mask, and it can become a professional mask, you know, I'm an
author, 15, 35 books, blah, blah, authority, and you lose the sense that that's all true.
But I'm also this guy called Tim, he grew up in the West country of England,
he gets scared, he does his best, some days he's very confused, some days he's really wise,
catch him on a good day if he can, you know, and there's things inside him which are amazing,
and things which are a bit troubling. And I'm on that journey, like everyone else. And that's
the most important bit. So I wanted to find a way of opening up to that and going, look, hi, Tim
behind here, here's the scholar, and then hello, is there's a guy there. And this last period,
as you just said, Luther, has been really transformative. Because after my last book,
Soul Story, I felt like, oh, I've achieved something I've set out to do since I was a little boy.
So now what? And there was a part of me that felt like I needed to stop, it takes you guys will know
to do these things takes the most extraordinary amount of effort and determination. It's not easy.
It's a it's a joy, but it's not easy. So I was really wrestling with do I go forward,
and I said, do I stop? Is it enough? Do I need time for me? I was a burning out a bit exhausted.
So I stopped everything, I stopped all my events. I was just like, whoa, my God, really.
And I've had a period of reflection, and I'm just about ready now to come back out and launch a whole
new thing, which I'm calling Univigilism, which is really taking my philosophy to a new level,
and my work events to a new level, this new Gnosticism, really. Because when I
there's part of me that would like to just kick back for me. But when I go deep to my intuition,
when I listen to God, the message is not yet, not yet, you got to do this, you've got to carry
this through yet, you haven't really started yet, you need to make this another big jump
with what you're doing. So I'm going to have a go and do my best. And I'm going to try and
coincide it with my 60th birthday. So if any of you listeners are in England, I invite everyone
to my 60th birthday party on the 6th of April, because we're going to launch the whole new thing,
or have a party, and we'll dance, and we'll meditate together, and gaze together, and I'll talk, and
we'll have fun, and we'll raise a glass. So I think it's a whole new phase, Luther. So it's
a delight to be here at this moment where I just feel like I'm coming out of hibernation,
coming out of withdrawal, and just going, yep, I think I'm getting ready for whatever it is next
in my little life. And I just want to do my best to contribute what I can while I can,
and share the love, share the nurses, share the wisdom. And in the same, and by doing that,
hopefully make my own journey and become a little bit wiser and more loving myself.
Tim, thanks so much for being on the show, for letting us know that you're here. And I'm talking
about in the cosmic sense, as well as with this show. Thanks for giving us not just Tim,
but also Timothy. I think you know what we mean by that. And so we couldn't ask for more. We're
going to love having you in the states. State side, he comes, ladies and gentlemen, in March,
I believe, right? Yeah, I'm coming to March. Encinitas, I'm not quite sure how to pronounce that.
San Francisco, I've got events. Boulder, I've got events. And then in June in the Omega Institute
near New York, it's all on my website, timfreak.com. There's loads of free videos. There's books you
can look at. There's lots of information. Facebook too, of course. There's a Timfreak forum where
I discuss ideas with people on Facebook. You can check that out. I'm available, you know, I'm around.
Fantastic, fantastic. Timfreak, ladies and gentlemen. Derek?
Thank you so much. And we look forward to maybe having a future podcast or meeting in person and
doing an interview ourselves. So who knows? Thank you for joining us so much, Tim.
It's been a real delight. Well, in the description, all this stuff will be there for you. Thanks for
joining MythVision Podcast. Derek Lambert, Dr. Luther G. Williams, and our special guest, Timothy Freik.
