What is a God?
Is far back as humans have been found in anthropological digs, finding our fossils, and the modern
physical sense our anatomy is, we have probably had a perception of some power or beings in
some nature worship sense, where aspects of nature, whether it be hurricanes, floods,
lightning, things way beyond our power, were attributed to some being or force of nature
which humans later call gods.
We have found several figurines, be sure to check out Gnostic and Formits YouTube channel
on these topics.
But humans have always done this, as far back as we could remember, why?
You know I dive into the science behind several of these topics to understand why do humans
believe?
Why do we assume?
There are things there when they aren't.
Approaching this scientifically with a skeptical mind, one walks away considering what are
these stories we've told ourselves, in the Rick Vedas, in the Bible, in various religions
we have these sacred texts that have highly, I would say exaggerated tales that look like
what we call mythology, legend, they might be a mixture of history and myth.
Did they really happen?
No.
Most likely not in most cases.
Are there anchoring to histories or what we call verisimilitude taking place?
Sure.
But that's how they wrote ancient fiction.
You know I used to worship Jesus as God in the flesh.
He was everything to me.
My entire world as a young kid, looking up to my mom and my father, both Christians in
some way shape or form.
Man was Roman Catholic, mom was Pentecostal.
So my whole world was a pretty privileged one.
I had a badass for a father who was special forces, Green Beret, on the front line of
many hardcore situations in South America and then also in the Middle East when all that
stuff took place.
And I felt like I was the center of the world.
In fact, we could do no wrong.
America was the best nation on the planet.
Of course we had the right religion.
That's why we're the best nation.
And I had all these really erroneous views.
I didn't know the big world of gods and cultures and beliefs that exist.
The different cultic mythic legendary tales in the ancient world.
I mean sure I had been immersed in stuff that is legendary folklore like Paul Bunyan or
various things that we've told ourselves as stories.
I was big into video games, but never for a second did it dawn on me that Christianity
Jesus was also legend myth folklore cultic material like any other religion.
This was sacred cows and you better not slaughter a sacred cow.
So as the years progressed, I dive deeper into my own faith investigating more in depth.
Which is the accurate position?
You wake up with 40,000 denominations on the planet.
I didn't engage with that many.
People throw that out with rhetorical meaning online against Christians.
I only had to deal with three or four.
When you go to public school and several other Christians come to you with their own flavor
of Kool-Aid telling you no no no you got to drink it this way or it needs to taste like
this.
That raises some questions as a very young teen know my version's got to be right.
And these little seeds of doubt are planted starting from our little Plato's cave with
shadows on the wall.
The shadows were as real as they could be and they were my shadows and my shadows were
the true ones and everyone else who didn't see the shadows my way.
Don't worry there's a lake of fire, a place of eternal conscious torment waiting for you.
But God does love you and how this contradiction somehow sat steel in my mind.
I don't know how I didn't blame God in my own worldview for the atrocity of eternal
conscious torment in hell.
I just somehow was able to make sense of it or allow it to be.
And as I progressed through the various denominations I'd come across Ravi Zacharias Christian
apologist who claimed to have engaged the bigger world of religions writing writing
books about Jesus among other gods which I read as a young teen and I thought this Jesus
is so unique and so special.
Watched him, William Lane Craig, Lee Strobel and many other apologist tackle these other
people from different positions and of course we win.
We always have.
Just like America, just like my father.
It was as the years go by that I realized my own suffering and my own issues didn't
match up with my beliefs.
I suffered with severe cognitive dissonance for years while struggling with my own addictions,
real life situations, eventually having to face the mirror and really think and seriously
ask the question, am I right?
Is Jesus really the only way?
Will people really go to hell for not believing in him?
I had struggled with understanding the end times, what they call eschatology, the study
of last things and I really thought I had come close to realizing Jesus said some things
that 99% of the church 99 are just oblivious to.
He was expecting, according to the gospels, if you take those as his words, he expected
the end to happen soon.
Christians have several ways to get around this, wiggling their way out of serious damning
claims.
Well, he was a conditional claim as long as the church did what they were supposed to
do, just like the Old Testament Israel, ignoring people like John Jay Collins and other several
academics who are have excellent scholarship showing in the Hellenistic period with apocalypticism,
a linear timeline and an end to human history was coming and it was determined, not some
relative conditional point of view that Christians seem to be trying to do.
The other one is they want to push the dates off, but this is well known, sabotage, several
apocalyptic movements have done this and when it fails, they just say it was a spiritual
thing, or we got the timing wrong, or it was never that person, that cult leader, their
religion that was wrong, no, no, no, no, no.
Their religion couldn't be man made.
Though several goddesses and ancient figurines that date way, way back into prehistory, several
gods, several beings, humans have probably worshiped or adored in some way, sacrificed
and paid homage or honored way before Jesus.
And I started discovering this and I thought, how selfish, how selfish have I really been
that I've been ignoring everyone else's deities, everyone else's particular belief systems in
favor of my own?
Once you pop that bubble of realizing, wow, it's not only are there so many other beliefs
and that there are so many beliefs within this belief that we call Christianity and
they cannot agree and in fact, damn each other for believing differently about the beliefs
of Jesus.
And you go back into the earliest days of Christianity and see the strife amongst themselves,
the division between Christians, so much so that the Horizoologist had to damn and condemn
several very popular, motivated and I would just say sincere Christians like Marcian and
others, Valentinius, Gnostic type Christians who were really ready to die for their beliefs
just as much as the Horizoologist and other martyrs.
Yet, we just somehow have the truth in our particular one, everyone's right in their
own eyes.
On top of that and the several world religions, I then started to discover, hold on, Jesus
is not like this unique one deity out of nowhere, this deity seems to be in put together
almost like a Lego, like a Lego box full of pieces and there are several of those pieces
that look not that they're stolen, several polemics online against Christians coming
from atheist act like they stole or they're stilling.
Now if we were in today's time and you had to go give an exam and Jesus pops up, we have
several other figures, you would say there's definitely some borrowing taking place, maybe
a little from Asclepius, maybe a little bit from Dionysus, maybe a little from the Caesars,
Romulus with his ascension.
There are several people and deities that come to mind that may have played a significant
role in that development and creation of what we see in the Gospels and Acts.
Hell, I'll go a step further and say even with what we see in Paul, Paul has eyewitnesses
supposedly, so did the Caesars, so did Romulus.
Their eyewitnesses are more reliable, more believable than the Caesars, than Romulus.
For reading these ancient texts, I guess you'd just say I became a detective.
I sincerely wondered if I was in a court of law and I was able to read this ancient literature,
would I really rest my whole life on putting someone behind bars based on ancient literature
never meeting the people, not even knowing who really wrote this.
We have someone who says that, hey I'm Paul and they wrote this letter, I mean you really
got a lot at stake, is it really worth putting all of this on the line for something that
looks highly mythical, legendary?
Several contradictions within this material.
We don't know who the authors really are and it started to go, there's so many gods
floating around.
What the heck makes me think this one's true?
You can't get the timing of the end right.
Failure.
Failed apocalyptic profit, just like several academics say.
Very mythical and legendary material in this, very contradictory amongst itself.
Why would I think this is divine?
And I get it, people read this stuff with allegory, so did the Greeks with their own myths.
They read those as allegories too.
They didn't like seeing Zeus come down raping women to impregnate them, no.
They started reading them as allegories.
And some people said, hey, historically some of this stuff doesn't make sense, origin
even said.
It's better to just read this stuff with a meaning behind the text.
David Friedrich Strauss also tried to do that.
So I guess what I'm doing is I'm just simply trying to say, get out of your little bubble,
look at the bigger world, and find out how small we are, and find out how small this
one religion really is.
Sure, it's grown.
That's what happens when you enforce and you proselytize under the condemnation of hell
and under the power of political power over two millennia.
Jesus pops up 2000 years ago with so many older gods.
Osiris has a much longer record in history as a deity.
There are many other deities.
And you can call this some fallacy as if we need to investigate.
That's why I brought up some of the reasons why we should be questioning these things.
Myth vision really does dive deep into the material for you to see.
But is it really, really true?
Like it actually happened and all these others didn't?
That's really wild.
I think any honest, sincere inquiry is going to cause someone to at least be agnostic and
at least say, I'm not sure.
I believe because I have faith.
You know, the faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.
I hope for this, but I don't I don't have the evidence of it.
And if you count the New Testament as evidence, then you're taking away from faith by that
definition.
Just because you're reading this literature doesn't make that more evidence toward its
truth.
They're just texts telling you things and we don't know how any of that can be proven
at all.
None of the miracles said in it can actually be proven.
None of the claims of these things in there are provable.
And I once hook, line and sinker drank the Kool-Aid and believed every single drop of
what was said in there.
It was ingrained in me.
It was indoctrinated in me.
Well, maybe we should reverse the rules and start to stretch our minds and break down those
walls that divide us by religious categories, by the way we look, by the way we dress by
the way that our skin color is by our culture, our language, our identity, our gender, all
of these different things that we have done for millennia.
But we've never taken the time to break those down on the level that we're doing today.
Yeah, it's a new day.
Yeah, the unknown can be scary, but I hope we can start seeing each other just as humans
and start loving each other without having the dogma that we've had from the ancient
ancestors passed down to us.
I'm not trying to condemn them.
They did the best they knew how at the time.
Let's do the best we know how with the evidence and information we have today and never forget.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
