10 Dying and Rising Gods Including Jesus
We're going to make Jesus number one because my whole purpose in this video is to show
you Jesus' death, burial, resurrection, ascension is not an uncommon thing in the ancient world
when gods or divine figures who are being worshipped are in the scene.
The zeitgeist of the era was full of superstitions and mythologies that were developing.
People believed in these things all the time.
I'm going to be reading from Dr. Richard Carrier's article and I hope you will go and
read it yourself and follow up with his hyperlinks to see the source material for yourself.
All of this literature is amazing, so I will be skimming through his article as I read
it because it's so long, but it's full of great stuff.
The name of his article is Dying and Rising Gods.
It's pagan guys get over it.
Number one is Jesus.
Born of a virgin, does miracles, lives his life, dies, crucified, buried in a tomb.
After three days and three nights, just as Jonah and he's spit up and of course in this
particular one, he resurrects and ascends on high.
Number two, Osiris.
A lot can be said about Osiris, so let me read some and then leave the rest for you
to read yourself.
Generally does Plutarch say Osiris returned to life and was resurrected?
Exact terms for resurrection on Isis and Osiris 35.
See his discussion on the empty tomb and also describe his physically returning to earth
after his death, but the physical resurrection of Osiris's corpse is explicitly described
in pre-Christian pyramid inscriptions.
Osiris was also resurrected according to Plutarch on the third day and died during a full moon
just like Christ.
Passover occurs during the full moon and in Plutarch on Isis and Osiris 39 and 42, Osiris
dies on the 17th of Arthur, the concluding day of the full moon and is raised on the
19th two days later, thus three days inclusively just like Jesus.
Jesus dies on a full moon, Osiris dies on a full moon and when you look carefully at
this on Isis and Osiris, chapter 42, it talks about the 17th day and Pythagoreans have this
weird number of 17 and they have a certain superstition about the number.
I want to tell you something interesting about this in the Gospels.
The number 17 is a perfect triangular number, 1 plus 2 plus 3 plus 4 plus 5 plus 6 plus
7 plus 8 plus 9 plus 10 plus 11 plus 12 plus 13 plus 14 plus 15 plus 16 plus 17 equals
153.
When Jesus says to cast the net on the other side and then catch all these fish in the
net, they capture 153 fish.
This story also looks like Pythagoras' story.
This are my notes.
Plutarch writes that Osiris came to Horus from the other world and exercised and trained
him for battle and taught him lessons and then Osiris consorted with Isis after his
death and she became the mother of Hippocrates.
It's hard to get more explicit than that.
Contrary to Eremen, Dr. Carrier and Eremen are going back and forth because Eremen doesn't
believe Osiris came back in the flesh.
He spends the entire next paragraph describing, for example, I have come to thee that I may
revivify thee, that I may reassemble for thee thy bones, that I may collect for thee thy
flesh, that I may assemble for thee thy dismembered limbs, raise thyself up king Osiris, thou
livest pyramid text, raise thyself up, shake off thy dust, remove that dirt which is on
thy face, loose thy bandages.
It's clearly a resurrection on earth in the same body.
This idea that we see that also is very similar to Jesus and you have to, you really common
sense begs you to have to ask yourself where did these ideas come from?
They did not come in a vacuum bubble of Christianity.
This stuff's been old, ideas just floating around in the ancient world.
Number three, Dionysus.
Before I even read anything that he has to say, I highly recommend reading Dennis McDonald's
work on Dionysus and the fourth gospel, the Dionysian gospel is the name of the book and
his work on Greek literature and its influence in the New Testament.
Dionysus, also popularly known as Bacchus, had many different tales told of him, just
as Osiris did, but in one popularly known, he was killed by his being torn apart as a
baby.
This is written in Justin Martyr apology, Plutarch on Isis and Osiris, Diodorus' Library
of History.
He was then resurrected by a human woman, Simile, conceiving a new body for him in her
womb after drinking a magic slushie made from bits of his corpse.
This is a literal resurrection again, just by an elaborate mechanism.
The God definitely dies and then returns to life by acquiring the same kind of body
he once had, assembled and regrown from parts of his old one.
In this version of this myth, he is a full God, son of Zeus and personophy.
But still mortal, capable of being killed by dismemberment, like a vampire.
He then is reborn a demigod from the womb of a fully mortal human woman.
He was the savior God central to the Bacchic Mysteries, one of the most widely known and
celebrated in the western world at the time.
Zeus baptized into his cult, received eternal life in paradise, and just like Christians
1 Corinthians 15, Dionysians could even baptize themselves on behalf of the deceased loved
ones and thus rescue those already dead.
Zalmoxis
Zalmoxis was also a resurrected savior, Greeks making fun of the Thracian cult worshipping
him made up the polemic that he didn't really die, he just hid in a cave and thus pretended
to have resurrected from the dead.
But this polemic tells us the Thracians did believe Zalmoxis had died and rose from the
dead and appeared to disciples on earth to prove it.
His disciples then believed they would benefit from his power to bring them into eternal life
and paradise.
In a book that became standard reading in the schools, Herodotus, which you really need
to get a copy of, talks about reports that Zalmoxis fed the leaders among his countrymen
in a hall and taught them that neither he nor his guest nor any of their descendants
would ever die, but that they would go to a place where they would live forever and have
all good things and then vanished underground for three years while the Thracians wished
him back and mourned him for dead and then in the fourth year he appeared to the Thracians
and thus they came to believe what he had told them, thus using his own resurrection
to prove theirs.
Though I do wonder if it was actually three days Carrier says and not years as that was
the case in the resurrection cults of Osiris Inanna and Adonis as we'll see shortly.
The story entails these cultists believed in their savior gods of bodily death and resurrection
because that's the only way the Greek polemic Herodotus is citing would make sense as it
imagines Zalmoxis appearing in some same body and visiting his followers to verify he was
alive again and not merely appearing in visions nor as a ghost, accordingly, Kelsus, the earliest
known critic of Christianity, included Zalmoxis in his list of resurrected deities.
Read Origin Against Kelsus
Number 5 Inanna
Inanna is the earliest known resurrected god.
For her a clear cut death and resurrection tell exist on clay tablets inscribed in Sumeria
over a thousand years before Christianity, plainly describing her humiliation, trial,
execution and crucifixion and her resurrection three days later.
After she is stripped naked and judgment is pronounced against her, Inanna is turned
into a corpse and the corpse was hung from an L and after three days and three nights
her assistants ask for her corpse and resurrect her by feeding her the water and food of life.
And Inanna arose according to what had been her plan all along because she knew her father
would surely bring me back to life.
These are her words and the story quotations are from the tablet adopting the translation
of Samuel Noah Kramer in History Begins at Sumer.
This cult continued to be practiced into the Christian period, Tyre being a major center
of her worship.
By then there is some evidence her resurrection tell was shifted to her consort Tamus, one
of the several resurrected deities the Greeks called Adonis.
Number 6, Adonis.
Adonis was the title of at least one if not several resurrected savers by the time Christianity
began.
Sometimes equated with Tamus or possibly one confused with Tamus but either way certainly
a resurrected god.
Medinger details this in the study of the riddle of resurrection, dying and rising
gods in the ancient Near East, includes discussion of the pre-Christian manuscript of a private
letter in which a man likens his ability to survive several deadly uprisings to Tamus's
ability to always return from the dead, which would certainly suggest Tamus had by then
become the center of his own resurrection cult.
This is the same god for whose death even women in Jerusalem mourned, Ezekiel 8, 14-15.
There is no evidence he remained dead that letter alone attest it was commonly known
he returned to life.
And in the third century AD, the Christian scholar Origen says in his comments on Ezekiel
explaining the very same passage that Tamus was still worshiped in his own day under the
title of Adonis.
And as such, certain rites of initiation are conducted for him, first that they weep for
him, since he had died, second that they rejoice for him because he has risen from the dead.
This is confirmed a century later by Jerome's commentary on Ezekiel.
Recent pre-Christian finds attest that indeed a period of rejoicing followed mourning the
death of Tamus which matches Origen's description.
We similarly have it described by a pagan author either Lucian or someone else of the
second century AD who describes national ceremonies of mourning for Adonis' death that are followed
the next day by celebrations of his returning to life and ascending into outer space killed
by a beast.
He becomes a dead person, then he is buried and mourned and the next day they proclaim
he lives and he ascends.
Number 7 Romulus Romulus was another widely known pre-Christian resurrected God, not a
personal savior so far as we know, but a national one in his exalted form named Carinius.
According to ancient sources, this demigod was a pre-existent divine being who became
incarnate in order to establish a kingdom conceiving a body for himself within the womb
of a virgin, possibly by sexual means it is unclear who was murdered by the Roman senate
which is the Roman equivalent of the Sanhedrin, after which his corpse vanishes, the sun goes
out and people flee in fear and mourn his death.
Then he returns to earth alive again, resurrected in a new divine body to preach his gospel
to the disciples, Proculus before departing to rule from on high.
By some accounts Romulus ascended directly to heaven and his mortal body burned away
in the sky, but either way his mortal body dies.
I have finished my mortal life, he tells Proculus Dionysus says, and he returns to
preach in an immortal body, then ascends heaven just like Jesus, 1 Corinthians 15, 35-50.
Our fullest account comes from Plutarch, life of Romulus, 27-28, writing at the end of
the first century AD, but Romulus' death and return to life are attested in numerous
pre-christian sources.
Number 8.
Asclepius
Asclepius was also a popular resurrected god.
Christian apologists want to try and deny this by saying Asclepius merely likes Caesar,
rose to heaven like a ghost upon his death, but that isn't what the ancient worshippers
said.
Celsus reported that a great many Greek and barbarians claim they have frequently seen
and still see no mere phantom, but Asclepius himself, origin against Celsus 3-24.
Asclepius was killed by lightning strike and buried Hesiod fragments, 125 Euripides, Cicero
on the nature of the gods, origin against Celsus 3-23.
He was then restored from death to becoming a living god.
As Ovid says, by a god he was turned into a bloodless corpse, and then from a corpse
became a god, twice renewing his fate.
That this was regarded a resurrection is fully confirmed by the narrative.
Zeus killed Asclepius for resurrecting the dead.
But when the slain's father Apollo complained, Zeus relented and restored Asclepius back
to life.
This time as an immortal god, Ovid thus remarks that Zeus did for his son's sake that which
he forbade be done.
In other words, Zeus forbade raising the dead, but made an exception for Asclepius.
It is thus understood that Zeus rose as Asclepius from the dead.
He had been a corpse, so he would have remained.
But by the miracle of God, now was alive, eternal and immortal, supernaturally powerful,
just like Jesus.
Number 9, Baal
Baal was one of the most ancient of resurrected gods.
His death is probably the same mourned under the name Haddad Rimon in Zechariah 1211.
But whether or not in pre-christian text, Baal's corpse is found by a knot.
So in his myth, the god is definitely dead.
One text even outright says, and the gods will know that you are dead.
And multiple gods actually declare him dead.
He is then buried and funeral rites performed.
There are then clear references to Baal's resurrection.
In fact, his returning to life and then living forever are used as analogies in pre-christian
immortality spells.
Though this god was then not yet a personal savior, but a metaphor for communal agricultural
salvation, that was prior to Hellenization.
He was transformed into one of the many personal savior gods of the region we hear of at the
dawn of Christianity, but are allowed to know nothing about, owing to the medieval Christian
destruction of pagan evidence.
For example, Hippolytus devoted two entire chapters of his refutation of all heresies
to the mystery cults and their savior deities.
Curiously, those are the only two books wholly destroyed.
Go figure, what were the Medieval's trying to hide?
What did they not want us to read?
I'll let your imagination ponder.
Number 10, Hercules.
Hercules, or also known as Melchart, is another of the most ancient of resurrected deities
akin to Baal in both his origins and possible future co-option in later Hellenistic mystery
cults.
His legend became fused with that of Hercules, centuries before Christianity and attested
by authors of the Roman period.
Another person wrote that Hercules was killed by Typhon, but Lalus brought a quell to him
and having put it close to him and ritually burning it, he smelt it and came to life again.
When Josephus attests to ongoing celebrations of resurrecting Hercules in Jewish antiquities,
mistranslated in Winston, see Medinger.
In both accounts, this is explicitly said to be the story of the Tyrion Hercules, which
we know meant Melchart, whose base of worship was Tyr.
Diadores tells another story of Hercules killed by a fire, dying of poison.
He's burned on a pyre because his bones then vanished.
When Lalus tried to collect them, the story goes, it was concluded Hercules was resurrected
and ascended to heaven.
The supposition of resurrection upon the vanishing of a corpse was not only a common motif in
antiquity, it is essentially the story told of Jesus.
You could take a deep dive into that.
The addition of appearance narratives to steal the deal also accompanies many of these tales,
Romulus for example, and there may have been such for Hercules, but in any event, it was
clearly believed he had died and been raised from the dead and then ascended to heaven with
divine power just like Jesus.
Read the rest of Carrier's article.
It is so worth reading.
I ask anyone interested in seeing the comparisons.
Here are 10 dying and rising gods, including Jesus, to show you there's nine more other
than this one.
And we used to say this one was the one true one and everyone else is wrong.
I say that's a bunch of baloney and anyone who's honest shouldn't hold double standards
for other gods and their claims over Jesus.
I say they're all outdated mythology and understanding of the world.
Even though I love myth, I love learning about these stories and how people believe like this
and why.
What is that porous line between the dead and the living and why do they come up with these
ideas and believe this way?
If you enjoyed this work, please go check out Dr. Carrier's article, get a book or two
of his.
I really appreciate what he does.
You can also support us here at MythVision so we can keep bringing you this content.
Become a patron, join the YouTube membership program.
We have a thanks button here in the bottom of this video that you can click and donate
that way.
I have one-time donation options as well.
You can email me if you have any questions, please don't stop at one and recognize these
are all myths.
Never forget, we are MythVision.
