Ladies and gentlemen, I just edited a full course by Dr. James D. Tabor on the Dead Sea Scrolls,
and today we're discussing what is it, James? The top four parallels to Jesus with the Dead Sea Scrolls?
You know, whenever people even see the title of the course, you know, there's the Dead Sea Scrolls
and there's Jesus. But Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls, Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls, we're not
doing that. I don't think that's actually a valid position. But why would you pair those? And I was
just going to give you the top four reasons. And what do you think? I'm excited. I look, I edited
this thing. And I know what kind of masterpiece you've put into this. In fact, I'm rewatching it now,
James. And it's remarkable how deep you go into the history. And what are the implications of this?
So first of all, I might ask the question, like, why are we paralleling this to Jesus before we
open this can of worms? Okay, let me start by saying every one of these parallels, these four
we're going to cover now, you could not say about any other groups that we know from ancient Judaism.
So everybody's heard of the Pharisees. That's in the New Testament. Everybody's heard of the
Sadducees. The Sadducees and the Pharisees do not share any of these. Now, if the Essenes is the
group that wrote the scrolls, and there's a whole lecture on that, it's, we're not going to do that
today. But, you know, maybe you could parallel them partly from that. But our only account of the
Essenes is Josephus. And he doesn't mention any of these four, isn't? And there's, I'm going to give
you the top four. And Josephus is describing the Essenes that he doesn't mention any of these.
It doesn't mean he's not describing this group, but it means that he doesn't want you to know,
because he's probably trying to protect them. Remember, Josephus writes after the Jewish War,
total disaster for the country, the temple, the city of Jerusalem is brought down. And this group
is scattered. And I think he likes them. He admires them. He says in his biography that when he
was a teenager, 17, 18 years old, that he went in the desert for three years and studied with
a desert prophet or figure. So he probably has some sympathy, although he's gone on in his life,
even though it was the Emperor of Rome, this bastion and so forth. So, you know, you're ready for
the top four. They can be in any order, but I'm going to start with the one that I think shocked
you the most, because we were talking about this very recently. When I say New Covenant,
and you hold up a Bible, and it's got Old Testament, New Testament, and you open it up,
and the Apostle Paul talks about, we are ministers of a New Covenant. If you think about Jewish
literature before the time of Jesus, guess what? There is no group that I know of in any record,
say from the exile, 6th century BC, all the way down to the destruction of Jerusalem in 70.
There's no group that says, oh, the New Covenant's here. We're the people of the New Covenant.
This group calls themselves the New Covenanters. Wow. Think about that.
Now, we date them about 150 BCE. We can't get an exact date on when their teacher,
and we're going to talk about their teacher, flourished. But, you know, basically, I like to
say 150 years before Jesus, there's a group that is talking about, we are the people of the New Covenant.
Now, that comes from Jeremiah 31, verse 31. It's easy to remember. 31, 31. And what does it say?
That God will make a New Covenant with the house of Israel in the house of Judah,
and then it goes on to describe this very ideal time, putting the Torah on the heart and so forth.
Flash forward, and what do we get? Jesus of Nazareth coming. He takes a cup,
we're told, and says, this is the cup of the New Covenant at one of the ceremonial meals. We read
about that in the Gospel of Mark. I already mentioned Paul says, we're the people of the New Covenant.
So, I consider that one of the top, you know, among the top four that we want to cover today.
New Covenanters. So, the groups are both saying that, but it's not a matter, I don't think, of
the Jesus movement, or the John the Baptist Jesus movement, I like to call it, or the John the Baptist
Jesus James movement, copying, you know, my students always raise their hand and go.
So, Dr. Taver, did the Jesus folks copy the Dead Sea Scrolls? You know, like,
you know what I mean by copy? Yeah, like, oh my God, that's not your idea. You're doing what those
people did, like little kids, you copied, not like that at all. But they are reading the same texts,
they're calculating the time of the end, lots of groups during the period before,
during, and after Jesus, and this goes back to the Maccabees about 150 BCE. They think they're in
the time of the end, so we get these apocalyptic kinds of ideas in some of our literature.
So, New Covenant, wow, they're both saying this is it, this is the New Covenant,
which means the Kingdom of God is very near. Now, another one that connects to that,
if you open up the Gospel of Mark, and we've got a course on the Gospel of Mark,
a lot of people have taken it that will be hearing this video, you'll remember this,
it opens with John the Baptist, and you basically want to know, well, who are you,
or what are you doing? It's the way the Gospel of Mark opens, and what does he say?
I'm the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. So, Christians know
that, it's in Handel's Messiah, it's in all kinds of literature and images, and I heard it all my
life growing up, going to Sunday school, I'm sure you heard it too, when you had associations with
the churches over the years. You know, John the Baptist preparing the way in the wilderness,
well, that's a prophecy from the Book of Isaiah. So, we open up the Dead Sea Scrolls,
and the first document we study in the course is the Community Rule. That's what scholars call it,
but you know what, it's really called Seric Hayakad, which means the way or the right way of the
community, the order literally of the community. So, this is what we're all about. It's like saying,
what are you people all about? What are you doing? Describe yourself to us, and what do they say?
This is the time for preparing the way in the wilderness, as it is written, prepare the way
in the wilderness, and it says they've gone out by the Dead Sea, and that's actually the technical
word in Hebrew in Isaiah 40 verse 3. It uses the word desert, but it also uses Aravah, and Aravah
is geographical. I could get in a taxi at Tel Aviv Airport in Israel and tell a cab driver,
could you take me to the Aravah? You know what he would say? You want to go to the Dead Sea, Dr.
Tabor? It's the Dead Sea. So, John the Baptist is up and down the Jordan River. We see that in the
Gospel of Mark. We open the very first scroll that tells us about this group and what they're all
about, like their charter basically, and they say it's time to prepare the way in the desert,
and so they've actually moved out there. So, what a parallel. Now, the other two I'm going to mention
are more broad, but when I describe them to you, you'll see they're still very, very specific.
What about apocalyptic messianic? Now, we know that there are apocalyptic figures during the
first century B.C. and the first century C.E. or A.D. Josephus lists 13 of them, including Jesus.
That's one of the people we think he mentions. It's not as though no one was apocalyptic.
They're figures that are apocalyptic, but as far as the literature of a movement that you can
actually study and say what are the texts that they covered and what is their idea, the key is the
word way. There are a lot of Christians that have started reading the New Testament or maybe just
growing up in the church, and if I say the way, the Book of Acts uses it in a very strange manner.
I start to say a very strange way. Why? Because it'll say, and so and so persecuted the way.
What do you mean? What way? It's like it's used as a proper name for the group.
And guess what? This group also says we are preparing the way and others where the way
prepares out in the desert, and they have the same kind of idea of that language. Others,
we're people of the way, and the Jesus people are saying we're people of the way,
but they're separated by over a hundred years. So various individuals might have been,
you know, talking about the time is near, the time is at hand, surely we're near the kingdom,
because they are all reading the Book of Daniel, and there is a prophecy in the Book of Daniel
that you really can't stretch out more than about 500 years. Literally it's a 490-year period,
Daniel 9, and Christians try to trace it to Jesus, and the Dead Sea Scroll group traced it to
their teacher, which we'll talk about at some point, but they're all kind of thinking this is the
time. Josephus even says in Book 6 of the Jewish War, when he's talking about the revolts that took
place, that he witnessed that he was even a part of, initially, till he went over with the Romans,
because he realized the Jews are going to get defeated, and he didn't want more bloodshed.
He says that what most incited them to revolt against the Romans was an oracle in our holy
books, that about this time, God would raise up a messiah, a ruler, an anointed one, and so he's
even witnessing that it was these textual expectations. Well, let me tell you, the Dead
Sea Scroll group are people of the Book. They're pouring over these prophecies,
and they're trying to figure them out, and when we go to the New Testament, what do we find?
It's written after and retrospect, but they're going back to Jesus, and they're saying,
oh, this is the time for this, this is the time for that, look how this was fulfilled,
look how that is near, and finally Paul, in one of his letters, 1 Corinthians,
in chapter seven, he says, the appointed time of the end has grown very short,
and he even tells people, maybe you shouldn't even get married. When Jesus covers that in Mark 13,
we covered it in the Mark Course, he says, this generation will not pass till all these things
are fulfilled. So you get the idea as you're reading Mark, that it's almost breathless,
you know, immediately this and immediately that, and it leads up to that climax that you're going
to see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven, which is again Daniel 7, and that's when
the kingdom of God is set up, and all the kingdoms of the world are overthrown. So this group expects
to see that, but guess what? What they most expected never happened. They thought they were
going to defeat the Greeks, and defeat the Romans, and set up the kingdom of God, and the Romans came
in in 63 BC, and for the next few centuries, you know, there's no independence. In fact,
there's no independent Jewish state until modern times. So apocalyptic is one thing, but when you
separate it by 150 years, and you've got another group prior to the Jesus movement, saying some
of the same things. So apocalyptic, people of the way, new covenant, messianic. You say, well,
what do you mean messianic? I mean, that's just very generic. Well, not for this group. They believe
in a teacher and two messiahs. That's not in the New Testament, is it? Well, do you remember in
Mark again? Isn't it interesting how we keep quoting Mark here? These are very related. In the
Gospel of Mark, two of the apostles come up, James and John, the sons of Zebedee, right? They're the
fishermen, guys, and they come up to Jesus, and they're just headed for Jerusalem, and they think
the kingdom's going to come, and they're going to take over, and later they look at the temple,
and they say, look at all these buildings, as if to say, very soon we'll be occupying these
things. They're very excited. You knew what they asked? Lord, we know you're the master, but
could one of us sit at your right hand and one at the left when we come into the kingdom?
And Jesus rebukes them, because they're arguing already about, you know, am I on first? Are you
on second? Who's on first? This kind of thing. And so you get this idea in the Gospel of Mark
that's very, very similar. Okay, you go to the scrolls, and what do we find? The teacher, as they
call them. And it's usually translated teacher of righteousness, but it really means the right
teacher, the correct teacher, like there are a lot of teachers, but this is the true teacher.
He's also called the unique teacher. So their teacher, they believe will be eventually accompanied
by two other messiahs, one a priest and one Davidic. Now the Christians later put all that
together. But in the Gospel of Mark, you can see that they're already thinking about three figures,
three messiahs, because the guy in the middle is anointed of the spirit. That's the teacher
in the Dead Sea Scrolls. And they talk about, he's the teacher until the coming of the messiahs of
Aaron and Israel. That's the priest and the king. So apocalyptic, messianic expectations,
people of the way, new covenant. In the Course, we thoroughly explain all of those. We read the
text. This is a textually based Course. When we're studying this, I don't just get up and talk to you
and tell you all these things. I'm summarizing it now. We've got our nose in the book. We read the
scrolls, and I give you copies of the main things that we cover. And also we recommend that you get
the book that has all the scrolls, because I want this to be a springboard for everybody that takes
it. You know, maybe you've never read the scrolls, or you've heard of the scrolls, or you've looked
out on once, but you wonder like, well, how would you even begin? Imagine somebody starting to study
the New Testament, and they'd barely even know who Jesus is. Maybe they've heard his name, but they
don't know anything about it. How would you start? Where would you start? That's kind of how people
are with the Dead Sea Scrolls. It just seems so much. You know, it's a big, thick book of 600 pages.
We can't cover all 600 pages, but we cover the main text. This Course will put you on your own
feet so that you can go and do your own advanced study, because you'll have your orientation to
the overall view, the chronology, the lay of the land, what was going on, and so forth. So this is
the springboard course I'm telling you. Maybe in the future we'll do Dead Sea Scrolls 2 for the
advanced people, who knows, where we can do all kinds of things with that. I've been working on
these scrolls for like 40 years, and there's just so much, and I put a lot of it into the course
in a summary way. This course is a college-level course. Don't let that scare you away if you
think, well, I don't know about a college-level course. I don't mean some esoteric ivory tower
course. I'm talking about the level of material and the way we approach it in an academic,
historical way, learning the facts, learning the background, and so on. So just with those four, Derek,
I think we've already got a pretty tight case. You know, here's the Dead Sea Scrolls. I got my
four fingers here, and here's the Jesus movement. So they're like this, and we're putting them
together, and all of a sudden we go, well, now are they the same? We'll take the course because
we're going to explore differences as well, and even differences that they understand some of
these four slightly differently, but the pattern and the basic matrix is there. So that's the point
of the course, Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls. Compare and contrast, try to sort it out.
I hope that people sign up because they have questions just from watching this. I have questions
talking with you now that I know that we could cover during a Zoom call. That's the other advantage
about taking the courses. We'll be able to talk with you in a Zoom call, very personal, one-on-one
kind of thing. Well, it's a big group, but you know what I mean, like it's not just you lecturing,
and there's so many interesting questions that come just from that. I really appreciate you
I really appreciate you giving us these little sneak peek tidbits. I've been redoing the course
myself. It is very deep, and when I say deep, I don't mean it's so deep that you don't understand it.
No, you're very thorough is my point, and you explain what you mean and what you say and how.
You have books out, you have text out, you have images that come up. You're very, very thorough,
so I hope people will take the course. This also just on a fundamental level, not only helps educate
people Dr. Tabor, but I feel like it also encourages scholars like you who have retired,
you know, and who are still wanting to educate. I think you're going to till the day you're gone
want to teach and want to give people the knowledge you've learned all these years,
and so I hope people will take advantage of this opportunity to encourage you to keep
teaching by taking your courses. So thank you. You know, what do I love the most and what do I
miss the most about full-time teaching? I taught for 43 years at three different major universities.
You know what I miss the most? The students, and I still have students all over the world and students,
you know, that keep up with me and so on, but I get excited about this, and it's true of anything
that you study. When you really get excited and you're really into it, what do you want to do most
of all? You want to share it and talk about it. And I know from the Mark course, Derek, you are at
some of those Zoom meetings, and we might have 200 people because it's not a webinar, like you said.
Everybody can come into the room and, you know, we're polite. We raise our hands and we talk and so
forth, but it's not just me giving another lecture. We're meeting and we do field your questions and
you can have responses and so forth. And the thing about that is that builds a community of people
you know. I started feeling in the Mark course like I knew a couple of hundred people by name,
and, you know, then you have email contact with me. You have all kinds of other ways of learning
more. People write me all the time and say, well, what's the next book I should read? I took this,
but what about this? And we'll be glad to guide you in that. Derek, you as a whole with your channel,
and that's why I like working with you. You've created an amazing community out in the world.
It's international, it's worldwide, it's all ages, and you have brought to the public more than
anyone I know on YouTube a chance to hear from various scholars that have spent decades and
decades working on this or that aspect with publishing books and so forth, and these courses
that you've been offering. I just think it's a fantastic thing that you're doing, and I'm honored
to be part of it, and I just love my students. I really do. I get such pleasure out of
people learning and getting excited about these things. And that's what I love about working
with you is that a lot of scholars are hesitant on going out, having a show face. Some of them
barely, they got to drag themselves to go to a lecture at a university, whereas you're trying
to take the stuff that you know how hard it was to learn and to gather an insight, the languages,
the sources, primary sources, digging in, dealing with the politics of the struggles of ideas and
stuff. You know better than anyone that I've ever talked to on how difficult that is to traverse
the world on those things, and you're bringing them down to anyone and everyone who has the
interest in wanting to know it. I feel like we're having a new reformation on scholarship here.
So I'm thankful to be part of it, and I'm glad that you are as well, and people can personally
get to know you through this. So I hope people sign up. Yeah, and one thing I'll add to that,
there's a big move in the universities for what we're calling now public scholarship. I was chair
of a department for 10 years, and it doesn't mean you go pop and you water down your standards or
anything like that. But more and more universities are encouraging faculty to go to the scholarly
meetings to do the academic papers, but to also speak to the public, do radio interviews, do
television, speak to large community groups. And I'm seeing that more and more with all of my
colleagues. And I think it's just a wonderful move, and YouTube is part of that. It's a big part of
that. There are a lot of amazing things on YouTube now that did not even exist 10 years ago. I think
it's really exciting. And to keep that going, people who are signing up are helping that. So
just thank you to the viewer as well. And James, thank you for your time. Thank you, Derek.
