She did the Joseph Smith in a hat thing.
You should not worship Joseph Smith.
I was like, we don't, we don't worship Joseph Smith.
We totally did.
Like looking back at it when you're chanting,
follow the prophet, follow the prophet.
And it's like really creepy and kids are singing this.
Yeah, we worship Joseph Smith.
You make an oath and you use these hand motions
that you will slit your throat and cut out your bowels
if you ever divulge the secrets of the temple.
I found out about the book of Abraham
for people who don't know or maybe haven't seen it
on your channel before.
It's this book of scripture that Joseph Smith got
from a traveling mummy show.
You heard that right.
A traveling mummy show came through New York
and he said, I want to buy a mummy.
That's what I'm going to do with the church's money.
So he buys a mummy inside it.
There is a scroll and he goes, well,
since I have the power of God, I will translate this.
He translates this, what he called reformed Egyptian,
which isn't a real thing, spoiler alert.
They believe that black people were bad in the pre-existence
and that's why they were cursed with dark skin in this life.
The Joseph Smith and his poor wives, 34 wives or something,
they still don't even know exactly how many.
Mother, daughter combos, sister combos,
women who are already married.
I was just like, this church is nuts, blood oaths.
An angel with a flaming sword appeared to me
and said that if you don't accept polygamy,
then he will smite you, Emma.
And he will also smite me.
And he used this with multiple women.
He would go to them and coerce them
because most of them didn't want to marry Joseph Smith.
Welcome to Myth Vision.
I'm your host, Eric Lambert.
We're dealing with the cult of Mormonism,
the Mormon church and the LDS, if you will,
Latter-day Saints, they go as.
And today my guest is Shilis and Sola.
Welcome to Myth Vision.
Thank you so much for having me.
It's a privilege.
Thank you.
From time to time, we'll do ex-cult members
or escaping from the cult kind of interviews.
And I noticed that you have a YouTube channel,
Colts to Consciousness,
where you interview people who've left the cults as well.
Can you tell us a little bit about your channel
before we delve into your particular story?
Yeah, absolutely.
So as you mentioned, I was raised in Mormonism,
Utah, born and raised,
very much in the bubble of the cult, if you will.
And after I left,
it took probably 10 years to actively deconstruct
and realize, oh, wow, that was a cult.
And I have some unwinding to do.
And there are some traumas
that I didn't realize were still affecting me
because Mormonism is kind of a sneaky cult
where they look bright and shiny,
but on the inside,
people are really going through a lot of turmoil.
So after I started deconstructing all of that,
I was like, I need to speak out about this.
I wanted to do my own podcast.
I was briefly with another podcast.
They went a different direction.
And that's when I was like, you know what?
I'm gonna start my own,
help other people realize the traumas,
provide a safe space for people to tell their stories.
And also just,
I think it helps when people can look at someone else's video
and not feel so alone in their struggles
and their traumas in their deconstruction.
So that's really the point of cults to consciousness,
finding that consciousness within yourself,
the awareness to realize something's going wrong
and the freedom to make your own decisions
and move forward and find a happier, healthier life.
Well, I hope everybody will subscribe to your YouTube channel
and support you on your journey.
I have been enlightened by some of your interviews
and really appreciate the kind of quality content
you're bringing and shedding light
on something that isn't, I guess it's growing.
The fad of exposing cults is growing more and more.
And sometimes what we want to label a cult or not a cult,
I tend to have a wider spectrum
in which I would say there are more categories
or more kind of groups that would fit
into this kind of harmful ideology.
But I want to ask you,
how bad is Mormonism in your estimation
now that you are out?
And then I want to get into your story,
but it's really an upfront question of,
do you feel a thousand times better now
and how bad is it?
That's really a tricky question.
And I will say it's relative to the people who are in it
because for, I guess, heterosexual straight white male,
it might be great.
You might love it because it was built for you.
But if you are someone who is transgender,
someone who is on the queer spectrum,
it's not built for you and it will hurt you a lot more.
So I will say base level,
I think everyone in some way is dealing with a lot of things
that they shouldn't be or they don't have to be
as far as the guilt and the shame goes,
but it can get really bad on the other end of the spectrum
where they were doing shock conversion therapy
to gay people at BYU.
In the 70s, 80s, I believe, maybe even 90s,
they are going to poor countries
and telling them the reason you're poor
is because you're not paying tithing,
which of course is not good
and can be really detrimental to some families.
So there is a range.
I will say my childhood fell on the happier side
and I didn't really realize the issues
until later as I mentioned,
but some people are on the really strict side
where they're not even allowed to drink Coke, for example,
or they're not allowed to even hang out
with people who aren't Mormon
and it gets a lot more culty on that end.
So I hope that kind of answers the question.
Yeah, I had two kids on a mission once,
became best buddies with me in my neighborhood
here in Washington state once
and I used to order pizza and give them out and do
and we would exchange our interpretations
on Bible scripture and they loved hanging out with me.
Yeah, so I'd have them cheat a little.
But Chalice, who are you?
What is your story?
Where do you come from
and can you give us the background
to your cult experience?
Sure, I mean, we could be here all day.
How much time do you have?
I think when it comes to my childhood,
I grew up in Utah as I mentioned
and it is very much this 1950s bubble.
I swear they haven't changed in 50 years.
It feels like a time machine when you go there.
Even the fashion is just behind.
Just a little bit to where you're like,
hmm, this is interesting.
They all kind of dress the same and look the same
and because Mormon settled Utah,
you have, and they were actually going overseas
to Europe to bring people over
and start their communities
with the polygamy and all of that.
You tend to have the white skin,
blonde hair, blue-eyed type of person
and I don't know how I fit into this my way.
But actually my ancestors were Mormon.
So my great, great, fourth great grandma
was the first woman to be baptized in England
and then came over as a pioneer
and so I got the Mormon stock in me.
So I'm like super apostate for leaving.
So my childhood was very,
it was very structured in a way like with modesty goes,
you can't show your shoulders, you can't show your knees.
It's not just a Mormon thing.
It happens in a lot of different high demand Christian groups.
I guess you could say the purity culture thing
was super, super strong,
not allowed to kiss a boy till you're 16.
It was kind of like an unofficial rule
but definitely a rule where I remember my first kiss,
I was 13 or 14 and I had this huge crush on this boy
and when he finally kissed me,
it was like a football game, right?
That's the only place we could rub shoulders
with the opposite sex because like you couldn't really
hang out with them, at least at that age.
And so I remember I had my first kiss
and immediately felt so much guilt and shame for it.
Like I was the worst center on the world
because they teach you that sex is a sin next to murder.
And it was such a weird place to be in
because I was extremely elated, I felt like I was floating.
But then on the other hand, I was like,
oh my gosh, I have to tell my bishop
or I have to tell my mom and I don't want to.
And that's crazy because my mom and I are so close.
And I was just terrified to tell her
because I didn't want her to be disappointed in me.
So that's kind of an example of where I was coming from
as far as the rules go and confessing to bishops
about stupid stuff that you should not have to worry about
as a kid, but just feeling that dread and the shame
which translated into my older life when I was 20
and eventually led me down the path of leaving Mormonism.
But that's much further down the road.
I feel like my first glimpse into real life
was when I moved to Portland, my senior year of high school
because I was desperately trying to be cool
and not be the quote Mormon kid from Utah.
And people are asking me these weird questions.
Like I can't believe you believe Joseph Smith
translated the Book of Mormon by putting his head
into a hat and I was like, I don't believe that.
That's just ex-Mormon propaganda.
That didn't happen.
Whatever are these people getting these lies from?
I would know I'm a Mormon and I just,
that was basically my tagline.
I would know I'm a Mormon, but the thing is
active Mormons don't know.
They don't know the true history of the church.
And the reason is because the church
actually hides it from its members
and it will give you a different version of history
to make you believe it because the real version
sounds crazy.
So, I mean, I don't know what you want me
to dive into a little bit more,
but that's kind of like an overview of,
I believed really weird stuff, but I also didn't know
I was believing the super weird stuff
and other people thought that I was weird,
but I was trying to be normal.
It's kind of like an overview.
I can relate and I think that's an interesting point.
You brought it up, so it's obviously important
that we focus on something here.
Other critics of the faith you held,
I had it too in high school.
I was very devout, very religious,
read my Bible at a public high school at lunch every day.
I mean, at least in my junior, senior year.
And I'd get this, you should just wait till you're old
because you're not gonna die.
Like you got a long time to enjoy your life,
then you can start reading your Bible and get all religious.
And I'd always say, we don't have tomorrow.
And I think, I was just like way ahead of my time
in terms of the way I would act
about the Bible and religion.
But to be honest, and having that open,
if you looked back when they were saying these things,
do you think those planted little seeds of doubt,
like where are they getting this from?
Or were you already sold?
This is just anti Mormon propaganda.
Did it ever get you to investigate further?
It did, yeah.
So I feel like a pivotal moment in my journey
is I was best friends with a Christian
and she came from a long line of pastors.
In fact, she got me to go to her church once and I walked in.
So if your viewers don't know,
Mormon church is so boring.
It is painstakingly boring.
You go to these super bland buildings.
I know everyone thinks those gorgeous temples are where we go.
No, no, no, only the worthy Mormons can go there.
They're normal churches.
They're everyday Sunday churches are so boring.
There's literally carpet on the walls.
It is just bland and smells vaguely of carpet cleaner
and toddlers.
And when you go to churches for three hours,
it's two now, but it used to be three when I went.
And it is just like you can't even clap
after someone performs an insanely amazing musical number.
You just have to be quiet.
So I go to this church of my friends
and I walk into this amphitheater
and there are levels, there are projectors,
there is a band on the stage and I'm thinking to myself,
is this a concert for Jesus?
What is this?
This is wild.
People are swayed and dancing and arms in the air.
And I'm just thinking, where am I?
This is so crazy to me.
And so is that friend who I distinctly remember
sitting outside the high school in my car.
It's parked, it's nighttime.
Excuse me, it's nighttime.
We probably just finished cheer practice or something.
And she pulls out this notebook
and she very seriously looks me in the face
and goes, Shalice, I need to talk to you.
It's like, okay, what's going on?
She goes through this list of all of these notes
that she had taken after going to the school library
and watching videos on Mormonism
and started coming at me
with all of the things that are wrong with it.
And I was blindsided, first of all.
And second of all, I had secretly been trying to convert her
so this is not a good look.
This is not working in my favor.
And she's going down this list of
if you believe Jesus is your brother
and not your savior, then you're going to hell.
And I was like, well, we still believe
that he's our savior, but we also believe
that we're all sons and daughters of God
and Jesus is the son of God.
So that would make us siblings
and it just made so much sense in my head.
She was not having any of it.
She did the Joseph Smith in a hat thing.
You should not worship Joseph Smith.
I was like, we don't, we don't worship Joseph Smith.
We totally did.
Like looking back at it when you're chanting,
follow the prophet, follow the prophet.
And it's like really creepy and kids are singing this.
Yeah, we worship Joseph Smith.
But I was so determined to prove her wrong
that I went home that night and I got on my computer
and I was Googling and it was really hard.
I mean, 2008 websites were still a little janky
and kind of weird.
And I was looking at all these weird sources
not knowing what was true
and what was X Mormon propaganda.
And there was this one thing that I found
where it said in the temple, which mind you,
I have no idea what goes on in the temple.
Our whole purpose as a child of God
is to go to the temple,
but you can't go until you're old enough
and you make all these sacred covenants
and no one knows what actually goes on in it
till they get there.
So I'm finding out things about the temple
and also wondering, should I be looking at this
because I'm not supposed to know,
but I gotta know and this is probably fake anyway.
There is something that says you make an oath
and you use these hand motions
that you will slit your throat
and cut out your bowels
if you ever divulge the secrets of the temple.
And I was like, I was laughing
because it sounded so ridiculous
and so completely made up.
So I bring my mom in, I'm like, mom, mom, come here,
you gotta look at this, look what this website says.
And I read it to her and I look over
just waiting for her response
and she's just blank face staring at me.
And I'm like, it's funny, right?
Trying to get her to react.
And she was just like, well,
and that's when I start getting sick to my stomach
and I go back to her and say, they don't do this, right?
And she's sitting there because if you think about it,
what I'm asking her to divulge
would be going against the exact covenant
that I just read that you have to,
you covenant to slit your throat
and cut out your bowels if you reveal the temple secrets.
And she has her daughter looking up at her,
like tell me what's going on.
And in the moment, I'm so lucky that I have a mom
who chose her family over this church
and decided not to lie to me.
And she goes, well, they don't do that anymore.
I lost my mind.
I was like, what do you mean they don't do that anymore?
That's insane.
That's what's going on in the temple
and those gorgeous little castle looking things
on the side of the road.
I was flabbergasted, but also I was a teenager.
So I wasn't ready to topple over my beliefs at that time.
It was my identity.
It was everything.
It was, I was trying to be the example in Oregon,
this shining example of how Mormons can be normal.
And look, I'm great.
I wasn't ready to go back to my friend and say,
yeah, you are right and I'm living a lie and this is crazy.
So I just put it on the shelf.
That's what Mormons say, just put it on the shelf,
leave it alone until eventually you put so many things
on the shelf that it just completely breaks and falls.
And you have no option but to just redefine everything
and figure it out and go through a faith crisis.
So your mother obviously knew this.
Was she able to enter the temple?
Or is that just a male thing?
Yeah.
Oh, she could?
Yeah, so the men usually go,
they call it getting their endowments.
They usually go when they go on a mission.
So young, 18, 19 years old,
they have all these privileges to go to the temple.
For women, usually you can't go until you get married
in the temple to a worthy priesthood holder,
is what they call the men.
So for women, even if you're 30 years old sometimes,
they still won't allow you to go to the temple
until you get married.
So that's part of the sexism that's underlying in the church.
And once you get to the temple,
I think they also recently changed this language,
but when you do get married in the temple,
which is what they tell you you should do,
and it's the only way to get to the highest level of heaven
because there's levels,
you have to, the women swear fealty to their husband
and obedience to their husband,
and the men swear fealty and obedience to God.
So there's another little level of sexism there,
and a lot of women come out of the temple
on their wedding day feeling defeated, crushed,
betrayed, confused.
Why can't I have a relationship with God?
Why do I have to go through my husband?
So yes, my mom had gone through the temple.
I remember actually my half sister was sealed to us,
and I was lucky enough, I was worthy enough.
Yes, I had to do a worthiness interview
at like 10 or something to be able to go and witness
my sister being quote, sealed to us
for time and all of eternity.
And it was kind of the same ceremony
that would happen if you were getting married.
So I kind of got to see what it was like.
Have you seen the temple clothes that you have to wear?
It's practically like a wedding, isn't it?
Oh, no, it is so much worse.
Really?
Well, I don't mean like riding groom the way we have,
but it looks similar to a wedding kind of thing.
Am I wrong?
Let me describe for you.
Let me describe for you.
And maybe you'll want to like put something up on the screen
so everyone can see or everyone can Google it.
But these outfits, when I walked in, I was like,
where am I?
Because this is not the church that I thought I belonged to.
And that's almost everybody's reaction,
because you're not allowed to talk about the temple
once you leave, so you can't even really tell anyone.
And everything's supposed to be a secret.
And they say, it's not secret, it's sacred,
but it's a secret.
So, let me visualize here.
So the women are in this like white, long dress.
And I believe, because you have to cover your shoulders,
they're at least mid arm, like bicep,
but usually they're down to your wrists.
I think, I don't know if they have short sleeve,
I'm pretty sure all of them are long sleeve,
but correct me in the comments guys.
And then you have on these sashes,
like these weird sashes that during the temple ceremony,
you have to move them around depending on what they're saying.
And then you have an apron that is supposed to be
the Adam and Eve leaf, you know,
like the leaf covering the groin,
but it's a full on apron that's leaves in bright green.
And then the men have on these weird baker hats.
It's so culty and weird.
I wish I could show you a picture right now,
but that's what they're wearing.
So I walk in and there's everyone in this circle
wearing these weird things.
And they're looking at me like,
oh, it's so nice that Chalice got to come to the temple
because it was an exception.
I shouldn't have really been able to be there.
And there's an altar in the middle
that's like this weird cushy thing that you kneel at.
It was so odd.
And then when I left, even one of my aunts came up to me
and she's like, I bet you didn't expect that.
What did you think of the outfits?
Because everyone knows that it's so weird.
And once you're in the cool kids club,
you own the weirdness and then there's like an initiation
where you get to poke fun at it for the newcomers.
So it's just odd, but once you get to that level,
you can't back out.
You've spent your whole life waiting to get there.
And that's the only way that you can get
to the highest level of heaven.
So you're just gonna go with it.
You're gonna go with any of the weird stuff that come out.
That's so weird.
Because my, just an example of where I came out of,
Pentecostal type non-denominational Christianity,
we would get the gift of the Holy Spirit.
And so we would be at these concerts that you're talking about
or even non-concert places where they just play the music
and it would get down into the worshipy kind of slow
and really emotionally grabbing music.
And people would get what they call baptized
in the Holy Spirit.
And I know that you guys have baptism of the dead.
There's all sorts of interesting things
that go into the Mormon tradition,
but we would speak in tongues.
And to those who are on the inside,
like you've already gotten over the weirdness of it
and you just own it,
like you're talking about with these gowns,
but you're just sitting there.
And you're like gibberish to God
because it's a language that the angels,
it's the language of angels that God understands.
And they're supposed to be interpreters,
all sorts of weird, like kind of mystical, strange actions.
But people from the outside who come in,
you're like, in my mind,
when new people would come in who've never done this,
you have to try to like,
convince yourself in your mind,
this isn't weird.
And you know they're about to hear,
ha la shimababababababababababababababababba.
And I mean, like, there's wild stuff going on.
And my wife, when I got her introduced to it,
she was like going with the flow on purpose.
And then she's telling me later,
this is weird.
This is not normal.
But yeah, I just figured I'd relate to you.
So you're finding out like,
you're bouncing around in your timeline,
but it's necessary to paint this picture
of strange things that always stuck with you,
friends who are highlighting things.
Isn't it interesting that people who aren't on the inside
notice stuff before those who are?
So people who are on the outside
are always recognizing problems
or things that don't match the people on the inside.
But I find this problem elsewhere as well,
like Christians are quick to point out flaws
about Islam or the Muslim faith,
various groups can notice problems
with others and not themselves.
So you're a diehard on a scale from one to 10.
How serious were you of a believer you would say
in your life?
Oh, a 10, 100% a 10.
I was all in.
I did all of the activities.
I would do the young women's thing,
which happens when you're 12 to 18,
where you go, they call it mutual.
You go to an activity at the church building on Wednesdays
and they teach you how to be a better wife,
whatever it is.
They tried to make it fun so that we would go,
but it always would tie back into the scriptures
or the church somehow.
They would teach you how to be modest.
Like we went on a little trip to the mall
and we window shopped,
and they would point out clothes that were modest.
Like, here's a great example of something that's fun
and stylish and doesn't show your shoulders.
They're just trying to mold you into,
I don't know, a cult member, I guess.
No, they have the best intentions,
but things don't always manifest the way
that they want them to,
because then that leads into the purity culture thing
of she was assaulted because she wasn't dressed modestly
and there are bishops who I have heard.
People have messaged me privately.
I did an entire episode on purity culture
and the sexual distortions that happen with Xmolex
on my page because there's so much to talk about
when you have this purity culture that is ruling your life
and bishops have punished women for being assaulted
because maybe their shoulders were showing
and it was their fault,
which is so incredibly wrong and hurtful and disgusting.
So something that seems as, I don't know,
not very damaging or what's a big deal
you had to wear t-shirts,
it can lead to a lot of very damaging things
and that's something that I am constantly pointing out
on my page where you may have the best of intentions
for a rule or something,
but it doesn't always manifest the way
you think it's going to.
Can you take us to that point
where you're actually now doubting
and lead us up to that?
What happened?
Who said what?
Where were you?
I usually, it's not just out of nowhere,
one thing is said and everything.
It's usually a buildup of things,
but can you take us to that precipice
where you're ready to jump?
Well, it goes back to purity culture.
I was in Vegas for college.
I was studying fashion design,
which side note, my bishop in Portland was like,
how great is it that we're gonna have
a Mormon fashion designer
who can design modest clothes?
And I was like, who said I'm doing that?
That is not fun at all.
So I was in Vegas doing that
and I had been dating someone for about a year
and was madly in love and I was 19,
so clearly I was about to get married.
And having been dating someone for that period of time,
we wanted to be intimate with each other
and that was not allowed.
And just to give you an idea,
not only can you not have sex, you can't do anything.
You can't do anything that is a three second kiss.
In fact, the bishop gave us a list of rules
of things that we couldn't do that were laughable,
things that you would probably say to a middle schooler,
like don't lay on top of each other,
don't lay down with each other,
don't stay at their house past midnight,
all these stupid things where it's like really,
I'm an adult, I'm literally living in my own apartment
in a state different from my parents
and you're trying to tell me that I have to be home
at midnight, it's just ridiculous.
So we slip up, oh no, something that still wasn't even sex,
but bad enough to where immediately after my boyfriend
who pushed me into doing it said,
oh, we need to go repent.
And I was like, are you kidding me?
Because I know what that means, it means punishment,
it means a little bit of public shaming.
Because what happens is when you sin,
you have to go tell your bishop
and then your bishop, it's bishop roulette,
you never know what you're gonna get.
Someone who says it's fine, you love each other
or someone who says that's gonna be
this amount of punishment, you can't take the sacrament,
which is basically communion every Sunday.
If you pass that tray over you, everyone knows
that you're a sinner and you need to do something
to repent.
And so it was this bishop's interview that broke me.
Like when I say it broke me, it broke me.
And it was mentally, spiritually, emotionally,
all of the ways except physically,
he didn't actually physically harm me,
but he made me feel like the worst person on the planet
for doing something so normal and so natural
that he literally said to me, what you did was unnatural,
not normal, nowhere to be found in the Bible and disgusting.
And so of course, like, how else am I gonna react?
But complete shame, I felt like I was the worst person
on the planet, he told me I wasn't spiritual enough
that my boyfriend needed to break up with me
because I was a bad influence.
And I mean, I stood up to him at one point,
I was like, what do you mean?
Aren't you supposed to pray about this?
Because he said that's one year without the temple,
which is a really long time, especially because
to get to the highest level of heaven,
you have to be going to the temple.
So my salvation's on the line.
And I left there feeling like the worst person in the world.
And he crushed my spirit.
And some people are like, oh, whatever, get over it.
But when your, like I said, salvation is hanging
in the balance and you feel like you have failed yourself
and failed God and failed the person that you love,
of course, you're gonna feel awful about it.
Wow.
So you're put through the wringer.
This is this, so this almost is a moment.
I wanna get into your psychology a little,
which tapping into it, if you're okay with that,
I know it's sensitive to really dive into,
but I think it's important.
And that is you are, again, one out of 10, you're a 10.
You are a full-on believer.
You made a little natural thing we all do as humans
with the person you love.
You go in, you get hit over and over and over
with the worst kind of penalty you can probably get
in that situation.
And this really angered you and upset you
to a point where you're having an existential crisis.
Your identity is at stake because of this situation.
What happens after that?
Yeah, and I wanted to take a breather
to give you a second to react before I continued.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
So thank you.
I'm just processing this.
So what happened is I went home,
I felt like the worst human on the planet.
I had already been dipping my toe
in the pool of sin, if you will.
I lived in Sin City, but I still had never tried alcohol,
which is a no-no.
I had never smoked, never tried weed.
I was following all the rules except for modesty
because have you been to Vegas?
I'm not wearing long-sleeve shirts and long shorts.
Sorry, and I'm a fashion student,
so fashion was important to me.
But other than that, I was following all of the rules.
And so I was annoyed when he said you need to be better
and you're not spiritual enough.
I was like, I read my scriptures every single night.
I pray every single day.
I'm still a virgin and I'm almost 20 years old.
That should count for something not impressed.
He was not impressed at all.
And I get home and I even, I called my mom in tears
and told her the story.
She was livid because even she was like,
you are the most spiritual person that I know.
You are probably more spiritual than I am.
What do you mean?
And so after I got home, I did some serious self-reflection
because I started to think about what my mom had said.
I was thinking about who I knew I was as a person.
I knew that I was a good person
and I knew that I had a relationship with God
and I didn't want this stupid bishop to try and taint that.
And then I had this wild thought that I never had before,
at least not to this degree.
I thought, what if none of this is true
and I'm suffering for no reason?
And it hit me.
All of the things that my friend had said to me in Portland
and my little Google sesh before,
but I wasn't really ready for the answers.
So I consulted the internet again.
And this time I was not holding back.
I was not questioning the websites,
even if they looked a little weird.
By then the internet had kind of caught up a little bit.
The websites were better.
And I was finding out all these things about Mormonism
that I was like, yeah, this is made up.
I'm off the hook.
And in that moment,
in that moment I was researching for nine hours straight
until the sun came up.
At the end of that,
I realized I have my entire life ahead of me
that I can choose for myself.
I can make all of my own decisions.
I can decide what I feel is right and wrong,
but I feel like I'm gonna do a good job
because I'm a good person.
It's not like I'm gonna go murder somebody now
that I have the option to.
But on the other hand,
I was completely terrified
because I don't know any of the answers anymore.
Is God real?
Is Jesus real?
What do I believe?
I had to completely reconstruct everything.
And that's why I think deconstruction is such a good word
for people who are having a faith crisis
because you are chopping everything down
or it just completely falls down and you have no choice,
but then you get to rebuild and decide who you want to be
and who you want to present to the world.
And I still, so people say,
oh, so did you go off the deep end?
You lived in Vegas.
Did you start drinking?
And no, I had my first cocktail on my honeymoon a week ago.
And that was 12 years ago
that I deconstructed Mormonism.
So things take time.
Not to say I didn't drink alcohol
because I thought it was bad or sinful.
I think sin is made up.
But I still had these things that I was like,
you know what, I don't really want to partake in that
until I decide I want to.
So I also have to point that out for people who say,
well, you need Mormonism because if you didn't have it,
you would just be an alcoholic and a drug user
and this and that, and that's just not true.
And so I like to always tell that to people.
Like just because you decide to not have
an organized religion, that doesn't mean
that you can't be spiritual
or have a connection to a higher power.
It doesn't mean you can't be a good person.
In fact, I think it might make you a better person
because you do things out of the kindness of your heart,
not because you think, as you call it,
Sky Daddy is gonna smite you for doing the wrong thing.
Hmm.
You left, you now realize this very man made
where there's some things online that you can remember
that really stuck out to you,
like maybe the idea of Joseph Smith's many wives
or the idea of the book of Abraham.
Like was there anything that you can recall
that was like, hold on, what the heck?
They don't tell us this.
This is too much.
Look at you knowing about the book of Abraham.
You know.
That was actually the one thing that I was like,
oh, if he made this up, he made the rest up.
I found out about the book of Abraham
for people who don't know
or maybe haven't seen it on your channel before.
It's this book of scripture that Joseph Smith got
from a traveling mummy show.
You heard that right.
A traveling mummy show came through New York
and he said, I wanna buy a mummy.
That's what I'm gonna do with the church's money.
So he buys a mummy.
Inside it, there is a scroll and he goes,
well, since I have the power of God, I will translate this.
He translates this, what he called reformed Egyptian,
which isn't a real thing, spoiler alert.
And it turned into the book of Abraham.
And the book of Abraham is responsible for things
like God lives on a planet called Kolob
and the race thing where they believe
that black people were bad in the pre-existence
and that's why they were cursed with dark skin in this life.
A bunch of really bad stuff,
stuff that has shaped the church quite a bit.
And I find out that now that people can understand
and translate Egyptian,
everyone's like, ooh, ooh, ooh, let's translate it again
and prove that Joseph Smith is a true prophet.
He wasn't, it was a funeral script,
a very common funerary text
that were often found in sarcophagi.
That's the right way to say it.
And so when I found that out,
I realized if he made that up,
he made up the entire thing
because he quote translated the book of Mormon
by actually putting his head in a hat with a rock.
And which is so dumb.
I found out that that was true
when I felt like the biggest idiot
because the church doesn't tell you that.
Everything that they tell you and show you,
the way that it's depicted,
is they have all of these paintings of Joseph Smith
with the plates right next to him
and he's looking over and he's writing it himself,
which also he didn't do, he had a scribe do it.
So there are so many inconsistencies
in the ways that they sneakily get around the truth,
but even now the church has admitted
and the prophet has shown.
So embarrassing on a video.
Yeah, this is how he did it.
And he puts his head into his top hat
and I'm just like, what?
Wow.
Just the fact that we believed it
or people don't know that they believe it.
And when you tell them, they'll probably say,
that's not true.
Well, look at your prophet.
He said that it is true.
So a lot of that's happening now with Mormonism.
You're getting people, creators like myself,
who are putting out the actual information,
members of the church who are clapping back
and they're like, that's not true.
And then I give them the church's website
and like they did say Joseph Smith had this many wives
and then they're like, well, what do you say to that?
When the church actually comes out with the truth,
but they hide it so deep in the website
that people just won't stumble upon it,
except us ex-mos.
So yes, book of Abraham was a big one.
Probably the only thing I needed,
but then I discovered the first vision,
how there are multiple accounts.
And this is what the entire church has founded on,
Joseph Smith seeing God and Jesus coming down to him
in a pillar of light
when he was asking which religion to join
and they said, none restore my one true church
upon the earth,
church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
But then I found out there's multiple versions
and the church doesn't use the first or the last,
they pick one in the middle
and find out that the first vision
wasn't even introduced to the members of the church
back in that time until years later, like eight years later.
How is this making any sense?
Stuff like that.
And then it wasn't until 2020 when I started writing my book,
which I'm working on a memoir of my life in Mormonism,
coming out of Mormonism,
uncovering abuse and healing from it,
that I started really looking into the history
because I thought if I'm gonna write a book about it,
I need to know what I'm talking about.
And that is when I just lost my mind
with so many things that I had no idea about.
The Joseph Smith and his plural wives,
34 wives or something,
they still don't even know exactly how many.
Mother, daughter, combos, sister combos,
women who are already married.
I was just like, this church is nuts, blood oaths.
I mean, the list goes on and on.
It's just so wild.
I recently talked to my buddy, Gary Stone,
who I told you before we hit record,
is a descendant of William Clayton,
who was like Joseph Smith's best friend and personal scribe.
And the doctrines and covenants, 132,
the backstory to that.
We have the letters from William Clayton
that Joseph Smith, his brother and William Clayton
are in a room.
Joseph tried to kind of sneak or present the idea
of having a polygamous marriage things with other women.
And Emma wasn't having it.
And she flips out and goes,
yeah, if you're having multiple wives,
I'm having multiple husbands.
Well, he goes with William
and they wrote doctrines and covenants 132,
which is like one of the major parts of the faith
of Mormonism today.
And if you read it, it's God speaking to Emma through Joseph,
getting, setting her straight to obey the prophet.
And then eventually he like directly says,
thus sayeth the Lord God,
you cannot have many husbands,
but he can have several wives.
I mean, it's so obvious.
It's so obvious.
It's so obvious.
And we learn about all these scriptures.
So doctrine and covenants is something
that is direct revelation from God, right?
To Joseph Smith.
It's not an ancient text.
It's not part of the golden plates
that he quote translated.
So when you look at it from that perspective,
it's so clear that the doctrine and covenants
is just Joseph Smith pushing an agenda.
And he receives revelation that his friend needs
to take out a mortgage on his farm
so that he can give Joseph Smith the money to print,
whatever.
And then this guy sadly goes bankrupt.
It's just, it's so clear
when you look at it from that perspective.
And he loved using the angel with a flaming sword thing.
I mean, this angel, who is this angel?
It's come to him multiple times.
An angel with a flaming sword appeared to me
and said that if you don't accept polygamy,
then he will smite you, Emma.
And he will also smite me.
And he used this with multiple women.
He would go to them and coerce them
because most of them didn't want to marry Joseph Smith.
They were like, nah, I'm set.
And he was like, well, if you don't,
an angel with a flaming sword will smite me.
And then they're like, well, okay.
I mean, I guess I have to do that.
It's just, it's so bonkers.
So when you really look into the facts and the history
and the journal entries of these women
that were forced into doing it,
when you find out that there was a man
who routinely practiced abortions down the road
from Joseph Smith's house,
because that's the other thing they'll say
is, well, he didn't have sex with his polygamous wives
because there are no children.
Don't you think there's other ways around that?
And some of them were already married.
So they probably did have Joseph Smith's children.
I just think the evidence is too strong,
especially considering he was a treasured digger
before that and a con artist before that.
It all lines up.
It's just a scam.
So it's ironic that purity culture
is what drove you to exit a religion,
we call Mormonism, the Latter-day Saints,
and finding out that the founder was far
from practicing a purity kind of culture.
He was beyond what you would be even if you leave.
Some people who are in cults, there's the idea.
If you lock them in the closet their whole life,
then they go out, they'll be wild.
But I don't know if you can compete
with how far he went with this.
What did that do to your thinking after leaving?
I think what happened, it's a long process
because when you're born and raised in something
or even just indoctrinated for a few years,
your thoughts start changing
and they're not your own opinions anymore.
So it took a long time to be able to have relationships
with boyfriends and not feel like a complete whore.
Honestly, because even if you love somebody,
if you're being intimate with them,
you still have those thoughts come back into your head
of should you be doing this?
But yeah, it is ironic that the founder was just
out of control when it came to sexual relations
and people always laugh and say Mormonism
is just a sex cult because they're so sex obsessed.
They were sex obsessed in the beginning
and they're sex obsessed now in the opposite way.
Well, and once you get married, they tell you
you have to have as many kids as possible
or you're being selfish and God won't like that.
So it is kind of a sex cult in a weird way
and that takes a toll on your mental health
when you're trying to have a healthy sexual life
or just healthy sexuality because it's in your biology.
You're meant to be a sexual being
and when you're told that it's sinful
and you're wrong for having these feelings,
it takes a while to make yourself feel okay with it
and to settle into who you are
and to be okay with a healthy sexual expression.
And some people never get over it, to be honest.
Some people it takes years,
some people immediately are like,
oh, cool, I can have sex, this is great.
It really just depends on the person
and it also depends on their own personal experiences
with bishops or even people who have been abused
in other contexts outside of the church
that can also have an effect.
So yeah, there's just a lot
and purity culture isn't the only thing
that permeates your brain when you're leaving Mormonism.
You still have those existential thoughts
like should I have got married in the temple just in case
because what if it is real
and I end up in outer darkness because I'm an apostate?
It's just, it's always gonna be there
even just the culty little songs that pop up into your head.
You're like, why am I singing that?
It's just always there.
Wow.
So you left and if we can probe a little bit further
what year do you recall leaving Mormonism?
It was 2011, I think, or maybe 2010.
It was towards the end of my college years
and I had left where I didn't make it a big thing.
I was just like, yeah, I'm not going to church anymore.
This is crazy.
I'm gonna start being myself.
And then I was lucky enough to go to a study abroad
in London where I was able to distance myself
from the container of Mormonism
because a lot of people don't know that Mormonism
is actually huge in Vegas
because they actually settled it
before the mafia came in and took over.
So there's a huge population of Mormons there
and at the time I was told
when I first moved there in 2008
there was a larger population of Mormons in Vegas
than there were in Utah, which I found hard to believe.
I don't know, we can fact check it.
But point is there was a huge group of Mormons there
and that was my friend group.
That's pretty much who I hung out with.
They were fun.
We had a good time and we did a lot of activities,
hiking, all of that thing.
But when I left, it was a lot easier
to transition out of it because I moved to London
and I was no longer in that bubble
and I could just explore safely without anyone
looking down or looking over my shoulder
asking me why I'm not at church, all of those things.
And then when I came back
I immediately moved to California.
So I was lucky to be plucked out emotionally
and spiritually and physically
and put in a new place that I was safe to explore in.
And now that you're safe to explore
what path have you taken that has helped you in your life?
Because you obviously are not interested in places
that have high control or are gonna harm you.
How has that journey been?
What have you found that works for you?
What works for me is still having
those spiritual experiences or feeling connected
to a higher power.
It's not the guy on a throne with a beard
saying you go to heaven, you go to hell.
It's not that.
But it is this knowing that I'm connected
to something greater than myself.
And it's being more conscious of who I am,
what I'm presenting to the world.
It's trying to be a better person because I want to be,
not because I feel like I have to be.
That's a big thing in Mormonism is you have to be perfect.
And many times people get caught up in putting on a facade
because they just feel like they have to look
like this perfect housewife, this perfect saint,
literally Latter-day Saint, and it's really difficult.
So being able to understand my flaws and be okay with them
and maybe work on them, but not feeling like
I'm a bad person if I don't accept my flaws
because perfectionism isn't attainable
and it's not healthy to try and attain perfectionism.
So working towards goals and working towards
bettering myself without getting caught up
in any sort of dogma.
So I do like crystals, I'm wearing a crystal necklace.
I do like meditation, but I'm not caught up
in the New Age cult, this New Age mysticism.
I do pray and I have a connection with the higher power,
but I feel more connected to a higher power
when I'm out of nature, not when I'm at a church building,
which may work for some, but it doesn't work for me.
I think churches trigger me.
I enjoy plant medicines.
I think when done in a ceremonial way
and a spiritual way, an intentional way
is probably the best way to put it.
You can connect with God and you can get information
about your life or see things from a different perspective
because of the new connections
and synapses formed in the brain.
I think that is more interesting and enlightening
and exciting for me than sitting in a boring church
with carpeted walls.
You're going to the ancient ways.
In fact, there's just a comment on that
and I think there's some interesting points that you bring up.
I have had my fair share of experience
with what we like to call psychedelics
or something that helps you to exit the typical mindset
that we live in on a daily basis
and imagining the ancients who talk about overcoming death
by having those kinds of experiences.
They, I'm sure, had their fair share of experiences
by participating in some of these mysteries
that helped them to better grasp the world,
lessen fear or their daily fear that they dealt with,
things like that.
So I imagine you're probably doing something similar
in your journey and I love this story.
I hope that continues what you're doing is working for you.
It's not harming anybody.
It's only helping you, helping others.
And I hope that everybody watching will go subscribe
because I'm fairly confident.
We just touched the tips of the iceberg.
There's a whole bunch underneath.
Yeah, thank you so much.
And I do really resonate with what you said
about the ancient ways.
I think there's a lot to be learned from our ancestors
and working with the earth and using its natural medicines
and healing ways not to say that I don't agree
with modern medicine because that's not the case.
I think there's a place for both.
And I think it's about finding what works for you
and what makes you feel whole and centered and present.
And if that means a weed gummy for you, that's great.
If that means blue lotus tea, awesome.
If that means meditating and taking a few deep breaths,
great, painting, dancing, all of those things
or it can be meditative.
So I think that's really what it is.
It's just coming back to self,
figuring out who you want to be,
not having any outside influences telling you who to be.
It's fine to look up to people,
but you don't want to be controlled by anyone.
My tagline is true individual sovereignty,
finding what makes you happy
and how you can help other people.
Like you said, not creating any harm
or at least amount of harm possible.
And just living by that,
I think has been a beautiful thing in my life
and something that I like to promote to other people,
especially through my channel.
So thank you for all the kind words
that you have to say about my channel.
I really appreciate it.
Yep, and now she's a real saint.
I really appreciate it.
Oh, awesome what you do.
I hope you continue to do it.
Our audience obviously commends you
and I hope that more people will continue to follow you
and see the kind of interviews you bring to the table.
I think we're on the same page
and wanting the best for others.
And I'm sure that we can do more down the road
to discuss the intricacies of Mormonism and other harms.
Maybe I'll show up on your channel one day as well.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
Yeah, thank you so much.
There's so much to dive into, so much to uncover
and so much to dissect.
So this will not be the last time we meet.
Thank you.
