I've taken a special interest in Islam lately and one of the big things I do is I look at the
biblical criticism I've learned from Judaism and Christianity and all the literature involved
and I see so many patterns over here in Islamic literature, the Quran, the Hadith, the traditions.
I see a lot in common. I also see though preservation here that's better than what we have
in the early biblical literature. Whatever that means, it doesn't mean ontologically,
these things are true. It just means maybe people have learned a trick or two along the way.
Check out this fascinating interview if you're interested in wanting to understand
actual scholarship in depth about Islamic literature, the variants and whether it's been
preserved. This is the video for you.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast, your host, Derek Lambert.
Ladies and gentlemen, the caliber that I have brought on today in Islamic studies is,
I like to say impeccable. I'm not kissing his butt. I'm just being honest here to say
Marain van Puden is a linguistic monster and I don't mean that derogatorily. I mean this guy is
all over. If Dr. Sean Anthony is saying, no, no, no, you need to listen to this guy,
then I'm going to peek my ears and pay attention. So I just want everyone to know,
welcome to MythVision Podcast. We're going to be talking about lots of stuff,
lots of different things pertaining to Islamic studies, specifically the literature.
And thank you for joining me. Yeah, happy to be here. Thank you. I want to give
quick thing out of the way, if you will. He has a book and specifically he's an
expert when it comes to Berber, the language. And so probably the culture as well, I suspect
to know the language, you got to know a lot more. But yeah, if you're interested in checking that
out, here it is on Amazon. He also has an academia.edu website. You can go and read a
lot of the articles that he has published. And so check him out there as well. All of this is
down in the description. He has a book that will be coming out and in the series of this vein,
the book is going to be titled Chironic Arabic from its Hijazi origins to its classical reading
traditions. That will also eventually not right now, but it eventually will make itself down into
the description. So if you guys are checking this out and you see it, go check out the book.
The guy knows what he's talking about. And last of all, I have a Patreon where all of this material,
including this video, was released before it's to the public. So if you're seeing this on YouTube,
the Patreon members already watched this first. And I interview academic after academic and we
go into question after question. Who did Jesus think he was, for example? Joseph of Arimathea,
is he a literary character? Did he really exist? Was there really a place of Arimathea?
There's all sorts of stuff going on and different scholars that I've interviewed. I mean, right
here we have Delcy Allison Jr. The list goes on. So if you want to help us out, keep the lights on
here and you want to maybe steer the direction this channel goes in terms of asking questions,
you can join the Patreon and message me there. All right, let's get right into the juicy stuff
because we've got too much to discuss. And once again, thank you for taking the time and coming on.
Yeah, no, I'm very happy to be here. And just one one thing I want to add.
So my book that's coming out, it'll be open access. So it'll be free for everyone to read,
which is wonderful. So I'm very happy that I managed to get that to get going. So I look forward
to that. I always appreciate that because when you have an academic work by an academic publisher,
oh, they hit you over the head. And I think there's a lot of politics behind it. But ultimately,
it's this whole idea that the libraries and they think not many people are going to purchase it.
So they hit these libraries up and these libraries will be willing to pay the hundreds of dollars
for one copy. But I think media is going to start changing that. And maybe these publishers will
start realizing that more people are interested in the depth that you guys are presenting than
they really know. They think everyone has to go to a two to five, six year college to be interested
in what you're talking about. When guys at home right now on the internet are looking at what you're
doing and going, Whoa, go check out my Dean. Is it money money? Yes, money. I'm sorry. I'm literally
going to accidentally make mistakes with this with language and stuff here. So I'm new to this area.
But I say, I say, let's dive head first. I'm going to use analogies from what I do know,
which is biblical studies and, you know, obviously the biblical tradition, whether it's Judaism or
Christianity to kind of like get why I'm interested in this field. I think, and this is my opinion,
you don't even have to comment on that all of these religions are man made. They have developed
from the creativity and the imagination of man with the current current cultural context,
whatever elements that might be that help to create and develop what we see. So that's my
opinion, right? A lot of people will disagree, especially when it comes to the Quran. And most
people are Muslims are like, No, this is perfect. And they have a tradition that I don't even think
medieval scholars agreed with these kinds of ideas. That's going to be the interesting point.
And I'd love to see them grow up. And I don't mean it in the derogatory sense. I mean it like,
I had to grow up many people who are realizing that every single word jot and tittle to use
a biblical term is perfectly preserved and whatnot. So the first question I have for you is
simply this is the Quran. Is that I'm saying that correctly? Yeah, I mean, for my name's
Quran, but I say Quran all the time. I'm trying. Is the Quran preserved in the theological sense
dot for dot? Because I know the first question if I ask, is it preserved is, well, what do you mean
by preserved? And so I'm asking in the traditional fundamentalist sense where people were out there
acting like everything is inerrant infallible dot for dot from the original. Is that the case?
Yeah. So I mean, it is exactly as you said, like,
how do you define preservation? And that's really a question that's not always that easy
to answer. And you jump right in with a difficult question. So let's try. So
when we're talking about the Quranic text, it is known, it is a very, very stable text. It has
actually changed very, very little from its canonization around 650. And I pretty firmly
believe that the Quran was standardized as a tradition tells us by Othman, he had a standard
text created, sent it out to two different parts of the world, and of the Islamic world, of course,
at the time. And after that, the text basically hasn't changed. That's true.
What has changed? So essentially, so he has four copies made of the text,
and those differ a little bit from one another. And those differences are probably just
result-describable mistakes. The differences that are there are really tiny. One says,
and he said, and the other one, a versus starts with he said, and is missing. Well, that's not
another theologically very important thing. So why would you put that in there on purpose?
Now, so that's one thing you get. You get a text that is somewhat different in these different
regions, very tiny. I mean, it's a very, very small number. So when we're talking about it,
we're talking about about 40 differences, maybe tiny bit more. And those are the
difference between the texts. And after that, the text has been copied meticulously, and even
those for your first four copies are very meticulously copied. And basically, the text as
we have it today is more or less the same as the way that Othman has standardized it.
More or less, I say, there's some spelling differences. Some words change spelling over time,
but they change spelling over time. It's just small, small spelling differences.
But in terms of words, it's word-for-word identical to Othman's text. It really is,
and you can say whatever you want. Every now and then, you'll find a manuscript,
and someone forgot to write something. It's right there. Sometimes you find a manuscript
where something was changed for one reason or the other. But usually, there's not that many.
I mean, these things are copied very, very carefully. And what you don't get is, say,
inherited changes. So after these first four copies, which you have some spelling differences,
which seem to be inherited by all the manuscripts that come after,
if you see some kind of change happening in the manuscript, we don't see that spread into
other manuscripts. So really, from 650, that's more or less when the text was fixed,
and people don't really touch it anymore. You don't get added verses. You don't get added
suras or changed verses or these kinds of things. Basically, it's quite stable. Now, 650 is still
sometime, and 650, that's kind of a general thing, but it's during the reign of Othman who lived,
well, reigned from 45 to 50 something. That's still early, though, if we compare it.
Extremely early. Extremely early. So the point is, it is after the death of the prophet.
Let's say, at minimum, at least a decade in between his death and when they wrote it down.
Now, all kinds of things could have happened in between that time.
It is not, there's no voice recording in between. So can we know whether the text,
as we have it in the Othmanic text, is exactly identical to how the prophet
said it, or had it revealed, say? I mean, we just can't know. Muslims will often say, well,
he was an impeccable companion of the prophet, so why would he have done it differently?
That can be a good religious reason to believe it. Preserve just fine. But at the same time,
from a historical perspective, we just can't prove that. We can't say, well, we know for sure
that it's exactly as it was intended sometime after. But it's a very short time. It's even
a distance between that. So whatever happened there, it depends. But there's a good chance
that it did not have a massive change and go through a massive change. And we can talk a
little bit about that, because I think we'll talk, I'm sure, a little bit about companion
codices to sign up on Obsessed. And that shows the variation that was around in the text. So
we'll get to that. So is it preserved? Well, it depends how you define preserved, but it is
certainly a very stable text and very early on. Yeah. Now, when they say dot for dot, and they
mean it theologically, would you kind of put a question mark on that and say, hold on, hold on.
It's very preserved. Okay. If you looked at it without a bias, let me, let's take off theological
glasses and just look at this as a historian, the same way I would maybe ask you to look at a,
let's say a second century document or something, biblically, right? You will approach that. I
want you to not care what Christians think, so to speak, and say, okay, maybe it's not what
fundamentalist Christians down in Florida who are in a, you know, fundamentalist, literalist church.
Yeah, it's not that, it's not that kind of preserved, but it is very preserved. And you can
give your explanation. Would that be fair to say that historians who are approaching this without
kind of the traditional lens are going to say, well, we have good reason to say this is far
better preserved than what we see in biblical studies, but yet it may not be perfectly preserved,
identically not for dot. Yeah, so there's an interesting, interesting,
so yes, it was incredibly well preserved. And we, and depending on what you call perfect,
it's kind of what it comes down to. So let's put it like this. What I just told you,
basically, all these things that I just told you about the text, these are all things that
Islamic tradition knows and says is true, right? They are aware that there are differences between
the the codices, because they recorded them themselves. Do we have medieval literature that
says, you know, the Mus'haf, so that's the name for the codex of the Quran, in Kufa has
disvariant and the one in Basra has disvariant instead. And to them that apparently was not an
issue for for, you know, believing that the text was preserved. If you're like, well, that's not
what preserve means to me. I mean, that's fine. But that's clearly, you know, how they understood
the text, understood the text to have differences, they understood the text to be recited in different
ways. And that did not get in the way of them thinking the text is preserved. And so maybe
that perfectly is, I don't know, I think it's a bit of a almost almost a red herring. Are they
really talking about perfectly? And what, where is the perfection in this, right? And I think
people get a little distracted by this, also through the polemics that go around about this.
But it's, of course, absolutely absurd to see these kind of polemics between, say, you know,
Christian fundamentalists and Muslims, where the Christians are saying, look, your book isn't
preserved. It's like, well, sure. Good point. But you literally do not have anything, you know,
like the first 200 years, and then you have like a credit card size thing. It's like, well,
the Quran is complete. We have really a complete Quran, basically, in fragments, right, of different
manuscripts, multiple times attested within the first century. And that is just not something
you can say about the Bible at all. And it's, you know, front, front to back. And, you know,
there are some bits that we don't have multiple attestations of, but we basically have the full
text in the first century. In that first century, he's talking about the first century.
So no, no, I just want to clarify for audiences probably.
Islamic calendar starts at the migration of Muhammad to Medina, which is about 10 years
before his death. So that puts it somewhere for you. I just want to get, like, people used to
that on my channel, because they're going to hear more academics from Islam. Certainly, when I'm
talking first, second, third century, that's first, second, third century, and I'll certainly
be doing that. I try to recalculate, but it's okay. No, no, no. I appreciate that. And I respect that.
And yes, I think that that's hypocritical of Christians to run around and want to try and,
you know, do that. And then not even, no, no, we have preservation in P 52s, the earliest,
like you said, credit card, not even credit card, like smaller size fragment. And that's
what you're hinging on. So yeah, I mean, there's tradition there. And this is what I also see
in Islamic studies. So let's follow up to the next question. And I'm going to do my best to
pronounce some of this. What is mutawatir? And are the qirat reading traditions mutawatir? Are they?
How many total mutawatir qirat are there seven, 10, 14, or 25? Like there's different.
So how would you answer that? Yeah, so I think we have to probably start with a couple of things.
So first, so mutawatur, I might also use the word, which is the general concept, is
is a word that is used in say, say criticism of transmission within Islamic tradition.
Which means it's a tradition that is so incredibly well and widespread,
that there's no way it could not be true. Because there's all these independent people
who transmit the thing is like, you know, it's as obvious as anything that the text is.
And that there can be no doubts that it goes back to the Prophet. So usually this is about
saying stuff to Prophet, I'm not necessarily about the Quran. And does it even make sense to
talk about the Quran in this way? That's one question that you have to kind of wonder about.
But that doesn't take away the fact that these days is very common to say, and it's an old idea,
but it's not as old as the readings themselves. That's the readings are mutawatur. So you also
use the word qiraat. And so that's the plural of qiraat, which is a reading or recitation of the
Quran. And so this is an interesting thing about the Quran. I think very fascinating or something
that I work on a lot is the Quran, if you have this text, and it's a Semitic language, and like
many Semitic languages, there weren't really ways to write vowels. And the Arabic script is
even more ambiguous. And it's even often not possible to tell some consonants apart,
which means that technically, if you have the Quran in front of you, you could read it in an
infinite amount of ways. There's not an infinite amount of ways to read it. I mean, you can, of
course, read totally nonsensical things into it. But it's like, it doesn't say that we know
that the Quran is, you know, not talking about oil. That's a famous one, where the first verse
which is, there's no doubt within this book, that one of the reciters accidentally read
as zaita. And that means there's no olive oil in this book, which it obviously doesn't say,
right? But you could read it that way. Now, so as the time progressed, people had this text,
and you know, the standard, standard, ethnic text, and we also have non-ethnic
reversions, we'll talk about that later, I'm sure. They could interpret this in different ways. And
some of these places, it was ambiguous, right? We all know when nobody reads it with olive oil,
but they might read other words slightly differently here and there, you know, something like,
okay, he created whatever, or he was created, or it was created, right? These kinds of things
are quite close and basically have the same meaning. So we have these different traditions
and different famous people, basically, who spread their way, their interpretation in some
ways of the text of what it says, what it's supposed to mean. And, and there's a kind of
artful component to this, right? So there are linguistic differences, there are recitational
differences, which are very important, recitation in the Quran is part of, I'll say, what makes
the book holy to, to, to Muslims. And so then the question becomes, okay, these people, so we
have a couple of people, let's mention a couple of names, say, Nafia, who was the Medinan reciter
in the middle of the second Islamic century. And towards the end, I think, yeah, he died in 169.
And so, so he has his way of reading, and then you have someone like Abu A'ur, who's a bit earlier,
and he's from Basra, and he's recited Basra, and he's read it quite differently from, from, from
Nafia. And these would, they would, they would spread their reading to other people, and those
would then pass it on, pass it on through chain of transmission. And even today, if you learn to
recite the Quran, you will have a chain of transmission all the way back to these famous
reciters. So you can, and then, all those famous reciters have their own chain back to the prophets,
in some way, they're all connected to the prophet in that way. Now, that's kind of what's going on
with this. Now, the question is, are these transmissions multi-weathered? That is, are they
so widespread that they can absolutely no doubt that there's no mistake in it.
From the canonical reciters onwards, yeah, probably, you could say, you know, the canonical reciters
are extremely widespread, nobody is disagreeing, and there's some small disagreements here and there
on tiny words, but generally, like, probably 90, 99, 40 percent of the recitation is the same,
no matter if you go, say, to, you know, Indonesia, or you go to, that would be a terrible example,
Morocco, because they have a different recitation. If you go from Indonesia to, say, I don't know,
Saudi Arabia, they would be bouncing the same. And that's very widespread. Everybody who recites
the Quran can do that, sure. But the essential point here is that's up to the reciters. And
then going back to the Prophet, it's actually not an all that super widespread thing at all.
Some readings are only read by a single reciter. And if that is a single, so one specific word is,
so well, if you take the whole system, right, only one reciter recites that way and then spread it.
And we cannot trace that back. We can say, well, his teacher recited exactly like that, too. No,
no, we can see very clearly that teacher students have slightly different readings. So they make
word choices. And some of these word choices are very widely attested. And, you know, like,
seven of the 10 readers read it in one way and three in the other. And the seven, okay, that's
maybe super widespread. You could say that has to water, it's not water. But others are read by
only one. And only one one reader, there's no way you can say, well, this is mutawater,
because it's only one person who spread it. And, you know, he's 100 years after the fact, at least.
So no, and this is also something that was recognized by the tradition. So at some point.
So in the early, early periods, everybody's like, okay, it's very important that you have a good
chain of transmission back to the Prophet, of course, right. And you have to say, how you got this
recitation, why, etc. But you don't get it for every single word, like, okay, I learned this
word from this person, that word from that person, we just don't have that kind of detail.
Just know who were the teachers, these kind of things. So in the beginning, I say it's very
important to have a good chain of transmission. But nobody said, this is to water, this is
mutawater, you know, this has to water, it is mutawater. They just said, good transmission,
there we go. And at some point, this, this, this idea develops, no, no, no, it's not just
good transmission, it's the best possible transmission, right? There's no doubts how good
this transmission is. And that has become more or less the orthodoxy these days. It's not something
that was when completely unchallenged. So famously, Ibn al-Jazari, who is a, let me say this right,
14th century scholar, so our accounts, 14th century scholar, who canonized the three readings
after the canonical seven, and his 10 readings are today considered, you know, impeccable and
mutawater. But he himself says in his book, I don't think they are, which is a very interesting
thing that people find all kinds of interesting ways to read that text in a way that works to
stop having any meaning at all. But he doesn't believe that it's a case. He says, he clearly
thinks that most of, most of the recitation is, but he says, you know, for every single word,
we cannot make for every single reading that's possible. We cannot say for every single one of
them, they're absolutely mutawater. So that's, that's the water. Quick question on that though,
if I may, before we get to the next question is, do we have any clear examples of catching people
um, let me give you one analogy. The analogy would be, there's definitely this supposed
line of apostolic transmission from Peter through the Orthodox Church. When you really go back and
critical scholars look at this, they're not really, they're like, that's tradition that comes later,
like people are trying to be authoritative, so they're putting back that they connect themselves
to Peter. This is the same problem that Gnostic Valentinius did when he's arguing, oh no, no,
we go directly from Paul and Martian, I'm from Paul, right? Paul is their apostolic transmission,
whereas others say Peter. Um, we have good reason, not saying we can prove it, but we have good reason
to doubt some of this apostolic stuff is just a later polemic. Is there any mutawatir that we
could look at and say, you know, this sounds more like you guys are trying to lay authoritative
claim, or does it, is that a bad analogy? No, no, no, it's a good analogy, I would say. Um, so
one thing to really, really be aware of it, and something I think, I think a lot of people in
Islamic cities are very enamored by for good reason, is that there is no, no historical tradition,
um, you know, from, from, from pre-modern times that is as meticulous about this kind of stuff as,
you know, the Islamic tradition is. Islamic tradition goes to extreme lengths to figure out,
okay, is this person trustworthy? Is this train of transmission, does it make sense?
You know, is it plausible that these two people would have met each other? Do we have reasons
to think that this guy is a liar? They go through all the details, and we have big books, tones that
are collecting these kinds of things, and of course, hadiths, those same sort of prophets,
are graded, right? They say, you know, this one is good, this one is bad, this one is
unreliable, and that's very important. So, which doesn't mean it doesn't happen, and there are some,
say, hacks in the system to allow certain things to work out, and people would sometimes just
completely make up chains of transmission, those happen, and you can see them, you can kind of
work out the networkings, he's like, all of a sudden, he's like, all these made up names,
we have no idea who these are, and that's obviously made up. But very often, the tradition recognizes
that themselves as well. Now, at some point, of course, you stop being able to verify it,
you can see, you know, if multiple people are transmitting the same tradition, and they all
have a chain back to the same person, that makes sense. But then the chain back from that person
all the way back to the prophet, that's just a straight chain. Who knows, maybe they made it up,
maybe it's real. Very often, there's good reason to think it's perfectly acceptable, but at the
same time, the time that that really gets formalized is also some time after the death of the prophet,
not from the time of the prophet, they had like, okay, this is the formal way that we'll do transmission
now. You know, before it was just, you know, I heard this thing, and someone told me, and you get
these kind of somewhat vaguer transmissions that way. Now, for the Quran, that's so obvious,
not in any obvious way. So once we look at the transmissions up to the canonical readers,
so after the canonical readers, those look just fine. It's fixed. But the steps back to the prophet,
that can be quite hard. And sometimes they look realistic and acceptable. So some things we can
see, some of the canonical readers that we know are students of other canonical readers. And so we
can see that Hamza, who's the one of the Kufrin reciters, is students El-Kisa'i, who's one of the
other Kufrin reciters. And those two readings are very similar. And obviously, because, you know,
they were in teacher-student relationship with each other. So that makes sense, right? They
realize, so they made some changes, they don't have the exact same recitation, but they are clearly
transmitting from each other and have learned from each other. So we can confirm that chain, so to
speak, because we have both their readings. This makes me think of the synoptics, by the way,
like the whole synoptic problem, how Mark- Yeah, there's very similar to that. Yeah,
it's like, they're not two separate eyewitnesses. Is it possible? Yeah, but it looks more like
literary somehow, they're in the same way. Exactly. So you find these kind of connections.
And then we're like, we have a couple of things about some of the readings, we don't really have a
complete transmission, but they clearly are kind of in that line. So with the Kufrin, I would say
that transmission is quite good. So we can say Al-Kitsa'i certainly learned from Hamza,
Hamza certainly learned from Al-A'amash, and Al-A'amash learned from, I think,
As-Sulami, if I'm getting this right, and then Ibn Mas'ud, who was one of the
one of the companions of the Prophet and the prominent one. And that chain, I think we can
confirm basically every step of the way and have pretty good sense, okay, now this really seems to
be true. With other ones, so a particularly problematic one is Ibn Ahmad. Ibn Ahmad is a
Syrian reciter, and we have two transmissions from him, and they both converge not on Ibn Ahmad,
but as first students. So there's only one student from him, and from him, everything else diverges.
So we have absolutely no way to know that even Ibn Ahmad's reading is the one that we have today,
because basically we have the reading of a student, and we say it's even Ahmad's reading,
because the student said it's even Ahmad's reading, this is how I learned it. So do we know for sure?
No, and there's a couple more issues. According to the tradition, Ibn Ahmad lived to be 108 years
old, if I'm getting this right, but at least way over 100, which is very, very old, like it could
have happened, but it seems to perhaps be there to occasion the possibility for him to actually
learn the reading from Ufman directly, which is probably not the case. And so there's some
problems with that one. And there's some other chains as well, which look a bit more realistic,
but he would still have to have been really, really quite old. So what's going on with that,
who knows? And yeah, we don't know. So we don't know, we don't know where he got his reading from,
and we were this good reason to kind of doubt he got it the way he got it. And with many other ones,
it's like, well, there's nothing that looks particularly problematic, and it might even
be true, but there's no way to be sure. And it also, it doesn't take away the possibility that they
added in some new readings or new interpretations of a text where they did not necessarily have an
example from their teacher. Yeah, wonderful, wonderful. Thank you. Yeah, that was well detailed.
How many variants exist in the whole Qur'anic corpus, an approximate number?
An approximate number. Yeah, so it's not very many. If you think about the text,
so the Qur'an has about 70,000 words and I'm getting this right. And I think about
2,000 words are disagreed upon within the canonical readings. So that's a fraction, right? It's
less than a percent, I think. But someone else can do that calculation for me, but it's very
close to that. So it's really, really a small number of differences in reading that have some
effect on the meaning of the text or some way of that. Very few of them.
And this is after the fixed? This is the fixed? Yes, so canonical readings are basically fixed and
everything. So there are a couple of other things. There are non-canonical readings and they add a
couple more and it's probably probably a couple of thousand more after that. And some of those
perfectly reasonable readings and so on were like, that's kind of weird. So some of those are probably
just real. I mean, they're considered non-canonical because they're not part of the canon, not
because there was something wrong with them. And that's really also how they seem to think about
them. So it's, you know, they don't get rejected for being non-canonical. It's just the canonical ones
have a special status in that sense. And so that's one thing. But another thing to think about is
if you actually start looking at this, so some of these variants that we're talking about
have an effect on the whole text. So for example, and this is no linguistic meaning,
it has no meaning in terms of meaning of the text, but it has an effect on how it's recited,
which is a very important part of this text. So as an example, if you take the word
upon them, in most reading traditions that's pronounced as alayhim,
but in one reading is pronounced alayhim. And in another one, it's pronounced alayhim or two
other ones actually within economical transmissions. And then outside of that, you get alayhim,
you get alayhomo, you get alayhim, you get a whole range of other options. Well, every time you say
upon them, you pronounce it that way, right? And that's the case with lots and lots of words. So
we have all these, whenever you say wahua, which means and he, if you're reading about others,
you're supposed to pronounce this wahua, which is the same word. It means the same thing. But
every time that happens, which is hundreds of times in the Quran, you pronounce it differently.
So as a result, even though there's very few variants, there's hardly a single verse in the
Quran that is pronounced exactly the same in all readings, all economical readings that are around.
But they're all, they're all these kinds of linguistic tastes, basically, that are put
into the text by the reciters. And this is very much part of the artful performance.
So simultaneously, basically, every single verse has a variance, but also it's very few,
because anything that really matters is very few of them. And even the ones I gave this number
2000s, many of these are very tiny differences, you know, references that basically come down to
what you pronounce a word with one file or the other, which doesn't have any real effect on the
meaning or very rarely. So things that actually have an effect on the meaning, we're talking about
hundreds, like, you know, 500, maybe. I mean, that's kind of, I guess, I don't have a good
sense of it. It's hard to say that people disagree whether it has a difference in meaning, of course.
So that that comes down to that as well as like, oh, is there really a difference between that
verb and that verb? And, you know, they, and of course, there's a real tradition trying to sort
of unify these. So it's hard to say whether there's a difference in meaning, but sometimes it really
is. And so that's fewer of those still, yeah. Awesome. Okay, okay. So we're going to talk about
this. And I'm going to try my best to pronounce it. The, what is the significance of the sauna
manuscript or the palm, palm, palm piss sets? Am I saying that right? Palimpsest. Yes. Palimpsest.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it says the lower text and its variants. So this is a, I can bring up the
visuals when you're ready. But can you tell us what it is? And then I'll bring up some visuals?
Yeah. So, so the sauna palimpsest is one of the most exciting finds in the history of
chronic studies, basically, especially when it comes to the manuscript stuff. So why? So
well, let's first talk a little bit about this. So this text was discovered at least parts of it,
and parts have been kind of coming together. And by now we have like 80 folios of the text,
which makes up about 40% of the full Koran. It was found in the 70s behind a kind of fake
ceiling where all these Korans were being stored. And one of them was what we now call the
the sauna palimpsest. So what's a palimpsest? A palimpsest is a text where a text, where you
take the parchment and parchment is very durable material. So you can scratch it off quite easily
or wash it off or whatever, and rewrite it. So you have a text, you have to load text,
it's gone, and you put a new text on, basically erasing it, reusing it. This is very rare in
Koranic manuscripts. We hardly ever see palimpsests. We have in total three of them.
Yes, I think three. But this one is the only one. No, that's not true. The others are exciting too,
but this one is really exciting. Yeah, this is. So, so why is it exciting? Well, what's exciting
about it is actually the text that was, so you have another text, and that's just the standard
Koran, it's the authentic Koran. And so when I say authentic Koran, that means the standard text
will standardize around 650. And it's just just the standard text, but it's a text below it. And
as time progresses and some oxidation happens, you can use some stuff, you can actually see the
lower text and start reading a lower text. What's interesting about this lower text is it's also
the Koran. And so, but it's not the same Koran. It's not the same text because why would you
remove a text and then write the exact same text over it again? That's not what happened.
What happened is the text below it is a different text type. So it's not the authentic text.
Every single other manuscript that we have right now, which is hundreds of manuscripts,
are all of the authentic text type. All of them are part of the standard text,
which really shows that it was a clear standardization effort at some point.
Except for this one. This is an exception. This manuscript has
slightly different wording. That's really the difference. So the verses are more or less in
the same order, but the sura, so that's the chapters, are in different orders than we used to. So
that's interesting. That has been thrown about. And the wording is a little different. So every
now and then, you're like, okay, that's not exactly how we have it in a standard text. So
that's very exciting because now we have one example of what the Koran could have looked like
or did look like before the standardization. The standardization has erased a lot of that.
So we don't have much access to it. And this is one of the very examples where we can get access
to it. I'm going to show a few examples we can go through, but I just want to make a comment.
Dr. Sean Anthony was telling me, and I don't know, I can't remember if we were still recording
or not, but he was like, I was a little disappointed because when I got into Islamic studies,
the Koran and whatnot, he was saying that he was hoping to find a like a crazy, oh my gosh moment,
like for example, when we found out that the sinful woman or the adulterous woman,
this is interpolation, or we find out that the Trinity in first John is interpolated,
or we find out the ending of Mark wasn't really there or like, you know, things like that that
are like, whoa, he was like, I was hoping we'd find something like that. But no, what we have is
pretty fixed. That doesn't mean there wasn't something, but it's gone. And anyway, we'll get
in all that. But yeah. So it's okay if I jump off of that for a little bit. Yeah, please, please.
So no, it's true. So you really want to have like some really, really exciting things. Yeah.
And even the sound that puts us, I mean, it's exciting in all kinds of ways and exciting.
We get excited about it, because it's so rare for us to see any variants at all.
Usually, it's just the standard text and that's it. And here we have a text, which is actually
different. Is it massively different? No, no, it's obviously Koran, like the moment you look
at it, like this is not something else. And there's not even like missing verses. I think there's
like one place where verses missing where the standard text has one. But other than that,
it's just, it's basically the same text is, you know, the word, it's something slightly
differently. So it doesn't have the kind of wow effect, even this one. So I can see how anyone
could be somewhat disappointed by it. But you know, there's other reasons to be very excited
about it. Yeah, I mean, I think if you're finding anything at that point, it's like anything's
better than nothing. If you're looking for it, anything's better than nothing. So here's our
first example. We have the lower text number one, if you would tell us what's going on here,
if you don't mind. And can you comment on this? Yeah, I mean, so what you can see is basically,
you know, we have the standard text on the left and the standard text on the right. And
in general, what we see is that the wording is just a little difference. I mean, basically,
that's what it comes down to, right? There's no,
there's no real, you know, that I mean, that's a bit of a difference. So, you know, it's translated
here as so keep away from wives during menstruation and do not approach them until they are pure
and the others. So do not get near wives during menstruation until they are pure. And when they
have purified themselves, right? Okay, I mean, does it have a big effect on the thing? But this
is the kind of typical variants that you find. So you find, you know, slightly a couple of extra
words, it might be that wordier, it might be less wordy. And these kinds of things are exactly what
you see in the in the in the son of analysis. So that's kind of what's what's going on with it.
Yeah, I guess one comment as we get to the next one is, do you personally think the sauna lower
text, if you will, is older than the the established, you know, because if you think it's
potentially older, it doesn't change too much. But it does say like, we have a fixed text,
I wonder what was going on maybe behind this, you know, maybe this is a primitive version or
a, I don't know, I don't know, what is your personal opinion? Yeah, yeah. So that's something I think
I can answer quite easily. So it's very likely that it's older. It's probably written down before
the standardization of the text, or it's a copy or something else written down before the standardization
of the text. But if we look at the radio carbon datings of that manuscript, it may very well be
before colonization that it was written down. So it's good. I mean, it's very difficult to say
with carbon dating to to be that sure, you know, we're talking about decades, not centuries.
So, yeah, it really is a, I mean, what we probably to biblical studies person, this would not be a
different text type. It's basically the same text, right? I mean, they have so many more variants
that it's like it wouldn't even occur to them to call it a different text type. But what we can say
about it is that the text is not a descendant of the Earthmanic text. It's not, you know, we had
the standard text, and someone was just being a very terrible scribe. No, this is really a
separate tradition. And those two separate traditions go back to an older tradition together.
And that all that must have also been in written form. So there was some kind of kind of text from
which these have descended. And this text is just a variant of a earlier text. And it's very
similar in many ways to the reports we have, which is one of the reasons why it's so exciting.
We have reports of companions of the Prophet who had their own codices and had differences in their
wording. And on the one hand it's like, okay, and this is transmitted in the tradition. So in the
Islamic tradition, they say, okay, even muscle would use to read like this and this, which seems
to be being completely uncontroversial. By now, some people started doubting this is really true,
etc. But they thought it was perfectly reasonable to talk about variant readings that are not in the
standard text. And, you know, and other people just had different versions of the text before
standardization. Now, some people admit that and will say, yeah, but everybody came in agreement
that actually the authentic text is the best thing ever made. There's some reasons to doubt that.
But certainly, these were around. And what's interesting about it, because we have these
reports. And well, of course, if you're an historian, so we have these reports, but those are not the
manuscripts. So do we really know whether it must have this text, or are they just making it up to
make a theological point, which has often been suggested. But now we have this text, the Sana'a
Palimpsest, the lower text of the Sana'a Palimpsest, which is really very similar to the kinds of
variants that get reported for, for the companions. So even Masood is one of the important
companions here. He had his own codex, had differences in Sura order, basically, and had
exactly these kinds of variants. And some of the variants even that we find in Sana'a Palimpsest
are ones that are reported to exist for companions. And it doesn't fit with any specific companion.
So we can say, well, the Sana'a Palimpsest is just even Masood's codex. That's not what's happening,
at least if we trust those reports. But it's very similar. So similar, in fact, that it really
lends a lot of credibility to those reports as well. It really suggests, yes, there were different
text types before the colonization of the text. And they kind of look like this. And basically,
they look just like what we see in the Sana'a Palimpsest, which is really exciting.
Interesting. All right, next example. We have another one. It's a lower text.
What is going on here? Can you tell us like the difference that's happening here? And if there is
any, like if we notice it in any of the examples I'll bring up, like anything that you drastically
could point out, I think that's important. Because I mean, at the end of the day, for me,
I'm just speaking of someone who's a skeptic, who doesn't actually ontologically believe any of
these religions. I still want to find, let people know, like, if you're a skeptic and you're watching
this, you don't have to die on the hill of textual like, oh, see, like you can look at other
examples, other things that you can maybe point out and go, okay, all right, the two horned man,
right? Like, this is Alexander, right? Or you can, there's other things. I just want to point
that out for people like who want to die on this hill of everything has to be, there's got to be
this corruption going on in these manuscripts or whatever. But I do want to see if there's any
differences. And if they are, can you illuminate those for us? Yeah. So, like with this verse,
once again, I mean, basically, the wording is different, right? And, you know, the translation,
so we get this, which you'd expect to be spelled, which is interesting. You'd expect an extra
and it's behind this final letter. I'm not sure if that's a typo within the thing or like that in
Santa Palimpsest, which we're interested in on itself. But anyway, so, so, you know, where the
one says, you know, they disbelieved, and the other one says they increased in their disbelief,
which is, well, I mean, like I said, I mean, yes, it's the textual variant. And it does something
to the text. It's not like, you know, they're doing something completely different. But it's
really, like I said, you know, I mean, is this really what you want to go for if you want to talk
about the lyrics of the text? I don't think so. And, you know, the other bit, so there's a bit
of an extension. So there's more text there. But the text doesn't, I mean, it's not, it's not
like, you know, Sean Anthony said, you know, maybe a bit disappointing is like, we're not, we're not
getting a total new, new theology out of text. And that's, I think, an important thing to point
out. You know, the Santa Palimpsest is cool. It's interesting. There's all kinds of variants going
on. It's interesting, because it gives us some sense of what, how people understood the Quran to
be before the canonization, which is very difficult to get insight into in other ways. And clearly,
there was room for this kind of thing, right? It wasn't wrong to word a verse slightly differently
than another person. And there are reports like this, and I think we'll talk about that later
as well. Now, would you say that that's an anachronistic traditional, like, they're imposing
that idea that there can't be like, yes, because there's this idea that, and correct you if I'm
wrong, I've been told that the tradition has it that the angel Gabriel gives it exactly the way
from Allah. And this is the eternal text. And that like, you can't have one guy say even a slight
dot differently, you know, and that's, so it depends a lot on, I think, I think the tradition
itself gets a bit misunderstood in this. And it's, you know, these things develop as you
start polemicizing, and as, you know, these things go unchallenged for longer and longer.
Yeah, no, I mean, it's not, it's not a direct transcript. And, you know, one way to get out
of it is like, okay, apparently, Gabriel revealed multiple versions of the text. And, and that's,
that's what he did. And you know, I mean, it's an angelic being he sees, he's,
he has the power and the power of God behind him. So of course, he can do that, you know,
he can, he can have six mouth and say six different things at the same time.
And so I mean, it's a miracle. So, so of course, you can say this.
Anything is possible in the land. And it seems also, but the thing is,
clearly, there was room for slightly different versions of the text and nobody thought this was
shocking. And it's completely uncontroversial to the extent like if you look at the early,
early exegetes who are talking about the Quran, they'll say, you know, this person, here's,
here's some kind of interesting grammatical thing. And by the way, Ibn Mas'ud used to read this
this verse in this way. So therefore, etc. And that was not considered a problem. It's just,
okay, yeah, some people read the text differently. And it doesn't agree with the standard text. And
that's where it goes. And, you know, they believed in the authority of those campaigns that it was
acceptable. So there's that kind of thing going on with this. So yeah, I mean, if you say yes,
sure, it's a direct transcript of how the Prophet heard it. Yeah, maybe, I don't know. It's just,
it's just no way to say. Awesome. But yeah, basically that. Okay, I'll do our final one on the
Sana, the Palimpsest manuscript. Here we go. So this is lower text as well. And what do you see
happening here? Is there any potential drastic change here in some sense? This one is kind of
kind of drastic, right? You know, and translation just seems fine. So one thing that's kind of
interesting, and this is very typical, is the final word is different. So you get,
in the modern Quranic text, you get al-Muhtadeen. And in the Sana, you apparently get al-Muflihain.
You know, that's the rightly guided or successful or whatever. Both of them rhyme. And it is a typical
kind of thing that you would see in kind of oral performance, right? Where it's like, okay, well,
we need to get to a rhyme. Let me come up with a word that will rhyme here just nicely and find,
and let's put it in there. And that's very typical in a kind of, you know, and this is kind of what
we need to think about in the early pre-khanalization time. Probably people wrote some stuff down,
but they also memorized a lot, and they did it from memory, or semi-memory, and these kinds of
things. And apparently you could, you know, switch out the rhyme word in these kinds of
case. Like, okay, I know that that works as final. We'll do that. And that's interesting. And you
can do something about it. And it kind of reveals that. So that's an interesting part. And the other
part is like, okay, I know that it's actually saying something slightly differently. And ultimately,
you know, whether it is talking about what jihad or salat and zakat, I think.
Right. What is the difference there? What is give zakat, and what is jihad?
Well, so I open up a can of worms. No, I mean, it's not no. So, you know,
establish prayer and get zakat. So zakat is alms, right? So you do things. And
do jihad, in the name of Allah, I mean, yes, those are very different things. The way we understand
jihad is, of course, a question, you know, it's struggle in some way, which either means, you know,
actual violence and military struggle, or some other sense. And we don't have enough context
to really make sense of what it means here. But it's clearly saying something differently.
Is establishing the prayer and giving zakat, is that jihad? I don't know. I don't know.
That's an interesting question. A question for theologians, I think, to figure out whether
you can see it that way. But basically, I mean, those are different things. And that's
a pretty significant variance. I think it's interesting. I mean, for me, and I don't know
Jack Squat compared to you guys when it comes to it. But when Dr. Sean Anthony talks about these
early concepts and ideas, even from the enemies of Muhammad, who speak of him in this sense of like,
you know, the Jacob doctrine of Jacob, if you will talk about, he's going to bloodshed and that he's
got the keys to paradise. Well, it sounds like an early rise of an empire that is definitely out
here. And then jihad is associated with that. If the if the sauna manuscript is earlier, I wondered
if, for whatever reason, we're not in a con, we're not conquesting here in this particular concept.
We want prayer and zakat. We're not interested in. Well, so we'll begin our way around, right?
Because I think I think I think the jihad one is the one that it's in the sauna, palimpsest.
Yeah, that's what I mean. Oh, yeah, exactly. So yeah, I guess, but it's like the conquest
also still going on. And, you know, by the time that the Atlantic text was established. So it's
not so. So, you know, it's hard to say whether they're doing something in that sense. You know,
I mean, they continued with that. So it's not that it was a say, a anti conquest agenda for
for for for us, man, man, you know, just continued conquest, right? More important than 100, of
course, even so. Yeah, so, you know, it kind of makes you wonder, okay, why is that variantary?
It's quite different. And I wonder, I wonder how people would interpret that. I'm not sure.
Maybe down the road, I could get your thoughts on it, because I definitely see
a lot of apocalypticism, as I said, in Judaism Christianity, and in the seventh century with
Jewish and Christian thought. So here we have this rise of an apocalyptic movement. And I and
Jihad seems to be associated with apocalypticism in some sense, based on what I heard from Dr. Anthony.
So it makes me kind of wonder if like they're getting, I don't know, it's just so many ideas.
Okay, next question. We're talking about variants. Are there any significant meaning changes
due to any of the variants? And if you want, I can go ahead and jump into an example. But
yeah, a significant one, since you said a very few.
Yeah, so we'll jump in a couple, I think. So we'll talk about that. But I mean, there are
meaning differences. And every now and then, they are reconcilable. And sometimes they're not. And
I think it's probably reasonable, and you should be trying to reconcile them in some way,
if that's a possibility. But every now and then, they don't. And the question is, okay, well,
are they significant? So, and that really depends on, of course, your theology, your
understanding and what you call significant. So there's a famous one, and this is the,
you know, the enunciation that Mary is going to be pregnant and get a child. And the angel comes
down and says, you know, I've been sent by the Lord, in order to give you that I give you
a pure son, or that he gives you a pure son. And there's kind of an interesting thing going on
there is that I give you, he gives you, it's like, okay, so he gives you, which doesn't actually
work with the standard text, but some of the readers still read it that way. Is that in order
to avoid the suggestion that this angel himself will be impregnating Mary? You know,
there seems to be some kind of theological motivation there. Of course, you can also say, well,
no, he's just, you know, being, being, and it is also reasonable and accepted reading.
He's just announcing, you know, I'll be, I'll be giving you a child through the power of God,
no problem. You know, there's no wheel impregnating going on anyway. So you can see how they would
avoid a reading like that. But it's both of our completely canonical, they are both probably
saying the same thing. And I don't think the wording of I will give you a pure son
is trying to suggest that, that the angel is doing the impregnating or these kinds of things,
right? That's just how you could interpret it. But pretty sure the Quran didn't intend that,
you know, the text of the Quran or so the composer of the Quran intended that to be the case.
It's pretty clear that, you know, power comes from God and that kind of thing. It's just one way
he might make a little clear it any other way. Right. So that's a nice example of, you know,
pretty significant variants. And yeah, basically, I've got some more we can get into, if you don't
mind, get your thoughts on. So all right, here's one variant. What do you see happening? This is a
very famous one. So, because it's very nice. It's a very long verse. And it talks about
how to perform ritual prayer, well, how to perform the ablutions before that. So, you know,
you're the washing of yourself. And then you have this one word, which only differs in a single vow.
So that's ar julakum and ar julikum. And it's really interesting, like sometimes even so it
mentions here Hafs and Susi, Susi is the transmitter of Abu Amr. But even the,
the other transmitter, so, so, so say, the co-student of Hafs Shaba reads it differently from Hafs.
Hafs is the standard, well, is the most resided version of the text right now.
And he transmits from us. And what it comes down to, it's kind of a small grammatical detail
where the case changes of the words, which makes it unclear. So basically, one thing is,
we cannot see, since it's a vowel and you don't write vowels, you cannot see this difference
in the written text. So if you have the authentic text, this is genuinely ambiguous. The only way
that you can know is when someone taught you which one or two it is. I think you can make a case
that one is maybe more probable than the other. But the point is, what it comes down to is whether
you should be washing or wiping your feet. So do you just wipe them or do you actually wash them
with a full thing? And, you know, these things come down to sectarian differences. I always
forget which one is worse. But anyway, it comes down to the Sunnis and Shi'i difference in how
to do the ablutions. So, you know, that does a significant difference. And it's just a tiny
thing, just a tiny vowel, and it changes everything. So that's the thing that can happen.
Thank you. Thank you. Up to another example.
Right. Yeah. So here we get, you know, Sahrani or Sahrani, which indeed translates to something
like two words of magic, two magics, or two pieces of magic supporting each other, or two magicians.
So, you know, they're two magicians. Well, which one is it? So what's kind of interesting about
this, I suppose, and you get this every now and then with these readings, it's in direct speech,
you know, and if direct speech is supposed to be transmitting what people, historical people,
or figures actually said, it's like, okay, which one did they say? And sometimes you get very absurd
solutions, where modern Muslims try to harmonize, you just like, well, they said both, they just
said it both in a row, which is obviously not what happened. It's like, no, it's one out of two.
And both of our close enough, right? These meanings. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Probably change the meaning of the text. But it's, but it's, but they are different, and they mean
something differently. And they're technically irreconcilable, if you assume that they are both
direct transcripts of a real historical event in that sense. Right. And that's not what it's about.
It's about, it's about the truth of the meaning of the text, and not the truth of the event of
the text, right? That's not what it's talking about. It's using the event in order to, to, to
tell something. And that point is made, you know, is basically brought across regardless of how you
read it. And as I said, this reminds me of how Orthodox Christians, Eastern, you know, Roman
Catholic or whatnot, view inspiration versus others who view, and their definition of what
inspiration means is different. So one is demanding reconciliation and harmonization no
matter what it is. I can, I can show you, like, and I'm using the Bible as an example, right?
Where Jesus is saying, go to Galilee, wait for me. Luke and John do not say Galilee. They say,
go to Jerusalem. And then what a Christian will do later is go, Oh, no, no, no, they first went
to Galilee, but then they went to Jerusalem. And it's like, they can't know these aren't
reconcilable. But it's like, I guess, if you're going to have that kind of requirement on what
you expect to harmonize and be inspiration by your definition, well, don't know, scholarship's
going to come out. So I think you're pointing out scholars and even practicing Muslim scholars
are recognizing, and this is not like a, this is not a death blow. This is not.
And I think, I think it's very important to point this out, actually, what you're saying is,
um, if you look at the exegetes, so the medieval exegetes, when, when they are commenting on these
kinds of things where, where two things can technically not be true at the same time,
that, that doesn't bother them. They just say, okay, well, this means this and this means that.
And it, it, it doesn't even incur to them to start talking about, okay, well, apparently
there's a contradiction here. Um, no, this means this and this means that. And the, the
sometimes say, I think this reading makes more sense. Um, without saying the other one is bad,
they might, they, they, they just, you know, it's like, okay, I think there's more fitting.
Um, and, and sometimes they will say something is bad. I mean, I'm sure they wouldn't with this
one because it's so insignificant, but it's like, it didn't, didn't seem to indeed not bother them
that that was a contradiction. You know, it wasn't, it wasn't contradictory to them. And, um,
and you see that that, that is at least for some, um, uh, Muslims now, uh, changing, and they do
want to reconcile this and do want to understand this. And I think it's a, it's, um, it's probably a,
a, a result of the modern times where we have a very, I don't know. Well, I mean,
sometimes comes off as a kind of, kind of Christian envy who have also, you know,
end of the backwards to, to get rid of certain, certain things. And you're like, I mean, let's,
let's not do this. And it seems, seems perfectly reasonable to, to not, you know, just deal with,
with these things and it's like, okay, is Jesus any, any less divine to a Christian if, if, you
know, these, these events are not perfectly exact? No, of course not. And the same is true for the
Quran. Um, so. Well put. Yeah. That, that's kind of how to think about that. Yeah. Yeah. And I,
I'm totally on board with you because that's the church for well over a thousand years,
well over, I mean, maybe even more, I mean, 1500, you know, this wasn't an issue. I think
Protestantism came in and it caused more of a, we need to, we need to get back to the text and
everything has to be like, you know, so anyway, final example of variant that, that we have here.
Yeah. Oh, this is an interesting one. Um, so yeah, a couple of examples here and this is,
this is typical. Um, so what we get here is, is a verb, which means he said, which may also be
read as cool, uh, which means say, and, um, well, as you can see in this translation,
which I quite like is they, they, they found a way to get around that, right? Either the Prophet said
or say, oh, how about, uh, basically you're doing the same thing, right? It means exactly the same
thing. The thing is this is a place where the text is ambiguous. So in the earliest manuscripts,
um, whenever you write Kala, which means he said, you read exactly the same school,
they're indistinguishable from each other. And as a result, you see that one reader, if, if both
readings make sense. I mean, a vast majority of the time only Kala makes sense. Uh, and you're like,
okay, well, there's no doubt that it just means he said, and a vast majority of the times only makes
sense. Say, uh, but every now and then you come in a, in a context where like, well, I guess both
readings would work and both readings come to be. Uh, and then you indeed end up with Hafs reading
Kala and, and what's reading Kul. And that's basically, basically what is happening. Um,
but that seems, that seems to be an interpretational thing. Um, uh, and Muslims would often say,
you know, both of these versions were revealed. Um, but it's clearly stemming from a ambiguity in
the text where that ambiguity and text wasn't there when it was being said or, you know, being
whispered into the ear. It's there because the scripts cannot distinguish these two words. Um,
so you don't, and you're like, okay, well, it could be either. I guess it can be done in both
ways. And it wasn't spelled with that on purpose. That's also something you hear a lot, you know,
spelled with that on purpose in order to accommodate both. No, it's just, that's the way you spell
it's, you know, just like, um, I don't know. Uh, I'm trying to think of an English analogy or
something like, you know, just like how you write enough with a G H at the end, which is an insane
thing to do, but that's just how you spell it. And that's how you're supposed to do it. You know,
it was just happens to be a very strange reading with an F at the end. Um, so, so, so that's kind
of what, what's going on with these. So there's clearly, there's clearly, and this happens with
the readings. Every now and then it's, you're like, well, obviously this reading is being,
being generated by the text and they are looking at the text and like, okay, I could read this in
two ways. Both of them make good sense to me and one person came to a different conclusion than the
other. And, um, and every now and then you're like, well, these words have nothing alike. Um,
but they are spelled exactly the same because of the ambiguities of the scripts. So, um, the famous
one is you get, um, which are, you know, words that are just completely dotted differently,
but the dots aren't there. So they sound different. They're very different words,
but you could read them both written down. Clearly the written form is what's primary here and not
the pronounced form. And, um, since there was no written form of the text when the revelation
was supposed to happen, these can't both be revelation in that sense. Um, and Muslims tend
to have different intuitions about that. Um, so, you know, you're like, no, no, look, it's clearly
based on the text and they're like, well, no, I, you know, that, that's just part of the miracle
and it can be part of the miracle. It's just, you know, I mean, a miracle is not something we
can work with if we want to say something about the history of the text. That's true. I mean,
when you're working his, with historical data, yeah, that's that, that's an interesting point
about miracles. All right. So I've got some questions here and then I have a few examples
if we have time to just ask briefly at the end. So I'm going to try and get through these with you.
There's a lot here. What exactly is the dialect of the Quran? And is that, is that the dialect
Muhammad was speaking in? Historians say some Arabic pronunciations are lost.
Yeah. Okay. Well, so, so basically this, this is going to be my new book. Um,
so, so, so there's a couple of interesting questions here. So first of all,
we have the Quran and there are now, so first of all, seven canonical reading traditions that
three more were added. And basically everyone has agreement. Those 10 are half authority.
And then there's a couple of more that people disagree about, but basically nobody actually
disagrees. It's those 10. And those 10 are linguistically different from one another.
Um, in all kinds of, you know, grammatical ways or most importantly, pronunciation ways,
which is to say, you know, one word might be pronounced differently from one to the other.
Just to give you an example. So the world's a dunya is pronounced by someone's a dunye.
Word means exactly the same thing. You're pronouncing it differently. So which of the two
is the correct one? That's one question. If any could be, you know, to disagree with each other,
which one is it? And I think it's very reasonable to assume that, you know, when, when, when, um,
the prophet, uh, recited the Quran, he, um, presumably did that in a language that people
could actually understand. So that's one thing. And, um, and presumably the local dialect, that's,
that's, I think is to be expected. The question is, of course, we need to test the hypothesis
because that's not actually a popular opinion, uh, even, uh, among Western scholars. Um,
so, so we had these readings and they are linguistically irreconcilable. And what's
interesting about them is they are even irreconcilable within themselves. So
what people very often say with the readings like, well, they're just dialects. Well,
they're not, they really are not. We have very good descriptions from medieval grammarians
who say this tribe says it like this, and this, and this, and this other tribe does it that way,
that way, and that way, and that way. And not a single one of the canonical readers
follows any of those patterns. So we actually have a good idea of what, for example, the dialect
of Hijaz, so that's the region where, where, uh, Muhammad had his prophecy, basically. Um,
nothing looks like that dialect over there. They are all mixed with all kinds of different
things. So every now and then you get a form and that's, you know, typically Hijazi. And then
you get another thing that is typically non-Hijazi and they both show up sometimes even within a
single word. And if you would follow, follow the descriptions of the grammarians, you're like,
well, I could read this word in like these five different ways. And this dialect, you would read
like this. And this dialect, you'd read like this. And this dialect, you read like this.
And not a single one is the actual pronunciation that we have in the Quran.
Um, so it's, it's being mixed from all kinds of different places. Another question is, to what
extent is that being mixed? Is that part of the, say the performance register that kind of develops
over time, which is what I would say is the case? And to what extent is that, was that part of the
character of, of the language of the Quran itself? So the language of revelation, so to speak. And
many scholars think that, you know, there was a kind of, kind of high culture language, which was
this kind of weird mixed thing that people use in poetry and also used to compose the Quran.
And I say, well, you know, there's something, that's something we can test that that's a test
why, but this is why the Quran is very, uh, helpfully written in rhyme. So I come at this as
a linguist, um, which is not a background many people in, in, in Quranic studies have. I'm like,
okay, well, I mean, that's very obvious. I mean, that's how we've always shown, you know, for example,
to figure out how Shakespeare and English sounded and how it sounded different from us
is by looking at his rhyme. We can see from the rhyme that he pronounced it words differently
than we do today. And we can reconstruct what it sounded like. So you do this. And let's take the
example, uh, Dunye, for example, that I just mentioned. Um, so you get this difference between
vowels, the A and the A vowel, which some of the readers have, and then other readers do not have
that. So some readers have more vowels than other readers. And we can look at the rhyme because
those words show up in rhyme. And what we see is that words that are pronounced with A can only
be pronounced with A, which clearly shows that that was a different sound from the A and that
you're supposed to pronounce it. So you can kind of look at the rhyme and say, okay, we can reconstruct
what it sounded like. Now, not every single word sends in rhyme, of course. So we cannot
completely know every single aspect of pronunciation, but we can really learn a couple of things.
And once you start doing that, if we start looking, okay, what shows up in rhyme, how are
words actually spelled where people say, well, these are differences between dialects. What we
get and we make this list is okay. So not looking at what the reading traditions do because the
reading traditions sometimes just break rhyme because of these kinds of things. But what does
a text actually tell us? What can they tell us from spelling? What can it tell us from the rhyme?
And if you start doing that, you learn something very nice because what you get every single time
when there's a place where we could check it in the text. So not on the reading tradition,
but purely check it from the text. Every single time the linguistic features that we find there
are associated with Hejaz. And specifically even the tribe of the Quraysh, which was the tribe of
Muhammad, every single time, which suggests to me that the Qur'an was not written down or even,
you know, revealed in some poetic language that all the Arabs were able to speak in the
composed poetry. And no, it was written in the local vernacular, which makes very good sense
because, you know, people want to hear the revelation. And the Qur'an even goes out of
its way to make this point. It says, look, our revelation is in Lisan Arabic, that is in the
Arabic language, so that you may understand the clear Arabic language. Clearly, and it's even saying,
and it's not foreign, clearly making, I would say, and this is isn't a thought not by me,
but written by Hanna Jalad, who said, look, it is not saying this text is in a magical poetic
language that people use. No, it's saying it is in a vernacular unlike the Bible, which is in Aramaic
or Greek, right, unlike the Hebrew Bible, which is in Hebrew. This text is actually one you can
actually understand. So, you know, when I start speaking this text and telling you about these
things, you can hear directly what it means. I think that that is very good. And I think that
is right. If you actually look at the text, that's what you see. What's more interesting,
even there's traditions and pretty good traditions of the early compilation of the
authentic texts, where a couple of the people are in disagreement with each other, how they're
supposed to write a certain word. And then they go to Othmanus like, like, what should we be doing?
And he says, look, you need to write down the Quran in the dialect of the Quraysh because that
is how it was revealed. Well, if that's true, assuming that's true, which I think is actually
in this case, but if that's true, that's not what people are reciting today. What they're
reciting today absolutely is not the dialect of the Quraysh at all. So clearly something
changed. The language that the Quran is reciting has indeed been changed to something much closer
to like the language of poetry and these kinds of things. But it seems to have originally been
composed and written down in the dialect of the Quraysh. Wow. Okay, you really put some lightbulbs
off in my head too. And I wondered if, and I was thinking about biblical studies, right? Because
I try to relate because I see similarities in the way that historians are doing this, but also how
religions and these texts are built. People, for example, are allegorizing things. And I think
they're doing so because they don't want the original to be as ugly. They're like, hey, you see
this happen a lot. But I wonder in linguistic terms, if this plays a significant role as to why
they've, oh, this magical text. So now it's a magical language that is ambiguous and it requires
some other thing for you to understand it so that they can have an interpretation that suits what
they want in contemporary times to fit their idea. I don't know. Is that something? Yes. So it's not
so strongly that. I mean, it's very much a linguistic thing. So it doesn't have that effect. The effect
it does have, of course, is to some extent recitation of the Quran becomes a job, right? This is
something you do. And it's something you can be good at. It's something people can find beautiful.
And what you will do, especially as, you know, the Islamic era progresses, poetry starts having
a incredible prestige and open up any book. It doesn't need, it could be about the driest thing
you can think of. And you would think this has nothing to do with poetry ever. You open it up.
And any book is full of poetry. You open up histories, Arabic histories, poetry. You open up,
I don't know, a book about the precise pronunciation of the Quran. You'll find poetry.
And that's very dry material. I think it's very interesting, but it's incredibly dry.
And poetry is there. It's everywhere. And so I would say, so the prestige of this kind of poetic
language becomes very, very high and develops over time, like what is the way to do it? And
that's what we call classical Arabic today. And, you know, these, this poetry has incredible
prestige. And then there's the Quran, which is supposed to be the best book, best piece of
literature ever written. I mean, that's, that's what Muslims believe. And, and that's somehow
in some weird, you know, local vernacular from, from Hejaz. No, of course not. It should be in
the poetic language. It's like poetry, because it's the best language there is. And that seems
to have kind of affected, and not people who are good at this. So many, many reciters were also
grammarians. Al-Kisa'i is famous as both a reciter and a grammarian. And they, part of, part of
their job to be a good reciter is to use this kind of language and make these kind of choices and do
exotic things with the language. And they're really doing that. You can see them playing, play around
with this. Famous is, for example, Hafsal, the most common transmitter of the most common reading
today. He has a couple of words which he will read the same way every time for like 200 times,
except one time where he'll read the word slightly differently, only pronunciation,
but only once, which has absolutely no function except that to just show off, hey, I know that
you can read it like this too. Check it out. I know it. And, you know, it's part of kind of part of
the play of the language. And that's what they're doing. So they're really playing around with
this language and trying to make it more beautiful and figuring out how to make it beautiful and
really interacting and showing off their prowess in this classical Arabic language and what they
can do with it and how they understand how many, how many good details they know. So that's kind
of what's going on with the language. Hmm. Oh, there's a lot there. Okay, okay. So does anyone
even know what does Ahruf mean? Can you elaborate on the 40 different opinions?
Yes, yes. Well, I'm not going to elaborate on all 40 of them. No, no, no, but it's an important
point. So I'll tell a little bit about this. So this is a famous hadith about the Prophet.
And there's a couple of different versions of this, but what it basically always comes down to
is the Prophet. So a couple of people, campaigns of the Prophet are reciting the Qur'an and they
come into conflict because they're reciting it differently. And they go to the Prophet and they're
like, well, this guy is, you know, reciting in this way. I'm reciting it this way. What's right?
And in both cases, you know, that's how it was revealed. And they're like, okay, what does that
mean? How is that possible? How can it be revealed? And he says, well, the Qur'an was revealed in
seven ahruf. So ahruf is a plural of harf, which in normal Arabic, I would say means
word or letter. So seven letters, seven words. Neither of those make much sense. So that can
be the right meaning. It can also mean edge, which doesn't make sense either. So that can be it. But
the intended meaning is I think pretty obvious is there was variation. I mean, assuming that
the Prophet actually said this, which I'm willing to go a limb of probably true. I mean,
it's a very, very widespread tradition, which is really, really ancient. So you go all the way.
Sorry, I got distracted for a second. Oh, yeah. So it's a very ancient, ancient tradition. And
it's clearly about disagreement about how you should be reciting the things. Now,
we have sanna apalamsas. We can see that there can be these differences in meaning. Like,
in general, the text is sort of the same. But there is nevertheless something going on
where people can choose slightly different differences. And they probably went into those
like, okay, what's going on with this house is possible. And he just says, well, clearly you
can make some variation. And then, okay, what does this harf mean? And what does this seven mean?
So there's a question, is it exactly seven or is seven a magical number? And I think, you know,
with your background in Christianity, you'll be ready to say, no, that's probably a magical number.
But a lot of people try to make it a exactly seven in these many opinions. Some of them
have said it's seven dialects. And then other people said, no, that doesn't make any sense,
because these people are arguing with each other over the contents of the text or both Quraishi.
So they will be speaking the same dialect. So, you know, why would they be disagreeing on this?
So that can't be it. But it's a very popular opinion. You still hear it a lot today,
despite it being very obviously wrong. There's seven layers, seven heavens, seven earths,
there's so many. Yeah, it sounds more mythological. So to me, clearly, it's not a literal number,
but it is clearly about people recite the Quran in different ways. And all of that is fine,
as long as you don't screw up the meaning of the text. And that's even what some of the versions
have this, like, don't mix up a verse of wrath with a verse of grace and these kinds of things.
So you shouldn't be mixing up the wording if it doesn't make sense anymore.
So that's kind of what it comes down to. It has something to do with this kind of oral
period of the Quran, where not everything was written down in the standardized text and people
were disagreeing on what exactly the text should be. And the answer was all, actually,
it's allowed to be all of those things. So it's a very different kind of approach to kind of,
you know, we tend to think of very literal and literalist texts and, you know, we're very much
thinkers in books, right? And books don't change and these kinds of things. And that wasn't the case.
The text was an oral performance, was an oral text, at least to some extent. And it was okay to
have this kind of variation, maybe even part of part of, you know, what it was to be that text.
And that changes once it gets standardized, where less room is possible for these differences.
Wow. All right. So then leads me to the next question. Do you think the Qudran was burned
to eliminate the growing variance in the empire, that expansion taking place?
So, so, so the burning thing that people really, really like this in, in, in, in, in
in polemical circles. And there's reports. I mean, there's reports that say Burdakran. And,
and it's a very strange kind of thing to argue about, because Muslims go, yeah, of course it
were burned, because now we had a standard text. And, you know, everybody agreed that that was
going to be the standard text. So it's a very kind of strange, polemical conversation to have, which
is very asymmetrical, because Muslims don't see an issue with Vernon in the text, and polemicist
too. And so, you know, what do you do with that? But the question of the touristy of the story.
The issue, of course, is if you start burning Quran, you can't find them.
So it's, it's hard to say whether, whether Othman Burton, but we can say a couple of things.
We basically only have the standard text. There's no other text variants around at all,
which seems to suggest if there were lots of them around, they have disappeared.
Where there was lots of them around, we don't know. But if there were, they have disappeared.
What we can see is that the Sana'a problem says, I mean, we do have a different text
type there, but it's been erased off, right? It has not been burned, but it's been destroyed.
And the standard text has been written over it, which clearly shows, I mean, someone thought,
okay, this text is not good anymore, at least for this one, it's one sample. This text isn't
good anymore, we should have the proper text on here, erase the old text and put the new one over.
Wouldn't it be more practical for them to erase it because of the cost of papyri and such?
Right. Well, yes. So parchment, I should say, not papyri.
Parchment, sorry, sorry.
Parchment, which is incredibly expensive, right?
Right.
Um, so when you, when you take parchment, you know, you have to kill animals and you have to
kill hundreds of animals sometimes to, to, to get these things. Um, so yeah, it's much better to,
to, to, to get it off and just ride it over. And that's why people did it.
And it's actually close to a miracle that we've only found three of these. Apparently they really
did not like doing this, um, with the Quran. And actually one of the three palimpsests,
the Quran has been erased and a Christian text has been written over it. So that's not even
comparable. Uh, it's, yeah, it makes you wonder, it's like, what exactly was the social context
where you could erase a really ancient Quranic manuscript and start writing Christian text over
it? Um, in the Islamic world, it's very strange. Yeah. And the other one is a Bible that has been
erased and the Quran has been written over in the standard text of the Quran. Um,
so, so they didn't, didn't like palimpsesting. At least that's, that's what we can see so far.
They really didn't mind swathering a whole bunch of sheets to make the Quran, which
says something about the devotion to the text, I think. Um, but, uh, where was I going with this?
So, um, yeah, where they burned, I don't know, maybe. Um, but it seems at least this one sample
that we have, we see someone who clearly felt, okay, no, the text has become, there's, there's,
there's a new standard text now and we should use that. So something probably happened and
there probably was some kind of decree, okay, you have to follow this text now, whether he actually
had the other ones burned, we don't know, but we have reports quite late. And so, uh, Al Farah,
who is a student of Al-Qusayi, the reader and a famous grammarian from Kufa, he writes at the
end of the second Islamic century, and he still gives eyewitness reports of what was in the must
have of, uh, so in the codex, so clearly he had a copy and he could look at it. And this is 150
years after, uh, of man supposedly burned them all. So if he burned them, he failed, basically.
That's kind of what you, what you, what you end up with. There were clearly some copies around,
even though we don't have them anymore today. I don't think all these authorities were lying
about that. There's no reason for them to lie about it, that they saw it in this must have for
the other. So no, yeah. On those copies just quickly, um, was it like drastically different?
And this is why there, there's this suggestion to burn them? I mean, no, well, well, we don't,
we don't know. We don't know. Yeah, that's the thing. But, but what we have is reports of what
the companion courtesies look like, and those are not drastically different. And we have the
sun up on them says, which is also not drastically different. It's different, but anyone who would
read that would see it's the Quran and most people will probably not realize they're not looking at
the standard texts. They haven't actually memorized it. Um, so, you know, it's like, if you, if you
like, oh, here's the Quran and nobody will go, this is not the Quran. Um, you know, they'll go,
yes, this is obviously a Quran. It's just not the Quran that we have today. Uh, yeah. Thank you.
Awesome. So what is the magnitude of variance between companion courtesies,
Ibn Masud versus Ubey versus Zaid, for example, whole chapters missing according to each?
Yeah, no, that's, that's a good question. Um, once again, difficult to say. Um, so what we have are
reports of where they differ. And we have absolutely no reason to think that those lists are complete.
Uh, but they're pretty long and they really do require a lot of variance.
Uh, you know, for Ibn Masud, especially, and I think we have hundreds, hundreds of variants
with being recorded. And I think it's hard to say, um, whether they, um, whether that's,
that's, that's, that's complete. That's all of it because if it's all of it, it's really not that
much. Um, but if it's only a fraction of the difference, those done, it's quite a lot. It
could be a lot, right? Um, and so there are a couple of other things is, yeah, um,
let me get this right. So Ibn Masud's considered the last two suras and the first sura of Fatihah
to not be part of the Quran and apparently did not have it in his codex. That's what's reported.
Ubey is, isn't Ubey, I think so, uh, is said to have two extra suras. And those have come down
to us. Um, they haven't come down to us as a Quran, but they are in the literary sources.
And, uh, Sean Anthony has written a wonderful article showing all the variants that are being
transmitted, but they're two suras and they're kind of prayers and many people go like, no,
this is not Quran, they're clearly prayers. But I think the only reason why we think they're clearly
prayers is because they're not in the Quran. If they have been in the Quran, everybody has said,
yes, obviously it's the Quran. They're not just prayers that aren't supposed to be part of the
text. Um, I think that's Sean Anthony's opinion too, but I have to check. Um, yeah, but other
people disagreed. I mean, there's also Western scholars that said, no, this clearly isn't part
of the Quran. Um, this is nonsense. And, uh, for stylistic reasons, and I, I just haven't found
them very compelling. I, they look like Iran to me, but they're not in the current text. So at
least somewhat at some point thought this is obviously not the Quran. Um, so, you know, every
now and then people, people tell me like, you know, uh, obviously this is not part of the Quran,
because, you know, it doesn't look anything like it. And like, oh, clearly someone agreed with you
because they're not there anymore. Um, so if I'm apparently shared this opinion, um, so, you know,
maybe, maybe, maybe it's true. Um, so those are, those are, I mean, that's pretty major, I would
say, and missing chapters, uh, if those were actually ever present. Uh, but they haven't been
removed after the standardization, right? So there was a standardization
effort and those two were removed right away. And at Fath House added right away. There was no
difference there. They also had differences in Sura orders. They had differences in wording
within these texts. Uh, but that, that's kind of what's going on there. So yeah, I mean, it's a bit
of controversial point that there seems to be two things that get taken away, but they, they're
prayers and they do very little for the theology of the text. These are not, not the kind of variants
where, um, that, you know, get, get people working on the New Testament that are all excited with,
you know, whole parts is added. We really have some real significant meaning. It's like, no,
these are some kind of prayers and they, they add to the text, but they don't, they don't
radically change how we understand certain passages. Interesting. Thank you. All right. Uh,
do any Mutawatir Kiryat deviate from the Uthmanic Rasm? Yes, they do. Um, so, well, first of all,
Uthmanic Rasm, we'll, we'll go over that word for a second. Uh, so this is the continental text.
Okay. And when Uthman sent us the text, he had a standard text, right? With every single constant
page to be spelled out, and that hasn't really changed much. And readers started following that.
I mean, that was part of the thing. It's like, okay, you have a standard text and everybody can
just start reciting whatever they want. That's not something they did. So people who are from
pre-Uthmanic times and then came in contact with the Uthmanic texts had to start adapting their
reading if it was different from the Uthmanic text, which for many of them, it must have been
because they didn't have that text. Adapting that reading and start reading what it actually said.
Now, Ibn Masood famously opposed this, um, and just continued reciting his own thing. It's like,
my Quran is perfectly fine. Why would I, would I be doing this one? Um, but as this line progresses
and that's a century's grace, people start doing it and start following the text and every single
canonical video that we have today, essentially follow the standard text. However, they do sometimes
take it and very, very tiny points. Um, so there's a, there's a famous one in Surah Taha where the text,
this gets a bit, uh, a bit technical, but we'll do it anyway. We get,
Inna haddani la sahdani, which is, uh, these are not, but, um, but two, uh, sorcerers and
the word these two haddani should have been from a class square, the grammatical point of view,
should have been haddani and with a, yeah, in the middle, which it would write differently,
which would change the text. So it looks like a grammatical error. Um, and it's been called a
grammatical error in the tradition. It's really interesting. So it's a codified grammatical error.
Yes. Kind of like, can I give one example biblically to kind of get our audience to see what I'm
saying? So the, the Psalms 22 famous passage, you know, where it talks about my God, my God,
why have you forsaken me? There's this part where the, the, it seems like the gospel author,
when they're looking at my hands and my feet pierced, that piercing, if you go back to the
Septuagint, the Greek translator of the Hebrew makes, uh, what looks like a grammatical either
mistake or something potentially has a different meaning. It means like a lion at my hands and
my feet, not pierced, so to speak. Some argue it means Doug or this and that, but there are people
who think, no, this is a codified that has been canonized grammatical error that the author of
the New Testament inspired perfectly by the all knowing, I'm just teasing around when I say that.
But the point is he's working off of a text that is codified and it's, it's got some mistake that
doesn't match the, the Masoretic or the Hebrew. So I just wanted to like throw that out there.
It's very comparable. And of course, I mean, actually you said, look at this and like, no,
look, in some dialects, you can say like this and other solutions and there's all kinds of ways to
do it. Um, but one of the canonical readers, Abu Amr, who was also a grammarian and that probably
says something about why he went for this reading, he fixed the reading. He's like, no, this is clearly
ungrammatical. I'm going to read this and have any and the, the lesson be damned. And he, so he
ignores the lesson goes with what he thinks is grammatically correct. And that's what we have
in his recitation. Um, so sometimes that happens. And these are very rare, very rare, but those are
awesome. Those are the fun. I mean, they're fantastic. I mean, it's really fun. It's really
fun to see Abu Amr, especially doing this. I'm planning to write an article at some point about
why or when the readers deviate from the lesson and kind of exploring that thing.
Is that a very interesting page? No, it's not there yet. Um, so I'm still writing it. I should
be writing it, but I haven't started. Well, I have started writing it. It's just not finished.
I think you did some on Twitter with this, right? Like you certainly, certainly talked about this
and just the other day and did some other things as well. Um, these are really interesting ones.
And we have like traditions from, from Aisha saying, so that's the wife to profit, right?
Saying, no, these are mistakes in the, in the must have these are mistakes in the codex.
Just matter of fact, and it's like, okay, let's really go back to Aisha who knows,
but someone quite early on was spreading this tradition. Clearly, he thought it was less
of a problem to say there were grammatical errors in the text than having a grammatical error in
revelation, right? That's where it comes down to. Um, so there's a really interesting, um,
thing going on. So they do that every now and then. They deviate from the text, not always to, to, to
fix grammatical mistakes. Every now and then they will have a variant which is found in other regional
codices. So the, so, um, uh, how's this is a, uh, two times, two times, I think so. Where the
Kulfon codex doesn't have the reading he has, but the Boston one does. So apparently he wasn't
aware of the Boston codex was like, well, you know, that's also Quran's right. I can do this.
So I can permit myself to, to read this differently from the text because I think the text has it
that I have is a bit ugly or something like that. So he felt free to do that. So that's a very
typical thing where they borrow from a different region, uh, of reading. Oh man. This is fun. I
love this. All right. Is there significant variability in manuscripts or manuscript evolution?
Well, once again, significant. Um, no, uh, I would say no, uh, really no. Uh, so yeah, every now and
then you run into variants in the text very often there's scribal errors, you know, just like anything.
And those scribal errors don't really get reproduced. So, you know, we don't see, oh, someone started
scribal error in fourth century and by the, you know, by the 10th century, everybody's writing it
that way. That doesn't happen at all. Um, it's really every now and then you have an occasional
variant and some of them are kind of interesting. Um, so the famous one I just mentioned about,
you know, the angel or God, um, giving a child to, um, to marry, uh, that one shows up in one very
early manuscripts, uh, actually has the, so that he may give you a pure son. And, uh, this is in
the British library manuscript or 2165, where, um, he, yeah, he changed the text and the lesson is
different. So, so, so the continental skeleton has actually been fixed by describe or fixed towards
what he wanted. And so he fixed it that way. And actually, the Santa Palimpses has the same
variant, uh, which is interesting on the lower text. Um, so we're competing with each other
and some people felt like, no, I can change this. But what you don't see is then, because that's in
the Syrian manuscript that, you know, 100 years later, the Syrian manuscripts are still doing this.
No, no, they just get rid of it. They go back to the Santa text. So they clearly very meticulously,
not just copying, but also checking and testing and probably using multiple exemplars to copy from.
So when there were any conflicts, they could say, no, no, we need to go back to the standard text.
So, and those are the significant ones. Yeah. So, so the insignificant ones are even smaller.
So there's really not many. The text is highly standardized. Um, every now and then people go,
you know, the text we have today is 100% the same thing as to do. I think that's wrong.
That's not true. There's hundreds of places where the spelling has changed over time.
But the spelling has changed over time, hasn't had much of an effect. So the example that we just
looked at with, to say, or he said, or say, and he said, Kala and Kul, those used to be spelled
the same in all early manuscripts. But by now, they are not. So now they have added the alif
for Kala to distinguish the two for each other. And that's an ambiguity in the text we take
a bit of. So that's not great. And an orthographic upgrade. That's typical. Another thing is some
spelling start moving towards what becomes a classical Arabic spelling. So the spelling of
the Quran is a bit different from what becomes a classical Arabic spelling. And some of it
starts moving towards that. So another example would be though, which means the one off like
that used to be spelled with three letters. Well, wow. And in the modern text that we have today,
that alif has been removed. It doesn't change the pronunciation. It means the exact same thing.
There's nothing going on. But before it was ambiguous, because before it cleared us, and that
means the two of the two corners, which is probably doesn't make sense there. But in some
place, you could actually get an ambiguous reading there. So that fixed it. And at some point,
that's so that something adhere to very strongly instead of first four centuries.
They really copy meticulously. That disappears in parts of the Islamic world. They continue to do
this in the Mughrab, so that's the North Africa. They continue to do this in Andalusia up until
today. It's an unbroken chain. And the spelling chain is a little bit, but they're very meticulous
about copying this. And the whole books are mostly written by Andalusians saying, you know,
this word is spelled in this way and this way and this way. And it's very similar to
the Masoretic text and Masoretic notes in the Hebrew Bible, if that makes sense.
So it was very strongly controlled. But in the Eastern Empire, or the Eastern Islamic world,
I should say, they stopped caring about this. And they start writing the Quran in Class
Square book orthography. Like, this is such a weird spelling. Why would we do this? We're just
going to write it as normal. So about a year thousand, all of a sudden, we see manuscripts
were just written in perfectly Classical Arabic. And for example, this example I just gave about
Abu Amr reading Hadeini and Divyani from the Rasim. And when the manuscript in this period
starts writing Abu Amr's reading, they also fix the Rasim there. They just follow along
and just change the spelling. The spelling, that connection between the original Rasim of Man
is completely lost. And there's much more of a focus on how is the text actually recited. And
this is probably no surprise that this happens just around the time that the canonical reading
traditions get canonized. So there's a shift in focus from the written text, which was incredibly
important, a very strongly safeguarded towards the oral text. And they would rather have a good
transcription of how the oral performance was done, than stick to the authentic text as it was
decreed by of man. So that's very interesting that there's this kind of shift going on that in
psychology about it. And like I said, that never changes in North Africa. They always just stick
to the authentic text. They're very, very serious about that. And then at some point, when people
start printing the Quran again, they're like, wait a minute, no, we need to think about what we're
doing. And they start introducing the classical that say the North African tradition again. So
basically the text that we have today, print grounds, they're all identical as well. And they
follow the authentic orthography quite closely. There's some differences here and there. But
it's really precise. And it's precise because they use these books, these Masoretic books basically
that said, okay, this is how you're supposed to spell all these words. And they copied it. And
that's what we have today. But if you look at manuscripts from around the same period a bit
earlier, have completely classical spelling in Egypt, for example, in the Ottoman Empire. So
there's a real shift here, like, no, no, we want to get back to the proper spelling again. And
which is something they had lost in that in that region, mostly every now and then you find a
manuscript that does it, but most of them don't. This gets back to real quick on Uthman and this
codified Quran. Do we based on this idea that the Quran is in the 50s? Okay, or really not the 50s?
Yeah, so the 30s, you know, where I was going with that. And there seems to be grammatical errors
or at least it seems like a, is there any codified spelling issues, but yet the oral is good,
even with that codified version? Because if there is, I'm asking just this goes back to the first
question of dot for dot, right? It's like, dot for dot, that is assuming the literary, okay,
not the orality. The orality is where the real poetry where the real, the real powers at in the
tongue, so to speak. Whereas, you know, what we're saying is just textually is there might be something.
So do you think in the Uthmanic codified Quran that there are spelling issues out the gate,
or at least grammatical codified issues out the gate, even if orality is still good?
Yeah, so the thing is, I mean, it's also, it's a difficult question, but the reason why the
question is difficult is, okay, what counts as an error? So coming, coming at this as a linguist.
So linguists describe language and describe language in the system of language. And the result
of that is that any speaker is a good example of how to speak a language, you know how to speak
a language, I know how to speak a language, and that's correct. And even though, say, standard
English says, you can't say, ain't, instead of, I'm not, you know, I ain't, you can't say that,
and people say that, and people find it absolutely unproblematic. That's just how you say it. And
there's no rational reason to say why I ain't is wrong, and I'm not is correct. And all those two are
just acceptable things to do. Now, a lot of these, these variants that we find in that sense,
sort of ones that we're talking about, these grammatical errors, clearly, some people thought
there were grammatical errors, that's why they're being reported. And indeed, from say,
a strict classical, every point of view, they are incorrect. But I'm very reticent to say,
no, those are those, those are actually incorrect, because I can think of a reason,
because I'm a linguist, I can see why, why it will be like that. So probably to someone
that was grammatical, or it was a scribe, or it was very difficult to tell, or we're looking at
a scribe or an error or not. Now, and also the idea that the tribe that they're talking to,
it might fit within their like you talked about, ain't, or if you're in the South,
you're gonna hear that more than I'm not. So, so if you're talking about the, is it the Koresh
tribe? Koresh, yeah, Koresh. That, that, I'll try, I always try. That tribe might play a
significant role in the way that the the literary texts being, I guess, you know, written, I don't
know, does that play a role? Yeah, and also, so it does, to some extent. So, so I think,
I think even, even classical Arabic spelling, but certainly Quranic spelling is just a Koresh
spelling. That's how they wrote Arabic. And if we look at papyri from the same period, that's
what it looks like. You know, it's not, there's nothing magical to that in that sense. But one
interesting thing, which is kind of worth pointing out is, so some words can be written in multiple
ways. And that's, I guess, a closer thing to a scribal error that we find in the Quran. I mean,
it's kind of like, I mean, is that a, is that a mistake? I mean, it's very different. So we have,
I think, like, four autographs of Shakespeare, and he spells his name differently every time,
which shows you something about how people thought about spelling in the pre,
so you say, pre modern period, we don't have, they didn't have that strong a sense of, you know,
this high right of word. And if it's not an indictionary written that way, it's wrong.
So are those, I just know, but what's really interesting about them is that some of these
words can be written in two ways. So I wrote an article about this, you can read it, it's also
open access. And for example, the word, it's this phrase, it means the grace of God. And this first
word, can be either written with one letter or the other. So those are two spelling, so you can
write it has absolutely no effect on the pronunciation, right? You can write it in both ways, not
anymore in classical Arabic, you have to write it in only one way, but clearly in the pre classical
periods, you could write it in both ways, has no effect on the pronunciation, has no effect on
the meaning, it's just two different ways of spelling it. Now, what's interesting about this,
we find this in the Quran, we find both of these spellings, and this phrase, or these kinds of
things, which means not the grace of God, but the grace of your Lord, but these kinds of things.
So this kind of construction occurs 23 times in the Quran. And in the modern print editions,
it's spelled one way 11 times, and the other way 12 times. So basically 50-50, right? It's
uneven numbers, so you can actually go 50-50, that's 50-50. It looks like it was completely
up to describe to do whatever they wanted. The thing is, it wasn't up to the scribes, it was
up to the scribes who first wrote the authentic text, they just wrote and they apparently like,
I'll write it this way this time, and I'll write it that way the other time. And
after that, that became absolutely fixed, as if holy, you could not start changing those
spellings, even though it has no effect on the meaning, no effect on the pronunciation,
they did not fix it. So every single manuscript that you check in the early ones,
you'll find the exact same spelling. So, you know, in one verse, you'll find this. So they
really went to extreme lengths to completely reproduce this. And this is very important,
because what does this show us? It shows us that the text was always written in that sense, and
they really cared about carefully copying every single spelling variant, even if the
spelling variant had no effect whatsoever, they made sure they copied it, which means they certainly
had a written example, or you could not do this by ear because it's pronounced the same. So it
wasn't like someone was reciting the Quran and other people were writing it down, no, they had the
text, looked at how it was spelled, it was like, okay, this is how it's spelled, this is how I'm
going to copy it every single time. And that is very extreme, but it means that we can clearly show
that every single manuscript that we have today goes back to a single archetype, one standardization
text. And the dating of the texts early enough that it must have been around the time of Othman,
it really can't be much later, it could definitely be earlier, I mean, we can't know. But this is
when we see a standard text appear from that point onwards. So it's very, very, it's extremely
precise. And there's nothing really like this, except maybe the Masoretic Text of Hebrew, which
first had a more, a much more chaotic history. But once it gets standardized is also copied in the
exact same very, very precise way. I'm going to switch it on life. Yeah, go ahead, go ahead, go ahead.
Otherwise, I look so dark. This is amazing. I don't want to miss, I don't want to forget
my personal question. I'd love to ask you before we leave here. But I've got a few more. I just
wanted to mention though, on this particular point you bring up, this goes back into what I said with
Dr. Anthony, right? Like, I want to know, what are the building blocks? I'm more of an investigator
who's not going to go, you know, I'm like Scooby-Doo, okay? And they go out, everyone thinks it's
magic, everyone thinks it's a ghost, everyone thinks it's a demon. And then you unmask and you go,
it was a human the whole time. It's always a person behind the curtain, okay? The Wizard of Oz
isn't really a wizard, right? Well, for me, I'm that kind of guy. I want to look at who, what,
when, where, why. And it's most likely, for me, doing historical research, it's got a human explanation
or a natural explanation if a human is not involved. And one of the questions that I had in light of
this that I think was really interesting is that we talked about Judaism, Christianity's influence
on Islam, which I'm not going to get too far into this with you on this episode. Maybe one day we
can talk about things and have a free, not so academic discussion where we just float ideas
around. But one of the things that makes me think about what you just said, how they're so adamant,
even on the spelling difference, which doesn't change a damn thing about how it's pronounced,
it makes me think that they had a playbook to go off of. And what makes me think that,
isn't like, I'm not thinking conspiracy here, but you had Jews that were already doing this
practice. And I very much doubt that they were living in a bubble to the point that they didn't see
that the Jews had a standardized concept of the Masoretic, even though in the ninth century we
have like an official codicy of the Masoretic text, they were practicing this. So were Christians
practicing textual, you know, passing down the literature. So I just think they picked it up
there. That's just my opinion. We don't have to go into it. I can go into it a little bit.
I mean, the clear parallels, especially with the Hebrew Bible,
to the point, I mean, also in terms of reading tradition, these kinds of things, there's clearly
something going on. And sometimes it's very difficult to say who's cross-pollinating who.
The Hebrews themselves, or to say the Jews themselves, also have a moment where you get
the Karaites in the Middle Ages, who have the same kind of effect that Muslims have at some
point that they stop caring about the written text and start caring about recitation. And what
they start doing is they completely let go of the Masoretic text. They don't follow the Masoretic
text at all. They actually start writing the Hebrew Bible in Arabic letters, because it's more
accurate to write the language that way. You can be more precise. And they give them the Hebrew
vowels, because the Hebrew vowels are more precise than the Arabic vowels. So you actually have, and
it looks crazy when you see it, but you actually have Hebrew written in the Arabic text with Hebrew
vowels below them. And these people are the ones who wrote books on the reading traditions of the
Hebrew Bible in extreme detail. And I was very interested in this, because I'm very interested
in reading tradition in general, and was looking for, you know, what are the contexts here, these
kind of things. And then you start reading these books, and you're like, wow, that's nothing like
traditional reading traditions in Arabic for the Quran, which is, I mean, they're very different
traditions and doing different things. And even though the outcome is similar, and they're kind of
in a similar environment, actually, they don't use similar kind of vocabulary. They don't really
think about it that way. They don't even organize the text in the same way. So it was really surprising
to me is like how dissimilar they are. They're similar in many ways, but I was expecting, no,
they must be using the same words for these concepts, and that kind of thing. And they don't do that at
all. They're very different words, which I thought was interesting. Clearly, I mean, there there must
be also this kind of preciseness. I think there's also a kind of an attempt to not be
like the Bible and not be, you know, be the proper final text, have it codified real quickly,
be very precise about it and don't have all these you know nonsense where two sexes of Christianity
can't even agree which books go into the Bible. Exactly. And so I mean that must be playing
in the back of the mind also because the Quran makes that pretty explicit.
That is different in that way. The Quran is here to kind of fix these texts that fix you know the
message that has been messed up by the previous religions and now this will be the real message
and we better safeguard it. And of course even the Quran and this is why it's a miracle to a lot
of people promises the safeguarding of the text. They say the text is preserved because the Quran
says the text is preserved. Of course that's through the actions of men they are preserving the text
and they are very adamant about it which for good reason because if they do not adamant about it
then all of a sudden the miracle isn't true anymore. So there's an interesting kind of thing
going on there. It's a self-fulfilling prophecy but there is a there's a miracle happening and I
can see how how people seeing this very very precise copying and you know my article was very
popular with Muslims who's like look I mean a western scholar shows that the text is preserved
which is true. I do show that the text is preserved from Uthman onwards who knows what was going on
before that. Now how precise I mean like down to the period mark or you know I'm using it in modern
yeah they're really really yeah they're really trying to do that. I just don't think it for me
like someone tried that I didn't know much about this when they came on my channel and they were
like the Quran is a miracle and I'm like I was like shocked to hear it because I don't know the
culture I don't know and I'm like it's a miracle like what do you mean the book itself is and this
and that and people have memorized the whole thing that proves it's a miracle and I'm like
I'm sorry I'm used to people walking on water and the dead rising out of the grave to be a
miracle but I guess it's a different kind of thing and to me it just didn't really shock me it kind
of made me go huh but I'm also you know I'm a skeptic. So I mean but it's certainly worth
appreciating the text is very very very closely safeguarded also the recitation and in these
changes of transmission these kind of things and it's you know depending on you know whatever you do
with the tradition you really end up appreciating just how diligent they were and how serious they
were about how precise they were about it it's really really impressive and beautiful and cool
on that you know it can open up these books and finality things even about the spelling and
that's that's just fascinating I think. Thank you for that I appreciate that all right um three more
questions and I got my final questions I got to let you go because you know I know you got to do
some stuff so can canonical readings be rejected why did Tabari reject canonical readings? Yeah that's
a good one um so yes canonical readings can be rejected and at some point they can't be anymore
so a Tabari um that we're talking about is one of the great early exegesis he lives in the
end of the third islamic century and um he wrote a big exegesis and also a big history
and he wrote a lot of things and he was brilliant but he wrote an exegesis of the Quran and he talks
about the different variant readings and he'll evaluate them he says well some people read this
some people read that and I think this is better um or both of them are fine and sometimes he says
this is garbage you can't do this you can't recite it like this and some of those are canonical
readings today of course when he's writing they're not right there is no canon of the canonical
readers until well actually his lifetime um so he dies a bit before Ibn Majahid but they were both
about that and um and they knew each other uh probably but they're they're contemporaneous
and then Ibn Majahid canonizes it and after that becomes well at least even after that people
still reject readings every now and they're like no I think this is better and it becomes
more careful there unless this is wrong but they'll still say I think this is better um I think this
fits better this is more fitting etc and then around the 700s history something changes um and
I must say I mean this actually requires research figuring out where does that shift kind of take
place and technically Shadi Nasser has done some of this in his book but I it's a really interesting
thing where all of a sudden when you get to people like Abu Hayyan who wrote Bahra al-Muhayt um which
is enormous actually this is incredibly eloquent but to him the idea that you could suggest that
one of these readings which are of course Mu'tawatera he was very clear about this to him
there were there was Tawater how dare you even suggest that that it's incorrect I mean that
that's impossible because we have a good chain and he was a pure Arab and you know all these things
go up and it's like no you can't reject these readings anymore um there's a tension that comes
up in my mind but we might have to talk about that some other yeah yeah yeah but there's there's
interesting question I'll do it very quickly so there's an interesting question about what makes
a reading valid and there are always three things it has to agree with the Rasam which is interesting
because the Rasam didn't exist at the time that the Prophet existed right that was sometime after
so it has to agree with the Rasam it has to have a good chain of transmission and it has to have
good Arabic grammar but of course at some point this this this chain of transmission becomes so
important that like well the chain of transmission is good so it can't be bad Arabic um right because
the chain of transmission is perfect we know that it went back to a person who had impeccable
standards so if he considered it proper Arabic it's proper Arabic so that can't be wrong um
so the the the the requirement of proper Arabic starts dropping away while before like in the
time of authority it was perfectly reasonable to say some of these readings were wrong and wrong
for grammatical reasons but at some point that that kind of rationality about that gets relegated
to know chain of transmission is the only thing that matters even though informed people still
say the three things matter but that's not true the only thing that matters is the chain of transmission
these things um and so and what's even interesting so not only authority rejects readings even even
Mujahid himself so the guy who canonizes seven readings in his book that became the canon of
the seven readings there's a couple of times where he says no I think this is wrong um he's
he's wrong about this and even so he's he's um he's a the student of one of the transmitters
he said no I think my teacher's wrong here that this can't be right at the end right so that that
that's it um so that's really interesting and that that totally shifts uh at some point to the
point that right now it's these readings are totally unassailable they were they were perfectly
assayable they were even assayable to the person who canonized themselves um so that's a really
interesting kind of thing that is going on yeah wow all right all right can any canonical readings
be grammatically incorrect we did that we did that yeah basically basically the same thing so we
talked about some of it already and once again some of these get rejected for grammatical reasons
right okay what if two canonical readings contradict are there any examples yeah we we
we kind of stress upon some of those as well so so the giving of a pure boy by the angel or
Miller technically in contradiction I suppose are there any blatant ones that you can think of
even one example yeah yeah like like none are really coming to mind real quickly we have a
couple of those cases where um some person says something that either you or I did it
I think it was in most of us or would it know well either way it's not coming to mind right now
but right he really can't have said both and they're in contradicting with each other
and the event I mean like like the general event is still the same thing but they kind of contradict
and they do that they're irreconcilable um there's quite a few of those some of them are quite easy
reconcilable it's like okay one person just thought it was more you know it's the difference between
they killed the children or they massacred the children I mean is that really a difference in
meaning they just put the emphasis somewhere else so then those are easily reconcilable right
they're not in contradiction but some of them yes are are slightly more difficult to reconcile and
you just have to translate them differently and that's what people do so there's a translation
the bridges translation it's called and you can you can even see it on curand.com which actually
gives footnotes like okay you know some others read it in a different way and you have to translate
like this so you need different translations and that's the way it goes yeah so they can contradict
and usually quite easy easy to reconcile sometimes harder and it's like okay well
yeah it has to be one of the two but both of them have very good good authority
so which one of two is correct it's hard to say yeah wow final question this is my own personal
little uh I'm big into intertextuality give you an example as I lead up my question to kind of
paint it for you so that people who are watching can also see where I'm coming from. Apologists
that I deal with in Christianity and Judaism mainly in Christianity I don't really engage
Jews when it comes to the Hebrew Bible but like there's tons of scholars I talk to who see
intertextuality between like Noah let's say the flood narrative or creation myths of the Bible
and the Mesopotamian literature where we see the epic of Gogamesh and then of course older literature
where we just kind of see these gods Marduk's fighting against Tiamat etc etc and we do know
there's intertextuality we have some reference to know they're definitely borrowing from here
the question I have and it's probably a little different when it comes to the Qur'an and what
is being done here but for example with the Jesus tradition when I hear of infant narratives okay
infancy gospels I like when I'm reading them from the Christian perspective and I'm going
into the second third century looking at this I'm going this is almost actually a comedy like it's
actually being written a lot of the scholars I've talked to are like like when they wrote this this
was kind of like we love Jesus and we love the narratives of Jesus even if we know that this
isn't really what happened um it's a comedy in some sense they're writing narratives to be kind of
funny and whatnot we're finding these narratives in from what I understand in the Qur'an we see
infancy gospel borrowing or intertextuality so is there any clear evidence as a linguist and of
course you're not just a linguist I mean your textual language you you know the languages you're
looking at this stuff closely is there any clear borrowing if I can use the term what I mean is
intertextuality of this literature in its development it seems like a hodgepodge of ideas
because you have infancy gospels but we don't want him crucified right but we want him to be
a prophet and we want him born of a virgin but we don't want him this you know and then
they do this stuff like what's going on yeah so so I mean it's a bit outside of my will house but
I'm happy happy to to apply a little bit on it um so what we can clearly see in the Qur'an I think
and this this this should be very obvious is that the Qur'an absolutely assumes knowledge of the
Bible and assumes that the audience knows about this because it constantly gives versions of the
stories of stories where like if I had not known the story this would have made no sense whatsoever
really I mean there it can be extremely extremely short and not really explain anywhere else
you're like well that that's and it even often says you know remember when etc etc clearly the Qur'an
is assuming people to actually be able to remember these things and you know the seven sleepers is
a famous story of course where it's like okay there's clear details there and what's really
interesting is that the Qur'an is in some ways and I use this analogy every now and then is patching
the stories it's like it's like a it's like a video game patch or software patch it's like okay
well you know the story remember this story well actually what happened is a little different
and you know and starts so you know it really cares about that everybody understands there's no
trinity there's just one god jesus was a swell guy but you know you can't you can't say he was the
son of god and and that's quite important and a lot of other stuff is perfectly fine and then you
get the stuff with the cross and it gets weird so it completely jumps in with these kind of stories
and there's a very circumspect about what the story is actually about it just says remember this
important juncture when this happened okay well you know change it a bit like this and then we
have to real story um and that's that's that's a really interesting that makes the Qur'an a strange
text a very different kind of text and then kind of narrative flow that maybe the bible has um so
that that's kind of thing but yes there's this constant constantly this constant assumption
that that the text was known and of course that you know it's supposed to be part of the miracle
you talked about this with john anthony a little bit um where they don't want him to be a merchant
and right exactly right and then also you know they didn't didn't get inspired by someone else
exactly right yeah and i mean you're okay sure i mean so maybe it's divine revelation that's a
possibility too but um but it's clearly interacting something and it's clearly clearly doing something
with that with these other texts and uh and i think you get a different appreciation of the Qur'an
if you know these other texts and kind of see how they're interacting because that's clearly part
of the intention well if the audience knows then that it goes beyond for me as the scooby-doo guy
who wants to pull the hat off realizing what's going on here it wasn't in my opinion if we're
gonna assume and i'm gonna just assume that Muhammad is definitely in communication with
either rabbis or jew or christians some form manikin i don't know what what version um maybe he's
bumping into various types of christians i don't know point i'm i'm bringing up is it couldn't
have just been him it sounds like his audience his tribe has come across this stuff or at least
is familiar and i've heard people try to theorize and this is completely guessing game here that
they weren't they were originally some form of a christian sect or something that they came out of
and gave their own little spin i don't know because intertextuality is about what changes
it's not like people think oh you mean he borrows like it's exact xerox no it's the differences that
really make you go whoa yeah so anyway yeah no i mean so so all i want to say about about this
for now is this is i think one of one of one of the big challenges when we're looking at the
literary side of things and these intertextuality things like how exactly should we be modeling
the Quranic audience right and how do we rhyme this with um with what the tradition tells us
tradition you know tells a lot about paganism and kind of stuff very interested in pagans at all
it's interested in in in christianity is interested in judaism and it's interacting with that and
partially is because it's obviously in in that tradition so of course you know the Quran likes
to say more about that than anything else but who knows and and so figuring out it's like okay who
who was his audience and can that audience be the same people that the tradition presents to us
i think it can be a bit difficult to rhyme at times so i think we need to think about
what what the what the audience was like which is not to say that we should be thinking in a
completely different region petra is nonsense it's clearly and i think linguistically the the Quran
very clearly shows to come from hejaz and that is exactly where we were expected to come from
and that's really cool that you can get that from linguistic evidence but what was hejaz like
who were living there what were they doing what were the positions within say you know christianity
days and and and paganism and what what did paganism mean in that sense yeah clearly they still
have hoa and you know and christianity is all around of course that's who i mean it's in south
radia it's in north north radia and why wouldn't it be in between yeah i didn't even get into the
questions of i suspect you agree with sean anthony about a la where the name comes from i i asked
him about pantheon deities but some people try to say moon god or something like this and like
they tried to but uh yeah i he no i mean so so so so the interesting things here i just did a
thread on twitter about the the origin of allah um i think i have a slightly more subtle um
well that sounds unfair to sean um i don't mean it that way uh but i but i i saw him i saw him
talk about it i was like i know i i think i should be saying this in a slightly more subtle way i'll
do a thread about it which subsequently exploded um and um where it took a little bit about it but
the point is allah um is a pagan god um to some pagans at some point um because people call them
call themselves you know uh and they write implications to allah along with other gods
and muslims go well that's obviously i mean that's what the Quran says as well they're
associating other gods but he doesn't seem to be the main god at all he doesn't seem to be
the head of the pantheon uh but we're also talking about inscriptions that are in arabic from
jordan um which is very far away seven hundred years earlier so that might not be a reflection
of what allah was like in in say um the hejaz at this time this is like finding the word l in canaanite
uh tradition and then all of a sudden it's monotheistic and judaism good point good point
yeah interesting very similar to that and and so so there are interesting questions going on there
and um i had one one tiny thought to finish that up um well it's okay
so yeah so and the question of moon god i don't know where that comes from i i uh
as far as i know we have absolutely no indication what people thought allah was before this
so even even in a pagan context he does show up in a pagan context it's not obvious they're talking
about him as the moon god um it's not obvious what he does at all but not a moon god so we don't
know what his function was is it you said seven hundred years are you talking about first century
in jordan no no i'm talking so i'm talking about about the year zero in our calendar time uh so we
have inscriptions in ours like our our yes ours okay so so c e um or got it 80 um so that's a
first century the name allah is being used in arabic yeah and even before that so the nevitians
in in in in jordan um used the name all throughout so we have tons of people called obama um so you
know the the slave of god or the servant of god which was apparently also the name of Muhammad's
father um which he clearly didn't make up the name uh the name right has been around
but what's interesting is that the name is mostly being used in in pagan contexts and
whenever christians talk about god they call him el ilah which just means the god um so what's
going on there why when did they get conflated why did they get conflated because they do get
conflated and today christians in jew school call god allah as well um that's just the way you do it
if you speak arabic that that's his name and even you know yeah wow okay holy moly too much we have
so much of this i don't know if anyone can handle what just happened over the last two hours and
15 minutes this was amazing i seriously highly recommend everybody go and support him
i don't care if you don't like berber you need to go and buy the book because look i mean that's
actually quite an expensive book that's not your choice it used to be cheaper um i know i know that
when it went on sale it was it was 40 euros which i thought was a very decent price for an academic
book but um yeah i guess this is the second hand one maybe didn't like my book and not or they'd
liked it so much that they wanted to wait more money for it i don't know i don't know yeah interesting
well you've got the one coming out that will be free so so anyway if you're gonna be about the
quran and not about berber so uh for people who are interested in quranic stuff you will not get
much out of this grammar it's a wonderful grammar i think it's a great language uh from from a libyan
berber dialect but you know um that that's something i i did in the past awesome definitely if you
want to read about the quran check out my academia page yeah there's tons of tons of stuff on there
go right now check him out follow him i'm about to do that right now i hope i'm logged in am i
logged in no i need to log in when i get off here okay so i'm gonna make sure i follow you here
and um i hope that uh your hair comes back you're looking pretty swagged out right here man i don't
think it will be coming back hey but look he's he writes after a show like this you can see why
i'm saying go check him out for sure also it's in the vein of this it'll be brill the book that's
gonna come it'll be free where everybody can check it out you really want to have your mind
blown you know or put to sleep if you can't handle this kind of material this is something to read
it's worth checking out i really appreciate you coming on the show and i tell everybody
i always hey look check us out on the patreon all of the stuff finds this way early i want to make
academic research fun and try the best to filter it in a way for a general public for a bigger
audience that finds it relevant and you don't have to be a specialist to say hey where are the
origins of Allah like what are the origins of Islam like these are fun things people love watching
the history channel um and a lot of times it's not even factual they have these you know people on
there that aren't really painting the picture properly or there's a conspiracy theorist on
there like ancient aliens you know things like that and they're not getting actual academics
to go and look into this so i highly recommend everybody go join the patreon this is another
way to help support a channel that wants to bring it to you i want to bring you look speaking in
tongues you know all this fun stuff you know where does this come from what does it actually talk about
mostly the things i'm dealing with are biblical but we also are now exploring Islam and i want to
do more in this because it's also monotheistic it's not fair that i only focus on the two
but i want all three with the whole family come on let's sing kumbaya but uh i appreciate you so
much for coming on here is there any final words no well i was i was very happy to be here it was
great um follow me on twitter i'm very very active there that's at phd nix and um and if you think
that stuff i do it's great um you can also pick on a uh backer on my patreon or give me a coffee
because right now i am not employed so uh hopefully those things soon but you know i mean
academic it's hard to get a job and it's hard to find funding for things and hopefully it'll
work out and then i don't need to go for that kind of stuff but for now it's a lot of fun to
to do it and it's great a lot of people like it so that's all i say and look forward to my book
which will be free because apparently well i wouldn't have got any money anyway because it's
well it might if if you let someone like me actually get it and present it to an audience
that it can be understandable uh some people may not be able to read all that but uh yeah either
way the point is this is a good way i if i didn't know you had a patreon i'd already
mentioned this up front but all of this patreon the twitter the academia web page all of that
will be down in the description please if you find critical scholarship in this area
interesting and you're able to afford go down and join his patreon i would actually much
rather you do that to show the academics that i'm bringing on uh that i appreciate them
and i want them to come on to myth vision more so he's definitely in a more dire situation than
me so i please ask you to do that if you've made it this far it does obvious you appreciate this
stuff and um if you're able of course i i ask you to go and join his patreon so thank you i really
appreciate it i was so happy to be here it was a lot of fun absolutely don't leave anywhere real
quick and don't forget ladies and gentlemen we are myth vision ladies and gentlemen i hope you
enjoyed that show i have hundreds of other ones on the patreon letting you guys know you can help
us continue doing what we're doing at myth vision podcast also you can have questions asked the
academics that i research with and i interview your question can be asked in a 1080p high quality
video that might end up on youtube like i said ladies and gentlemen i want to expose the cults
show these superstitions for what they are and the errors within these texts and all of these
religions to help people realize they're all man made and that we have what it takes all we need
to do is pull together let me tell you something the religious world has the financial backing
that those skeptics such as myself don't have so if you want to help and be a participant you can
for a little a little bit a month it's not much if you want to go more you can but like i said this
is how i can keep the lights on for myth vision
