All right. We are live here at Mid-Fusion Podcast. Dr. John J. Collins is with us. How
are you, John?
I'm fine, Derek.
Oh, we're going to have a heck of a show. I can't wait for you to tell us what your
thoughts are on this. And ladies and gentlemen, please welcome to the stage the one and only
Dr. John J. Collins, a Bible scholar of unparalleled expertise and wit. He's got a PhD from Harvard,
is the Holmes Professor of Old Testament Criticism and Interpretation at Yale Divinity School.
And would you still say you still are that, even though you retired?
I would add emeritus.
That's right. Thank you for correcting me. And an impressive list of publications. I
mean, go on Amazon. We'll show that in just a minute. But don't let that fool you. He's
not one to shy away from a lively debate or a good pun. Dr. Collins is a master of ancient
languages and textual criticism, and he has spent decades delving into the complexities
of the Bible. He's here to share his insights and wisdom with us. So buckle up and get ready
for an intellectually stimulating and entertaining ride. That being said, here's our intro.
Dr. Collins, what do you think of that intro? It's a trip. Quick plug, and then we'll get
into questions because you're the kind of scholar that I can ask a question. And I could
walk away for 45 minutes and come back and be like, well, I'm about halfway through explaining
this particular thing because there's so much to learn about all this. He has the book,
the book particularly, that we're going to be kind of dealing with in this discussion
is the invention of Judaism, Torah and Jewish identity from Deuteronomy to Paul. And though
he's not a Pauline scholar, so to speak, you're in the category with me. And Dr. Collins, I'm
sure you kind of have a sixth sense after reading all the different scholars in this field on what
makes the most sense of you. And that's kind of what we're going to have you here today to do. I
hope people will also support us on the Patreon and consider checking out our courses, our lectures.
We now have online courses. A lot of the scholars that go to many of these colleges are now doing
recordings. It helps them. And it also helps get this out to a more general audience. So the
general public can learn some of the stuff that is inside of the ivory towers, as I call it, of
scholarship. So Dr. Collins, again, thank you for joining me. I recently interviewed Yonatan Adler
on his book. Yes, very good. Yes. So you thumbs up all the way on this work. Yeah. Yeah. Yes, I ran
into Yonatan Adler at a conference in Sweden in May of 2019, I believe. And then he happened to
be coming to Yale on a sabbatical. And so we spent a lot of time together. And he wanted to do this
book, and I was able to offer him a forum in the anchor reference library. And his book is in
a way complementary to mine. Exactly. We don't agree on everything. But we agree on the bulk of it.
And but the main difference between the two books is I am talking about texts. He's talking about
archaeology. It's amazing how they merged in his book. Yeah, he actually quotes you and he references
you often. And I was quite impressed with how he's not denying that there weren't some small
elite priest group or figures at some point in history. But there's like no evidence that the
common people ever practiced the things in here. And even further, that anyone practiced anything
in these laws that we're seeing. Because, you know, you talk about this before, and you mentioned,
I went recently to Palestine, and I checked out the Holy Land, and I went down there in Qumran,
I saw the pools and I saw, and I don't know why, but the one thing I kept walking away with while
I had tour guide, Dr. James D. Table, was actually showing us this area. And he said,
well, these Qumran sectarian sect, they all had tapeworms. And here they are doing these like
baths. I don't know why this is the only thing that really, really sunk into my head. And I kept
thinking about it weeks later. They all had tapeworms, and they're passing it around by dipping
into the same sanctifying water that is purifying them. They just didn't know about germs. They
didn't know that this would. No, it is possible, you know, that Dr. Table had a private revelation
about that. Oh, I heard that. Well, I don't know the science behind why that conclusion. But
the practicing of these baths all over the region, all of this emerges after the
Maccabees in revolt. That's definitely right. Yeah. And, and you know, this is a dramatic
change. And you see it in the literature too. I mean, that's really the thesis of my book
is that now I would say maybe more strongly than Jonathan Adler that the Jewish law
had been to a great degree formulated. I think, you know, at least the Pentateuch or the Torah
was. And that there were priests who said you should follow this. But as far as we can tell
even the priest didn't follow it. Very much. You know, what we know about the priest down to the
time of the Maccabee in revolt isn't very edifying, to say the least. And it does not give you the
impression that these were people who were worrying about the purity of liquid stream. So it's the
kind of thing that they worry about in the Dead Sea Scrolls. And then, then you get the attempt
of Antiochus Epiphanes to abolish the Jewish law. No, this is a complicated issue. We can talk
about it. We can have another session on it sometime if you like. But what happened there,
I think is that he thought Judea was in revolt. He wanted to make changes in Judea. Some people
resisted that. And then there was fighting between two parties in Jerusalem. So his way of putting
down the revolt is to deny them the right to live according to their ancestral laws.
Now, this was kind of standard practice in the ancient world, that if you conquer an area,
you graciously let people live according to their own laws. But every now and then,
a king might get mad at the people of a town or an area and withdraw that privilege. Now,
we don't have many examples of that, but we have one or two. So that attempt to suppress the law,
I think backfired massively. And so you suddenly got people who were tripping over each other to
show their zeal for the law and to show how they observed it in more detail than anybody else.
This is the birth, I think, through which we should see what eventually what we're going to
deal with is Paul. So I want to mention, I've got notes, and maybe they'll help guide us. Maybe
they'll derail us. I hope they don't. They're in the vein of this book, your chapter specifically
on Paul, on the invention of Judaism. Once again, get the book. If you haven't read it,
you write so well, it's so clear, and it's fun. You start in acts, and oh goodness, that really big
moment. So first of all, non-Mosaic literature in Judaism, it's very important to understand that
Judaism is not like one thing. And our problem often in the future where we're at, and I say
future from their standpoint, is we have this picture of rabbinic Judaism. And we're trying to
look back and imagine, oh, it's just this unified thing. But we have to stop, I think, and I'm
speaking for laypeople. Scholars have already recognized this, but we have to stop projecting
and think rabbinic Judaism, Orthodox Judaism, Hasidic Judaism, or something is our interpretive
model by which we should understand Judaism. And if we go back historically, there's non-Mosaic
literature within Jewish thought. Can you briefly tell us about that as we start to approach that
first century context? Well, you know, before the Babylonian exile, there wasn't what you
might call a fixation on Moses. No, this was a people that had various traditions,
and you had traditions about Abraham and the patriarchs, you know, and you had
yet some traditions about Moses, too, as part of the general mix. Now, around the time of the
Babylonian exile, and possibly in part a little bit before it, there was an attempt to draft a law.
Now, a law is maybe not quite the right word for it, but, you know, an official document,
like of what it meant to be a Judean. And that's the book of Deuteronomy in large part,
and it's Deuteronomy then that kind of grew into the whole Torah. Now, according to the book of Ezra,
which, you know, was supposedly written about the middle of the fifth century BC, Ezra comes
back from Babylon, and he has this book of the law. But it doesn't actually seem to be exactly
the same thing that we now have in the Pentateuch. And, you know, he may have gotten everybody excited
about it for a weekend, but then as we disappears, and you find that a couple of years later, people
are back to paying no attention to it at all. Now, when I say paying no attention to it, I'm
mainly concerned about the kind of laws that you would say are ethnic markers,
you know, the distinctive things. Now, religious festivals are a big thing.
Sabbath is a big thing. Circumcision is a big thing. And certain purity practices,
isn't much about those at all in the Persian period. So, it's really only after this encounter with
Antiochus Epiphanes in the time of the Maccabees that people get really serious about making this
our statement of identity. And that, I think, came through the Hasmonean kings, and Jonathan Adler
would agree with that. They weren't necessarily very pious themselves, but, you know, they upheld
the Jewish law as the standard for Judaism. You might make an analogy with the modern state of
Israel, where a lot of the modern Israelis aren't especially religious, but, you know,
they give special place and special honor to the conservative side, and to the traditional
Judaism, because they want to identify with it, even if they're not interested in practicing it.
Interesting. Oh, but now, you know, then I think after the Maccabeean revolt, suddenly you have
a Jewish party in power. And at least by about 100 BC, the Hasmoneans make themselves kings.
Now, so, and they say, in effect, and of course, you should observe the Torah. Now, you have some
parties then who take that very seriously. And that's when we get the rise of sectarianism.
And a lot of the sectarianism comes from people fighting over what's the correct interpretation
of the law. Now, the Dead Sea Scrolls are probably our best source on this, but I think this is also
what's going on with the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the kind of sectarian squabbles that you
read about in the New Testament. And some of the time, this was very minute stuff. There's a famous
document in the Dead Sea Scrolls for QMNT, some of the works of the law, which was apparently
sent to a high priest, making the case, look at this, and you'll see that we are right, and the
other guys are wrong. And many of us think, you know, this was written by Essenes, and the other
guys were the Pharisees. Now, the kinds of things that we're fighting over is if you pour warfare
from one class into another, and the second class is dirty, does the impurity travel upstream so that
the first class is now impure as well? Now, you know, maybe they were gone to something, but
that was something that would never have bothered me until I read it in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
But, you know, this is the kind of thing that led these people to say, we just cannot live
in contact with these other peoples. We've just got to set up our own way of life and keep away
from them. Now, so you see, the Essenes were at one extreme of that. The Pharisees, you know, were
relatively liberal. But then Jesus comes along and he's way out on the other wing.
So this is what it's like today. It's almost like a repeat of politics today. So it's just in
different format. So just to emphasize and make the point in the question was simply
non-Mosaic literature. So we have like Enoch come in and Enoch's like focused on this figure before
Moses. You could even argue Paul, as we're tiptoeing into this, while he references he's
highly Abraham. He loves Abraham and it fits within what he's trying to do. So we're going to get to
that. Just so our audience who may have never read, let's just say, E.P. Sanders or Paula
Fredrickson or Matthew Teeson or N.T. Wright or any of these people you've read, you've been
acquainted with different works. Can you lay out a brief description of the discussion of Paul
and the various groups? You know, briefly, what are the arguments about Paul within the scholarship
on Pauline literature? Okay, let me just back up a little bit because I got a little distracted
when I was answering your last question. Yes, sir. But as to there being non-Mosaic literature,
you know, if you pick up an Old Testament now and you read through the book of Proverbs,
you're not going to hear anything about Moses. You're not going to hear anything about Moses
in the book of Job, in at least the Astes. Now you may get a couple of things that remind you of
other parts of the Old Testament, but there is no appeal to the authority of Moses.
Now, this, I think, would have been typical of a lot of Judaism. You mentioned the Enoch literature.
Well, now we don't know exactly who these people were, but there were people who thought that Enoch
was your main mediator of revelation. And then after the Micah-Beard revolt, they say, no, it's
Moses. And you get this too in the Dead Sea Scrolls, you know, that it all comes back to
Mosaic, the Mosaic law. Now, then along comes Paul in the middle of the first century. And
some of what Paul has to say about the law does not seem so nice at all. In fact, he seems to
regard the law as possibly even an obstacle, or some people would read him that way.
So freedom from the law became kind of the catchword. Now, this was the way Augustine read Paul,
and most faithfully, it was the way Martin Luther read Paul. So that for Luther,
the whole point of Christianity was to be free from the Jewish law. And he hung that on Paul.
Now, I'd say this was probably the dominant interpretation of Paul even 50 years ago,
or a little more than 50 years ago, 60 years ago. And one of the reasons for that is that
there were a lot of New Testament scholars in Germany who were Lutheran and who tended to
gravitate to Paul. And this kind of thing happens, you know, that were attracted to Paul.
Now, I would say the first great protest against that was by Christus Tendall,
who was Swedish. He was, well, I could say one of my teachers at Harvard,
who was Dean of Harvard Divinity School when I was there, and I didn't work closely with him
in particular, but I knew him quite well. And Tendall said, you know, that your typical
Lutheran parody of Paul is that Paul says that the law is a burden, and nobody can keep it.
And so Christ liberated us from it. And Tendall says the law wasn't a burden.
The law, you know, gave people structure in life, people who observed the law were having a great
time. They loved it. And Paul himself wasn't struggling under the law and looking to be freed
from it. He had, as Tendall said, a robust conscience. And so he, you know, part of what he
was doing was saying, we have a caricature of Judaism here. And you've got to appreciate that
Judaism was not seen as a burdensome religion. Now, then in the 1970s, I guess, 1977, to be
exact, E.P. Sanders published his book on Paul and Palestinian Judaism. E.P. Sanders, by the way,
just died a few months ago, said to here, he was a man who had enormous influence
on New Testament scholarship. And he was a good scholar. Now, on this question,
Sanders said, you've got to think of Judaism not just as the law. And it's not the case that people
are earning salvation by keeping the law. Think of it as a covenant. The law functions within
a covenant. So you have to be already part of the covenant people to be concerned with the law at all.
So that then I'll write your observance of the law affects your, whether you remember in good
standing, so to speak, but it's more like a matter of maintenance. And there is also a kind of grace
in Judaism. God is merciful. If you sin, you can be forgiven. So it's not all you break the law and
you go to hell. Now, again, I think this had enormous influence. With all of this debate,
very much in the background, is the Christian realization that something went horribly wrong
in the Holocaust in World War II. And that Christians have a lot of their conscience with
regard to Jews. We have not treated Jews well historically. Think of the long view of history.
Christianity has been pretty awful to Jews. And so I think a lot of this new perspective on Paul,
is a desire to atone for that, get away from it and be appreciative of Judaism.
So I think, you know, Sanders was not himself a theologian, I would say. He was more a historian
of religion. And now his conclusion was that, you know, Paul didn't think there was something
fundamentally wrong with Judaism. The only thing wrong with Judaism was that it was not Christianity.
And some of his critics made fun of him for that and said that sounds like a trivial
reason. I'm not so sure whether it was a trivial reason, but it wasn't a terribly good explanation,
actually, of what was driving Paul. And because I think, you know, when you read through the
Pauline epistles, it becomes pretty clear that the law is not enough. You know, whatever,
whatever else you say about it. There's something not quite right there.
And the question that becomes, what is it? And that's where you mentioned Paul, you mentioned
new perspective. You mentioned the Lutheran position. And then there is also Paul within
Judaism, which goes so far to say, Paul was so about Judaism and so about the law that he didn't
want Gentiles. And I read this in Paul, The Pagan's Apostle by Paula Fredrickson. Love the book,
by the way. I love learning from all of these people. But it seemed to me a bit omniscient
on her part to assume she knew Paul's writing almost antagonistic toward the law, the works of
the law, to just kind of like dissuade his Gentiles from actually participating in it.
So he's like, really, you can imagine Paul going to the Jews and going, listen, I love this thing.
I love the works of the law. But all the dirty works of the law, they will not get you salv it to
the Gentiles to try and dissuade them. And to me, it wasn't convincing, if that makes sense.
I know. This is now, I would say, the extreme of the week. I wouldn't necessarily say that
Paula is the most extreme of the group. But this whole thing started with John Gager at Princeton
and Lloyd Gaston up in Canada. And they wanted to argue that Paul said there were two ways to
salvation. So, you know, Gentiles have Christ. Jews just can keep the law. Now, I mean, that,
I think, was well intentioned. But you can't defend that, I think, you know, when you look at some
of the things that Paul says. Yeah, we are Jews by birth, and not Gentiles sinners.
Yet we know that a person is justified not by the works of the law, but through faith in Jesus
Christ. Now, as one of the critics of this new trend said, he does not say, and we know that a
Gentile is justified not by works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. I think it's perfectly
clear that Paul thinks everybody ultimately depends on Christ. Is it fair just jabbing into your axe
example at the beginning of your chapter in the Pauline part of the invention of Judaism?
Is it fair to say that this is in that vein of Acts 21, where you're like, we hear rumors that
you're saying that, like, Jews, even Jews aren't supposed to keep the customs, supposed to keep the
law. And we know Paul, Paul never speaks, by the way, it's interesting. The author wants to, like,
but we know Paul that you would not do that. He takes this vow with four others. But do you think
that plays into this issue? Well, yeah, perhaps, I don't know, I hadn't really thought about it that
way. But now, you know, there are a couple of other people then who went farther than Gaydru and
Gaston. And Matthew Teeson, whom you mentioned, I think would be a prime example of this, and
supported enthusiastically by Christine Hayes, who's here at jail. And Teeson's argument was that
it was such a privilege to keep the law that Gentiles weren't worthy of that.
Now, you know, the Magnus Zetterholm, who is another member of that club, brings up a midrash
from a few hundred years later about Israel being married to the law, and you can't just
give the law to anybody else. It would be like prostituting your wife. Right. Now, I don't think
there is anything in the Paulan corpus that is even compatible with that. You see, all of that,
you have to assume that Paul isn't saying what he means. In fact, that he is deliberately not
saying what he means because he doesn't want the law to be attractive. Right. This is the same
argument as saying he only believes you can become a Jew unless you were circumcised on the eighth day.
Others in that you're screwed. You can't become one. Like you point out, like, can he not just
say that? Yeah, sure he could have said that. But you know, I don't know that this wasn't a big,
this was only a big issue for in a book like the Book of Jubilees. You know, after the
Maccabeean revolt, you have a couple of books like Jubilees and the Temple Scroll that show
this new obsession with the details of the law. Let's say. Now, that to my mind is just the other
end of the spectrum from Paul. And Paul isn't like them in any respect. Now, one of the things is
they are not interested in the salvation of Gentiles. You know, Jubilees, so Jubilees, the
only good Gentile is a dead Gentile. You know, they want to separate from the Gentiles completely.
So to say that Paul has that mentality is sheer nonsense.
Wow. So you say, okay, there is so much good stuff here. And by the way, you're literally
tacking off much of the notes that I had in terms of this. I'm like, okay, erase that so I don't
come across it because I was going to ask like, I had one, Matthew Teeson, Christine Hayes,
go too far on Paul. Yes, of course, let me erase that one. So that was a question I had on, you
know, as I dive into this. How this is a good one. I think this is a good one. You right there in
that previous thing also, you kind of said two way justification. No, that you're not like that
doesn't say Paul in your estimation. How does N.T. Wright get Paul wrong? How is N.T. Wright wrong
on Paul with his apocalypticism? Right, right. I know you remember the article you sent me on.
Have you ever published that article on Mark? Because I wanted to share that and everyone's
like, let me read it. It hasn't been published at the conference in Moscow in 2019. It may
yet be published. I don't know. It's out of my hands, so to speak. Right. But I think,
you know, I think, I mean, Tom Wright obviously has an exceptional talent for what we may call,
and that meaning anything derogatory by it, popularizing. But you know, he communicates,
he reaches a lot of people. And in order to do that, he oversimplifies. Now, that in itself
isn't necessarily a bad thing, but it can lead to distortion. And I think, you know,
this is what happens with the, like with the whole apocalyptic imagery of the end of the world,
Wright is inclined to say, oh, they didn't really mean that. That's just kind of like hyperbole.
Right. Yeah. And now on Paul, you see, again, I think it's partly that mentality.
Because, okay, there are two things you need to keep in mind about Paul.
First of all, he's a diaspora Jew. Now, we have a fair body of literature written in Greek
by Jews in this period. One of the trademarks of that period is that they typically,
they may talk about the law and they may attach great importance to the law, but they never
or seldom talk about things like circumcision and Sabbath and purity laws and cash routes.
And all of those things that are of central importance in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Even though, you know, the Greek literature will also cite Leviticus,
but typically what the Greek literature tries to do is find the deep moral principles.
Love of God and love of your neighbor, if you like. And so somebody like Philo. Now, Philo
also works through all the laws in great detail, but he does so to show that they all have a
spiritual significance. So if we don't eat a certain kind of bird, it isn't because we have
anything against those, this particular kind of bird, it's because we look at them as symbols of
greed or hostility or something. So that's like the vein in which most of this Greek literature
is written. If I may just poke into this point, I thought it was Enoch, somewhere in Enochian
literature that I was reading, but you would know right off the bat where they interpret things like
it is said, don't eat pig. But really, the reason you don't eat pig is that pigs eat anything and
they have no filter about what they eat or don't eat this bird, like you said, because birds are
thieves. You don't want to be like a bird. You don't want to be like what you eat, because the bird
swoops down and steals the food of the hard earned work of some other animal. And so don't be this
thief or, you know, they analogize it. I don't recall anything like that in the Enoch literature.
You get things like that in the letter of Aristias, which is a letter supposedly written by one Greek
to another about the Jewish law and what a wonderful thing it is. And somebody explains to him,
you know, that it's not, we're not superstitious, you know, we're not concerned about pigs as such.
It's that, you know, it's what they symbolize. So that's the world that Paul is coming from.
And I think that has a bearing on why he is not especially interested in the great minutiae of
the law. You know, it shapes his mentality. At the same time, he is not only a diaspora Jew,
you know, the great turning point for Paul is when he comes to believe that Jesus of Nazareth
is risen from the dead and is exalted to heaven. And now this I would call an apocalyptic idea,
because the resurrection of the dead was very much an apocalyptic idea. He was not saying that
Jesus' soul is immortal and he's still, it's up in heaven somewhere. He was saying that Jesus died
and rose so that that which died came back. Now this is an apocalyptic idea. It was, you know,
it was, you know, a novelty in Judaism in the time of the Maccabees. Not everybody subscribed
to it. Some people did. Now believing that gives him a whole new perspective, because where somebody
like Philo would say, you know, that the way to salvation, if we may use that term, is to keep the
law, but keep it with the proper understanding. Now Paul would say, no, it isn't at keeping the law,
even no matter how well you understand this, we is not enough. You need something more.
There is a new revelation and this new revelation comes with the resurrection and the exaltation
of Jesus. Okay, this, I'm sorry, I have a poke in when you get me excited here.
This, this is an interesting thing, so we can't prove, right? There's a lot here that's up in
the air to understand, to try and grasp, because we're trying to put our finger on Paul. I titled
this, Understanding the Apostle Paul. That's what I titled this video. And we're trying to get to
what was meant, what was going on, why would he say this, why is this? And one of the things Paul
claims in his own letters, or it seems he claims, is that he was a Pharisee. Now I've heard some people
actually try to say he wasn't a Pharisee, but that he, you know, kept the law like a Pharisee,
that he was a strict Jew in some way, he equates himself to Pharisee, whether he was one or wasn't,
it doesn't matter. The point is they're very strict compared to, here we are with that spectrum again,
right? You've got the kumran that seemed to be like the germ or the defilement will
crawl upstream through the water if you pour it out to the other side that's like,
get your donkey on the Sabbath and get it out of the, out of the trench. What are you talking about?
So various spectrum here, and if he was more on a strict side, and then he's coming over to this
Jesus side, that's more of the Christ movement, that's more liberal, let's use the term liberal to
mean more relaxed on the law. Wouldn't this make sense? If we were interpreting Paul through what
you're describing here, he was strict, now he's more relaxed, but he has some new thing too,
a new revelation. Is that common or is that known in Jewish thought that there's a super
seeding of revelation that can kind of usurp or I don't know if that's a proper term, but
it has more power over the previous thing? Yeah. Now, it is certainly known. And I would say you
have two major examples of it before the time of Paul. One of them was Enoch. Now there's been a
big debate about this, you know, was Enoch a Judaism opposed to Mosaic Judaism? And I think
probably not, but I think the people who liked Enoch said, oh yeah, Moses is fine. Moses, as
Paul would say, is holy and just and good. But you need more than that. You need revelations about
the heavens. You need visions about the Son of Man sitting on his throne of glory. And it's that
those additional revelations, you know, that make the difference. Also the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Now Dead Sea Scrolls without any doubt venerated Moses and thought that the Mosaic law was of
central importance. But they also thought that they had a special revelation of how the Mosaic law
should be interpreted. And they say this quite explicitly in the Damascus document. And that,
you know, God paid attention to this segment of penitence and revealed to them the things in
which all Israel had heard. So in the Dead Sea Scrolls, they talk about two kinds of laws.
Those that are revealed to everybody. And then those that are hidden to most people.
And the people in the Dead Sea Scrolls figured they had that which was hidden. Now in the case of
the Dead Sea Scrolls, what's hidden, the extra revelation is the proper interpretation of the
law. But it's still very much about the law. Whereas in the Enoch literature and in Paul,
it isn't really so much about the law. It's something else. And it isn't necessarily really
opposed to the law. But it's independent of the law and more important. There's another example,
actually, there's a book called Forth Ezra. Have you ever read Forth Ezra?
Oh, yeah, yeah. It's really quite a plea for help and a cry.
It's a great book. Yeah, it's a great book. You know, if the canon were really inspired,
Forth Ezra would be in it. And I could tell you a few books that shouldn't be. But we leave that.
But in Forth Ezra, at the end of the book, Ezra is inspired to restore the law because it has been
burned. But actually, the angel dictates to him a total of what, 70 books? So, yeah. So, you know,
there are those that are to be made, sorry, of 94 books altogether, because there are those that
are to be made known to everybody, so that the pure and the impure can all read them.
And then there are the other 70 that are to be kept secret. And those presumably are books like
Forth Ezra itself, or maybe the Enoch books. But it says, for it is in those that you have the
secret of wisdom and the fount of understanding. That's the good stuff.
So, you know, in that regard, again, Paul fits a pattern. Now, you can have two people who each
think you need a higher revelation, but can disagree vehemently as to what that higher
revelation is. So, it doesn't resolve the oppositions that way. But the pattern is there.
Would the Melchizedek scroll, which by the way, I was in the cave, they found that in when I was
down there, would that Melchizedek scroll kind of fit that kind of mysterious secret information
in a way? Yeah, I think it would. I think there's a lot of stuff in the Dead Sea Scrolls,
actually, that would fit that. Okay, so two things real quick. I do want to share.
Let me stop screen here real quick. Just for earlier, I didn't get a chance to actually
share this with you. Pertaining to the kumron, what I was talking about with them having worms,
there's a few archaeologists that told us that kumron, the Essenes and the scrolls.
So, if anybody's, I could try to send this to them. So, this is work that was based when I
mentioned I went on a tour, actually, with Dr. James Tabor. It was wonderful. We learned a lot
of great things. It was good to see some of the caves. But just to kind of vindicate what was
being said there, I have an article. I could try to find a way to send it to people via email if
you really want to know more on why they're saying when they found the latrines and the camp was like
Northwest or something like that. Anyway, I'm ignorant. Don't take my word on it, but there is
information on this if you're interested and I couldn't get it out of my head. Anyway,
back to Paul and this is an important thing. Paul says the law of Christ.
He does. What is the law? Yeah, what is that?
Well, you know, it's related to the question of what does he mean by faith in Jesus Christ?
Now, you know, when you read through, say, his correspondence with the Corinthians,
it's quite clear that Paul was not an antinomian. Right. Paul wasn't saying you shouldn't have any
law at all. Paul, in fact, has very strict ideas of what they should be doing and is outraged at
some of the things that they are actually doing. Right. And then, you know, what he expects them
to do by and large conforms pretty well to the Mosaic law, except that he doesn't pay so much
attention to the ritual aspects. He doesn't think that those are important for the Gentiles.
Now, so then what the part of the law that is still valid, I would think that probably
counts as the law of Christ, but I think there's probably something that gives it its cohesion.
Now, you see, one of the oddities of Paul is he does not quote the Gospels. He doesn't quote the
sayings of Jesus very much. Every now and then he'll have a word of the Lord, but not very much.
But he does, I think, have some idea of, you know, what Christ was about. And a nice example
of it is in chapter two of Philippians, where he says that this mind be in you that was also in
Christ Jesus. How even though he was Son of God, he emptied himself and took the form of a slave,
and therefore God exalted him. Now, I think that's what he means by the law of Christ,
you know, that that's what he means by the way you should live.
Right. And he doesn't base his view of the way you should live on inherited sayings of Jesus
or parables or anything like that, although they may all be compatible with it.
He really extrapolates it from the fact that Jesus was crucified. It's somebody, you know,
who didn't look out for himself, who gave himself up. And no, I mean, you could make a case that
that's not a bad interpretation of what Jesus of Nazareth was about. But I think that's more or
less the idea of what he means. And then I think when he talks about faith in Jesus Christ,
and some people now would argue that should really be trust in Jesus Christ, you know,
it's it presupposes, I think that you believe that he was raised from the dead. But the important
thing is that, you know, you trust in that. You commit yourself to it. Or as he puts it in
Philippians, let this mind be in you that he had. It's really imitation of Christ.
Right. It's live like Christ. That's what he's saying. Now, again, at the risk of oversimplification
here, it seems to me that Paul's essential revelation is that Jesus was raised and taken up to heaven.
In other words, he got there. Right. Now, you know, you have no record. I mean,
you could make a case for Moses, maybe, but you did not have at least a recent record
of somebody who was raised from the dead and taken up to heaven because he was keeping the law.
Therefore, I think Paul thought, you know, the law isn't getting it done.
And it's not that there's something bad about it. It just, it doesn't get you where you need to go.
And the fact that Jesus was raised, and you know, I assume that Paul did have a vision.
Maybe he said when he fell off his horse, who knows, but I think he did have this vision
and he did believe that Jesus was now alive and up in heaven. And therefore,
if that's what you want, if that's what you want to get there, your best advice is try to be like
Jesus. This, okay, this is a wonderful, I've got a few more questions from me. And then,
if you don't mind, we've got some questions from our audience that are wonderful. And one of those
is I recently had Dennis R. McDonald over. He has quite interesting thoughts. He talked about Q.
And he told a story, we recorded his story, some given snippets away, but he pretty much says
he came to find when he goes back to Q in his research that Jesus was killed in the Q document
because of his view on law. And I thought, and I asked him, like, is that something that happens?
And he says, well, if you take Josephus, what happens to James, and you see how these very strict
particular parties were versus those who weren't, you do find accounts that seem to suggest that
it was other Jews conspiring against other Jews because they didn't like them because of their
views on the law. Do you think it's speculation? I get it, but you talk about have this mind,
which was also in Christ, Jesus, right? Paul says these things. And is it possible that you,
where do you fall on this, connecting dots back to this behind the curtain we call Jesus,
because it's hard to get there, that he himself was in that vein and was actually, I know,
post-holocaust. We don't like to get this way and point out, but it's not like there's an
anti-Semitic slant. This is in-group fighting going on. So we have to understand these are Jews
against Jews in debate. Do you think this goes back to Jesus? I'm not quite prepared to pronounce
some Q. I haven't thought very much about it, really. And leave that one open as to what
explanation you might have in Q. But in all the Gospels, as we have them, Jesus is executed by
the Romans. This makes perfectly good sense. You have somebody who comes along with an excited
crowd of followers who start shouting, Hosanna to the son of David and other inflammatory things,
as he's coming into Jerusalem. And the Romans say, we've got to tamp this down. Cut this off.
But we have several parallels for that in Josephus, you know, of more or less prophetic figures
who gathered a crowd of followers. One of them went up on the Mount of Olives and promised
that the walls would fall down. And this kind of thing, another one went to the Jordan and
promised that the waters would part before him. And of course, those things didn't happen. But
the Romans, you know, didn't laugh those people off as crazy. You know, they killed first and
laughed afterwards. So, you know, they were taking no chances on any of that. So I would think it's
overwhelmingly probable that that's why Jesus was killed. Then last question. The big question, though,
behind that is, were the Jewish leaders complicit in handing him over?
There is a very interesting passage in the Gospel of John, where the High Priest says,
it is expedient that one man should die for the people. And what he means is, you know,
if we let him go on, the Romans will come and destroy the whole city, which of course, they
eventually did. And so I think that this also happened later on at the time of the war against
Rome, that people, you know, were some of the people in authority were more inclined to hand over
the rebels than to support them. And that's because they made a perfectly good judgment,
I think, that this thing was going to end in disaster. So I think that's what I would say
was going on. Now, could the High Priest also have been annoyed at what Jesus not having proper
respect for the law? Quite possibly. And so it could play into it that way. But I don't think
it's the primary reason. But no, I don't know actually what Dennis's argument is with regard
to Q. So right, right, right. Sorry. And that and that was probably unnecessary to even mention,
I was just leading up to it. Two things, Jason Staples work on Israel. Do you have a few sentences
you could tell us that maybe you agree or critically? Because I know he takes some jabs
at your work in his idea of Israel in his Old Testament eschatological view. He thinks they're
still holding on to this idea like unanimously across the board that Israel, the Northern Kingdom
in some way. There's like an eschatological fulfillment of all Israel. Anyway, what are
your thoughts of his work? And then Paul, I've been in a Zoom meeting with Jason. He's
quite impressive. After that, I went and got a PDF of his book. And it's sitting on my desktop,
but I still haven't read it. Maybe we'll do a follow up and talk about that. And then
I need to read it first. Right. That's what I'm hoping to hear your thoughts on that. I'm curious.
Last one is we talk about you're the man on apocalypticism. I mean, I always refer people
to your works. If they want to know what apocalypticism eschatology, they really Jewish style on this.
They need to check you out. So you don't have to break down the argument because I know it would
take a while. Do you think Jesus was an apocalyptic prophet? And that meaning he predicted things and
they fell. And obvious Paul, I know you think that Paul definitely expected history to meet its end
soon. And that didn't happen. So do you think Jesus was? You know, that is that's the
64 million dollar question in the New Testament. And the problem is Jesus didn't write anything.
Right. This was his big mistake. Either that or it's a stroke of genius.
And it's what made him really fascinating to everybody ever since. Because you're never sure
whether what you're reading is what Jesus thought or something that we're saying about him after he
died. Right. So, you know, that's a difficult question. So for example, I would say that when
you read in the Gospels about the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven, if you're assuming that
the Son of Man is Jesus, that's got to be after his death. Otherwise, why would he be up in the
clouds of heaven? He was there on earth. Did Jesus himself talk about Son of Man coming
in the clouds of heaven? And do so without making clear who this was? It's entirely possible.
But I think, you know, the fact that the early Christian tradition is so heavily apocalyptic
makes it, it's hard to believe that they got him completely wrong. That there wasn't some basis for
that in his dream. I liked the way you said that. Yeah. And the final one I had was sibling
oracles pertaining to the book of Revelation. There seems, Revelation seems, and I mean the book
Revelation, Island of Patmos, John, seems to be engaging, is aware of the sibling oracles work,
at least in some respects with it may be a common source of Nero Redivivus and things like that.
But it also seems to be anti-Pauline in some ways. It seems to take
jabs at Paul in some ways. What are your thoughts about this book as it relates to Paul and the
sibling oracles? Well, you mean that Revelation, you think, takes jabs at Paul. Right. I think
Revelation 2 or 3, I think it is when they're talking. Yeah, I would think there just doesn't
pay that much attention to Paul one way or the other. Maybe it's not. Revelation, if you like,
is much more apocalyptic than Paul was because they think they're living at a point further along
in the timeline. And so now everything is urgent into a greater degree than it was in Paul.
That's maybe for another day. Yeah. Maybe for somebody who is more immersed in the book of
Revelation. Yeah, I was going to mention the sibling, but your wonderful wife wrote a good
book too on the myth of the combat myth. So I hope people will read that. Okay, question and answer.
Constellation Pegasus says, how much science was Paul taught? Did Paul have knowledge of the Zodiac?
These later Greek authors seem to have put some Zodiac knowledge in their writings.
Was a Zodiac considered established science then or pseudoscience?
I have, you know, I don't know of any evidence pertinent to that.
Now, so, you know, I'm not saying that it wasn't that he didn't have knowledge of the Zodiac.
I don't know of anything in the Pauline writings that shows that he did.
And I have not, I don't know of anything that would make me think that he thought it was important.
Thank you so much. You find some Greek writers who did.
Right, right. Mark de Veldens, thank you for the super chat, Mark. Paul's sincerity to mission,
is there evidence that Paul accumulate personal wealth or just expenses?
Oh, I'm pretty sure he didn't accumulate personal wealth. I think he probably just about made it
living off the support of his communities wherever he went. But, you know, he wasn't
about to buy himself a villa in the Mediterranean and retire.
Yeah, I've heard some people say his pretty confident of that, but she didn't make money out of it.
Aaron's interest. Yeah.
Thank you. Aaron says, just tuning in, do you think that Paul was inspired by Isaiah 53,
for example, during his trip to Arabia, Galatians?
Again, I don't see the evidence. I mean, why would you think he was?
Now, I mean, he may have been inspired to some degree by Isaiah 53. If you take that
passage in Philippians that I talked about, you know, that it's a common pattern which you also
get in Isaiah 53 of that the one who humbles himself will be exalted. Now, you can have that
without getting it from Isaiah 53. I think many people would have read Isaiah 53 that way, not
necessarily as a prophecy, but just for the pattern of it.
Thank you. Constellation of Pegasus, secret knowledge, the Dead Sea Scrolls say, that's bizarre.
Oh, no. No, no, I mean, it's all the word Raz.
Raz Mataz, I feel like, but Raz, which is a Persian loan word for mystery.
And so, yeah, that they absolutely believe they have secret knowledge. And they also,
in fact, sometimes say, you shouldn't tell this to outsiders. You guard your secret knowledge.
But that's all fairly explicit. In fact, you can look up, there's a good book on mystery in the
Dead Sea Scrolls. It makes me want to ask, did Paul, do you think, because he talks about
mysteries that were unknown in ages past, but I think, again, this would have been common enough
in the culture. You don't have to get it from the Dead Sea Scrolls. Is it possible, just on an
author to you to get your thoughts that he got this from the pagan mystery religions that were
around as well, because he's engaging Gentiles. And of course, people have often thought that he did.
But I think, you know, the word, the whole idea of mystery, this would have been,
if we talk about a zeitgeist, you know, something that's kind of in the culture,
in the id, you know, say, you know, people use a lot of Freudian terminology without actually
doing anything about Freud. You know, but some things kind of get in the air and
mystery on would have been one of them. Thank you so much for that. Melody Joy. Revelation sounds
anti-Paul. Would you consider the Gospels to be anti-Paul too? Mark 13, 21 through 22. Thank you,
gentlemen. I could pull up Mark 13 if you want. I wouldn't necessarily think they're anti-Paul.
You know, I think that by and large, they go at things a little differently.
You know, for one thing, all the Gospels are much more focused on the life and teaching of Jesus.
And, you know, the only thing that interested Paul about Jesus was that he died and was raised again.
That actually is a little bit like Revelation.
So, I wouldn't see either Revelation or the Gospels as anti-Paul.
I'm curious to know if you think Mark is, is, Paula Fredrickson tried to argue that she didn't
think that Mark and Paul, like, he knows Mark, or sorry, he knows Paul. But do you think that
Mark knows Paul? I mean, your wife wrote the wonderful commentary, of course.
Yeah, you have to ask her in the face. I could tell that Mark here.
Right? Vesper says, Mr. Collins, I need you to ask Paul, please. I've been Vegas,
definitely not. Yeah, I've heard a scholar actually say that.
You know, whenever anybody comes up with a highly specific identification like that,
you can safely discount it.
Hmm. Thank you so much, Vesper.
Minderbender, what do you think about the historical criteria many historians use to
determine if a saying or teaching goes back to Jesus, multiple attestation, dissimilarity,
does it work? Thanks.
You know, they work to a certain degree. And the problem is that they don't work the same way for
everybody. Now, you know, there was a movement maybe 20, 30 years ago now,
if the historical Jesus, the Jesus Seminar, you know, which actually had people vote
plausibility of sayings and that came in for a lot of ridicule. But I think, you know, they,
in principle, in principle, I think they make sense. The dissimilarity is the most controversial of
them. And I think, you know, it works to a limited degree. I'm just working actually today, I'm
writing an article for a feshrift, and it's on Jesus and divorce. Now, you know, you have the
Gospel of Mark says, you know, anyone who divorces his wife and marries another is
anathema in effect. And then Matthew says, except in the case of Unchastity.
So which of them was right? Well, I think, I think in that case, you can be very confident that Mark
was right. Because, you know, everybody in ancient Judaism thought it was okay to divorce your wife
if she was unfaithful. So when somebody comes along and says, no, it's not okay at all.
I think that's a strong personality. That may not quite be proof that it was Jesus,
but I think it makes it more likely if you assume that, you know, the reason we have so much interest
in Jesus is he was a strong personality. He was an original personality. And so that which comes
across as boldly original is indeed more likely, I think, to go back to him. But that doesn't mean,
you know, you couldn't also have said things that agreed with what everybody else said. So
in the end of the day, you're never quite sure. I actually had John Kloppenborg respond. I asked him
this question, give me three dissimilarity arguments of embarrassment or almost things
that you could tell the later Gospels are like, oh, snap Jesus. So they had to fix it. And it's
what you're saying. There's certain things he said that it's like, let the dead bury the dead.
What? It is a Jewish ritual to bury the dead. What do you mean? If you say something like that,
yeah, you're hardcore to use my modern term. Wow. Okay, I think we caught up. We caught up on
everything. I just want to simply round off this discussion on Paul. Give us a kind of a synopsis
overview of what you think's going on with Paul in our episode today, if you don't mind.
Well, you know, I suppose a lot of the current debate is about the Paul within Judaism.
And I think all of that discussion is right in so far as you know, Paul was a Jew. His whole
understanding of the world was within Judaism. An interesting book by Joshua Garroway,
in which he claims, he talks about Paul's Jewish Gentiles. Now, of course, Paul never
actually says that Gentiles should become Jews. But what he does say is that they get
grafted into Israel. And this is why Jason Staples may be of interest here. Because, you know,
in a way, Paul takes Israel rather than Judaism. And it seems even that, you know,
he associates Judaism with the dependence on the mosaic law and on a certain style of interpreting
it. And he wants to go beyond that. But he doesn't just say good human beings. You know,
there's still going to be children of Abraham. So it's still within a biblical framework,
you know, within the framework of a chosen people, so to speak, greater Israel, if you like.
That's what's going on. You remind me of Catelle Berthelot's work, Jews and the Roman rivals.
And that's a great work where she shows how even the Jews didn't agree on this. And one rabbi
would make a saying and say, nope, you cannot say Deuteronomy 30. I can't remember the specific
where it's like, 26, I think it is, where he's like, Abraham is our father. And he says, no,
no, no, you can say Abraham is your father. But then another rabbi comes on and goes,
you, what are you talking about? Have you not read the scriptures? It says that he will be
the father of many Goyim and like the way they interpreted Goyim, rather than, you know, just
nations. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. So there's a lot to study on Paul. Any recommended books? You mentioned
one there that we should probably dive into about Pauline studies. Yes, that one by Joshua Garroway
is one. Now I refer to a couple of other things. I probably have to go back now. There's a good one
by a man named Frank Teemann, whom I don't know at all. And it's not a new book. It's been out
for a while. You know, Paula Fedrickson, of course, is always tremendously engaging.
Whether you end up agreeing with her or not, she's a good read and very much worthwhile.
And, you know, I think the attempt to make Paul into a really orthodox Jew goes way over the top.
You know, Paul was not a zealot for the law, but at least you can be sure of.
But on the other hand, I think, you know, people are quite right to say that you have to understand
him as a Jew. You're Daniel Boyarn, a radical Jew, true of Daniel as well as of Paul.
Wow. Thank you so much for your time. I do want people to go get your book. It's always an
interesting talk with you. I learned so much and I always consider ideas that I haven't heard. And
you know what I find fascinating about you, Dr. Collins, that I, I guess I said this to Paula
Fredrickson once that a lot of times people are like, I can't wait for this guild of scholarship
to pass away and move on because where there's death, there's hope, she said. And meaning,
we can't get into a new paradigm or really get into new stuff because so many people of the
older paradigm aren't willing to shift or even continue their growth of learning. You, on the
other hand, have been one of these people that I've noticed is still like, I almost imagine,
till you're in the grave, you're going to be constantly shifting and like growing in your
thinking on these things. And whether you're right or wrong on all of this stuff or some of this
stuff, you're still trying to get there. And I think that's the takeaway. Yeah. Thank you so much.
Thank you. Yes, sir. Thank you. Let's do this again soon. All right. Bye.
All right. Ladies and gentlemen, what did you think of that show? I am always impressed listening
and learning from Dr. John J. Collins. He has so many works that I've been studying. And you know,
if you, on the internet side of things, many of you are engaging Christian apologists. And
you know, if you take the scholarship, which hopefully you do it for more than just one reason
as an anti-polymical work, but you know, Paul was wrong. So for your fundamentalist that want to
come and jab at you, Dr. Collins work so eloquently just, yep, he was wrong. And you're like, okay,
don't you see the implications? And to him and the scholars are in the ivory towers. I call them
ivory towers because it's really very, very high concentrated information. You know, they,
this is a given. They know this. I mean, very few people like NT Wright want to come on and try to
pretend, well, it happened, but it didn't happen the way that you think it happened. And it's like,
it's so impressive to see the scholars in the field just recognize things that when we're out here
engaging Christian apologists and fundamentalists, these people don't. These people are pushing that
it's still in our future. It's still about to happen. And you're going, and these are people,
obviously that vote, that have a say in society and are living in a world in their head. I know
because I was one that it's kind of scary if you were there. So I hope that the works that you see
from the scholars that I bring on myth vision will help change the general populace. In fact,
that's why we have courses now making it affordable for general public to be able to take a course with
really good scholarship and yet get this out to a general public. And it helps the scholar too.
So they make money from this as well. I just, I hope people get excited and enthusiastic about
this work. And I hope you walked away from what you heard today from Dr. Dr. John Dave Collins,
wanting to know more, wanting to learn this stuff more because I've told people I'm a skeptic.
I'm no longer a Christian, but I do try to keep the conversation going across the aisle.
And I hope that you will too, because there's nothing to be afraid of.
Like nobody owns a monopoly on reading, researching and interpretation pertaining to
these ancient texts. They're just as much yours as mine or anyone else. So I hope that you will
journey with me diving deeper into this, get Dr. Collins books. Again, I can't tell you how
fascinating his work is if you haven't read it. Please join us, go in the description,
get some of his works, join our Patreon, help support us in any way you can. And even if
that's a like, you can't afford a book, hit the like button. There's public articles he's written
that are free. I don't know what to say. I'm excited and I hope you are too. Thank you everybody
and have a wonderful day. And never forget, we are MythVision.
