I want to give a first shout out to Taryn Poole for motivating me to make this show today.
Number one, this is going to come from my heart. Taryn Poole has a YouTube channel. Make sure you
check it out. He is interviewing academic after academic in Islamic studies. He is a Muslim.
I consider him a friend and I hope that you will as well go subscribe to his YouTube channel
and let's do this together. Let's do this together. I want to tell you a story that I think is
very important and it's dear to my heart and who I am, what I am, and my whole purpose with what
I do at MythVision. Sometimes I get polemical, sometimes I get jabby, but this is really my heart.
With what just had to Salman Rushdie, we saw what happened and I felt my Patriot side come out,
freedom of speech, freedom of religion, and that's justified. However, we have such a stereotypical
view of our Muslim brothers and sisters in the West, and yes, brothers and sisters,
that we paint them in a certain light or view them in such a negative light,
that I think we need to start compartmentalizing when people are mean or bad in the way that they
present themselves, that not everybody thinks the same way. Even if there is a large amount of
people who think like that, not all of them do. We need to create connections and allies with those
who share a common ethic, who share a common goal, and that's my whole goal. So here's the story.
Seven years ago, I was getting off a heroin and I was addicted to drugs and also alcohol
for a long time in my life as an adult, and I put my telephone number out there in the Internet
world on my recovery channel for a long time. I had to change the number since then, but I was
taking phone calls from average, just people who are struggling and suffering with drug addiction,
and this epidemic is serious. And people who would call are people from every stripe of life,
every color, every creed, everything you can imagine, calling to tell me their story and how
I've encouraged them or the kind of things that they were going through. But I got a call one day
from a mother and she called and she begged, what can I do? Like, how can I save my son?
I need help. Please help me, Derek. Please help me. And I don't know why, but it started feeling
like she was my mother. She really made me feel like she was my mom after many calls.
I finally did something I never would have done in a million years. I literally would have never
done this, but she called me and called me and called me. And I said, you know what?
Let's help him because they didn't have money to get into a rehab program and then him walk out
and he had been watching my YouTube channel, Derek Lambert on Addiction, and was inspired by me,
but he was stuck. So I took a trip up to New York City, picked him up, and brought him into my home.
And I had him at my house for pretty much a month, almost a month. And the household that he
is raised in are Muslims. And the mother and father are some of the nicest people I have ever met.
I'm not, listen, I'm not busting you. Like, they were the most down to earth loving. His mom was
such a tender hearted person. And the dad was just, Derek, help me keep, keep my son alive,
you know? And I was like, I'll do my best. I'll do my best. He almost stayed the whole month.
We had some complications at the end, but we had conversations in the meantime while he was at my
house. And we talked about our disagreements, but we were cool. We got along. And I say that to say,
like, I had him in my house, helping him with drug addiction, and his family saw me as their own
son. These are Muslims. Oh, you know, the West has a stereotype. And we need to get rid of that
stereotype and just base it off people, individual people, and their actions. And my last YouTube
post, Taryn responded, the gentleman that I showed you whose YouTube channel at the beginning,
I hope you go subscribe. He responded and said, Derek, this right here looks a bit bad.
And yes, I did come with a lot of patriot tendencies in that. And I'm justified in being that way.
But at the same time, I realized most people can't compartmentalize. And my heart is to try and do
harm reduction. Being a struggling drug addict most of my life. I understand that I'd rather people
go and be prescribed medications that may have side effects, but that they're not being buried in
the ground by their loved ones. I would much rather harm reduction be the case. And I thought to myself,
is this post productive in creating unity between Muslims and non Muslims?
What am I saying this for? Why are my venting this? Why am I saying these things? And do I expect
Muslims to change other Muslims? Like that's just going to happen? I feel like we need to create a
relationship with people who come from different backgrounds and create those friendships, whatever
the religion back religious background is, so that we can help educate people, they can understand us,
we can understand them, and we can find common ground. I really believe this is where the change
can start to happen. You may want them to change and be more morally focused on this or that,
if they're somebody of a different faith, they may want you to understand them better so that
you're not out here polemically only jabbing those who believe in a certain faith or tradition.
And so that's my heart. That's who I am. That's honestly who I am. So I deleted the post. I deleted
the post because I was wrong, even if I was justified in some sense, I was wrong on what I knew
this post might do. It'll create more hate toward the ideology of Islam, which at the end of the
day, if people knew how to say, well, I don't like that ideology, do they know how to just not like
an ideology and not let that rub off on the people who hold to the ideology? And to my Muslim family
and friends, do we know how to say we are or identify as Muslims, but not let that be your
identity so much that if someone is being critical of it, that you're not having to attack them?
See, this is the difficult problem. How do we solve it? I really think it's creating the friendships,
getting to understand each other and trying to build relationships across the aisle.
Because when I brought Saraj into my house and I helped him for 30 days, I really had a different
understanding that opened my eyes on Muslims and their families and understanding that they are just
like me. Their mom and dad sound just like my mom and dad. They want what we want. They want good.
We want good. They really do. Now, that's one family. I get it. There might be families somewhere
in the Middle East that hold to what we call backwards ideas and stuff. But even they in
their own worldview, I guarantee you have certain ethics that would relate to what we want and how
we want peace for our families and friends, et cetera, to our own families and whatnot, right?
So we're tribalistic in some sense. This is part of our evolutionary mechanism.
But the point I'm trying to get at is when I'm doing this Islamic material, when I'm studying
with these scholars, when I'm learning from them, yes, I'm understanding that there's non-Muslim
sources and Muslim sources. I want to know it all the same way I approach Christianity or Judaism,
the Hebrew Bible. If I want to understand any worldview, I want to really get all of the picture
and consider all of the pieces from various angles. When nations get conquered and let's say
three different nations have a perspective, I want to know all the different perspectives and give
them the credit they deserve on what they're trying to say. Like oftentimes, when I have debates,
my friend Jonathan Sheffield will go in and what he does is he'll point out what the Bible says.
He tries to use the other sources to kind of help back up his perspective of the Bible, right?
Because, you know, he believes the Bible. But he also is trying to be fair with the other sources.
The scholars I have come on and they want to take the Bible and the other sources and show you why
the other sources are probably more reliable in some way. And if someone believes the Bible is true
and that's their presupposition, then they're going to want to side with the Bible's sources.
And I imagine the same thing would be in Muslim tradition. So if there's non-Muslim sources that
are describing something, is there good reason to say that non-Muslim sources may not have more
accurate information than those who are in Arabia describing this a century or two later?
This is up for debate. This is why I love the scholars. But I say that to say like when we're
engaging into this, there are people in the chat who just want it not to be true. And sure,
I mean, I study this with the assumption that it's man-made. But I don't want us to use this
as a polemic and as a weapon against our friends and whatnot. I know some people will do that
regardless. I want us to understand it because I honestly just intrinsically have an interest
on wanting to know the history of how these religions develop. I'm quite fascinated in
understanding man and why we think the way that we do. Why did these religions evolve and why
do they take on new traditions and knowing what people believed and all of those things.
And if I was born in a Muslim country and I believed what I believed, I'd hope someone would try to
empathize and understand me even if they didn't believe me and vice versa. So I really want peace.
I really want us to understand each other better. But what I find often is polemics and battles and
wars going back and forth and debates and this and that. I think we need to do something different.
I think we need to try and create conversations, not debates about who's got a bigger, you know,
what. Because that doesn't help. It's just feeding the tribalism on one side against the other.
Is there a way we can bridge it? Is there a way we can have those conversations respecting each
other enough but coming closer? My experience with Siraj told me they're just like me.
And would I attack myself? Would I think less of my family and what I have?
We don't understand each other enough and I think we need to understand each other more.
That's my honest from the heart. And so please take the time. Go subscribe to Teran Pools.
And I hope I'm pronouncing your name correctly, brother. We are now in connection and we're talking
now. I really want people to go and support good channels. Go support scholarship because we need
to learn from each other if we're going to understand these things.
That being said, ladies and gentlemen, I hope your heart is like mine and you want to create a
better world and don't blame all Muslims for this 24-year-old's action over here against Salman
Rushdie. Salman has every right to speak the way he wants, to criticize as he wants in the West
and that man's actions were wrong. And many of my Muslim friends think that that man's actions
were wrong. And how do they justify that the actions of that man were wrong? Just depends on
the Muslim you ask. A lot of them say to kill one man is to kill all humanity, which is something
that they quote. So let's give them credit. When Muslims are saying that, give them the credit.
Let's show them like, yes, this is good. And I just felt like I wanted to make this video because
that truly is my heart. Yes, I'm a critic. Yes, I want to poke holes. Yes, I want to understand
how these things, these stories, these legends, these folklore, how all of this stuff develop.
That's why I love scholarship. But let's not be weapons against ourselves. Because if you fight
these other people, the way I look at it now is we're fighting ourselves. We are human race. We
are all humans here and we're all trying to live and let live. We have to try to come closer.
And I don't think fighting is going to help. That's my heart. That's my struggle. And that's
what I'm trying to do with my channel, Myth, Vision podcast. I love you. And I hope you're with me in
this, that we can go and try to better the world and bring light to these ideas. So to my Muslim
friends who are watching, I love you. To my Jewish friends who are watching, I love you.
To my Christian friends who are watching, I love you. And I want to try and be a better person
in those conversations with whoever and wherever you're from. So that goes for all my friends,
Hindus, you name it, right? But I have specifically engaged in the Abrahamic faith so far and then
some of the cults that are out there. But I want to do better. And I hope you will as well. Thank
you. Join Myth, Vision's Patreon today to access hundreds of videos that I have worked hard in
high quality content that are not in public domain. They're only on the Patreon. You also
have direct access to me, referring academics, questions, ideas, or just want a private chat.
You have that access with me. Also, I'm trying to do more traveling to educate people from more
academics and expand what kind of material I do produce on Myth, Vision. This is a full-time gig
and you're helping the community by joining. I'm trying to put together more to educate people
who have harmful, cultic practices or ways in which they're harming society. We are educating them
from Myth, Vision on better understanding these ancient texts and mythologies and history
in a way like not many shows do. So please, I could use your help and you're going to get
and benefit a lot by joining as a member.
