We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
The host, Derek Lambert, I am.
And I'm being, I guess you educated today by Karen Delacrier.
This is a recent situation, a lawsuit that just happened.
And so Karen, tell us what's going on and why this is such an important lawsuit.
Hi, everybody.
Greetings, Derek.
Good to see you.
Welcome back.
Derek, before I get into the lawsuit, I have to tell you a little of the story of this
valiant, beautiful girl called Valeska Paris.
Valeska was her parents were Scientologists and they were roped into the sea orc.
And as a young 12 year old, her sister was six years old.
They were hurled into communal living at St. Hill.
And they lived in a ghastly building, Cindy, the picture called Stonelands, looks like a
ghost.
It's a huge, dark structure, dark.
And it's out in the boonies.
And it was haunted as you believe in ghosts.
Anyway, what happened is Valeska's mom went on, she exited and she went on national TV
in France, talking about their secret, secret body babies, talking about, oh, this, this
volcano is blowing up with all these spirits and the spirits that touch him.
In those days, there was no higher, this was their holy, this was their secret of secrets.
See, Derek, this is the thing I like to discuss with you, Christianity is totally open, no?
There's the Bible, Bible has some gory things, but take it or leave it, this is the doctrine
we believe in.
Do you agree with that?
Yeah, I mean, the pen times don't have secret, secret things that you can only climb up and
what?
I mean, there is this idea that Christianity came out of mystery cults.
But it was, you didn't pay, all right, you earned your way into knowing the true teachings,
but it was through obedience and figuring out like initiating yourself deeper into it.
So, for example, in a sense, where as Scientology works off something like this model, Scientology
has a far, far greater harm and it's a moneymaker machine, whereas in Christianity, it wasn't
just Christianity that there's people who make the case, some of the academics think
that this early movement, in order to be able to know the teachings, you had to be baptized,
you had to become water baptized in order to be part of it.
Another interesting inner teaching is that you needed to participate in the Eucharist.
You needed to eat the flesh and drink the blood of the God in order to be deeper into
the teachings.
But it isn't just this religion that that's part of, like this is something well known
in the ancient world that there are kind of tears to knowing the truth, but what Scientology
did is take it to a whole different level.
There is sworn to secrecy oaths in other cults in the ancient world where they said, if you
tell these secrets, we'll kill you, of our cult.
We will kill you.
Now, this is way back.
There's no reason this should be something going on in the 21st century, but way back
they had these ideas because they believed that most people couldn't handle these or
they would do evil with these teachings.
In what I hear in the Scientology cult is if you tell these things that you're going
to cause people to die, you're going to cause this sin or you're going to cause them to
get cancer or they're going to get some disease or something's going to happen to them or
you yourself will die because you say these words.
Yeah, but Derek, here's the thing.
Here's what I want you to do.
In Scientology, you only know basic, common, harmless features.
You don't know what lies ahead.
Right.
And this whole thing of exercising your spirits is very hidden.
Of course, now it comes out more and more.
But what religion has secrets that you only achieve through more and more cash, more and
more cash?
That's what I'm saying because if you walked in the door and they said, look, just like
the Christians do.
There's the Bible.
You can read it from cover to cover.
This is what we believe, Jesus died for your sins, blah, blah, blah.
In Scientology, you don't know any of the exorcism, which is a major part of Scientology.
Right.
From OT3 to OT8, you're expelling and jettisoning these attached spirits with Scientology techniques
which they believe only they have.
No other entity, no other religion, no other psychological.
No one has tools to expel or jettison out your infested embodied spirits other than
them at great price.
We're talking $752,000 an hour to jettison these spirits.
Right?
Right.
And...
There's nothing like that that I am aware of.
Up front, if you walked in the door and said, look, we will get rid of your spirits.
All your cancer, your diabetes, they're not allowed to say that because then that comes
under pretending that they can handle medicine.
And they've been in trouble in hot water many times because there are issues in OT5,
Net4OT, which clearly says the malfactions in the body are directly connected to the
spirits and so on.
So what I'm saying is, what other religion hides the deep, deep secrets and lures you
in with innocent lower level data and then only launches on you when you're a quarter
of a million dollars already into it?
Nothing like that.
That's what I was saying.
This money making scheme that they have, I don't know of anything like that.
Like I said, they're using a model though that exists already.
So this is once again, getting back to this, remember, in our last episode, we talked about
how science fiction meets religion and they're using common, well-known and even practical
teachings that you find from religion.
And then they're taking the imagination and they want to marry the two.
In this case, it sounds like what they've done is they've taken models that have worked
within, let's say, Freemasonry because you have ranks in different levels.
You can rise to the top and you get special rewards when you go up higher.
The same is probably said of some of these ancient mystery religions where they tell
you an entry level teaching and then later you find out, kind of to give you an example,
you're going to, this will be relatable probably within Scientology.
There are certain scholars that think Christianity tells you these things on the service level
and I'm not talking about Christianity you see in churches today, like early versions
of Paul and stuff, that when you came in the door, there's certain teachings, but then
eventually it's like, you're actually the divine.
You have the spark.
You are one with the divine God above and this kind of stuff, you don't learn that right
when you walk in the door.
They want you to earn your way in as you initiate and rise up, but they're not saying, oh, write
a check out for this much.
So they have taken a model that is going on in different religions and in different secret
society groups and stuff and they have made it a money scheme.
They've lured you in with all these, haha, look at that, ooh flashy, ooh looks good, boom,
give me all your money.
And that's what I keep hearing from Scientology.
Everything I know of does that, nothing.
Yeah, so deception, secrets, they're obsessed with your secrets, but this is the most secretive
cult that exists.
They bind you up with one inch thick things you sign that you will never reveal anything
that happened in the seal.
Why?
Why?
Why are there some paranoid on secrecy because they have secrets, a lot of secrets, a lot
of negative secrets.
So Valeska's mom goes on national TV talking about expelling your spirits and what they
do is they always believe that your children that are in the seal belong to them.
You've surrendered them, irrevocably.
So Valeska, in order to be sure her mom can't connect with her, is shipped to Freewings,
this vessel that they own in the Caribbean.
It's mostly stuck in a port called Aruba.
Many people visit Aruba, Bonne and Churza, ABC, Aruba, Bonne and Churza are the three
little islands where the ship rotates to, but they don't go back to Bonne afterwards.
So Aruba, and you know, for the first six years, she was completely imprisoned.
She was not allowed, if she needed to buy toothpaste on deodorant, she had to.
She was allowed off the ship, but only with an escort, and she had hard manual labor for
a baby.
The seal schedule is brutal.
She was like a cleaner and a janitor and hours and hours a day, as a youngster in her, well,
I think she was not that young by the time she went to Freewings.
I think she was 18, but it was slave labor.
And a couple of times she was punished.
And the punishment on Freewings is engine room detail.
The engine room is very smelly and very dark and very hot through the heat, over 100 degrees.
And what you do in the engine room is you ship paint or you polish hour after hour after
hour.
You're in this dungeon of the ship, the dark, dark engine room.
And Valeska reports on how a couple of times she was found unconscious.
She passed out the heat and the hours and hours of labor on sleep deprivation.
Now let's examine that, Derek.
Scientology tells that it'll handle your trauma, handle your incidents of unconsciousness.
They know how to handle it, but they're creating unconsciousness in their punishment.
Is it just the complete reverse of everything I studied and learned that Scientology would
rescue you out of these incidents of unconsciousness, specifically unconsciousness, known as an
ingrate?
If I could comment, just to point out something that I think is interesting.
What Scientology is trying to tell you is they have a cure, but they give you the disease.
And it's not that they just give you the disease, they actually will give it to you in real
time, in real life.
Just to use it as an analogy to what I was bringing up about Christianity earlier, the
teaching of Christianity is that you have sins that you need to be saved from, and if
you're not saved, you're going to go to hell forever.
But it's an imaginary, in my opinion, it's an imaginary place that you think you're going
to go when you die.
Not now.
There's only one cult I think the Jehovah's Witnesses think this is hell, but ultimately
it's where you're going to go.
But as far as in this world repercussions, like usually no, like it's in your head.
It's something that you're scared of.
It's a thought.
It's not like now.
Scientology gives you this, you're sick, but we have a cure.
Don't worry.
And then they amplify the disease when you don't do the things they want to in this world.
That's the scary part about this cult is that it's doing these things now.
I mean, sure, I think they're all harmful in some ways, but this is the this ranks way
up there in terms of what you're describing here, this dark.
You know, one day on free winds, she was servicing Tom Cruise.
And she had bubbled up a little cold sore.
And either Tom Cruise reported it or someone observed it.
And as punishment, she was mooted to the engine room.
To scrape metal.
How dare she be a waitress for Tom Cruise!
With a little pimple.
What if it was her?
What if she could infect the Lord of the Realm, Tom Cruise, the VIP that brings in all these people?
That was her Tom Cruise punishment.
I hope Cruise, I hope some of his staff watch some of these videos.
Because he's oblivious to or he doesn't know.
He doesn't care.
How either who are punished.
He doesn't have a clue.
Yeah.
So for 12 years, Valeska was on this ship with all her ups and downs and her punishments held against will.
She made it quite known that she did not want to be there.
But you see the ship, Derek, cruises outside of jurisdiction of the FBI and other agencies.
Because it's only in these waters.
And in order to avoid and evade justice, the ship is registered to Panama.
That's not an American ship registered in Miami.
It's a Panama ship and it's licensed by some.
It's got a smoke and mirrors and its certification is from Ecuador.
I'm making that up.
There's no American jurisdiction of the ship.
Although I would say as much as 60, 70% of the crew are all American.
So eventually it was a dark life for 12 years.
She got off from her mom and a dad.
And I'm going to send you a heartbreaking disconnection letter.
Her own father wrote her, please put it up.
He wrote, see, so she was in prison for 12 years.
Then she was sent to the RPF prison camp in Sydney, Australia.
She had married an Australian called Chris Guida who was an up and coming rising runway star and he got recruited.
So they were in the prison camp in Sydney and both of them fled and escaped.
And then Valeska started speaking out.
She had just endured 12 years of imprisonment.
Derek, people who had nothing to do with Scientology, who do videos just on cruise ships,
grabbed her story and did a bit and Valeska kept speaking.
Because this is pretending to be a cruise ship and imprisoning people from their mom.
This is giving cruise ships a dirty name.
It just kept going and Valeska's story, well, she did several interviews.
And I want you to take a couple of clips on fair use.
Please take a couple of clips and just add it as live footage.
It's hard to take because it's fair use.
You can take a tiny clip from 30 seconds, 60 seconds from Valeska speaking in her own voice.
She's a dear friend of mine.
Every time she comes to the United States, I host her in my home.
And we talk and talk and talk the most extraordinary stories of what happened on freeways.
And now we come to the peak experience of this show.
A couple of days ago, Valeska and two other big children, one who was in prison there since he was six years old,
called Gawain Baxter and his wife Laura.
All three of them lived on this ship for years as prisoners.
Child labor, slave labor, as children.
Well, Gawain was much younger.
They filed in federal court in Tampa an incredible lawsuit.
Now, Tony Otega posted this plus the entire lawsuit.
Derek, I'm asking you, when you do the description of this video,
could you just link Tony's site?
Because some people watching this would like to see the lawsuit.
What are the details?
What really went on on this prison ship?
And it's so beautiful.
The lawsuit reads like a Tom Clancy thriller.
It's just like, ah, what?
You're kidding.
This day and age now?
This is what Scientology does to prisoners on their so-called freeways.
Free.
So we've posted the lawsuit to the description because now we get to the nitty gritty.
Now, it just, Karen says this and Derek is, you know, also just, this is two of the biggest law firms with huge credentials.
These lawyers charged like $1,500 an hour.
They, the cream of the crop, they took on this lawsuit.
They're representing Baleska and Gawain and Laura.
These are high, high, high lawyers.
These are not, you know, some little law firm looking just for some notoriety.
These are prestigious law firms that have taken it off.
And this is what I mean by erosion.
Every time you think you've heard it all, another astounding story comes out of the internal brutality because Scientology is only for self.
We have to expand.
We have to propagate.
We need statistics.
We need cash.
It doesn't matter if you're a child or you're going to work for us.
It's completely a self interest.
It's just nauseous how it only cares for self promotion and self protection.
Derek.
Sure.
That's, I mean, it is wild and it cannibalizes itself.
This is what, this is why you're right in the last episode, you're talking about the wave that's crashing up against the rock and it's slowly deteriorating this thing.
But if they get caught doing something on a level of human trafficking and they're able to prove it's the cult, I hope the whole thing comes crashing down.
That's all I could say.
I just do.
I just hope the whole thing comes crashing down.
It's really sad that you have this in America, right?
What the heck is going on here?
We should really be clamping down on this because the cult is not just a mental thing.
This case that you're describing is showing physical.
That's my point about like some ideas are harmful.
Some ideas are bad ideas.
Thinking you're going to be cooked in hell for all eternity doesn't sound very nice.
Nobody likes that idea.
Okay.
And people use that to control people.
They do.
They've been doing it for thousands of years.
However, this is not just in the mind.
This is the mind and physical.
There is literal crap going on right now with this cult and it's floating on a ship that's named Freedom.
I mean, how are you doing this?
So I definitely want to try and email her and see if I can get her to come on as well.
She's been on shows with Jeffrey and she's wonderful to interview.
I don't know if her lawyers will allow her to do media while I'll find it.
But anyway, here's the thing.
The American government can't do anything to a Panamanian ship which is not somehow floating.
Freedom will never come to an American port where the FBI can.
Was she an American citizen?
She's Swiss.
Okay.
But I think she has, she married an Australian, her kids are born in Australia.
She's Swiss and her mother was French.
But yeah, she lived 20, 25 years of her life as a slave in the seal.
Now, you know, what can they do about freedom?
It's not an American war.
Yes, most of the staff are huge amount of Americans, but it's what jurisdiction?
What can they do about it?
Freedom is absolutely notorious as a prison ship and punishment ship, punishment ship.
My ex-husband, Heba Jench, who for 30, 40 years, he has dementia now.
He says, sort of Alzheimer's after 50 years in the cult, his mind is fried.
He was sent for punishment 10, 15 years ago with my friend Heba Jench and Markega to clean the bilges 14 hours a day.
The bilges is the lowest part of the ship where drainage from toilets and lapping seaworks.
Some water gets on any ship and it has to drain out.
And the bilges should only be cleaned by machines.
It's bacteria infested.
It's just gungy, dark, black masses.
And 12 hours a day, when you get Micrinda back, you can discuss his days at the bilges with my ex-husband.
So they didn't want the world to see that David Miscavige was punishing the president of the church,
the PR spokesman of the church, Micrinda, Markega, commanding officer Seymour.
So they didn't want to punish locally.
So they sent them to Freewins outside of Scientology View to clean the bilges 12 hours a day.
So Freewins was the punishment ship of David Miscavige.
If he wanted to brutalize you out of jurisdiction of the FBI and government agencies, you were sent to Freewins.
And there's Tom Cruise having a $400,000 birthday party.
He's on top and high rollers of the cult to giving them money and enjoying lobster, vermin,
or a beautiful service from waiters in the restaurant.
And underneath it is the cruelty beyond belief.
That's Freewins.
Freewins had Meleska, I'll see if she'll interview with you.
Meleska had this poignant story of a guy called Javier, a Mexican, who fell in love with some girl.
But she was a messenger, which is high up the hierarchy.
And he was a lowly deckman, but it was a fallen love.
He just had this big crush.
And he was holding to ethics.
Ethics means you see an ethics officer that's going to punish you, often severely.
And I don't know what the ethics officer did with him, but then he hung himself on Freewins suicide.
He hung himself. He was a dead body on Freewins.
And do you know, the cult was able to cover it up completely till Veleska told the story.
And it went all over. Nobody knew Javier killed himself after he's been told through ethics.
And at night they got the body off the ship and they got some coroner to say he had a heart attack or whatever.
He hung himself.
And apparently he was a beautiful soul.
And no memorial, no remnants of Javier, this poor guy who got sucked into Scientology,
only to be brutalized and kill himself on Freewins.
But you see, Freewins has all these dark secrets that never ever get exposed till we do videos like this.
So good on Veleska. I knew for a long time this lawsuit was coming.
I knew, I knew, I was jubilant to see the lawsuit. It made my day.
Yeah.
This is heavy duty. And as the lawsuit proceeds, we are viewers on, this is a heavy, heavy,
oh, and David Muscavige is an interesting party. They're suing David Muscavige.
Good.
Because ultimately he orders, David Muscavige orders, important things like this don't just,
no lower level fish can. He would have ordered her siphoned away from her mom.
Wow.
For all, for 12 years, cut off from her mom because her mom was folk out and they wanted Veleska as their slave,
not to be contaminated by her mom talking to her.
So this is exciting. This is a huge hit. This full custom, huge sums of money to defend.
So far, when media have checked with them, do you have any statement?
Silence. So far, the cult has not even responded. Usually they immediately go, they immediately have a pre-prepared statement.
This is all lies. That's their defense. It's all lies. It's all lies. We're innocent.
They don't seem to be able to do better than that. Every single huge thing that defenses their line.
It gets old when people after people after people after people come giving out their horror stories.
This thing of, oh, she's lying. They try to say that, oh, it's all lies.
Old lies with numerous people coming out saying the same thing over and over and over again.
But this lawsuit has a lot of teeth in it. It has tiger shot canines.
If you only could read some of it, please post it, Derek.
I will.
So good on you, Veleska. Good on you. Good on you going.
Hooray.
I'm looking forward to it. Yeah, go down in the description. Check out the link by Tony. Keep your eye out on the case.
I can't wait to see what happens. I'm fascinated with figuring out when this thing is going to really change.
I hope Scientology either goes under or it has to change.
And something needs to be done. I just, I'm glad that these cases are happening.
Karen, this is heartbreaking, but she has a life now.
She's able to speak out. Nobody should ever have to go through this kind of stuff, but let's see what happens in the end.
And I hope she's successful. And I hope she's rich after this.
And I hope that she can enjoy every moment of the rest of her life and wake people up to keep people from ever going into cults.
You know, this is my myth vision is to get people to see before they ever get caught up in these things.
And they're stuck mentally or mentally and physically in cults like Scientology.
Beautifully spoken. Thank you, Derek. That was nice.
Just want to correct myself because I'm going to send a link.
The guy who committed suicide, I think his name was Jose, not Javier.
So when we put the link in here, then she said, Javier, this is Jose.
I think I got the, I think I got the name wrong.
So if, if the suicide data link that you thought coming, you'll see in the description, I think his name was Jose.
He was a dear, dear Mexican.
But anyway, free wins is free.
Free wins. This is yet another story on free wins.
Okay, Derek, we are revealing truth.
Yes.
Truths will blow away the denials and the lives.
That's a fact.
It's always lovely to have some time with you, Derek.
And if the audience have listened right up to this point, thank you for staying with us.
Please stay with us. Get educated.
Derek makes a great point.
You can, you can also align your own faith or religion or cult or atheism with what is happening here.
Yeah, I think everybody, no matter where you're at, can agree that this is just dark.
I mean, you know, you could say, Derek, I know you think that hell's a bad teaching and you don't like the idea, but I believe it's true.
Okay, you can say that at the end of the day.
If that's what you want to believe, you can believe in that.
I don't.
But I will tell you that I think that that idea is nothing in comparison to literal slavery here and now in the same way.
I definitely think it's still mentally bad and can cause people in this life some psychological fear and things like that that can impact them here.
But as far as actually putting people on a boat, let's say, called free winds and make them not free.
And they're trapped and they're slave and they're literally tortured by doing certain labors that are harmful, possibly dangerous to death.
And here you have her passing out over and over.
I mean, I can't even imagine what you didn't tell us.
That's all I could say.
I can't imagine what you didn't tell us, Karen.
So I think we can all agree that that level is just overkill.
And it's just something that needs to be removed from planet Earth, from our existence.
Of course, of course.
Thank you, Karen.
Good, Derek.
Thank you so much for giving us another great episode.
Yes, check the description out.
Go subscribe to Karen's YouTube channel.
Stay up to date on these cases that are going on.
And I said cases because it's not just this one.
Goodness gracious.
It never ends with these people.
So thank you, Karen.
And ladies and gentlemen, never forget, we are Myth Fisher.
Thank you.
Thank you.
