All right, looks like we're live.
I hope I'm coming through clear
and the audio is coming through fine.
Welcome back to MythVision.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
Yeah, as we saw in the chat,
Jay Paperson says,
"'Brother Derek, dropping the hammer on that nonsense today.'"
Look, it's nonsense to us, right?
Because we're looking at it and I think seeing it
for what it is.
And it depends on how you're approaching this.
Like if you value and enjoy legend and myth
and things like that, I do too.
So when we say nonsense,
I think what we're saying is,
is trying to make legend and myth,
literal historiography as if this is what actually happened
and you should believe it too or else damnation.
That is the BS I'm talking about.
We watch fiction all the time.
I love Marvel versus Capcom video games.
I got into that.
I played, you know, Mega Man was my stuff,
especially Mega Man X.
I love a video game that gets lost into a world
full of fictional beings or even non-fictional stuff
like Fallout 3, kind of fictional.
There's some fictional stuff that comes in there,
depending on where you're at.
But anyway, post-apocalyptic world,
like you're out here trying to survive.
I love a good fiction.
I love it because I learn some truths.
I'm using that word truth, right?
I learned some lessons.
There's some valuable teachings that you can find
from the non-historical stuff that we feed ourselves.
I had a great interview that just went up on Patreon
with Dr. Richard C. Miller.
Where we talk about dreams.
Why do we dream?
What's going on in our dreams, in the brain?
What do scientists say about this?
Why do we watch TV?
Why do we write literature?
Why do we wanna read literature?
Things like this.
And the subconscious level of why humans
are looking for a narrative or a story or an escape.
And I think that what we've done
is we've kind of taken these things
and put them into tropes literature
throughout the ancient world.
For example, I do think, without a doubt,
we're dealing with legend when we look at Jesus.
This isn't shocking to most viewers who watch MythVision.
To apologist, it's appalling.
It's fighting words.
It's, what are you doing?
No, this actually happened.
Jesus really was born of a virgin.
This fulfills scripture.
And they've taken an approach, a Jenga approach.
And I call it a Jenga, house of cards,
whatever you wanna call it.
The thumbnail of my video for the live stream,
was like, let me find a Jenga tower.
And what they've done is there's these blocks, right?
Anyone who's played Jenga knows
that you're supposed to try and pull the blocks out.
When you pull out too many, eventually the tower falls.
Whoever's the last person to pull a block
and it doesn't fall on them, wins.
To me, it's a Jenga tower.
Because once you've opened up your mind,
this is the first step.
It's almost like I'm dealing with a 12-step meeting here.
First admit you got a problem, right?
First step, you got, okay, maybe I don't know.
Maybe I've been wrong about this whole,
Jesus really, really historically born of a virgin,
lived, actually was crucified, died,
rose again from the dead.
Maybe I'm wrong, but I believe it.
I have faith in it.
I've had subjective experiences.
I have the community of the church.
I have like a lot to lose.
Some cost fallacy or, you know,
I just don't wanna let go of this.
I like the narrative.
I've even asked some Christian scholars,
why are you a Christian?
After they told me Jesus had failed
as an apocalyptic prophet.
And their answer, I respected.
I respected the answer.
They said, I just, I like the environment.
I like the church.
I like the message.
And I'm like, so you're not like saying,
oh, it has to be historical.
This just has to have happened.
No, that's my faith.
That's a totally different thing
than like what I'm doing with my research.
Oh, sounds pretty normal.
And the reason I'm harping on this
is because that's not who I was, right?
I was the apologist guy who really believed
William Lane Craig was right, you know,
he really rose from the dead.
And he's the undefeated opponent apologist
who debates anybody and wins.
And I know that several of my Christian apologist friends
might be like, you know, that's not true.
But, and I respect that.
But I was like, die hard, Ravi Zacharias, William Lane Craig.
I even was big into the least strobe stuff for a long time.
The case for Christ and God has audio book,
read his paper back.
The case for a creator got really deep in all the stuff
because this was true.
And all the other worldviews were wrong,
but I was only raised up through Christianity.
And so I kind of want to play an experiment
a little bit with you today as we go through.
First, allow me to commercial my shameless plug.
As we get into an example,
I want to use some kind of experimental example here.
But I think we all, even the Christian apologist,
would admit to some of these things
or at least say, hey, okay, I'm with you.
I'm on board.
I think you're right on something here.
I agree.
But as soon as it's their own literature,
God forbid, right?
It can't happen.
So I want to say thank you to everybody who's tuned in.
148 people watching live.
Please hit that like button.
Press one if you likey.
I always type it with a little likey at the end.
I mean to put that that way.
So type one if you likey.
And the algorithm gods pay attention to that stuff.
Trust me, I've been learning thing or two
from some of the bigger YouTube channels.
So type one in the chat.
I'm going to put it in there on myself.
One if you likey.
And there you have it.
Now let me go ahead and share my shameless plug
so you can tolerate me just a little bit here.
We got the Patreon.
I've got a new one up right here
with Dennis McDonald Hell Myth,
The Myth of Hell, Manipulative Propaganda of the Saints.
Miracle births, I chose between this thumbnail
and Alexander the Great one,
but the myth of Jesus' birth parallels Alexander the Great.
Dr. Richard C. Miller documents this in his book,
Resurrection and Reception in Early Christianity.
And he shows the parallels between Alexander the Great's
birth, which is documented well before
any of the gospels were produced.
And there are very many traits that have similarities
between the birth narratives.
I swear these authors were working off
some type of common trope.
It's almost like they went to school
and those schools actually kind of told them,
these are the elements you want to incorporate
in your birth narratives.
And the way a birth narrative is seen
as Richard Miller put it,
I wholly agree with him after digging into this
for some time.
It was like a reward.
It's like a trophy.
At the end of your wrestling match,
your football game, your baseball game,
whatever your young, your kids' games, whatever,
someone, you got to relate somehow, some way, shape, or form.
You reward with a trophy.
And when a noble person or someone of great stature,
a philosopher, you name it in the ancient world, died,
you gave them either damnation,
kind of like what we see throughout,
was it first king, second kings?
We're talking about, and this king did evil
in the eyes of the Lord all the days of his life.
And oh, this king did good in all day.
Oh, so he gets kind of a reward, like a stamp of approval.
They don't deify him though.
Here, Jesus gets deified.
Anyway, don't want to get to Jesus too much
because we don't want people running away yet.
All right, I just want to make the point.
It's like they're working off the script
that when a noble person of importance dies,
you give them a hell of a birth,
you give them a hell of a life,
you give them all sorts of portents and miracles,
and this is what they did.
It was the blueprint to an amazing person
as John Dominic Crossen did a debate with a Muslim once
who was talking about,
well, Muhammad never claimed to be son of God
and Allah does not have sons of God in that seventh century.
Like John Dominic Crossen hit the nail on the head.
He said, if your guy existed in the first century,
coming back to me large for a second,
if your guy came into the first century
and tried to pull this stunt,
he would have been like maybe a side note
in a historian's thing on, yeah, this guy of nobody,
this nobody, like he had never made it into fame.
He wasn't a son of God, he never had deification,
his God didn't have any sons, screw them.
That's literally what Muhammad would have been
if he was born in the first century,
trying to play what you see in the seventh century,
then the reason it worked the way that it did in Arabia,
probably helping with the geography,
being distanced from Constantinople,
what was going on and directly in Persia,
but eventually they conquered that pretty quickly.
The only other people that did better
than them were the Mongolians.
So the reason I think they did so well with this
is that for six, seven centuries,
Christians ate each other to death debating,
okay, so the hypostatic union,
Jesus is fully God, but he's also fully man.
No, he's 50% man and 50% God.
Hold on, does that mean that God died on the cross
when Jesus died?
Well, God can't die.
Yes, he can, he can because he's God in the flesh.
I mean, this debate, think about this,
for six or 700 years, you hear these Christians
arguing this stuff, something new comes up
and it tries to correct the earlier issues
that are being debated over for centuries.
I mean, no wonder it caught on like wildfire,
especially in a region that wasn't so
in this orthodox pocket, so to speak,
especially when you look at the Quran,
we're gonna get to that in a minute
because I wanna use that as a jumping point
for apologists, Christian apologists
who are investigating this to like,
they'll hold my hand on the Quran
and then let go when we get to the New Testament.
It's just part of the nature of how this goes
because it's our special literature.
We have to defend our truth, our claims.
I don't wanna look like an idiot out here
running around telling you,
Jesus really rose from the dead
and defend this wholeheartedly
and then turn around and be like,
okay, maybe that's legend, no.
Let's laugh at Derek's walk like a duck,
talk like a duck thing, right?
Let's mock his little analogies and parallels
and do all that kind of stuff.
So I get it, it's fun and games and I enjoy doing these.
I love the conversation that goes back and forth
because it doesn't, it really doesn't offend me at all.
I'm pretty confident in what I'm saying here
about this being legendary
and it not being the case,
literal historical, et cetera.
Great stories, learned some lessons,
probably disregard some as well.
They've got some dated expirations on some of this stuff,
you know, anywho.
Back to my shameless plug.
So I think that you gotta understand
why they would have imitated these earlier,
Alexander the Great, Caesars, you name it.
You gotta compete with the head honchos.
You gotta compete with the best, the best of the best.
My dad in high school,
when he was watching a commercial on TV,
there was Ranger, Army Rangers,
jumping out of helicopters in Grenada
and the commercial had some theme music in the background
and the guy speaking was like,
do you want to be the best of the best?
And my dad was like, damn right.
He was a running back in football up in New York in college.
He got a, what do you call that?
Grant to go through college and he was a running back
because he was physically athletic and alpha male type.
He was like, I want to be the best of us.
He joined the military, became a Ranger,
imitating the baddest ass of the baddest ass.
If you take like the locker room talk of males
that love to be like, oh, I'm the man.
Trust me, my whole life was like this with my dad.
Love him to death.
He's not someone I'd want to mess with if I had to fight.
But at the end of the day, I don't want to imitate that.
I would want to if it was war, right?
If we really had to go to war,
but apart from that, no thanks.
They wanted imitate the best.
Who were the best?
Alexander the Great's, the Caesars,
the amazing myths of the world.
That's how they did it.
And so the birth narratives, you see this in Plutarch.
He describes Plato's birth, the greatest of philosophers.
Well, who else is the greatest of philosophers?
Paul, Acts 17.
He's even encountering Stoics and Epicureans.
Wouldn't you know it?
Who else?
Maybe a guy named Jesus.
Anyway, shameless plug, rank raglan mythic hero.
Dr. Miller is not a mythicist.
He doesn't think it's silly though
to even engage the idea.
Like I don't either.
But he engages this rank raglan mythic hero
showing that raglan did not himself
even categorize Jesus in this.
It was later people who did.
But we go through that.
All of this stuff here,
you can join for $3 a month literally
and help support what we're doing
if you appreciate what we're doing here at MythVision.
And you'll access all the videos.
The reason I have different tiers is that some people
really believe in what we're doing and they can afford it.
But I wanna make it accessible to everybody.
Wrong about the Gospels.
Faith equals make believe.
And this is an interesting way approaching this
with me and Richard Miller.
You wanna check that out.
If you can't afford it, got it.
It'll be out at some point in the future.
Like they're participating in this mythic cult.
Like willingly indulging or willingly volunteering
their mental faculties into the cultic practice.
And this is how it was with all the different cults.
Mystery cults, you name it,
using heuristic approaches, contemporaneous to Jesus.
They all willingly participated.
And this is where it gets weird.
Like look at the cult of Addis.
People were cutting off pecker and balls to be like Addis.
Literally.
I mean, look at Origen.
He became a eunuch.
We find a passage in Matthew where Jesus talks
about like greater is the eunuch.
You know, like you're really good
if you devote yourself completely to the kingdom of God
and don't worry about earthly family and all that.
Like they're willingly devoting themselves
to this mythic cultic environment.
Not because Addis literally historically did this, did that,
or that Jesus necessarily literally historiographically
rose from the dead in the literal sense.
Just like Romulus literally historiographically appeared
to eyewitnesses or Caesars postmortem appearing
to people on roads, just like the road to Emmaus and Luke,
literally has Jesus appear to people
that they don't recognize him.
And then the same author in Acts has him appear
to Paul on a road to Damascus.
Road appearances, well known before the gospels
with the Caesars and Romulus.
Why would you imitate Romulus and the Caesars?
Hmm, I wonder, especially if you're trying
to reach a Gentile Greek and Roman audience.
Anywho, we go through all sorts of stuff.
Mythmaking, I already did this one live.
Just another demigod.
Demons did it.
Jesus and the Sons of Zeus with Justin Martyr.
We have a blast, Jesus fables.
Anyway, I've been doing a lot with that.
We've got two courses coming up with Robin Faith Walsh.
You're gonna wanna stay tuned on.
Check out our MVP courses.com.
Lecture one in David Litwa.
Ancient Greek mysteries,
dealing with the mystery cults,
including the mystery language of Paul.
Is there some commonality between Paul's letters
and the mystery cults of the time?
Samothration, Eleusinian, takes a second to load.
Orphic Dionys, Dionysian, Isis and Osiris,
Piamanderus, Corpus, Hermeticum mysteries,
Sibley and Addis, and of course Christianity
and the mysteries.
Also, the quest for the historical Jesus,
just going through the scholarship
of where New Testament studies is today
and great men along the way.
Creating Jesus, one of my favorite courses
with James Tabor, reading Mark as Mark.
Not as Matthew paints Mark or tries to correct Mark
or tries to add to and change and do his own thing.
Literally Mark as Mark.
And we go in depth.
So once you get trained on seeing a gospel
in its own little window,
that changes the game on how you understand
or approach these gospels.
Also introduction to the New Testament
for everyone with Richard Carrier.
He goes into like, how do you even navigate
investigating or looking up words
and the meaning of stuff?
So you can sign up for that.
Dennis McDonald's course that I edited
and I participated in.
This was a heck of a course, 18 lectures.
You wanna see how the Greek old stories
of Homer's Iliad, the Odyssey, Euripides, Bacchai, et cetera
are being utilized in the New Testament
to imitate and make Jesus better than Dionysus,
better than Odysseus, better than Hector,
better than all the heroes of fame and renown.
Check out the course.
He goes through several things.
We go through the book.
There's so many visuals.
It's a fun, fun course.
Also the real ancient Israelite religions
with Dr. Kip Davis.
And I think he's got an interview coming out
on Paula Gia's channel soon.
So stay tuned.
Now, list of legends in the Koran.
I just Googled this real quick
because I've already looked this up in the past
and I was thinking, Christian apologists
would be more than happy to admit
like the Koran has some legend
because they don't view the Koran as sacred.
They don't think it's scripture.
They think this is some people down in Arabia
that are kind of borrowing and co-opting Jewish
and Christian identity, Jewish and Christian origin stories,
Jewish and Christian tradition, folklore, legend,
mythology, you name it, right?
Because we know that there's also like Jesus turning
the clay birds into living birds in the Koran.
Like Christians from what I know
don't think that literally happened.
That's pseudopigrapha.
They don't agree that cause it's not canon.
Well, the Koran seems to have the sleepers of Ephesus.
I mean, there's various things.
I'll list the number of them here.
So parables, pieces of folklore appear in the Koran
often with similar motifs to Jewish
and Christian traditions,
which may predate those in the Koran.
Some included are the story of Canaan Abel,
Abraham destroying idols, Solomon's conversion with an aunt.
I mean, that should read flaggy, right?
Like his conversation, sorry, with an aunt.
The story of the seven sleepers of Ephesus,
which is an important one.
Several stories about Mary, mother of Jesus,
folklorist Alan Dunn's has noted three folk tales
in the Koran that fit the pattern.
Those included in the Arne Thompson classification systems
of folklore narrative.
Peter G, I'm not even gonna butcher his name.
The Koran mentions accusations
by non-believers contemporaries of Muhammad
that many stories in the Koran are fables.
The Koran mentions this.
Now, I don't know about you,
but you probably would agree with me.
Like this makes sense, right?
Those who disbelieve say.
The Koran is telling you that supposedly
this is what disbelievers at the time are saying.
This Koran is but a fabrication
which he, Muhammad, himself has invented
and some others have helped him with.
So they have produced a wrong and a falsehood.
They also say, those disbelievers,
it consists of only fables of the ancients,
which we have got written.
They are being read to him in early mornings and evenings
while people are at home, so nobody's around.
Say it is a book full of knowledge revealing many secrets
such as no human being could in any other,
in any wise discover by himself.
He who knows all the secrets contained in the heavens
and earth sends it down to teach you some of these secrets
and guide you in your life
so that you may attain happiness in both worlds.
He surely is all forgiving, all compassionate.
Now, look, that was nice at the end there.
I've heard many Muslims today, they'll use this like,
there's secret things that nobody could have taught them.
That's why they die on the scientific miracle claim,
some of them, they go,
hey, this is scientific miracles at the Koran noon,
you know, in the seventh century AD
and we only now know from science.
This is kind of the stuff that encourages that thought,
but I don't think that's what was necessarily being meant here.
I just think that gets used by apologist in the Muslim world.
Now Christians, I hope you would like,
amen me, high five me and go, yeah, we don't buy that.
But the question is why?
Why?
There's so many Muslims in the world, right?
Using kind of a broad amount of people who believe
this is really Allah's word, the true God,
the one and only true God,
not the Trinity, pagan, polytheistic deity
as they would love to throw at you.
No, this is the one true God who's conveying his revelation.
Now, I hope you would read this and go,
maybe this is really accurately portraying
that there were people at this time that were saying this.
The other option is whoever's writing the Koran at the time
is vocalizing this to try and like,
deal with contemporary issues
when the Koran's being compiled or created.
So if, you know, Uthman is over here
and they're putting the Koran together
and there's people who are saying, hey, you guys are,
some of these stories you're putting in here,
because I don't think the Koran existed
when Muhammad was around.
It's after he died, which means it's anachronistic.
So some of these things you guys are putting in here, man,
these are stories we already know about.
These are already been written down.
What are you doing?
You guys must be writing these things down
or talking to Muhammad when we're all in bed at night
and we're not around in the morning.
That's how he's getting this information.
I don't know what the truth is about that.
I could tell you what I think that is far more likely
than, well, demons made the stories beforehand
using Justin Martyr's kind of analogy.
I'm being a little bit funny here,
but demons, well before the Koran,
made those stories look like
what the Koran was gonna eventually have in it.
And sure enough, the Koran has the accurate version.
They do this with the creation mythology of the Bible.
The Koran does this with almost everything.
I mean, the real true son of Abraham
ends up Ishmael, not Isaac.
They kind of cut the Jews off in a way.
In some sense, you can see that they're like,
hey man, we're really the chosen child.
They've kind of created and connected themselves
so that their book kind of,
I guess you'd say negates anything prior to it
as falsehoods, inaccuracies, et cetera.
And they can get away with some of this.
There are many Muslims who watch myth vision
and they see the critiques we give of the Bible,
the critiques we give of the New Testament
and their high-fiving myth vision going,
amen, we see it, we agree.
Why?
Because they, in their own point of view,
don't need those texts to be accurate.
In fact, it helps their case in their mind,
the apologist in the Muslim world,
that I show critiques like problems
with New Testament stuff, contradictions,
myths, legends, et cetera.
And they just go, yep, the Koran already predicted this one.
Check, check.
Wow.
So we've got Muslims going, amen, to myth vision
when we're critiquing New Testament Gospels
or we're critiquing the Bible.
Because remember, there's all sorts of flaws
and man has tampered with it and changed the true message.
But somehow, seven centuries after Jesus,
the real true message comes.
And of course, what better way than an unfalsifiable way
of saying an angel named Gabriel in a cave gave this to a guy?
You can't prove he didn't.
Prove he didn't, Derek.
I mean, I can give you very good reasons to say
this literature floating around in Arabia,
we know Christians and monasteries and such
were in Arabia at the time.
We have archeological data to show
Christianity was down there in some forms.
This literature in Egypt's not too, too far, by the way,
from where all this was starting.
So I see some of the literature
that would have come from Alexandria, Egypt
or these regions coming over into the Quran.
What's more likely?
The angel Gabriel literally gave the revelation
to a guy in a cave that looks very much
like the Christian literature
that's already been existing for centuries.
The Jewish literature, which have been existing
for centuries or they ended up borrowing
from the literature of Jews and Christians around.
That seems the most plausible to me.
I wouldn't go and jump to the conclusion
of the angel Gabriel.
And I hope that Christian apologists watching me so far
are like, yeah, I'm with you, we agree.
Like, we're on the same page.
I don't, for one second, think that the Quran
is truly God's word and they might have several other
reasons they might bring up.
Canaan Abel, Abraham destroys his idols,
which you get in the Ka'ba and you start seeing,
okay, what the heck's going on?
Solomon in the Valley of the Ants,
which is pretty, I can't get any clearer
than that in my opinion.
There's a lot of them.
So you just Google legends in the Quran,
you'll find Dua Kar'in is a really big one to me
because this one deals with Alexander the Great.
And we know historically, Alexander the Great,
he loved a man.
And we're pretty, I mean, from what I can tell,
most Muslims I know see same-sex relationships
as like one of the big sins, right?
One of the big ones, just the same way,
like super conservative Christian nationalist
or Christian evangelicals kind of see homosexuality
or same-sex relationships as like the big no-no.
And this guy is like the legendary hero.
Alexander the Great was so gangster.
I'm gonna use modern language.
So badass in his conquering the world,
which Muslims eventually do,
at least a large portion of it, pretty quickly,
that he ends up in their holy scriptures
under the name Dua Kar'in, the two-horned one.
Now, I know apologists will try to argue,
they will try to not make this Alexander the Great.
I've already done interviews with academics
who have shown contemporaneous data from literature
using similar linguistics and things,
showing you Dua Kar'in is Alexander the Great.
Christian apologists, if they watched it, would be like,
dude, amen, brother, hallelujah,
you're saying what we love to see
and that's what's going on here, we agree.
Muslims won't agree with me, they will die on the hill
or if they do agree with me, they don't see any problems
with it and there's some Muslims,
like academic ones that I've talked to, who go,
actually I think that Kar'in has some mythology in it
and I've actually preached this in a, what is that,
what is their holy, well, their particular places of worship.
I can't think right now.
So anyway, forgive my blankness there,
but I've had academics come in and there's like Harvard
scholars in their Muslims as well,
but there are academics in this and they'll go, yeah,
there's legend, there's myth, but they still find value
and truth and some of the message
and find a way to make their religion work for them.
They're not apologists dying on dumb hills like this though.
They're not trying to like make this a different figure
than what it really is and I respect that, I respect that.
So we start getting to Christian mythology
and some of these apologists, I think would admit with me,
not New Testament, my friends, don't run away yet, please,
please stay here, I'm here with you, we're holding hands,
everything's fine, I'm not touching your New Testament,
it's okay, we're good.
I'm talking Christian mythology.
I'm talking about the church's history of making stuff up,
fanciful narratives and stories, embellishing saints, et cetera,
which the Protestant, if you're Protestant,
you should be high-fiving me right now, right?
Cause this is exactly what Martin Luther
and John Calvin and all of them did.
They were like, cut the crap out, quit selling indulgences.
We need to get back to the true faith
and they start debunking all the miracle claims
and they show, but anyway, Christian mythology,
the body of myths associated with Christianity
determine compasses, a broad variety of legends and narratives,
especially those considered sacred narratives.
Mythological themes and elements occur
throughout Christian literature,
including reoccurring myths, such as ascending a mountain,
the Axis Mundi, myths of combat,
descent into the underworld,
accounts of a dying and rising God, a flood myth,
stories about the founding of a tribe or city
and myths about great heroes or saints of the past,
paradises and self-sacrifice.
Various authors have also used it
to refer to other mythological and allegorical elements
found in the Bible, such as the story of Leviathan.
What I'm not gonna read all of this,
I do wanna just say one thing about this.
Christians were making great narratives
to tell their own little stories throughout history, right?
This should be a no-brainer,
Christian apologists, high five,
Protestants, you're with me, high five.
Can you hear that?
That's right, we're high fiving, everything's cool.
Nobody's afraid, nobody's worried,
nobody's got anything to argue with me about,
at least if you're a Christian apologist Protestant.
Maybe if you're a Roman Catholic or Eastern Orthodox
or something else, maybe you're gonna say,
oh, I take issue with this,
some of this stuff may not be that case.
Some of you might be like, Derek, we're cool with that.
We like the legend and the myth.
We don't think it literally happened.
These are lessons, they're meant to be read as myth
and legend, and they're teaching us valuable lessons
about life and what it was like for them,
and there's so much we can glean from this information.
I agree with you, awesome, we're on the same page.
Now, I wanna take a little bit closer step toward
first century, but not quite necessarily,
and I just wanna point out how often
pseudopigrapha non-canonical material was written,
and how often this non-canonical material
was not literally historiography or literal truth
in what actually happened,
but how much it has in common with canonical material.
And several scholars, you can go through the span
of academics that have investigated pseudopigrapha.
What were they doing with this writing?
It depends, depends,
but oftentimes there were embellishing narratives
inventing stories about Jesus or about Paul
or about Peter, the Acts of Peter, the Acts of Paul,
the Acts of John, the Gospel of Mary,
the Gospel of this, the Gospel of that,
the Gospel of Peter, the Gospel of Judas.
Well, they're inventing fiction
where there's some verisimilitude.
It has historical anchoring to the reality
of context oftentimes.
Sometimes they're persecuted and brought before the Caesar
and they're killed in front of the Caesar,
willing to die or they're being told
that they're innocent, et cetera, et cetera.
We are looking at several.
I mean, literally, I would be interested to see
how much pseudopigrapha anyone in these camps
are saying are historical.
And I'm talking about not that they have anchored realities
or possible historical information in them,
because I'm sure there's something there.
You could go with that.
That was a historical place or person or thing,
but are they writing histories?
No.
So the vast majority of this literature
that is not canonical is fiction.
Throughout Christian history,
they're dealing with mythologies, legends, folklore, all that.
Now I'm coming back to me full screen
so you can see my ugly mug.
I'm making a case.
I'm making a case, but I want to pause.
I want to skip.
Let's go back, man.
I'm not interested in stopping at the first century
because I got to keep you with me.
You can't leave me.
Do not forsake me, my friends.
Because I want to deal with the pseudopigrapha of Jewish writings
that predate from Enoch to Melchizedek literature.
I mean, there's literally writings in the Dead Sea scrolls
or the Dead Sea material.
You have the Maccabees.
You have all sorts of literature rooted and anchored
with historical verisimilitude,
but oftentimes fictionalized.
It's narrative.
They're not telling you what literally actually happened.
There are narrative stories to convey messages,
apocalyptic literature to tell you
about what God's going to come back
and he's going to save the day.
And I'm looking at all of that literature and I'm going,
they're not trying to write a literal history here.
They're trying to give you some message of meaning, et cetera.
And the list can go on.
I mean, I've been doing recent interviews.
Again, Richard C. Miller.
You guys know Dennis McDonald.
I have a fascination right now
with those scholars who start with classicists.
They're dealing with a broader Mediterranean world
and the literature of that time,
not starting in New Testament Jewish only kind of ideas.
They need to know both worlds, Jewish and Greek and Roman
in order to really get this, I think.
And most of the scholars aren't trained
evaluating that material.
They're not examining it from both worlds.
They're trying to make apologetics to say,
the Jews hated the Greek material.
The Jews hated it.
Look at the Maccabees.
You guys saw that recent interview, I'm sure, if you haven't.
This is where Tim McGrew, Eric Manning,
Steven Boyce and Jonathan McClatchy
tried to kind of divorce the New Testament Greek literature
from Greek wisdom, Greek antecedents
as if this Greek literature was not eating
and breathing the bread of Greek and Roman,
Hellenistic food to use the literature as food.
That would have been the famous stories of Alexander,
the Caesars, Homer, Euripides, all the above.
Jesus has got to be better than these guys.
I mean, if I was going to make a good business plan,
pretend I was inventing Christianity.
And I said, all right, starting from scratch,
we need to make sure that those non-Jews are buying this.
So all right, how are we going to do this?
All right, so Jesus, okay, he's got to kick Alexander's butt
on his birth narrative.
Let's have him, let's have him face death like Socrates.
How about that?
You know what, he needs to die a hero's death.
And it was because the Jews rejected him
that the city of Jerusalem was destroyed.
So we'll make him like Hector.
I mean, this seems to be what makes the most sense to me,
approaching this material from a literary standpoint,
not a historiography position.
If you're going to make the case,
a historiography position,
we need several early church father examples
where they're making a historiological case
and they're saying, hey, this is history,
but they're not.
And Richard Miller points out the first church father
that even tries to write a history is Eusebius.
And he mentions, he like prays in his past like,
God, give me strength.
I need help because I'm seeing very faint traces
of anything before me.
Nobody's written or took to task this before me.
You've got him mentioning Papias,
who talks about Judas being so wide and bloated,
worms coming out of his penis and eye sockets with pus.
And he's the size of a wagon and he explodes in a field
and it stinks to this day.
He's making stuff up.
He's making stuff up.
So it seems that the modus aparandis to make up stories,
but we get to these four,
really five if you count acts,
but same author of Luke.
And we go, but this is what actually happened.
And when you start looking into this,
you start to find out really quickly, holy smokes,
birth narratives, I've read that before.
I've read that before, holy smokes.
Again, I always refer to this.
I can't get enough of it
because whoever wrote this material had to be educated,
educated in Greek education, not just someone at home.
They were schooled.
They were schooled and they knew a thing or two
because when you read Suetonius,
Lives of the Caesars, again, I love going to this.
The divine Augustus, that's the first emperor of Rome.
Paragraph 94, and now that we are on this subject,
it would not be irrelevant to add an account
of the events before his birth.
On the very day he was born and subsequently from which
could be drawn the hope and expectation of his greatness
and enduring good fortune.
When in ancient times, part of the wall of Vilitrae
had been touched by lightning,
this was seen as a sign that a citizen of the town
would one day be ruler.
Bolstered by this, the people of Vilitrae
immediately waged war with the Roman people
on many subsequent occasions too,
almost to their own destruction.
Now pause for one second.
Is that historical?
Did that happen?
Maybe, maybe the people of Vilitrae,
however you pronounce the actual name, Vilitrae, Vilitrae,
saw lightning strike a wall and thought,
this is an omen, this means that we're gonna win a war
or something, they pick up their swords
and they go to fight Rome.
And they start getting there, you know what's handed to them.
And it's not looking good.
Almost to their own self-destruction.
So it says that one ruler would come from them, right?
Bolstered by this, the people of Vilitrae
immediately waged war with the Roman people
on many subsequent occasions too,
almost to their own self-destruction.
I don't know if that's historic or not.
Finally, however, it became clear
that this event had been a sign portending,
portence is kind of predicting a prophecy, so to speak,
but it's really like a sign of something to come.
Portending the power of Augustus.
Julius Maranthus records and sounds like he,
whoever Suetonius is, is sourcing Julius Maranthus.
Don't worry, I'll get to your super chats soon too.
Thank you for all the support.
I really appreciate it, it means a lot to me.
But I'm having fun, I love this stuff.
And let's have fun doing this, right?
We like, but I really hope you see what I'm doing here.
Julius Maranthus records that a few months
before Augustus was born, a prodigy was generally observed
at Rome, which announced that nature
was bringing forth a king for the Roman people.
Now remember, kings aren't good to the Senate.
The Senate did not like kings.
There was originally five mythic rulers,
five mythic kings of Rome, they didn't want kings.
The first person that they thought after several centuries
that was gonna try and become king,
which is a little bit hazy and fuzzy
of what was happening was Julius Caesar,
as far as I'm concerned.
And if I don't know, I don't know,
but I do know that they thought he might've tried
to crown himself as king, especially when he's traveling
back into Rome with his soldiers, which was a big no-no.
The Senate, he continues, was most alarmed and agreed
that no child born in that year,
this is referring back to the portents
of Caesar Augustus, right?
No child born in that year should be raised.
So that means if a child is born,
they should not be raised, kill that kid.
Doesn't that sound familiar?
I'm thinking of Matthew, Herod,
the slaughter of the innocent children,
because he thought the portents, the signs, the star,
the omens, the evidence of prophecy supposedly in Matthew
that the son of God or the Messiah has come
as the three wise men, Magi, the sorcerers of the East
come and tell them, hey, where is this Messiah?
Which is kind of silly.
Why would you stop?
You got a GPS star directly taking you to Jesus,
but you stop at Herod's.
Anyway, they stop.
Herod's like, hey, dude, go find these kids.
Go find and kill every kid.
They can't take my throne.
The Senate didn't want kings, why?
Because if the king took over or became king,
the Senate screwed, they lose their power.
So here's a power struggle again.
Herod losing power because a Messiah would become king.
Here, you've got the Senate freaking out,
saying kill all the kids born this year.
Don't let them be reared up, don't let them be raised.
Keeps going.
Says no child in that year should be raised.
However, those whose wives were pregnant
ensured that the decree was not registered in the treasury.
So when they got pregnant, they didn't go tell everybody,
hey, I'm pregnant, my name's Suzy,
and I think I'm having a boy.
No, they were not registering.
They hid it, kind of like Moses,
kind of like these stories of old that we find,
or even in Jesus' story, where they're hiding,
they're trying to hide what's going on.
So they even escaped Egypt.
So then it goes on and says,
however, those whose wives were pregnant
ensured the decree was not registered in the treasury,
since each hoped that the prodigy referred to his own child.
Notice it says his own child, like the father.
I read in the books of Esclopiatis of Mendez,
entitled Theologamina, that Itai, A-T-I-A,
attending the sacred rites of Apollo
in the middle of the night,
had her litter positioned in the temple and fell asleep.
While the other matrons were also sleeping,
all of a sudden, a serpent slid up to her,
then quickly went away.
On waking, she purified herself as she would
after sleeping with her husband,
and at once there appeared on her body
a mark in the image of a snake,
and she was never able to get rid of it.
So that ever afterward,
she avoided going to the public baths.
Augustus was born 10 months later,
and for this reason is believed to be the son of Apollo.
It was Atai, too, who before she gave birth,
dreamed that her insides were carried to the stars
and spread all over the earth and the skies.
Octavius, the father, dreamed that the son
rose from Atia's womb.
On the day of Augustus was born,
when the conspiracy of Catiline was being discussed
in the Senate House,
and Octavius stayed away until late
because his wife was in labor, Pubulus Nigatus,
hearing why he was delayed,
was when informed of the hour of the birth
asserted, as is generally known,
that the master of the world was born.
When Octavius, who was leading an army
through remote regions of Thrace,
sought guidance concerning his son at home,
barbarian rituals in the Grove of Father Lieber,
the same prediction was made by the priest,
for so great a flame had leapt up
when they poured wine on the altar,
that it passed beyond the peak of the temple roof
and right up to the sky,
a portent which had only previously occurred
when Alexander the Great offered sacrifice at that altar.
And on the very next night thereafter,
he dreamed he saw the son,
oh, his son, of greater than mortal size
with a thunderbolt and scepter
and emblems of Jupiter best and greatest
and a radiant crown on a chariot decorated
with laurel drawn by 12 horses of astonishing whiteness.
He goes on to describe how an eagle flies by
and takes the bread out of Augustus' hand, Octavian.
And then when it flies up to eat the bread,
it realized somehow it knows, holy crap,
I just took the king of kings food.
I gotta return this food back to Octavian, the divine,
and he comes back and he hands his food back to Octavian
and flies back off.
Now we know that happened, everybody.
All the things I just read, that's literal historiography
and it's not even as crazy as some of the stuff
we hear in the New Testament.
It at least says something's a dream.
That could be a real dream,
that could be based off real history.
Like some of the things I just read in Suetonius
that seem highly legendary, my friends,
are more plausible if I were to compare them over
to some of the things I'm reading in the gospels.
And on a serious note, scholars don't think
that is what actually happened.
They don't take for a second that this is historiography.
They say this is legend and they're putting a birth narrative
where he is divine, how his birth became,
how he came to be the noble man that he was
and the life of this great man, according to Suetonius.
Sounds familiar.
Sounds like these authors are aware of a trope
and they know how to write great stories about Jesus.
Back to the Jenga Tower and then I'll get to super chats.
At what point, when you pull the block, does the tower fall?
At what point do you go, all right, all right.
Luke, Matthew, the birth narratives, highly legendary.
They're not writing history.
This is not what actually happened.
We don't need that.
By the way, if you do that, you're already going against
some of the creeds about the virgin birth
and stuff that we see later on.
But let's just do it because we're trying to be honest.
We're not trying to fit what men wrote centuries later
to try and stamp political power over this movement
and keep people in line with what they want to be true
or not true.
Okay, birth narratives got it legend.
Ascension.
I'm not gonna get into the argument here.
Ultimately, I would refer you to Richard Miller's book
toward the end here.
And I know that Christian apologist in that one video
that did a response to Dennis McDonald,
mentioned in passing, Stephen Boyce mentioned in passing,
but page 175, you could see there's a chart here
where it lists missing body, prodigies,
darkness over the land,
mountaintop speech, great commission,
ascension, son of a God, meeting on the road,
eyewitness testimony, taken away in the cloud,
dubious alternative accounts,
immortal heavenly body, outside the city of the people flee,
deification, belief homogen rejoicing,
bright and shining appearance, flip the page,
frightened, all in sorrow over loss,
inspired message of apotheosis.
He goes in in parallels and shows you the sources for,
this is the same stuff that happens to Romulus.
So he's wanting to show you the antecedent,
the example, just like we read in Suetonius,
Lives of the Caesars for Octavian,
how they reference just like Alexander the Great.
It occurred only once when Alexander the Great
sacrificed on this altar.
Why are they naming Alexander the Great?
Now, obviously he's a great example that they want to imitate.
In fact, when Julius Caesar defeated the Gauls,
he was able to say not even Alexander the Great
defeated the Gauls, which meant he was able
to stamp his legendary, you better keep me in the hall
of fame, I did something not even Alexander the Great did.
You had to compete.
If you didn't compete, back to my point
about John Dominic Crossen.
Muhammad would have been a nobody if he claimed what he claims
in the seventh century in Arabia, in the first century,
Palestine in the Roman world.
Nobody would have gave two, you know what's about Muhammad
if he existed in the first century,
not playing the same game that the rest
of the Roman Empire was doing.
If you didn't have the same honorific trophy system
in the Hellenistic world, your trophy was dung.
They didn't care about it.
They didn't honor you at all.
The only reason Gentiles found this message
of a Jewish peasant from Palestine or from the Galilee,
even remotely interesting is that it had to imitate
the famous heroes and figures of that period and before.
The legends of their time.
It's like football players today,
if you're into football, I'm not really into it,
but it's like football players today,
imitating or trying to outdo previous scores
of previous football players.
Legends, hall of famers, Emmith Smith,
that's one that I always loved growing up.
He was a running back.
That guy was one of my favorites.
Why?
When he got the touchdown,
he didn't dance and spin into a backflip
and ha ha ha, mocking all that.
He didn't do his dances.
He very calmly, maturely picked the ball up,
walked up to the ref, handed it to him and says,
thanks a lot, ref.
And then went back to his bench.
Very humble, kicked ass, took names.
Chewed bubblegum and kicked ass
had nowhere bubblegum to chew, was just kicking ass.
And he's someone that people today,
if they're running backs, want to compete with.
Michael Jordan, Arnold Schwarzenegger in bodybuilding,
Michael Jordan in basketball, you name it, right?
Whatever the sport is, they're trying to compete.
And if they don't compete, they're nobody.
Simple as that.
All right, have you had enough fun with me
rambling for 52 minutes?
Geez, I have gone on a rant,
please forgive me, thank you for 354 people watching.
Hit the like button so you can also have an apotheosis
upon your slumber, your end of this little mortal life
that we have here on earth.
On a serious note, thank you for everyone who likes
and comments and is engaging in the chat.
Even the ones I disagree with,
I appreciate everybody being here.
Now, scrolling up, I missed a super chat here at the top,
Constellation Pegasus, I used to be mad at you and Neil
for the price to buckle, but not anymore.
Leaving religion changes everything.
And some of those changes don't pop up
until years down the road.
Wow, wow.
Even the XJW community fights breakout.
It's like growing up again.
Well, Constellation, I want to say thank you.
I do not want anyone based on my actions
or whatever I do to judge someone else
even if I don't platform them anymore.
I want to say something real quick.
I think this is important.
This is an important point.
I have learned so much information
from Robert M. Price on biblical studies.
I am indebted to the learning
that I have learned from him in many ways.
However, I didn't agree with him on several points
along the way and you learn and you go.
The guy is an encyclopedia.
And I hope that his family and his loved ones
and he himself lives long and I hope the best for him.
And I just want to say that publicly.
I really do.
Like Julius Caesar before Jesus,
you want to forgive your enemies,
which I don't even see him technically as an enemy.
I feel really bad because I see
that he's kind of a product of his environment, his time
and even his relationship and the way they are.
That's just the way that they are.
So I just thank you for that massive super chat
and I appreciate you sticking around
because I don't want you to feel like that's my goals
to be antagonistic to even Dr. Price.
It's never been my goal.
I still wish things were not this way.
I can't help it.
I can't help that I have to also stand
for what I think is right while he stands
for what he thinks is right and is what it is.
So thank you so much for being conscious of that.
And I appreciate you being patient along the way
and learning because we're all trying
to figure this thing out, we call life.
We don't have the answers or we don't start with our answers
and then work to try and back those answers up.
Like I see I used to do.
Again, I appreciate you always.
You've always come through
and helped support the channel and stuff.
And I know there was moments of tension
after Bob Price and all that.
But I see it also in the XJW community
where there's struggles between things
that have happened with Lloyd Evans and others.
And I'm like, that's exactly what the Jehovah's Witnesses
want actually.
They want that strife
because they wanna be able to get more people to come back.
So you see it and we're all learning, right?
So thank you so much for that.
Sorry for spending a little bit of time on that.
I think it's necessary to kind of say it
because no matter what I say or agree or disagree
with Bob Price, I will always care about him.
I always have and like it or not, that's just who I am.
Scrolling down, I'm hitting your super chats
because you're what keeps me alive.
St. Michael 1976, thank you for becoming a member.
I do put all my videos that I put on Patreon
also on the membership side of YouTube.
So if you become a member,
you not only get like a special emblem and tag
and it tells you how long you've been a member
of MythVision on live streams, you stand out,
but also you get early access to any content that I produce.
So I give any members of my YouTube channel access
and I've just dropped, shoot, let me show you.
So here's the videos I've been doing.
There's two lists because there's two different camera angles,
but you can just count it as one video across.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine,
10, 11, 12 videos with Richard C. Miller.
I've done, I have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
eight, eight more left to edit and put up on the Patreon.
So St. Michael, I hope it's St. Michael,
I'm just saying it because ST,
you'll be seeing those soon, thank you.
Go back further.
Well, you talk about go back further in my conversation
when I was talking about first century BC,
second century BC, you can go all the way back to Genesis,
you can go back to Egypt, you can go back to Sumeria,
you can go back to Proto into European.
They are telling stories,
some of the most amazing stories in the world,
but they're stories.
The person who tries to make them history
in the literal sense through and through
are missing the point.
Missing the point.
Stephanie, Jordan, appreciate your super chat.
D, you and Neil and destroying the Bible
just by showing how advanced it is in Greek classics.
It's Hellenized Judaism.
I like Bible more as an atheist.
Look, I've always loved the Bible.
This is the one I read growing up.
This is the exact Bible that I had in high school
and it helped me get through some tough times.
I'll put it that way.
Read in my Bible as a young kid,
getting saturated into the narrative
where I was there, literally visually living it
and was there, but now that I don't think
all of this is history,
I'm not saying that there's not history there,
I'm not saying that either.
Please don't misinterpret me
because I see that problem on the other spectrum too,
like there's nothing, there's nothing there.
No, no, no, there is.
I'm just saying like these major claims
and miracles and narratives,
they're meant to make you awe.
They're meant to be fantastic to make you awe at it.
You take it literal and then act like this one's what happened
and all the others out there didn't.
You start looking like you're special pleading
because that's what you're doing.
But I love the Bible too
and atheists who love the Bible hurrah,
you know what I mean?
Actually, type one in the chat right now
if you love the Bible as an atheist.
Type two if you hate it
and then type three if you're indifferent.
One, like,
or love, I'm gonna put love.
Two,
hate,
free,
don't care.
There we go.
So we got one,
we got a mixed crowd here, don't we?
So it's interesting for me,
sitting in the seat I'm in, 350 people watching
between Facebook and YouTube,
that there's so many people who fit different categories
and still get something out of what I'm saying.
So I guess like, this is really interesting to me.
And I love this.
I love seeing like there's people who, you know,
love it, hate it, indifferent.
Pretty interesting.
Someone put 42.
All right, scrolling up, scrolling up, scrolling on.
Let me find out where I left off here.
Okay, Stephanie, that's right.
Stephanie, thank you so much, Stephanie, for that.
I'm a one man army today.
I really appreciate you all hanging out with me
and I hope that you're enjoying what I'm saying.
There's so much more that can be said.
Like Odysseus, I love this point about Odysseus
is hiding the God Athena disguises him.
Nobody knows it's him.
His identity is hidden.
The dog smells him and recognizes him and then dies.
The Eurycleia is washing his feet and recognizes who he is,
which when you go to the gospel narrative of Jesus,
the woman who washes his feet and the Pharisees are going,
if he knew what kind of woman this was, like, you know,
you see this in the different synoptic gospel stories,
but like, if he only knew, they'd say in their hearts
or in their heads or whatever.
And Jesus was saying like, this woman gets it,
but she's like anointing him for his death.
And it's like, there's so many interesting parallels
that it isn't identical, but that's the point.
That motif coming from Homer really blows me away.
And I've also been looking at someone
who's been mentioning Buddha is the same way
where they don't know his identity among them.
It makes me wonder if there's a common ancestor tradition
for Buddhism and also what we're finding
in the New Testament to that stemming back to Homer.
I don't know.
Marion Fowler, I can't remember, is this Smith vision?
Thanks, Derek, for an ex-Fundi
that wants to learn everything.
Awesome, man.
Thank you so much, Marion.
I appreciate that.
Smith vision.
Cannabis-infused Torah.
Thank you for the super sticker, my friend.
I really, really appreciate the love and support.
Grays174, have you ever enjoyed reading the Quran?
I'm just trying to finish it at this point, LOL.
Never got into it.
I've tried to get immersed into it
and it doesn't read like a narrative,
like the same way.
There are certain passages you can go through
that are like that, but it wasn't as enjoyable to me.
And I know the excuse might be, I can't read Arabic
or I don't see how poetic in a sense it is.
They probably don't wanna categorize it as poetry,
but it doesn't have the same narrative structure to me.
That's exciting.
So I didn't enjoy it as much,
but I also kind of study it and learn things along the way
from it and listen to academics who talk about it.
I try to find the secular ones
and those who are not apologists, making arguments,
that's what I try to do.
Thank you, Grays.
Good to see you here, by the way.
Michael Apple in the house.
Michael, good to see you.
Been a minute, I haven't seen your name in a minute,
but I'm sure you're out there watching
and enjoying some of the content.
So thank you, Michael.
Appreciate that.
We're getting through the one twos and threes now.
All right.
Harmonic atheist, your camera's out of focus
and you're still 10,000 times sexier than me.
You're a trip.
Am I really out of focus right now?
Let me try to fix that.
Let me see, I'm doing it on film with you.
Okay, you can see the little thing.
I got to reach with my long arms.
Is that better?
I hope you can see me better there.
I hope that's better.
Let me know.
But thank you so much for that 666, my friend.
Really appreciate it.
Go subscribe to Harmonic Atheist.
Tim is trying his best to get the thing off the ground
and he's doing a lot of people who've left the religion,
whatever the cult might be, the religion they've left
and it's really healing to hear some of the stories
that he's doing.
So I hope that everybody goes subscribe
to his YouTube channel.
Thank you again.
Hope I'm coming through clearer now.
Mark the rational.
Your channel just keeps getting better and better.
Closing in on 100K subs.
That's a fact, man.
We're getting better and better.
It's like fine wine, right?
We've just started, Mark.
That's how I'm looking at it.
We just began and it's only going to get better.
We're gonna continue educating,
bringing as much public education as we can.
And I hope that we hit 100K in the next week or two.
That's my hope.
I'd love to make that happen.
I'm also not dying on the hill of needing to hit
a certain quota or certain amount of subscribers.
That's cool.
I'm gonna build Rome and it's one block at a time, right?
So it's just the quality of the people who view
and subscribe and watch.
This is a very strong audience.
We have one of the strongest I've ever seen audiences
and I have been watching other YouTube channels,
really big ones.
I mean, we're talking half a million subs,
and the kind of interaction and communication and community,
they have good communities,
just we got like a really strong one.
And I think that goes, that's more than numbers.
The quality of you viewers versus just the quantity.
I'd rather have less viewers who are serious,
who are actually into this material,
who love what we're doing than having hundreds
of thousands of people who watch just to get clicks.
I'm not into that.
I'm more into the quality,
because I want this to be something that lasts a long time.
We're building something here, an empire.
We're changing the game.
So Mark, thank you for contributing financially
and for the 100K, you know, portent, the prophecy.
And when we hit 100K, remember,
Mark the rational is a profit.
He literally is calling it, right?
He's saying, we're closing in on 100K.
If it happens, then it's fulfilled,
which would then mean he's a profit.
We got a profit on our hands right here in the audience
and your eye witnesses to it.
Kent Hoven's CPA, I read that the ancient Greek
for Yahweh, Mohamis, I'm not so sure.
I might be butchering the pronunciation there.
I'm not so sure.
What I recently came across,
and I'm sorry if I'm derelling from this,
but how the Greek and the Romans literally,
well, Greek, Romans and Jews,
the Hellenism of the Jewish people,
would call God, Jovay, Zeus.
So Yahweh, Zeus, and there were interchangeable names.
In fact, the Maccabean Revolt,
the whole reason this revolt took place or is happening,
Richard Miller brought this up in my conversation recently.
And please don't critique me too much
for always bringing up scholars
that I've indulged myself with.
If I've been reading an academic,
I try to exhaust their work
and try to present it to the world.
So you'll hear me constantly reference them
because I've recently been reading
and diving into the material.
But he points out that the Maccabean Revolt
in his book here, In Just Passing,
but he also has exhausted this in conversation with me,
they were trying to build and make the Jerusalem Temple
a temple of Zeus.
So you have like, they're full on trying to collaborate
with the Greek and Roman world,
really the Greek world at the time,
but they're trying to collaborate with them
and not fight against it.
The Maccabees, of course, fight against that.
So I don't know about the word Mahomes, Mahomes,
I'm not sure, but I appreciate the super chat.
Thank you so much, thank you so much.
Hallelujah.
What's up, Max? Hey, hey, hey.
Okay, and Ryan, I gotta interview you, by the way.
We gotta get your story.
We gotta get your story and we're going to.
We're going to, I got a lot of ex cult members
that I need to interview, by the way.
Oh, hold on, Black Angel real fast.
Anthony Flew, whereas markets can be found
for books on reading the Bible as literature,
to read the Quran is a penance rather than a pleasure.
Oh, I can dig it, I can dig it,
especially when you're trying to like get sucked
into the narrative, not like just be reading
little things at a time, like little excerpts,
little pericope, it's hard to get into.
Constellation is back.
How about a poll asking if people knew
Mark 16, 9 through 20 are forgeries.
I don't recall any pastors or elders
telling people in church or a kingdom hall.
You know what?
You threw the 50 out, but let me see
if it'll allow me to do a second poll.
All right, have you voted real quick?
There's 407 votes, there's more, there's 410 votes.
Have you hit the like button?
Hit the like button right now,
please let me refresh this real fast.
Okay, I'm gonna stop this poll in just a second.
I hope you hit the like button and we're ending poll now.
Let's see what the statistics are.
Have you hit that like button?
I said 54% of you said yes, 25% of you said no.
Good reminder on it now with 20%, we have 410 votes.
Thank you for voting.
Let's see if we can add another poll.
Okay, did you know that Mark really ended,
let's just put it that way, at Mark 16, 8.
Yes or no, that's community.
Here we go.
We'll let them vote for the next few minutes constellation.
I'll get through these super chats.
Remind me if you will to stop the poll
because you know I get a little bit distracted
with some of these conversations.
Wayne Rossi, it's easy to go too far with parallels.
I appreciate some of these ideas
but I'd also like to see more discussion
that takes a hard look at them.
So I'm fairly certain we're gonna have that.
I've got Ian Mills who doesn't draw the conclusions
on Mark that Dennis McDonald does
and he says he'll explain why.
I personally, I don't think there'd be a way to falsify
that they're not drawing parallels from it
which is another thing that people are like,
well if it's not falsifiable then what is it?
When you have clear antecedents of a messiah
who's hidden identity, he's headed home so to speak
in Odysseus with heading home to Ithaca
and there's so many common traits
like the weird demoniac where the demons named legion
which are soldiers cast into pigs and such.
There are no antecedents that make better sense than this
and the historical argument doesn't make sense at all.
I think that we're really doing ourselves to disservice
by not actually going and trying
to look for parallels for that,
especially when the antecedents are clearly
really good antecedents.
Now some of the parallels I admit,
maybe we're looking at a mirage,
maybe we're thinking there's something to some of it
and there isn't but the fact is,
Wayne, I have to fight against this
and I'll tell you why, I wanna take hard looks too
and I think you would agree with me
but I wanna fight against this whole reluctance
on parallels period.
For so long, people have been viewing these gospels
as just histories in terms of scholarship
like at the past few centuries,
people are trying to argue these as scholarship
unless you look at David Friedrich Strauss
or someone who's trying to look at them as mythographies
or they're legends or they're not literal histories.
Most of these scholars we're engaging are trying to find out
this is what really happened, this is real history
and there's been so much ignoring of Dennis McDonald's work
that has gone in academia that I feel it's almost my duty
to really highlight what has been ignored for decades
and it hasn't been highlighted.
It's almost like they found a few scholars
who've made critiques of what they think
about Dennis's work.
Everyone else has remained silent.
It's the same argument almost like
when Bart Ehrman says something,
like I've interviewed Bart Ehrman
and I've said, hey Bart,
do you date Luke Axe to the second century?
Like, Richard Perbo did who wrote the commentary on Axe,
the Hermione commentary or like Steve Mason
who literally made the argument showing that Luke Axe
or Axe is specifically using Josephus in his narrative.
And he said, well, I'm not convinced of it.
And so I still stick with the 80s, 85s.
And I'm like, he goes, but you're in good scholarship.
So like, you know, I don't knock it, you know, I get it.
He also is the same person who like disregards Dennis's
all Greek stuff and doesn't buy it.
The way that Dr. Miller again, bringing up Richard Miller
argues, he says, they call it argumentum ad bartum.
Bart says it, I believe it, enough said.
That's almost what happens all too often
when someone reads, I found two, three scholars,
critical scholars who do not accept the Greek
antecedent arguments in the Gospels or the New Testament.
And I have several scholars that are also in the vein
of Dennis McDonald, Richard C. Miller, Robin Faith Walsh,
Michael Koshinosh, and David Lytla
who doesn't take the literary genealogical approach.
Lytla still says it's cultural.
He's not denying that they're borrowing
from the Greek world.
He just doesn't want to say it's literary.
He wants to say it's infused in the culture around them.
And yes, they're lifting Homer.
They're lifting Euripides.
But he admits it's still mimesis.
It's still using the cultural stuff.
So several of these scholars say it's happening.
Several of these scholars want to say it's not happening,
but there's little sprinkles here and there.
And I'm going, why are people just running straight up
to the critics and not actually engaging the work?
And when I asked Dennis, when I asked Richard Miller,
when I asked several scholars, Richard Carrier,
even he's part of this, he's been convinced by it.
But several academics, when I asked him like,
why do you think they're not buying this?
And Dennis says, they're not trained in this.
They're literally not trained
to evaluate this material this way.
They're not.
They're looking for Jewish antecedents only.
That's what they're mainly focused on.
And even Dale Allison Jr.
when I asked him this a year and a half ago
when I visited him at Princeton,
and I asked him, do you think Dennis McDonald could be right?
He goes, I've never read Dennis McDonald's work,
but I've been reading Greek since 1976
or something, he said.
And I said, but do you think he could be right?
He goes, he could be.
I've never read him.
But then he threw up this thing
against parallels real quick.
Well, you can make parallels out of anything.
And this is exactly what the apologists
are trying to claim Dennis is doing.
But you really have to take Dennis serious
when he talks about the education in the ancient world,
the Greek world, and how they had to learn this stuff.
To be in Greek education, you learned Homer,
even though that was a different kind of Greek.
That Greek, which was more archaic, was what they learned
to learn the Greek that they were learning, the coinet
and the writing, the literature that they were writing.
And this is something Dennis has written much on.
So yes and no.
Some of Dennis's parallels,
I don't know if they're true or not.
So I go, eh, it could be, couldn't.
But I've seen enough of the camel's head peak
under the tent that I know there's a camel there.
It's just how much of the camel are we putting
under the tent?
And I think there's more that we're not looking for.
That's why when we already are being cautious
and saying I don't wanna take these parallels too far,
I wanna stop now.
I wanna, like, I'm not interested
in taking these parallels any further.
I say go as far as we can and then work backwards
because we're not actually giving it a chance
if we're not actually investigating it
from what is being proposed by these various scholars.
Even Robin Walsh, who's literally a teaching professor
at Miami University is saying she's convinced,
not only is Mark aware of Virgil's Aeneid,
which would be a closer antecedent.
She thinks Mark knows Latin.
She's writing an article on this,
but also is aware of Homer's Iliad in the Odyssey.
She just really wants to die on the Virgil's Aeneid.
I think it's important.
And I hope, Wayne, that you travel with me on this
and you're willing to go with me,
even if you aren't convinced of all of it,
just bear with me here because you don't have to be.
It's still worth evaluating this material
and considering what's being said
and the arguments brought forth.
I think Dennis said it this way.
I hope I'm like the Charles Darwin,
of this kind of argumentation.
Charles Darwin wasn't right about everything.
He was wrong about several things,
but he pioneered an idea
that he hopes more smarter, brighter descendants
who come after perfect and tweak and work it out
where they can actually see it.
But we know he's documented ancient Christian authors
who rewrite gospel narratives in Greek prose
using Homer in the Chintones.
So he documents this in this big old tomb of his
that I hope people get.
And if you don't have the book, can't get it,
you can't take the course
because we actually have the book show up on the screen.
We go through the examples and stuff.
So Wayne, I had to spend the time there
because I respect you and I've seen you on Facebook too.
And I know that you know,
like I'm not just trying to pull crap out of my butt here,
but I do think it's easy to go too far with parallels.
But sometimes I think they're really,
I'd say most of the time there's a phobia of doing parallels
because we can find them in anything.
And I think there's good methodology that we need to use
and try and approach finding out where those parallels are
and why they make good sense.
There you have it.
Ted talk over, Wayne, love you man.
Thank you for being here.
Even if you disagree with scholars I might have on,
I really do appreciate you checking it out.
Ricky Johnson in the house, Ricky man.
How are you doing, brother?
Hope you're doing good.
Thank you for the super sticker.
Shout out to you, man.
Constellation Pegasus again.
How about a poll asking people if they were told in church
or a kingdom hall, Mark 16, excuse me, big burp.
That came out of nowhere.
That was a demon.
Did you see the demon?
I saw it run off as soon as it came out.
That was rude, 345 people I burped in front of.
Constellation, you already super chatted that
and are you trying to tell me I need to check the poll now?
Have you voted everybody?
There's 135 votes I'm seeing right now, 136.
It was a gen, someone said.
I'm glad someone knows their demonology in this place
because I don't know what that was.
It just came out of nowhere.
Couldn't control it.
Constellation, are you telling me I need to pull
the plug on the poll and go ahead
and see how many people voted?
Let me know, man.
I'll pull it.
That reminded me, I'm so getting down into TMI,
too much information.
But you're reminded the first time that you pass gas
in front of your loved one or burp around them and stuff
and you're all shamed, like you finally get older
and you're just like, why was I so, I don't know,
trying to hide being human?
I understand there's manners too.
It's not like I'm purposely trying to do that.
But anyway, I don't know why I reminded me of that.
Constellation, what's the deal, man?
Am I pulling the plug?
I'm waiting on you, my friend.
You're over here throwing money at me, man.
I can't ignore you just yet.
You gotta tell me, are we checking it?
You said I messed up.
Let me know, let me know, man.
All right, I'm gonna keep moving forward
because I don't see you here.
I'm gonna try to give people a chance to vote.
This is my sign, vote.
Margaret DeVeldin, I came in late but glad to listen in
and we'll go back to here from the beginning.
Lovin' Dr. Miller.
Yeah, I'm in love with Dr. Miller too.
I'm not gonna lie.
His stuff is serious juju here.
If you have not read this book,
I know it's a kick in the butt.
It's Rutledge publication.
They charge like 50 bucks for the book.
And I saw someone comment and go,
he's just in it for the money, for the book.
First of all, Dr. Miller is well off
and he works a completely different career.
He doesn't even work in biblical scholarship anymore.
Like he's nothing to do with any income.
It's a academic press.
What I'm saying is he makes pennies on the cells, literally.
Like they might cut him a check at the end of the year
and he makes like 50 bucks
for selling like a thousand copies or something.
If that, he's lucky.
So just figure I'd answer that.
But man, Miller's blowing my mind with some of this stuff.
And he's wrote articles too.
A lot of it's found its way in his book.
He's written articles on the martyrology of Mark and Luke.
Jesus's death was not even a sacrifice.
Like we think of atonement theologies today
of various replacement atonement theology type things
where Jesus died four hour sins and all of that.
And it's more akin to what we see
with the Maccabees dying for the nation and stuff.
So this idea of martyrdom
that we find in early Christianity,
it makes a lot of sense what he's arguing.
I'll just put it that way.
And if you haven't read his book, he really should.
It's a game changer, serious game changer.
Can't brag on him enough.
Gotta check him out.
Saint Michael is back with the super sticker.
Saint Michael, you're so saint.
It's not even funny.
You had nothing to say?
I appreciate the sticker again.
Derek Cruz, love you, man.
Keep up the good work.
Derek, look, we gotta keep that name going, right?
Really appreciate the super chat and the support.
Trickzord, Mahomes, the QB Go KC.
What's that?
The KC is the football team, right?
Left two years ago at 35 was so funny.
Once I found it wasn't 100% historically true.
Just thought, then what are we even doing?
A lot of people kind of come to those,
aha, and they're like, all right, I'm leaving for good.
I'm done.
I've been duped.
This is not literal history of what happened.
I felt that way for a while, but I wanted to know more.
I kept going.
I actually fell in love with the myths.
I fell in love with the stories.
I fell in love with the way that people did this.
And I think that these texts are oftentimes abused
by apologists.
So people, as you voted earlier,
people hate it or hate the Bible.
And I can't blame a lot of people for that
because look at what people have done with it, right?
They've justified so many horrible things in history
using the Bible.
And then some would justify or they say,
the Bible is what made me do good things or whatever.
I think people are just good people.
So that's why you can have a very evil, hateful person
who lines up with things they find in the Bible.
In fact, one interesting thing before I move forward,
don't think I forgot about you, Constellation.
I'm gonna see if you message to tell me to pull the plug.
I was watching this Ku Klux Klan member
tell their testimony on soft white underbelly
and holy smokes.
It was just shocking to hear this kind of information.
He's a guy down in the South in America.
He gets approached in a Walmart with a pamphlet
by another white guy who's just like,
hey man, come out to our cookout.
We'd love to have you there, blah, blah, blah.
He ends up going that Saturday or Sunday.
I can't remember what day it was.
He goes and it's a clan rally, a Ku Klux Klan rally.
He's sitting, listening to the preacher
at this cookout hangout.
And the preacher's preaching from places in the Bible
that he has never heard a preacher preach from.
And this preacher says,
they aren't gonna tell you this in church.
Let me teach you from the word of God.
And he turns to Ezra and Nehemiah,
certain prophets and points out how God restricts you
from where they think they're Israel, right?
Cause the church replaces Israel.
So they think that they are the children of God,
children of Abraham, children of Israel.
And it's do not mix your seed.
Do not marry these strange women
and going to them cause they have false gods and such.
But also mixing seed with different nations and tribes.
And they teach this and the guy goes,
I have never heard this at my Baptist church.
I never heard this at any of these.
This is God's word.
Let God be true in every man a liar.
So he took that message, walked away saying,
my white race, I need to stay with the white people
and stick with my kind.
Cause God said, and that's one of their founding,
their founding creeds, so to speak,
in the Ku Klux Klan is they found a place in the Bible
that they have taken it to mean
that they need to stay with their own kind.
Because the Israelites who were in captivity in Babylon
or were in captivity, do not need to mingle and mix
or they were in Persia or wherever they were at at the time.
Do not interbreed with other tribes
and marry with other people.
This is probably something that was preached
when blacks and whites in America intermarried and such
and that was big taboo for a long time.
You could see how it could be used
to do really, really bad backwards things.
And of course, this is a context,
you wanna get back into the historical context
of when this stuff was written.
They weren't the only people doing this.
So for people who wanna slam Jewish people for that,
no, they weren't the only people.
The Athenians in the Greek world,
they were xenophobic as crap.
They were the chosen ones, descendants of the gods.
They were the best and everyone else was beneath them.
They were the chosen, so to speak.
So it wasn't just Jews that had this kind of literature
and that were saying similar things.
Anyway, there you have it.
I don't know why I went on that tangent.
Grace 174, have you ever given credence to universalism?
I didn't, while a Christian, no.
I was like a big time predestinarian,
believed that it was all predetermined
and found the reformed Calvinistic approach
to make most sense.
But I understand why some would see
in the end Christ will be all in all and like,
but I would try to minimize all in all
to be all of those who are in Christ, he will be in.
Like you find some way to like rationalize and explain
from that limited a point of view
rather than the universal one.
So I never really gave it any credence
and never accepted it as a believer.
Even as a non-believer today, I don't think that that's what,
I don't think there's a systematic theology for the Bible.
That's the problem.
We have all these systematic theologies.
I do not think that the Bible was written
with a systematic theology in mind at all.
Diverse authors, diverse theologies, different opinions,
different views, all sorts of differences.
And so that's why I don't give any credence
to really any of those theologies anymore
other than what is found within that particular literature
and what seems to be conveyed by that particular author.
Sometimes that author may have interpolations or something
and I don't know what is and what isn't sometimes,
but you never know.
They might be inserting stuff there purposefully
to make that author say stuff that wasn't already saying,
contradicting the original author.
Who knows?
Koval 77 with a five.
Koval, did you drop me a comment?
I don't see.
Someone said Jesus was a Muslim.
Hold on, where was that at?
Someone said, dude, you're getting hell of bread right now.
Well, I appreciate the bread.
Man should not live by bread alone, though.
Where's Jesus?
Jesus is not a Muslim, Moshe said.
Someone said Jesus is a Muslim.
That, listen, the reason that they're saying this, right,
is because this is what they're taught.
Seven centuries later,
they have the correct understanding of who Jesus was
and of course we should ignore contemporaneous data.
But even then, when you look at the contemporaneous stuff,
we just, we don't really know.
We don't really have any absolute confidence
in what Jesus did, who he really was.
At the end of the day, we have hunches,
but we can't be overly confident.
That's my thoughts.
Wayne is here.
Okay, Wayne, glad you commented again.
I tend to like Litwitz's approach on this.
I think his principles are good.
I think we've lost far too much literature
to say X is the antecedent of Y.
That could be.
I tend to think Litwitz was on a good track,
but I definitely think there's much more literary
borrowing taking place than just purely
environmental or in the air.
Even Dennis says Litwitz's right that it's in the air,
but there's a critique of Litwitz and his approach
at the beginning of his synopses of epic tragedy
in the Gospels.
He actually mimics his criticism and its critics.
Page 10.
Oh, he goes in hard on all sorts of methodological assaults.
Okay, so Kuhn notes that when scientific anomalies
accumulate and thus cannot be dismissed
and isolated exceptions,
these defenders trivialize their value
as we have seen some interpreters reject parallels
with Greek poetry from the outset denial
and thus justify occulting them suppression.
Others acknowledge them,
but view them as culturally generic Litwitz
and not textually genetic
a combination to existing heuristic conventions.
Others concede that direct literary imitations
are theoretically possible,
but argue against criteria for detecting them
methodological assaults.
And others may grant occasional imitations,
but dismiss them as trivial marginalization,
stated otherwise literary parallels
between Greek poetry and the Gospels do not exist.
Since they do not exist,
one may ignore and silence those who say they do.
Even if they do exist,
they are not mimetically intertextual,
but dynamically intercultural.
Even if they were intertextually mimetic,
no criteria can demonstrate it.
Even if one word approved that some are mimetic,
they are insignificant blips on the radar.
Whew, the matrix survives largely unscathed.
So he's already combating his opponents.
My response to such skeptics
follows an alternative chain of reasoning.
No literature was more influential among Greek speakers
in the early Roman Empire than the Iliad and the Odyssey.
This undeniably was the case.
Mimesis dominated literary education and production
and no targets were more popular
and culturally contested than the Homeric epics.
This too is undeniable.
The Gospels and Acts are populated by analogs
to Homeric characters and episodes
that are so dense, distinctive and interpretable
that they must not be ignored.
One way of accounting for them is to apply criteria
to determine if such similarities
issued from literary imitation, many of them,
but not all do.
So he goes into actually Litwa
and he takes on Litwa in one of these pages.
Anyway, I'm glad you commented,
but that's actually the point of why he admits,
like, sure, there's cultural heuristic approaches
and the influence of the culture,
just like we're influenced by McDonald commercials
or whatever goes on.
We drive down and we see commercials all the time
or things that are going on.
The culture impacts us.
That is not being questioned.
It's that he cuts it off at that
and doesn't go to any literary genetic borrowing
and that is where Dennis wants to take him to task on it
and says, no, no, there's much more going on
than just cultural and a lot of these antecedents,
I think, are really highlighting in the literature.
One can argue that they don't think they're convincing
in some cases.
Some of them, I just don't know how we don't see it.
That's what I'm getting at.
Anyway, Coval 77, again, thank you for the super sticker.
Appreciate you, Wayne, for speaking up
and giving your two cents.
I just think there's a lot more going on
than just the cultural.
Someone says, please, don't block me.
I speak the truth.
God's love for you is real!
With a flame next to it.
His love?
Margaret DeVeldin, we need to listen better
to Dennis McDonald.
I'm so interested in his work.
Me too.
It's kind of saddened me the way he's been treated
for a long time in academia.
So.
Oh, man.
His image.
His image.
What in the world?
Just a dude.
I'd like to see some discussion about Orion
as Papsicle Gilgamesh between the Masu twins
and Taurus and other Semitic heroes
with respect to the way of Eyre
as Haley's comments reoccurring path.
That would be something John McHugh
might know something like that.
Where did I put my phone at?
I'm so going in that I don't even know where my phone is.
John McHugh, let me write that down
because I might try to see if he's got something there
because he's big into the whole ancient Sumerian stuff.
John McHugh.
Okay.
Thank you, Justin dude.
I'd be interested in hearing that too.
And I know that they were big
into the celestial stuff back then.
It's good.
Shocked at the pole though.
Shocked at the pole.
All right.
Here we go.
About to refresh this Joker
because I'm at you now constellation.
Ending pole with 216 votes.
And what do we have?
Did you know that Mark really ended at Mark 16, 8?
56% said yes.
43% said no.
Huh.
Huh.
You know what?
You've been super chatting that point for a long time now.
And the fact that that many people didn't know
that Mark 16, 8 is where Mark ended is very interesting.
Wouldn't you say constellation?
I think so.
Thank you again for that super chat.
Wayne A, keep up the work, Derek.
I've been deconstructing
from fundamentalist evangelical Christianity for nine years
and I have learned so much.
Keep going.
I'm gonna keep going my friend.
I'm not giving up.
I think there's a lot more.
I mean, I think I'm going through a phase as well, right?
Where I engage apologetics at some point
will probably be way past that engagement
and be focusing purely on the data of things.
I try to do both, but I think it's relevant
when you have kind of a cultural ideological war
that is going on and I don't mean it in weaponry, literally.
I mean, a battle of minds that's taking place.
I can't help it.
I gotta kind of do what I gotta do, you know?
Thank you so much for that super chat.
Appreciate that.
M.G. Bilby, lots more mimetic work has
and is being done that isn't being discussed.
Courtney Frazin has published much on Dionysus imitations
and Leferu and I have published on,
can you email me this?
I would love to talk to you
and I'm gonna write down Courtney Frazin.
By the way, while we're on this little side note,
I emailed James Tore.
How many of you saw that wildfire of a debate
between Dr. James Tore from the Discovery Institute,
who's the chemist who says the abogenesis can't happen
and then Dave Farina, Professor Dave,
that debate was, whoa, I had to watch it in like pieces
because I couldn't tolerate listening to the constant
that went on back and forth, but I got through it finally.
I emailed him because I saw that he did an interview
on Shaw McDowell's channel and he said something about,
you know, my resurrection story of Jesus resurrection
convinces like 80% of skeptics to convert
that same hour and stuff.
So I was like, look, let's have a talk, let's dialogue.
You can come on and share with me your thoughts
and I can tell you my problems
and like what I think is going on and all.
He denied it.
He said, no, I said that I would come on
and if you give me an hour to just tell my story pretty much.
Like I could show you my email.
I was really disappointed by it
because I was like, come on, man.
Let me pull it up.
I think it's worth showing you all.
If you're okay with that.
Here we go.
Maybe this will work.
Let me see.
Bear with me.
Coming back.
Anyway, yeah.
So I said, good afternoon, Dr. Tor.
My name is Derek Lambert.
I was once a devout Christian who proclaimed the deity
in resurrection of Jesus.
Studied from countless scholars in this field
and I saw your invitation at Dr. Shaw McDowell's
YouTube channel to have any skeptic email you
for an interview about the resurrection of Jesus.
You recorded this on May 16th, 2023.
I'm reaching out because I would like
to have that discussion.
Would it be fair to be able to go back and forth
during our conversation?
Please let me know a date that works for you, sir, Derek.
He writes back.
Dear Derek, that was not the invitation,
the invitation for those wishing to hear
about why I believe.
I have not the time for all that desire a dialogue.
I am sorry.
If you seek to hear why I believe,
let me know and we will schedule.
So he's like only wanting to talk about why he believes,
like just give him a platform and let him just rant
on why he believes.
There are plenty of Christian channels
that have been doing that already with him.
I don't have an interest in letting someone just talk
and not dialogue with them,
especially if I think that their position is wrong.
Anyway, thank you so much.
Please email me, MythFish podcast.
I'm putting it in the chat here.
I'm going to put it in the description as well,
but I'd be happy to learn more
because I love this imitation stuff.
I think that the Greek literature,
even the Roman literature,
I mean, they're doing it all over the place.
Baron, thank you so much for that super chat.
Good to see you here, by the way.
And Saint Michael again with another super.
Thank you so much for that.
Appreciate that, my friend.
The FreedThinker podcast.
If you haven't subscribed, please do.
Please do.
Go check out the FreedThinker's YouTube channel.
Did you drop me a comment, FreedThinker?
Did you just, oh yes, yes you did.
Okay, we can think the Christian worldview is wrong
and still love the human experience and religious insights.
Just like we can be fascinated and see the humanness
of Native American mythology and Proverbs.
Facts.
Spit facts here.
This is the point I think we're getting to somewhere
that we can find common ground.
Because I watch fiction, watch fiction.
We went and watched Guardians of the Galaxies.
Who has watched Guardians of the Galaxies in the chat?
I'm curious.
I'm gonna go see.
I'm gonna go right now.
I'm going down there to see
who has seen the new Guardians of the Galaxies movie.
Please tell me you've seen it.
If you haven't seen it,
have you seen any Guardians of the Galaxies movies?
Christopher Johnson says they saw it.
I'm sure there's others.
Only the first one guitar dog says.
Gollum says, yeah, I saw it.
I did Lord Roku.
Not yet.
Number three, Osiris Reborn says not yet.
Margaret de Veldens, Sonny says no, never heard of it.
Okay, well, it's a fun fictive movie.
It's mythology.
It's taking place in kind of a outer space.
It's really cool,
but there's so many interesting valuable life lessons
I learn from watching that movie.
Now, I know that that takes place
wholly in a fictive plane,
but that's what legend is.
That's what myth is.
It's fiction yet relatable in many ways
to the aspects of the human experience.
And I think that these ancient myths
were their way of kind of conveying their proverbs,
their lessons to humanity
at the time from their observations,
whether it be wisdom, a human experience.
Hey, do nice to others so that nice is done to you.
We should have these rules.
And I think that this is what they're trying to do.
And I'm learning a lot from all of these fictive narratives
as if I need it to be really literally true.
No, I don't need that to be literally true.
And the same goes for people who die
and we wanna say are alive after they're dead.
It wasn't just Jesus that was translated
and had an ascension narrative
and that was alive forever more after death.
This narrative is something we find
in the fabric of the legends of the day, literally.
Same thing with the Caesar's, sons of Zeus, et cetera.
They also lived on.
And there's other versions of this kind of stuff.
You go further back, you find it in agricultural mythology,
nature, cyclical, repetitive, all that cool stuff.
I think me and the freed thinker
have a lot in common here in terms of as non-believers
trying to find value in that world of mythology
but also deconstruct the harm
of the literalist fundamentalism we find in the world.
We're trying to find common ground.
I am at least and I think you are as well.
So thank you for the super chat, my friend
and hitting something important, I think.
They're not idiots.
I think that taking this stuff literal is missing the point
and then you can kind of say, that's the dumb part
but it's more about the message.
It's more about conveying and understanding
what is meant by this literature.
And this is why I keep referring Richard C. Miller's work.
Check him out.
He sees this as a trophy system.
You reward the noble man, the noble philosopher, the king
with great birth narratives and after they die
they appear to give a great message to convey
a great commission like Romulus told Proculus Julius
to go and tell my Rome to wage in the war
that where you were taught
but also that you will be the ruler of the world.
This nation will be the ruler of the world.
And guess what?
It came true.
Rome did rule the world.
Does that mean Romulus is really curinus?
A deity?
No.
But this is what we have narratives.
We have stories.
Juan, thank you for the super chat.
Bro, my fiancee basically broke up with me
because I told her the Bible is not literal history.
Laugh out loud.
Bro, I hope, I don't know what to say to that.
I don't know what to say.
That happens a lot in relationships.
So there's a lot of marriages that don't work
because people have different beliefs
and eventually they don't see eye to eye.
Did I skip anybody, by the way?
I think I did.
Oh, Steven Bragg, I skipped you.
I'm sorry.
Thank you for that super sticker, Steven.
Really appreciate that.
But you're laughing.
So as long as you're okay with it, I'm okay with it.
So everybody laugh with Juan and have a joke, laugh with him.
But that's pretty crazy.
Like unless she's coming from fundamentalism
which makes sense.
You gotta stick with your own kind, right?
Doc Pluromina, as Alice Copper,
I think you mean Cooper, I could be wrong,
says schools out for summer,
psyched to sign up for all these courses,
keep up the Yale man's work.
Doc, I got two courses coming up with Robin Faith Walsh
and two courses coming up with Karakuni, the Egyptologist.
We went into the creation mythologies of ancient Egypt
and then we went into resurrection,
post death, burial, the whole nine in ancient Egypt
and their mythology surrounding it.
And let me just put it this way.
The Egyptians had a hard on for hard ons.
Very sexual mythology, very, very sexual.
Next time you look at an obelisk,
just remember that's portrayal of a penis.
If I walked away with one thing, recording those courses,
they are sexual in their mythology, like it's big time.
And I mean, the ancient Near Eastern mythology
did the same thing, but it's all over the place.
Creation myth, God ejaculates and creates,
just watch those courses when they come out, Doc.
They're a lot of fun, I promise you that.
Thank you for that super chat.
Good to see you here, by the way.
I'm glad you didn't hurt my head too much
with your question there, Doc, you always blow me away.
Scrolling down.
Coval, there's a fundamental inflammatory
collective mindset amongst or among world view,
worldwide enemies, sorry.
That is basically prideful conflict,
no good to progress toward forward together.
Let me reread that.
I'm like my brain went into a brain fart there.
There is a fundamental inflammatory collective mindset
among worldwide enemies that is basically prideful conflict,
no good to progress forward together.
Coval, that's a lot, that was a mouthful.
And I think that if I were to walk away
with what you said there and try to give my two cents,
is that it's very difficult to move forward
when your ideologies or your policies or whatever
are in such major conflict.
That's the hard part that I think everybody
who wishes we lived in a utopia sees,
I don't see how that's gonna happen.
I don't know how we're ever gonna get to a place
where we all just see and agree.
Sometimes I'll hear a song and that song
will hit me just right and it's got all the right feels,
it's got the right message,
it's got such a big picture for humanity.
And yet I just wish all humans felt and saw that song
and wanted to unite under that.
But it's like you kind of wake up and snap out of it, go,
man, not everybody even likes this song.
Look on YouTube, how many people disliked that song?
Thousands of people disliked that amazing song
that you liked, Derek, can't even get basic opinions
on what song is good or not amongst humans.
Hard for me to be a little bit pessimistic
on us ever uniting and agreeing,
but that doesn't mean we should give up
or not stop trying to do better and progressing.
So that's my little takeaway of it.
Thank you, Koval, thank you.
Christian unpronounceable,
I am really enjoying my very first chat here.
Thank you, I'm glad you're enjoying it.
I hope you're feeling welcome and not too judged, my friend.
Thank you.
Scrolling down, scrolling down here.
Let me just try to catch up because I'm afraid,
are we way behind?
Just to do it again, consider that some call Orion's belt
the three wise men, the Jews call Orion full.
Haley's comment frequently appears in and around Orion,
the SLM of Jacob, a comment.
Hmm, so you're saying there's astrothiology,
you're trying to say that in the narrative,
they have an astrological message
that they're trying to convey.
It wouldn't shock me.
It really wouldn't shock me.
And I know that John McHugh actually tries to argue
that Jesus walking on water
may have some celestial significance.
I don't know, I'm not convinced per se on that,
but I definitely think there's some astrothiology stuff
happening in the Bible.
So I would love to get him to come on
and talk about that three wise men.
Love to see the source where that's actually at though too,
that would help me.
Just a dude, thank you.
Hard work.
Would Richard C. Miller be up for providing us
what he has pointed out is rarely sought after
by New Testament scholars,
namely an MVP Greek and Roman Classics Education?
Would he be up for providing us what he has pointed out
is rarely sought after by New Testament scholars?
You know what, I don't know.
I've been trying to do a course with him
and we're planning on maybe putting a course together
where he can really break down the sources
and explain thoroughly through video format,
not just through his publication, his whole case
and what he's saying about everything
from what the Gospels are doing,
what kind of genre these are,
what is going on with this resurrection motif,
ascension stuff, birth narratives, et cetera.
I would love to have him put a course together
and bring it from a Classics perspective.
And have you read the book, Hard Work?
I'm curious to know if you've read it
because he takes the classicist
at the very beginning of his book,
Near Justin's Confession,
maybe it's right after that, Zeus's Other Sons.
He pretty much highlights how classicists
have actually not wanted to tread
anywhere near New Testament studies.
And they literally draw a line and won't go there
because they don't want to enter into the mess that we have.
He goes into that in the book.
I'm trying, I'm trying.
Thank you for the super chat, my friend.
Really appreciate that.
Scrollin', scrollin' down.
Lisa with the super sticker, the 999.
Lisa, thank you so much.
Really appreciate that support.
Did you have any comment for that sticker?
I don't see one.
Thank you so much for that super sticker.
I really appreciate it.
I like to make sure I don't miss you.
Sometimes people will drop a super sticker
and then a comment or super chat and then comment after.
I wanna make sure I didn't miss you.
All right, let me scroll down here.
All right, we're caught up on supers.
Sweet.
Cool, okay.
Oh, wow, StreamYard has an auto super chat section
so I can actually see that way I don't miss anyone.
All right, my point in this whole episode,
we're almost two hours in.
Early on is you've got all this literature before
and after doing mythology, legend, stories,
the writing narratives,
they're conveying their truths, their parables,
their folklore that is conveying lessons
of how to live your life
or encouraging you hope beyond the grave.
I mean, who doesn't wish?
Maybe some people do.
I've heard it, everyone's got an opinion.
I don't wish that the party was over when I died.
I would love for something greater to be out there.
I would want there to be more.
I really would.
I don't live wishful thinking that,
but I can understand why.
And I had imagined in an ancient mind
when your loved one does pass
and the mind doesn't just turn off.
Oh, they're dead, no more.
I have no ties to them, no connections anymore.
People hear and experience their loved ones
after they die all the time.
So I get it, but I'm not trying to fool myself
and I'm hoping others don't run out there
with this fundamentalist approach.
My worldview is true, yours is wrong.
And I'm gonna jab you and hammer you with it.
Not once in any of these streams that I do.
Am I hammering you, telling you?
You need to think like me,
but if you're running around
smashing people over the head with yours,
I'm giving you sufficient reasoning
on why you shouldn't be so confident
and why this is legendary,
why it looks like mythology, folklore, legend,
not literal history.
And once you see that, the truth will set you free.
I mean, I feel so much freedom
and just seeing this is one operation among thousands
in the world of people deifying
and thinking their guy is the guy
or mostly guys living in a patriarchal world.
What do you do?
Another super chat, shoot, constellation.
How about Ben Stanhope on again,
going over Flat Earth and dome cosmology again?
I bought a lot of books from Ben's book.
I could, let me, you know what, while I have you here.
If you hear any noise, it's Facebook.
I'm gonna message him right now
and she'll be like, dude, someone's right now on the live
telling me you gotta come back.
Ben, Ben Stanhope.
Hey, brother, I'm live on YouTube.
And I wanna have you back.
What?
That's weird.
All right, closing Facebook.
I'm back.
I will definitely work on that constellation.
I've got a lot of interviews that I wanna do
with new people too.
Next, this Thursday, let me give you guys,
while we're here at the end of the stream,
a little heads up on what we got coming up.
I am interviewing Thursday morning, Dr. Gad Barnea.
He's gonna be tackling this whole Mount E-Ball
curse tablet thing and how screwed up the publication is.
Like, there's so many problems with this
and claiming that this thing is actually
really doing what they think it's doing.
There was gonna be a debate Thursday
between Jonathan McClatchy and Neil from Nostac and Formit.
Turns out it's just gonna be me and Neil now
because Jonathan had so many other things
he couldn't meet that, he couldn't do Thursday.
So me and him are gonna go at it
and talk about the Greek world
and interesting things with Dionysus
and what we're finding in the Bible,
not just the New Testament.
I'm looking at Joseph.
I mean, I wrote, along with Robert Price
back in the day when we were still hanging out and talking,
I wrote an article with him in his Journal of Higher
Criticism on Osiris, Joseph, and Jesus.
And then I mentioned Josephus,
because I think Josephus lifts some of the narrative
biblically onto himself, but Dionysus wasn't mentioned here
and we know Dionysus is lifting, borrowing from Osiris
in terms of the Greek and Roman,
what they've done with using Osiris mythology for Dionysus.
So there's some stuff going on in Joseph
that looks kind of Dionysian.
We're gonna maybe get into that.
Next Tuesday, I have ex-Muslim apostate Aladdin coming on
and then May the 31st, I'm waiting for Professor Dave
to write me back.
Me, Professor Dave and Aron Ra are gonna be talking
about his debate that he did with James Tore
on Abiogenesis.
I'm gonna be pushing my courses with James Tabor
into July, cause he's not gonna be available
that first week.
My anniversary with my wonderful Queen of Mythvision,
we will be 16 years married, June the 11th.
And that's, I'm looking forward to that.
I'm gonna be interviewing Yonatan Adler again.
That's coming up on the 13th, cause he just wrote
an article about how the Roman imperial cult
meets Judaism.
He's the same guy who's archeologically showing Judaism
as we know it, like as a religious belief,
like barely started around the Maccabees.
Like there's no archeological data that this is what
they've been practicing or believing for centuries.
And I love that about him.
Dr. Joshua Bowen's flying out here in June
from like the 17th to like the 24th that weekend,
from weekend to weekend.
He's gonna be doing courses with me as well.
Stay tuned.
And anyway, that's what I got on my schedule so far.
Stay tuned, I'm looking forward to it.
A lot of good stuff coming up.
Anybody at all, if you have anything you're interested
in hearing or you want to, you know, contact me.
You can always email me.
I do try to check them every time I can.
And I really appreciate you all.
Please like this stream.
I hate that I keep coming in and out of focus
cause I'm not sure how far away I am from the camera.
Apologies.
Maybe you don't have to stare at my ugly mug
the whole time.
Either way, I love you.
I really do.
If you're down and out, please get into a community
where people are showing you that kind of love.
I've got a Facebook group.
You can join if you're on Facebook,
MythVision it's called.
Down in the description, we have a Patreon.
You can also go in there and get all the content early.
You can join the membership program on YouTube.
There's a Discord.
MythVision has a Discord.
I'm never in it.
I usually only use Discord for the AI stuff,
but I hope that we keep the community tight.
We keep growing and helping others
to kind of find that freedom, find their truth
that helps them live in this world
cause this world's not easy.
And I understand I probably have a narrative
that I've spun in my own head.
So I'm not knocking narratives.
I'm knocking people who wanna monetize
that theirs is the truth or else.
That's the bullshit.
So I love you and please drop a comment after the stream
letting the algorithm know that we exist.
I appreciate you.
And anyway, I need to probably put some food in me,
get a little blank in my head.
I'm also trying to diet.
COVID kicked my butt.
So personal information.
I've been hitting the gym the last eight or nine days
trying to get back in shape.
And used to be like a Greek god.
You see the sculptures.
So I'm trying to get back in shape
and not eating as much as I usually do,
but I'll probably be eating something like.
Thank you everybody.
Really, really appreciate that.
Is Hypatia Stanhope here?
Love, I love you too, Derek.
We gotta set something up.
Osiris Reborn, I'd love to see some fun side shows
on the Codex Gigas, the Devil's Bible, or other topics.
I need to do that.
Deb, love you from the Facebook side.
Thank you so much for tuning in.
Lisa with the love.
Have a great night.
Thanks for the stream.
Thanks for all you do.
Oh, thank you.
Put the work, put the work, Derek.
Stop being lazy, right?
I have, I've been working every morning.
I've been busting my hump.
Get back to your, your swollen days, right?
Right?
Billy says later on, Derek, enjoy the food, man.
Thanks for the stream.
Thank you.
Getting ready to hire an online personal trainer.
Found a great one.
Can't believe how much weight I put on during COVID, right?
Thank you so much.
I really appreciate the love.
I'm gonna head out and I think I'll play a little outro.
My little Matrix outro.
Thank you, everybody.
Never forget, we are MythVision.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed
and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth.
Nothing more.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Oh oh ooh ooh ooh ooh oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, ooh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, oh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, uh, oh, oh, oh, oh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, uh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
You
