If I'm saying that these are normal Greco-Roman authors,
the Gospel authors, there must be evidence somewhere outside
of Christianity for other writers to be reading them
or engaging these texts because I can't posit that they're part
of kind of this, you know, cultural and limited elite class
of people who can read and write and then say
but they're still kind of isolated on their own.
That doesn't really make sense.
And so I started to look around for evidence
that maybe there are some other Greco-Roman authors who are aware
of the Gospels or at least engaging in similar themes.
And one place where I, there are more examples
that I've since found that I'm trying to work on for the next book
but, you know, want to kind of keep under wraps for now,
just so I don't spoil the next book.
But in this one, I talked about a text called the Satiracon
and it's usually attributed to this guy named Petronius
and he's supposed to live in the first century.
So some people think, I'm not the first one to have noticed
that there are similar stories in the Satiracon and the Gospels
but a lot of people will be like, oh, well, Petronius was
in, you know, the Roman household of the emperor.
Maybe the emperor was curious about Mark, you know,
like there are all kinds of stories that try
to go back to oral tradition.
I won't even bother with getting too deep into it.
But in classics and recent years, there's been a lot
of convincing evidence that the attribution of Petronius
to this text is actually just erroneous
and that the text shows more evidence of being
from the second century and more or less anonymous
because we can't quite tell who wrote it.
And some of the evidence for this includes references
in the text to letters that Pliny wrote
to, there's a collection of the letters of Pliny
who is a governor in Bithnia, including letters
to the emperor Trajan saying
that there are Christians in Bithnia, by the way,
one of our earliest pieces of evidence
that Christianity is existing as a cohesive unit.
So this is somebody who's writing possibly in Pliny's circle
and some of the elements of his story in the Satiracon,
assuming it's a hymn, seem to mirror some knowledge
of early Christianity and maybe these texts, these gospel texts.
So a couple of the examples I give in,
and this is going to be too much text, but I just want to put it
up on the screen for people to give them kind of a taste
of what I had in mind here.
There's one story where this guy named Tremolchio,
you know, let me jump ahead, has a basically a mock funerary meal
for himself with his friends.
And he says that he wants them all
to imagine themselves invited to his funeral
and then he talks about dividing his body among them
for them to eat after his death.
And so the idea of anointing his body before death,
having some kind of ritual death meal ahead of basically
like an execution and then dividing his body
among his followers afterwards,
those themes definitely present in the gospels.
So he says all of those who are beneficiaries in my will
and uses the word testament can take what he has given his body
under the following conditions, that they're invited
into parts and eat it in the presence of people.
Otherwise they'll have cursed my spirit.
So, you know, sounds like a little New Testament to you
to me, kind of a little gospel to me.
Another one is when Tremolchio is talking
about this funerary meal that he's posing
to his friends a cockroach and he gets really upset
because it seems to him to be kind of an omen of death.
And basically he, you know, because it's a comedy,
he cooks it.
But the idea of the cock crowing, you know,
before the predicted death also pretty New Testament-y.
Another example is at the tomb and Mark,
I give the example here of the women who go to the tomb
and they see that it's empty and they flee in terror.
I didn't talk about this Turcon here,
but just one other example from the Greek novel by Keraton.
This idea that you would go to an empty tomb
and then surmise that whoever was supposed to be
in that tomb, now that they're bodily absent is a God,
was all over ancient literature.
It was all over the novel, it was all over mythology,
about Romulus and Remus, about certain emperors,
about other, you know, human beings who become deities.
Basically within Greco-Roman literature,
when your tomb is empty or your body disappears after death,
it's an apotheosis and you become a God.
So the description that you get in the Gospel of Mark
of the women coming to the tomb, seeing it's empty,
they panic, you have, and they're amazed,
that idea of being kind of amazed and stunned
by the revelation that the bodily corpse of the person
has disappeared and therefore must be deified.
Very, very common in this literature.
So the book kind of goes on along those lines.
I have a previous publication with David Constan
that also makes it into the book that talks
about how the Gospels do appear to be more
in terms of genre classification like an ancient biography
and a subversive biography.
So it's kind of an underdog figure
and there are a lot of examples from the first century
that this fits into that trajectory.
So that's basically what the book does,
it tries to escape here.
All right.
Let me stop the share.
So, can you see me?
Yes, yes.
Okay, so does that get it across?
That was, yeah, there's a lot there.
There's a lot there.
And the whole, so I guess we'll start
with a couple of things if that's okay with you.
It's not like all the other interviews I've seen of you
where this is like a professional at a college
that's asking-
No, I'm leaning back.
Right, right?
Let's, so we get the gist of the Gospels.
Maybe I wanna take us through your thinking of like,
how does this impact how we are now looking
at the criteria?
Like, we're not taking this oral tradition approach.
We're seeing these are elitists writing,
they're very well educated,
they know what they're talking about.
But we're saying Paul is rooted in history,
here's this guy, he's highly educated as you mentioned
in this presentation.
What's Paul up to?
If you don't mind, tell us a little bit about Paul
and then maybe I'll get us into a couple examples.
Maybe you can work through your thinking with me
and we can kind of discuss what you think's going on.
So Paul, you know, actually when I went to grad school,
it was for Paul, it wasn't for the Gospels.
So I have a, this is a deep love for this guy.
Or I love the subject.
So I think what's going on with Paul is he,
again, is a Pharisee, he's highly educated.
I think, and I don't want to make it sound like
I'm putting on him all kinds of like intentionality
and like a backstory that, so just, you know, take it,
I'm doing a description here and we can kind of untangle it.
But in a period when, again, like I was saying,
we know that people are interested in Judean stuff.
They want to know about ancient Jewish scripture
because it is ancient,
there's something really interesting going on there.
You have writers like Philo of Alexandria
using platonic thought and popular philosophy of the day
and Stoic thought to say, hey, you know,
whatever you thought Plato said,
Moses said that way earlier,
like there's this kind of competition going on
because of the antiquity of those texts
and people being, meaning Gentiles, non-Jews,
curiosity about it.
People like Afilo, who was actually part of the Roman
imperial family by marriage,
or people like Paul who are highly educated
are able to parlay that knowledge they have,
that deep knowledge they have of those texts.
Paul, by the way, is reading the Hebrew Bible
in the Greek translation called the Septuagint.
He shows evidence of that all the time
and the way he cites the Jewish scriptures.
So he's reading even a Greek version of this material.
And so he is reading into it
because he's so well-educated,
all of the popular philosophy just like Philo is,
and that allows him to communicate not only the antiquity
and the importance of the Jewish scripture itself,
but then engage in popular philosophy
like the cutting edge science of the day, right?
Like stoicism has like a lot of material elements
where they're trying to explain like how spirit,
the word we use for spirit is a material thing
that can like go into your body and change
like the composition of your body.
And like they're trying to do all kinds of these explanations
that are scientific for the period.
So Paul's combining like the compellingness
of these ancient narratives with the popular philosophy.
And he's right talking to these people
and trying to engage them because otherwise,
if he didn't know these things and couldn't come up
with these like philosophical proofs for what he was saying,
why would you listen to him?
Why would you abandon like your entire life?
He's basically putting together
a really comprehensive program for explaining
why what he's saying is legit.
And then plus he's got this whole end of the world thing
that's kind of creates a little immediacy.
But like as time goes on and the end of the world
doesn't come, you know, he has to also read,
you see like in his letters as they go on,
like by the time he gets to Romans,
he has a whole other theology about how like,
well, you're not right, you're not acting right.
That's why, and here's like a moral way to act,
an ethical way to act that conforms with stoicism
that if you act like this, then Jesus will return, right?
And all of that has imperial underpinnings of, you know,
like how unfair things are
and we're gonna be the true inheritors of a kingdom, et cetera.
So he's tapped into the antiquity,
he's tapped into the sacred texts,
he's tapped into the political elements,
he's tapped into popular philosophy.
And he's well educated enough.
And again, that was a rare thing
that he does kind of become almost like a spokesperson,
except not quite because the people he's writing to,
he may have that elite education,
but he's giving the people he's talking to,
even if they didn't go to school,
even if they can't read and write,
the opportunity to talk about these things
and to engage in that kind of paideia,
even if they don't have the formal training.
I think that's why he's successful.
To the extent that he is,
and I actually don't think he's that successful.
Like the Corinthians are not listening to this guy
very well at all.
You know, some people say Philippians and Galatians,
he's having a better time,
but he definitely tells someone, you know,
to castrate themselves.
I think it's the Galatians, right?
Yeah.
Galatians fine, I believe.
Yeah, exactly.
He tells them he helps the nice slips
as he tries to circumcise himself.
And that's because he has other people
kind of competing for their attention, right?
So he's not the only game in town.
And so I think the other reason Paul persists though,
is because I think when the gospel writers
go to write down stuff,
what's floating around,
you know, like a limited number of texts out there,
because a limited number of people can write,
what's out there are Paul's letters, right?
So there's a recent piece in a Festschrift,
I think it's for Stan Stowers,
written by Emory Lyandike, who's at Princeton.
I think she's at Princeton now.
That might all be wrong, I'll correct it if it's wrong,
but it's definitely Emory Lyandike.
But she works on the Oxy Ringus papyri,
and there was a library of one individual
who had thrown away a few letters of Paul.
He didn't have all of Romans,
he had like three pages of Romans,
but he also had all kinds of other stuff in his library.
So the idea that you could be an elite Roman male,
again, usually man,
with the means to have the kind of library
where you can kind of, you know, fool around all day,
reading and writing,
and maybe trying your hand at a few things.
Even someone like that had some of the letters of Paul
because he's a great middle plainist.
You know, he's a really creative thinker,
he knows these ancient texts.
And so you wanna try your hand at, you know,
a story of this Jesus guy,
because what Paul provides is a story of Christ,
because he never knew Jesus.
He rarely tells us anything about the historical Jesus,
he doesn't really care.
He gets no authority from that.
You know, he tells us that Peter and James are still around.
Those guys get authority from having known
the historical Jesus,
but they didn't write anything down.
Paul did.
And, you know, he's authorized
because he has the most recent intel,
he talked to the risen Christ.
And so that's what he emphasizes.
And he writes it down.
And then 20 years later,
after the fall of the temple,
when someone's like,
hey, what's going on with this historical Jesus guy?
What do you have lying around?
Paul.
