Did Umar rebuild the Jewish temple?
The Muslim sources say no.
He only built a mosque.
Non-Muslim sources, which date earlier than the Muslim sources, say he did, and that he
was a Redeemer, one who was prophesied to come.
Someone who was going to allow the Jews to come back to the Holy Land.
Today, Dr. Robert G. Hoylund takes a deep dive with me on this very topic.
Also, what is the Dome of the Rock?
Is it an Islamic building commemorating the night journey of Muhammad the Prophet?
Or is that a modern name given to it, and it means something else?
You don't want to miss this interview.
The insights are amazing.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast, ladies and gentlemen.
I have Professor Robert G. Hoylund joining me again.
How are you, my friend?
Very good.
Nice to talk to you again, Derek.
Yes, it's wonderful talking to you.
Of course, I love learning about the rise of Islam and early history within Islam and
Islamic sources and non-Islamic sources and all the voices that might tell us
something about the second largest religion on planet Earth.
And I want our audience to understand that Robert Hoylund read Oriental Studies at
Oxford University, where he subsequently wrote a doctoral thesis on non-Muslim
sources or non-Muslim accounts of the rise of Islam.
And in his Seeing Islam as Others Saw It, 1997 publication.
These are three books I highly recommend you getting.
Seeing Islam as Others Saw It, Arabian Arabs, and In God's Path.
I got the book back here.
I'm representing.
If you really want to get serious on understanding these things, just go to
Amazon, type in Robert G. Hoylund, get some of his works, because I plan on doing
a lot more if we can in the future, Dr. Hoylund.
So that being said, thank you for joining us again.
I had to give people, you're an expert, if I will, just to put it this way, on
early Islamic history and understanding what's going on.
Yeah.
I mean, I've always enjoyed doing period way before that, going back and
I'm really pleased that the fact that I ended up in this place, the Institute for
the Study of the Ancient World, because for me, it's important to go forward
in time looking from antiquity and going rather than what a lot of Islamists
will do is actually go backwards in time from Islam to before.
So I was late antique and Islamic period.
I think it's important to grasp as I use the term zeitgeist that you got to get
the bubble, you got to get the picture.
There's a lot more than just.
All right, here's this thing.
And we really should know, like you say, the world around and the world within.
And you should give both voices a chance.
So is Umar the Messiah, the Redeemer?
Is Umar the Savior?
This is the question today, right?
Like the second caliph.
And we're going to be focusing on that specifically.
How important, if you don't mind telling us, was he to Muhammad?
And what impact does he have on Islam today?
So there's a personal link between Umar and Muhammad and that they belong
to the same tribe of Quraish.
Omar's from a slightly different family, the Banu Adi, but the same tribe
based in the area of Mecca, Medina.
And Muhammad marries Omar's daughter.
So Omar becomes his father-in-law.
So there's a close bond that way, as you will see, actually, with all the
earlier converts and those who belong to the movement started by Muhammad.
Wow, I remember listening to Leslie Hazeltons after the Prophet
and like the struggle and the wrestling that was within the community.
Of course, she's not taking the historical, critical approach that,
you know, you would, but it's still it helps you get a grasp of the narrative.
And you're going, hold on, where's Ali?
Well, why isn't Ali the guy?
And of course, the Shi'a Sunni split, like she goes into that.
And it was a really fun read.
So I recommend it.
And yeah, the second part of your point, how important is Omar?
So to Muhammad, but also to the Muslim world.
Omar becomes and still is a really major figure.
You get this a bit.
There was a film done in 2012 on Omar, which did very well.
And there's a biography of him from the 1930s.
I think it was also very popular translated into many languages.
And Omar is this really major figure.
He's seen to have the grace of God bestowed on him.
And that allows him to predict things, to see into the unseen, to perform
superhuman tasks connected in many ways with the legislation of Muhammad.
Some even accord him a kind of secondary role as a legislator after Muhammad.
So he's a very major figure for any Muslim as well,
particularly for Sunni Muslims.
Thank you for that answer.
I really appreciate that.
And if we may answer this question under Omar, the Arabs conquered a lot of land.
Can you tell us a little bit about how far he conquered while in power, of course?
Like, do you happen to have an idea of how far he made it in the conquest?
So he personally didn't make it very far in that.
And actually, the Armenian chronicler, Sir Beos, writing around 660,
he says specifically that Omar didn't leave Arabia.
But the generals operating under his name, they make it, they go to Egypt,
they go to the area of what we call the Levant, Syria, Palestine, Jordan,
and then into Iraq and start conquering areas in Western Iran.
So yeah, it's a very substantial area.
They're heading out in all directions east, west and north.
Wow. OK, OK.
Now we know from both Muslim and non-Muslim
sources that Jerusalem was captured under Omar and he met Saphronius,
who died in 638 AD.
And I wanted to show, if you don't mind, a short clip from the Arabic series
called Omar with English subtitles just to show people.
Here's the thumbnail in case anybody is interested in going and checking it out.
Of course, you can probably need subtitles to do so.
But here is the short little clip here.
Take me to where a messenger was during his night journey.
The place of the prophet's night journey should never be in such a state.
Obviously, in that little clip, they were taking him, I think,
to the foundation stone by Saphronius, where the Jewish temple once stood.
And the interesting thing is that if we look at Tabari, who died in 923 AD,
it shows that it was actually a Jew and not Saphronius who took him there.
If I may, just to show a picture of Tabari.
Here is a little picture of the actual text or the book
that you could actually, I guess, get a copy of if you wanted to.
And the text itself, a prophet predicted, what have you done today?
Umar asks, in what way?
And then, of course, down here, God sent a prophet to the city
buried in rubbish and said, Rejoice, O Jerusalem,
Arish Shalom, Al Farouk will come to you and cleanse you.
Just wanted to show some context here.
But what do you think is there like a discrepancy here in sources?
Yeah, I've got to take a step back here, though,
because this is your first mystery, if you like, which I'm happy
when you want to write into me if they have the answer.
We actually don't have any, all the 7th century sources that we have
do not mention Omar going to Jerusalem
or Saphronius meeting him.
And we actually have quite a few 7th century sources.
So it's nice to see, for us, for example, who he's actually later,
but he incorporates a chronicle written in Constantinople in the 640s.
Has a wonderful account, though.
Rinal asks going to Egypt, really detailed accounts of him,
but nothing about Omar in Jerusalem.
Fredigar, chronicle, he's over in Franckier Gaul,
but he evidently has access to material about the East
because he does mention Heraclius and his fights with the Arabs.
So they ask himself, wonderful,
I mentioned him already, Armenian chronicle 16 says he's actually
got information from Prisoners of War, from coming from Arab camps.
So, you know, good information.
He talks about Jerusalem and the Arab capturing it.
And nothing about Omar going there or Saphronius.
I'm just going to leave that with you before.
So we do not know for sure.
I personally am suspicious about the whole thing,
because it's like any of these where you get to most famous people
to meet, it's kind of irresistible for later writers to do that.
And this could be, of course, why the person can change.
OK, Omar's there, but was it Saphronius?
Was it this guy who is actually a Jewish convert to Islam?
But it's not specifically a Jew or at least he's a Jew and then Muslim.
So that's important to understand in the first place that we could be.
So this the account of Saphronius meeting Omar
is first mentioned in a Syriac Chronicle.
Well, actually, it's probably Greek Chronicle that gets translated
into Syria, my opinion.
But anyway, from around 750, it's quite late, 750, 120 years later.
And that's our first account.
So how true this is?
It's different.
So from the Arabic side, the meeting was going away
into the ninth century before we get that account.
Right. So inevitably, by this date, I mean, Omar is the second
Caleb, beloved of God, beloved of Muhammad.
Yeah, I mean, here's another late account, right?
So the in Al Baruni, I hope I'm pronouncing it right, died in 1048 AD.
Farouk means Redeemer in Syriac, which is a title given to Jesus.
And just to show a few of these titles here so people can go and check it out
for themselves if they want to, you could see Jesus, the Messiah,
the greatest Redeemer.
And then, of course, that's just a zoom in so you can see what was
on the right side of the previous page.
We also find in Tabari, Omar writing on a donkey like the Messiah
who prophesied to come.
And as you just said before, what I find interesting about that is
and just to show people like all in all, Omar went to Syria four times
on a donkey, you know?
And so it's like you were saying, like, are they
painting this narrative and like profits ride on donkeys?
Like or holy figures, people like that are riding on donkeys.
This is late too, right?
So can we actually trust what's being said here?
So for sure, these are long accounts and there is huge amounts of detail as well.
Omar, what you know, what he's wearing, he's always portrayed.
He's this humble, strong and humble, highest, but passionate.
You know, so there's a whole image being built up, which accrues over time,
gathering many more beaches of it.
So that's certainly there.
The question is how much could we discern as potentially relics of an earlier time?
The most interesting is certainly the use of the term al-Farouq.
It's pretty much certain that this has to be coming from reflecting
the Syriac in the Hebrew and just simply broad summiting.
So it's not that it's, I don't mean the Arabic is taking it from the Syriac
or Hebrew, but this is a broad, submitted term, which doesn't mean to separate,
but it also means to deliver to redeem.
So which possibly has something to do with separating righteous from unrighteous people.
But anyway, one of the things that deliverer
the redeemer who's meant to do separate the wicked from the good
after the day of judgment.
So it's hard to think that isn't coming from a much earlier
time, because it's not.
You can see in the later explanations in the ninth and tenth centuries
that they're not was in commentators.
I'm quite sure what to do with this, Farouq.
Who gave him that title?
Some say it was the Jews, some the Christians.
Some say it was God sent an angel and the angel addressed him in that way.
So I'm not really too sure what to do about this.
And he's given different meanings and so on.
So it has a high chance of being a relic from an earlier period.
How much earlier it would say that that it, you know,
running from an earlier period in Europe.
It's interesting to add all this information in.
We also find in Sebios, which you've mentioned this passage
about Jewish temple being rebuilt.
And for those who are interested, here is the Armenian history
attributed to Sebios.
And if you pay close attention to historical commentaries
by James Howard Johnson, which we just did an interview with.
So I highly recommend people go and check those out as well.
But chapter forty three concerning the Jews and the wicked plots.
I shall also speak about the plots of the rebellious Jews
who after gaining help from the Hagarines,
I hope I'm saying that right for a brief while,
decided to rebuild the Temple of Solomon, finding the spot called Holy of Holies.
They rebuilt it with base and construction as a place for their prayers.
But the Ishmaelites being envious of them, expel them from that place
and called the same house of prayer their own.
Then the former built in another spot right at the base of the Temple,
another place for there, and then it continues.
Anything that you might want to.
Yeah, so, as I say, there is one, there's an absence there.
No, Omar, no, Saffronius, interestingly, I'll just leave that there.
But the second, so you've got to get
into the whole mentality of the Jewish community at this time.
They've been excluded
from worshiping on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem
for hundreds of years by this time.
Their temple was destroyed hundreds of years beforehand.
All Jewish apocalyptic is directed towards the idea
that the temple will be rebuilt and they will once again be able
to worship that and go there to fulfill their duties,
which are laid out, you know, in the Torah
of attending the various festivals there.
There is a part of their duties, so it's really important.
And things are really heightened in this period,
because in 614 the Persians captured Jerusalem.
And they certainly, certainly,
Jews are there alongside the Persians in the armies,
whether the Persians just tolerate them or they fully formed an alliance,
it's difficult to say, but the Jews are allowed to be in Jerusalem.
And again, it looks like they've rebuilt,
at least in some way, the Temple.
There's a lot of Jewish apocalyptic, some poems,
some actual apocalyptic texts, and someone
which mentioned that for three years under a leader they had there,
they were able to worship again.
In the Temple and had some sort of rudimentary structure there
that they could actually practice and once again, you know,
be there for the important ceremonies and festivals
and Jewish religion.
So that didn't pan out, you know, they were probably expecting there.
Now, while the Messiah must be about to come now,
you know, after hundreds of years, we're back near again in the holy place
before we are rich and fantastic, you know.
Messiah doesn't appear, but then again, the Arabs come,
they kick out the Byzantines.
So again, the Jews are going to get very excited
and once again, get on to the Temple Mount,
get ready, things ready for the Messiah to come and so on.
So he's very understandable from the Jewish perspective
they would want to do this.
The interesting thing, of course, is that Zabeel says
also the Arabs did, though, they wanted a prayer place there.
In many ways, you could say that's not unexpected
since it said, although it may much on,
in this biography of Muhammad and alluded to in the Quran,
the first Kibla, the first direction of prayer
for Muhammad's community was Jerusalem.
Then, presumably, it is what you would expect
that they would want the House of Prayer in Jerusalem
and the obvious place is the holy place, the holy, holy places.
It's then, of course, fascinating to think how,
what exactly is influence this?
We don't really get much information in the Muslim tradition
about this first Kibla towards Jerusalem.
It's just said, oh, yeah, first, they pray towards Jerusalem.
They pray towards Jerusalem.
And when you read that, you kind of want to say, just a minute.
Why? Why do they pray towards Jerusalem?
Were they Jews? Were they just?
What explains this?
No, did they take over some of the elements from Judaism
because, you know, there is obviously a link there
and since, you know, they get called Ishmaelites.
And that's because, of course, they both Jews and Muslims
in theory are coming from, descended from Abraham.
So they have the same father.
You know, is there something to do with it?
But it's never explained so.
But I think Zabaeus's testimony is very important
that that obviously Jerusalem is important very early on
to the Arabs, for a not very clear reason
for all of Muhammad's community anyway, shall I say.
But it's actually very important.
So this testimony is striking exactly what we do.
It is another question.
Yeah, because I've heard different people
with different guesses on what I think is happening
based on the data.
Are these Jews with Ishmaelites or if you will, Isaac and...
Is it Isaac and Ishmaelites?
Yeah, I think it is.
Yeah, and so they're like forming an alliance
and then there's a break in the alliance.
So they're like, screw you, you know, I've heard that.
But I've also heard other ideas
that like maybe the Muslims are in a particular bind.
And at first they were cool with that,
but they found themselves in a predicament
where they couldn't make the Hajj
all the way up to Jerusalem.
So it's like, why not have something
where we're working out with the Medinans
and stuff down here.
There's all sorts of different possible avenues to take.
If I may, I wanna talk about this Theophilus of Odessa
who died in 785 AD in this passage,
also about the Jewish Temple,
kind of riding on the Jewish Temple right now.
And here's the text.
For those who are interested in checking out a copy yourself,
you can always follow up.
Let's just put it this way.
It was translated with an introduction and notes
by none other than Robert G. Hoylan.
And also here you have the Capture of Jerusalem
and the Visit of Umar.
So Umar entered the holy city,
dressed in filthy garments of camel hair
and showing a devilish pretense,
sought out the Temple of the Jews,
the one built by Solomon,
that he might make it a place of worship
for his own, notice the fervor here,
blasphemous religion.
I wonder who's writing this text.
Dr. Hoylan, would you like to comment on what's going on?
So you actually, because what I do in that book
is take, because Theophilus is chronicle itself
in its life, I take the four later witnesses
to the chronicle and they are quite different.
So we have Theophilus right in Greek.
We have two Syriac texts.
And then we have a Christian-Arabic text.
And Theophanes Greek is over in Byzantium.
But people in Byzantium are not happy with the Arabs.
They've taken a hell of a lot of their empire away,
a lot of their provinces.
So inevitably they're very negative.
So anything that Theophanes writes about
is Latin, it's only negative.
And any Greek author, writer of that period.
So that's, he's adding all this blasphemous religion stuff.
You won't find that in the two Syriac and Arabic versions.
And he's probably wasn't in Theophilus of Odessa
because Theophilus himself is actually an astrologer
of the court of the caliphs, particularly Caliph Matthew
in the 767 to the 770s period.
So there's no way he's going to be say,
hey, Mansour, Matthew, you're blasphemous religion.
So what about that?
You know, it's not.
So that's why I actually put them together,
text of the people could actually see for themselves
what might be there at the base of it.
So Theophilus also, I should say he's,
I think what's happening is he's got hold of a Greek chronicle
that goes up to around 743.
And he translates that into Syriac.
But so it's not going that far back in this text.
And that's why I wonder about the connection
with Sophronyism or my I don't know for sure.
But anyway, it does the actual building of the temple bits.
And he does fit in with what Simeos is telling us
80 years beforehand.
So I think the actual building on the temple mount
is fairly secure.
We actually have two other mid-seventh century texts
as well, one by a monk called Anastasius of Sinai.
Important guys in Sinai, but he gets lots of information
coming to him from travelers.
And he is about the building on the temple mount
somewhere around 660, something like that.
And then a collection of kind of holy deeds
of the holy men, wondrous deeds of holy men
attributed to John Moshos, who's an early seventh century monk.
It includes a later, slightly later version includes
in Georgian, actually includes a tale about, again,
clearing work, preparatory to building on the temple mount.
So I think we have a hell of a lot of information
leading to the fact of Muslim's building on the temple mount.
But crucially in all, this is perspective.
But it's a bit like saying it was Omar the Messiah.
It's going to depend a bit on your perspective.
So if you're Jews and Omar saying, yeah, of course,
you can come into Jerusalem and worship in Jerusalem again.
And of course, you can build on the temple mount.
You might think in some way, at least,
he's part of the Islamic drama that he's
only leading up to the coming of the Messiah.
So definitely he's being built into an apocalyptic thinking.
The Christians is very different because they
were told by Jesus that the temple will be thrown down.
And it will remain unbuilt.
No stone will be left on top of another.
And only when it's getting to the end of days
will the temple be rebuilt, or at least you will see.
And he says about the abomination of desolation
and expression from the Book of Daniel in the holy place.
So the Christians have a bit in the reverse.
They also think of it as something apocalyptic.
They're rebuilding on the temple mount,
and they mention it as such.
But it's a bad thing.
Terrible.
It's something evil because Jesus said there wouldn't be
any building till the end of time.
But it's still obviously something very apocalyptic.
So the key question I suppose you want me to answer
is whether Mohammed, whether Omar, rather,
he's whether Muslims see Omar as the Messiah,
Medina, that's a more tricky question.
The use of the term al-Faruq, we mentioned it,
quite possibly leads in that direction.
And just all this general material right now,
don't use wearing a camel hair shirt, things like this.
It's definitely giving him overtones of the Messiah,
the more these great religious importance.
Yeah, this is a great question.
And I'm so glad that you're elaborating on this.
I mean, I'm being a little rigorous on bringing our images up.
It's good to have you flex around and let us see.
I'd love to see some of those other sources
that you're talking about that are earlier.
If we will just to continue, we have a medieval text.
And here we have the travels of rabbi,
correct me if I'm wrong, Petashia?
Petashia.
Yeah.
Petashia.
Petashia.
Petashia.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Petashia.
And just giving people what book this is, here is the cover.
And here is the source.
So I'm squinting here, but there is also,
there a beautiful palace which the Ishmaelites built
in ancient times when Jerusalem was still
in the hands of the Ishmaelites.
Then came worthless persons who brought
to the king of the Ishmaelites.
The slanderous report saying there is an old man among us
who knows the locality of the temple and the court.
Then the king urged him until he pointed it out.
The king was a friend of the Jews and said,
I will build here a temple and none but Jews shall pray therein.
He built the temple of the marble stone
and beautiful structure consisting of red, green,
and variegated marble.
Just to give people a little tease.
And we also have this passage in the works of William of Tyre
who died in 1186 AD called the history of the deeds done
beyond the sea.
And I know this is getting a little late in time,
but it's still fun to bring up different sources
to let people see.
And this one, it talks about Umar, the son of Qatab,
and that he was the builder of this temple.
Was Umar seen as the Messiah who was to rebuild the temple
as we've been asking over and over?
And there's some evidence that could help someone maybe draw
that kind of conclusion.
In general, I mean, for any period,
yes, you will find sources that tell you
Umar built something on the temple mount.
No problem there.
The question is the intention.
What did he think he was doing?
And then after that, I suppose, what Muslims
think he was doing, what did the Jewish Christians
think he was doing?
It's not a surprise that Jews and Christians
might either assume or worry that he was rebuilding
the temple of Jerusalem.
How do we get into the mind of Umar, though?
And that's a bit more tricky.
It's impossible, I think, for anyone in that period
not to have known the significance of the temple
mount, and even more so, the rock.
The rock, the tip of Mount Moriah,
which is still there today, it's very evident
when you go inside.
In fact, in the Dome of the Rock,
you kind of circumambulate it.
You can walk around it.
Evidently, that's the whole point of it.
And Mount Moriah, the rock, this is the foundations
down the epicenter of the world.
It's the when God himself is meant to have stood for a while
during, before, during, or after creation.
Jacob rests his head on it when he's having his dream.
Abraham is meant to, when they're to sacrifice his son,
get stopped, but that's the point there at that point.
David, King David, meant to have prayed there.
So it's incredibly important in Judeism,
and it's hard to think, and it becomes so in Christianity
to sum it into a lesser extent.
So it's hard to think that Oma wouldn't have known that,
and that the general, and he would realize, given that it's
been abandoned, the area of the temple mount
by a degree of Roman Christians, that this,
he would be told why, that's significant.
So he's going to know that this is a significant spot,
exactly out of all these different legends and ideas,
which is uppermost in his mind, and why exactly it mattered
to him as ruler and leader of this new movement.
He gets his mentor being the first to have the title,
Amir and Mu'minin, commander of the believers.
So he's leading this movement started by Muhammad.
So what's the significance to them?
And as I say, this is not so easy to get, in a way.
It's set for, what's important in our perspective
is not that we think Muhammad was trying
to start a new religion, but rather that he was trying
to reform the old religion.
I mean, this is, to be honest, probably mostly true.
Jesus said the same, I didn't come to change the law,
not one iota of the law should be changed.
So most often prophets are trying to get people to go back
to the real, one true religion, not to actually start
their own new one, which makes no sense.
If you only believe there's one religion of God,
it makes no sense.
There's Dean and Lies, religion of God,
how can there be lots of them?
There's a very modern perspective,
but all that's great, we have lots of religions
getting on very well together,
but that's a very modern perspective.
So there's only one true religion.
And then in that sense, there's no problem
that this is the holy place, the Temple Mount,
for people of this one true religion, of all believers.
The fact that Christians might have gone a bit wrong
from their perspective and believed in Jesus
as a God rather than the prophet, or the Jews
in a few dubious things, or didn't recognize Jesus,
one of the prophets, is neither here nor there.
There's still only one religion, and there's no reason
that Jerusalem should be the holy place
and not the Temple Mount, the most holy place.
So in that sense, that might be Omar's way of thinking
that he's building a prayer place for all believers,
but mainly to pray and to be the holy of homies.
I really enjoy this.
I love how you brought up the rock,
and I was there actually.
I filmed right there at the,
I was right there at the dome of the rock.
We went to the, you know,
where the court of the Gentiles were located,
and of course I couldn't walk into the mosque,
but, you know, I was up there, taking pictures.
I even saw where they would have, or they say,
the holy of holies was located in fact,
many Jews are standing down at the Welling Wall.
They tilt left while they're rocking their heads
towards the holy of holies.
There's a lot of cool things you learn as you go there.
I'm not a big fan of the whole separation
and giving the small little section for women
on the right side who have to watch their kids
during bar mitzvahs over the fence.
That's my own personal, you know,
I've got some, like, you know, my own little thing,
but I do wanna, I think it's important to just bring up,
this is something that we talked about
before we did this episode of images
that I think are kind of cool, fun facts along the way
about this whole center of Jerusalem.
And Jerusalem being like the center of the world
on these maps, we know, you know,
there's too many Christian maps that we'll bring up,
and ones from 1581 and the others
between 1262 and 1280.
There's this image just to give people an idea,
and then there's this image.
And of course, Jews and Christians saw Jerusalem
as like the center of the world for most of history.
I wonder if the same cosmology worked within Islam
or the early believers of Muhammad,
I don't see why they wouldn't.
And I don't know.
Yeah, that's a bit more complicated.
No, not in an official, well,
this goes back to our question of how much Muhammad
owned Omar's movement, him as Radima,
how much that's an earlier relic.
So of course, once the carver is fully established
as the only sanctuary of,
or site of pilgrimage anyway, of Islam,
they know Mecca, of course, becomes the center of the world.
Although from geography's point of view,
as you go later, 19th and 10th century,
for many geographers point of view,
Baghdad is the center of the world.
But that is because there's many different strands in Islam.
It's not one culture, really,
and they do tap into that old Persian culture,
which the capital of Persia as well was just by Baghdad,
Sulucia Tesfong, the old capital,
not very far away, just a few miles down the road.
And for them, of course, that was their center of the world,
and that does get inherited by a more kind of,
not secular strand, but it's imperial strand.
Right.
Cosmology.
So there's not just one, it's not quite so clear-cut.
Partly, of course, because,
so Jesus is in the Jerusalem area,
whereas obviously, Muhammad's not,
so there's not quite such a connection.
Thank you.
I did ask the travel that he's going to Jerusalem,
and of course, that's meant to have happened in the,
as the Quran refers to a night journey where he goes to,
he's squarely in Arabia, and Mecca's squarely in Arabia,
so in the end, that's the center of religious cosmology,
but also, as I say, think of Islam,
also as a grand imperial culture
that embraces really many people's,
many, extremely many Persians in the night symphony.
So actually, they're quite proud to have Baghdad
as the center of the world.
Thank you so much.
I also have a 15th century copy of an 8th century Jewish text
called The Secrets of Rabbi Shimon Bar Yochai,
with the Arab conquest part written in the mid-7th century.
Might as well show these
to let people see some of these manuscripts.
The ghost of myth vision has provided for us.
I really appreciate the hard work he puts
into helping us out here.
Can you tell us a little bit about this manuscript
and what it says?
Well, this manuscript itself, it's quite late,
comes from the Ghaniza, this fantastic trove
of Jewish texts across a large period of time
that was stored in a major synagogue in Kyren
that's found to have, you know,
or anything that had the word of God on,
throwing it into the attic.
Because you can't burn it if it has the name of God in it.
So it's all stored there.
And it just is a wonderful treasure trove of Jewish life
in the early medieval period.
And there are actually a number of versions
of this particular text.
Apocalypse is very popular in Jewish thinking,
going all the way back to the book of Daniel,
which has a famous apocalypse outlining,
effectively the historical,
or outlining the whole history of the world,
leading up to this.
And so this particular one is very interesting for,
apocalypse tends to have a number of regions layers,
if you like, because every time there's some mega event,
so for Daniel, it's a capture of Jerusalem,
you know, by the Babylonian Nebuchadnezzar.
So every time, you know, something like that happens,
people are like, oh my God, it's the end of the world.
It's about to happen now, now, you know,
and then, you know, each time more gets added on
and it doesn't happen, that's it.
Oh, maybe next time, next time.
And so this text, as we have it,
actually is earlier, it's all to the late eighth,
early ninth century refers to Caleb's much later.
But when it talks about the Arab conquests,
it speaks of the Arabs being with deliverance for Israel.
And so it's been argued, it's about my teacher,
Patricia Kona, and her co-writer of Haters and Michael Cook,
that this must belong to the period of the Arab conquest,
as for any Jew who suffered a lot of persecution
at the hands of the Byzantines
and being refused to enter their home city Jerusalem,
the Arab conquest seemed like, if not miraculous,
at least he was stupendous, you know.
Right.
Because the Arabs kick out the Byzantines
and they do allow the Jews to go back in.
So they seem to get,
the Arabs are getting written into the apocalyptic drama.
So the Arab conquests themselves
are in deliverance for Israel.
And he also mentions that the second king
will be a lover of Israel,
that he will, it seems like, nigg level, Mount Moriah,
so he can create a foundation
and then building a prayer place.
So it is a wonderful technique.
It gives, they gave Michael Cook and Patricia Kona
in their book, Hagerism, the kind of chastification,
really for this interpretation of theirs
that only the very earliest period of his life,
Mohammed's movement, if you like, Mohammed,
I'll go back to Omar, their movement was like a kind of
Judeo-Arab messianic drama,
that the two get linked in the Jewish and Arab ideas
on messianic history and this gets taken forward
with the capture of the Holy Land and the Jewish movement.
On the Temple Mount, how much that's reality
where we can conclude at the end by thinking about that,
but it is really a question.
Yeah, cause I kind of wonder, I mean,
I get why someone internally would try to make those
arguments, I mean, could be the case,
but it also, there are other ways,
that's the thing I learned, like the more you get
into the history and learn about details,
there may be other ways of being able to explain it
and it doesn't have to be, well, this has actually happened
and that this time is being written about it here.
Jews may have been passing on these ideas
and over time, depending on who's in charge
and how their relationship is, maybe at that time
they decided they wanted to say something
and it could have been later.
I do want to bring this text up,
it's another 14th century copy of an eighth century
Jewish text called Perke Derabia Eliezer.
Hope I'm saying that right, Eliezer,
I'm not 100% how I'm pronouncing this,
but here's what the text says and you can correct me
if you want, in the future, the children of Ishmael
will do 15 things in the land of Israel in the latter days.
And then of course it goes on,
and fence in the broken walls of the temple
and they will build a building in the holy place.
I figured that was pretty interesting.
We also find corroboration about building
the Jewish temple and Muslim sources as well.
And here we find a passage in Eben Saad,
who died in 845 AD.
But you may want to comment on this one,
but just to show like here is Eben Saad,
construct the temple of Beit al-Mukabahs.
I hope I'm saying, I'm probably butchering
a lot of this stuff, so.
Well, the rabbit, Eliezer one is quite,
he's actually a bit of a mahogany,
looks like he's put together quite a few things
some are a bit negative and some are quite positive.
A lot of it's a bit negative,
but it includes that building of the temple.
But as it was kind of adds to what I said,
that there's no doubt that the early Muslim community
is building something on the temple man
at a pretty early period.
So indicating Jerusalem is important to them,
this spot, Solomon's temple in a way,
in some way, but as it says,
it's more difficult to get exactly what it is
that is exciting them, whether it is a belief
in that they're participating in a messianic drama.
This is very much Steven Shoemaker's opinion,
which is argued very well,
persuasively in my mind in his book,
but it's always difficult really pushing these points
getting into the minds.
So what was in their minds, that's quite difficult.
Steven was picking up on a fair amount of evidence
that there is a messianic dimension to early Islam.
The crown itself spends a lot of time
talking about judgment day,
the invocation of the top so far off.
Apocalyptic literature and hypothesizing is quite popular
also in Arabic.
So it's plausible to argue, he would say,
that the desire to prepare and be ready
for the end of time, judgment day,
was actually a key part of Mohammed's teaching
enacted by his immediate successors,
Abubakar and Omar.
And that meant being in the right place at the right time,
which is, you know, Messiah's gonna be there.
Right?
You know, the Temple Mount area, so.
Especially if they're like anything,
when I research apocalypticism,
for example, looking at Paul,
I'm gonna analogize at Paul, right?
Anyone who's serious and not doing it for apologetic reasons
will walk away from reading Paul
and realize this guy thinks he's gonna be alive.
But he isn't just sitting back.
You know, my dad used to tell me
when I was like a fundamentalist Christian son,
you can go lock yourself in that closet
and pray to God and ask him to feed you.
But if you don't get out of that closet
and go and make the plate and cook the food,
you will starve to death.
And he's like, the point is,
you need to do something about it, right?
You're not gonna win the lottery if you don't buy the ticket.
So there's this participation, at least in the sense that
if I can convert these Goyim, I think Paul is thinking,
I'm along the lines with Paula Fredrickson
and those kind of thinkers, but they're like,
maybe Paul thinks like there are plenty of passages
in the Bible where the nations need to come in
and that'll enact the second coming or the return
or the final culmination with the Pharisee and all that.
So is there participation on their part
in thinking if I do this, like modern day Zionist Christians
think, hey, if we can get the Jews,
every single Jew into the land,
even at the detriment of people who are already living there,
they will enact the second coming.
And I wonder if there's something there in the thinking,
that's the problem, right?
Like getting into their minds
on what they really wanted to do,
it's lost to history in a sense,
but we can glean little things
that might suggest stuff like this going on.
Sorry for that tangent.
No, it's a key point that you said there's a big,
apocalyptic literature is just extremely popular generally
in Abrahamic religions.
And you could really liken it to our love
of Tuesday scenario films, you know,
oh my God, there's gonna be a huge plague,
there's gonna be pandemics,
there's gonna be little wipers all out,
you know, in films, the pandemic is never just about
having a sore throat and feeling it's tough.
It's like, whoa, it's gonna destroy your body
from the inside out and you may become a zombie, you know,
but we love that sort of religion.
Yeah.
I mean, it is popular, apocalyptic,
literally we're standing in popular.
But there's a, that crucial point is,
yes, enjoying that general speculation
that things are getting hairy and enjoying that thrill
about, oh my God, maybe the end of the world's coming soon.
And actually going out there and doing something about it.
And we have, you know, so in Islam,
you get into the apocalyptic movement too,
right there, the fantastic group, the parameter,
who don't steal the black stone of the Ka'ba,
in the early 10th century, they actually take it away,
they take it over to Bahrain,
and they still make it amazing.
Because one of the things of the end of the world,
end times, is there's gonna be a lot of bad stuff happens
before the Messiah comes.
So a lot of crazy stuff,
the world's gonna get turned upside down,
so you get a lot of groups, apocalyptic groups,
and like try and create that.
So they don't just simply sit there thinking,
oh no, we'll end the world,
actually do something,
wow, it's still the black stone of Mecca.
This is like one of the craziest things you can imagine.
So there is a big difference for the action,
the apocalyptic sense that, wow,
things are going a bit wacky,
which some people felt like, I think,
during the COVID pandemic,
but actually acting on it, doing something,
starting a new movement, going and trying to capture
the holy site, conquer the world,
and it's ready for the second coming,
this is bigger stuff.
I'm not, I'm sorry,
I think you interviewed Stephen, didn't you?
So, imagine this may be case better than anyone,
so I'm not gonna say it's very, very interesting material.
I don't think we focused enough on the apocalyptic,
even though we did mention it.
I, you know, he's written many books,
and the one we kind of dealt with this whole
revisionist slash traditional,
that was like one of the things,
and you know how we talked about before this episode,
too many things is gonna take us off the top,
like I wanna do an exclusive apocalypticism
in early Quranic, early Islamic,
early outside voices, inside voices, you name it,
and if we can get this big puzzle together,
even if it is fragmentary,
that's what I'm aiming at,
and even today's show with Umar being the redeemer,
like this has to include apocalyptic thinking
to some degree, or at least in some sense,
he himself is someone special.
So, if I may continue, just to keep us going here,
we have, oh, sorry, go ahead.
I don't know how to say, it was a bit of a sight,
fascinating sight, but yeah, the whole...
Yeah, I love what you've described so far,
and we can get into all sorts of fun stuff with that,
and I hope we do at some point.
We also find more corroboration in Christian texts
called the Apocalypse of Shenute,
and here we have a 19th century Arabic copy
of the original that was written around 690 AD
in Coptic or Greek, and I'm gonna show this one here
for people to get an idea,
and just so people know, I'll read what it says,
and it says, and after that,
the sons of Ishmael and the sons of Esau will arise,
they will pursue the Christians,
and the rest of them will want to rule over
the entire world and dominate it,
and they will build the temple in Jerusalem.
So, there seems to be evidence pointing to Umar
rebuilding the Jewish temple.
Why do you think Muslim historians
have edited this part out?
I haven't exactly edited it out,
as Elis goes back to my constant point that,
yes, there's definitely building on the Temple Mount,
but what's the intention behind it?
So, we don't really have a dispute over the exact fact,
but I mean, there's a little bit,
whether it's Umar or Ma'awya.
By Ma'awya's time, it's really,
there we have some really excellent sources,
which we'll get ready,
there's at least three from Ma'awya's reign
that are talking about building on the Temple Mount.
It looks like Ma'awya might have,
well, either he's building a new or he's extending,
so if we accept Umar's,
it's hard to think that just, you know, you've got true,
I mean, we must look to the British Empire,
I mean, when the soldiers stationed all over the place,
of course, they had to chaplain in your church,
I mean, what do you expect your people to do
if you're of a relatively religious inclination?
So, it's hardly surprising that the Muslims
wouldn't have put a prayer place of some type.
So, that's nothing surprising there.
As I say, the crucial thing is what you think,
why put it on the Temple Mount,
and what exactly is important about putting it there,
as opposed to in another bit of Jerusalem,
it must mean that for Muhammad's community,
they did find the links with Jewish history,
Jewish biblical history important.
And we know, of course, from the Quran,
you know, the Quran does speak positively
of Solomon, David, and so on.
So, it's the Solomonic Temple,
David was praying there on the Mount Ma'awya,
so it's not at all surprising whether that exactly,
but as I say, the difficult bit is whether
it's got an apocalyptic dimension as well.
That's more tricky.
And especially when you come just a little later,
why Abdu'l Malik himself decides to build this,
what isn't a mosque?
You actually did refer to the Temple of the Rock
as a mosque, but it's not a mosque.
Right.
It's commemorative.
It's built around the rock.
You walk around the rock,
there's a whole, you know, area for circumambulating.
Yeah, because the mosque is actually,
there's a mosque, but it's like a half a football field.
Yeah.
Well, the mosque is the Aksar Mosque.
That's also on the Temple Mount, the raised bit.
They've built underground and done all sorts of stuff
and I'm not allowed to go in there,
but like we were looking,
trying to look through the window and stuff,
they've done all sorts of stuff underneath there.
Yeah, there's an area called Solomon Stables,
which some people argue is Omar's stroke ma'am is mosque.
That's actually where it is.
It's below, it's not above.
Wow.
Which is possible.
The only problem with Jerusalem is, you know,
so many kings and rulers and governors have built on it
over and under and done so many things at different times.
Just since the time I'd be there,
I first went, you know, about 1990,
and then actually you could just go to the Dome of the Rock.
No problem.
Anyone could walk in there or something.
Because it isn't a mosque, it's not actually what it is.
It's meant to be a place that only Muslims can go to.
And there wasn't all this big security stuff
which has all been added later.
When you look at it now,
a lot of that was actually added in my lifetime,
just a little over the last 2000 years.
Yeah, I barely got through with my camera.
I mean, like they were stopping me
because I had a tripod attached to it,
but they didn't want any filming at all.
Sorry, I broke that rule, but you know.
This is quite different.
When you look at, so you read actually a Tuberace text earlier
and it said, the translation says something like,
well, I entered the mosque.
Well, that doesn't make any sense
because it isn't built yet.
It's only just got there.
So we didn't enter anything and there isn't a mosque.
I presume it's masjid, but masjid,
the problem of translating it is mosque
because it gives you a sense of definite building
with walls and the ceiling and so on.
But it only means the place where you prostrate.
Then that changes things.
So he may not have actually entered into a building
as opposed to enter the place
where he was going to do his prostrations
and say a prayer.
So it's a little bit tricky at each stage
what exactly is being said.
And with something as controversial and tricky
is this, you want to be sure what's being said.
So you do need to really analyze it and think about it.
Yeah, well, I'll leave that there.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No biggie, no biggie.
Well, you know, I get many Muslim apologists.
For example, I'm going to show this manuscript here.
They say that Batal Magdis,
I hope I'm saying this pronunciation is okay,
means the city of Jerusalem.
However, when we look at this manuscript,
which is a 1307 AD copy of another work by Al Baruni.
And I want to do a little zoom in here
so people can actually see up close.
Yeah, it's beautiful.
Yeah.
Illustrated.
I enhance the colors so people can actually see
this image that is in this.
We can see a picture of the Doma of the Rock
and on the Doma of it,
the Doma itself is in white Arabic writing.
It says,
Batal Magdis.
And we also, that's a zoomed in version.
We also find this 16th century Jewish image
of the Doma of the Rock.
And let's get that up on the screen.
It says Bat Magdis.
So just showing you the image.
We can also find, just to give another image
in the Sistine Chapel in the Vatican
where the Pope is elected, 1482 AD,
painting of Jesus handing over the keys to heaven to Peter.
And in the background, we see the Doma of the Rock
and that's right here.
So that's a beautiful painting as well
for anybody who's into this kind of stuff.
So what do you say about the, going back up, of course,
Muslim apologists are trying to say,
that Batal Magdis means the city of Jerusalem.
But when we look at that manuscript
and all this other stuff,
what do you think about that kind of statement?
So I think in origin, the expression Batal Magdis,
it really has to be a coin
on the basis of the Jewish term.
We should bid, ha, mid-dash.
Same thing, you put the definite article,
the house of the sanctity of the holy place.
So in its original coining,
yes, it must really come from the Hebrew
and be used to refer to the temple in particular.
As a famous historian, Mark Bloch said,
the problem with historians is that names change.
Basically, people don't keep using the same word
to refer to the same thing, same thing at the same time.
And it can be used.
So Batal Magdis, yes, very definitely the temple.
And that must be what Batal Magdis was meant for.
But it also, by association,
gets used for the temple mount area,
as the mount with all the bits on it.
And by association with Jerusalem, which houses.
So it's one of these where both sides are right
to some extent.
Definitely, as I said, the origin has to be the temple.
I forgot to bring up this too,
just to give people more, you know,
the question is, is the Dome of the Rock,
the Jewish temple as the name Dome of the Rock
seems to be modern one and not used in the past.
But you do have this kind of, you know,
here's coin inscription, Arabic inscription
in field Crescent Lower Field Center,
all enclosed by linear circle on the right.
And then on the left is the menorah,
in Arabic inscription, anti-clockwise in margin from.
So just wanting to show that, but like.
I know, it's beautiful.
It's actually quite fascinating within this,
I mean, it's a side topic really,
but in that period from Oma to Abdul Malik,
you know, it's a fairly short period of time,
50 years, you get a whole series of coins,
which originally they,
oh, before Oma is all very standardized
by Zangtang coins in the Levant.
And then suddenly it's a variety of entry to everyone.
Some very surprising,
then the menorah is one of those that's a bit surprising.
For those coins that we don't actually know,
it's likely that in some cases,
it's a local authority doing the minting,
because they're all coppers,
and coppers are fairly basic there to do
with really keeping the markets going,
people can buy and sell butter, cheese, whatever,
and it's not the golden, silver,
it's the top notch people in the armies.
That's very significant,
but the golden, silver, copper, but again,
striking that they use the menorah.
The menorah is another example of things
that change their meaning at a time,
because the menorah comes to be exclusively Jewish,
but it doesn't actually start out that way.
It has a very long history as well,
so I'm going to do it here as well, so.
Wow, there's so much.
I'd like to-
Keep on going, no tangency of reverence.
No, this is good though.
I'd like to talk about life,
what life was like under Umar,
and here we have a 10th century copy of a letter,
which is written by the head of the church of East,
Isho Yap, the third who died in 659 AD.
So let's look at that text here.
Yeah, so make out what that's-
No, here is the actual text itself.
For also these Arabs to whom at this time,
God has given control over the world,
as you know they are also here with us.
Not only are they no enemy to Christianity,
but they are even praisers of our faith,
honors of our Lord's priests and holy ones,
and supporters of churches and monasteries.
Indeed, how did your people of Mramne,
how do you pronounce that?
It's-
It's what the Syriac says.
Okay, abandon their faith on pretexts of the Arabs,
and this win as even the people of-
Yeah, you're coming in choppy.
Say it again.
Mramne.
Mramne?
Well, it's like just move on.
Say the Arabs did not force them to abandon their faith,
but only told them to abandon half of their possessions,
and to hold on to their faith,
but they abandoned their faith,
which is eternal,
and held on to half of their possessions,
which are ephemeral,
the faith that all the peoples have always bought
with the peril of their lives,
and through which they inherit their life.
Your people of, and I'm not gonna butcher it again,
did not even buy with half of their possessions.
Yeah, this is a bit of a double-edged sword, actually,
because it's used to say,
oh, look, the Muslims were very tolerant,
but of course, I expect you or I, if we say,
well, you only have to give me half of your possessions.
What?
I'd expect not to give you half of my possessions.
You could say that.
And I'm curious if this is accurate.
But anyway, it's an odd text that we don't,
it's unique, we don't know,
really for sure who it's applying to,
or what's going on.
They're a tool.
We don't actually know who the Maranoia are.
The usual explanation is that actually,
we should read it in Mazanoia,
and Mazon is one of the names of Oman in East Arabia.
So this was something specific to them,
perhaps because they were Arabs or Arabic speakers,
that there is a general trend in early Islamic texts
that has the idea that Arabs should all be Muslim.
There's quite a few texts, for example,
about a chief of the tribe of Talib,
who the Caliph Walid, around seven, 10,
tells him that you should convert to Islam
because you shame us all while you are an Arab,
not a Muslim.
There's a kind of idea that Arabs should convert to Islam.
Wow.
But we don't actually know this at all.
We have no idea for sure who he's talking about.
It's Sharia.
And it's not generally typical.
In a general way, the Muslim conquerors,
as many conquerors, you can't hope to conquer everyone
because you're a relatively small number
compared to the whole population.
So what you do is you make deals with people wherever you can.
This is a very ancient practice.
It's not something new.
And so you hand out peace treaties
that people agree not to fight against you,
but simply to surrender.
Then you give them a peace treaty
in which typically you respect.
Promise not to kill them, not to destroy their houses,
their holy places, and to let them keep their property
in return or paying taxes.
And so any young pre-modern army,
you don't have big missiles.
You can fire anything.
It's a bloody hard work.
You'll be able to crush every single city.
So you make deals.
It's a standard thing.
So interesting, Omar is the one who's connected with this.
The second aspect of actually all these accounts
of Omar meeting Saffronius is that Omar
gives an agreement to Jerusalem,
to the whole of Palestine.
And it's said to be the basis really,
or it's a model for agreements everywhere.
And it also says that people will have their lives
respected, their property, their churches, and so on.
So in a general way, yes, then you do see this,
general deals made with the subject population return.
They pay taxes.
They get everything respected, their lives and property.
But as I said, this one by Shaiyab is an unusual one
because it says half of their property
and that's certainly not what it did.
Nowhere else is this recorded
that people get on half their property.
You don't need to just pay taxes,
which is a certain percentage of their profits
or the yield on their harvests and so on.
So this is actually a token of art.
We don't know what lies behind it at all
because we don't know for sure
who the Maranoia are, what they did or whatever.
I would refer people to In God's Path, Dr. Hoylund's book.
If you wanna know more about that during, of course,
the, I'll call it the conquest and the continuation
of the growth of Islam and how they're creating treaties
and PACs.
And in fact, if it weren't for the people
in your book, you make this point,
like if it weren't for the people
that they were willing to protect,
to help feed, to help pay, to, you know, all these things,
I don't know how successful this conquest
would have been.
There are many close calls along the way for all sides.
So I really appreciate you taking the time to answer that.
Now, if I may, back to this,
our many in history attributed to Cebios,
you see this alliance with Persian and Jews,
and I wanna show that passage.
It says, then all the land of Palestine
willingly submitted to subjection to the Persian king,
especially the survivors of the race of Hebrews,
rebelling against the Christians
and embracing ancestral rankor caused great harm
among the multitude of the faithful.
They went to them, the Persians,
and made close union with them.
Continuing here, was the Persian alliance made
with the Jews the same kind that Muhammad made
as mentioned in Cebios and Doctrina Jacobi?
So they don't really mean Doctrina Jacobi.
Well, yeah, that's an interesting question.
So the Doctrina Jacobi mentions the Saracens
who come with the Jews or Jews who come with the Saracens.
It doesn't imply it's any sort of widespread alliance
rather than that some Jews have joined the Saracens.
But you could argue that,
and at the base of this,
I think anyone who was gonna get rid of the Byzantines
from the Jewish perspective, agreed people.
And some of them are gonna want to help
to make sure that that really happens.
So when there's either Persian armies or Arab armies,
some are likely to have joined in.
That's hardly surprising.
The question, I suppose, is whether,
because Cebios implies a bit more than that,
but it's a real joint venture, if you like,
to capture the Holy Land.
That, we're going more towards the idea
that we've been talking about that Stephen Schumacher
is proposing of a much more sort of apocalyptic venture
that actually capturing the Holy Land readiness
for the end of time, for judgment day,
if you like, but a much more joint venture.
I would doubt it was a joint venture,
and in neither case, the Persians or the Arabs,
I've imagined a number of Jews,
they're certainly hoping they're gonna get their freedom,
maybe have many apocalyptic expectations for sure.
But I think there's quite a big difference
from Jews joining the armies of the Persians and Arabs.
It's difficult on both occasions to be sure
what Persians and Arabs will be expecting.
For the Persians in particular,
I mean, they're probably just happy.
Inevitably, you're happy with allies.
If you're fighting a war, then that's great.
If you have extra allies and obviously in major wars,
I mean, for the British,
when they're fighting World War I,
one of the reasons for the declaration
of the Jewish homeland was actually part of it.
They were hoping the Jews would join them
just because they're out of press and fighting in Germany.
So any allies are great,
and it doesn't need to mean that the British
were definitely in some sort of apocalyptic venture
with the Jews, you know?
It just means that great people would support
when they're fighting some major war.
But it's certainly, I would definitely say
that there are Jews fighting alongside
both Persians and Arabs.
How much the Persians and Arabs themselves
are bothered by that, it's a different matter.
Wow.
Thank you for commenting on that.
I'm gonna show a few manuscripts here
to give people a taste.
So this right here is a Byzantine Arab Chronicle
from 741 A.D.
This is actually the 15th century copy, of course,
but it says a huge multitude of Saracens
brought together and invaded the provinces of Syria,
Arabia and Mesopotamia, holding principate,
sorry, over them was a man by the name of Muhammad, Muhammad.
And then here is another Chronicle from 775 A.D.
And it says here, let's see, says,
I'm sorry, says here we have a 10th century copy
of the Chronicle 775 A.D.
And it says in 930 of Alexander,
Heracles, or Heraclius, sorry,
and the Romans entered Constantinople,
and Muhammad went forth from the south
and entered the land and the subdued it.
We also find corroboration with the date of 930
and the inscription on the remains of the church
of St. Sergius and Ines in southern Turkey,
which just to give people Ines is at the top,
the arrow pointing at it.
And we see Dileppo down at the bottom here.
And I just kind of wanna give people, that's the map.
And then the church and inscription,
which is this right here to give people an idea.
This is the southeast angle of the church
of St. Sergius at Ines.
So that's pretty beat up and it's not the best photo.
But it says in the year 930, the Arabs came to the land.
So I could continue with some manuscripts
and then I'll just allow you to kind of comment
if you don't mind, is that this is a 15th century copy
of a text written in 950 A.D.
And it says, he ruled Damascus in Syria
and crossed the Jordan and dammed it up.
We also have a Samaritan Chronicle in Arabic,
which is a 12, or sorry, 1523 A.D. copy
of the original written in 1355, that is here.
And it says, the Ishmaelites, Muhammad and all his army
went forth to wage war against the Byzantines.
They conquered the land and defeated the Byzantines
and killed them as they fled before them.
And just summing up my thing,
and I'd love to have your thoughts,
is this means along with the manuscripts
in many of the interviews that I've done,
makes a total of nine spanning from Latin, Greek,
and Armenian all the way to the Syriac and Arabic community.
If you would be interested in seeing
the other manuscripts that actually show Muhammad
leading an invasion in the Holy Land,
be sure to check out my Steven J. Shoemaker interview.
Dr. Hoylan, all right, we have gone through quite a bit
and our time is restricted here,
but it's important to just recap.
What is the significance of Umar
and is there something probably to this whole thing
of him being a redeemer, a Messiah figure?
Do you think at the end of the day, I know you can't,
ha ha, we got it, the evidence is without a doubt,
but where do you subjectively in your opinion land
on this issue?
Do you think there's more going on?
So this is, people normally say,
if you really want an answer, don't ask an academic.
Just to give you many sides to the,
it's a tricky question.
Right.
So number one, I would say certain communities,
especially the Jewish, definitely thought of,
that they were living in apocalyptic times anyway,
and that the end of time was being brought about
by the movement of Muhammad,
Abu Bakr, Umar with Umar, you know, culmination
since he seems to have at least commissioned building
on the Temple Mount.
So for certain communities, yes, I would say,
Muhammad, Umar, might well have been seen
as some sort of messamic figure.
So when you get to the Muslim community,
I imagine it wouldn't be good to think of it
as totally uniform, the community.
And that there's also gonna be a huge difference
between those who were close to Muhammad and loyal to him.
That's way over in Mecca, Hejaz area.
And the large number of tribes in the Syria, Iraq area,
many of whom were Christian,
many well didn't, many ways we know didn't convert straight
away, so the movement.
And also many other groups join in,
as it proves very successful, the Arab Congress,
many other groups join in.
And for them, you can imagine that it might not be
such a key, the conquest of Jerusalem, Jerusalem itself
may not have been so key to them.
So there could have been more of a separation
between the inner core, Muhammad's own preaching,
followed by Abu Bakr and Umar, and he's in a core
who could easily have been influenced
by apocalyptic theory, apocalyptic thinking, sorry.
What, as you said, it would be great to have a session
on apocalypticism, because it is a great motivator.
You can see many movements in history
where that immense excitement and tension
caused by the idea that the end of time is near
has proved an amazing, you know,
gives enormous momentum behind many movements
for action in different ways.
So I could imagine it being held by those close
to Muhammad, Christ, Umar, that was an apocalyptic dimension.
And Umar, it's hard to see how he couldn't have got
intended the title-like photo, attached to his name,
in origin, you know, the earliest times
without there being some apocalyptic dimension to it.
The same with, you know, Beth Hamidash, Beth Tomatis,
and some, and at a very early time,
this is being applied to the temple, and so that's there.
And otherwise, it's also hard to think
why Jerusalem became so important to Islam.
If it's Mecca, if it's the Kaaba,
what the hell are they doing worrying about Jerusalem?
There has to have been some,
because it's not mentioned directly in the Quran,
so it's in some way, it's very important,
and it must be very early in that,
given that, you know,
Muslims are always happy to agree
that Jerusalem was the original Kibla.
They don't bother to say why exactly,
but they're happy to agree with it.
So there's something there, you know,
that Jerusalem, very early on,
are important to the Hamid to me.
And so you could see why in the temple,
that captured you for months,
well, the key to that.
Thank you so much.
Okay, for the moment.
I really appreciate it, thank you.
If you enjoyed this interview,
be sure to check the backstory to it
with James Howard Johnson interview on MythVision,
as well as Steven J. Shoemaker,
and never forget,
we are MythVision.
