Dennis, thank you again for joining me here on MythVision. Really appreciate your time.
I got a question from a Patreon member, Alex Kayarga. And forgive me if I butchered your name,
Alex. Thank you for the support. Anyone watching, consider joining. Does Dr. McDonald think that
Jesus was an apocalyptic prophet? And if the Q document supports this claim?
At last, a question about Q. Alex, thank you so much. That's the other part of my work that I
love so much. And I'm going to not say whether I think Jesus was an apocalypticist, because I think
that's a dangerous projection. But I think we can say that the Q document is, we can say that the
Gospel of Mark has apocalyptic elements. We can say that Paul has apocalyptic elements. So I think the
intellectual cradle of early Christianity must have something to do with apocalypticism.
And in the Q document, that apocalypticism is often articulated in terms of the Kingdom
of God. Hey, Basilea Tuteu. But you also have that in Paul, the Kingdom of God and so on. Flesh
and blood cannot inherit the Kingdom of God. Well, obviously, that's eschatological in some way.
And physical, metaphysical too. But I want to talk about how apocalypticism functions in the Q
document as you had articulated. And also to say that I think it probably reflects the historical
Jesus, even though I'm not willing to commit myself to not knowing any particular saying
that Jesus uttered in that way. To understand apocalypticism in the Q document, I think it's
important to understand that Jesus is making harsh demands on his 12 disciples and by extension
on the readers. And they can expect in their message of the Kingdom of God. And it's challenged
to typical Jewish theology and obedience to Torah that they are going to suffer. And so what is the
reward of this suffering? In the Q document, and this appeal comes from Jewish apocalypticism,
where the people who are persecuted, if they're persecuted for righteousness, will have eternal
rewards. And those who are venal or wicked will have punishments, is a way of encouraging people
to do what the author thinks is the right thing. In this case, the author's Jesus is saying that.
So in the same passage, which I think is very important in the Q document, Jesus says,
do not fear those who take you into synagogues and attest you for your fidelity to the Son of Man.
Don't fear those who can kill the body but cannot kill the soul. There will be a heavenly tribunal
for those who have died. And the Son of Man will serve as an arbiter before a jury of angels.
And those who have confessed faithfully for the Son of Man and the Holy Spirit
will be vindicated by the angels. And those who curse the Son of Man or deny the Son of Man,
but not the Holy Spirit, they're going to be okay too. But those who deny the work of the Holy Spirit
in the kingdom of God proclamation, they're going to be punished. And that kind of understanding
of judgment in the future certainly has its roots in apocalypticism. But curiously enough,
apocalypticism isn't unique to Jews. You have forms of apocalypticism also in the Greco-Roman world.
And where it's not so much as it's going to happen in an apocalypse, but there will be a judgment
after death and in a judgment of one's virtues or not. And this sometimes includes reincarnation.
So it's a huge topic. What I would say is that the cradle of the Christian movement seems to be
its alternative vision of a Judaism that is going to cause hostility. And those who remain faithful
to the vision of the new community will be rewarded with eternal life or the kingdom of
God or whatever. And those who are not would be in danger of damnation. And that's the kind of
dualism that is characteristic of apocalypticism. Ladies and gentlemen, be sure to sign up for
Dr. Dennis R. McDonald's Greek Mimesis in the New Testament course, Reading the Gospels with
One Eye on Greek Poetry. Dennis spends 18 lectures diving into several parallels, building up the
methodology to show you his methods and how he sees that the New Testament authors cleverly
rewrite and really make Jesus such a better figure than what we see in the older Greek myths
and their poetry. You can sign up today, own it for life. There are several hours, well over
eight hours of content in this course with 18 lectures. Dennis gives you so much to read and
look up and consider in investigating. Did the New Testament authors actually imitate the Greek
epics to write their narratives about Jesus? There's several reading recommendations,
additional resources. Under every single one of the lectures, you can download one through 18 on
mp3. In case you want to just download it and have it in your whatever the device might be in order
to work and listen at the same time, you don't have to just see it. But if you decide to watch
the content, it is all in 4K, extremely high quality content. As you can see.
You did it in from, we have a Greek lab. The audio is nice and loud, takes you through his
book and it takes a deep dive. Be sure to sign up today. I hope you will. This helps Dennis
McDonald and it helps educate the world on what's going on in scholarship.
