Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
If Jesus, let's go back to the primitive as much as we can, at least.
We have very limited evidence here, fragmentary, and there's the debate on
mythicism. You've got people like Dr. Richard Carrick or Dr. Price who think
there could be a celestial, a proto-celestial Jesus that gets you
haemorrhized rather than vice versa. If he was celestial, was he a god, or was
he an angel, kind of like the Michael Archangel figure? And in the other
version, the god version, would be kind of like was he a Yahweh, like Martin
Barker. Martin Barker takes the Yahweh approach, and the angel approach, of
course, you know, like Jehovah's Witnesses. Right, right, and others. For me,
personally, I would kind of ask, what's the difference? So you have something
interesting to happen. Look, you've got this weird polytheistic religion. You've
got Eleleon, and Balhadad, and Asherah, and everything else, right?
Zoroastrianism comes along, and they're convincing the Jews to switch over to
monotheism. That's almost certainly what happened, okay? Because they didn't really
care about the whole monotheistic thing until the Persians come along. After
that, they're making this drift toward monotheism, and within a few centuries,
there is one god, and that's it, you know? And everything else kind of becomes an
angel. And so, this, your chief god, Eleleon, you know, the creator, the God
Most High, who is Jesus's dad, and it's actually says that in Mark, you know,
someone's talking to him like, oh, you know, you, the son of El, you know, the son
of the Most High, and there's even a, when he's driving out the demons, the
demons recognize him as being the son of Eleleon. I mean, they name him. So, you
have this, right? And the Persians come along, and they're preaching their Ahura
Mazda, the one God, who is not only the Most High, he's omniscient, omnipotent,
omnipresent, which we never have Eleleon described as that until after the
Persians. You know, he controls everything, he made it all, he did it all, okay?
And, sounds like, don't really cut you, but Israelites always have to one up their
neighbor. Yeah, yeah. Like Dr. Heiser mentioned, I mentioned this earlier in
our other episode, Dr. Heiser mentioned, you know, look, they were out, they were
going against the Mesopotamian, they were making a better story, and they did the
same thing Dennis McDonald talks about this when he goes into the Homeric and
the Dionysian connections to the Gospels. Yeah. Jesus outdoes Odysseus and the
gods of the Odyssey, he outdoes the Dionysus, etc., etc. Right. It's classic
little dog syndrome. I mean, look, Israel is basically a crossroads, it doesn't have
much going for it, and all of your different empires in the region, you know,
the Assyrians, the Persians, the Babylonians, the Egyptians, if one of them
wants to go conquer the others, they have to conquer Israel first. And so, it
basically spent its entire existence being the property of someone else.
Actually, in my first episode about Abraham, I actually charted out year by
year, like 80-something percent of Israel's existence, it was the property of
a foreign government, okay? Constantly, okay? And, yeah. It wasn't because their
God was not strong enough, it's because they were sinning. Right, right. They
got to find a way to rationalize it, okay? But they got to get it
somewhere. Okay, yeah, well, we're actually better than them. Let's make up a
story for why we are. Now, Persia comes along. Now, Persia really was a big deal,
because Persia, they conquered everybody. The Babylonians, who had just conquered
Israel or Judah, yeah, the Persians came along and just mucked the floor with them,
took over Babylon, and by proxy, Judah. And this post-Babylonian period, like
540 BC and after. And Cyrus then went on to go and conquer Egypt. Cyrus was the
king of Persia, the king of Babylon, and the king of Egypt. I mean, do was a big
deal. He was called the king of kings. And he, because... He was, he is named in the
Old Testament, Yahweh himself comes down, points to Cyrus the Great, a Persian who
worships Ahuramazda and says, you are my Messiah. What? You know, and they're like,
look, all these great things, yeah, yeah, look, none of that holds a candle to this
Persian, dude. That tells you what the Old Testament authors thought about Persia. I
mean, they were all about their second temple. He's the guy who paid for it. The
second temple exists because Persia built it. You know, the Babylonians had
destroyed it in like 586 BC. It was gone. It was rubble. The end. Persia comes along
50 years later, pulled out his checkbook, wrote a fat check, new temple, and heavily
influenced their theology in the process. Now, this happens and Zoroastrianism,
which I don't know how familiar you are with it, but this is the oldest
monotheistic religion that is still in existence. I mean, if you are part of a
monotheistic religion today, it probably came from Zoroastrianism. Now, it has the
great One High God, Ahuramazda, but it came out of the Indian religions, the
Vedic religions that had like thousands of deities. What do you do with these
others? You know, like Mithra, that's where Mithra came from. He's from India.
And that's how he got to Israel, was through Persia. They loved the Zoroastrians.
They loved Mithra, but he wasn't a God. They made him into a divine spirit, an
angel. The whole concept of angels and guardian angels and archangels, the whole
multi-tiered angel theology, that comes from Persia. That's interesting. The great
embodiment of evil of Satan, that's Araman the Opposer, which translated into
Hebrew is Araman HaSatan. Oh no, Satan. Wait, we've got this old guy, this angel,
sort of a prosecutor. Well, the names kind of match up. Let's turn him into this
great evil. And so that comes along, and that's where, eventually, by the time you
have Christianity, they have this idea that this Satan that actually worked for
Yahweh is now working against him. And he's almost as powerful. They're locked
in this struggle that lasts thousands of years, you know, which doesn't make sense
if he's just a lackey. I mean, why don't Yahweh just fire the dude, you know?
Now he's in unemployment. But instead, they're like battling that comes from
Zoroastrianism. They were almost on equal footing. Ahura Mazda was the only God.
But Araman was almost like an evil twin who was almost as powerful, and he's
responsible for all the corruption of the earth. But we're talking about angels.
So when the Israelites get this idea, well, they start mapping it on instantly.
So they take El Elian, the God most high, and he gets merged with Ahura Mazda.
Suddenly, El Elian, who used to just be like the Jewish version of Zeus, is now
omniscient, omnipresent. He knows everything. He can do everything.
You know, he just spoke the world into existence. He didn't have to put it
together. He just said it and it happened. That's how powerful he is. He can do
anything. You know, he could make a mountain so heavy he couldn't lift it
and then lift it anyway. That's how powerful he is. He is Ahura Mazda. We're
just changing the name. Now what do they do with all their other gods? Because, I
mean, they were Canaanites. There's no real difference between Israelites and
Canaanites. It's just a difference in time, you know? Well, they had like at least
70 gods in their pantheon. I mean, El Elian had a wife named Asherah. Bal, or Yahweh,
had a wife named Anat, who look up Anat. She was a badass. But Anat was hardcore.
Like, you see the things of, uh, was it Shiva? Well, she has like all the
scimitars and she has like a waistband and it's like severed human hands and
she has like a necklace of human skulls. Interesting. Well, instead of having
six arms, just give her two arms and instead of being blue, give her a tan.
You've got a knot. She runs around with a pair of swords, just killing people by
the thousands. I think it's interesting to note, though, with what you described
about the gods, because if you went from polytheism, just a side note. I don't want
to ravage up too hard because I know we can do that. Oh, I'm actually about to go.
I think where you're going. So this, they, you are saying in a sense they demote
them from being deities on equal footing or even having some tiered ranked
deities that kind of are up there with the God that they choose to be most
supreme. Right. They, they demote them to spirit beings where they work in a sense
or they are under the power or have the most supreme and therefore kind of try
to make it seem like, look, they can go by gods, the term gods, but they're really
not God. They, they're, they're just higher tiered forms than, than kings, but
they're, they're demoted from a God status, if you will. Right. And so the Bible
did the same thing with the mass of Tamians, the same thing. Right. And I don't
think they really demoted them. They were already lesser beings. You had Eleon.
Right. And then you had all the gods beneath them in this nice little
descending rank. This has changed the name. Oh, well, this isn't a lesser God
named Baal or Yahweh or Asherah or Mithra or whatever. This is an angel who
does the exact same thing. And so I think what they did was they remained
polytheistic even to this day. And Eleon remains the God most high. And these
others, they just got renamed angels. I mean, Michael the Archangel, that's a war
God. I mean, just look at him. He's got a shield. He's got a spear. He's always
like fighting stuff. It's a war God. You know, you look at any of them. These are
gods. They just renamed them the same way. The exact same format that was used by
the Persians when they took all these different Indian gods like Mithra. Oh,
he's not a God. He's an angel. What does he do? The exact same stuff. Oh, okay. You
just, it's like when the Romans, they took the Greek gods and they just
renamed them all. That's what they did with this term. The highest God who's a
God. And then you have the gods beneath it. And we're going to call those angels.
Oh, I see. And Yahweh was one of those angels or one of those gods. He was the
God Baal Haddad. You know, this was their war and grain God. And he basically
serves the same purpose. Actually, in the Eucharistic manuscripts, Baal gets
renamed Yahweh in one of these texts that's like 3,500 years old. Okay, this
is, this drastically predates Judaism. Actually, the Hebrew language didn't
exist yet. Right. Okay. And this God Baal, who is identical to Yahweh, gets
renamed Yahweh. Eleleon renames him. I think it's like, he's talking about him
and he says like, from this day, you shall be called Yah. And it's like, Oh,
crap. It's the same guy. Okay. Now, they want to become monotheistic. They only
want one God. Well, what do you do with all the other gods that you have? Do you
throw them out? No. I mean, some of them they did. Sure, like Asherah, they kicked
her to the curb. You know, Shamash, you know, they, I think some of them kept
Asherah, but that's a whole different thing. But Shamash, they renamed him
Samson. You know, they took these different gods. Some of them got renamed
and cast as people, but they kept the stories. Some of them like Yahweh, they
didn't want to get him. He was their patron God. Well, they just said, Oh, he's not
a God. He's an angel. And then later, he gets merged with Eleleon. And they start
climbing. Well, El and Yahweh are actually the same. And don't read Deuteronomy 32
eight, because that'll contradict what I just said, but they're really the same.
Just trust me. You know, and so when El is talking to Yahweh, just ignore that
part. And so I think that what happened was later on. Christianity comes around.
They've had this idea of this, this angel, this archangel, you know, who's like
Michael, who fills this, this role called the metatron, which we see Melchizedek,
Michael, Enoch and several others all fill this role. These are all angelic
figures. I mean, Enoch literally transforms into an angel in the Book of
Parables. And in this, this role, we see Yahweh is also in this role. And he
basically gets recast as Jesus. And then the same way that Shamash was placed
into history as Samson, we see Yahweh placed in history as Jesus. And so at one
point, he was a God named bald. And later he was a God named Yahweh. And later, he
was an angel named Yahweh. And then that angel was merged back with Eleleon to
make a really big God. And then he kind of, with the Christians, they kind of
went back. They went with that older idea that El and Yahweh were still two
different things. And this Yahweh is Jesus. And that, that's what I think's
going on.
You say Barker, are you definitely on the Barker side of things?
Yeah, I think she's closer to it. And I mean, like, if you read the text, I mean,
it says, like in Mark, that Jesus's dad is Eleleon. Okay, then who the hell are we
talking about? Who is this guy? And you read Enoch. Well, that's Yahweh. The son
of man is Yahweh. It's this, it's this heavenly being that this, who sits on his
own throne the same way that Balhada does after he defeats the chaos dragon and
sins into heaven the same way Marduk does, you know, on and on and on and on. And
then he basically comes down, serves as like this intermediary. You actually see
this spelled out explicitly in a first century Christian book called The
Ascension of Isaiah, in which Yahweh, in the form of Jesus, descends through the
different layers of heaven, shedding his angelic, sort of his angelic nature and
becoming more and more mortal until he gets down to the realm of the firmament,
so the sky. And at that point, he is now put on the flesh of a human being and
he's in the skies. And the angels up there, the demons, the sky demons, they
don't know that, that he's Yahweh, that he's Jesus. They just think that he's a
man who's up in the sky. And so they capture him and they crucify him, which is
a trap, because that's the way that he could basically serve as this sacrifice
so that his blood could purify the entire universe. If they knew who he was,
then they wouldn't have killed him. And so he hid. And then all this happens and
he reassins up through the ranks and then takes the throne. Exactly the way we see
with Jesus, only in the Jesus story, he comes all the way down to earth. But we
see another little similar thing, because in the Gospels, Jesus is in the garden.
Now he's the most popular man in the land. Everyone knows, like literally people,
they see him on the streets and they instantly recognize him, right? People,
they see him walking and they'll run up and touch his robes and absorb his power.
Everyone knows who he is. He's walking down the road and some random dude comes up,
hey, my kid just died. Can you come bring him back to life-forming? Everyone knows who he is.
But then when they go to arrest him, they have to get Judas to point him out,
because none of the people in charge recognize him. Weird. That detail makes no
sense. He's the most popular man in the city. Like before he even showed up,
people were gathering awaiting his arrival and throwing down palm leaves, you know?
It makes no sense that suddenly they couldn't recognize him, unless this is a retelling
of what was supposed to have happened in the heavens, where the people who ambush him and
crucify him don't recognize him because he's in disguise. And I think that's where that detail
comes from. That's why they have to be like, ah, let's make this guy betray him. And then he'll
go and point him out so people can find out who he is. It's also, you know, significant to see
a memetic connection to Old Testament, too, where it's likely some of these pictures, like in the
America Odyssey situation, you have him being disguised as a beggar by the God. You're looking
in the Old Testament with Joseph. Joseph, he gets captured and he literally gets sold in
the slavery by his brother Judah, which is Judas, if you take a parallel here. But what's funny about
that and all of that, the whole not recognizing him, he's now an Egyptian. They think he's dead.
And here he is in Egypt, and they don't even know that their own brothers playing tricks on them
by capturing Benjamin, the youngest, and saying, you need to go get your father. Because I think
you guys did steal this gold he planted in their grain when they came to get food. So he's like
disguised the whole time and they don't even realize it. So I think there's a narrative being
played, and it's like a myth type thing. And I think a lot of people don't see the myth archetype.
It doesn't have to be one source necessarily. I'd love to find the genetic connection. This is
the exact, but it could be a combination of a myth type archetype thing here that's being utilized,
because all these mythologies are using the non-recognition of the of the God figure.
He's not just a regular guy. That's the point you're trying to say is, is that no matter what you
say, you can disagree with his conclusion and say, oh, Simpson of Isaiah, I don't believe that.
The point is, he's not a recognized being usually in these myth archetypes, he's divine,
and that's the significance. Here he's in disguise and no one knows who he is, you know, and this is
very important. And you you point out the whole story with Joseph. The parallels between Joseph
and Jesus do not end there. I mean, Joseph gets thrown down into this pit, he's down there for
three days, then he comes out, he's linked with these bread offerings and all this grain. I mean,
we could do an entire video just about the links between Jesus and Joseph.
I think Joseph and Joshua and Jesus are all historic retellings of stories about Yahweh.
I think the same thing about Jonah. And I mean, if you notice, they all have very similar names.
They are actually, these are names that are actually based on the name Yahweh. These are all
theophoric names. And if you take those characters and you outline their stories and you put
Joseph, Joshua, Jonah, and Jesus, and you put them side by side, these are just retellings of the
same story. You know, the similarities between those four are like the similarities between the
canonical Gospels. That's why a lot of people think there's astrotheology in it because they
are retellings. Oh, it's full of it. Yeah, but I mean, there's some people, and it's just my opinion,
that make it only. Like they're like, you're missing it. It's all just astrotheology. No,
I don't think it's one thing. No, I think it's, I don't think anything in the Bible is that simple.
Right. I think the majority of it is multi-layered. There are little cultural things. There are things
that come from other people's cultures. There are historic things. It's like, oh, this is part of
our folklore. So it gets added into the astrotheology. Oh, here's a story from our enemies that we
really like. Let's bring that in. You know, I don't think it's one thing. And I think if you go
into any Bible story and you think that this is one thing, you're probably starting off on the
wrong foot because I don't think anything in the Bible is that simple. Since you've concluded that
angels and whether he's a god or an angel, practically are the same thing. And I think
Dr. Heiser in his recent book, the reason why I keep quoting him is because I just read some
about him. You know how he's going to read a book. He makes a case to show that in the Greek,
when the Septuagint was translated, angelos, you know, angels was literally there as a translation
using for Elohim even. So it's like, why are you using angelos to messengers with Elohim? And
they meant it the same way Elohim is used in Hebrew. So it's like, nothing's changed there. But
since he's the same thing either way, angel or god, he is the same thing. Have you ever heard
of the theory that Yahweh himself, now euhemerization, euhemerus claimed that most of these gods were
once men and mythologized? Right. Have you ever heard the story or the idea that Yahweh was a man
who was mythologized before? Have you ever heard of that? No, not with Yahweh, with other gods like
Dionysus and things like that. I've heard it with film. I haven't seen anything where someone
claimed that. Yahweh was originally like a folk hero. Right. But what's funny is, if you look at
some of the stories of say, Joshua, and you go back and you read the stories of Bal, there are
some similarities. I think that the story of Bal grew. And sometime after the Bronze Age collapsed,
the story of Bal became the story of Yahweh. And this eventually became, some of these stories
became historicized and became the story of Joshua. And so I think in that case, it definitely worked
in the opposite direction that it started as a god and became a man. And I think that Joshua actually,
his story basically got an Egyptian spin off and that became the story of Moses,
which that's an entirely separate video. We must do more. Yes, we will.
But yeah, I think this was a popular folk story and they enjoyed telling it so much that they just
kept retelling it in different ways. And that's where you get Joseph and Joshua and Moses and
Jonah and Jesus, or basically anyone else with a J name that's in the Bible.
