Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Thank you again for letting me come back today and continue this.
Was the book of Revelation written by John on the island of Patmos a heretic?
Was he a heretic?
And there were debates for centuries about this book in the early church.
Going back and forth, yeah it should be a no, it shouldn't, and various reasons we've
discussed in the previous episode as to why someone will want to use it, but can you go
into this character, why they saw him as a heretic, and maybe some of the details that
really red flagged him to say this doesn't belong?
It's a very good question.
How do you know that someone who makes a prophecy is speaking from God, so to speak, a true prophecy?
Well, the criteria when you look at the prophets of Jeremiah and Isaiah and Daniel, is does
what they say is going to happen, does it happen?
So if you say, well, we're in a war now, and we're going to win the war, then after the
war they say, alright, well Derek said we're going to win, and he was right, so he's a
true prophet, or he said we were going to win and we lost, so he's a false prophet.
So Jeremiah's book is put in the Hebrew scriptures, and Isaiah's book in Daniel's, because these
were judged to have been prophets who said what would happen inspired by the Lord because
they were right in their predictions.
So the book of Revelation is John of Patmos's prophecy.
What is going to happen?
How will God deal with the enemies of the Jewish people destroying the holy city and
killing his people and devastating the holy land of Israel?
Well John said he's going to come in and destroy Rome.
He will come in, and the Son of Man will come with the angelic army, and the end will come,
and we will be vindicated, Jerusalem will be restored, and Rome will be utterly vanquished.
Well that didn't happen.
That didn't happen.
Roman Empire continued, and not only that, an emperor of the Roman state became a Christian.
So is he a true prophet?
Some people said no.
I mean, what he said would happen is the opposite of what actually happened.
And so he's a false prophet and a heretic, and as you said, this is the most debated
book in the whole New Testament canon.
In the third century, Bishop of Egypt, Bishop Dionysius, carefully looked at the book and
said, did the author of the Gospel of John really write this?
And he went through and analyzed the literary style of the book of Revelation and said,
they're written, it seems, by different people because John of Patmos writes in a kind of
languages, though his native language is Aramaic or Hebrew, and whoever wrote the Gospel
of John is fluent in Greek.
Revelation's written in Greek, but it's written by somebody who doesn't know Greek very well.
So he said, there are many clues here that these are different authors, that it wasn't
the disciple John who wrote it.
But he said, I do think it's a true prophecy.
And there were others in Egypt who said, no, it's a totally false prophecy.
So battles went on about this book.
And it was only about 300 years after the book of Revelation had been written that another
Bishop of Egypt, now in a Christian empire, said, well, it's a true prophecy, but only
if you read it metaphorically.
Because he said, look, it's about the beast, and the beast is the enemies of Orthodox
Christianity, and the forerunner of the beast is the emperor who supports the wrong party
of Christians, and we are going to win in the end.
So Athanasius, Bishop of the great city of Alexandria, said, well, the beast and the
whore, the beast is heresy, and the whore are the enemies who support heretical views
that aren't Orthodox.
But we are God's people, we are the Orthodox, and we are going to win.
So just reinterpret it metaphorically, and it's a fine prophecy.
And he is the one person out of five.
We have lists of what should be in the New Testament.
And the book of Revelation was on the list of the books that we recognize, and it was
also on the books that many people hated.
These are bad books.
Athanasius put it on the books that are accepted, because it fit his understanding when he read
it metaphorically.
So that's how it got into the New Testament, and it's been there ever since.
And many people said, well, Martin Luther said there's no Christ in it, but nevertheless
it's a powerful book, and it's compelling, and it speaks to many people about the force
of good overcoming forces of evil.
So it can not only be an incitement to war, which it often has served as.
It can also be a hope for people who are oppressed.
For example, during the time of slavery, abolitionists said those who stand under the throne of God
and say, how long, oh Lord, how long before you judge and avenge our blood on the people
of the earth, that those are the people who were enslaved, and that God will free them.
So you find in, say, African-American churches many songs about twelve cities, twelve gates
to the city, hallelujah.
The book of Revelation for people reading it as people who were anticipating the freedom
from slavery, read the book of Revelation in African-American churches in spirituals,
in preaching, as a great book about God liberating his people from slavery.
And that's why it's been a source of hope to a lot of people.
I find it interesting too.
We talked about yesterday in the Gnostic Gospels about Irenaeus and the persecution that continued
under Roman control.
It continued for a few centuries at least before it becomes something where we're like,
right, enough in the third century, let's stop, we need to stop this.
And they're using that whole vindication, blood of the saints, she's thirsty with the
blood of the saints, that's Rome in its original context, and I think it's interesting how
that can fit.
And it doesn't seem like it's too far of a stretch in Irenaeus' mind.
Well, we know Rome is the problem.
Look at how they're treating us Christians.
Look at the persecution that's happened here.
That's exactly right.
I mean, as long as Christians were a persecuted minority, they had to hide, and they had to
hide their identity as Christians, because if it came out in court and they said, are
you a Christian?
And you say, yes.
They say, all right, torture him until he's completely bloody, and then crucify him or
cut his head off or whatever.
So as long as that happened, and Irenaeus is living in about the year 160 to 180, it's
maybe 80 to 100 years after the book of Revelation is written.
And he said, yeah, we know who the whore is.
We know who the beast is.
That is the bloody empire of Rome.
And it was a bloody empire.
It was a cruel, ambitious empire, and absolutely ruthless to anyone suspected of treason toward
Rome.
And Christians were that.
And they used this.
So Irenaeus said, yes, that book is about us.
He saw 22 of his own people from his own communities tortured to death in hideous ways in the public
sports arena.
It was a day of entertainment for the Romans.
I wonder if he understood that Nero was the beast.
Maybe he still saw that the lineage of this was continuing under Nero's being the head
of that or something.
Because I heard, and maybe you can correct me on this, I heard there was a possible kind
of a prophecy in this prophecy of tradition from the church that either to mission or
Nero would be resurrected and that there was this doom like, watch out, he's coming back.
That's right.
That's right.
I most hear it about Nero.
It says that the beast had seven heads and one of the heads was wounded, but it survived.
Now that is usually understood to be a story about how Nero was denounced by his own people
and he was killed or thought to be killed, but some people said he wasn't killed.
He escaped.
They thought he hadn't committed suicide, that he'd escaped to another part of the
empire in hiding and that he was going to come back.
So the wounded head of the beast that returns was understood to be Nero coming back alive
again.
And yes, that would be a very likely interpretation by anyone living under that ruthless empire.
Within the first couple hundred years.
Absolutely.
Wow.
And that was something I think they did think.
Yes.
It was only after Constantine, and that's 150 years after Irenaeus, that they said, wait
a minute, Rome wasn't destroyed, Rome has become Christian, what do you make of that?
So maybe this isn't the right prophecy, but of course the book can be read so many ways.
And Derek, I thought it so appeals to the imagination and the emotions that it's always
been a very powerful book and it still is.
That fits exactly why Athanasius metaphorically interprets it and then it still is used after
we see the Rome turns Christian.
So now Rome turns Christian, we don't throw out the book, the book's part of the canon.
In fact, we just reinterpret it and that's it and they have a new understanding.
And then later on, new traditions arise out of Christendom that use it to support whatever
their prophecy might be.
That's really, it's just an interesting thing that you're bringing up.
It makes me think on so many different levels, you know.
Well you spoke about the mark of the beast.
It's hard to tell exactly what that means.
I mean, it says of course in Revelation that you have to have this marker, you can't buy
or sell in the evil city, which is probably about authorization, you know, to be a tradesperson
in Rome.
But of course it can always be read about any oppressive government that requires utter
control and domination over its citizens.
And the way that these do, I mean to this day it's China, for example, with enormous
surveillance on all of its citizens.
If you cross the street the wrong way, they can see that you did it and they have ways
to track people.
So you can read the mark of the beast as the mark of any tyrannical oppressive government.
I've also heard, and I don't know if this is something you're like aware of or maybe
you can comment on, that the mark on the right hand, which is significant, that it wasn't
on the left, on the right, because the right hand was kind of a hebraic symbol for I'm
going to do good.
And then the forehead is where you would keep the oracles of God or understanding God's
word and such, that this mark on your right hand or your forehead from the beast, which
means of Rome, is this idea that you're kind of a turncoat or you're compatible with this
and you're kind of doing, oh yeah, I'm going with the flow, but you're neglecting the very
place where you would hold God's word.
You kind of get that.
Certainly it's a sense of betrayal of God, right?
Certainly it's a sense of collusion with evil.
Whatever else it means, it means that you're colluding with an evil dominating power that
is hostile to God.
And it almost seems like he's kind of provoking the idea by saying, be a martyr because he'll
vindicate you.
It kind of gives that, I'm not saying he's saying go die tomorrow, but it seems like
you should resist this.
But in fact, in the book of Revelation, I mean John of Patmos knew of people who had
been arrested and beheaded and killed because they were Christians or followers of Jesus.
And so yes, he certainly felt a martyr is somebody who's a winner.
He or she loses life, but wins because the person has not given in to the most terrifying
force, which is the fear of death, and says, I will deal with death because I have faith
in God, and so that person wins because the power that will ultimately win the battle
of forces of good and evil is the power of God.
One more thing, and then this is so amazing.
It seems like, well, I went in my head and went out the other side, I literally just
lost it.
It will come back.
Yeah, it will come back.
I'm really fascinated with this whole idea.
The question I had had to do with John writing in what time, and let's play the 8096 time.
Domission is emperor.
Domission from what I understand, there are historical sources that purport that he was
persecuting, Jews, but mainly Christians from what I understand.
Jews who followed Jesus, we think.
And it could be his name, that's the name of the beast, but yes, there are traditions
that there were people in the imperial court, perhaps slaves in the imperial court, who
were Jews, but they also followed Jesus, and that they were put to death by Domission.
And he was known to have been addressed as Dominus Ateus, Lord and God.
And so when John of Patmos speaks about Lord and God, he's saying, you can't call him
Lord and God.
It is Jesus who is Lord and God of the universe, and he's going to triumph over this empire
that right now seems totally, you know, indomitable.
Wow.
Thank you so much.
