Music
Music
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I have a pleasure or treat for you today, if you will.
Dr. Robert G. Hoyland, welcome back to MythVision.
How are you, my friend?
Great.
Nice to talk to you again, Derek.
You as well.
For those, let's get right into the business.
Check out his books.
One God's path in particular is the one that you can get on Audible, so if you're on a
trip and you want to listen like I did all the way to Texas, you can listen to the book.
I highly recommend it.
One of the interesting things I highlighted early on was, a lot of people will argue,
Islam was the fastest growing across the world and it's somehow evidence to prove this is
ontologically true.
You're like, well, actually, there were these Mongolians, by the way, and that's a whole
another thing that kind of went, ooh, this is interesting because the Mongolians conquered
actually quicker and wider.
However, they didn't have an ideology that ended up spreading the same way.
So there's so much historical context, Arabia and the Arabs are Arabs.
I don't know how to pronounce this properly because I'm a redneck and I came from the
south.
So I always go Arab.
We always talk about the Arab stores and stuff like that where all the people who are from
the Middle East own these stores.
So anyway, please get his works.
If you're interested in a historical evaluation on Islam and its origins, I highly recommend
it.
Do you want to comment about your books briefly?
Just making the Islamic soul making is a very different sort of book.
Absolutely.
Go for the fighting, I suppose.
You also have an academia page.
I hope everybody goes and checks that out as well.
And then, of course, for those of you who are seeing this right now, you're probably
watching this early.
This is on MythVision's Patreon, so I always like to give you early access to everything
we work on here at MythVision.
Please help support us.
I've done stuff with Robert, or with, sorry, Crossin, John Dominic Crossin.
So I just did some interviews with John Dominic Crossin.
I've just done one with Andrew Henry on Jesus the Magician, where we kind of go after Morton
Smith's ideas, what was right and what he got wrong.
Also Delcey Allison Jr., James D. Tabor, other academics that I've been working with.
What was the coin Jesus was talking about when he said Render and Deceaser?
Well, it was probably a Greek coin, not a Latin one.
Latin was not as common and it wasn't the lingua franca.
Anyway, go check out MythVision's Patreon, help support us so we can get that education
out there to the broader public.
I truly appreciate everybody.
Dr. Hoylan, let's dive in if you don't mind.
I must admit, before we begin, I want to give a special shout out to the ghost of MythVision.
You know who you are.
This is our fifth one.
We've worked on together and I look forward to working with you more, my friend.
Today we're going to be talking about a little book written by Patricia Crone in 1987 called
Meccan Trade and the Rise of Islam.
And for those who don't know who Patricia Crone is, here is a short clip.
First, this is the image of the book and an image of her rest in peace.
I wish she was still alive.
I would have interviewed her.
She would have been annoyed by me by now because I probably would constantly be harassing her
with emails.
This is a short clip we're going to play.
There is a curtain as regards to Muhammad that you can't get behind.
What do we know about him and his life?
Ah, well, we know that he existed.
We know that he was active somewhere in Arabia.
We know that he's associated with the book, the Quran.
He was the one who uttered it.
But it doesn't get us to what actually happened, which is what, of course, a historian would
like to reconstruct.
We have absence of evidence.
We have the Quran and you can't tell the story of the basis of the Quran.
We have various early non-Muslim sources.
They don't add up to a story.
We have nothing.
We have this sort of, this one book out of a nothing that's complete darkness.
Well, that was quite an interesting clip, everybody.
There she is.
Go get her book.
Also, if you're interested in diving a little bit further, I would check out the Steven
Shoemaker interview that we did here at MythVision.
The link is in the description box below, so make sure you watch that to get acquainted
with Steven's arguments.
But Dr. Whelan, what did she mean by we have nothing?
We have this one book out of nothing.
There is complete darkness.
Well, it's a bit of a fighting about Muhammad, his lifetime, his period, because the Muslim
sources that we can, everything depends how much faith you have in them, but the actual
texts that we could pick up in your manuscripts and hold start in the eight twenties, two hundred
years after Muhammad is active.
Obviously, if you're happy with the fact that they've been transmitted accurately, then
you do have good sources, but Patricia wasn't.
She did not accept that we have sources for those two hundred years.
And then otherwise, you have non-Muslim sources that they didn't have access into Arabia.
Muhammad wasn't important to them, to the big empires at the time, so they don't say
anything really about Muhammad.
When they do start talking later about Muhammad, they're getting it from Muslims.
So it's not a, they're not, they don't ever weigh in to Muhammad's lifetime directly.
They are still interesting because, so for example, a guy called John Bar Pankai, he's
a monk up in what is now Southeast Turkey, quite near the Iraqi border, beautiful, actually
monastery overlooking the Tigris River.
He's writing in the six eighties, so actually not so long afterwards, but he himself doesn't
have access to what Muhammad was doing, but he's able to talk to Muslims in the six eighties.
So that's interesting.
He says about Muhammad being a lawgiver.
So that's interesting.
Little bit of insight, but it's tiny.
So it's still difficult to reconstruct a big story.
And the other odd thing really for the period is we don't have archaeology for Muhammad's
Mecca Medina, though, well, I say odd, it isn't really odd.
It's just because the Saudis don't allow excavation in that area, especially Mecca.
They dump vast amounts of concrete for many times expanded mosque.
So we have no archaeological material either.
So that's where what she means by the darkness.
As I say, some people who believe in the Muslim sources are very well
transmitted, although we can believe the biography of Muhammad that we have
from first written, not first written down, but the first evidence we have of it in the eight
twenties.
That might be for another episode with you.
Yeah, because this is a whole question.
And I love the question on the historical Jesus, because right out the gate, people
who favored the guy, like I tell stories about my own biological father, who's still alive.
You might think this guy's Iron Man by the time I'm done telling you about him.
But honestly, he's a human retired Green Beret.
But let me tell you, he once flew.
I mean, I might tell you a story where you're like, Mike Lambert.
Man, this guy was something different.
And it doesn't mean that I'm lying.
I mean, he really is one of those guys who walks into a room and it glows.
Everybody knows who he is.
He has a certain what what my grandfather at his funeral, a random guy
walked in to give you an example, the kind of person that he was.
My father's dad, they walked in and they went up to the eulogy and said, Paul Lambert,
I met him at the male place in 1970, something.
I can't forget the day. It was on a Wednesday.
Like, he knew the day and he said, but he had it.
And then he paused and he said, I don't know what it is, but he had it.
And it was like everybody's hairs on their arms stood up.
Point is, Muhammad must have probably had an impact on people at the time.
And I'd love to travel through that with you at some point on
how do we parse through this, possibly embellished,
but also possibly kernels of history in the Muslim sources
and how can we find out what's reliable?
That's a whole other can of worms.
But I did want to ask you about this book that she has,
Mech and Trade in the Rise of Islam.
If you don't mind, what is this book about and what was the reaction to it?
Yeah, it's kind of a sentimental thing for me actually thinking about it
because she was writing it at the time I was a student in the mid 80s
in Oxford and being taught by her as a 18 year old.
So it was very amazing to portray it very much as a it was a puzzle.
You know, how do we find out about Mecca?
We have this bits and pieces of information.
How do we put it together?
It's the sort of book.
It's a bit like my in God's path one where you write it for students
because you've got a bit tired about having to teach this very set story
that really just isn't true and it's horrible to teach what you know is not true.
So she wrote this because as a reaction to a prevailing theory
that Mecca was at the center of a big commercial trading network
trading in high value goods like spices and in frankincense, no, that sort of thing.
And this is just simply not true.
It isn't actually the fault of the Muslim sources, which didn't say it either.
It was actually goes back really to a French Jesuit scholar,
Henri Lamont, who connected two rather different things.
There is there was a trade in frankincense, Merse Bices.
Frankincense grows in southern Arabia.
Amazing stuff, burn it.
You can get sent wonderful stuff.
And if you think of a world world without detergent, deodorants and things like that,
then wow, this is good stuff.
You know, you can you're probably a bit smelly
when you wake up in a pre-modern world morning,
but burn a little bit of incense, stab it round about and smell lovely.
So as Herodotus said, elite women of Iran and Rome,
they loved it and they'd all just as soon as sprayed all over themselves.
So it's high value stuff.
And then Lamont is also looking at an interpretation of some verses in the Quran
where they talk about a journey, two journeys in the summer and winter.
That's all it says that the Muslim Quran commentators say,
oh, well, it's the journey from Yemen to the north Mediterranean Palestine area.
And then he says, ah, so what they were training.
There was this frankincense and Mer, and it went through Mecca.
So it must have made them incredibly wealthy
because they had this they could take part in this train.
But it just simply isn't true.
And that's the first thing that Patricia Kroner says in this book.
We have to separate out these two things.
One, this trade never passed through Mecca, even when it was overland,
because Mecca is not really on an obvious trade route going north south.
But also because once people have managed to work out how to sail,
use the trade winds that go along the Indian Ocean,
which are very difficult because they blow one way for a couple of months
and then they blow the other way for a couple of months.
So you're very at the mercy of the trade winds.
But once they've worked out how to harness them and use them,
then most trade is going by sea.
So it's going up the Red Sea, not on overland through anywhere near Mecca.
So they need to be separated out.
The whole thing about Mecca being this, you know, amazing
center of a commercial trade network just doesn't make any sense.
Two places I give you that are centers like that, Petra, Palmyra.
When the first Europeans went to Petra and Palmyra in 1700s,
wow, you can see these huge wide classical streets, columns everywhere,
fantastic temples and Greek theaters and amazing buildings.
And the first Europeans to Mecca.
So before anybody had like tidied up or done anything there,
there's nothing like that, not a single column is around.
So it just never could have been that sort of place like Petra and Palmyra.
So that's where Petra just starts to demolish the old theory
about what this idea of Mecca is a great trading place.
Then she starts to put it back and think about what could Mecca trade have been.
And there she points out that the actual Muslim sources
don't actually say that it was a huge trading place, trading in luxury goods.
But actually it was trading in things like leather products,
glass, quite low level stuff.
So actually this is the case where Muslim sources don't need to be blamed.
It was actually European scholars making incorrect linkages.
What was the reaction to this this work that she published?
Did she get a negative reaction overall from the Muslim world?
Or like was it kind of a because I think there's also as you painted that picture
for European interpretations of these things, you know,
I would also suggest, as you know, for the audience, though,
is a lot of Muslims today, modern Muslims, aren't interpreting things
the same way people, let's say, in the medieval period were interpreting things.
So was there a negative backlash to this to her publication?
So there was, but not for the trade part so much.
Well, so you always have to separate out what scholars
and the broader public are thinking about for scholars,
they might have been more interested in the details of trade and so on.
But for the broader public, and especially the Muslim public,
it's the second part of her argument.
So she's there's two things here, Mecca as trading center, Mecca as pilgrimage center.
Often those get linked and the traders did pilgrimage as well,
which is possible.
But here is where the more controversial bit is for a Muslim in that she says
that Mecca can't really have been a pilgrimage center either.
And the reason for this is actually a little bit more messy.
And mainly what she's doing is pointing out the contradictions in the sources.
And so, for example, this elef Quraysh, it appears in the ground.
It's the verse starts off for the elef of Quraysh, the elef,
the journey of summer and winter. What the hell does that mean?
It's really difficult to know.
There's and she shows that Muslim commentators give at least 20 interpretations
of this elef that are different, many of them nothing to do with trade
or to do with pilgrimage.
So in that situation, what do we do?
She said, well, you can't really accept any of it if you get so much contradictory evidence.
But a lot of people say, no, no, no, there must be an especially Muslim.
So at least some of them must be true.
They can't all be or at least one of them must be true.
They can't all be false.
So that's a bit more of a controversial approach.
And as she goes through thinking about Mecca as a religious center,
she tends to say, well, there's a contradiction here.
So, for example, some sources would say the Calvary Mecca is for the God,
the pagan God Huba.
And then there's another source will say, no, no, it's for this God Allah.
But she said, how can you have two gods in the same little shrine?
Doesn't make any sense.
And then she said, so that can't be true either.
Patricia had this.
She was in some people think she's very cynical, but she wasn't really in some way.
She did actually believe it was true, but she was kind of like throwing out stuff.
It's like someone rooting through a big chest knowing that there's something
they've left in there and they're throwing out all the other stuff, trying to get to
that one thing that they want to say.
She kind of did want that.
I think her point is she has a good point.
I mean, it there may be one of these may be accurate, but having confidence,
uncertainty in that, obviously, that's not comfortable for people who are in the more
broader public of Muslim audience.
So that's something that it's like, no, you're disturbing.
I'm supposed to know without a doubt what happened.
And it's like, no, maybe that's something to do with it.
I don't know.
There's so many things.
So her point is that the biography of Mohammed is huge amounts of details.
She's saying that a lot of those details are actually much later explanations of
Quranic verses.
So Muslims realized, too, that the Quran was important for trying to understand Mohammed.
And so they would try to take every explain every single verse and say, what was the
situation?
What was the historical situation in this?
And some of it could have been just method.
And so, for example, there's a story about a guy called Abu Lahab, father of the
flame, and it looks to me more like a parable about the guy who's going to get
burned up by the fire, so calling father of the flame.
Surely it's just a metaphorical thing.
But no, there was in commentators, aha, so this Abu Lahab is this guy and he's
related to so and so in incredible detail.
So they historicized the Quran in a really detailed way.
And probably her most controversial statement in the contrary is that's all
just an aberration.
You can't believe a single word of it.
It's all much later explanations.
Trying to understand the historical background to the Quran.
Yeah, that's a tricky one.
It's not actually that easy to prove, by the way, mainly because there isn't because
as she says, we only have the book of the Quran to tell us what's happening for
sure in the Hamas time.
We don't have corroboration.
That's ideally what you want as a historian, not just one.
It's, you know, it's a bit like some somebody takes your car out and crashes it.
You want to know what's happened and five people watch and they're all telling
you if you only got one guy, you're going to be like, it's not really true.
Just if I'm finding another eyewitness to this.
I want to show you an image from the 1976 film on Islam called The Message.
And in this image, you can see at a very close walking distance from the Kaaba
trading stalls and people's homes.
So one would expect to see coins, pottery and jewelry.
There's been some discoveries made in Mecca during the expansion.
And here's some of the Saudi Arabian reports and the websites to these reports.
You can go into the description and check out for yourself.
One here is the medieval tombstones on earth to Mecca car park dig.
And this one in particular is the bones discovered during digging in the Grand Mosque.
This I mean, it's really interesting material to look at because we're trying to say
like, where is this material?
And outside of the Mecca Museum, let me show you that image briefly right here.
Outside of the Mecca Museum, where artifacts are kept and viewers can see
the inside of the museum on YouTube, where visitors have uploaded what's inside of the museum.
What I've noticed is there seems to be a lack of coins, pottery and jewelry
from the seventh century and before.
Why is this?
Yeah, so to some extent, you have to accept there's been no actual
deliberate excavations, research excavations in Mecca.
So there's chance finds where they do some sort of risk
they're looking for something else, building something, whatever.
Even then, they tend to be very.
You know, in the UK, you probably stop everything and you bring in some archaeologists
if you found bones or a coin or something that they wouldn't do that in Saudi.
So it's a bit sloppy is your point.
They're not really in terms of aim, I suppose.
I have the Saudi authorities by and large, you know, they're happy with their traditional story.
They see themselves as governors of the true story.
They're the keepers and custodians of Mecca, Medina, the two holiest sites
in Islam, and they're not, in a sense, custodians of the narrative as well.
They're not particularly interested for people to upturn the narrative.
But also it does fit with the fact that so for the sixth century,
we have no real evidence of activity, not just in Mecca,
but in the broader area.
So for Hegel, for example, which was excavated 10 years by a Saudi team
up to the fourth century, good, lots of stuff, but then fifth and sixth, very little.
I mean, this is another topic you could do a program on, really,
but some have argued that the so just as you have a collapse of the Western Roman Empire
after 410, maybe not as far as Dark Ages, but certainly, you know,
things go downhill a bit, maybe the same's happening
on this Eastern edges in Arabia.
Often when you get a substantial downturn recession, it's not everywhere.
It's normally peripheral areas that suffer worse.
And that's still true when we have a recession in, for example, like Detroit,
rather than New York, you know, so it could that could be that there's
a substantial downturn already.
But you could always this is another thing that Patricia picked up
in the contradiction of the sources.
Some sources said actually there would be a pagan religious festival
in Mecca for a few days.
But then everyone left because Mecca was unoccupied
because it was just a barren place in the desert.
Nobody lived there.
It's very clearly stated by a couple of sources, which is interesting.
Yeah, I mean, that kind of different perspective.
But equally, some sources say a difference.
So that's why Patricia is going to throw out her hair and say
that some of the sources say it wasn't actually inhabited.
It was a barren place.
OK, we're going to I'm sorry.
No, so people would go for a few days for this festival, but then they'd leave.
This is a really interesting thing to pay attention to.
And I think as we explore this deeper,
we might can get more of your opinions based on your research
about locations of things and stuff.
So I would like to move on to this idea.
I mean, one can understand that being a busy pilgrimage site
that there isn't time for archaeology.
Here are some pictures, if I may, of the expansion that happened in Mecca.
Why didn't the Saudi government at least allow photographs to be taken?
And these are.
So here is some construction that's taking place here as well.
As you could see, I did a zoomed in image on the right side, of course, as well.
There's a lot of digging that's happening here.
They're just not, like you said, they're not really paying attention
or giving a second thought to if they discovered something is what you're suggesting.
Yeah, I mean, I think we're kind of interested in history
and we're kind of interested if we get a different perspective on history,
something that actually changes the picture.
But the Saudi is not something they want.
The picture is quite good.
They've come up as custodians of the two holy sites of Islam,
and they aren't happy to, especially not for one of perhaps
the most popular alternative theories is that Mecca was actually not where it is
now, but much further north and it's hardly going to be popular with the Saudi.
They got a huge amount of revenue and kudos from the fact that it is where it is now.
That's something I think we're going to get into next, if I may.
I've got some maps.
So let's move on to where Peran and Mecca is on early maps.
And here's Ptolemy's map where you can see where Peran and Makaraba.
Am I saying that correctly? Makaraba?
Or Makabra or something.
Yeah. Well, Peran and Makabra is to begin.
Can you tell us who is Ptolemy, who died around 170 AD?
And how did he know where all the cities were as there was no satellite technology at the time?
Yeah. So Ptolemy is a very clever astronomer at the second century AD, as you say, Roman astronomer.
A lot of people think he writes geography. He doesn't exactly do that.
What he's actually doing is writing a treatise on how you make maps, world maps.
He talks about the problems because they actually didn't think the earth was flat.
They were actually quite happy with the fact that it was round.
But that's very difficult to do a map when you've got a curved surface.
So he's talking about how do you do this? How do you represent it on a flat surface?
Or how do you try and construct an actual globe?
So a lot of it's actually discussing how to do make a map.
Then he has a few chapters where he's just giving coordinates of places.
So you can put it on your map or your globe.
Right. How did he know?
Well, I mean, somebody cynically said, well, he didn't. That's the problem.
So they did have ideas of latitude and longitude.
So that allows you, in a sense, to put places in this way, that way.
But it is complicated because it's not a perfect circle our world.
It's like a flattened island. So the calculations are very complicated.
So he was a good mathematician.
So he's actually doing it by computation and trigonometric equations.
But there is going to be an accuracy.
And that is a lot of the places are not really, even those that we do know,
he doesn't really get the coordinates quite right.
I should preserve his reputation a bit though.
I should point out that numbers just like that, I mean, the chapters are just giving coordinates.
They're not often copied well.
If you think of, you write down your phone number and pass it along a chain of 50 people
and we're going to copy it, you can imagine maybe a digital, you know,
Chinese whispers that will get changed.
And this is basically what happened.
He's got chapters just of coordinates.
And if you look at it, took a number of medieval manuscripts,
you will find that they often vary.
So we don't know for sure.
It might be more accurate here.
Wow. Okay.
I just figured I pointed out on his map in particular where Peran and then of course
Macabre is and down in the South is Macabre.
And of course in the upper left hand corner of this image is Peran.
And so let's have a look at the city that is claimed to be Mecca or Macabre.
And there is a paper written by Ian Morris on this that you can download and read.
The link will also be in the description.
And this is the image that we're looking at closely.
The paper that he wrote is this one right here.
So you can go down in the description and check it out.
I believe you've seen this paper.
Can you tell us what Ian Morris found?
Well, this paper is actually one of these quite nice
tale about a problematic identification.
So this identification between Mecca and Macorabba,
we don't know how long we saw it, is very old.
Goes back to about somewhere around the early 17th century.
But it's a dubious one really.
Mecca and Macorabba don't sound particularly similar.
What the hell is all that extra Rababit doing?
Scholars at Western scholars at the time said,
ah, well, Rababit is the Aramaic word for big.
It's great.
So actually they're saying Mecca the great.
That's what Ptolemy is saying.
No evidence for that, of course.
Ptolemy wasn't trying to tell you anything about these places.
He's just except the location.
If you actually look at your map, if you look slightly to the northwest,
so there's a little bit up and a little bit left,
you've got Lathropa.
This is Yathrib, which is the old name for Medina.
But Mecca shouldn't really be further to the east of Medina.
It should actually be a bit west of it.
So there's no good reason to assume that Macorabba is Mecca, really.
It's an old identification.
And it just is interesting in scholarship.
Sometimes just the weight, somebody says this thing.
And if it does goes unchallenged for a long time,
it gains a huge weight of solidity back in there.
And so it gets into the established encyclopedias,
for example, is encyclopedia.
Islam accepts it.
And so people don't go against it.
So Ian was partly just tracking this history of this weight of identification.
There's no good reason for it, to be honest.
You can see the beginning of it, Mecca or Mecca.
Right, right.
Yeah, again, it's a problem of a corroboration.
Ideally, you want something corroborating.
We only have this one thing in Ptolemy.
And that's it.
No other pre-Islamic Greek or Roman sources
talking about a place called Mecca.
That's odd.
So it is relatively weak identification.
It's one of these nice, so Ian's paper
has got a nice tracing back of this identification.
That's interesting.
Yeah, sorry not to.
No, no, I'm thankful for this additional information
to think over and have people who are watching to think over as well.
If I can, let's move to the landscape of Mecca.
And here is a topographic map, if you will, of Mecca.
So everybody can kind of get an idea altitude wise and such.
I'm going to show a few others here in particular,
so that people can kind of get the idea.
The higher is red, green and blue starts to go down
towards sea level for people who aren't familiar with these maps.
I'm not the greatest either.
It's not like I know.
Inside and out what's going on with these maps.
Here's another one to give you better ideas.
We're getting a little more down to earth, so to speak.
And I put arrows here to give you an idea of current Mecca,
where we see this.
And there's this mountain range between, is it at Taif,
if I'm saying that correct?
And of course, there's Mecca on the western side of this map.
And then here's another one to kind of give you more of a,
here's some mountain peaks.
I mean, this is real serious terrain here that we're dealing with.
And then this is an actual image to give you a current,
they built like roads.
So you, you know, probably quite dangerous.
You got to be careful driving here, but how do camels go up
and down those mountains with goods on their back?
As those mountains seem pretty steep to climb there, Dr. Eulen.
Yeah, I mean, from the, so for the classical spice trade,
you know, in frankincense, Mer and other things,
they're actually passing a bit to the east of those mountains.
So on the eastern edge.
So passing up from Najran, which is on the Saudi.
Is there a way to show that here?
Would it be like on the right side, you're saying east of the?
Yeah.
So if you look at where Taif is,
then that is on the lower eastern, so that's on the lower eastern slope.
And you can see anywhere that you go to the west of the tire,
then that is dropping down quite substantially.
And it's fairly flat, actually.
So whereas it might be good on, I suppose, on yours,
but it is actually quite sloping.
So it wouldn't be a very good route.
So in general, yes, everything's passing
to the east side of those high mountains.
Yeah, about where you're there.
Yeah.
And you can actually trace it going up from Najran,
to say on the Saudi-Yemini border going up through.
And then if you look at the other places like Hegra and Taima,
they're also on the eastern side where it's fairly flat too.
The desert then becomes quite flat.
And there's also a series of Oasis
that make it easier to keep stopping off as well.
And you've been to these places.
You've been to all of these places, I'm sure, huh?
Yeah, not Meccan directly, but certainly along the coast here.
Yes, Saudi is a fantastic country.
As you can visit, dramatic.
And you can these days there.
It has actually opened up a lot more
and it's much easier to travel around.
Wow, that's awesome.
Okay.
Yes, you want to get a real impression.
Yeah.
Real quick, Patricia Crone mentioned in her book,
how none of the people that the Meccans traded with
seem to have had any receipts to show for this.
Can you tell us more about this?
I mentioned receipts directly,
but it's more than we don't have any clear evidence.
So sometimes receipts are tricky.
So you do sometimes if you're lucky.
So if I take Gerash, for example, in North,
modern Jordan, great, very impressive,
classical looking city, which continues on into the Islamic period.
And we have a lot of actually receipts
in the areas of the shop.
And what they are is just small bits of,
usually people use broken pots because it's free.
So rather than throw it away, you brush them up and store them
because then you can write,
you only need to be able to write, I sell you,
a pint of olive oil and everything, names and amount.
And so we do have.
And you find that in a lot of actually,
cities that you excavated in the Middle East.
But again, as I say, because we don't excavate in general,
especially not in any consistent way,
places like Mecca and the Dino, we expect to have anything.
But there's no kind of record of any sort of trade
in that area as well.
But again, if you accept that it's very low level trade,
that wouldn't be surprising.
It's mainly just buying leather buckles.
I mean, if you're buying a gold ring out of a shop,
you definitely want to have a receipt of that.
Just if you want to be sure, they're not going to be gold at all.
But if you just buy a leather cheap leather watch strapper,
it's not that much money.
Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate that.
I'm going to show another early map of Peran in French.
And here you can see other possible location of where Peran is.
If you don't mind taking a look at that.
I did a little outward one on the left side of the whole image here.
But on the right, we zoom in.
You can see the arrow pointed directly to Peran.
Begin in to wonder if this map in particular is stemming from the Ptolemy map.
I mean, here's the one above, of course, from Ptolemy.
And then here's the one in French.
Are we probably assuming that this French map is using the Ptolemy map?
So you're going into, as often with these things,
there's a huge backstory to these things.
There's never just a simple explanation.
Or that's why policy makers often get annoyed with academics.
Because we never say, yeah, that's the right thing to do.
Definitely. We say, well, there's problems with this.
So Peran is a biblical place.
It's mentioned in the Bible, the connection with Moses.
Someone, they're going to the Promised Land.
They cross over from Sinai to Peran.
You get the impression that they've crossed the Red Sea
and it's somewhere in the north of Saudi Arabia.
But it is a biblical term.
You don't actually hear about it really after that.
Now, what happens in Christianity is, of course,
the Bible, the whole of it, Old Testament of the World,
becomes corporate for this part of their worldview,
the way of understanding everything.
So you get biblical terms, geographical terms as well,
incorporated within that.
So a lot of authors do mention, and even equate,
sometimes Peran, Mecca.
But we can't be sure whether they are saying something about Mecca.
So there's a lot of...
This is Rumsfeld's unknown unknowns, really,
with what we're going into.
We don't know for sure where Mecca is or Peran.
It's very messy.
But so we don't know how much they,
whether they're just wanting a biblical tag
to go with the rise of Islam.
So, for example, they use Ishmaelites,
very commonly as a term.
Again, there's a nice biblical term.
They want to explain quite a lot of things often in biblical,
using biblical templates and biblical expressions,
toponyms, whatever.
Now, that doesn't mean that there's no reality there.
So, for example, Daniel's Apocalypse
is incredibly popular for Christians.
It describes about the Four Beasts,
meaning the Four World Empires,
then how the little horn will come,
and then they will start to talk about the coming of.
So this is some disrupting anti-profit force.
And so that often got linked with Muhammad, of course.
And people used it to think,
oh, well, Four Empires, that must be Rome,
it must be Iran, it must be...
So they're trying to apply it to reality.
But obviously, it can be messy,
because they might squeeze their reality
to fit with the biblical model.
And that could be the case with the Faran Necca.
Faran probably should be much further north.
But the modern Necca, somewhere, as I say,
around the Saudi Jordanian border.
But when they equate Necca with Faran,
did they actually have any knowledge
that Necca was further north?
Or is it just that they've squeezed a reality
to fit with the biblical model?
And that makes it tricky to be sure of this information.
I know a lot.
I've got this guy, I don't have never looked him up.
But this guy named David Randall
constantly talks about this academic.
And almost anything and everything that I ever mentioned...
I'm talking about PhDs, the experts in their field.
These are the people you go to
who would know the historical reality
pertaining to certain things, right?
This person, I don't know who they are,
always recommends this academic.
And this academic always has everything pointing to Arabia.
Like everything is going on in Arabia.
Oh, no, Moses, that was Arabia.
And then this is Arabia.
And then Jesus, in fact, Paul, the Apostle Paul.
That was in Arabia.
Like everything goes down.
And you kind of go, what's going on here?
Like, is this guy a peer-reviewed PhD
that you want me to interview?
Or is this some kind of guy who wants to do pseudo history
that wants to try and make everything come down
into his particular...
Because he wants his region to be more favorable.
So he attaches the places.
He says, ah, they got those places wrong.
They're really actually down here.
Makes you kind of wonder, I don't know.
Yeah, there's a very famous book, actually, where
the person argued that actually all the biblical events
like Moses night, they all happened in Saudi Arabia,
not in Sinai.
Some of it can be quite difficult to disprove,
because we don't really know the Exodus, for example.
Moses, Exodus, the places that are used,
they're not existing now.
So the place name.
So it's difficult to be sure.
So, well, Faran, as an example,
we don't use that place name anymore.
So that makes it difficult to be sure where it was.
So relatively, it can be easy to shift.
I don't know if you've ever done one on the location
where to the events of Moses, Exodus happened.
It's a kind of interesting number, precisely,
because you could put it in different places, really,
if you just simply reinterpret everything.
It's not easy to disprove.
Have you ever heard of the gentleman named Kamal Salibi?
Yeah, yeah, he's got a famous historian.
Yeah.
Is he a legit academic?
Yeah, he wrote some interesting material.
I can't remember if he bought into the,
and say the theory about Moses being in Arabia
was quite popular, but I don't know if he bought into that.
Yeah, because this guy, I've never interviewed this academic
or this gentleman here,
who says, was a Lebanese historian,
professor of history at American University of Beirut.
And the founding director, later honorary president
of the Royal Institute of Interfaith Studies in Amman, Jordan.
He was a lifetime bachelor who devoted his life to books,
but this guy who follows this person,
it doesn't matter if I have Bart Ehrman on
when it comes to Jesus studies.
It doesn't matter if I have John J. Collins on
when it comes to Hebrew Bible or the book of Daniel, right?
It doesn't matter if I have whoever, Robert Hoylund,
on early Islamic history of the conquest or something.
This guy, Khalil, he knows more than all of you,
and he has it right.
Everybody else is wrong.
And I'm like, is this guy just a fan or whatever?
Anyway, I figured I'd ask because I've never looked
into this gentleman in wanting to interview,
but I got like kind of a bad taste in my mouth
on the responses because everybody's wrong, but this guy,
you know, you haven't you interviewed this guy?
He knows better than everything about everyone, you know?
I don't know.
It reminds me, I first, I went and gave some lectures
in Kabul University, and it was meant more for young students,
but there was no professor came along.
But he's first, he started off when I opened the lecture
by saying, we have this book from 1950s
by this most eminent historian.
I think it says everything we need to know.
So why would we listen to you?
Oh, it's got a challenge.
He really came over in the end, actually.
We had a very nice series of lectures,
but there is this idea of, you know, the authority.
They got it right.
And so, you know, no sense that historical
perspectives and theories evolve.
Okay, this guy sent it all down.
That's it.
We can just stick with that.
It looks like this gentleman, Camille Salibi,
wrote three books advocating the controversial Israel
in Arabia theory.
In this view, the place names of Hebrew Bible
actually allude to places in Southwest Arabia.
As the Arabian Hebrews migrated and many resettled
in Palestine where they established the Hasmonean kingdom
under Simon Maccabeus or Maccabees in the second century BC.
According to the theory, the place names in the Bible
were gradually reinterpreted to refer to places
in the new region.
In this new Israel, the Jewish people switched
from Hebrew to Aramaic.
So anyway, he writes extensively on this idea, I guess,
but I don't know.
Yeah, I think that's it.
Again, a topic for you.
It's a good example, mind you, of what early Islam
is like that as well.
When you don't have many sources, it allows you to play
around quite a bit with the narrative.
Yeah.
Well, thank you for just taking the time to do that.
If I will, I'm going to bring up these two early accounts
and I'm going to probably butcher the names.
So forgive me.
Anasius of Shirek or Shirek who died, say it again.
Ananius, yeah, of Shirek, yeah.
Who died in 685 AD and Thomas Artuni who wrote his work
after 905 AD.
Can you tell us more about these two?
And I'm going to show us some visuals while you're maybe
discussing this, this one right here.
Yeah, so they're both Armenians writing in Armenian.
And Ananius was a very clever writer, lots of things.
He's famous for geography.
We have a shorter and a longer version of it.
And then Thomas Artuni is quite major history.
But as I said, so the problem of this, yeah, the place
called Faran, which is now Mecca, is what do they know?
Do they know anything about Mecca?
And also, for sure, know where they thought Faran was.
Well, he actually says Arabia, Petraea, and that is referring
to the area around Petra.
Probably pretty much the Nabataean Kingdom, which means going
down to Hagar, Medae, and Salih.
It was in northwest Saudi Arabia, and then going up towards
the Jordanian-Syrian border.
Petraea, Rocky, you know, it's a fairly rocky desert area.
So it's given its own kind of designation, mostly, as I say,
the Nabataean Kingdom.
Would you say that based on their description and the two maps we
kind of showed of Faran or Faran that we showed earlier,
that the original Mecca may have been up north?
And if so, like, do you have an idea of when that location or
when the location moved to present-day Mecca?
Like, is there, I know we can't be dogmatic,
but like, do you have a hunch or a guess?
Yeah, so this is kind of one of the more persistent ideas
in scholars thinking about the rise of Islam.
So that is the implication, certainly, of those Armenian sources,
that they're thinking Meccans from the north.
As I said, the question is how much they actually knew
about the location in Mecca.
That's not so easy to say.
The backing for this theory comes in different directions.
Patricia Cronin went on to write.
It's funny, you started off in her interview that you quoted from,
she said about the fact that the crown doesn't tell a story.
She actually changed her mind about that to some extent.
I remember when she taught us in the 1980s, it was very much,
you can't use the crown for any sort of historical reconstruction.
It's too vague.
It doesn't name anything much.
It's true.
There are very few names of places and people there.
So she just took it and you can't say anything.
But she got persuaded by kind of a big shift in chronic studies,
which was to properly place it in the late antique,
as a product of the late antique world in the sort of the 620s,
as opposed to how it was seen by 9th century Muslim scholars in their commentaries.
Well, actually, maybe you can use it to say something about Muhammad's life.
And she wrote an interesting article, which was how did the pagan
meccans make a living?
And she took it seriously, what the chronic references to agriculture and to trade.
And interestingly, the opponents of Muhammad seem to be agriculturalists,
whereas actually the usual view is that it's the pagan parishes of traders.
And it's actually in the ground that believers are Muhammad's followers who are traders.
In a way, this fits with what we know about the spread of other religions,
like Christianity, where agriculturalists.
And of course, the word pagan does mean the people who live in the country.
That's the technical term.
Precisely because, yeah, because they're the ones who often are more conservative
in their views and don't follow new trends.
Whereas traders, because they're used to having to move around,
they talk to many different peoples, the idea is that they're more receptive to new ideas and
ideologies. So they're the ones who do adopt.
So actually, her idea fits quite nicely with that.
It doesn't fit at all with the traditional Muslim story.
The other thing is that the Quran talks about various things like olives,
which actually would never grow in Mecca as much to dry, but they would go further north.
So that's one of the ideas for Mecca being further north.
Another is the misalignment of some moths, early moths,
which is they're orientated further north.
And it's just a few indicators like that.
So it's a kind of persistent idea.
There's not enough evidence to be really kind of sure.
What I wonder though, is that in the earliest period,
there isn't just one sanctuary, Muslim sanctuary,
but a number of Muslim sanctuaries,
that they see other places as holy, Jerusalem being an obvious one,
but maybe others as well, that just over time, especially during the
when the Muslims conquered the whole Middle East,
they're like the Parva New, everyone's talking about it,
but our place is much better around.
We have all these wonderful temples, what do you have?
And they kind of retrench a bit.
And they actually, in the sense, you're back to Arabia,
so they can focus much more on Arabia.
It's their home land.
And so you could say that they narrowed down and just
then accepted Mecca as the only sanctuary of Islam.
But I know it's very different.
The problem is it is very different to prove this.
Lots of hints.
So it's very intriguing and fascinating,
especially to those who would like to disrupt the traditional narrative.
Thank you for that.
Now I would like to move on to Muhammad's life in Mecca and in Muslim biographies.
It mentions that he was a prophet for 22 years,
where the non-Muslim sources seem to say something different.
Let's have a look at them.
Here, I'm going to show an image,
is a 10th century copy of the fragment of the charts of Jacob of Edessa,
written at 692.
And here is that, just so everybody has a look.
In this one in particular, it says the reign was seven years.
And the next one here, I have, is a chronicle in 705 AD.
And this one is talking about the Caliphs and whatnot.
So he reigned seven years again.
Here's another.
And then this one is a chronicle from 724 AD,
where it says that Muhammad lived another 10 years.
This is also another one in particular.
It's a chronicle from 775 AD, Muhammad, 10 years.
So this is about the account of generations, races, and years,
from Adam down to the present day, written in 8775.
And then here is the Zouknin, I hope I'm saying this correctly,
chronicle that was written in 775 AD,
just so people could see this manuscript.
And then the translation right here,
where it mentions the name Muhammad,
then down below you see it highlighted, where it says,
so he governed them for seven years.
That was that.
Also, we have the, from Dionysus of Tel-Mahar,
I'm saying that right, or Marr.
And this is talking about patriarch from 8618 to 68,
or sorry, 818 to 845.
This is talking about Muhammad, king of the Arabs,
who died after reigning for 10 years.
So you kind of have this like seven and 10 year thing going on.
So there's people, or now people are leaders of nations,
and not the land.
Anyway, let's first stop right there.
Do you have anything you'd like to say
about all these sources that I just brought up?
Is this, could they just be copying off of each other,
or is there something to it?
Yeah, there's a couple of interesting things though.
So one is the period, I mean, 10 years,
obviously you could say they're just simply
slightly misrepresenting what he is.
This is Muhammad's time at Mecca, Medina,
right, 622 to 632, 10 years.
Okay, that seems to fit quite well.
But the interesting thing, of course,
they say he's reigning, not that he's a prophet,
but that he's reigning, he's a king.
As always with the non-Muslim sources,
and especially when they're talking about Muhammad's lifetime,
which they wouldn't have had real access to.
A prophet's never anything in their own lifetime, really.
He tends to be afterwards, and this is like Jesus,
plenty of wandering holy men at the time, you know.
And he gradually, you know, becomes
such an amazing, huge figure afterwards, really.
And this is the same for Muhammad.
So the question you always have to ask,
what do they know, what makes them think he's a king?
Is it because that's...
So he seems to lead the beginning of the conquest anyway,
Muhammad, he's Muslim sources.
So that sounds like something a secular leader would do.
So that sounds like something that Muhammad would do.
A secular leader would do.
So they make him a king because that's what you might expect.
They might decide not to make him a prophet
because they don't want to accord him prophetic statement,
status, the Christian sources.
They don't want to acknowledge later ones,
say he's a false prophet.
Okay, they know the man, Muslims say he's a prophet,
but we can say he's a false prophet.
So that always...
We would like to know why do they say this?
Are they able to tap into any real information?
Or is it just their particular perspective
and their way of reconstructing what's going on?
So for example, the number of Christians
that are more positive towards Islam.
So those that are more negative will say Muhammad's a false prophet.
Those that are more positive will say,
well, Muhammad, he's a prophet,
but he doesn't know the whole story.
He only knows about the being one God.
And that's, you know, he's a not really high level prophet.
And God thought, well, the Arabs aren't,
you know, they're too barbaric to be able to understand
the mysteries of the Trinity.
So we'll just tell them about the one God.
So they make Muhammad into a low level prophet.
We just know that we didn't know the real difficult things
about the Trinity.
So that's their way of reconstructing things.
Just to help them understand the world
and still preserve the fact that they,
the Christians are still superior,
as they know the real mysteries of the Trinity.
We would say, well, that's obviously false.
That's simply an explanation to preserve Christian
positive feelings about themselves.
So the question is, when they say Muhammad's a king,
what are they doing there?
Is that also just a way of preserving their own way of,
you know, thinking of the world,
that they have the only true spiritual leader in Jesus?
So Muhammad, well, he's an secular, he's a king.
Or do they know something?
And that's what's really difficult for us to sort out.
The seven 10 is a rather fast,
something I remember getting very hooked on during my PhD.
There is a very strange three year discrepancy
dating for various events, early Islam.
So for example, some Christian sources say
that Muhammad started his work in 930,
the year 930 after Alexander the Great,
which was a way of counting that they used
in a number of Christian communities in the Middle East.
Or 933, so that's, that will be 619 or 622.
And it's just, it's really odd.
And kind of for a while,
they could have started trying to collect everything
to try and find out what lay behind it.
But it's really difficult to know.
That is weird.
Yeah.
I mean, not clear whether it's a problem in the hijra.
Because that actually, sometimes they messed up.
The Christians also forgot it was, or didn't know,
that it was lunar.
They took the years.
Because documents dated according to the hijra,
don't say according to the hijra,
they just say year 10, year 13, or 20.
So you don't actually know exactly what it means.
So they could have messed up.
So there is a discrepancy of 11 days a year.
So soon you'll have the diverges more.
But it's really very difficult to say.
Wow.
So these are interesting.
But I do say, I find it a problem.
My conclusion in my seeing Islam, as others saw it,
which was precisely to think,
how can we use non-Muslim sources
when we talk about the rise of Islam?
And how true are they?
It's how useful for a historian is the more or the less likely
they are to have access to genuine knowledge,
the less useful they are.
And if you look at Muhammad's lifetime in the 620s,
so Ananias of Shirak was actually a younger,
he was alive when Muhammad was born.
But his way up in the area of modern Armenia,
look at Yerevan and the map,
I mean, how would someone up there get real good access
to what's happening down here in Mecca,
a couple of thousand miles away?
That's a problem.
What you could say, and I gave the example earlier on,
didn't I, about John Barth and Kai,
he was of an exact contemporary of Ananias of Shirak,
is of course that they could be getting it,
contemporary Muslims.
So if Ananias is writing his book in about the 650s,
if he has actually spoken to Muslim 650s,
well, okay, he might have quite good information.
We don't know for sure.
This reminds me of Tacitus.
Suhtonius and Tacitus make a mention of these Christians
and their leader.
And you kind of go, there's some scholars who think that
Tacitus mentioning of this Jesus in kind of passing
was stuff that he picked up from Christians
or the source he got it from may have been Josephus
and they may have got it from Christians,
that somehow they captured them,
maybe they were in court or something happened
and they're, tell us about this.
What is it that you know?
And of course the Christians are relaying,
we have a Messiah, we have a Jesus
and he's our leader and whatnot.
So they're learning this from contemporaneous
or somewhat contemporaneous Christians
to find out this historical reliable source
about a Jesus figure.
There are a lot of academics who think that
and I'm wondering if that's what you're kind of getting at
is like, here are some possible contemporaneous
Muslim sources or Muslims that are teaching
and telling like, this is the deal.
But I imagine there had to been an echo in some way
when they started conquering or started going out,
you're going to make ripples,
you know, word of mouth is going to get out there.
Messengers are going to say, hey, this is what's going on
kind of like we saw with, what was the source
that was really highlighted a lot in Shani Anthony's work
on the historical Muhammad, where...
It might have been.
Is this the one where the Jewish...
Interesting.
Yeah.
So Sebeus is a really fascinating,
so there we actually have quite interesting
kind of insight here because Sebeus says
he actually is getting his information from prisoners of war
who've managed to escape and come back
and so he's spoken to them.
So we do know actually, and what you can see
what happened is he's got some genuine information
about Muhammad.
He mentions the trader and he's got, you know,
mentioned some of the basics of the law,
so he's got this genuine information.
And what he's trying to do,
but his worldview is biblical really.
He understands the world through the Bible.
He also tries to bring in some of this biblical setting
and he also knows some of the things
that are happening in the world.
So in the aftermath of the Persian-Roman
big conflict in the 6th, in 03 to 628,
a number of Jews were captured
but they were released or escaped
so they wouldn't...
Because they'd helped the Persians
and so they didn't want to fall into the hands of the Romans
so a number of them flee.
And he, because you can see what he's been told about Islam
about the law, seems to be quite close to Judaism,
he then makes this link that these Jews
who are fleeing the Romans,
they actually head down to Muhammadism
so they teach him stuff.
So they are trying to understand
and put together a picture
of what he thinks is happening in the world.
It's quite interesting because it's an interesting mix
genuine material bits and pieces where he's...
I thought it was interesting in Sean Anthony's book
where he spends a little time talking about the keys
where he's like the keys to heaven and this idea
and is this a Petrine kind of a Roman jab
of his Christian worldview kind of seeping through
or is this the Jihad teaching of through combat
you will go directly to heaven?
And we see that and I don't know
if it has to be one way or the other.
It could be what I call eclectic
because martyrdom in the Christian teaching
if you are a martyr you get instant access directly to heaven
you don't have to go through purgatory.
So here is a kind of another way of saying
through this combat you are fighting for God
you go directly to heaven in this particular situation.
I don't know because in the book he doesn't like say
Sean Anthony doesn't go this is the answer and that's not
he leaves you kind of open to make your own guess
based on the data is it a Petrine jab is it
something taught specifically Muhammad
because he talks about the blood
like someone is derogatorily slandering Muhammad in a way
like oh he's just a evil blood you know he wants to kill
and that's it and that's the way they're trying to paint him
and you kind of wonder well if you're not a combat soldier
and you're worried or afraid maybe you're portraying it
so I don't know you know.
Yeah yeah so it's the same this use of king
and say whether it reflects any knowledge
or whether it's just a way of characterizing him
so they don't have to say he's a religious prophet
it's it's we just don't have enough
corroborating material to be able to say for sure.
Don't be too confident.
Okay so we're getting close to the end here
now people are leaders of nations and not the land
if we take the Jewish community as an example
they didn't have a country before Israel was founded
but they still seem to have had leaders
is the reason why Muhammad's reign
mentioned in these non-Muslim sources
which seem to refer to his Medinan period only
is not 22 years is simply because his life in Mecca didn't exist
and I know that we can't be dogmatic
but this is just a kind of a question
do you think that the Meccan life of Muhammad could be fabricated?
You have to say for the biography of Muhammad I have a
I think life of any the greater the person
the more legends and stories are going to be told about them
and with religious founders that become important
to billions of people
then there's a huge incentive to manufacture material
I mean just to tell stories
but also to manufacture incense
and for Islam it's particularly bad
because Muhammad becomes the source of law
a source of law next to the Qur'an
but the Qur'an is quite vague
so Muhammad becomes the main source of law
that is a problem
but also attitudes change
even a nice example I quite like is
early sources talk about Muhammad's corpse rotting
but later it became a doctrine that Muhammad's body didn't
was incorruptible
but in a sense it didn't decompose
and so then you get stories about how people
passed by his grave and later a beautiful smell comes out
this is very popular in the Christian saints stories as well
so you can see this shift
but you get it for anything
and it can be legal as well
so for example the question of whether you're allowed to get married
during the pilgrimage or not
hangs on different stories about whether Muhammad did or did not
marry I think it's Maymunah
during the pilgrimage or not
those who want to defend the fact that you can
legally get married during the pilgrimage
say he did marry her then
something we say
want to forbid marriage during the pilgrimage
no no no it happened outside it was later
so everything's contentious
because everything's either going to be legal
doctrinal or just part of how we think of Muhammad now
and think about God
many people used to think of him
very angry guy killing, committing genocide on a regular basis
then you know later he'd become a loving God
because he'd be much more loving
maybe he's more a hippie God
where he's actually just one with the whole cosmos
you know I love you
look at we put ourselves into our thinking about
there's so many things
this also gets into I guess there's ideas about God having a body
or not having a body
and there's debates on that in the Muslim world
also when I interviewed Peter von Sievers
he told me he's like
I just don't go to the Muslim sources he said
because he feels like you're talking about this
there's just kind of the Patricia Cron point
what can we really trust
there's so many conflicts
and once you enter that realm he says
you're into kind of theology and law
and you're into this world where
it's taboo to really talk about
so he's like you know I just
I'm gonna stick with what he thinks are
more trustworthy historical ways of trying to approach it
but you also have some things you said
that make me question that
like how can we know he's all the way up here
and he's too tough
so maybe we can't know
or at least maybe we shouldn't be so dogmatic
if we're approaching this
unless you're a person of faith of course
who's like required to take the stance
I think historically speaking
we should not be dogmatic
that's ultimately what I'm getting from you
I think it depends on what you want to know as well
so for Muhammad
do you want to know what he really exactly did
in any particular time and thought
that's a nightmare
that's going to be
change according to what later
people wanting to do and think
if you want to know more about the context
of his life
you can know more because
you know say there's an account about him cooking
a meal of broth
then okay you might get a
if the type of potty
nobody's going to bother manufacturing
that sort of evidence
you know that
you know how we want to say you know what
well I mean you could say I suppose
that people wanted to say
Muhammad drank this type of broth
I suppose product placement
I don't know
but anyway the more
the more you talk about general fact
the more you get
I tried when I read the book on Arabia
that writing about Northwest Arabia is quite tricky
because there isn't written materials
we have a lot of poetry
that people say well poetry is a terrible thought
because you're trying to
you know articulate sensibilities
and things not
talk about what happened
but they do talk a lot about
effectively the material context
so for example there's a particular
style of opening a poet
a poem where you say about
you look at the remains of the camp site
where your beloved
had once been
when you remember the beautiful times together
you made love under the open sun
rode your camel at top speed
you're together hiding from you know
hungry relatives you know
they say this
and it's true you couldn't use it
to that sort of poetry to talk about the
you know really whether
this these two people made love
under the sun they are here or not
but the interesting thing is the description
of the campsite because it talks about
how it's set out about where the
cooking pot is what it's made of
and you know the implements that are there
so there you actually do get
at least a picture of an everyday life
the picture so you could say
you could do the same with the biography of Muhammad
but of course what people really want to know
what did you think
not just what yeah like what did he say
what did he really say
what did he really do
how did he really feel about these things
and that's it's the same problem with Jesus
studies the difference I think is
in the Jesus studies they've really made some legend
and and whereas with I'm not saying
they don't do the same they build legend
but they obviously know in their doctrine
for whatever reason
they're not willing to go so far as to
somehow slip him into the
into the the the doctrine of God itself
and Peter von Severs argues
he thinks you can use the Quran
to see that it's reacting to these versions
of christen christendom
that have a deicide where God dies
like there are certain Christians who think
God dies
and they're saying oh hell no
so like he thinks that they're thinking
no we need something that keeps
completely makes Jesus not that
a human
we are okay with miracle stories
but we're not okay with having him even
close to being a god in any way
or having Muhammad as god
so obviously they're they're gonna divorce
that but have legendary tells about him
I don't know what's true
I'm a student who has no clue
but I do have a big question mark
in my head of like
what is going on here so
this has been a blast
did you want to comment on that
before I get to our last examples
the Quran
so there's been a really great advance
in Quranic studies
I say advance
but let's say it's brought some really
interesting new thinking perspectives
on the Quran which is
and a particular shift from the idea
that where you can't use the Quran
in any way
the historical reconstruction
and you can use it to understand
quite a few things about Muhammad's life
is one of the interesting things
what you were saying just then really
is that there are dialogues going on
really Muhammad's arguing with people
if we take it that Muhammad's in the background
the one who's doing the talking
because it's very rhetorical
so you guys say this
but that's not true at all
you guys I'm a magician
but that's not true at all
and so what's kind of interesting
you are getting a double perspective there
and at least you're understanding something
about the view of the narrator anyway
it's great to be Muhammad as you like
but so it is actually kind of more revealing
and then I think Patricia's article about
how the Quranic pagans make a living
in the Quranic pagans as they make a living
is interesting but I'm thinking about the material world
and it is very concrete
because some critics would say
oh but it's just metaphor
but it's surprisingly concrete
he said
when you go out into the fields
and you plant this
remember
and it's surprisingly concrete
it doesn't sound like
some obviously are just metaphors
using the balance
in ideas of the balance
for weighing the good
and evil deeds
yes that's a metaphor
and it's very ancient
but some of it's surprisingly concrete
about what people are growing
wow thank you for that
I really appreciate those responses
finally we have some
or some have suggested
that Jerusalem is the holy city of Islam
at least early on
they base it on these coins
and the Umayyad graves
at Kastal and Jordan
that are facing Jerusalem
and let me show these images for people
here's one
numismatic evidence if you will
early Islamic
if we could even call it that
because I don't know
this is that question of like
early Christian
well Christian isn't a thing
till later
really they're Jews
who are following Jesus
and then it becomes Christian
very complicated
even the idea of Islamic
what does that even mean
but you get the point
I'm trying to say
is these early followers of Muhammad
and what not
here's some numismatic evidence
and then here's a picture
I hope people can see
their orientation
is actually
a lot of these gravesites
if you will
in the cemetery are pointed towards
Jerusalem
so what are your thoughts
about the hypothesis
that earlier
in even maybe even
Muhammad's lifetime
everything was kind of
directed at Jerusalem
as the city of God
and then it becomes
a new location
almost like maybe there was a
I'm speaking as a metaphor here
you know Jerry Springer
there's a battle going on
between Jews and Ishmaelites
and they were cool
and then something happened
and I don't know
but Jerusalem was the city
we even see the
it's not really a mosque
but what is it
that is built here
on
right here on
where the temple was
so what are your thoughts
about this whole idea
the first
is one of the few cases
you can say
it's pretty much certain
that Jerusalem was important
to the early Muslims
the first Kibla
and there's no disagreement
Muslim sources or crown
the first Kibla
the first direction of
priorities towards Jerusalem
oddly
it's normally just stated
oh the first Kibla was called
Jerusalem
then it got changed to Mecca
but why
so there's a lot about
the change to Mecca
but oddly there's nothing
about but why was it to Jerusalem
interestingly no explanation
about that
whether that's because
they were Jews directly
or
whether just because
Jerusalem had become
holy to Jews and Christians
that you know
it just got accepted
but then
but it's clear
Jerusalem was crucial
also
when they capture
Jerusalem
they build a mosque
I think you were referring
to the Dome of the Rock
because you said
oh it's not a mosque
it's
I don't know what it is
so the Dome of the Rock
is commemorative
in that it's built over
the stone
of Mount Moriah
that's exposed that
lots of stories about it
one of the most famous of course
that Abraham has sacrificed
his son
Isaac
or as later
Muslim tradition
or maybe early Muslim tradition
but I don't know for sure
takes it
his son Ishmael
so it's commemorating
something about that
we didn't really
it's one of the tricky things
exactly what is it commemorating
it's not 100% sure
some people say it's commemorating
the site of the temple
some that it's commemorating
the site where Abraham
sacrificed a son
so it's a little bit unclear
but they also built a mosque
and that's there
today
the Aqsa mosque
and there's enough accounts
to be
really sure
that there is a mosque built
certainly by the 650s
if not earlier
so the question I suppose really is
is Jerusalem the
name of the Muslims
and the Holy City
or is it one of many
there's Mecca, Medina
there's Kufa, there's Jerusalem
so you could say as many
but there's no doubt that Jerusalem
is important
in this case of how important
and exactly in what way is it important
so the coin is a good example
of this that we show
so there's a menorah
but on its own
so sometimes people take over
symbols
so like Easter eggs
bunnies, Easter bunnies
lovely pagan things
Christianity just takes them over
and makes it into a Christian symbol
that's very very common
is it the menorah being used in that way
so you can take it over a symbol
either to effectively absorb it
make it effectively bring along
those pagans
because they you've kept their symbols
within
your new religion
so it kind of makes them friendly
or sometimes people take them over
to show that we're now dominant
so in the Assyrians would do this
they'd capture people's gods
put their gods in their holy places
which are ha ha we've taken over your gods
it's not that they were going to worship them
for sure not
but in fact
showing that their god Ashura is
dominant over these minor gods
so is the menorah in what ways it being taken
is it because the menorah was important
because there's a lot of Jewish elements
we can choose among the
Arab conquering armies
or is it in a sense
showing their superseding
that we've taken over the menorah
and we're now dominant
it's a bit unclear
you know just from that image
it's really difficult
how do you understand that
you know it's like
it's amazing early Islamic pointage
especially in the Roman Empire
because there's a lot of different images
of being used
but we don't really know exactly
what the significance are
some of the caliph was holding
or the image person
was holding a bird on his arm
what the hell's that about
and then
even what's always called
the standing caliph
it's unclear whether it's a caliph
really it just became
accepted among modern scholars
to say it's a caliph
but no this is just a rather dramatic
long flowing hair and the sword
it's really unclear
one Muslim told me
he thought it was an apocalyptic Jesus figure
and Jesus had come
there is a mention
so I'm not as good as I ought to be
on my new test
it's just meant to use the sword to
say yeah revelation
yeah there's
he's gonna come with the sword
and actually
supposed to kill the wicked
and or destroy the wicked and
yeah okay there's
there's so many good things
I seriously appreciate you
for clarifying all of this
but is one of the more controversial
things right now
in in the scholarship
that it's being taken serious
that is like
controversial obviously
to the Islamic narrative
is there something you can think of
yeah well one
if you certainly
Mecca to the north
which is still a very
yeah
and still taken quite seriously
revived by Patricia
Patricia first in Mecca trade
again in
their recent Koran articles
okay
what about the Petra theory
do you think there's any validity to that or
yeah I mean that's
whether Petra
so then
okay the first thing is
do you take it the Mecca isn't
where it is now
but it ought to be somewhere
further to the north
I think a lot of people
take that quite seriously
the Petra is a less
so I think people
it is a contender
but I think people feel
not quite so fun or
maybe around the very
top end of
Saudi Arabia
and then we
are not that far to the north
yeah so as Steven Shoemaker
has kind of written
about this apocalyptic approach
yeah so that's another
interesting one
that
that's
I think exactly controversial
but it is a really
it wasn't taken as seriously
as it could have been
I think
a guy from Casanova
who actually
did make a big thing about
apocalyptic Muhammad
Muhammad in the end of times
and that this was what he was about
he was an apocalyptic prophet
did believe that
the world was about to end
people need to be gathered in
because remember the Quran
does not
talk about a new religion
that is not Muhammad's
perspective at all
there is only one true religion
and all the problem
it isn't that there's
going to be any new
there's nothing to do with that
it's to do with correcting
Jews and Christians
but with
you know crazy things
about trinities
that's the problem
if we all get
so
Schumacher's idea is that
effectively it's the
in-gathering
of believers that's mentioned
and a couple of times
in the New Testament
that the place to
do the in-gathering
is Jerusalem
capture Jerusalem
bring the believers together
and await the second coming
he's saying
that's what the habit's about
the second coming
bit is probably more controversial
because obviously
that sounds very Christian
and Messiah isn't really a thing
in the Quran
and this is the bit
that's more tricky
is
is that you can tell stories
about the end of the world
and all the things about things
will happen
and it doesn't mean you think
it's going to happen now
or any time soon
so a lot of the apocalypse is
and there's huge amounts
it's a very popular genre
really
let me take it as our
sci-fi or dystopia
you know
except we're in utopia I suppose
but
um
very very popular genre
but a lot of them
it's not to do with saying
these are just about to happen
so Stephen's
Shoemaker's argument is
that the ism
Muhammad does think
it's about to happen
and it's urgent
and that's what inspires
the whole movement
of the Islam
and that's what's
still controversial
but still
interesting and
to some degree plausible
he's actually
building very much on
Michael Cook
and Patricia Crone's book
Hagerism
because that was their point as well
the idea of Hagerism
is that Jews
and Muslims
are effectively together
participating
in they put it at one point
you can be in my dream
if I can be in your dream
they have a shared dream
right right
of the apocalypse
about to happen
they fuse their ideas
to create this
Judeo-Islamic
apocalypse
the idea that
yes
to it will happen soon
let's capture Jerusalem
make it happen
I look forward to meeting you
with Dr. Shoemaker's
fingers crossed
having a friendly
professional dialogue
to be whatever
back and forth
about ideas
and like
where you're both at
because I really do appreciate
your scholarship
and I love learning this stuff
from you
and what we cannot know
what we can know
what we can guess on
and have fun
I look forward to it
that will be great
enjoy it
students are great
glad to talk to you too
thank you so much for your time
and never forget
we are
Mitt Fishin
