Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
So Paul is a strange fellow, people think Paul created Christianity, he was definitely
influential, charismatic, he flies off the pages of his letters and he's like many of
us humans in many ways, flaws and good characteristics seemingly too, very educated, but Paul transformed
a couple things I'd like to address and this is going to take us into John the Baptist
in a way I think is important, because you tie in Jesus with John the Baptist in unique
ways and John the Baptist was named the Baptist for a reason, but Paul had a baptism and his
baptism was different it seems than the Jesus baptism or John the Baptist baptism.
Also the Eucharist, from what I understand it sounds very like a mystery school, you
can compare it to an Osiris cult that's consuming the body of their God or whatever might be
Dionysus, etc. etc.
So the early Jewish Jesus movement was radically different from Paul and can you tell us in
what ways and take us into, do your magic because they're going to do that?
Yeah well of course the word Christianity is one of the problems we have to address
when we say different from Jesus or he created Christianity, it's very circular because you
have to explain what do you mean by Christianity.
So keep that in mind as I talk, it's better to leave the labels out and just talk about
the sources that we have and if we do that, if we think of particularly the synoptic
Gospels in John, that's Matthew, Mark, Luke and John put together, we get a baptism, let's
start with baptism because that's first, we get a baptism for sure, it's called the baptism
of repentance for their emission of sins.
So it's different from the mikvah or the immersion ceremony that's typical within Judaism that
you find in the Hebrew Bible in the Torah where based upon ritual purity that mainly
has to do with whether you go up to the temple or whether you resume normal activities, there's
this idea of being what the anthropologist called the sacred in the profane, so purity
or cleanliness versus impurity.
The basic problem with it is language, it has nothing to do with dirt, so you could scrub
yourself raw with soap and lye and if you had touched a dead body, I'm talking about
Judaism now, you'd had sexual intercourse, even nocturnal omission for a male, menstruation
for a woman, you're quote, unclean.
You can read in the Torah how long you're unclean, typically it's 24 hours or something
like that, sometimes diseases take longer because you have to prove it's over, but the
word unclean in the King James got carried into all the translations and people think,
yeah those people are really dirty, because then it mentions you need to immerse yourself
or mikvah means pool, the gathering of waters, a mikvah is a gathering of waters, a pool
supposed to be flowing water ideally, there are many laws for mikvahs nowadays, but in
the ancient world probably the river would be the best, that's where John the Baptist
is baptizing in the river Jordan, so it's a perfect mikvah, so it's not a pool of water,
it's water moving.
Now what you would typically do then when your ritual purity is over is you would dip
in the water naked, you come back up, put your clothes on again, and then you're ritually
pure.
Typically in Jewish groups like the Comron group, the Dead Sea Scroll group, there's
a mikvah on the northwest side, it's one of the more beautiful mikvahs we have, it's been
excavated, and one side you go down and the other side you come up and you can clearly
see the division, and again you're not scrubbing, there's no soap, there's nothing of that
type, it's a simple act of going down, you kneel down, make sure your head is completely
covered, come up and then you can enter the camp and you're pure.
They're thinking of themselves at Comron as in a state of temple purity, even though the
temple is up in Jerusalem, which they consider to be defiled.
This gets extended in various ways today.
It's extended because there is no temple to just the Jewish household table fellowship,
the washing of hands, different things of that nature.
So that's the background of it.
So when John comes on the scene and he says you need to repent because the kingdom of
God is at hand, and then they go what do we do?
Repent and be baptized for the forgiveness of your sins.
There's no blood of Jesus, there's no, this is a physical act like any mikvah, but you're
going into the water to renew your soul.
Now this is covered by Josephus, which is interesting.
He also talks about the quote, Essenes, whether we want to call them that or not.
I rather just say the Dead Sea Scroll sect or group.
He says it's not for the outward cleansing, he makes sure the Gentile non-Jewish readers
don't think the Jews have some superstition about that.
He says, no, no, John was teaching, he has a section on John in the antiquities, actually
mentioned John the Bab, I like calling him the baptizer, John the Dipper.
It's Yelkanon, Hamatville, Hamatville means the one who dips you, but he's dipping you
for moral reform.
As Christian Baptists would say, it's the outward form of an inward grace.
That's the slogan that Baptists grew up with.
The water is not doing it, but if your heart, your repentance is true to God, it's a way
of marking.
It's almost like a wedding ceremony.
I'm wearing a wedding ring.
What did it mean?
I make my vows and then my wife puts the ring on like that.
That's the baptism.
The ring didn't make us marry.
The ring didn't change anything.
The ring even didn't make the legal.
That's the meaning of the vows, but it symbolized it and it represented it.
Then that baptized group is now a covenant people prepared for the way of the Lord and
they're waiting for the redemption to come and so forth.
They had various expectations that I'm not going to go into right now, but there's more
than one Messiah.
There's a Davidic Messiah, there's a priestly Messiah.
I think John was fulfilling the role of a priestly Messiah.
That just means anointed one or chosen one.
That was his baptism.
You by joining the movement, think of it as a movement, and it would be like, did you
accept the baptism of John?
Jesus asked that once of the Pharisees because a lot of them didn't.
He said, did you accept the baptism of John?
He says, was it from heaven or from men?
It was just something a religious leader made up.
We had other figures of the period, Simon of Peria, Judas the Galilean.
I don't know if they had a baptism or not, let's say they did.
Anybody that wants to follow me and agrees that I'm the guy, you should be dipped in
water and you should say, Judas the Galilean is the one, and that would be.
It wasn't the Holy Spirit, it wasn't cosmic salvation, it was joining the covenant group.
Now as John puts it, you're a people prepared for the Lord, you're ready for the redemption,
and it's a way of separating.
John's preaching and Jesus' preaching use the images of the winnowing fork.
This preaching is like throwing the wheat up in the air, the chaff, those who don't
accept, the wheat gets gathered and gets saved by God at the day of judgment.
So you are getting, quote, saved, but not in the way Paul later develops it, which I'll
explain.
So it's a Jewish reform movement signified by baptism.
Now Judaism picked that up in this sense that today when you convert to Judaism, if you're
a male you get circumcised.
If you're a male or a female, along with your bar mitzvah, bat mitzvah, your sort of declaration,
I'm joining the Jewish people and they warn you you'll be persecuted, do you really want
to join this people, and you know there's this formula, but you do go to the mitzvah.
Now that wouldn't be the ordinary mitzvah, like for menstruation or sexual intercourse,
that would be, that makes you a Jew, you know.
So there is this precedent, whether that was done in the first century or not sure, might
have been.
So we have Josephus, and then we have also in the Dead Sea Scrolls, the Essians talk
about their initiation in the community rule, one of the first scrolls found in Cave One,
and they say that you go into the water, not again, they say almost the same thing, it's
not for the cleansing of the body, it's the renewal of the heart.
So it is a spiritual experience, makes you a bona fide member of the group.
So later in the book of Acts, if you remember, is it Aquila and Priscilla, I believe, they
only knew the baptism of John, so they're out preaching, they're preaching, I think
they're preaching Jesus and John, maybe they're just preaching John, but it's the same movement.
So Jesus joins that movement and gets baptized, and what's really interesting, you know how
the Gospels go develop, this is probably the clearest sample, even more than the resurrection
narratives.
When you go to the earliest account of the baptism of Jesus, it's just like he goes down,
he gets baptized, he joins the movement, and the Holy Spirit says to him, personally, you
are my beloved son, you are, not this is, it's not a loudspeaker announcement, you're
my beloved son, okay, that's Mark.
And then you get to Matthew, and he goes, wait a minute, it's further mission of sins,
but Jesus is like divine, and he couldn't have sinned, so he puts in this thing that
John goes, oh, I don't know if this is for you or not, because you're the Son of God
and you're perfect, he's implying that.
And Jesus said, just do it to fulfill righteousness, like it's a good thing to do for the people,
yeah, I don't need it, but okay, see that development.
Then you go to Luke, and he doesn't even, he says, all the people were baptized, and
Jesus was baptized, and when he was praying, the Holy Spirit came on him, so like, wait
a minute, so all the people were baptized, Jesus got baptized, and then maybe the next
day, maybe, we don't know, because he always has Jesus praying, it's this thing, the praying
Jesus.
So he doesn't say that it's in the water or anything, so now it's becoming more less
and less to do with John, so yeah, he was baptized, but that wasn't what really gave
him the Holy Spirit, God did that.
And then the Gospel of John doesn't even say he was baptized, take a look.
It just says, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world, soon as he sees
him.
So now we've gone from Jesus joining the movement to he's the Lamb of God.
To John just nodding to it, like yes, there he is instead.
Now he does refer to it, I'm sorry, what I meant is it doesn't have an account of it.
He says, and the reason I'm saying this is I was told that the one upon whom I saw the
Holy Spirit come when he's baptized would be him, and so it's referring back, but not
giving the account, you see the difference, it's kind of removing it.
So what is Paul's baptism then, and then we can get into something else?
That's the thing that happens, and so here we got Aquila and Priscilla many, many years
later, and they don't know about this new baptism, and they meet Paul and other followers
of Paul, and they say, well, you need the baptism of the Holy Spirit, and they say, well, we
don't know what that is, and they're baptized in the name of Jesus by the Holy Spirit.
We're getting a little rainstorm here, but that's reality, as long as you don't get knocked
out, we'll keep going.
We're talking about water, right?
So Paul's, just from Acts, we wouldn't know too much, except it's, if you're baptized
by John, you need to get rebaptized in this new way.
Now what we're not told is any of the 12 apostles will take out Judas, the 11, actually, Matthias
comes in later, but it says he has to have begun with us with the baptism of John.
So all these guys have been baptized with John, they were disciples of John.
We know three or four of them are even said to be disciples of John, and then they joined
Jesus.
So did they ever get rebaptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the mission of sins and
receive the Holy Spirit?
We're not told.
On the day of Pentecost, they tell other people to do this, but maybe they didn't need to,
they're an exception or whatever.
So we wouldn't know more than that, I didn't like, oh, we got a new guy, and you really
need to do his name to make it clear he's the Messiah, he's at the right hand of God.
You're part of this movement, even though that movement took you to the door, now you're
in.
That's kind of how it sounds.
Then you get to Paul, Romans 6 particularly, also in the Deuteronial Paul lines, like Ephesians,
Colossians, you get more.
All of a sudden it's Mystical Union, I have a chapter on it as you know in my book, it's
Mystical Union with Christ, and it's certified by baptism and taking the body and blood of
Jesus in a sacred meal.
And both of those things unite you, Koinia, the fellowship with Christ.
So you're baptized with Christ, buried with Christ, raised with Christ, and you get the
idea, I don't think he thinks it's magical necessarily, but his baptism is the baptism
that really does initiate you into the cosmic thing that I've talked about a lot, cosmic
salvation.
You do need to do that as a way of entering into this new mystical community called the
body of Christ.
So by one spirit, he says we're all baptized into one body.
It's actually baptized into the body.
So it's an initiation, right?
Now did the other apostles teach that?
That's the thing I want, because you know, if you don't mind me pausing for one second,
in our previous lectures we did, we did the scholarly approach.
We started with the earliest, and we say Paul, and then we worked with the gospels.
Well here is where it gets real tricky, because you have, you're going to the gospels to see,
we know John the Baptist historically existed.
We have Josephus accounting in which, why he was killed.
This is a real guide that was obviously a noble man, even Josephus calls him this.
He sees him as a good Jew.
This man who's practicing these things that we see in the earlier gospels, and even throughout
all the gospels.
He shows up in all of them.
So the guy existed.
There's a real thing here.
Some scholars want to say Jesus wasn't part of it.
I want to stay focused on Paul into what did the other disciples actually teach about this,
but I wanted to lay the groundwork for everyone to see what we just did, was we started with
the gospels to let you see John, because Paul doesn't talk about John the Baptist, it's
a matter of leadership.
In this case, the earliest is the latest.
It's not always true.
But in this case it is, because it developed later, at least that's my thesis.
I don't think James or any of the 12 knew anything about this Paulian baptism, and that's
why the book of Acts has a little bit of a problem, because they were baptized by John,
but you never get them baptized again.
But then from that day forward, Jesus is in heaven at the right hand of God, John's dead,
and he's minimized, and he is minimized even in the synoptics.
But he's also maximized in particularly what we call the sayings material, some people call it Q.
But Luke and Matthew have this teachings of Jesus that Mark doesn't have, and that material,
he's greater than Jesus.
For example, Jesus says, what did you go out to see?
And this is earlier than the framework of these gospels, it's an earlier source.
And he goes, a prophet?
You went out to see a prophet?
More than a prophet.
And then he says, this is the guy that Malachi spoke of who's going to bring the redemption.
So he's not just a prophet, he's more than a prophet.
He's one of the final Redeemer figures.
There's two final Redeemer figures.
There's a priestly figure that's more like a Moses or Aaron figure, and then there's a
Davidic figure.
And he basically says, he's that guy.
And then, and he's going to cleanse the sons of Levi, I remember all of that.
And Malachi three, and also Malachi four a little bit, but mostly chapter three.
And so that had to be earlier, that idea.
And Paul comes in later.
Now, does that mean that James and the other apostles and even the people in Jerusalem
didn't have the Pauline baptism?
According to Acts, they did it in the name of Jesus, Acts 238, repent and be baptized
in the name of Jesus Christ, for a mission of sins.
That I'm not convinced in 30, 40, 50, they were doing.
Maybe they were saying something like, you know, I believe Jesus is the Messiah, or
I mean, it was obvious they're doing it because they're joining the Messianic movement.
But I think they're joining a movement that includes John in Jesus, it's the same movement.
It's not segregated.
John then later is absolutely just sidelined, even in the Gospels.
But Jesus also says in that cue source or that saying source, it says, among those born
of women, there's none greater than John.
And the original part of that, from what we can understand, didn't have the caveat after
like, but the least in the kingdom is greater than even John.
But either way, even with it, among those born of women, there's none greater than
John.
Jesus was born of a woman.
So hey, in my book, The Jesus Dynasty, I argue that John is Jesus' teacher.
I believe Jesus learned from John.
Their teachings in John, of John the Baptist, not in the Gospel, John, but in the synoptics,
in this cue source again, where John will say, for example, let him who has two coach
share with him who has one.
You ask anybody, they'll go, who taught that?
That's Jesus, sir, on the mountain, that's John, it's in John.
Only Luke preserves it, Matthew takes it out.
And so he has other things like that where John is, they're teaching the same message,
I think.
Now later there is a split, we see it in the book of Acts, and did you know that the Mandians
in Iraq today still follow John the Baptist, and they have even turned negative on Jesus,
and they say him as a kind of a false prophet that came and polluted the movement.
They probably mean Paul.
They're kind of like the Ibnites later, they're not like the Ibnites, but this idea that they're
identifying Paul as kind of a negative figure, and Jesus is positive.
And this group's doing, John the Baptist is positive, and Jesus is negative, because
the Christian movement started persecuting them, so they say, oh, you're a guy.
So they're not sophisticated enough to talk about the historical Jesus would have liked
us.
Let me ask you this, the last thing I got, and we'll go, the Eucharist idea, it seems
like Passover would be what the Jews that followed Jesus would have practiced, I mean
they would have.
Yeah, for sure.
International.
And also just the blessing of bread and wine at every meal, as a fellowship meal.
When you come together, you always break bread with prayers, you know, you do baruka,
tato naia, lohenu, melika, lama, mochi, like a menorah, it's, you know, it's blessing the
bread, blessing the wine at every meal, particularly on the Sabbath.
So that would be the regular practice of breaking bread in a spiritual way.
Do you think it was a Gentile thing on purpose that Paul's doing, or do you think Paul practices
some strange mystery?
Well, what he says is that he got it, what he gives with the body and blood, he says
I got it from, I received it from the Lord.
And then he gives exactly what Mark has in the synoptics.
Luke repeats it, and John doesn't, he has another version, he doesn't have the last
supper.
So in my book, Paul and Jesus, and in the Jesus dynasty, I argue that Paul invented
the Eucharist the way we know it now.
I don't know how to explain that, except that he says he got it by revelation, but he also
claims that Jesus did that on the night he was betrayed.
And if you read my book, Paul and Jesus, I go into this.
Luke shows that he knows two stories, he has two cups.
One cup is not the blood of Jesus, isn't that, but it's still there.
And I show in the book how you can divide the sources.
And you can see that Luke is taking Mark's Pauline source, remember, Mark is very Pauline,
and doing the body-blood stuff, but he's still got this other cup in his earlier sorts.
It's like, no, he blessed the cup for the kingdom of God, you know, it's, when you,
it's in Comron, Comron has these same, Dead Sea Scrolls have these same texts, where the
Messiah comes, it says he sits at the head of the table with the priest, and they blessed,
they blessed the bread and the wine for the Messianic community.
This is the original Eucharist.
How do we know?
We have one surviving Christian text.
If we didn't have this, it'd be like, ah, Tabor, you're speculating, you don't know that.
It's called the Dedicat, means the teaching.
The whole name is teaching the twelve apostles.
And lo and behold, what do we find in chapter 14 of the Dedicat, beautiful, wonderful book,
and it's non-Pauline.
It's completely, it's like the book of James, reminds you of the book of James, it's non-Pauline.
And it says, when you celebrate the Eucharist, take bread, and it symbolizes the people of
God scattered and eating one loaf, you know, unity of the table, which is very Jewish.
We all break the loaf, but we're all one.
That's the meaning of the one loaf.
And then he says, and when you do the vine, the grape juice, the wine, it's the vine
of God's servant David, you know, in this case Jesus, the Messiah.
So it becomes a Messianic meal, but nobody in blood.
I don't think it's possible to imagine James and the others drinking a ritual meal in which
anything represents blood, because just the idea of drinking blood, you know, some, you
can say, well, it's symbolic, symbolic.
You don't do things like that symbolic when they're so forbidden in the Torah.
It's even named in Acts 15.
You've got to stain from fornication, idolatry, and blood.
But let's have a ceremony where we pretend to, I don't want to offend people that believe
in it in a serious way.
I understand.
I grew up in an evangelical church, so I respect people's devotion, but I'm just saying that
doesn't mean I have to agree that the Jerusalem community, I'm not even going to call them
the church, let's call them the Yaqad, Yaqad's the Hebrew word, that the Skol group means
that together, the community, commune, community, the community, the James community, I do not
believe historically they knew about this or partook of it.
Now, if you want to get wild and speculate, like we have done a little bit, what if James
found out not only is Paul teaching the Jews, maybe, that they don't have to really keep
all the Torah, not that they're immoral, but like all these rules, you don't have to necessarily
follow.
Eat a little pork.
I mean, come on.
What's the body?
It's going to be gone soon anyway.
Okay.
Maybe that.
But what if he also heard, and they're doing some strange thing where they're doing bread
and wine and talking about eating and drinking the blood of Jesus and his eating his body.
I think, I mean, I'm sorry, I just, that would be, I just think he would have probably thought
what are you talking about?
That would be a good reason to question Paul, yeah, for sure.
Now we have no sources on that, but we have the dedicated, we have Paul, now where I really
got into trouble, everyone wants to say when Paul says I received that it's from the community.
So if he says I received from the Lord, they don't read it as the Lord, they read it as
I got it from, like in 1 Corinthians 15, I'm telling you the gospel I received, how
that Christ died, buried, raised, peered to Peter, James, so forth, they go, that means
the community passed this on, Parah did am I, pass on the tradition.
All the scholars just about agree with that, except for me, maybe I hope somebody agrees
something out there who's a scholar, but it doesn't matter.
Here's 1 Corinthians 11, where he's given this very new thing that I know did not get
passed, I just don't think it was passed on.
He says the Lord, he says I got this from the Lord, so whatever experience he's having,
and who am I to judge, like I'm not going to judge his, maybe he's talking to the resurrected
Jesus, Christians believe that, but he said I received this from the Lord, that on the
night he betrayed, he took bread.
Now is he saying that that night Jesus said this is my body, or is he basically telling
us, like I'm giving you what that really meant, that you are taking, and I don't think it's
pagan in the sense of like, you know, the mystery religions, but it is in the sense
that what you're doing is you want Christ in you, and by doing this ritual you're taking
Christ in you, just as you were baptized into Christ, now he is into you, and there's this
sense of union.
It means a lot to people, these ritual experiences, it really does, even today.
People take communion, and then Paul brilliantly says, examine yourself, well now all of a
sudden it becomes this moral inventory thing, well that can be very beneficial to me, people.
Let's say you take the mass, or you take communion once a week, or every day, wow, who's going
to criticize that?
I'm thinking Jesus died for my sins, his broken body has shed blood, and I've really
behaved badly.
I am so sorry, and I want to renew my covenant.
It's a beautiful thing to people, so I don't want to knock that, I'm talking as a historian.
We get that.
Paul originated it.
Thank you.
And I can't tell you where he got it.
