Ladies and gentlemen, Derek Lambert, I'm your host, the host of MythVision podcast.
Today I have Dr. James D. Tabor, living legend, Bible scholar, joining us today to discuss
Dead Sea Scrolls and Jesus again.
But we're going to cover a topic in a unique way that we didn't before, hoping to get
people to support the work of what Dr. Tabor is doing by signing up for the course and
joining the Zoom conversations, becoming a student.
And welcome back again, Dr. Tabor.
Good to be with you.
So we've got a good one today.
We're going to keep going on the teacher.
And in the previous one, we talked about his career, you know, kind of like the life and
times of the teacher.
What little tidbits can we gather together from the Dead Sea Scrolls?
So today we're going to delve into something very controversial, suffering Messiah's.
Before we get into this, I, once you're on a roll, Dr. Tabor, I don't even, I try not
to even interject.
You're welcome to interrupt me, but I don't like doing that because you have your pliminaries.
So what you're saying is more valuable than what I have to say on this.
That's how I view it.
But I do want to say up from that I recently was interviewed talking about Enoch and I
mentioned this on our discussion earlier on the phone.
And the more I look into this second first century BCE versions of Judaism, the more
I see and call me crazy, but the more I see elements of Jesus and Paul's types of ideas.
And I'm thinking, wow, I mean, I can't definitively say what Jesus really did historically, but
if we're granting what we're reading in some elements of what the gospels portray him as
and how Paul is depicting his world, I see this as like the ancestral idea being passed
down to them.
So if we want to understand Jesus better, I think it's good to understand the teacher
of righteousness and these versions of Judaism's that are like proto versions of Christianity,
what eventually becomes Christianity.
So I just want to say I value your work for that.
And you're not trying to, Jesus is the teacher of righteousness or go all the way.
He is exactly as seen just like them.
You're being very nuanced and careful in how you categorize these things.
And so I think that's something we should be respectable in looking at.
Right. And, you know, we often say in the scholarly world, Judaism's to just make the
point to the general audience that often think, Oh, what was Judaism like in the time of Jesus
or a hundred years before the time of Jesus or 200 years during the time of the Maccabees?
And we have texts and sources on that.
Some of them are in what people call the apocryphal like the Maccabees texts, wisdom of Solomon,
in Sirach, some of those texts are even in a Catholic Bible.
And then we've got a whole thick collection of texts that we call Sudaprigafro, which
is really horrible name.
It means false writings.
And it just means that they weren't accepted into the canon of either the Hebrew Bible
or the New Testament.
But we've got quite a few things even before the Dead Sea Scrolls, but the Dead Sea Scrolls
are truly the motherload.
We would be as Paul or somebody once said in the New Testament, we would be of all men
most miserable if we didn't have the Dead Sea Scrolls, because it fills in for us a movement,
a messianic movement in the Holy Land that rises about a hundred years before the time
of Jesus and flourishes.
And we've got the library of this group, not the complete library, it's fragmented.
But just to have any of it and even complete scrolls, and we're going to talk about one
today that we think goes back to the teacher himself.
So some scholars have called this Enochian Judaism from the book of Enoch, particularly
remember our Enoch, which comes from the Ethiopic version, other than fragments here
and there, it's divided into five books.
But the first book is what we normally think of as standard Enoch.
And that first book actually does give us kind of a matrix, a lot of concern about the
heavens and the layers of heaven and how the cosmos operates as you move up and down.
The underworld and what's going on there, and that cultural world, that religious world,
that conceptual world of the period, we have tremendous light shed upon it, new light in
terms of the Dead Sea Scrolls, because they're living within that.
They talk constantly about Belial, that's their way of referring to Satan or the devil.
And not in the old Hebrew view of just somebody that opposes God or counsel for the prosecution
in a court case like Job.
Now, this is a wicked guy, he doesn't have a tail and a pitchfork, but wicked spirits
in heavenly places.
And when you read Paul's genuine letters, he's just overflowing with this kind of stuff
about demons and I was prevented from this and Satan opposes me in Galatians.
He says Satan's the God of this world.
He talks about principalities, powers, heights, depths.
And we don't have this directly in the Gospels from Jesus' own mouth, but he alludes to those
things in ways that help us to realize whoever we're reflecting within our New Testament
Gospels, particularly Q and the synoptics, is coming out of the same worldview.
It's apocalyptic, it's messianic, but it's cosmological.
I sent you a link earlier called The Bad Idea that took over the world.
It's actually a blog post, so if you could call that up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is DrJamesDTaymore.com.
Go to his website because sign up for the email.
Sign up for the newsletter if you want and it's got a good search feature.
But I can't read it here on the screen, but you'll see, I talk about my teacher Jonathan
Smith and how I learned that all religions of the period are Hellenized.
And we've tended to think of, oh, if I see a pagan deity or if I see this kind of artwork
or something, that's Hellenistic and then everything else is Judaism.
But what Smith has shown is that there's a shift in the ancient Near East and in the
Mediterranean world that's international and Jews are affected as much as other cultures.
And it has to do with this vastly expanded universe in which God or the gods, the good
powers who are way beyond this world and we're in the lowest, darkest part of the world.
And in this video, I think it has like a couple of hundred thousand views.
You can probably see a few.
I've just shared the link so everybody can go to this.
They can go to the link.
But the blog post link is important too because I introduce it.
That's what I mentioned in the first line.
You can probably see it talking about dualistic forms of Inokian.
So by Inokian, we just mean the kind of matrix, the cosmological assumptions about what is
the universe and how is it set up and what is our place within it.
And it it merges into forms of Gnosticism and Gnosticism.
You're mainly asking who am I and what am I and how did I get here and so forth.
So anyway, I just want to mention that link.
But then we got the course.
The court.
Yeah.
I just want to mention up front.
Sign up for the course.
I pinned that comment and become a student.
Join live with Dr. Tabor and the zoom conference calls that are coming up.
He's doing them with students for both the mark and Dead Sea Scroll.
We're really mainly focused on Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls now, but I just want
to encourage people.
And one thing I want to comment if I made James, too, is just bringing up again.
I mentioned this on our call Paula Fredrickson, amazing Dr. Fredrickson.
I went and visited in person and privileged.
I really am.
No one's ever done that as a YouTuber, maybe NBC or ABC of these big documentary channels
have.
But I visited her and I brought up into rights work her review and she said, can we wait
to the end?
I don't want to ruin my day.
But responding to this like realized eschatology, she literally goes in exactly what you're
talking about.
But what about all those cosmic powers?
She says.
Yes.
What about every archaic, exusia and dynamos whom the victorious returning Christ had
yet to defeat first Corinthians 15-24 and the theos of this aeon was blinding the minds
of unbelievers, the archaic and dynamos that grown along with all creation.
The resurrection of the dead and transformation of living, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
is the day before the day of the Lord, et cetera.
She goes into and pretty much rips in the new one, but I just had to mention that as
we.
Okay.
Yeah.
Paula's, you know, a lot of us were influenced by Jonathan Smith by Peter Brown, famous article,
The Holy Man and Late Antiquity.
And we learned in graduate school to consider the cosmos and as you don't just jump in a
text, you want to know what was the worldview of that text.
The air is thick with powers.
And then what happens when you go down into the lower world and essentially it's to place
yourself as a human being.
Where are we?
What are we?
The classic Gnostic question.
And we don't even need the label Gnostic.
It's the classic human question.
But in the Hellenistic world, it would be like from whence did we come to what have we fallen?
What is death?
What is birth?
What is rebirth?
And so forth.
So you get all these things about death and rebirth and sometimes referred to as resurrection
and heavenly glorification.
So the scrolls are just our new example when they were discovered in the 1940s into the
1950s of a apocalyptic messianic group that is preparing the way in the wilderness, referring
to prophecies and so forth, and trying to fulfill them.
I want to say on that Zoom meeting, normally I do Zooms with the course I'm current with
and that was Mark, early part of the year, and we did, I think, eight months of Mark.
Okay, now I've gone to the Dead Sea Scroll course.
But for this coming meeting on Sunday, the 28th of January, the Mark students are invited
too.
And the reason I wanted to include them, first of all, to encourage them to sign up for the
Dead Sea Scroll course, I sort of like, it's like, and when I was teaching full time in
the university, I'd have a cadre of students that kind of went along with me and got more
and more advanced.
So you know, they took the Mark course and they take a Dead Sea Scroll course.
So I think about half of our Mark students haven't signed up for the Dead Sea Scroll course.
And I don't think it's because they didn't like the Mark course.
I get the impression that most of them like it a lot.
So why would I invite them?
Well, I want them to sign up, okay, I'll be transparent, but you know, what the other
reason is, and this was also the December meeting, is we're talking about a messianic
figure that begins to see suffering and probably even dying as part of his destined fate based
on reading himself into the text of the book of Isaiah, the so-called suffering servant
songs.
They're found in chapter 42, chapter 50, chapter 49, and then 52 through 3.
Everybody knows 53, if you were raised as a Christian, about he was wounded for our transgressions,
he was bruised for our iniquity, we esteemed him not, we despised him and so forth.
People for centuries have asked, who is that?
And one answer is, it's the nation of Israel.
But in these particular four hymns, it gets individual as well.
It's first person in a couple of them, where the servant speaks and says, I, I, I, as opposed
to Israel as the people.
So he's someone within the people of Israel, and Jesus appropriated some of those texts
as well.
And he's quoted in the New Testament, particularly Isaiah 53 is alluded to.
So I wanted the Mark students to come too, because we're dealing with this idea of another
figure a hundred years before Jesus, reading his Isaiah.
And by the way, we have the Isaiah scroll from cave one.
And we also have the Thanksgiving hymns that I'm going to talk about today.
It's another scroll from cave one, there were 11 caves altogether.
So cave one is the first cave.
And there were seven scrolls in one of the jars in that cave, and they're fairly complete.
And one of them is a copy of Isaiah, and it's got these interesting little marks in the
margin where someone reading it might be marking their Bible.
Can you imagine that?
We're not sure.
But if you look at where those little marks are, it could very well be someone thinking,
now this is really a key passage to think about, what does that mean?
And so, fortunately with this teacher, we may have something better than just speculation.
I've got it printed out here.
And if you sign up for the course, you get this.
But this is a section of the Thanksgiving hymns.
There are 40 Thanksgiving hymns, that's too many to cover today.
But there are nine, some people say nine, some people say 10, nine or 10 of them in the middle.
They're usually numbered 10 through 17.
You actually have the teacher speaking in such a singular autobiographical way that many scholars
refer to these as the teacher hymns, meaning either he wrote them or someone wrote them
in his name in the first person.
And they begin to have a different character because he begins to talk about himself.
And one of the things he does is he picks up on the language of that suffering servant
material in the book of Isaiah, as if he's drinking it in and appropriating it and maybe
beginning to interpret his own life, career and destiny in the light of the servant songs.
And they say things like, I was not esteemed.
I was rejected.
A man of sorrow is acquainted with grief and so forth.
If you'll bear with me, I've marked just a few things to read from this quickly.
And I'm going to do it fast, where I can just go through and read them quickly.
This is the teacher.
So I want you to kind of close your eyes and think, are we going back first century BCE?
I would date him.
Maybe the first three quarters or excuse me, the first quarter of the first century BC.
This is live, but I can edit that later.
And I want you to imagine a person reading these texts and then appropriating the language
and thinking, this is me.
He says, you, you as God, you've appointed me an object of shame and derision to the
faithless, but truth and understanding to the upright.
The wicked have stormed against me, but you've appointed me as an inside to the chosen.
You see how he thinks that he's special.
He's been appointed in a very special way.
You've made my face to shine with your eternal glory.
He then talks about somebody delivering a male child through the pangs of shio and from
the womb of a pregnant one, a wonderful counselor with his strength.
That's a messianic title from Isaiah nine, member, wonderful counselor.
He apparently thinks he's that counselor.
You've redeemed my soul from the pit from shio and Abaddon.
You've raised me up to an eternal height that I might walk on a limitless plane.
I'm going to read just a few more here.
I want you to get the language.
I seek you and as an enduring dawning as perfect light, you've revealed yourself to me.
So any pious person could say some of that, but it begins to get more and more specific.
Listen to this.
It's right out of Isaiah.
Neither did they esteem me when you displayed your might through me.
Instead they drove me from my land.
He's an exile, like a bird from the nest.
All my friends and acquaintances have been driven away from me.
They esteem me as a ruined vessel.
He's talking about being rejected.
They esteem me not though you display your might through me.
Let's see through me, through me notice, we've illuminated the face of many.
That reference to the many is also from Isaiah 53.
You strengthened them uncountable times.
Listen to this.
You've given me understanding of the mysteries of your wonder in your wondrous counsel.
He talks about his suffering.
You've not abandoned me to the pit.
I read that just a few more.
You've concealed me from humankind and hidden me until the time.
So he, you know, the fullness of time, he thinks that he's been sent.
Even those who share my bread have lifted up their heel against me.
Does that remind you of anything?
You know, his own, and he talks about my own counsel and so forth.
But as we, I'm going to skip ahead because there's just so many here.
You've appointed me as a holy counsel to the weary.
You've taught me your covenant.
My tongue is one of your disciples.
Now people can go back and hear the other live we did earlier this week, I think, or
was it last week?
No, it was last week, I believe.
Yeah, last week was Friday, I think, and I gave you his whole career where he talks
about being rejected, being cast out of Jerusalem, going into exile.
We think out by the Dead Sea, but he then begins to talk about how from the womb you've
known me, you've set me apart from the womb you've known me, Isaiah 49.
Call me from the womb.
The apostle Paul quotes that too.
But toward the end, here's what we get.
This is in a fragment of the Thanksgiving hymns.
It's in cave four.
He says, there's none comparable to me in glory.
I've been, I'm a mighty throne in the congregation of angels I have sat upon.
There's no one comparable to me in glory.
No one shall be exalted beside me.
None shall come against me.
For I dwell on high in the heavens, and there's no one, I'm reckoned, no one else, and I'm
reckoned with the angels, and my abode is in the holy congregation.
That is the mode.
I would say out of all the things you've said so far, that was like Jesus 1.0.
I mean, that was like, I am the one who said that, you know, and this is why I want the
Gospel Mark students to get into this and dive into it if they haven't taken the Dead
Sea Scroll class, or and you can come to the zoom this Sunday, whether you've taken it
or not, because I want us to talk about the kind of consciousness, you know, the self-consciousness
of somebody who begins to think, I'm the one, I'm the final revelator.
And remember what this one is supposed to do is gather all of Israel to him to bring
about the redemption and so forth.
And so he's really an amazing figure.
I'm going to pause a second and be sure I keep getting little beeps.
I don't hear it, but if I may comment on that and just point out, it makes me, there's
several things that come to mind, but one is how we have models of cognitive dissonance
explanation for like, well, what happened is Jesus didn't know he was going to die.
He dies.
And then after the fact, you know, the followers found a way to insert him into the scriptures.
And if, if this hymn is from the teacher of righteousness himself, and there is a tradition
which somehow gets passed along and finds influence among Jews, especially by the time
of Jesus, here is this other messianic claimant who's identifying like the teacher of righteousness
with these ideas, which to me is less ad hoc.
It makes more sense.
This guy knew what he was doing as he was bucking against the system.
Albert Schweitzer once said, you know, he fought against the will of the will of time
and it came back and crushed him.
This happens to be what looks like happening to the teacher of righteousness under almost
similar, but different circumstances.
And I wanted to ask you about that was from what I was reading with Boca Chini, and that
is a scholar talking about Enoch and the teacher of righteousness and stuff, is that there's
a Zadokite priest movement that this group of the teacher of righteousness and their
followers almost become the elect within the elect.
They kind of shows the sons of light and other Jews, they think are apostate.
They refer to them as, you know, unfaithful tribes that went away from God, even though
they're Jewish, and they think the Jerusalem temple is corrupt and they think the priests
are corrupt, and they denounce the Jewish establishment of their time.
Sounds like Jesus.
Sounds like Jesus.
Now it's a real question.
Let's stay with Mark as our earliest record of this material.
Jesus in chapter eight starts breaking the surprising shocking news to the disciples
that just knocks them over and Peter being the spokesperson even rebukes Jesus when
he hears it as if to say, and I don't know the words, but he probably said, no, no, no,
no, we're going to Jerusalem and we're taking over and you've proclaimed the kingdom of
God and we're going to rule and reign and get rid of these bastards in Jerusalem and
the wicked are going to be punished in the Righteous of Triumph.
And all of a sudden he goes, well, actually first look at John the Baptist.
They did to him what was written of him.
That's what he says in chapter nine of Mark, what was written of him.
So now that could be Mark, the author of Mark, after the fact, as you said, creating a Jesus
who's filled with the concepts of a suffering servant who's not esteemed, rejected, despised
and cast out and even perhaps killed.
We'll get to that because we're not sure if he was killed.
But no, even if he comes to the gates of Sheol, which he talks about, I read, you know, you
brought me to the pit of Sheol and then he comes back up.
There's a fine line between today you'll be with me in paradise.
That's Luke's version of the cross, remember, and he breathed his last.
If the next second you're redeemed, have you kind of been raised from the pit?
You see the idea?
So people say, yeah, but Jesus died and he was forsaken by God.
And then three days later, you know, they saw him and all that.
Well, that's the Christian narrative, of course, in the Gospel of Mark.
A bunch of us are convinced, I say a bunch of us, quite a few scholars are convinced
that resurrection is apotheosis, meaning there was a faith that Jesus was exalted to the
heavens just like this guy.
No one is like him.
He's sitting at a throne among the Elohim exalted at the top.
That's pretty extraordinary.
But it wouldn't be a body going around in Jerusalem for what, 50 days after, as the
book of Acts has it, or the book of Luke.
It would be more Mark's view of a transfigured entity.
That's what Mark nine is about, you know, where they see him in glory, Moses, Elijah.
It's like a vision of the kingdom of God, a proleptic realization of the kingdom.
So they're into the glory.
Oh, are they?
They're all ready to go down and take over the buildings.
You know, look, master, at these beautiful buildings and palaces, we're all going to
be there.
And remember, they're fighting the whole time on the way to Jerusalem.
Who's going to be first?
Who's going to be on the right and left hand?
And Jesus and Mark keeps saying, wait, wait, wait, I think you skipped some chapters in
Isaiah about being rejected, being, you know, strut or Zachariah, strike the shepherd and
the sheep will be scattered and that kind of thing.
And then Jerusalem is surrounded by armies.
And then the kingdom of God comes.
So here's the question.
Did Mark or the followers of Jesus, after he's dead, complete surprise where they were
sure he would not even be crucified.
But if he's going to be crucified, he's suddenly going to call the legions of angels and crushes
enemies with earthquakes and so forth, all kinds of glory, and then take over the world,
you know, kick the Romans out, set up the kingdom of God, offer eternal life to his
followers and so forth.
So is that the way it was?
Or did he begin in his own life to begin to think about, I don't know, maybe the path
is first suffering and then glory, and that's how Mark puts it.
And that's the big stumbling block of Mark.
Like when is the kingdom coming?
How is the kingdom coming?
And Jesus and Mark keeps saying, well, first you get a little seed and then you get a leaf
and then you get kind of a full plant and finally a huge tree, as if it's, I'm planting
a seed, but it's not going to just spring up tomorrow.
You know, it has to kind of germinate and grow and achieve its time and its time that
will come.
So if we have an example in the Dead Sea Scrolls of this teacher, and I've just read you for
some of the teacher hymns, he seems to have that idea, or I grant this, his followers might
have put it in his mouth.
Right.
Right.
Right.
You got to be fair.
However, when you read it, this is like, we don't have Jesus' diary, right?
This is like the guy's diary.
Exactly.
I mean, it literally looks like his own meditations in a very personal way, like he says things
like, my father and mother abandoned me, but you, oh Lord, took me up.
Oh, we don't know like anything autobiographically about his parents or something.
We do know, according to Josephus, that people would give their children over to the ones
he calls the Essenes that we sometimes identify with the Dead Sea Scroll Group.
He might have been talking about something like that as a child where his parents said,
I want you to be going to this very, very high spiritual headquarters of our movement,
so we're going to give you over as a young child, and you can translate abandoned in
a real harsh way like, get out of here kid, we don't even want you, but more like, gave
me over to, let me be raised by your people, but you lifted me up.
So I want the students to actually read the scrolls.
It's so great.
You know, everybody's heard of the scrolls.
Everybody talks about them.
If people have heard of them, they say, oh, isn't it great?
We have the scrolls, but what about reading them?
And in the course, we look at translations, of course, of the core scrolls.
And what do we have?
10 lectures.
I take you all through them, talk about every aspect of the scroll group, as well as some
of these remarkable parallels, but what we're going to do Sunday is particularly talk about
what was his career, and what can we say about him, and if he was pursued and persecuted
by the priests in Jerusalem, including the high priest, according to one text that we
covered last time in your life session, did that go as far as having him killed?
And that we're not sure of.
He definitely died, but did they kill him, or did he finally just die?
Did he die of diseases?
Did he die of weakness?
He describes within these Thanksgiving hymns, these teacher hymns, he describes himself
as just kind of falling apart bodily somehow.
Was that from his suffering?
Was that from something in his life that we don't know about?
We just don't have records of that.
But it does say in Isaiah 53 that the suffering servant will bear our diseases, as it's called,
meaning our ailments, our frailties, our weaknesses, and he seems to have this constitution of
talking about himself as, you know, I'm weak and I'm forsaken and I'm forlorn, but you
lift me up.
It almost sounds like you could even take it as a self-fulfilling kind of thing as well.
You know how monks purposely put themselves in, you know, self-harmed actions, and you
wonder if this philosophical school of thought that is an elect chosen within an elect chosen
and they're in their own mind and they're thinking the end is right around the corner
and that he's self-fulfilling, putting himself into a potential—
This is what happens to all the messiahs we know about, and I'm using messiahs, I explained
last time very generically, just the key core redemptive figure, anointed by the Spirit,
however, and then you can have a priestly messiah, a Davidic messiah, and so forth.
But this most exalted messiah, David calls Lord in one of the Psalms, Psalm 2, remember,
in Psalm 110, so you have these two messianic Psalms, Psalm 2 and Psalm 110, and the idea
seems to be that Jesus mentions this in the Gospel of Mark, it's his last question.
He says, you say the messiahs of David, but why would David, then, his father, his ancestor
call his lord, L-O-R-D, why does he call him master?
And they don't know the answer to that.
He seems to be implying there are many messiahs, every priest is a messiah, there have been
various people that have thought they were anointed by God, but there's going to be
a final messiah.
Now I wanted to mention this book, you know, why would I promote somebody else's book?
Because it's so wonderful.
Michael Wise, the first messiah, investigating the Savior before Christ.
I'm really recommending this to the Dead Sea School students.
You don't have to buy it, it's not required for the course.
Anyway, what Michael begins to do in that book is to show you all of these passages and how
they're appropriated and how he really is an exalted figure above even a Davidic messiah.
You know, like he says in the text I just read, none of those who sit upon thrones can
compare to me, because I have a throne in the heavens.
You see this guy, well Jesus, if he believed that he was going to be exalted to the heavens
and receive glory like in Mark, the Transfiguration, where Moses and Elijah and Jesus are in an
altered, transformed state and he thought that was his destiny.
I think it's likely that it goes back to the historical Jesus.
I don't think about other messiahs we know that Josephus mentions, there's probably a
dozen of them.
They all get killed, right.
But if you don't believe in gathering arms, gathering your followers into a kind of armed
resistance and fighting and dying that way, but you're arrested and you don't resist.
See this is the thing, remember Isaiah 53, every Christian knows this.
Like a lamb led to the slaughter, he opens not his mouth.
So he's not drug kicking and screaming to the cross, cursing his enemies and saying,
God, we'll get you soon.
Right, right, right.
In fact, in the Gospel of Luke, he forgives his enemies.
And in our earliest teachings of Jesus, love your enemies, do good to those that persecute
you.
In some ways, strikes you hard on the one cheek, turn the other and so forth.
And so he does seem to be different.
And this figure, I don't know that he would say, don't resist your enemies because we
have a scroll about how the sons of light are going to defeat the sons of darkness.
But a lot of it is God on your side.
You know, when you read that scroll, I mean, they're not going to be able to fight 20 Roman
legions with their own strength.
So it could be that Jesus, maybe the teacher, they realized they're going to go before the
end, and yet they believe that God will exalt them.
And I would even go to the Apostle Paul, there, Romans 8 particularly, where Paul is talking
about the glorification of that he's expecting and all of the followers, this heavenly glorification
that he proleptically experienced when he was taken up to heaven and entered paradise.
I wrote my dissertation on that.
In my book, Paul's Ascent to Paradise that people can read, it's all about that.
But what does he say in Romans 8?
We will be glorified with him, sounds like Mark, provided we suffer with him.
So what does Jesus say in Mark?
You want to follow me?
I'm going to the cross.
Take up a cross and follow.
And if you become a servant, he says, a servant, that means a slave, become the least.
Then you'll be exalted.
So the great will become low and the low will become high.
You get that kind of reversal that you see many places in the New Testament.
So you're getting that also in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
And it's in Isaiah 53.
Remember how it ends?
Because the guy is suffering and dying and finally even buried.
For this reason, he's been highly exalted and he's been given this position.
Reminds you of that Philippians hymn, you know, a name above every name.
I mean, it's almost like I just read your version of Philippians too.
Right.
You know the name, Morton Smith.
I'll never forget in the nineties, Morton Smith got hold of this scroll that I just
read that you said you were most impressed with.
Yeah, that was the one.
It's 42491.
Yeah.
He got hold of it before it was published.
And oh, wow, he thought, finally, my whole thesis that I've worked on in terms of Jesus,
he called it the magician.
But what he means is the cosmic, one with the cosmic power to work his way through the
heavens has been vindicated because we actually have a text of a guy now before Jesus who
said, you know, this is what I'm all about.
Right.
He gave a paper, I remember, at the Society of Biblical Literature in the American Macabre
Religion.
And you know what he said?
He got up.
I'll never forget it.
This is Morton Smith.
If you know his name, here's his personality.
He slams his fist on the podium like this.
Hear that?
Oh, yeah.
Cock-a-doodle-doo.
I told you that he holds up a copy of the text that he'd gotten from the person who was
translating it, and he said, this is the teacher, and he's been exalted to a throne in heaven.
Now, when that scroll finally was released, the photographs, Michael Wise and I grabbed
it, 4Q, 491, and we published it.
And it has this whole idea about a glorified Messiah, the Messiah who rules heaven and
earth, you see.
And that was actually another scroll than the one Morton Smith boated, but we began
to deal with those exaltation hymns, and we published it in a scholarly journal as well
as a popular journal, Biblical Archaeology Review.
So pretty fabulous stuff.
I have one question, and then we have several, we have 12 Superchats.
We'll take them.
Yeah, go for it.
If that's cool.
Please sign up for the course.
Please this Sunday, he is doing a Zoom call, and he'll be meeting with students who sign
up.
The links will be in the course packets online and on the emails you get and stuff.
So I just thought about it, and then I was like, let me pull to the passage in Revelation
11 where it talks about the two witnesses.
We know this is a highly apocalyptic, eschatological book full of imagery, lots of violence, and
of course, the hope that God's angels and such comes and redeems and destroys the enemy
and brings the new Jerusalem, et cetera.
Well, in Revelation 11, it's two witnesses who get killed, their bodies are left, the
abyss is opened, they end up getting resurrected.
And I'm wondering, this is...
Or they're caught up to heaven.
They're caught up to heaven.
Okay, so this is what I wanted your thoughts about because there's this constant two messiah
that you've harped on, and I wonder if you personally interpret this Revelation 11 thing
through the lens of something on the two messiahs.
Is this John the Baptist and Jesus?
Is this Elijah and Elisha showing up on Mount Transfiguration?
What do you think is going on in Revelation 11?
Yeah, Revelation 11 owes a lot to the Dead Sea Scrolls and not just Revelation 11, but
lots of the language in Revelation.
And if you know Josephine Massenberg Ford, now deceased, I taught with her at Notre Dame.
You know, I started my career at the University of Notre Dame.
Josephine was a colleague, and she published the initial volume of the Book of Revelation
in the Anchor Bible series, and she was a specialist also in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
And even though that has now been superseded with another volume that is more generic
and useful, I still like Josephine's volume, and if you can get it, might be out of print.
I'm not sure.
It was the first version of the Anchor Bible Revelation because she gets all these parallels
with the Dead Sea Scrolls that you wouldn't believe, just the kind of language based upon the Hebrew
and the Greek and so forth and what sort of concepts are being carried.
And yes, the two Messiahs fits wonderfully, and it comes from Zechariah.
In Zechariah, you have my two anointed ones who stand before the Lord of the whole earth,
but the Lord of the whole earth is not Adonai, Jehovah or Yahweh.
It's Adon.
It's the idea of this pyramid.
There's the Lord of the whole earth, Adon.
That's Psalm 110, Psalm 2, remember?
Why does David call him Lord?
Sit at my right hand, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a stool for your feet.
So that's the Adon, but he has two Messiahs.
So however you put it together, and it might have changed in terms of history,
you know, was it John the Baptist, priestly Jesus, Davidic?
Or was it Jesus as the Adon, the Lord, and his two Messiahs?
Remember in Mark, again, Mark chapter 10, two of the disciples come up, James and John, and go,
Lord, Adon, you know, you're the Lord of the earth, you're the one God has chosen.
Could that be a Messiah who's anointed of the Spirit, Isaiah 61?
The Lord has anointed me.
So here you've got the Lord Yahweh anointing me, the Adon of the earth,
who then has two Messiahs, Zechariah chapter 3 and 4, and also in Zechariah 6.
So you get a priestly and a Davidic, but maybe even a third figure.
If you say the heavens and the earth will obey his Messiah, is that a king
ruling on the throne of David on earth, or is that this idea of somebody being exalted to the heavens?
I tend to think that the whole movement of early Christianity is moving towards,
movement is moving, there you go, is advancing or in the direction of, I'll use other words,
of this heavenly exaltation for everybody.
Right.
You who have followed me will sit on thrones judging the 12 tribes of Israel.
Okay, that could be on earth as it is in heaven, but then in the book of Revelation,
you ask about the book of Revelation, toward the end you have the new Jerusalem coming down
out of heaven onto the earth, and the gates are the names of the tribes and the 12 apostles.
Right.
And they're ruling on earth, but it's in some transformed, almost we would say,
eternal kind of new creation of earth.
Right, without a solution.
The generation is saturated with this stuff, and the gospel of Mark doesn't have all of that, of course.
But notice, those are anointed ones, and they die.
So we don't have to go hunting for dying Messiahs.
You've also got, in chapter 12 of Zachariah, a very interesting verse that's difficult to
translate, literally in Hebrew, it says, they will look to me, God speaking, to me, concerning the one,
or about the one that they pierced, and mourned for him, as one mourns for an only child.
And then it talks about the tribes of Levi, and the tribes of David, will both mourn.
Very messianic again.
Now, obviously, Christians picked up on that, remember?
Book of Revelation.
Every eye will see him, including those who pierced him.
They think, oh, that'll fulfill when Jesus comes.
Right.
Heads of heaven, and so forth.
So all these groups, think of these texts as kind of floating around.
They're kind of categories, and candidates, and possibilities.
And then different figures are trying to figure it all out.
They think it's like a messianic mosaic that's going to fit together.
And then click, look, all the pieces fit.
This is it.
The problem is, they're always missing pieces.
We thought we had the whole thing.
Each group thinks it has the whole thing.
And then what they must expect to happen doesn't happen.
That's not a cynical comment.
It's sort of a historical comment.
It's a realistic comment.
There's Jesus didn't return in the clouds of heaven, and so forth, as he said.
Now, all your preterists at that point, Dr. Tabor, how could you not?
No, how could you read it so literally like a human person?
Look at all the ways these things are applied symbolically.
Of course.
But look, as Paula Fredericksson said, I just quote her again.
Oh yeah, the archons are all defeated.
Death is no more.
There's no more disease.
There's no more suffering.
Every tear is wiped away.
You know, doesn't seem like it.
So I think if we read these things in the broader context,
the people who are hoping and dreaming of this transformation
are not talking about some symbolic internal thing
that might happen to the people that believe it.
They're talking about the world being transformed.
Paul says, don't even get married.
He says that don't even go into business.
Don't worry whether you're slave or free.
Don't do real life issues.
Right.
Don't go into these people.
This is economic social status, cultural status.
And he says, that's all passing away.
It's the form of this world, the schema it's called in Greek.
The schema is passing away.
So I believe that the Dead Sea Scroll group is also expecting that.
And there are lots of texts that we cover in the course
where they talk about what will happen when the sun's of light rule.
And they say, for example, that our days will be like the days of a tree
and we will live a thousand generations.
Well, a thousand generations is a poetic way of saying eternal life
because you live from one generation to the next to the next.
And a thousand means forever.
I just, I figured this is a perfect comment to kind of give my take on this
in terms of how I appreciate this conversation with you, Dr. Tabor.
Eximusic, you're always here in the chat.
Always, you know, in the comment section, I really appreciate you being here.
But like they said, this reminds me of Bible study days back
when I was a theist, kind of depressing.
Now, this is my little take here.
I just had to address this one before we get to super chats.
And that is, I remember watching this really, really fun Christine Hayes debate
with a Talmudic rabbi.
And the rabbi gets up and he says, you don't understand.
You don't get it.
You're wanting to ask the who, the what, the when, the where, the why, the how.
You're not pragmatically reading this literature to follow
and be an applicable person applying this to your life and living it.
This text is meant to be lived out, not to be who, what, when, where, why.
And she, I feel like just cut in and cut like a champ.
And she said, you get your religious experience, your experience in life
through this applicable thing.
And I'm not knocking it.
But what gets me curious,
what tickles me, she kind of emphasizes, is what was the rabbi doing in 654
saying this statement about this particular thing?
And how did that impact the community?
And where were they located in the world at the time?
And why was that's what gets me my experience?
So you put that comment up again reminds you of Bible study, kind of depressing.
What you have to do as a historian of religions, I think, as much as you can,
if I'm reading any texts, what if I'm reading the myth, Ross liturgy about ascending to heaven.
I'm not going to sit here and pretend I'm doing it.
But you want to read ancient texts with sympathetic participation,
at least in the thoughts and ideas, you see.
And yes, Bible study, people do that.
But the difference is you keep a distance in terms of that's not necessarily me,
I'm interested in the history of ideas.
In fact, I don't want it to be me because I don't want to impose my views on it.
So what I would always ask when Paul wrote first Corinthians seven
about marriage and going into business and being a slave or free or Jew or Greek,
all those things don't matter.
That's just not a text in Sunday school that I would now read today and think,
oh, I wonder what that means to me.
Probably doesn't mean anything to you.
I hate to say it.
We can always draw some principle from something.
But the world did not pass away.
And social economic differences continued throughout history and horrible suffering
and wars and death, and the world was not transformed.
And you know, the one text that's very clear,
nations did not beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks
and not learn war anymore.
And you know, you can allegorize that all you want,
but we live in a horrible world in terms of human behavior and we all know that.
And also a wonderful world in terms of the good things that are characteristic of human beings.
So it is kind of depressing.
I agree with your comment.
What was his name?
Exem music.
Yeah, right.
I remember always here.
They're always supportive.
Yeah, I love them.
It is depressing in that you might remember when you were trying to sort all that out
and almost make it apply.
Maybe that's what he means.
Maybe.
Yeah, maybe.
Yeah, it can also be liberating because we always, you know, Jonathan Smith always said,
you know, and he didn't originate this, but you want the familiar things to become strange
and the strange things to become familiar.
That was one of his sayings all the time.
So you read something really weird and strange and make it familiar.
You know, try to make it familiar.
And the things that are real familiar to you that you just take for granted like,
oh, they probably sat in church like we did and took the little crackers and the little bread.
And we're kind of doing what early Christians did.
No, you're not.
It's not even close.
Nick, the familiar things strange.
And that's some advice I always give my students to to see yourselves as others see you,
that wonderful poetic refrain, to try to back off and see things,
to understand what it is to be in somebody's moccasins or in their skin, so to speak.
That's what that's kind of what historians do.
We're not unaffected by these texts, believe me, but we don't like to hear people
kind of trotting over them as if they don't mean what they say.
Right.
And trying to harmonize them or make them all.
I mean, if Mark is reflecting anything about the historical Jesus in terms of this suffering
and so forth, I mean, the agony in the garden is hard to read, not because I'm a pious Christian
reading it, because I care about this good human being that was essentially defeated by evil forces.
They were greedy and rapacious and took him down.
And, you know, there you go.
It's one comment.
I got to say this.
Dennis McDonald, I talked to him earlier on the phone, and he 100% echoes what you're saying
about Jesus as the historical guy who's fighting for the poor, who's fighting for the downtrodden,
who's representing these people, and they killed him for calling out their hypocrisy
and their nonsense.
And he sees him as this kind of figure doing that.
Now, I know there's a million people with a million ideas about who Jesus was, but
this is an atheist scholar or a skeptic, theosceptic he likes to call himself, theosceptic,
however you want to pronounce it.
But he says, like, no, this guy was trying in his own context and his own worldview, trying
to make a better place to represent good in this context.
And that was really cool here, and him say that.
So it echoes theist, non-theist, or an agreement in terms of this is something that you might
want to, you know, do stand up for the weak, stand up for the poor.
In fact, my dad used to give me a Bible, a special forces Bible.
And when he would go down to South America, a lot of times they brought food to the poor.
And they also dealt with a lot of criminal regimes that would, you know, attack and try to
force labor, these people to run cocaine, do all these things.
And in the prayer, the whole prayer was like, help us to defend the weak and the helpless
and the things like that.
So it's kind of in that vein, but they had an apocalyptic slant in the New Testament.
So sorry, I had to take that.
That's right.
Well, it's the spirit of the Hebrew prophets, particularly, you know, think of Amos and Hosea
and Micah and those winging refrains that Jesus quotes.
One of my favorite verses in the Gospels is when Jesus says,
go learn what this means.
I desire mercy, not sacrifice.
Talking about the temple versus the heart.
And that's actually, people always ask, what's the secret in Mark?
What's the secret in Mark?
The secret in Mark is revealed in Mark, chapter 12, when Jesus tells a guy,
and I'm not going to reveal it.
I'm going to tell you where it is.
You can go find it.
Jesus tells a guy, you know what, you're not far from the kingdom of God.
And that's the only person commended for understanding in the entire book.
What an amazing presentation you have in Mark.
What about the apostles?
They didn't have a clue.
They wanted glory and power.
They wanted to sit on the right and left hand.
And that's the kind of message that you get in Mark.
So if I sound like a preacher, it's because I'm trying to enter into that world and that perspective.
And yeah, I could think about today, where are the places of oppression and injustice?
And as we often say, speaking truth to power, where people could literally crush you.
And Dr. Borum, I'm not.
I wanted your taxes to have you killed if you start speaking out too much about things
that are very powerfully controlled by economic and political forces.
And we all know that.
It's kind of frightening, right?
Doc brings up that Jesus had an ethic for eschaton, not here and now.
I think that is a misread.
And what I would say is, I don't think me nor James disagree, but it was the here and now for them
that I think is what leads him to that righteous inclination.
And he's reading passages in Isaiah, where the prophets are saying,
how dare you not take care of the widow and take the money from these people.
And you're abusing these people and stuff.
So I think.
So what is that saying?
He's saying it's a misread.
I think what I was suggesting, I may be reading into this, but.
Well, the thing is, Switzer called his ethics, interim ethics,
that would apply right as you're up against the end of the age.
But you couldn't run the world with these ethics.
But see, the world's passing.
That is, if you tell, who cares if you're a slave for the next 5,000, 10,000 years?
Let's just have a lot of slaves.
Rich, poor, no problem.
Who cares?
Let the rich get richer and the poor get poorer, you see.
But in the interim period, you're supposed to begin modeling the kingdom of God.
So what did people do?
They sold their land.
They gave up their houses.
This is in Mark.
And Peter says, I think it's Peter says, Lord, we've left everything.
We just picked up and sold things and we're putting all our funds into the work.
What are we going to have?
And he said, well, in this age, you're going to have and he starts naming all these things
collectively that they're going to have.
And in the age to come, eternal life, which Mark does believe in.
So yeah, I agree.
And I think we agree with Doc.
I think maybe I didn't emphasize the eschaton.
Now let's jump to supers, because we have 17 special.
We'll go through as quickly as possible.
Yeah, David Andrews.
Yay.
Thank you for becoming a member.
Jay C says, can you tell us anything about the iconography of the temple pillar
capitals around the Levant, specifically the representations of the Visica Pisces?
Can't.
I can't.
I just don't know about it.
I'd love to study it.
I do know that in the holy land, in the land of ancient Israel,
Judea, Samaria, and so forth, the pillars of synagogues are heart shape.
Now that's not the capitals necessarily.
But the capitals do seem to be a place where you would display various narratives of some type.
You know, it's the place to be highly symbolic.
But I just haven't delved into that architecture.
And it could be that JC has in those something.
JC, I have to admit, JC, you do have some interesting questions, which we'll get to.
You always have people that really dig into these things, Samarian and Babylonian stuff
and Egyptian stuff and Greco-Roman stuff.
And I'm just a kind of a poor textual guy, although I've tried to understand.
I think I'm more of a history of ideas guy, even though I spent 30 years also doing
archaeology on the ground, you know, material evidence.
But my approach is primarily to see how it might shed light on the textual evidence.
In fact, Derek, I'm doing a series now called Jesus Archaeology.
And I realize that's like a crazy title.
The idea would be I want to focus on the historical Jesus.
What do the texts tell us?
And what does the material evidence tell us?
And there I mean sites, artifacts, even landscape archaeology.
What's it like to walk from Jerusalem to Jericho, right?
So I open up Luke and Jesus tells a story about a man walked from Jerusalem to Jericho, right?
And what is he walking down or up?
Well, you've been on the bus.
You know, if you're going down, you're going to the lowest spot on earth.
If you're going up, that's just an illustration to help you understand the text.
But if you combine all of that material together,
I still finally come down to, I would say, I'm a history of ideas person.
I'm very interested in the history of ideas.
And that's why that shift that took place in the Hellenistic period interests me so much.
Because finally death becomes birth and birth becomes death.
Hmm.
As emphatically said, I wept.
I wept when I saw this dreadful place.
She's talking about his birth.
Why do babies cry when they're born?
Because they see the dark world in which they're delivered.
Right.
That's an interesting quote.
And then death is when you're going to go back home again.
If you're right.
One of the elect.
Well, and now we have in our own time, the post enlightenment world,
that's become more the scientific world of physics and chemistry and biology,
really running on its own, so to speak, and producing everything.
And so we have these periods and that that we call the secular perspective
that has taken over the Western world, at least.
Although there's still ways of having spiritual insights
within and accepting portions of that secular worldview.
Right.
So back to the time of the Dead Sea Scrolls in Jesus,
the ideas that are going around in the texts I use
are basically crazy ideas that never took place.
It's apocalyptic, messianic eschatology, and it all failed.
Should we run it again?
Call it.
Stop.
Stop scamming, man.
Thank you for the super chat.
Interconnectivity can be one day after Joseph Wilson's talk on Buddhist parallels,
and that was a live stream we did.
I found the book of Enoch says,
Noah arose and spoke at birth like Buddha.
Such speech was then said of Jesus in the Gospel of Thomas and the Quran.
Yeah, it's standard repertoire for divine men and or divine babies, I guess.
Yeah, absolutely.
Even the Dalai Lama, you know, the way they know the Dalai Lama.
Remember, is they put a child in front of all these things
and the child will know certain things that no one else could know
if it's really the one and that kind of thing.
By the way, stop scamming, man.
One of my favorite chat people comes to us all the time.
The Dead Sea Scrolls have a great text on the birth of Noah
that was also part of this thing called the Genesis Apocryphon.
And boy, you got to read that if you haven't looked it up,
because when Noah's born, you'd think the whole world is getting shaken.
It's just an amazing story.
You know, I mean, you read the Genesis like, and Noah was born.
But this is like, oh, no, if it's Noah, he's like the birth of the new world,
and it is to be glorious and amazing.
Did you know many, many of our Second Temple texts, including Philo and Josephus?
I wrote an article on this once.
They think that Moses ascended to heaven.
Yes.
Right. The Apotheosis of Moses is very important in many of our texts.
People don't realize that.
You read Deuteronomy, you think, okay, he went into this valley and he died,
and the Lord buried him.
What does that mean?
Well, that's his body.
It actually can come a model for understanding Jesus.
Everybody's worried about the body.
Where's the body?
Where's the body?
These people don't care about the body.
The body is the old clothing that you shuffle off.
The new clothing is the heavenly garment that you're going to wear,
you know, in the world to come as you sit at the right hand of God on your throne
next to Jesus Christ, if it's a Christian.
Right.
Thank you so much.
Great context.
JC, anything about the Visica Pisces of the Ops of David Josiahs
are the geese parallels of the cherubim or cherubs on Samaritan bowls?
Out of my range again.
Wow, JC.
Out of your range?
You should have room to talk about all this.
I know.
Email me.
Does the hand of God and the bait alpha mosaic offer saffron to Abraham?
Now, I know I know about this synagogue.
That's right.
You didn't go that.
We didn't go to that.
We went to several others that are similar.
And I'll be right back.
I'll get real quick.
I'm going to have you full screen.
Okay.
Can you answer that?
Or do you think can you spend a few minutes?
I would have.
I do know the notion of the hand of God appears in most of the synagogues
where you have the Akheda.
That's where Isaac is being offered.
And then God stops him.
And that's representing, of course, how God intervenes and stops.
But I don't recall something in the hand off hand in that one,
but I don't have it right before me now.
I'm going to do the next one.
But Daisy's got me three strikes when I'm out.
Uh-oh.
Here comes another one.
In the Dura Europos synagogue artwork,
Mordecai is depicted with the traditional iconography of saffron.
Do you have any idea why?
No, I don't, again.
But I have studied the Dura Ropa in the past in graduate school.
And Erwin Goodenough is the one to read on that.
I think it's multi-volume.
I have the cut down volume, the summary that Jacob Neusner did.
But that Jewish art and symbolism is very important.
And it's still turning up.
You know, Jody Magnus is uncovering or has uncovered this synagogue mosaic
that's from around 400 CE or AD.
It's got all of these motifs of various historical characters in the Bible
and even in some of the apocryphal things.
And the symbolism we're still trying to delve into.
I would say this, though, JC.
If you're working towards anything that would have to do with any kind of mystical ascent
or being an initiate into mysteries,
everyone who works on Dura Ropa stuff agrees that that's what it is.
It's not just decorative art.
It's what we call performative art.
And I think that's the case with the synagogue floors.
You go to the synagogue floors, you see these zodiacs.
You see all the symbols.
Did they just kind of walk on the floors and think,
oh, isn't that nice?
We have such a beautiful floor in this synagogue representing the cosmos.
Or they may be reenacting something.
The Morton Smiths of our world would say,
no, they're walking around in circles,
maybe stopping at this one or that one according to the seasons,
thinking that the vibrations of the universe are upon them at certain times of the year.
So all of that is there.
It's not just artwork, like decorative art.
And osheries are another question.
There's a lot of symbolism on osheries.
What we don't know there is how much of it did you get from the osheries shop?
You know, like you need an oshery and you go in and you see all the examples of the patterns,
like you're picking on a coffin.
And you go like, oh, I really like that one with the wheels and the two circles and the wings.
Or was it your expression of your faith as it became stylized?
But I'm glad to see that somebody's digging into that.
It's just something I haven't looked at in years.
Salama 510, thank you for the super chat and being a member.
When Jesus cleanses the temple, what would you say the driving motive is the driving motive?
A scene type motive?
Jewish nationalism?
Christians often think it's anti-Judaism,
but this seems to miss the diverse motives or groups.
It's certainly not anti-Judaism.
It's not even anti-temple.
It comes from Jeremiah chapter 6, and you need to go there first.
And that's the scripture that Jesus quotes, and Mark at least.
It is written, my house will be a house of prayer for all peoples.
But you have made it a layer.
I'm translating it like a wolves den of shredders.
In other words, a den of ferocious animals that rip apart animals and splash blood everywhere.
And that's also the Jeremiah passage.
He quotes it as well.
I mean, Jesus quotes Jeremiah.
Now, if God's house is to be a house of prayer for all people, and you've made it a den of these,
he's combining Isaiah 56 and Jeremiah 6.
And Jeremiah says, you shed innocent blood in this place.
And I actually think it's an Evianite perspective.
Not sure if the Dead Sea Scroll group totally shared it,
or if, remember, they're not necessarily monolithic because we do have the temple scroll.
But we do know there's a whole wing of the Jamesian
followers of Jesus, following the brother of Jesus.
And they absolutely are against animal sacrifices.
And in the Gospel of the Hebrews, Gospel of the Evianites, we did a show on this.
You have these amazing texts that if you do not stop sacrificing, this is Jesus.
The wrath of God will not depart from you and so forth.
And so I think it's very possible that the objection is to animal sacrifices,
especially the way they're being carried out, and not just the commerce in the temple.
You know, usually it's seen as the commerce.
Like they're just making money, ripping people off, which they're certainly doing.
But also the whole panoply of this bloodletting with these animals,
that that's really true religion, which the prophets rail against, of course.
I'll tell you something really interesting.
If you go to the Book of Kings, what you would think would be very, very,
you know, full of sacrifice and offerings at Solomon,
all these offerings he offers, what thousands of bulls and so forth.
But look at Solomon's prayer, just his prayer.
I think it's first Kings, maybe six or so early on.
His prayer, all it talks about is everyone will come here and turn towards God
and the stranger from afar will come and turn towards God.
And that's what Jeremiah is referring to, and that's what Isaiah 56 is referring to.
And I think that's what Jesus is referring to.
So it'd be this idea of Isaiah 11, I'll quote it for you.
In that day, they will neither hurt nor slaughter on all my holy mountain,
for the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea.
That's Isaiah 11.
You know what I just quoted?
That's what the Messiah is supposed to do.
No more slaughter in the holy mountain, right out of Isaiah 11.
So I think it's very clear that he's against the sacrifices.
Now people would say, yeah, he's not against them.
He just thinks they should be done differently.
Well, you know, I quoted Isaiah 11.
They will neither hurt nor destroy.
They'll hurt and destroy, but they'll do it in a really cool way.
I get it.
Okay, JC says.
He's next on the vegetarian.
So.
Right.
Thoughts on the apotheosis of Simacus from a temple of the Saffron Crocus?
He's got to come and talk about Saffron because I just haven't worked on it.
I just haven't worked on it.
But I'm glad he's getting these ideas out.
Yeah.
This would be enshrined in your superchats forever.
Right.
Festering boils.
Do you think the Dead Sea Scroll community helped initiate?
Let me just add to that though.
When people, you did mention apotheosis, which I know a little about.
When people do ascend, whenever they undergo mystical initiations,
there are things involved.
You don't just sit in your chair, sit on the floor in a lotus position,
and just think yourself into these states of ascent and of transcending the world.
That does develop in some cultures.
This stuff is magical.
You might have to have some crow feathers that you bring at the dead of midnight
and the blood of some animals splashed and certain kinds of other plants and so forth.
Maybe even taking some substances, believe it or not.
A sleep deprivation and other kinds of things.
So my book, Paul's Ascent to Paradise, surveys most of the major texts.
It's very clear that ascent to paradise, which Paul talks about,
was an initiatory process that you have to be learned into.
Even if it involves chanting and certain kinds of prayers,
you got to get the words right.
It could be very, very dangerous because you've got to call the names of all the gods
and you've got to defeat them with the power of your knowledge and so forth.
Sounds like someone's tripping on something there.
Festering boils.
Do you think the Dead Sea Scroll community helped initiate the burning of the temple
since they thought it had to be destroyed at that time
and since they had ties to Zaduk priests within the temple?
As I recall, we need to get Steve Mason to tell us or just read it in Josephus.
I think the fire started accidentally
and the Romans would have never wanted to destroy it.
So I can't remember now.
Doesn't Josephus blame it on the Romans and certain kinds of wind gusts and so forth?
There's no real reason to destroy that temple.
What you want to do is save the temple.
It's absolutely gorgeous.
It's worth the equivalent of billions and billions of dollars today.
Some say one of the most beautiful buildings in the world
and then turn it into a temple of Zeus.
That's what you want to do or Jupiter in this case.
So that's certainly what a Roman general would do, not to destroy it.
Herod's palace was destroyed also
but towers were left and that had to do with the walls because it's right on the walls.
Whether anybody wanted to really burn it down,
I think they were more interested in reforming it.
Although Herod, I don't know, these guys might have preferred
a simple tent in the desert than a temple made with hens.
This temple made with hens thing in Isaiah is nothing.
What is the temple you will build to me?
And you get the idea that the temple is the people, even in Isaiah.
And you also find that in the Dead Sea Scrolls and in the New Testament writings.
The prayers of the people are the temple.
Thank you.
Jaycee says, what's a crocky poem got to do with it?
No idea.
Jaycee killing me.
Killing me today Jaycee.
You and my ignorance in a lot of areas, which would be easy to do.
Yeah, I mean we have specialties and also,
but email me anything that we don't cover and give me some tips and pointers
on where you might find scholars that help with this.
Thank you so much for all the help though.
Victor Engelman.
Jesus Syrac is dated 2nd century BCE, like the foundation of Qumran.
A copy of the book was found there and histology reminds of the New Testament.
Could Syrac be the founder and other Jesus?
Paul warns of?
Mm-hmm.
Syrac to me, I don't know, I guess I have to read it again.
It sounds more sad you see into me, so it depends on what you mean theology.
The wisdom of Solomon has a kind of an afterlife and immortal soul and all of that stuff.
But as I recall Ben Syrac is more of a reductionistic view of this mystical magical world,
more like the Hebrew Bible itself, that you don't have as much of that going on.
So it could be, but if that's correct, I don't find in Syrac an expanded,
vastly populated in terms of all these spiritual entities.
But maybe I need to read it again, maybe I forgot.
He said he followed up, for example, he forbids swearing, talks about hell and how to become
a son of God.
He also says wisdom, logos, was created before the earth and that's in first person.
See again, I thought that was wisdom of Solomon, but I need to look again.
Interesting.
Yeah, the forbidding swearing would be very clear.
Victor, thank you.
These are interesting questions.
Dr. Pluromonot again, thank you so much.
Could the Yahad be a splinter group of the Sadducees that left due to the
to stances on free will, the afterlife?
They both were ultra focused on the temple and shared lower to upper vessel,
liquid impurity, cooties for QMNT.
They did indeed.
Yeah, they're halakic interpretations of the law.
He's talking about if you pour liquids, if you've got a liquid here that's clean
and a cup that's clean and this is the filed and I pour the liquid,
does it a five month go up into the cup that would be okay?
Now, the vessel is bad and the cup is bad.
So I've ruined everything.
So you got to really be careful when you're pouring wine or anything like that at the table.
They're interested in that kind of thing for sure.
And we know that from MMT as he mentions here.
MMT is a document that's very important where they give some observations of the Torah.
They do seem to be Sadduceean in certain ways,
but I don't know that it's a monolithic whole.
And remember, we have stages of a library here.
So you've got the temple scroll that seems to be very interested in rebuilding the temple and
doing the sacrifices.
And then we've got the community rule and maybe it's just temporary.
It talks about our prayers and good deeds will be our sacrifices.
And then we got little jugs of bones buried all over Qumran
that seem to have been some kind of a ritual meal, but they saved the bones
almost like these are sacred meals.
So we don't want to just throw them out in the dump like we would normal eating of meat.
I don't know that they're vegetarian.
I think it's difficult to sort out, but
there are quite a few books that have been written on different ways of taking the scroll group.
And I think probably it depends on how you're defining Sadducees.
Remember, it's real hard to define Sadducees.
I was thinking of Ben Sirac as being pretty Sadduceean,
but I don't remember it talking about hell in the sense of an ever-burning fire or anything like that.
If you're talking about hell like the grave, yes, absolutely.
I was thinking about this as I was reading Boca Chini the other day.
He emphasizes how there is a serious divide in the thinking in the,
I don't think it was the temple scroll.
I think it was, I can't remember which one, but it's like you can tell they're super free will.
It's like Calvinism and Arminianism all over again before Jesus, literally among Jews.
It was so shocking to hear how deterministic and the days are numbered and the exact count
and the exact person.
And then another one, it explains why the angels fell in this kind of Enochian as we've called it Judaism,
where like the angels had this free will.
You know, we always think of angels in Christianity.
I've been taught they didn't have free will.
You know, the angels are, they were like predetermined to fall and all this,
but like no, no, no, they freely chose and wandered after these women.
And then a lot of us are looking at the scrolls as a library of materials.
Some even wonder whether the community produced them all.
I would certainly wonder that.
But a Jewish group would have copies of various things.
You have copies behind your head of books that you don't agree with.
So if we uncovered your library someday, we go, Derek, look, he's such a
devout this or undevout that, because you're reading everything.
I know it's not that diverse because, you know, we have printed books by the thousands
and all of us have a great diversity in our libraries, but there is something going there.
And there have been lots of articles over the last 10 or 20 years talking about,
what is the Qumran library?
What is it?
Some think it could even have come from Jerusalem.
And remember the stretch of time.
This is what we know least about.
It could be called the dark ages of the community.
They first arise and they get founded and we got the community rule and we got the
Damascus document and they have a teacher and they follow him.
And then he dies and they expect the end to come within 40 years and it doesn't.
Okay, if you go with why is this dating?
That's only getting us down to the last quarter or so of the first century BC.
Now we've got to go for the rest of that century all the way up to probably
70 at least when the Romans come down and destroy Jericho and Qumran and Masada.
That's a long period of time.
That's another 100 years right there to develop, to be disappointed, to believe things,
to not believe things, gather more materials, have new recruits, a new generation could arise,
and by the third and fourth generation you'd have people that wouldn't even know the teacher,
but they might be remembering Jesus of Nazareth and John the baptizer
as more their teachers and leaders who picked up the baton you might say of the movement.
So it depends.
I always tried to describe it with those generic terms you've heard me use 100 times.
You know, preparing the way in the wilderness, apocalyptic, messianic, eschatological, the end
is near, the final days of wrath, we're in the end times, we're right on the cusp of
the changing of the world, the quinoa got arriving and so forth, but as you push that down the pike
it's going to cause all kinds of recalculations.
So we get their library as it was maybe hidden in caves before the Romans got down there around
the year 70 after destroying Jerusalem. Well, how could I possibly imagine what it was like
in 50 BCE, you know, the library, the books, even the Selma, daily life and so forth. We just don't
know. There's so many possibilities. Thank you. JC, does the zodiacal imagery emerging from the
rear of the Crocus temple on the Simacus piece suggest that Crocus was associated with a celestial
sign? You got to get a guest on that deal. I think all of these, by the way, were super chatted
well before we even finished. So there's no no zodiacs in cosmic things.
Absolutely come up in the Dead Sea Scrolls. Their calendar, their idea of the zodiac, their idea
of the signs of the heaven, that's that's all part of their faith. And they do want to be lined up
with the right calendar in order for the presence of God to work, you might say, or to be operative
in their own midst. And they believe that angels are walking amidst them in their assemblies and so
forth. But to answer specifically this particular temple, I'm not I'm not I'm not knowledgeable
of that. Yes, sir. Dope lunchbox. Yo, I'm a big fan of both of you. The Jesus dynasty is fantastic.
Thanks for making me feel smarter. Tabor's voice is like butter on pancakes. Well, at least he
used a vegetarian image. She's on Swiss. I was going to say, does Lori feel like your voice is
butter on pancakes? I don't know. Right. I talked too slow. So I said, well, you should play it on
a bigger speed. You know, all you got to hit is one button on YouTube and I can. Exactly.
Thank you, dope. Appreciate that. Derek Cruz says fascinating show today. Thank you. Thank you.
Great. Thanks. Salama 510. I think John Dominic Crossen and I'm interpreting those
initials because those are sacred. I love the code JDC. JDC said an apocalyptic preacher talking
about 2000 years later would be ignored quickly. Crowds would not be interested and no followers.
Huh. I haven't heard him say that, but I would think the various people that Josephus mentions,
they do get followers that number in the thousands. They're usually militant and want to overthrow
Rome and they always get defeated pretty handily. But when Judas son of Hezekaius rose up,
Roman sent down three legions. And this, this comment seems to picture it almost like a guy in
Times Square carrying some sign. The end is near. The end is near. And then people are walking by
busy with their coffee and their newspapers at lunch and not even like that crazy. Oh,
he's always here. Don't worry. That is not the idea I get. The thing is,
the time is right according to the book of Daniel. And you can't underestimate that. Here's what
Josephus says in book six of the Jewish war. What most of all led my people to revolt was an
oracle in our sacred books that about this time, God would send the Messiah, the world redeemer,
the Savior, calculating the 70 weeks prophecy. We know this group is into that.
So I'm not, I would want to hear the context because Crossan and I agree and disagree on some
things, but I'm a great admirer of his. And I think it was an apocalyptic heyday
day from the Maccabees up through bar cookbook. And then it did kind of die out because it's all
failed. And just the temple, there's hardly even a Jerusalem. And once Hadrian rebuilds Jerusalem
as Alia Kaptalina to Jupiter, and it's basically a pagan city until after the time of Constantine,
you know, who's apocalyptic anymore? You know, what are you going to do? That is when you get
your guy walking down the street, not being listened to by anybody.
Well, the way I was reading this and he's saying later than I'm the way I read this was like,
he's saying like, if a preacher came and said, ladies and gentlemen, in 2000 years from now,
the end is coming. Come follow my message and, and, and join my movement because in thousands of
years from now, that's how I'm reading it differently. Sorry. Okay. No, you're fine.
What I said is also true. Okay. An apocalyptic teacher talking about 2000 years later would be
ignored. Okay, I got it. Now I got it. Sorry about that. Absolutely true. The idea that we're going
to save the prophecies. And then I let everybody know, I get them all excited. That's what he's
saying. And I go, I need to tell you something about the timing though. You know, your children
aren't your grandchildren, your great-grandchildren. In fact, it's not going to come for thousands
of years, but I think you should believe it and really get engaged in what we're doing here because
the end is quote near. Sorry, I misinterpreted that, but I gave another alternative that I assume
Crossen would agree with me on. There was an apocalyptic heyday. Now where Crossen shines,
see what he's trying to say. And it's like I agree with him and I agree with Paula Friedrichsson
and Bart Ehrman and Dale Allison kind of at the same time, not on the same issue. Right. But I think
Jesus was an apocalyptic preacher of the imminent arrival of the new age. Right. But I do think
there was a difference that Crossen centers on that his message had the seeds of dismantling the
powers. Okay. And the reason is it could cut against the cultural, social, political powers
of the time, you see, whether it's rich or poor, whether it's ethnic and cultural and racial,
you know, Jew, Gentile, different religions. And he therefore sees it as this enduring message
that at its core does not need to just be discarded just because the apocalyptic predictions
didn't come true. I'm pretty sure Dom would say Jesus and all his followers thought the end of
the age was near. Doesn't he say that, Derek? I think so. I think he does. And that's probably
the point he was making in that question. But he thinks there if I took the message of say Judas
the Galilean, or even Judas son of Hezekiahs, either one of them. Actually, I think I miss
but Judas the Galilean is when Varus sends down three legions to stop him. So it was somewhat
powerful. Judas Hezekiahs is earlier. He's in the, I think he would be, now I'm getting mixed up again.
Judas the Galilean is, you got to get your Judas. Judas Galilean is six E. That's the
reign of Archelaus. Okay. Hezekiahs, I was right. Judas son of Hezekiahs or Ezekias, he's called.
He raises troops and tries to overthrow Rome and then they come down and kill him and crucify
2,000 people. So the revolt is put down. Now, nobody came around and said, yeah, but he also
taught this cool stuff about women could sit at the feet of the rabbi and should also be learning
like Jesus and Luke with Mary and Martha or some of these other things, you know, like, oh,
the poor widow, she gave more than everybody else. He taught that too. So Dom is picking up on those
transforming stories of Jesus that would endure past apocalyptic disappointment and therefore he
would, when he says he's a Christian, you know, as you know, he's not talking about any of the
miraculous things that people believe about resurrection, divinity, virgin birth, anything
like that. He's saying he believes that this man, Jesus of Nazareth, put forth a message
that is transforming the world and can transform the world even down into our own time.
And I think he would say, and it's actually the only message that can transform the world.
Yeah, he says stuff like that because essentially all the other messages are just grab, greed, power,
glory, who's on top, right? Until we could build a society that would in some ways echo what Jesus
tried to create. We had rich setting next to poor, this ethnic group next to the other ethnic group
and a kind of an egalitarian understanding, even of men and women. That was pretty advanced and you
would have to go to some of the Greek philosophers to find, you know, that kind of utopian view of the
culture and a cynic stoic preacher in that sense. Thank you. JC is a griffin, a cherub.
What chalice do they flank? Don't know. The caribs at some point undergo all kinds of development,
but you know, for example, I wish we could see the ones that were on the temple curtain
of Herod the Great's temple because there were these caribs on the curtain embroidered.
Boy, wouldn't you give anything to know what those look like? Because were they just echoing
some typical Hellenistic motifs? Or were they, you know, what we think of when you see these things
of the Ark, you know, these wing kind of beings or what were they really? Right. Thank you.
Mr. Monster, been around for 20 months as a member on MythVision. Thank you so much.
Asks, when did Greece drop Zeus and go all in for Yahweh? And of course, they superchatted
it as well. Same question. When did Greece drop Zeus and go all in on Yahweh? I guess in general,
if you're talking about Yahweh, I mean the biblical God, it would be coming with post-Constantine,
but it takes a long time for Rome to get, quote, Christianized. So not until what we begin to call
the late Byzantine period where it becomes the establishment. I'm going to have to close in a
minute because I have an event tonight to get ready. We have one left. Okay. That is Dr. Pluromina
Hegesipus. Hegesipus's addresses James and Oblius or Bulwark. Could this Greek transliteration into
Protector more relate to the Aramaic Abal or Mourner for Zion corresponding to Nazarite
vow requirements? That's a nickname. I'm going to have to think about that. I don't know.
Hegesipus's account is very difficult to interpret. We get it through Eusebius,
first of all, so it's second hand. And he also talks about what is the gate of Jesus,
the gate of Jesus. And do you believe in the gate of Jesus or something like that?
Right. But I'll take a look at that and see. I tend to think it's something about
a towering figure, the Just One. And it comes from this idea in the book of James, even,
and in the scrolls that they've killed the Just One, which goes back to prophecies in the Hebrew
Bible, that the wicked pursue the Just One and then you capitalize it and make it sort of the
ultimate one. Right. Thank you so much. I hope everybody signs up and we'll see you this Sunday.
I see a bunch of you Sunday and we record those programs. So whether you can make it Sunday for
church time at noon Eastern or not, you can still listen to it, watch it, rather, if you
sign up for one of the courses. So take care, everybody. Good to talk to you.
Absolutely. Dr. Kbert, thank you so much. Y'all have a wonderful one.
