All right, we are live, MythVision podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
It's been a minute since I've done a live stream
and why not come out kicking this new live stream out
post-New Year's with a bang?
And I mean a big bang.
What if Marcian, what if the guy we call Marcian,
that heretic, right?
What if he was first?
What if this guy's gospel was earlier
than some of the gospels we see in the New Testament
or maybe even all of them?
I don't know, let's dig into the weeds
because I have always been curious to know more
about Marcian and our guests, plural today,
all have something to contribute in that conversation.
Today on my left is Mark, or on my right,
if you're watching the screen, is Dr. Marcus Vincent.
I have, is it your PhD now, right Jack?
Yes, indeed.
Dr. Jack Bull and then Dr. Mark G. Billby.
They're all three extremely passionate about Marcian
and we're gonna find out why today.
So please, if you will, give us a little bit
of your background gentlemen and let's dive into Marcian.
Yeah, thanks so much Derek for inviting us
to the session here.
And I have to say, I have more in common with you
than you probably would have thought
because I grew up without Marcian and any link to him.
When I was studying philosophy, theology, history,
even archeology, I never came across him.
When right after 30 years of my life,
I've never heard of him, let alone read his stuff.
I was, well, I was asked to write a book
about Christ's resurrection.
And I thought this is an easy task for somebody
who knows the beginnings of early Christianity,
at least the first four or five centuries.
And by starting to write this book on the training I had,
it became more and more unclear to me
why Paul's writings, his letters, yeah,
were received by Christians in the literature
that we read in first, second centuries.
But that the gospel literature at the same time,
which people claim, and I have to say,
all my friends sitting here with me,
they still claim that these earlier gospels
have been written somehow,
at least pre versions of this gospel
have been written in the first century.
So that's what I believe too.
And by writing this book on Christ's resurrection,
I couldn't explain, and I was not the only one
when I was doing my research, even big, big names
like Kurt Arland, this is the famous New Testament scholar
who put together the Greek New Testament
that we all use around the globe as scholars.
Kurt Arland wrote an article and asked the question,
how is it possible that in our early Christian literature
of the first two centuries, at least first
in the half centuries, we have the letters of Paul
being quoted, being disputed and discussed,
but none of those gospels?
So the question for me was, how is it possible
to write a book about Christ's resurrection,
which is so fundamental to our New Testament gospels?
At least, I would say, for the versions that we have,
how is it possible that people don't talk about
these gospels, let alone about Christ's resurrection
as portrayed in these gospels,
with the resurrection appearances and all of that?
And I had submitted, I mean, I have written this story
about Christ's resurrection, about any writing
which we have from the first two centuries,
I sifted through, the book was ready,
and I had send it off already to the publisher
when I discovered it doesn't sound right still.
And by picking again into the material,
it appeared to me that we have to change the order
of what I was told, which means Marcian was always known,
I mean, for centuries, he was always known as somebody
who was making use of the gospel of Luke,
that he copied it, almost verbatim.
And that doesn't make sense to me any longer.
Why?
Because Marcian is the same person who put together
at least from what we know from the sources,
put together the first collection of Paul's letters.
And only since we have Marcian putting together
this collection, which we know is the earliest version
of the New Testament, around the mid of the second century,
only since he had published his text,
people started discussing the material,
which we know as the gospel material and not before.
Anything before this time that they discuss
are a few sayings of the Lord,
as we have them, for example, in some of Paul's letters.
A few sayings which we have in other texts
like First Clement, but nobody talked
about those gospel narratives that we know of.
No miracle, no wonder working, nothing,
no appearance after Easter.
And so the only result that I could imagine,
and I thought I would test it, was to reverse the order.
And as some had claimed before in the 19th century already,
that Marcian might be the earlier gospel,
just as he was presumably the first to put together
a New Testament collection, or by his collection was small.
I mean, it was just one gospel,
and it was just 10 letters of Paul and not 14
as we have them.
And I sent another draft to the publisher and said,
I have to add to the book, a subtitle.
Instead of saying it is about Christ's resurrection,
I mentioned that we should have the book
as Christ's resurrection and the making
of the New Testament, which was a bold statement, of course.
The publisher at the time, Ashgate, now Routledge,
bought into it, and the book was published as it is,
just 250 pages.
But it was a bang, it was a bang in so far
as I received reviews, scholarly reviews from colleagues
that were 27, almost 30 pages long.
I mean, more than 10% of what the book's length is.
And I thought, again, something is wrong.
I mean, if I think the book is crap,
I say it in two sentences, or probably in,
if I'm nice and charming, because we are colleagues,
I might do it in half a page.
Yeah.
But if I have to spend three, four, five days
to grapple with a bloody small book
in order to defeat the argument,
something is extremely wrong.
And by looking through the arguments of all the reviewers,
and I've got an enormous list of reviewers,
it boils down to two responses.
A, I was told my calculation at the datings
of what I suggested, namely that all these gospels,
which we have, are post-140, so mid-2nd century literature.
And the reason for dating these texts earlier
all boil down to two other texts
which were supposed to make references
to the gospels as we have them.
One is the so-called Diderkei,
and the other one are the letters of Ignatius.
Now, the Diderkei is our earliest catechism,
and indeed quotes Matthew more sayings than anything else.
And the second are the letters of Ignatius,
on which Jack knows much more than I do,
and he will talk about it a bit later,
because he did his PhD with me on the Ignatian letters.
But what I discovered, and just to start Jack later off,
I looked into the Ignatian letters
and discovered that the earlier version,
which is attested in manuscripts,
were only three letters of Ignatius.
And here, those so-called quotations
of those gospels are missing.
And the version,
Oh, crap.
Well, the version, it gets better, I tell you.
The version of the Ignatian letters
that have gospel quotations, I mean, numerous ones,
even Old Testament quotations,
are preserved in the oldest manuscript that we have,
which is called the manuscript,
Herosolumitanus from the 11th century.
Now, this manuscript offers us the Ignatian letters
in a widely expanded version.
It's not the three letters, it's a seven letters collection,
and adjacent with it, a 14 letter collection.
And the 14 letter collection became the standard collection,
which was known throughout the medieval period
until more recent times.
And this is, and these are the letters,
which are full of gospel quotations.
Now, the didache, the oldest Greek manuscript that we have,
is the same manuscript.
So when we know that the Ignatian letters
that are being preserved are held in a manuscript,
which has blown up these Ignatian letters
into a full-sized quotation letters of the gospels,
how can we be sure that the didache,
which derives from the same manuscript,
has not undergone the same blow-up
and a gospelizing of this didache?
It all points down to one thing,
the so-called two sources that were advanced
against the redating of these gospels,
from an early dating to a mid-second century dating,
just fell apart like a carthouse.
It's a medieval view how these texts were dated.
So that's just my intro.
That started me off.
And since then, this was about 2010,
I've spent a good deal of my life in digging deeper,
exploring actually what I didn't know
and what I wasn't told when I studied,
just like you, Derek, you weren't told.
And I guess, Jack and Mark,
when I were told things like that in their school time.
So I had to do it myself.
But that was the passion,
which allowed me to go deeper
and to see what we can find.
Before we move to Mark and then we'll get to Jack,
I guess we're going in this order.
I just have one question,
and this is for the viewer more than anything,
is that you're not alone in these observations overall.
I'm sure you have your particulars
that you might hold to that others don't hold to,
but the idea that Marcian is early
and that there is something going on,
almost like a conspiracy,
though it's not that kind of conspiracy,
it's almost like a cover-up or something
that has somehow politically and for power reasons maybe,
have been pushed in a certain direction against Marcian.
You're not alone in this idea
that Marcian is actually early, correct?
No, you're not correct.
I'm still alone.
Alone in one point.
Despite all my friends who are sitting with me tonight,
and despite all other friends and colleagues
with whom I'm exploring this material,
I'm alone in the sense that I still believe
that Marcian is not just a collector,
he's not just a reviser,
he's not just somebody who has built a text
almost by doing nothing to a text or to text that he found.
I mean, even my great colleagues who I revere and admire,
right, are still holding that the basic format of this text,
be it the gospel speed, the temple,
and that is our texts which have been absorbed by Marcian
more or less and without doing much to these texts.
If I'm misinterpreting you, Mark, or Jack, please correct me.
But even people who are not sitting with us tonight,
Matthias Klinghardt, Judith Liu, and many, many others,
they all agree in the meantime
that the texts Marcian's gospel and Paul's letters
are earlier, earlier than what we have as canonical texts,
but they still believe that Marcian has little
or pretty much nothing to do with these texts,
except that his name got attached to these texts
because people ridiculed Marcian
for having used these texts as the New Testament.
So I'm sure I'm still alone,
and it doesn't make me uncomfortable being alone.
So another way to simply say what you said
is that most, even the ones who agree with you Marcian's early
is that Marcian inherited literature that is prior
that he didn't tinker with, change, most likely,
or if he did it, it's very minor ways.
It's not significant.
You think a significant change happened?
Do you think he inherited it,
or do you think he may have ex nihilo created
much of what you see?
First of all, you hit the nail on the hat.
I mean, I think it is the question,
what is the contribution Marcian did?
And the second question is, what did he inherit?
Or was it just fiction,
which would quite nicely fit the myth vision?
But I have to disappoint those myth visioners, right,
who believe that it's all fiction.
Right.
I think he's a good writer.
That's not me, by the way, but go ahead.
I think he's a good writer, but he's not a Shakespeare.
But even Shakespeare had some material
on which he built his stories and drawings.
Now, the question is, if he is a bit less than Shakespeare,
so he has more material on which he latches
and which he makes use of,
what is the nature of this material?
And here, I think, I have to admit tonight,
we are pretty innocent right now,
and we are still exploring these earlier layers
before what has been received.
I am a firm thinker who bases things,
or tries on these to base things, not on hypothesis,
but on data and facts.
And that's how we got together.
But then we will explore tonight,
and probably in the next weeks,
that even our attempts not to build our stories
on hypotheses, on ideas, but on data is a tricky one,
because none of us works without prejudices,
none of us without agendas.
And we've just had an exchange today,
Mark and me and Jack,
where we are still exploring where are our agendas sitting,
where are our prejudices sitting,
and is what we provide data or is it hypothesis?
And I sent an email to Mark today by saying,
if we start to say that data are based on hypothesis,
I'm out, because I think scholarship
is not about hypothesis,
it's about dismantling judgments and hypotheses,
and going back to data.
And that's why we got to know each other,
because I know Mark is working with data,
Jack is working with data, I'm working with data,
but it is a tricky thing.
As we know from the American elections,
all people claim the data are clear,
and only my data are right.
Everybody's right with their data, yeah.
Yeah, okay, so let's get to Mark here.
Mark, welcome to MythVision, my friend.
Again, you've made an appearance in a previous interview
I did once with our good friend, Jacob Berman.
And you're bringing something unique and different,
please lay that out for us.
Sure, yeah.
Well, I've been aware of Marcus's work for a while,
and Matias Klinghart's work for a while, Joseph Tyson,
and Jason Badoon's work.
So there are several scholars working on Marcian,
what I saw was that there's a lot of subjectivity
or idiosyncrasy in the approaches
to especially Marcian's gospel.
And so if we were going to try to take a data-driven approach
to investigating these early years
and the formation of this early literature in Christianity,
we need to just normalize the data.
And I think this is where the prejudices come in,
from very early on,
Irenaeus gives us a narrative
by which we reconstruct and understand all of this stuff.
So we call these books Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
Why do we do that?
But it's not,
because it's in the original books themselves quite likely.
It's because that's what Irenaeus told us
we were supposed to call these books, right?
And we were supposed to understand them as harmonious
and as early in first century.
So there's a whole narrative there.
I think I've been, by the way,
occasionally to emphasize
because this is gonna be, ladies and gentlemen,
warning up front, weeds.
Okay, when I say weeds, this goes deep.
So you have to put your coffee in your hand or your tea,
whatever you prefer, and get ready for the ride.
So Dr. Bilby, just to emphasize, when you said Irenaeus,
we learned from Marcus and Jack and you,
all three kind of emphasize,
we only have in that earlier three letters.
We don't have all seven.
So is this in his three that he names the gospel authors?
Oh, Irenaeus, okay, so there's Ignatius.
Or did I say Ignatius?
Yeah, there's Ignatius with the three letters,
seven letters, 14 letters.
And then there's Irenaeus who wrote around 180.
He was a bishop in Southern France, basically.
Forgive me, I missed.
That's okay.
So yeah, Irenaeus is the reason we have the idea
of the four gospel canon,
at least he's the earliest person to give us that notion.
And he gives us the narrative that comes to dominate.
I don't think it was necessarily dominating in every circle
for the first several hundred years
in which there was something like Christianity
or Jesus followers.
Marcianism was probably a pretty significant movement.
Manichaeanism was a very significant movement
in various parts.
Some of it depended on where you lived in the empire.
If you're living in Syria,
if you're living in ancient Persia,
you would have encountered forms of Christianity
that did not look like what was happening in Rome.
Irenaeus' model, you would have been encountering
one gospel, not four gospels,
because they're all combined into one.
So there's diversity and you can see that
with manuscripts and all this sort of stuff.
Anyway, when it came to Marcian's texts
and how we reconstruct them,
what I saw is that there was just massive disagreement.
You could have people like Harnak and Roth
who reconstructed Marcian's gospel, for instance,
and they came up with about 4,000 words of content.
Matthias Klinghart comes up,
when he does the same thing,
he comes up with 13,000 words of content.
So there's just an enormous, enormous disparity.
Andrean Nicolodi in Italy did one as well.
He's more like 11,500 words,
but we didn't even have our bearings really
before I did these data sets.
I was the first person to publish data sets
of the Marcianite texts
so that we could actually get a handle on what the data is
and that we could start to do things like
correcting for bias, detecting bias, right?
And evaluating common trends.
Speaking of, I'll bring this up real quick.
We have a member on our team
who's actually a legitimate hard scientist,
applied mathematician, statistician,
he's a grad student at Columbia, his name's Calance Lotharpe
and he's absolutely brilliant.
So he probably hears me bragging on him,
but he's put together,
I think this is the first time
this has ever happened in gospel studies
and you can correct me if I'm wrong,
but we just started up a Kaggle
or Kaggle data science competition.
So if I can share my screen just real quick.
Absolutely.
And just while you're doing that,
ladies and gentlemen, if you like what you're hearing,
you could support the guest
by going and checking out some of the books
Marcus Vinson has written.
There's also PayPal, things are Patreon,
sorry, you can go support these guys.
So if you wanna see more Marcian stuff,
back the Marcian scholarship
and that's the best way to keep this stuff growing.
So for our data science and coding geeks out there,
we now have a competition where you can use data science
to try to reconstruct a plausible version
of Marcian's gospel.
And basically it takes all the past reconstructions
and then it uses the most recent one,
which was by Jason Badoon in Greek
and Jason and I collaborated on that.
So the idea is kind of a scientific experiment
using all the past reconstructions from about 200 years.
Can you take that data
and somehow do pattern extrapolation from it
and then end up with something that's close to Badoons?
And part of the reason behind the experimental design
is the idea that Badoons probably
in a reasonable kind of middle ground.
If we have 4,000 on one end and 13,000 on the other end,
probably neither one of those guys is right,
but probably the truth is somewhere in the middle.
So Badoon is the most middle,
he's the most via media or kind of moderate approach,
you might say, not kind of going,
I call him the Goldilocks of Marcian scholars, right?
He's not too high, he's not too cold,
he doesn't go too far, he's not too minimalistic.
So kind of gives us a middle ground among reconstructions.
So the idea again is pattern extrapolation.
So those of you who are interested in data science,
please join us, but it just went live like two hours ago
and Lance will be the one hosting it.
Again, he's a grad student in statistics at Columbia.
So he's a brilliant coder, a brilliant mathematician
and he can bring scientific rigor
and really a hard science methods to this.
Is this one of the links that's in the description
you sent me or?
It's not, but I'm happy to provide it.
I can put it in the chat for you
and then if you wanna send it out to, yeah.
Even in the, let's see, I have access I think to the,
there we go.
I can put it in the comments right now for everybody.
Yeah, I just put it in the chat.
There you go.
All right, it's there, I'll add it to the description
so that it's there for anybody who wants,
I'll add it under your section, Mark,
just so they know where it is.
Yeah.
The Kaggle, got it.
All right, I just added it.
And yeah, okay.
Since we're on my computer,
I might as well just show some of the other things
that I've been doing and working on.
So one is to just compile all the evidence.
I think that's an important thing that we've been doing
but not in a rigorous way.
And so I've been working with Marcus
on his version of the Apostolos,
giving suggestions, helping with evidence,
gathering and so on.
And then I've helped Badoon to turn his Apostolos version
of Martian scriptures into Greek for the first time.
So I've completed that and a critical apparatus.
So I'm kind of playing research assistant
to both of these senior scholars.
And I have my own research that I'm working on as well.
But one of the things I wanna do is
popularize research on Martian
because if it is important,
then it needs to be looked at by a lot more people
than just 15 scholars around the planet.
It's getting more and more popular
as scholars look more seriously at it.
But one of the things I wanted to...
Sorry, Mark, we might just need to explain to the audience
what the Apostolos is.
Sure, yeah.
So Martian has two texts,
the Evangelion and the Apostolos,
and then a preface to that collection
that went by the name Antithesis.
So it was basically something like an introduction
to what might be considered our first New Testament canon,
simply a gospel and then 10 letters
of attributed to the Apostle Paul.
So it's a much smaller New Testament canon,
maybe about a third of the size
of what our New Testament canon is today or even less.
But again, because scholars,
scholars have been studying this stuff for 200 years,
but because there's been a lot of prejudice
against Martian and his scriptures as irrelevant
or late second century or botched versions of Luke
or there were letters of Paul or what have you,
we're trying to kind of turn the tide
and make it more about, well, let's just look at the data,
let's look at the texts, let's gather the evidence,
let's take all this seriously.
So one of the things I've done,
I was showing Derek and the group this before the show,
I just started creating an open science book
and the idea is kind of to allow for citizen science.
Some of your viewers might be familiar
with a platform called Zooniverse.
Zooniverse lets the broad citizenry
of the world participate in science.
So you can do things like look at space,
photographs of stars, of deep planetary and star systems,
and then people can classify those.
Because sometimes we as humans are better
at classifying certain galaxy formations
than a machine might be.
And it's through a bunch of human inputs
that the machine learning models actually get better.
There's the same thing with like war diaries
from World War I.
So machines might not be very good
at reading cursive from a hundred years ago,
but humans are particularly good at that skill.
And so by tagging every date and every name
and every place in these diaries from wars,
you can actually map out the textures
and intricacies of World War I far better
than any historian ever could
through this kind of crowdsourcing approach.
So that's what I'm trying to do
for the Marcianite stuff for the first time.
So I spent the better part of the last two weeks
doing quite a bit of coding.
And what I've done is produce a book.
So I hope this is like looks technologically pretty cool.
If you work in the hard sciences,
you're used to a platform
or a coding convention called latex.
So it was invented by a professor at Stanford in 1989.
And if you're a chemist or a physicist or a biologist,
you use latex for all of your publications.
If you're writing a thesis in computer science,
you're probably using latex for your publications.
Nobody in religious studies uses this.
Our religious studies publishers do use it though.
Brill and DeGroeter, they all use latex
to format their books
because they want it to look clean and consistent.
And they don't want to have to mess around
with a bunch of inconsistent spaces and tabs and so on.
So what I did is tried to come at this publishing project
in a scientific way by building a pipeline.
So basically it takes really well-crafted data
that's in a format called XML.
So it's structured data.
And I use a particular convention
or type of XML called TEI.
There's a whole group that's popular around the world
of it's called the text encoding initiative.
So it lets you really richly describe texts.
It's kind of like HTML for web pages
but much richer and much more capable of describing texts.
So I curated a bunch of data in XML
and then I built a pipeline using something called XSLT
and then latex and then PDF and various packages
in my Linux Ubuntu machine.
So right now on the fly, I'm going to let Derek,
like so let me first just English version of the book
so you can, so people can see it.
And this, just so everybody know,
you're getting a sneak peek from Mark on like the future,
I think of a lot of the way books,
I think will eventually go,
especially since you're cutting back on trees and...
Exactly, yeah.
So this is a book that I generated.
It's only got English translation.
So I'm going through all the attestations we have
by the church fathers,
by the patristic writers to Marcian
because I want to do a careful reading of those texts
and make them accessible.
Marcus in his forthcoming German edition
will have all these attestations in Greek and Latin,
most of them, but I've been finding more of them,
but I'm also interested in translating them
just to make them more accessible to a broad audience
so people can see the evidence for themselves.
So this book is in English,
you can see actually put Derek's name in the book
to say thanks for the promotional work today.
I haven't archived this, but if you look,
you can see this is a, it's a professional looking book.
I spent time crafting it to format it correctly.
And this is kind of the meter, the substance of the book.
So each attestation gets its own page
where you can read the original text.
So Latin here by Jerome,
he says in Marcian's Apostolo,
in English that would be in Marcian's Apostles.
So he's referencing this, it gives the place,
the volumes you can go look this up,
if you know the critical editions of the church fathers,
English translations, what scholars think about it,
and then a unique ID and some notes.
And the nice thing about this
is because it's an XML based book,
we can always update it and correct it and add more.
But one of the things that,
there's a bibliography here in the back,
I can point that out real quick too,
that was compiled using something called Biber,
I don't think it's pronounced Bieber like Justin Bieber,
but yeah, so this bibliography is compiled.
But Derek, I'm gonna let Derek now
just kind of choose your own adventure role-playing game.
Derek, I did this coding,
now we can produce the book
with any number of translations you want.
So if you like French,
if you like German, it's Dutch, DE,
but you could even go for the full,
like the full Monty and do the seven language version
if you wanted to.
You know what, you've tempted me,
and I was gonna give your computer a break,
but let's go with number nine,
I think that's the one, right?
Okay, yep.
So I'm just gonna click number nine here,
and you'll see this basically is like-
I hear a background on some,
I hear noise in the background, guys.
It's not with me, I don't know where it is.
I hear some noise too.
Sounds like a TV on or something.
So if you look, Derek just selected all these languages,
so now all these languages are embedded in the edition,
and if you go down to the quotations,
you'll see, again, the original language,
and then snippets in all of these different languages.
There's just a book, a guy named Toma Tosovak,
I think he's Czech, and he's the head of the,
what's it called, Lieber in Europe,
and he was just promoting a book called,
Multilingual Digital Humanities,
because in the digital humanities now,
we can create not just digital books,
but we can work across languages really quickly,
and it turns out our methods get much better
when we're working on things in multiple languages
at the same time.
So anyways, that's something that I just developed,
but there's also a Google form that goes along with it,
so I will archive this on a platform called Zenodo
during the show today,
but if people want to contribute to it
as a citizen science thing,
you can help us dig up more attestations
to Martin's Apostolos,
because we might not be finding everything, right?
I'm kind of thinking of this as finding gold,
and people like Marcus and I can work a long time
digging up all the citations we can find,
but we might still miss things.
So if we can sort of turn loose the global public
to search for all the attestations of Marcian
that are out there in all the writings of the church fathers,
people might actually turn up more evidence
that we haven't even thought about,
and then through this Google form,
you can basically add that,
and then it's a candidate for the book.
So it's still gonna be expert vetted,
I'm gonna make sure it's legit,
find it in a print source,
make sure the wording is correct,
check the translation or do the translation myself,
or bring in other people who are experts
in these other languages,
but just wanted to do that little digital book demonstration
as part of the episode today.
I'm gonna turn it over to Jack,
but we can come back around to some of these things later.
Hey, that's awesome, and by the way,
everybody, the links are in the description.
I know this gets technical,
but I'm looking forward to seeing some results from this,
and so Jack, we're bringing you on, man, all right?
So welcome to MythVision.
Thank you so much, it's been a long time into coming.
I know it is, and so tell us what you bring to the table,
and why Marcian too, you gotta give us,
you gotta give us your conversion experience along the way.
And truly that's the best word to describe it,
I think is conversion.
In many ways, I'm just lucky to hang on the coat tails
of Marcus and Mark, but nonetheless,
I am still a true convert to the Marcianite cause.
About six years ago, I studied under Marcus
in a lecture looking at early Christianity,
and in it, he detailed some of the controversies
surrounding Ignatius Fantioc
and the epistles which we mentioned earlier.
And this set me on a course to find out
whether Marcus was right or wrong,
which then became my PhD,
and I have since discovered
that I think Marcus was probably right,
and that most of what we know
or have assumed to be true about Ignatius
for the last 150 years is in fact false.
And the repercussions of this to me at the time
when I began this journey did not seem that great.
In fact, I thought that most people would not even look
at me because Ignatius Fantioc, who's heard of him,
who knows him, what's the point?
But what I quickly found out was that Ignatius,
as Marcus mentioned, along in some ways with the Didache,
acted as the last bastion of hope
for those who sought to date the New Testament,
and in particular, the Gospels into the first century.
And the first thing that I wanted to do
when I discovered that this shorter version
of the Ignatian epistles was more likely genuine,
was to see if we had any of our New Testament references left.
Where have they gone?
And are we still lucky enough to have them?
And the answer I found in almost a day's work,
which was that there was none left.
Our references to Matthew and Luke,
the two Gospels that are primarily referenced
by the middle ascension of the Ignatian epistles,
had disappeared.
And references also to Paul and his letters further gone.
And so then once you've destroyed those last two,
the Didache and Ignatius,
once you've destroyed those two as credible witnesses
to these canonical stories, these canonical texts,
you have to ask, well, then maybe as scholars,
we've got the whole question wrong.
We are looking in the wrong direction.
We're trying to see an evolution as canonical texts,
because more were received rather than just accepting
maybe that they weren't there,
and then all of a sudden there's a great burst.
If I may just to jump in here, Jack, to emphasize,
I had to look it up just to make sure.
Wikipedia says Ignatius was around around 108 to 140.
This is the sweet spot.
If he's talking about the Gospels and Paul, he should be.
I mean, there's no reason he shouldn't be.
But if you're suggesting the original is just three letters
that lacks these sources, these sayings and Paul's letters,
then we're in a conundrum here.
At least it opens the door to saying,
hey, this is not earlier at a station.
Like this, maybe Marcian's the first guy
who actually does talk about this,
and later they tack in to Ignatius letters
or invent a pistolary fiction
or something to tack on to Ignatius, right?
Yeah, very much so.
And it becomes all the more strange
when Ignatius in every recension
in his letters to the Romans mentions Peter and Paul by name.
So he doesn't know of these figures and he respects them
and he sees them as authoritative
and he makes great effort to make clear to the reader
that he's not as great as, sorry,
he's not as great as they are.
But yeah, he doesn't know his texts.
He doesn't know Paul's letters.
He doesn't know more obviously Peter's letters.
But then it went further than that.
And this is where Marcian's book Resurrection,
Early Christianity really hit me hard.
He has this great chapter in it
where he talks about resurrection mania.
So it's not just the text
that suddenly come onto the scene.
It's also the theologies and thoughts of Marcian
that burst onto the scene
that are not present in early Christian texts.
And so again, the resurrection,
this great theme of Paul,
this real centerpiece of all of his works
is something that is almost entirely absent
in early Christian literature,
including Ignatius' sort of ascension.
And yet all of a sudden with Marcian,
somehow resurrection becomes quite a key point
for early Christians.
And you think to yourself as modern Christians
or as what we understand of modern Christianity,
that's quite a significant theme in the resurrection.
That might actually be the key point.
And so why is it that somehow there's this figure,
this relatively obscure heretic writing in the 140s
or at least publishing early in the 140 maybe,
who creates a paradigm shift.
He doesn't just introduce texts.
He introduces new theologies.
He introduces new ideas that would become staple bread
and butter for proto-Catholic,
but also for other heterodox Christians.
And so this was the beginning of some of my journey of,
well, if we can't find what's canonical,
we have to look for something else.
And the real thing that sold me on Marcian
and his significance was the heresiologists
through whom we know about Marcian
and their obsession with him.
There are many early Christian heretics,
we know lots of them,
but the obsession, the deep-rooted vindictive sort of nature
with which they pursue Marcian and his New Testament,
particularly Tatalian and Epiphanius strikes me
that they must have seen him as a threat,
a credible threat.
And to be a threat,
I think you have to have large numbers
or at least a relative portion of people following you.
For example, if I started a new cult tomorrow,
I doubt Pope Francis or the Archbishop of Canterbury
would talk to me very much.
But with the Mormons, for example,
everyone has to engage with it.
And so too, everyone seems to feel the need to engage
in the early church with Marcian.
And so therefore I had no choice but to follow him.
And just as a way of introducing Marcian,
I feel like he's become in some way a friend.
And this friendship is actually one
that also extends back to the earliest parts of the church.
We have received about Marcian only negative things
and assumed that he has always been on the other side
of the team to proto-Catholics
because of people like Irenaeus and Tatalian.
But it seems to me actually
that in the earliest parts of Marcian's career and life,
he was actually treated as a fellow Christian
by Justin Martyr, for example.
Alien, yes, and different,
but recognized at least as part of the Christian denomination
and as a follower of Jesus.
And so therefore this intrigues me even further
to pursue him because we're not just dealing
with an obscure, difficult, maybe idiosyncratic lunatic.
We're dealing with someone who was at the time
accepted, I think, as not mainstream,
but certainly acceptable and within the realms
of what was allowed as a Christian.
And so thus I've joined on with these two
and we hope to find out some more maybe about Marcian
and what he has to say.
If I can chime in here to sum up what Jack just said,
the way I like to conceptualize that,
I haven't said this phrase before,
but rather than thinking that Marcian is your crazy uncle
or crazy nephew, we need to start realizing Marcian
as your daddy when it comes to early Christianity.
Yeah.
I think it's very interesting.
I'm thinking of like other studies,
like just social and psychological studies
of like if what they were wanting to do
was to get people to completely forget about him,
it may have worked at the time, politically,
it may have worked at the time with the Christians
that they were trying to keep away from this doctrine
and this guy's teachings.
But in the long run, they do not have omniscience
and they do not realize they created so much smoke
that now people are forced to realize there's a fire.
And that's exactly why you guys exist today.
Well, there's also, there's been a recovery
in this specialty in Catholic theology and history,
historical studies for the last 60, 70 years,
French scholar named Anglic de Lubach,
he was part of a renaissance of origin, right?
So origin was considered,
origin of Alexandria was considered a heretic
for the better part of the last, you know, 1600, 1700 years.
Turns out he was our greatest early interpreter
of the scriptures, genius, you know,
created multiple versions of the scriptures
and multiple languages.
You know, he's a fascinating person in his own right.
So people like de Lubach helped us realize origin
might be later considered a heretic,
but that doesn't mean early on he was a heretic.
And you can find the same story happening
over and over again.
Tertullian was a Catholic and he was considered Orthodox.
He's the guy who taught us the word,
gave us the word trinity for the first time.
He's the guy who gave us the word person
when it comes to the trinity.
And yet later he's considered a heretic, right?
Augustine, there's questions about whether he was,
he remained Manichaean, you know what,
that's one of Badun's specialties in his research.
A lot of his Manichaean affinities might have continued on,
even though his official narrative and the confessions
was that he converted back to the Catholic faith,
you know, because of his mother, right?
So the more you look at it,
the more you realize the line between heresy
and orthodoxy is blurry and it can change in a second.
It can change in a few years.
In another way makes me think of Constantine.
Like, was he really a Christian or is this a political move?
Or like, you know, these questions,
maybe it's a little bit of both.
I mean, there's so many interesting avenues
and we like a clean tradition.
I think that's why it's easy to gravitate toward,
we have a story and here's our story
and we got it all figured out.
Just you kick back, relax, let your legs sit up
and we've got it all figured out for you.
But it's way messier than that.
And there's something going on.
There's a lot of smoke.
So Marcus, you haven't spoken in a while,
but I'm sure something interesting's in your head.
No, absolutely.
Because when I hear about this kind of storyline
that people usually latch to and adhere to,
I think that's quite a romantic idea.
It's not a very old one.
I mean, it's been built up after the Enlightenment,
yeah, after the 18th century,
that people maneuver themselves
into a streamlining of that story.
Because if you think about the Reformation
and even if you think about the medieval period,
people knew about this kind of messiness
of the story of the second and third centuries
and even later, yeah?
People didn't have, for example, a clear New Testament.
People were striving for creating a New Testament,
for example, in the 13th, 12th, 13th centuries.
People knew that they had different manuscripts
of New Testament collections,
but with all kinds of variations, yeah?
Glosses at the center or at the margins,
or giving different readings,
quite strange ones sometimes, yeah?
But in the 19th century, people were obsessed,
I mean, we have this word obsession a few times today,
were obsessed in creating a clear and rigid text
of the gospels and of the New Testament.
And you will not believe it,
but we didn't have New Testament chairs in universities
before 1817.
So the creation of the New Testament tradition,
if you like, or if the New Testament scholarship
in strict sense, excluding patristics,
excluding the Old Testament,
arrives as a result from the romantic movement,
what we call in Germany, the Biedermeyer movement.
This is the time when people like yourself
didn't turn up any longer with red shirts from Baroque times
and with nice trousers of all sorts of forms and colors, yeah?
And hats and sombreros.
No, when you start dressing as a man in black and white,
and it was already a transgression
from this kind of a normative attempt
to streamlining life
when you started dressing up in blue, right?
So this is exactly what happened in scholarship
about the gospels and about the New Testament.
We had a streamlining of these texts only to discover,
and it was, I think, not just the result
of a post-modern craziness,
but it was a discovery
that this kind of a streamlining was, in fact,
more of a romantic ideology
than it was a display of what happened on the grounds.
So when I look into what we were talking about,
heretics and so forth,
I think one of the discovery I made is in the second century,
and probably throughout the second century,
I'm not the first one to have seen that,
we should not talk about heretics.
The first, according to one of the major scholars,
Alain de Boulouac, who wrote a big book about it,
years ago already,
he discovered that the first attempt
to create what we all have in our minds,
the heretics, was iron news,
the person we had heard a few times today,
but that's the end of the second century.
And the Boulouac even thinks that this first attempt
that iron news does in discrediting other people
was quite a failure.
And Mark just referred to it and Jack as well,
to Talion by some people seen as a heretic,
because he, well, he doesn't believe
into the Catholic church.
He claims the Catholic church are mediocre people,
whereas the spiritual people, he endorses,
are, in our views today, pretty crazy prophetesses
in Asia Minor.
Other people like Oregon is, as Mark rightly said,
the more important person, I think, than iron news,
with regards to the publicizing
of what we call a canonical New Testament.
Whenever iron news talks about a New Testament,
he only endorses, not willingly,
but only refers to Marcion's New Testament.
The first chap that we know who endorses a New Testament,
which is a canonical, our canonical one today, is Oregon.
Oregon, of course, who then for centuries became himself
under the shadow of being a heretic.
So I think we should dismiss all these ideas
about heresies in the second centuries.
What we have is, in the second centuries,
people who try to make sense of something
that didn't make big sense to most people,
namely that the founding father,
who was referred to as the creator of Christianity,
ended up as a criminal on the cross.
And that was a big shot.
I mean, how can you start a new cult?
And how can you do it if you move away from the cult family
where you derive from them, you Jews?
How can you appeal to people
by putting in front of your cult a failure?
And what kind of answer do you have to that?
You have to make up a story that he lives
and that he is alive,
alive amongst the people who continue and celebrate him.
And for that, I think we have loads of stories in parallel
and Mark has given us a soap and a few others,
but we have a range of these type of remakes
in the Greek and in the Roman tradition.
And I think this is how people then start trying
to make sense how to overcome a failure
and to make a success story out of it.
So no heretics, I think in the second century,
we're looking for the wrong people there.
More of people like ourselves who try to make sense
of what at first sight doesn't make much sense.
Thank you.
I jumped into a live stream the other night.
Mark was busy with Litwa,
I'm David Litwa for those who don't know Dr. Litwa.
And I had to ask a question that I think is relevant
to this first stream we're talking about Marcian here.
And that was, okay, what are the implications?
So we're talking about Marcian possibly being first.
Okay, this is cool,
but you guys seem to be very focused on Marcian
and you've been explaining details as to why.
But I asked it and it was really,
Mark, you did a great job.
Maybe you guys can all tackle it in your own way.
But I asked, what does it matter?
If he is first, how does that change what we're doing?
What New Testament scholarships doing?
How does it change the origins of Christianity?
You might each have a different perspective,
but please, each of you starting off,
let's start with you, Mark,
since you tackled it last time,
then let's have Jack,
and then let's have Marcus jab the last one there.
How's that sound?
Sure, yeah, I think it's helpful to talk about Marcian
as a person, they're different Marcians, you might say.
There's Marcian as sort of the real historical person.
You might say we are kind of together
questing for the historical Marcia.
Like, who was he really?
And when did he live and what was he about?
That's, there's also the Marcian of heresiology,
how he was depicted over the centuries.
And it just kind of gets worse and worse.
It's just, because once he's vilified
and that becomes the standard narrative
in the Orthodox churches, it just continues to be worse,
though he had adamant followers,
well up until the fourth and into the fifth century.
But then there's another way to think about Marcian
is the texts that he had and what his role was with them,
what his role was in compiling them and distributing them,
how active or how passive was he in that?
And then we can also think about the substance
of those texts, what's in them.
And I think that last category has really been my concern,
it's not so much about what role did Marcian have
as much as what is the textual data
that we can distill from.
And again, we don't have a manuscript of Marcian's gospel
except maybe some people think Clare Kleebaugh
and Jason Bedouin think Papyrus 69
might be a Marcianite gospel, but it's very fragmentary.
But we don't have a full manuscript of the Marcianite text,
but we've covered this in other episodes.
Scholars like Matthias Glinghart have shown
that there's so much affinities and so many connections
between readings that the church fathers give for Marcian
and actual manuscripts of Luke
that it really just doesn't make any sense
except to think that Marcian's gospel
was sort of the first edition, you might say.
And then canonical Luke was the second edition
of revised expanded version.
And then the same thing applies to the Pauline text.
So it radically changes things.
In terms of coming up with concrete dates,
that's gonna be up in the air a little bit,
but almost, I would say 95% plus
of New Testament scholarship is done under the assumption
that Luke's gospel is before Marcian,
that Matthew's gospel, Matthew and Mark
and with those hagiographical names,
those are all earlier than Marcian
and give us an earlier version of Christianity.
So it pretty radically changes things
if you flip it on its head
because Marcian doesn't have things like
a virgin birth of Jesus.
Marcian doesn't have Jesus being baptized.
So all of a sudden, like the Virgin Mary, she's gone.
She's not a part of the story at all.
So if you have a version of the story of Jesus
that starts out with pretty elaborate stories
about how Jesus was born and his family and all that,
if you think about what Christmas would look like
if you just took Marcian's text,
there would be no shepherds, there would be no angels,
there would be no wise men, right?
It's just an adult, right?
It's similar to Mark's gospel like that.
Again, I'm hesitant to use the word mark
because as a name for a person,
but it's similar to that text
in terms of beginning with Jesus as an adult.
It's similar to other texts that we know of
like Gospel Thomas doesn't have an infancy story,
although there isn't infancy another gospel by that name.
But if it's earlier than it,
a lot of the stuff that we take as early and standard
and they're from very early decades in Christianity,
we really do need to push it back
to about the mid-second century, most likely.
Remind me after you all,
because I do not want to interrupt you,
but remind me on what kind of genre
do the scholars who are reconstructing Marcian's gospel
put it in?
I know that, and this is something I really want to get into
because there are apologists today who,
and I'm talking about like Adam and this all is historical,
what we're reading actually happened
and they're trying to harmonize unharmonizable things
in my opinion and just kind of wild stuff,
but they always say,
well, the majority of scholars put this in biography,
and therefore somehow gives it more realistic
that this really goes back to what actually happened,
kind of they're trying to take that angle.
And I see a mix of genres and stuff that are in there
from novel to this to that, especially with acts,
but I wanted to get your thoughts about Marcian's
after you each tell me if Marcian's earlier,
because this is more important to answer my opinion.
Well, how does this affect us?
How does this change it?
Does this blow the lid off everything we thought we knew?
All right, go into you, Jack.
I don't think that any university course
is still relevant if we're right.
I think that every single university in the world
is currently teaching a focus course
on New Testament and Sunday Christianity
because it essentially dismantles the last 150 years
of everything we've known.
And so there's no point even beginning
to recycle any of the material.
I mean, I've recently taught the synoptic gospels
at my university in London.
And I taught it the traditional way
because it's my first year there.
And I thought I would just sort of not break with the trend
and mention Marcian briefed at the end.
But as I was writing this fairly sort of traditional course,
I realized that all of it was nonsense
and that none of it could stay the same
because if Marcian's gospel is first,
whether he wrote it or not,
or whether he partially wrote it, whatever,
it means that especially in the case of Luke,
but also for the other three,
that they are all in some way dependent
and engaging with him.
And therefore we have to reinvigorate the search
for either a protogospel pre-Marcian,
another cue maybe or something else.
We have to begin to look again
at what we know to be early Christian,
maybe sort of late first century.
It raises again the question
of where the resurrection came from.
I think it aids the historicist's view of Jesus,
which I've done a video about actually on Jacob's channel,
on the history of Alley,
because I think the early Christians are more obsessed
with the crucifixion of Jesus rather than the resurrection.
But essentially we could spend the next three hours
talking about how it impacts the field
because ultimately everything that's ever been written
needs to be rethought
because it just doesn't work anymore.
Marcus, bring us the poetic answer, my friend.
Yeah, I'm not sure, but a pretty honest one would be
the divinity of Christ,
I think is a idiosyncratic idea by Marcian.
Because he doesn't believe,
he's a good Platonist in this sense,
he doesn't believe in history.
And he tries everything in these,
both in the Gospel and in Paul's letters
to discredit what we believe
and know as the value of a concrete life in time.
And that's why for him,
the Savior has to be a divine figure
which comes from heaven and is disregarded by this world.
This world different from John's Gospel is not his own.
He's not received by what is his own,
but he's alien just as the divine figure is alien.
So first of all, I think if Marcian were first,
I think then the belief in a divine Christ
is a myth, it is a vision.
So it's well up to your channel.
The second element, I think,
what it is is that even the idea of God is a vision
and maybe a myth because he claims
that this God has been unknown for all of the ages
before the appearance of this divine figure.
So no Jewish God, no other God of the Greeks,
no other God of the Romans, no God.
It's an Olympus of nobody.
Like you said, a faithful Platonist,
this ultimate divine almost name of God.
So, and this is ungraspable, non-understandable,
it is a wonder.
And that's why this messianic figure
has to be a wonder worker.
So I think the second or third now,
so Christ's divinity, the divine himself,
all divine acts, walking on water, going through doors,
it's all myth.
I think that's his idea.
It's platonic thinking.
And I think we can go further
what Marcus has been saying, Jagus.
Well, I think most of what we think people believed
is a replica of what they grasped
from this visionary textual author
was I'm sure, and that's what we try to explore,
has some reliance on earlier traditions.
So there is some historical graspable facts behind here.
So we might come to the conclusion
that there was a sort of Jesus.
There was a sort of Paul.
There were some people out there.
There were probably even sayings
that make very good sense here, which are extraordinary.
But until we come to that stage,
I think we still have to dig more into the data
and the facts.
But what I'm just thinking is at the moment,
the first century in my view,
as I tried to state in this resetting Christian origins,
the book which I published just last year with COP,
Cambridge University Press is a black box.
And this is an image which even I didn't create myself
when I sent the publisher the draft of my book,
he came back to me and said,
oh, we shouldn't call it whatever.
I tried to call the book first,
but we have to state that it is a black box,
the first century into which people put in
whatever they want to believe and hope.
So Derek, you're in a good environment.
You can put in with the first century
all the visions you have and you will be right
because I think nobody can dispute it.
It is another way for I am completely ignorant
when it comes to ultimately navigating these
without someone who's aware of the literature in and out.
I mean, I've read the letters of Ignatius.
I've read some of the letters of origin, what he's written.
I'm not like anyway close to being a scholar
or even aware of this material,
but I'm aware that there's competitive nature
in the early Christian church.
As we know, we've been pointing out,
you have accusations from early church fathers
trying to say, look, Marcian did this.
He redacted this Luke.
And then you have, I'd like to get,
if there's any evidence that you guys have
vindicating Marcian based on your view
that actually his was earlier and they tacked on material.
They padded it out to make it what they made it.
I don't wanna give too much information
because I'd like to get an answer to that,
but like even when I spoke to Bart Ehrman,
who's very traditional in his approach,
completely traditional.
And even students of his say, he's outdated.
Some of the stuff that he's doing is just dated
and you can read this stuff from the 80s
and he's still doing some of it.
My question is that, is there any evidence
as far as you're aware of that someone in the early church
is vindicating Marcian or at least saying, hey,
and I know winners wrote history, the guys in power,
they wrote history and preserved what they wanted to.
And sometimes we get to see things,
that smoke that shows fire,
but that is saying actually, no,
it's the other way around or hinting at it.
Is there anything you found that gives
that kind of evidence?
Yeah, of course.
Let me give you two a nice story first,
which explains a little bit
and then also a bit of a scrap which indicates that.
First of all, when Matthias Klinghardt first engaged
with this question, he came to the conclusion in 2008
in an article that Marcian might be earlier than Luke,
but still is later than Mark.
He was doing these comparative studies
and he was adamant that Marcian relies on Mark
as a gospel.
When I invited him to the Oxford Patristic Conference
in 2010, he was absolutely adamant
that Mark is the earliest one of the sources
of Marcian's gospel.
And then by studying the text itself,
in light of all the evidences, all the witnesses,
all the manuscripts, fragments and variations,
he flipped the entire story and published a text in 2015
or two volume reconstruction of Marcian's gospel
by saying, this is the earliest gospel.
However, to save the New Testament romantic idea, I think,
he claimed that Marcian didn't touch the text at all.
He just made use of it.
So you can see how you maneuver, yeah?
How you twist the story by still preserving
the old romantic appearance and vision.
So that this still goes before Marcian.
It's this idea that Oral, or even here's this text,
it's still floating around.
Marcian just used it, he didn't scribe it.
You're suggesting we need to look at him
as the brain behind the operation, at least to some degree.
There may be others involved,
but this guy plays a pioneering role.
And if not, why do they spearhead him?
Okay, any other evidence that you have?
Yeah, when we look into every evidence we have
from the second century.
And we start again with this nice iron ears,
the person, the bishop from the late second century.
Whenever he talks about the gospel as a text
and the New Testament as a text, he engages with Marcian.
And not with Valentinus, not with anybody else.
He never engages with a pre-Lucan text.
Nobody in the second century knows of a text
which is pre-Lucan, none.
That includes Matthew and Mark, correct?
Yeah, okay.
We have then a scholar also from the second century,
very famous for at least the specialist is Papias,
Papias of Jofia Rappers.
A scholar, we can't precisely date him,
but around the mid-second century.
He writes books about the Lord's oracles.
So not stories apparently, but more,
maybe some stories, but more the same.
And here he gives a story about John, the gospel writer.
And he knows and talks about a conversation
between Marcian seeing John and discussing gospel writing.
Where in the story, of course, John is the hero.
He claims that his gospel is the true one.
And Marcian apparently claimed the same for himself.
He produced what Mark called the antiteses.
So the preface to his gospel.
And Papias talks about that John,
by reading this preface of the gospel was a port
and thought, oh, that's a bad product.
So mine is better, which tells us
that the gospel writing process is,
and we might even be a bit skeptical
when we talk about priority here.
The gospel writing process was a process
by which people like Marcian were writing,
while at the same time John was writing.
And they had engagement like we tonight,
they had engagement.
Now, who of the four of us was first?
The only thing I can say is I'm the oldest, yeah?
But so many ideas.
I got from Jack, I got from Mark,
I got from one of your channels,
from one of the sessions here,
and from the questions you ask.
So I think it's nonsensical to talk in terms of priority
and in genealogy that A takes from,
or B takes from A, C from B, B from C.
No, I think it is a classic network experience
that was made in the second century,
where some ideas certainly came from Marcian.
I mean, the probably pretty bright ones, yeah?
For other people, pretty stupid ones.
And, but how this process can be entangled
is quite a problematic question.
Before you guys,
because I'm gonna let you guys have the panel here
on the screen, I gotta use the restroom real quick,
but I wanna make one comment.
I realized why I brought up Bart Ehrman was that,
you know, in his Orthodox Corruption of Scripture,
he kind of does this,
well, they're responding to Marcian in the literature,
but he places it later in church history,
third century and stuff,
where he thinks that the scribes are doing it then.
And that's probably because there's a lot of evidence
of it happening then.
But we have to go back and go, whoa, whoa, whoa.
In our New Testament,
and this is shocking to the fundamentalist, right?
Like me, I'm speaking to myself 10 years ago.
In your New Testament, the text we're reading,
a much of this is responding,
I guess you'd say negatively,
but giving their positive theology against this guy,
we call Marcian.
That's a big deal, that's a huge deal.
So I just want that to like sit on people's minds,
even people like Bart,
who have more of a classical, you know,
traditional German idea of romanticism and stuff, you,
you know, we're, he's seeing it,
and he's saying,
this is what's going on in the textual tradition and stuff.
So anyway, Mark?
Marcus?
Jack?
I think there needs to be a burden of pushing back
against the Marcian at research that's happening, right?
So, you know, what Marcus,
and if you look at Jason's text too,
you find all these patterns where a bunch of features
that are in the canonical text
are not in the Marcianite text.
So the names of all of Paul's friends,
absent from the Marcianite text,
all the places that Paul visited and acts,
most of them gone, right?
So it doesn't make much sense
that Marcian would just remove all of this stuff,
where Paul talks about himself as a maternal figure,
where Paul talks about his suffering.
That stuff's not,
so all the stuff that really angrilyizes Paul,
that makes him look saintly and heroic and so on,
that's all for some reason missing from Marcian scriptures,
even though Marcian was all about the glorification of Paul
and following Paul as the main,
but then the same thing happens with Jesus too.
So in Marcian's Immigaleion,
all the travel references that you find in Luke's gospel
are gone, all of the elaborate family
and social structures around him,
the names of all the disciples, right?
You find all of these features again and again,
where you can just see that it's a simpler story
versus a much more complicated and elaborate story.
So I think the burden of proof now really needs to be
on scholars like Airman and others to say,
what is your theory of Marcian as a redactor
who would do this?
Like, how can you explain how all of this stuff is removed?
Cause a removal program just doesn't make any sense
of the data at all.
When you look at the depth of the patterns,
the breadth of the patterns, the diversity of the patterns,
and it's thematic, but it's also linguistic,
it's geographic, it's every single facet you can think of
to analyze the data, you see a more simple dataset
versus a far more complex and elaborate dataset
in all of these instances.
Derek's gone, but I guess we're in charge now.
We kind of can take over.
We can take over.
But I think that the challenge too.
I think we're too serious.
Resurrection, here we come.
You missed my great, you missed my best moments, Derek.
How did I do that?
Jack, you were going to say something and then,
cause I know that we'll go on and on.
And I wanted to not leave anyone hanging
who had questions through super chats,
try to get those knocked out.
And what I'd like to ask before we have you do what you do,
Jack, is that can we do this again?
This is fun.
Pleasure.
Oh yeah.
All right.
Pleasure.
We don't get into the weeds too if you want.
If you really want to get into the weeds,
we can get into the weeds,
but it depends on what you and your audience want.
Okay, I'll leave it up to them.
I'll do a, we'll do a Q and A,
I'll do a community tab Q and A poll and like ask people.
And it'll also let people who aren't aware,
who didn't get notified,
cause YouTube's weird like that.
They might go, Oh, that's a topic.
I really do want to hear more on.
And so they can get a heads up.
Yeah, why not?
Oh, I was just going to say, I mean,
the challenge to, to the current New Testament dating,
to my mind, it's actually,
Marcion is irrelevant because the problems with dating,
the canonical gospels in particular,
still is present without Marcion.
Let's say in some crazy world, you know,
we understand that Marcion had no influence
on the canonical gospels in some crazy universe.
Yeah.
We still have no evidence or quotation or reception
of the canonical gospels in the early church fathers.
So their issue still remains.
This is a separate question apart from Marcion.
The fact that we have Marcionite scholarship,
the fact that we're pushing that,
is only in some ways a second string to that bow.
They have to answer the first question first,
which is, where did your cannon go?
And then answer, what was the influence of Marcion on that?
We're only a part of that problem.
And the first problem they've known about,
as Marcus said, back in Kurt Alon's time,
and they've just refused to answer it.
They just don't want to engage with that as a question.
And that's the big problem.
It's an interesting one to ask,
especially for people like me, who were like,
we had our New Testament, the cannon,
these books were there, right out the gate.
And it's like, hold on, it took them
how long to figure out to put these books together?
You have diateserans popping up.
You've got all sorts of fun stuff
that they're trying to make sense of.
And it's like, they wouldn't do that
if there wasn't a problem, in my opinion.
And there's so many things you guys have said
on this stream that make me think.
There's just so many things.
Going with the data sets,
Mark's trying to do this scientifically.
Marcus, you've got me thinking about the social,
actually it was Jack, I think,
that really made me think of the social,
what's going on with Ignatius.
And is it Ignatius or Irenaeus?
Both.
Both, yeah, because there's a problem.
It was Ignatius' letter to the Romans
that freaked me out.
I just read this last year and I was like,
I hate to be controversial here,
but this was one of the most soundingly suicidal letters
I have ever read.
I want to die is like the subject matter of this chapter.
Dude, no thank you, please.
And if they won't kill me, I will insist and make them.
And then I want to be the food
and the belly of the beast with the end.
It's just like, whoa, this is heavy.
Pretty strong letters there.
But all of these things make me think,
like, what if you guys are right?
And if you guys are right, what does this do?
It just makes it even more like,
can we know and do you think you're gonna hit,
do you think you're gonna hit a limit
in saying, I can't go behind that.
We can't reconstruct behind that.
Or do you think there's gonna be questions
you'll never be able to answer
unless we get further evidence of it,
like material evidence.
Do you think you're gonna hit a wall?
Look, that's like asking the cancer specialists
whether they are going to hit a wall.
I think there is no wall, right?
But I think it's a long journey in front of us.
I mean, we have just,
we're just crapping the surface according to my views.
I mean, I'm now reconstructing this earlier version of Paul
which has not been done at least in the way
we are able to doing it now based on computer science.
And for that, I mean, without Mark,
I wouldn't have been able to doing what I'm doing
at the moment, which cost me one more year
because a year ago,
I had done a reconstruction until we get to know each other
and it was like getting back to the whiteboard
and start again.
And so when I thought I had hit a wall a year ago,
it turned out that it's a universe in front of me.
So, but what I can say is,
A, I think we get a better understanding
for the earlier version of Paul and this Paul
and probably that's worth another session for sure.
Probably we can even dig deeper into Paul.
But I think this Paul that we are reconstructing right now
is in many, many ways a very different Paul.
Whether that's the historical Paul, I don't think.
Whether it is based on a historical Paul,
potentially yes, but you see,
there are many more question marks
that are being put behind Paul
with that kind of a reconstructed work.
What I've always, what I've also seen in the reconstruction
that we can trace what people have seen for a long time,
that there's a difference between seven letters
and three letters, which in critical scholarship today,
pretty normally are being called pseudo Paulines,
Ephesians, Colossians and Second Thessalonians.
And it turns out that indeed the lexicography,
I mean, the texts, not just the content,
but also the grammar, the style
and many, many other features, right,
are linking these three letters
with our canonical New Testament,
rather than with the seven letters
which are being credited to Paul.
But I tell you, we are at the surface at the moment.
We are scratching our fingers,
and you will see, I've not much fingers left here.
So we're doing a hard work, yeah?
But we are far from, we are far from the end.
One quick example, I heard that there's a dissertation
that's about to come out at a prominent university
about Romans nine through 11,
as the heart of Paul's letter to the Romans
and Paul's whole theological program.
That entire, almost the entirety of it
is missing from Martian's texts.
So that's just one example, but it's-
And to add to that, the big junk
on which the Reformation was built, Romans four,
the same thing.
Yeah.
The Reformation I think is built
on canonical later texts, not on-
Yeah, because when I've,
this is why we definitely needed to do a show,
because I've delved into the various kind of interpretations
of understanding Paul.
I went down this rabbit trail,
I can explain better in a session on that,
that we have time, but Jason Staples,
I don't know if you've heard of him.
He's writing his, on Israel and New Testament stuff,
and he's been writing extensively on this.
And like, what is Paul up to with Goyim or Gentiles?
The word Israel doesn't occur in his text.
Really?
So this is, and it is odd that this is the only place
in the entire Roman corpus, the letter to the Romans,
that Israel is the name that gets brought up.
It's not mentioned anywhere.
It's not in Martian's text.
It'd be interesting to get your take here
as you're reconstructing these, Marcus.
The, the, the Ju Gentile dynamic,
maybe that might be in Paul's actual letters
in your estimation, or at least the earlier version of it,
what is the dynamic there?
Or is that all gone?
And so let's talk about that sometime.
I want to get to the super chats here.
We have five, I believe, yes.
And then I'm going to wrap things up
and encourage everybody.
Mark, I know you wanted me to promote something.
Yeah, just the book that I deposited.
It's got a little credit to you on it,
but it's, it's now live.
The, the one that you chose.
Okay, this one?
The full Monty version.
No, those, that's an orchid link.
I didn't send it to you before the show.
I just sent it to you in private chat during the show.
It's got the Zanotto, Zanotto link.
So it does a DOI to-
This one?
The Apostolos had to say, yeah, yeah.
Okay, and this is the book you said?
Oh yeah, it shouldn't be restricted though.
Let me, let me change that right now.
Okay.
Yeah, someone asked about it
and said it was restricted earlier too.
So I'm glad that you're-
Sorry, I'll change.
I was focused on the show.
No worries.
I'm going to go ahead and post that again
just so everybody has the book here.
And do you want me to put this in the description?
Sure.
Okay.
I can tell you it's a very important book
because I'm making use of it
by doing my revision of the reconstruction.
Okay, I'm, look, there's a lot of links.
Okay, everybody forgive me in the description,
but I got our guests links are all first
and then later down the line, you catch myth visions.
But here's what the page should look like
and it won't say restricted.
So have at it.
All right.
It's live now.
Perfect.
Thank you.
First question is from JC.
Thank you for the 10, my friend, you rock.
Consensus be damned.
I appreciate these scholars challenging dogma.
Can they do a quick recap of Marcian's life
and how he got labeled a heretic plus his work lost
except in commentary plus Luke?
Meaning, can you spend another hour and a half?
I'm just kidding.
I'm just kidding.
Does someone want to give a synopsis?
Yeah, maybe just two or three sentences about him.
He, according to the witnesses we have,
he died before the year 161.
So that's quite a secured date.
So just after the mid of the second century.
So if you reckon he was an old man,
so he might have been born around
the turn of the first century.
He was living in the north of today Turkey
in the Black Sea border.
And his hometown was Sinope,
which is the most northern city of today Turkey.
It was one of the centers of the Roman army.
And it was the, well, a town
of an important Jewish community.
Pretty much as important as the Alexandrian community.
And it was a Jewish community
which is famous for the textual studies
because Aquila, a Jew, revised the Septuagint,
the Jewish Greek Bible in Sinope.
And he is a contemporary of Marcian.
Now, because Marcian is so obsessed
with the Jewish writings,
we know of nobody in the first three, 400 centuries, right?
Who would not be part of the wider Jewish community
and engage with Jewish writings the way Marcian does.
So that's why I wrote once an article about Marcian the Jew
because I think he comes from this kind of Aquila background
of Sinope where he studied and learned studying
and reading and writing.
At the same time, he comes apparently
from a wealthy background
because we know that he is a ship owner.
He is not sailing and fishing,
but he is lending ships to the Roman army, to other people.
So he's making big money.
And apparently either he retired early like me
or without the big money,
but he just got fed up with the business
or he was running the business so well
that he could spend most of the time
at least between the closure of the sea
which is from October to March in Rome.
And there he opens a study hall
after the failure of the second Jewish revolt.
So after 138, he must have moved to Rome
and he seems to have brought with him these texts,
the gospel and the 10 letters of Paul
which he put together only in Rome as a New Testament.
And according to his own words,
reported by Tertullian,
he put together his New Testament
because as he says, his gospel text
was nicked by colleagues who also taught.
And these texts were given the names of apostles
and pupils of apostles.
And just like Tertullian
who also publishes his text against Marcia
because it was stolen twice
and published under his name
but in a revised version.
So Marcia publishes his text with his preface
where he sets out these arguments
that his text is different from these rogue versions
which today we know as the canonical gospels.
And publishes his New Testament
to make sure people know
that his New Testament is different
from these poor versions
which make those links again with the Jewish tradition
which he tried to have said.
During his lifetime, he was never called a heretic.
Tertullian claims that 20 years after his death
he was thrown out of the church
but how can you throw out somebody who was 20 years dead?
So this is non-starter
and the Marcia night community
which apparently he created in Rome
still is in sacramental community
with the Catholic church in the mid third century.
So far for this nonsense heretical stuff, right?
So there was close relations
even about a hundred years after he had died.
Thank you so much.
Victor Engelman, thank you for the super chat, my friend.
Mark was named Marken.
Marcien was pronounced Marcien, I guess you'd say.
Mark's gospel also matches all infos
that I know about Marcien's gospel.
Couldn't Mark's gospel be a corrected, quote unquote,
version of Marcien's gospel?
It's exactly what Klinghart says.
So he's saying that Mark is trying to correct Marcien's.
Exactly.
And there's this kind of...
When you read my new book
which has just appeared a month ago, Christ's Torah.
This is exactly what I'm trying to show
that Mark particularly as the first one
starts using Marcien's gospel and correcting it.
I know that Mark was sitting here with us
has a slightly different view.
And I'm not saying that I can make a judgment right now
about the pre-stages of Marcien's gospel.
That's something we need to explore
in more depth in the future.
But I'm not able at the moment to have a firm view on that.
If I could follow up a little bit more
about the question too.
The words are quite similar in Greek,
Marcon and Marcionan or Marcionas.
I think Marcion would be considered a diminutive form.
Am I correct in that, Marcus?
A diminutive form of Marcos.
Exactly, it's more Marcus.
And then there is a little bit of confusion
or conflation sometimes in the patristic witnesses.
So Epiphanias sometimes will refer to Mark's gospel
as Mark, he'll say that some group like the Manachians
affiliate this with Marcionas.
So there is some ambiguity.
And in the Epiphanias also writing late fourth century
says that the opening of Mark's gospel is, what was it?
No, he says the opening of Luke is,
no, he says the opening of Mark is Luke 31.
That's what it is, that's what I'm trying to remember.
So what is quite clear if you compare Mark with Marcion,
there are large sections of Marcion's gospel
which are missing in Mark.
So that somebody could come to the idea and say,
oh, well, this is the small Marcion of the small Marcion.
Thank you so much.
It would not be too far from it.
JC, how did Marcion get Paul's letters?
Can Dr. Vincent give a preview of what key elements
of authentic's are missing in your reconstruction
versus canonized?
That's a very good question.
I'd like to defer that question to another session
because I think the answer would be longer,
but just to have one sentence on it.
We are not quite clear where he got this text from,
these seven letters.
And whether the form in which these seven letters
are preserved in Marcion's collection,
how close they are to a potential letters of Paul.
This is a big question I have
and on which we would need to go into detail.
The other three letters he must have derived
from an environment which is very close to the people
who do the reduction of the texts
so that they become canonical texts.
That's what I can say.
We're gonna have to dive, yeah, we're gonna have to.
And by the way, I'd love to do,
we can do panels, we can also do just having you,
Dr. Vincent and having you, Jack,
we can plan out some stuff
because I'd like to get your specialties.
And I feel like the panel might even distract
from being able to hone in on that one thing.
And yeah, so, okay, Victor Engelman again says,
and thank you so much for these superjads.
How can all known letters of Paul have passed through Marcion?
The only plausible explanation in my honest opinion
is that Marcion invented Paul.
Yeah, I thought that as well.
And I had to reject that idea,
not because I want to historicize Paul
or I want to hang on to these romantic story lines
so that we, at the end, we have a Paul, right?
So that was not my intention,
but what I discovered is that
when you look into the lexicography of these texts,
you can see there are stumbling elements
which are not liked even by,
apparently by Marcion as a redactor.
We can see it in the gospel
probably more easily than in Paul,
but we can also see it sometimes in Paul.
In the gospel, for example,
we have this story that Jesus has come to bring the sword
and to divide people and to engage in disruption,
which is very much against the grain
of Marcion's attempt to redact the texts.
And we have similar elements in Paul.
So I do think despite my love for myth vision,
it is not just myth, but there are some facts behind,
but to unravel those facts,
we have to be visionaries and data scientists.
So poetic.
You know what?
I do want to, I think it's worth it.
You've done it the whole show.
I might as well emphasize this.
I think there was a guy,
and I don't only think there was a Paul,
I think there was a Jesus.
Not because I need there to be a Jesus.
It just, to me, makes the most sense in my head
based on what I've researched and looked at,
that they mythologized the hell out of this guy to me.
But at the end of the day,
when I named the channel, Myth Vision,
I was a mythicist.
I did think that Jesus didn't exist,
but I'm glad I didn't name it Mythicist Vision
because then it would limit it
to possibly being mythicist only.
However, I was fully convinced,
and I think I am encouraging viewers,
that we're dealing with mythology in these materials
and that we should embrace that,
not try to reject it or try to hide it.
And I think that sometimes you,
first you think, ha ha, I got the fundamentalist,
but then you start kind of enjoying the fact
that we're dealing with legends and myths,
and that's where the fun is to me now.
It's not like I got you and I get the poke in the eye.
Sure, I get the poke in the eye a little
if you're a fundamentalist,
but there's some other fun to literary inventiveness
and creativity and stories and stuff,
and you find it all over.
So that's, I just had to address that
so you understood that like,
my goal is along the way to have our vision
notice the mythology or the legend,
sometimes use synonymous,
but you know, there is a distinctive,
like myth usually has no historical veracity,
whereas legend can be a mix of both.
I'm not getting overly picky about the definitions,
but I think it's important just to emphasize that
for the viewers.
But yeah, thank you.
John D, thank you so much for the super chat.
What are the implications
if Marcian's collection of Paul's letters had priority,
not even a Christian or New Testament scholar,
and the idea makes me queasy?
So they're saying, I'm not a scholar,
but the idea makes me queasy like, oh crap.
In simple terms, it means that what we've been taught
is the New Testament, is Paul, are the gospels?
These are all early Orthodox mid-second century creations.
The Paul you think you're reading,
that you think is the historical Paul,
and that scholars routinely tell you,
this is what Paul's about, I'll tell you about Paul,
this is the real Paul, the Paulic letters,
that's a mid-second century Catholic
or early Orthodox creation.
It has, there's just so much extra that's put in
when you compare Marcian's texts with this.
Again, Paul has a minimal social network.
So a lot of the people that are just standard associates
of Paul, like Timothy and Barnabas, they're gone.
Titus is there, but very minimal.
He doesn't have this massive, fundraising.
There's a fun one.
In Marcian's Paul, Paul doesn't really care
about money or ask for money
or talk about how much he works,
how hard, what a hard worker he is,
and working with his own hands,
and all the kind of ethic you find in the did okay,
like person doesn't work, he doesn't eat,
that's not there.
But in Paul's, the canonical Paul's letters,
he's trying to raise funds like a beast, right?
He is a fundraising machine extraordinaire,
especially second Corinthians, but throughout,
and he's really good at giving guilt trips
to try to get people to give him money.
Yeah, I'm not asking for money.
There's a very different,
there's a whole fundraising Paul program
and a hagiography Paul.
Paul's an apostle in the early one,
but he's not really a saint.
The Catholic version makes him into a saint.
The Paul of the letters, again, the authentic Paul,
he's also just self-obsessed.
So you read Marcian's Paul,
he doesn't talk about himself,
but in the canonical Paul,
Paul's always talking about himself, non-stop.
It's the canonical Paul,
the New Testament Paul's a narcissist,
then Marcian Paul's not.
He doesn't really care about himself that much,
he's not talking about himself that much.
He's focused on other things.
How often do you guys get involved about going to hell?
It is interesting that the more historically
you get into the canonical Paul,
and the more facts, the more fiction it is.
Okay, there's less legend, less embellishment,
less fancy.
There's, it shows that the more of the New Testament
is legendary, that the legends are far more encompassing
than we think.
And particularly if they give a quasi-historical taste to it.
So the quote which Paul has forgotten
or any kind of these historical details, right?
Or the relation to Timothy or whatever it is.
All the places he visited
or spending 14 years doing this and writing to that guy
and all that stuff.
It's like legends.
I mean, legends grow by adding quasi-historical facts to.
All right, facts, trial facts.
I didn't mean to interrupt you.
I was gonna say, how often do you get emails about,
you're going to hell.
Cause this is definitely controversial.
Yeah, I actually got lambasted on Twitter,
maybe six months ago by Catholics.
I am a Catholic, I remain a practicing Catholic,
but these guys just sent me maybe 50, 100 tweets,
just absolutely lambasting me for days.
And I think it's quite amusing really,
but yeah, you bring up Marcy onto a bunch of fundamentalists
or even non-fundamentalists,
although I'm saying that even some secular scholars
didn't really want to talk to me at a conference
because of Marcy on, so we won't just blame them.
Wow.
Well, I hope that changes.
And this, I hope episode starts to set a different tone
on the scale,
cause a lot of academics do watch MythVision.
And there's some real good conversations we have here.
Sorry I had to deal with that, Jack,
but I want to say this as someone
who's not a person of the faith anymore,
but I'm glad someone like you exists.
I'm glad it's not just a bunch of guys up here
who might have a non-faith position
or don't participate in the church, I don't.
I'm glad you do.
And you're seeing this and that, in my opinion,
gives it more credibility that, hey, here's a guy
against all odds and for no good reason,
is drawing this conclusion when his fellow members
and brothers in the community are saying,
that's our arch nemesis.
How could you, how dare you?
So I'm glad that you're sticking to your guns
and going based on facts and not just tradition.
What is coming?
I think more, I'm sorry, go ahead, Jack.
I was just gonna say Marcus is the arch heretic.
So it's really him that's the problem, but.
Yeah, no, it's not about, yeah, it's not about heresy.
But what it is about, I think, is collaboration
and teamwork and scientific inquiry, right?
And if you just start with the heretical category,
you can just keep dismissing and ignoring Marcy and his texts
and just go on about your merry way.
But I think we're starting to see in this moment
in history, coming together,
where scholars are starting to work together
and collaborate and benefit from each other's work.
And it's like, there's so much energy put into creating
the critical addition of the New Testament.
And we need to realize that is bringing,
that's trying to tame a massive diversity of evidence,
just like Marcus was talking about before.
You have so many different manuscripts
of what people thought the Bible,
there was not one Bible, the whole idea of like a Bible,
that's a myth, right?
There's many different Bibles.
So the whole modern critical effort
to create a critical addition that is authoritative,
that is standardized, that changes very minimally,
if at all, that takes a lot of curation and care
and consensus building.
And that shows you where the energy is.
There's so much energy into creating those kinds of things.
But I think now we're starting to see,
there's enough of a critical mass of scholars,
your interest in just ferreting the stuff out
and looking at it seriously and honestly,
that we're kind of entering into a new moment, I think,
where this is going to be taken more seriously.
And the more people just do data science,
it's becoming so much more easy
to do data science in these days.
Like, this is why we did a cowgirl competition.
Companies like GE and Pfizer,
they'll put up competitions on Kaggle or Google
and they'll have thousands,
tens of thousands of people working a problem
and they come up with meaningful solutions
and then they share that with each other.
Like we're in the moment of open source code,
open science, open literature, open data, open access.
So there's a lot of money and energy around that
and a big shift to the digital humanities and academia
that, well, at the same time,
a lot of religious studies positions are disappearing.
So I think we're in this moment, Derek,
where a lot of the people that were the movers
and shakers in religious studies,
like half of their positions will be gone
in the next 10 to 20 years.
But data science positions and digital humanities positions
will continue to multiply.
And the more that we just free this stuff up
so that anybody can research it
and it's not just the province of super specialists
who read 10 languages and read classical languages,
the more we democratize this area,
the further we'll get in the study
and the more we'll just change the way
the whole discourse goes.
Thank you.
Two more and then I do have to go.
The mythic life, thank you for the super chat.
Can we discuss Marcian's interpretation
of the Old Testament God and contrast
to our traditional Orthodox view?
Yeah, shall I pick it?
This again, I think would be worth a full session.
But just from my perspective,
I think the biggest difference is
that the so-called Old Testament God has numerous,
at least in the Jewish writings,
numerous human-like features.
So he is loving, but he's also hating.
He has peace on his mouth,
but then he's cursing people.
And I think this worried Marcian particularly
as he was writing after the defeat
of the Jews against the Romans.
It was a massive blow to follow up
of the Danielic interpretation of the Messiah.
Daniel's interpretation was that he would be a Messiah
coming to restore peace,
but by killing a number of the princes before.
And I think the experience of having a Jewish Messiah
Bar Kokhba as the frontman of this disastrous defeat
of the, in the second Jewish war.
I think Barcian could no longer put up
with an interpretation of the Old Testament
by claiming that this Old Testament God
would need warriors fighting their cause
against the Romans in order to reestablish
the state of Israel.
I have so many questions on that.
Just came up when you said something.
I was like, oh my gosh, we got to talk about Bar Kokhba.
We got to talk about all sorts of interesting things
that play into that.
JC says, Steve Mason shows Luke,
Gospel of Luke, we all know what we're talking about here.
Use Josephus, legendary details from Josephus
added in by later gospel authors and editors
and more as historical biofictions.
Yeah, I would say Josephus cuts both ways.
I think he gives us reasonable historical information
about what's going on in early to mid to late for century.
But yes, Steve Mason is absolutely right.
There are many, many spots where canonical Luke
is using Josephus, but not actually using it very well.
There's often like mixing up of the order of names
or confusing the dates of things.
But I think he wants to make whoever wrote canonical Luke
in the 130s, 140s or whatever that redaction
wanted to make his text sound like historiography,
like apologetic historiography, defending this movement.
It's similar to what Justin Martyr was trying to do.
And so he'll tell stories like about the Tower of Siloam
in Luke 14, that sounds a little bit like something
in Josephus, but he's completely fabricating it.
Like it's highly, highly embellished.
There was no collapse of the Tower of Siloam in Josephus.
There's just a reference to Siloam and a pond down there,
but Luke tells it and then uses Gamatria,
the number 18, which is also the number of the age of the,
I'm sorry, it's the Gamatria for the name of Jesus.
But then a woman, I think previously,
a woman who had been in bondage for 18 years, right?
So there's a match of 18 and 18 right there.
So there's numerical plays going on there.
There's elaboration that's, again,
takes Josephus as kind of a jumping point,
but then goes way beyond what Josephus is trying to do.
So yes, it's absolutely trying to make it sample,
like plausible historiography,
but it's really quasi-historiography in a lot of these cases.
And perhaps I should add that in more recent times,
critical scholarship becomes even more skeptical
about what Josephus seems to know about Christians.
We have to know that Josephus has only been exclusively
been transmitted for hundreds of years by Christians.
And while we know about all the changes
that have been done to Christian literature,
we can imagine that similar undertakings
have been take place with the works of Josephus.
The Testament of Flavianum is one of the major examples
for that, but also what he talks about,
John the Baptist and other things, right?
So it'd be very cautious.
Like the Pliny-Tracian letter exchange,
why would this letter be the only letter
in the entire collection of almost a hundred letters
which claims to have been sent to the emperor in secrecy?
So sealed as a sealed letter,
the only one amongst all of the other letters.
Because this is the most important issue.
It raises doubts, I mean, at least in my mind.
Yeah.
This is, oh, there's so much.
We've got to do more.
And by the way, I don't know why Darth Vader
came into my head when I read this
and then you started talking and it was like,
Luke, like Marcian Saint Luke, father.
You know what I mean?
I don't know why.
Matthew K says, late Christmas gift
and a happy new year, my friend.
Thank you, Matthew.
And for everybody watching, I appreciate,
or I'm sorry, much love to you and your family, Derek.
I appreciate all that you do and the guests you bring on.
And I appreciate all the guests.
They always spill the beans,
teach us all the cutting edge stuff
and hearing various arguments.
We love to bring on new ideas and this is new.
And this is long overdue.
I've been, I've been twisting Jack Bull in the private chat.
Does he want to come on or does he not want to come on?
What the heck?
We're here and it happened.
And I thank you all.
Are there any final words from each of you?
And then I will end the stream.
Thank you.
Yes, thank you.
Yeah, thank you.
And all the questions are always stimulus
for further research.
So thanks so much.
Thank you.
I just wanted to give you guys a final say.
Let's do this again.
I will do it,
because I'm so busy all the time,
to make a poll on the community tab
and we'll get some, some chats going,
maybe on Facebook as well.
My Facebook group.
We'll get some chats going.
Maybe on Facebook as well.
My Facebook group to get people's ideas of what they think
and what they'd like to see covered.
I know that we have plenty of topics.
So thank you guys.
I really appreciate it.
Cheers.
Thanks.
Thank you.
