Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon, not only to support us, but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis R. MacDonald and Richard Carrier, all on the Patreon, Early
Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and your help
on MythVision Grow.
Dr. Dennis R. MacDonald, we have some questions from Dr. Robert M. Price.
I asked him to throw him in the bag, he said okay.
First question we have, and we'll just deal with this one video at a time unless for whatever
reason we can go.
Despite the Jesus story's heavy dependence on Homer, do you still think there was a historical
Jesus?
Do you think it's realistic to think there might have been a historical Odysseus too?
Bob, thanks for your question.
No, I don't think there was a historical Odysseus, so we can take care of that one pretty quickly.
I'm going to give you an image that I find helpful as a metaphor for understanding how
I view the synoptics.
I lived in Denver, Colorado for 19 years, and in the winter we often would have low-hanging
clouds, and you couldn't tell that you were in the foothills of the Rocky Mountains.
You couldn't see any of the peaks, but later in the day when the sun dried up the clouds,
you would see these beautiful white-capped mountains on the front range from Longs Peak
to Pikes Peak, and in the distance you would see a number of other layers of mountains,
but in the distance you couldn't be quite sure if they were clouds or if they were
snow-capped mountains, but you knew there was a front range, and you knew there was
a front range because the clouds had dissipated and now you had clear skies.
Mimicist criticism's virtue is that it can remove the mythical layers that I am sensitive
to, and not critical of, but Jesus's memory went through processes of mythologizing, and
I know that you agree with that, but the sun comes out with Mimicist criticism and it
dries up and you see then other peaks.
Not everything in the Gospels by any means can be explained in terms of mythology.
So then what's left?
What's left is actually very distinctive, Bob, in my view, in many different ways.
One is it exposes a different and distinctive social identity where now the concerns are
not Greco-Roman, they're Jewish.
Now the inner texts are not Homer and Euripides, but they're Deuteronomy and the Psalter.
Furthermore, when you take a look at the mythological layer, Matthew and Luke are always
later than Mark, but when you look at this other material, you have this phenomenon of
reverse priority.
Often, when Mark and Matthew agree with each other, Matthew's version is more primitive,
and it's even more spectacular with Luke.
Sometimes Luke, though written, I would say about 50 years or so after Mark, has primitive
material earlier than Mark and earlier than Matthew.
Now these have been recognized by people who try to reconstruct Q, but in my view they make
a mistake in thinking Luke didn't know Matthew.
So you reconstruct Q according to the two-document hypothesis by alternating primitivity.
Sometimes Matthew is more primitive and sometimes Mark, Luke is more primitive.
But if Luke knows Matthew, and I'm sure he did, you can't use that.
But reverse priority allows one to reconstruct the front range of the Rockies.
In other words, there is a lost gospel.
And by the way, Luke, when he says in the prologue that many have undertaken to write
a narrative of the things that have come before us, he's not talking about two.
Two does not make many.
Four does make many, and in my opinion he knows Q, Mark, Matthew, and Papias' exposition.
And I know that that's unusual and surely debatable, but that's my view of it.
Now once one looks at this material, it's clear in my view, Bob, that the Q-document
is not a Christian document.
It's not salvation by believing in Jesus' death.
Jesus is not raised from the dead.
The heavy mythologizing of the synoptic gospels is missing.
Jesus is a Jewish teacher who probably loses his life because he challenges traditional
Torah enforcers who enforce Torah in such a way that it harms women and the poor and
tax collectors and collectively sinners.
So I think you get a double whammy from the mythologizing Jesus' understanding because
it dissipates the clouds, lets you see the front range.
Now some of the peaks are weaker in their attestation.
It's not so clear.
And I'm perfectly willing to back off on some of the examples that I think that I would
attribute to the Q-document.
But Mimesis criticism and the Q-plus-Papias hypothesis and social identity theory collaborate
with each other to establish that there was in fact a lost gospel.
And furthermore, the lost gospel is probably the lost Matthew that Papias refers to, citing
the work of the traditions of John the Elder.
That is, John the Elder and Papias knew three gospels, one gospel of Mark and two gospels
of Matthew that they both thought were translations of a Hebrew.
So I appreciate your enthusiasm about Mimesis criticism.
I think you do believe in Q, but I think Q is actually our most important witness to
the historical Jesus.
It has its own mythologizing.
Jesus is the prophet like Moses, and the author has his own agenda.
But I think it's reasonable to think that Jesus lost his life because of his challenge
to Jewish law, such as we find in Q.
Interesting.
So the question bearing on Odysseus' historicity has zero bearing on Jesus' historicity.
It's just kind of a template.
I think you said before, it's like a hero worship, or another way of putting it is we
have modern ideas like Elvis Presley and things like that to kind of put on to Jesus.
You think this is what's going on with this cult?
I think we have so many examples, Derek, of historical characters getting mythologized.
I'll give you some examples.
Alexander the Great.
No one doubts that there was an Alexander the Great.
And we have magnificent, wild mythologies about Alexander the Great that have already
started in the Hellenistic period and continue through the Roman period.
We have Apollonius of Tyana, who surely was a real person.
And yet we have these wonderful legends about him.
We have, think of, I believe that there was a Peter and a Paul.
These are real people.
What are the apocryphal acts of Paul and Peter?
So, this business about mythologizing doesn't mean that the characters that get mythologized
themselves are mythical.
It rather is that you have historical characters who have thin dossiers and religious imagination
comes along and fills in the gaps.
And they do so by these mythological tropes.
Very interesting the way that you phrased that.
And it makes a lot of sense if we can, if we're willing to say Paul, the acts of Paul.
Okay, what do you do with that?
Yeah, Peter, the acts of Peter.
And going into the other writings of Peter, that's an interesting point.
So why are we drawing the line and then go, well, that guy doesn't, but this guy does.
And I guess we could say, well, one's actually deified.
So there's this next level, but then you can also use deification to show other characters
or humans, if you will, that existed were also deified.
So.
Well, and let's give credit to Bob's question.
Bob, it is certainly the case that mythological characters get remithologized.
So yes, you can have a mythological Odysseus who gets mythologized over and over and over
again, in fact, in Western history, I think of James Joyce and Ulysses and so on.
But sometimes this mythologizing happens with historical characters.
And I know that Bob, I know that you know that.
So that would be the analogy that I appeal to him.
Thank you.
