Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
You just mentioned that Paul's version of understanding the resurrection, if I could
use that term, really cosmic resurrection, started with Jesus.
Cosmic transformation.
Cosmic transformation.
Which included Jesus' resurrection.
Exactly.
As the firstborn of many.
I think it's interesting, he talks about there's a resurrection for the stars, it
seems like our transformation of the stars, transformation of this, he's not just talking
about flesh and humans, and it's much bigger, and it's a really pretty chapter if you consider
what he's trying to think of, like a better world.
But one of the heart of the issues, if I can get there, is Christian apologists are adamant.
As church creeds teach and whatnot, there's an authoritarian approach.
You don't buck against the church, however you being a scholar who does not have that
authority telling you what you must think on this subject, but you want to get to the
heart of the problem, as do I.
Paul is the earliest horse.
What did Paul think Jesus rose from the dead was?
What was this resurrection to him?
Was this a real guy who was killed by real Romans?
Possibly Jews involved in some sense, so we talked about the Pharisees potentially being
liberal in many ways.
We don't know if they were collabing, we don't know, I'm saying that to say maybe you might
have a comment on these things as we go.
Paul, did he think Jesus flesh and blood resurrection occurred?
You mentioned this in your book, I don't want to tease anyone, I want you to say it.
They gotta go read your book too because you actually become a source about a teacher of
righteousness or one of these teachers who's written, who dies, and it supposedly rises
in three days, but they know his corpse is in the wilderness here, like what is this?
Simon of Priya.
So here we have the earliest attestation.
Paul believes he did rise from the dead.
And if he did not rise, our faith is in vain.
What does he mean?
Because church fathers and Christianity says, no, no, no, he rose physically and so will
we, they go to later gospels.
So starting earliest, what is the chronology and what happens with this whole thing?
Let's start with Paul.
I mean, he tells us what his view is.
And earlier in 1 Corinthians 15, he says that Jesus died in certainly other places,
he says by crucifixion, the cross, the stauros, the stake.
So he died, he was buried.
So he says he was buried.
So I'm fine with the burial pole.
That's early, first tradition, and he rose, and then he was seen or appeared.
So what we got is a sequence, death, burial, and appearances.
Empty tomb is probably irrelevant in this sense of, I mean, that would be the gospel
stories of somebody when and the stone was away, and I want to get to that.
But in terms of the substance of the resurrection, if somebody has just died two or three days
later in the case of Jesus, or even at the parisea, when Jesus comes, he says the dead
in Christ will rise first.
Let's say someone died one hour before the parisea, their body's hardly cold.
Okay, they're still going to get transformed into this glorious body.
So let's forget Jesus a minute.
Let's put this corpse on the table.
Died an hour ago, we're weeping, we're crying, maybe women are washing the corpse, getting
ready for burial, and all of a sudden Jesus returns, and we're watching the corpse.
Now does that corpse get up and go, oh, wow, I'm resurrected now.
Man, I'm hungry.
I think I'll have some food.
Or does that, this is a cosmic event where the, if, and I am a living guy and I'm getting
transformed, all of a sudden I look like something, I mean, you'd have to have CGI.
Maybe some sort of whirling, you know, I'm turning from the physical mortal state into
the glorious state that he, that we picture in terms of shining and glory and incorruptible.
Well the same thing is going to happen to that dead person.
So I guess if we could video it, it would look like some sort of light energy or something
just now would there be a residue or something left or something, you know, would it look
like, well, the table's empty now, oh yeah, there's the new glorified George up there,
he's with us, you know, you got to think of it like that.
Because what happens is, because Jesus was killed three days before, I think he died
on a Thursday and they discovered the tomb empty, according to the Gospels on a Sunday.
But because it's recent, people get into the body.
But for Paul, Paul didn't care about bodies, bones, anything.
You know, he just think of all the varieties of death, dust and ashes is the way to think
of it.
Everything finally goes back to the dust, eventually.
And many graves are unknown and remember those who are at sea, which is the most disposable
kind of place to be buried because I don't think you'll last long in the ocean.
So we're not interested in any of that, you see, it's the same process.
So what is the process?
The process is to take, you could call it the soul, the spirit, the essence of that
person, which is in God's keeping, and you say, yeah, but he just died.
But if the spirit has left the body, you know, do we need the body to get the resurrection
so we can transform the body to something spiritual?
Not according to Paul.
So I think Paul thinks in terms of what, it's a Greek word, but let's learn it, apotheosis.
It's well known in Greek literature.
It's the idea that a mortal kind of melts away and the immortal is glorified and emerges,
you know, in its new state.
And so let's just go to one of the Gospels, just take a minute and then maybe we could
do a segment on the Gospels, but Mark, according to Mark, the women go to the tomb.
It's empty or we could even say Mary Magdalene, if we want to bring in John, but Mary Magdalene
seems to be the leader.
They go to the tomb, probably Mary Magdalene, the mother, Salome, that's what Mark says.
And it's empty.
There's no angels, there's no earthquake, there's no mighty declaration of glory.
There's just like, what happened?
Where is he?
Okay, then they're told by a young man, not an angel, a young man, go to Galilee, you
will see him as he said, because he had told them after I'm killed, I'll meet you in Galilee.
Now, how historical that is, I don't know, but I'm giving you what Mark's view is, because
Mark is the one who records what's called the transfiguration, the transfiguration in
Mark 9.
If you want to understand resurrection, read the transfiguration.
It's the same idea as Paul's transformation, that's how you connect Paul and Jesus.
So what happened?
On a mountain, he said, go to a mountain, or go to the place that I told you, I think
it's the Mount of Transfiguration.
I think they went back there, they've already seen a prefiguration of it in a vision.
Well, what was it?
It's exactly what Paul says, Moses appeared, Elijah appeared, and Jesus appeared, and what?
They're blinded by the light.
They're literally just almost struck dead.
This is called epiphany, right?
So apotheosis is when it's a dead person who's coming forth.
Metamorphosis would be a live person, Jesus is alive.
So suddenly you've got, I'm looking at Jesus, and he begins to transform into this new state.
This is Mark 9.
They think it's the kingdom of God.
And afterwards they go, oh, why do the scribes say that Elijah's got to come first, and how
could we be in the kingdom?
I think they think they're just going to march down to Jerusalem, and they've got Moses
and Elijah behind them, maybe up in the clouds, and Jesus is going to kind of hover over.
But all of a sudden it's like a dream, it goes, and they saw only Jesus.
So they got to see a vision.
So I'm going to take this, not historically, I don't know, I can't answer that.
I can't tell what somebody's visionary experience was to Mark's view.
Mark's view is that the tomb was empty, they went up to the galley, he doesn't record it,
but Matthew does, Matthew does record it.
And they went to a mountain, Matthew even says a mountain, so he's got this tradition
too, and they saw Jesus.
And then he says, and some doubt it, that's really interesting, Matthew 28.
Some are like, I picture it kind of like I'm on a mountain, there's 11 of them, Judas is
not replaced yet, and they look up and they see this phenomena.
And some are going, some doubt it, let's say two, two are going, yeah, it sounds like
him, but I don't know, I don't know, whatever the experience was, some doubt, according
to Matthew, that's interesting, but let's stay with Mark.
So what is Mark saying?
He's saying exactly the same as Paul.
You bury somebody, and now does that mean the corpse got up and then went into this
sort of whirling sort of transformation and was some residue left behind or anything?
I mean, they don't report that they saw anything in the tomb.
You don't really focus on that, because what you focus on is what has happened, remember
Jesus gives up his spirit, into your hands I commend my spirit.
That's what is transformed into this new state, not the body.
Now the body, if you're living, it's the body, but if you're dead, God doesn't care
about bones or corpses, believe me, according to these writers.
So that would be my view, metamorphosis, transformation.
When would you say the earliest in our New Testament canon, do we see the doctrine that
becomes the creedle, he died physically, rose physically, and we didn't?
Well not just physically, the bodily, physical resurrection.
Right.
I used to, I...
Because they're spiritual physical.
You want to say with internal organs, without being gross, because you're going to be eating,
I assume he's going to be going to the toilet and everything.
And do you think that their intention when they wrote this was this point?
Well I think Matthew, he does have the women at the tomb run into Jesus, but he basically
says, you know, go to the galley, you know, like everybody's going to see me up there.
So Matthew might have that, but the first clear part, the clear story is Luke and Acts,
and there it's very clear.
Yeah.
John's obvious.
And the reason you know there's competition going between the two views of galley and
Jerusalem is that Luke has this thing in Acts where Jesus tells them, do not leave the
city, do not leave the city until the Holy Spirit comes upon you.
And yet in Mark, they're told, go to galley and you will see him.
Well how are they going to see him in galley if they don't leave the city?
That's why John includes both, because he's trying to harmonize with me.
So what happens?
Let's stay with Luke for a minute.
So Luke has him make a, right away he's making appearances.
On that day, the very day Sunday, first day of the week, he sees the two men in a mass,
sees the people in the room, the disciples gathered.
Now that's described in a mysterious way because he seems like he just kind of appears
and then disappears, we call that epiphany, but he does eat, eats quite a little bit of
fish I think or something like that.
And then Acts says that lasted for 40 days.
He appeared among us in the Greek word, can even mean like he ate meals with us.
So for 40 days, we're just, every time we gather or often we gather, oh, he's here again,
oh Jesus, you're back and he's teaching them and this is Acts chapter one, the first chapter.
And then he finally heads up to heaven.
Now that's very important and Luke tells you why he says, they thought they were seeing
a ghost, the word ghost, because we got tons of ghost appearances in the ancient world
and ghost appearances are not credible.
Kelsus, the critic of Christianity, second century, 170, we have him from origin.
He goes, these hysterical women, they probably just saw an elucination and that's what people
are beginning to say toward the end of the first century.
How do you know you just didn't see it ghost?
Oh, he's transformed in heaven.
I saw a light.
Okay.
So you think, and this is cool.
I love, I love where we're going.
You think that that is the polemic.
You're not downplaying and I'm with you on this.
I'm not downplaying potential experiences.
I don't want to take that.
That's not my goal.
I do look for natural reasons for why people might have experiences, right?
And okay, there's probably reasons why a post-mortem experience with someone you loved, there's
psychological, there's a lot of good reasons behind that, but we're not even going there.
The point is, is because of their opponents, the naysayers, those who are discrediting them
probably.
Yeah, it's a literary work.
Luke is knocking the obvious- He's solidifying this Jesus.
That's the obvious criticism of the Hellenistic world, okay?
Because there are many stories, you know, the most well-known is about Apollonius of
Tyanna.
It's a little later than this, but, you know, and you have, I have, if on my website I have
quite a few others where people have written whole books on this.
So I think Luke is writing with that in mind.
No, this is real.
That was flesh and blood, and he says, a spirit doesn't have flesh and bones.
Well, that's not Paul's resurrection.
Now there's a way to harmonize it.
First he came forth physically, and then he got the Pauline transformation.
You can go there, but that's not what Mark says.
Mark says you'll see him in Galilee.
And as my teacher Norma and Peron used to say, University of Chicago, Mark are early
as gospel.
When he talks about resurrection, he's talking about, we don't know what that is, I'll just
finish even with the noise.
When he's talking about resurrection, hey, it's reality, he's talking about what happened
at the Transfiguration, which they took as the Kingdom of God.
Jesus said, some of you standing here will not taste of death till you've seen the Kingdom
of God come with power.
And then he takes three of them up on a mountain, and they see a vision of the Kingdom of God
come with power.
Well later, the whole group sees it, 500 brethren at once, Paul says, James, the others.
But Paul's interested in that glorious experience, and that's what he reports.
What he would think of the empty tomb, I'm not sure.
Thank you.
