Christians and Jews believe that God brought Israel out of Egypt and that there was an actual
historical exodus as described within the biblical account. The skeptics sometimes go so far as to
say there is no history to any of this, it's all a fiction, there's nothing to grab ahold of. Well,
today the scholar we have takes a balanced approach and says there is some history here,
but the story itself may not be what you think.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host Derek Lambert,
super stoked about today's show. We're going to be talking about the exodus. Like, when did it
happen? Where did it happen? Or did it really happen? And what is it? A cultural memory? What
does that even mean? And so, as you can see today, I have Dr. Ron Hendl. Thank you for joining me
today on MythVision Podcast, sir. You're welcome. Happy to be here. Thank you. Yeah, so I want
everybody right now. Check out the books, right? Recently, five views on the exodus,
historicity, chronology, and theological implications, counterpoints. This is like a
book about, or a debate, if you will, among scholars on the various views of exodus. When did
it happen? And then finally, yours, they saved the best for last on saying, you know, did it even
happen? And what is it? A cultural memory? What does that even mean? You're going to hear about
that today. The book of Genesis, fruit and monotheism, reading Genesis, 10 methods, remembering
Abraham, steps to a new addition of the Hebrew Bible, text critical studies. So we have someone
in high caliber joining us today, if you will, on Hebrew Bible, these studies, the ancient studies
of this text. And Professor Hendl has been a member of the Berkeley facility, or faculty, sorry,
since 1999, and has served as chair of Jewish studies, the Department of Near Eastern Studies,
and the graduate program in ancient history, and Mediterranean archaeology. Hendl, if you
don't mind me saying that, approaches the Hebrew Bible from a variety of angles, history of religions,
textual criticism, linguistics, comparative mythology, literature, and cultural memory.
He is the editor-in-chief of the Hebrew Bible, a new critical edition of the Hebrew text,
whose first volume was published in 2015, and to spare you guys reading the Bible of all the
stuff he's done and the works that he has committed to, he has a PhD from Harvard University on
the Hebrew Bible, Hebrew studies. And with that being said, the carpet is rolled out,
and maybe you can introduce us to the Exodus. Did this thing happen, the way that it is presented
in the Bible, and don't you love the way I'm phrasing this, if you're like, no, but if you don't
mind, I'd like you to maybe elaborate, like everyone thinks that it happened in this period,
in that period, and this is how it happened. I like to say the maximalist position is exactly
what the text says in the Bible is what actually exactly happened. What is your take on this,
and how would you like to introduce us to the topic? Thank you. Well, this is a can of worms.
I would say, no, it didn't happen in the way that the story goes. But on the other hand,
it's a great story. And the story itself has an impact that I would say is more profound than
merely historical events. But if you're interested in merely historical events, yes, there's certain
things that happened that gave rise to this memory. There's certain things that happened that gave
rise to this story. And then once the story crystallizes, the story itself has certain
historical effects. And those historical effects resound to the present day. So when you're talking
about the past, when you're talking about history, when you're talking about events, it's really a
complicated kind of a tapestry of different things that flow into this, different threads,
different whoops, different weaves. And historical events, I'd say, are only part of the picture.
But there are historical events. There are things that happened that gave rise to this story. Now,
let me just say, in any, and this goes to the question of what cultural memory is,
every people, every group, every country, every, you know, sports team has their own stories about
their origins, about their heroes, about their history. I'm sitting here in the Bay Area,
and I'm a big fan of the Golden State Warriors, and we have a kind of mythical history ourselves
and certain heroes. You know, and some of that, a lot of that is historical. Okay, we have this guy,
Steph Curry, who's like supernatural and how he makes shots and plays the game.
But there's legendary accretions. Okay, and there's ways that, the ways that one's memory
of these events happens, the memory takes on a life of its own. So over time, these things become
more and more legendary. Again, using the basketball analogy, you know, mentioning names like Bill
Russell, Michael Jordan, Larry Bird, Magic Johnson, you know, these are historical people,
but there's legends that go along with that. And as they say in Hollywood, you know,
if you have a choice between the legend and the history, you choose the legend, because that's
what's powerful, that's what motivates you. To use another analogy is, as Americans, we all grow up
with certain stories about what it means to be an American. And we're taught these stories,
we're taught them when we're very young. Okay, and the stories themselves are legends and a lot,
there's historical details in them, but they're legendary.
You know, some of this, and let me say, once you learn what's historical and what's not
historical, and what's in the story and what's left out of the story, these things become more
complicated. So this is, this is where we are today with the story of the Exodus. But let me go back
to America. Nowadays, people talk about George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and all of a sudden
they're controversial, because they own slaves, and Jefferson was having sex with one of his
slaves and this sort of thing. So there's all sorts of reckonings of actual historical events.
But what we're taught as children is that these are legendary people. These are people that are
perfectly good, that are role models that embody certain values. And those values that they embody
are values that we revere as Americans. Okay, George Washington, you know, he's honest, he cannot
tell a lie. I learned once that the story about George Washington and the cherry tree, which
all Americans know because you taught it as a kid, it's part of our collective cultural memory.
It never happened. He never chopped down this cherry tree and his father asked him if he did,
and little George says, I cannot tell a lie. The first time we find this story was in a book
by a minister written for children about the life of George Washington. And this book was
written decades after the death of George Washington. No one had heard the story before.
Okay, so historians are pretty confident that this story never happened. It's an apocryphal
legend about George Washington. But it's the story that we all know. That's what I was going to say.
It's the story that's part of our cultural memory. It's one of those things that it almost is irrelevant
to the public. They're like, I don't even care, even though they'll say they care, especially when
they have a vested interest in these stories. I think that happens. That becomes an issue. We
find that with fundamentalists, because I was a fundamentalist myself, is that I had so much
interest in every word, being an errant, infallible. I had this strange, magical view of things, so
much so, that everything literally had to have happened. And you would be popping my bubble big
time with this episode today if I was still a fundamentalist, but I'm glad that I'm exploring
these things. That's not what really leaves the impact is whether it happened or didn't. It doesn't
matter. What you're saying is the story, and that's what we're going to delve into on the Exodus.
It's the story that's the thing. And so the story about George Washington, we know George
Washington existed. There's all sorts of empirical proof I once saw in a museum. I mean, there's not
only pictures, paintings of him and stuff. I once saw his wooden dentures on an exhibit in a museum.
So there's empirical evidence. There's actual stuff you can look at that proves that George
Washington existed. But this most famous story about him never happened. And this most famous
story about him is precisely what encapsulates these values of what it means to be an American,
or what it ought to mean to be an American. These are the values that are encoded in the story
that we're all taught. And in a sense, as you say, it doesn't matter whether the story is historically
true, because the story is something that evokes a deeper truth that's beyond the merely historical.
So let me say that the same kind of calculus, the same kinds of analysis,
apply to the story of the Exodus. It's the story that encodes certain values and that
contains a kind of worldview of how things work or how things ought to work and the kind of values
that people internalize that are taught to you as children, that are taught to you as a member
of this community, whether you're Jewish or Christian, they're taught to you in a certain
context, a tapestry of ideas and orientations. And that's what counts. So the story has value,
it has truth, it has a kind of paradigmatic quality to it that is independent of whether the
events really happened. And so that's what I want to emphasize. So it's not historically true,
the story itself didn't happen just like George Washington and the cherry tree.
But that doesn't mean that it's useless or you should throw it away or that it has no meaning
or that it hasn't been a profoundly powerful phenomenon in our history and in our memory.
So it's part of our collective identity. I mean, it's part of a particular group or more than one
group's cultural identity. And as such, it's very powerful and has had very powerful impacts
from the Iron Age to today. So the fact that it didn't happen in the way that it's written
is almost kind of accidental. I mean, or it's kind of peripheral, it's kind of less important
than what the story is and what the story means and has meant for people. So you want to know
what happened, though. Yeah, of course. Okay, so we want to know this. We live in a society,
a modern society where historical inquiry is an important thing. But let me just add a warning.
Historical inquiry has a warning label that goes to it, that historical inquiry can make these
kinds of cultural memories complicated and can upset people, like telling them that George
Washington never did this thing with the cherry tree. Like telling them that Thomas Jefferson
was kind of a weasel in certain ways. People take that personally, but it's true. He did this,
that, and the other. And nowadays, people are reevaluating things like Thanksgiving.
In the Bay Area, there's an actual anti-thanksgiving that happens out in the Bay
where Native American people get together and have a ceremony and they call it an anti-thanksgiving,
because they're not so thankful that the pilgrims came and took their land and wiped them out and
things like that. So, you know, historical inquiries and even the historical memories of
other groups can come in and kind of critique what those memories are. And then you have to say,
well, maybe things didn't happen quite that way. You know, Columbus Day when I was a kid was a big
thing. Now in the Bay Area, it's called Indigenous People's Day. And you don't praise Columbus so
much anymore. So this is what happens when cultural memories, on the one hand, are subjected to
historical analysis and are subjected to other people's cultural memories with with whom the
previous cultural memory, you know, they might differ with or it might, you know, be an impressive
memory for them. So this is my apology for saying we can look at what happened, but some people
will be upset. Most of my channel, just to give you a little bit of my audience, are critical
thinkers. And they are interested in the actual truth empirically. They want to know this did
not happen. This did happen most likely because it's probabilistic. You know, we have good evidence
to inference this, this, that, and how your view, I'd love to hear this throughout if that's possible,
because you do this in the book, actually, how your view, for example, James K. Hofmeier, Professor
Hofmeier, he's a smart cookie, but it'll be interesting to hear like the problems as we go to
say, yeah, they just don't, they're forcing things in your estimation or whatever.
Yes, and he was really pissed off at my contribution. I think he was pissed off that I was in the book.
Okay, so what happened? But I'm trying to set the stage here so that, you know, the word truth
applies to historical inquiry. But again, there's different levels of truth. There are truths of
the values, the orientations, the things that the story has done, you know, and those are all true
in a different way. Okay, so what's the historical truth? The historical truth is that,
once again, these, these events in the story of the Exodus didn't happen historically. Okay,
there were no, you know, plague of frogs that jumped out from everybody's kitchen cabinets,
and the Nile didn't turn into blood and all of that sort of stuff. Those, those things don't
happen. Those are things that happen in stories. Okay, they don't happen in the real world.
It also didn't happen that all of early Israel came from Egypt. Okay, we archaeologists tell
us that, and there's been a lot of archaeology of early Israel, and what they tell us, and I'm not
one of them, so I'm just conveying what they say, archaeologists have excavated a lot of sites
from the places that became early Israel. So this is around 1200 BC when this nation
crystallized into being a specific nation, and what the archaeologists tell us is that this was
primarily an indigenous movement. That is to say, most of the people who belonged to early Israel
had been Canaanites previously. They'd been local people. They were farmers, they were nomads,
they were people who were shepherds, but they were mostly local. Okay, who lived in the area of Canaan,
and there's no indication whatsoever of any Egyptian cultural traits or architectural
traits or pottery or anything like that. These are local people. What it looks like, and again,
this is what the archaeologists tell us, is that in this period when the Egyptian empire was collapsing,
and this is what I'm going to pick up on this in a minute, in this period when the Egyptian empire
was collapsing, and all of the lowland Canaanite city-states were also collapsing, big economic
and political collapse, a lot of people moved up into the hill country, and the hill country of
Israel, the hill country of Judah, the hill country of the north of Israel, this is where Israel came
into being as a nation. It started as a kind of small-scale tribal society, but we have this
proliferation of small settlements, unwalled settlements, interestingly, in this hill country
region. This is where Jerusalem is today, and much of ancient Israel settlements started there.
These are small, rural settlements. These are small, rural people, and they moved there,
and no one had lived there before. So it's largely unpopulated previously.
In America, we understand this. This is kind of an opening of a new frontier, where very few
people lived before, and now this place could be cultivated, and you could live there, and you could
get away from the chaos that was going on in this period of the decline of the Egyptian empire and
Canaanite city-states. You could go up there, you didn't have to pay taxes to the Egyptians,
and you could just have these little rural communities. Now interestingly, they're unwalled,
which means that they were peaceful. This was not a violent settlement. This was not a violent
beginning of a nation. It was just a kind of migration into this new frontier.
And all of their technology and their cultural patterns are all local Canaanite stuff,
and when we later start having written materials and inscriptions and stuff,
you know, it's all local. They speak a Canaanite language, which Hebrew is. Hebrew is a Canaanite
language, and it's a Canaanite culture from the bottom to the top. So this is not the story
that we have in the Bible. In the Bible, the story is that you have a massive movement of
Egyptian slaves from Egypt to Canaan. They were 40 years wandering in the Sinai and so forth,
and then a violent conquest of Canaan by Joshua and his armies, and you wipe out the Canaanites,
and then the Israelites settle in there where the Canaanites had lived. That's not what archaeology
shows us really happened. Peaceful, kind of unspectacular local phenomenon. So all of a sudden
you have the question, well, these are local Canaanites. What's this whole thing about
slavery in Egypt and liberation from Egypt and defeating the Egyptians and then defeating the
Canaanites and the violent conquest of the land? How do you account for all that?
A lot of biblical scholars just say, well, it's all fiction. Okay, we can't account for it because
it didn't happen. What I argue instead is that, well, there are things that happen that give rise
to this kind of cultural memory of the rise of Israel as a release, as a liberation from
Egyptian slavery, but it wasn't necessarily a liberation from Egypt on the part of hundreds
of thousands of slaves and so forth. What happened, and I mentioned this a minute ago,
the rise of Israel correlates with the decline and fall of the Egyptian Empire.
Not because of the Israelites, though.
Not because of the Israelites, no. So what we, and the key ingredient to understand here
is that the Egyptians had been ruling this powerful empire and the region of Canaan
was part of the empire for, you know, four or five hundred years from about 1500 to about
1100 BCE. So this is the most glorious period of Egyptian history. The big statues of Ramses,
the Second, and all these great New Kingdom pharaohs, they fill all of the museums in the world.
So that it was a very wealthy, powerful time for Egypt. It was a world power,
and Canaan was its northern province. So this is the region that Israel arose in,
okay, but Israel arose at the time that the Egyptian Empire was collapsing.
Now, what I want to stress is two points. One, when Egypt was ruling over the land of Canaan,
it it exacted a lot of tribute from Canaan, and this tribute included slaves. So there actually
were a lot of Canaanite slaves that were taken down into Egypt. Okay, they weren't Hebrew slaves,
as such. They were just Canaanites, but a lot of them were taken down in Egypt. Whenever a new
pharaoh came to the throne, he would go to the northern province and have some wars there and
take captives, and this would assert his authority during his reign over this foreign territory so
that they wouldn't rebel. So whenever a new king would come, you'd get more Canaanite slaves taken
down into Egypt. These were prisoners of war and stuff, but they would take them down and they would
work for the pharaoh and for the temples in Egypt and so forth. There also was a large slave trade
during this period where people would sometimes, because if you were a Canaanite and you were
bankrupt or you owed a lot of money, you could sell family members into slavery, and this is a
horrible thing, but something that people did. And so there was a slave trade where you could,
you know, because of debts or something, you could sell your children into slavery, you could
sell them to a middleman and they would take them down to Egypt. The story of Joseph gives us a
glimpse of this. There's these Midianite and Ishmaelite traders, they're going back and forth between
Canaanite and Egypt, and Joseph's brothers, first they want to kill them, they throw them into a pit
and they say, let's kill them, and one of the brothers says, eh, that's not kill them, let's just
sell them into slavery. And so they sell them to these Midianite traders and the Midianite traders
take them down into Egypt and sell them to a buyer in Egypt. So this is actually something that happened
particularly during this imperial period, that people would sell Canaanites into slavery in Egypt.
So through these different mechanisms, there ended up being a lot of Canaanite slaves in Egypt.
Okay, so this is one of the important things. Now what happened to these Canaanite slaves in
Egypt when the Egyptian Empire collapsed? Many of them simply stayed and became Egyptians.
Some of them, and we don't have a lot of evidence of this, but there's some indications that
some of them went back home to Canaan. So at the end of the Egyptian Empire, you probably had
some Canaanite slaves returning home to Egypt. When you say some, you just mean some, like
the biblical narrative really puts some numbers on this. You don't have 600,000
men plus women and children. If you were to make a guess, and I mean completely
guess because that's all it is, what would you put on a number? We have one text that says that I
think two Canaanite slaves escaped from Egypt. And they went past the guard post at the Nile Delta
and they managed to slip past. And we have a letter from someone who the guards are reporting
that these two Canaanite slaves slipped past the gate. And what should we do? And the guy says,
go after them. And then we don't have any reply after that. Oh man. So we have proof that two of
them, we don't know whether they made it out. But you know, I would guess hundreds, maybe thousands.
Because if the economy collapses, what do you do? You're working for these temples,
you're working for the royal imperial institutions. And if they collapse and you can't eat,
you're either going to go find another job locally or you're going to go back home and survive on
your agricultural farm of your uncle. I don't want to take you off the path because you're on a
wonderful path. And I definitely want to learn the factual evidence basing that on the cultural
memory. But I kind of want to jab occasionally just to throw curveballs in there to have you
address something. There are people who are watching this right now, as we speak, who say,
dude, duh, the Israelites were Hyksos pharaohs. They were the Hyksos Egyptians that,
what, can we somehow address that throughout this in a way? So before the, so I'm addressing the
period when Israel arose. And this is the period of the Egyptian empire. And particularly the
period of the collapse of the Egyptian empire. Now, before that period, a couple hundred years
before that, there was a dynasty of Egyptian kings of Egyptian pharaohs that have Canaanite names.
And these historians call the Hyksos. So this is a dynasty of pharaohs. They were overthrown
by the people who were some of the founders of the Egyptian empire. And so this is a change of
dynasty. These, there's I think some indication that when they were overthrown, some of them went
back to Canaan. Okay. But there probably weren't very many of them. And anyway, that's 500 years
before the Exodus happened in biblical memory. Okay. So, so one of the points that the Hyksos brings
into play is that for a long time, there had been Canaanite communities in Egypt. Okay. And
the Hyksos dynasty probably comes from a local Canaanite group that was living in Egypt. So Egypt
was a big, you know, Egypt was, was superpower at the time. And so people would have moved from Canaan.
It's like moving to New York City or moving to Los Angeles or moving to London. You go where the
business is. You go where the, where the big economy is. So there were small, there were Canaanite
communities in Egypt out of which these Hyksos came. But then the Hyksos were overthrown and
nothing much happened after that. But that's five, 600 years before the rise of Israel. And again,
I'm going back to this archeological stuff, this picture of how early Israel arose. So the Hyksos
period, I don't think really contributes much to this historical memory. Now, maybe,
you know, people say maybe the memory of Joseph as a kind of vizier to Pharaoh might,
might hearken back to this Hyksos period when you actually had Canaanite pharaohs.
But even there, the, in the New Kingdom period, in the Egyptian Empire, you actually had Canaanites
who did rise to high positions and were viziers in Egypt. We have several people who were very
high people in the pharaonic hierarchy who were Canaanites during the imperial period. So I think
that's probably more what's reflected in Joseph because Joseph is not Pharaoh. He's just a high
ranking official in the royal hierarchy who is a Canaanite. And we have many examples of those,
or at least, you know, six, a half a dozen examples of those. And that right there would be cultural
memory as well, right? The Joseph's theory. But again, I think it's cultural memory. It's more
likely to be cultural memory of the imperial period, which is the period just before Israel
arose than this Hyksos thing, which is much farther back and is actual pharaohs who are Canaanite.
Now, let me say that in later Egyptian cultural memory, they did conflate the Hyksos period
with what they had learned about the Exodus from the Bible. This is much later in Egyptian history
after the Bible had been translated into Greek, which was the language of Hellenistic Egypt.
Later Egyptian history actually does conflate the Hyksos story with the Exodus story.
Is this why Josephus gets this mixed up? Exactly where Josephus gets this stuff.
Wow. So the Hyksos stuff does in the history of the cultural memory of the Exodus, the Hyksos stuff
does get folded in because the Egyptians remembered the Hyksos and they were bad guys,
total bad guys. So they conflate those Hyksos bad guys with the story of the Exodus where Moses is
a bad guy. I think Manito does the same thing with Moses connecting him to an evil Hyksos, right?
Exactly. So Manito and Josephus, these are Hellenistic historians drawing on biblical
traditions and old Egyptian traditions. Thank you for answering that though. I'm sorry I took
you off the path first. You know these things and they factor in and they're part of the bigger picture.
So back to history, okay? So there were Canaanite slaves in Egypt. There's no question about that.
And it's very likely that when the Egyptian empire collapsed, some of them returned to Israel.
But these weren't 600,000 men plus women and children. These were slaves emigrating back home
after the economy collapses. And some of them probably, some of them may well have become members
of this new rural community in the highlands that called itself Israel, okay? So there is a connection
with Canaanite slaves who were actually in Egypt and may have escaped from Egypt. Now they escaped
because the soldiers weren't guarding the gates anymore because they had lost their jobs because
they weren't being paid anymore. Now the other bigger picture I think is that every Canaanite who
was in Canaan, who never went to Egypt, was a subject of the Egyptian empire for four or five
hundred years, okay? And according to the ideology of the Egyptian empire, they were all slaves of
Egypt. So everybody living in Canaan, which includes all of the people who became early Israelites,
they all had a memory, an actual historical memory, of being politically slaves of Egypt.
Because when they came, they picked up slaves. When they came, they looked at them like,
all right, where's my chattel? Where's my slavery, my workforce? Give me my workforce. Is that the
kind of mindset that they had? Well, it's that and other things. So when the Egyptians were there,
they used local Canaanites as their workforce. So they used them for slave labor. And we have
documents about that. We have these documents called the Amarna letters. And these are letters from
local Canaanite rulers during the period of the Canaanite Empire. It's a correspondence from
local Canaanite rulers with the Pharaoh. And so we have the correspondence between Pharaoh and these
local guys. And these local kings are saying, in one of them, he says, I provided a workforce from
my people to work on these pharaonic lands in, let's say, the Jezreel Valley. And so this is
historical proof that local Canaanites in Canaan were slaves of Egypt in Canaan, because Egypt
was the ruler. Now, even more than that, we find in these Amarna letters that the Canaanite kings
also say, I am your slave, O Pharaoh. So the language of empire, and this is something I stress,
the language of empire defines all of the people in Canaan, including the kings, as slaves of Pharaoh.
And they literally legally are slaves of Pharaoh. Pharaoh owns them. Pharaoh owns the lands of Canaan,
and he can work whatever fields, you know, whatever fertile fields he wants, he just claims.
And the people there are legally his slaves. He can do whatever he wants with them, including
the king. So everybody in Canaan, from the king down to the lowest peasant, were slaves of Pharaoh
in an ideological and political sense. You know, even if they weren't working the lands,
they were his slaves. And as such, they had to pay the taxes, you know, every year you have to pay
a certain amount of your crops and so forth, precious metals. Sometimes the Pharaoh would,
would, the annual taxation included people included, you know, you have to send slaves
down to Egypt from the local population. So everybody in their subjective sense of who they were
saw themselves as slaves to Egypt. So this is what I would say is the cultural memory of the
Egyptian house of bondage that's remembered in the Exodus. Okay, you don't have to be in Egypt
to be in Egyptian slavery. Everybody in Canaan was in Egyptian slavery for, you know, 400 or more
years. So what happens when the Egyptian Empire collapses? All of a sudden, you're not a slave
to Egypt anymore. You're so and so living in the villages of Canaan, you were a slave of Egypt,
and now you're not. Well, that's a great miracle. Okay, and some of those people move into the Highland
areas and start this new community. In their community, their founding story is that we were
all slaves to Egypt. God saved us. God defeated Egypt. Because out of Egypt, what doesn't necessarily
mean we were in Egypt, but Egypt itself, we are no longer in that. So it's in a sense, it's an
Exodus from Egypt, but it's because the Egyptians are the ones that withdrew from Canaan. But we're
not an Egypt anymore, but used to be greater Egypt. So and we're not slaves to Pharaoh anymore. So we
can serve Yahweh as our Lord instead of serving Pharaoh as our Lord and Master. So does this play
into the conquest? I'm sure I'm skipping ahead, aren't I? Yeah, well, the conquest, you know,
that's a difficult question. First of all, you have God Yahweh conquers Pharaoh. So this is the
first step of the conquest. God defeats Pharaoh and Pharaoh's armies. And you have this happening at
the Red Sea. And this separates Egypt from Canaan. I mean, they have to wander for 40 years, but the
Red Sea is the place of separation. So you are liberated from Egypt when you go across there,
and it's because God defeated Pharaoh. Now, in a sense, for the early Israelites,
they did have a kind of separation from their previous lives. Okay, but their previous lives
may have been in the Canaanite lowlands or something like that, and they moved to the highlands. So
there's a kind of journey there. But they remember it as being separated from Egypt as a liberation
in Exodus from Egypt. So you can see how this geographical picture of escaping from Egyptian
slavery being remembered as actually being slaves in Egypt. And God liberates you from there and
defeats Pharaoh. You get to go back into Canaan and be free, independent people serving Yahweh
instead of Pharaoh. You can sort of see how that would work for these people. Okay, Egypt was
all over the place. Egyptian culture, Egyptian power. There were huge Egyptian garrisons,
military garrisons in Canaan. There were Egyptian tax collectors and so forth. So you saw the
Egyptians all over the place. You were just in greater Egypt, not in Egypt, probably. Now,
when we factor in that there were probably some actual escaped slaves who physically did come
from Egypt. They bring a memory of an actual journey and an actual passage. And you somehow
have to kind of shake that up with what the local people are remembering. And there you get a lot
of the ingredients of the story of the Exodus. It's kind of like saying, imagine if for whatever
reason when everything happened in the America slavery, and Africans are coming from Africa,
imagine if no more slaves and a lot of them came back home, so to speak, not millions, but
a thousand or a couple hundred or whatever, and they came back home. It's like that memory of
their story combined with the fact that we don't have Europeans over here and other people trying
to constantly take us and control us and tell us what to think and how to do and what to do.
All of that combined becomes this narrative. And here we have this narrative. Now, it's
obviously embellished and mythologized into a beautiful image. My question then would be,
is it possible that the conquest of Joshua into this narrative
is inner fighting between Canaanites? Or how would you reconcile the cultural memory of the
conquest of Joshua? And maybe this is a whole podcast of its own that we should do.
Yeah. Well, this is part of the story. And let me just say that the story of American slavery
is on the one hand kind of an analogy, but it's also very tied in with the Exodus story.
That is to say, for the black slaves, the Exodus story was a very powerful story for them and was
one of their ways of desiring liberation from slavery in a way of criticizing their white
masters by evoking the Exodus story. And, you know, things like Moses went to Egypt land,
let my people go. You know, when slaves sang that in, you know, antebellum south,
they were saying, masters, you guys, let us go. Yeah. I saw a nice video about Martin Luther King,
Jr. Yeah. And he used Exodus language all the time. So in the American, in the civil rights
movement, the African American civil rights movement, and in the period of black slavery,
the Exodus story was a very powerful vehicle for expressing what the desire for liberation
and explaining liberation itself after the fact, you know, the underground railroad for them,
that was like the Exodus, Harriet Tubman and stuff. So these are stories that in a sense create a way
of articulating the reality that you're in. And I argue that this happened not just for Americans,
but for the very early Israelites. So the story itself kind of crystallized their sense of who
they were and where they came from and what their values and orientations were, that the story itself
helped create them as a people. Okay. As simple as this to put it in very basic sense, this story,
this cultural memory story wasn't embellished 1000 years later, hundreds of years later. From the
start, this narrative had formed, crystallized at the beginning, and it was always memorized or
remembered this way throughout not only Israel's history, this had such an impact. You have Martin
Luther King, Jr. standing there saying, let my people go. This cultural memory may live on for
thousands and more years, and people will still re, re, I suspect utilize this in different contexts,
because that's what a story can do. It can mold, it can, it can form into any current context that
you're going through like me. This horrible job, my boss is a pain in the butt. Let my people go,
have to say, I'm like, you could use it almost in that's, it's more serious, of course, in its
original context and with Martin Luther King, Jr. and the slaves in America. But nonetheless,
people use this story to, to their own advantage. And that's your argument. It's from the get-go,
this was the story. The story, the instrumental power of the story helps to create a people.
Interesting. And your story created their sense of common identity, common goal, common
memory of traumatic history. And it, it, it, it, yeah, crystallized who they were as a people,
creating the glue that created early Israel itself. That's powerful. And I just want to
comment to say, you're not only talking about the Exodus and the situation, you're actually
giving a scholarly point of view of the existence of the origin of Israel as a nation.
That's a lot. There's a lot there that I could, I can imagine that creates. So what happened with
Joshua in this whole, I know we keep tapping into it, but how do you explain it? So this is,
this is another puzzle. And this is a puzzle again, that this, the story that I told earlier about
what archeologists tell us about early Israel makes the Joshua story very problematic.
But early Israel was an indigenous peaceful movement of people into a kind of new frontier
where mostly people hadn't been living before. Then that means the story of Joshua in the
conquest also didn't happen historically. Right. So then the question is, how does that
cultural memory come into being? And that's a, and that's a tough one.
There's a couple of ways, there's a couple of things that I would say about that.
One of them is that one of the things that the story of the conquest does
is create a difference between the people of Israel and the other Canaanites who didn't become
Israel. Okay. So in a sense, the story of having a battle with the Canaanites and defeating them
and displacing them creates a strong boundary around the group of early Israelites saying,
we're not the same as them. Okay. That we had a war with them. We won the war. And so we're
different than them. We are our own people. And it's different being an Israelite is different
than being a Canaanite. Now historically, we're saying that they weren't that different from
the Canaanites. They were Canaanites and that they're creating a new identity that in the sense
they're inventing these cultural boundaries between the Israelites and the Canaanites.
By saying they came from outside and they conquered the Canaanites is a way of drawing
boundaries and saying, no, we're not Canaanites at all. We defeated them. Now let me give another
analogy that I think helps again with early America. So when when I grew up, they taught us
that the British were the bad guys. Okay, we fought against the bad though they were red
coats and they shot people and conquered and in Boston and stuff. And the good Americans were
fighting back against them with guerrilla tactics. And because of George Washington and other things,
we won. We defeated the bad guy, British, and they left. And so it's kind of a David and Goliath
thing. But we were the right, we were the good guys, they were the bad guys, they left. Well,
at a certain point, I learned that all the earlier colonists for those in those 12 colonies,
the 13 colonies, I keep confusing it with the 12 of Israel, that is the biblical roots here.
All those colonists were British, culturally. They were Brits. They, you know, most of them
thought that the King George was divinely chosen and they were culturally British. I mean, the big
thing they threw these this tea into Boston Harbor, who drinks tea? They were all English.
That's why they drank tea so much. So culturally, historically, they're English.
What they're doing in these, what these stories do is all of a sudden say, all of a sudden say,
no, we're not English. We're Americans. They're inventing a new identity. And in order to invent
a new identity, you have to cast off your own old identity and say that that old identity belongs
to other people who are the bad guys. I think this also explains, I love this analogy. This is so
evident in the way you just described this. And so then we create things even in our laws that
separate us from them. And so like the fact that they're not to eat pig, or they particularly
have certain laws, I guess to ask in that vein, I don't want to get lost in it, because I know
we're into the Joshua and what's going on. But since they've created a bubble of their own people,
now we have clear evidence that like Canaanites ate pigs and things like this that were obvious,
is there any evidence in the archaeology here signifying that like you get where I'm going
with this? It actually goes a slightly different way. Exactly the Philistines that ate pork.
The Philistines who came from the Greek area, from the Aegean, they ate pork and they loved pork.
The Canaanites didn't eat pork. And so the Israelites didn't eat pork either because
they were just not accustomed to raising it. I mean, maybe pig growing pigs has more of a
financial investment or something like that. I'm not a farmer, so I don't know.
But Canaanites didn't eat pigs either. So the idea that the Israelites don't eat pigs
is a continuity with their Canaanite heritage. What the focusing on eating or not eating pigs
shows up in the archaeological evidence, when you look at Israelite and other Canaanite sites,
versus the Philistines. That's a boundary that gets drawn between the Israelites and the Philistines.
And once Israel gets established as a people, that's exactly the same time that the Philistines
are settling on the Canaanite coast and you start getting military conflicts between
this new nation of Israel and the Philistines, which is what we see in the stories of Saul and
David and and Samson and so forth. So it's that cultural boundary that's starting to be formed
between the Israelites and the Philistines, where you get these food laws starting to crystallize
and becoming very important culturally. Is there any evidence in the law or the law codes? Because
it's, you know, there's various sources here. That's one thing I love about actual scholarship,
but not fundamentalism is we have multiple sources playing a role here. But is there any
evidence that signifies in the historical record of like Canaanite's practice this, but when the
nation of Israel becomes a nation, they purposely do something different? I mean, obviously the
borrowing the God Yah, Yahweh, if you will, there's this adaptation of many things Canaanite,
which is one of the reasons we also would say, look, we have a good reason these come from Canaan.
But is there any evidence to say, hey, we're establishing something new and
this is a new law that separates us from our own kin? Yeah, that's harder to find.
At some point, the idea of monotheism becomes a big dividing line. I think it's a fairly early
point. Because the whole idea, and it's built into the Exodus story, that because Yahweh
delivered Israel from Egypt, therefore you shall have no other gods beside me because I'm the one
who has protected you. So monotheism, or at least this idea of exclusive loyalty to one God,
is part of this Exodus pattern, part of this Exodus story. Yahweh brought you out of the
land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, therefore you shall have no other gods beside
me. This is where the Ten Commandments begins. So it might be, and I'm sort of speculating here,
but it might be that monotheism, or at least this exclusive loyalty to one God,
is one of the traits that started to make Israel actually different from its Canaanite
neighbors. So that would be kind of, if it's not monotheism, it'd be a Hino-theism kind of, but
yeah, a Hino-theism. It's also called monolatry, meaning the serving of one God. So this seems
to be one of the boundaries, and certainly it's one of the boundaries that the biblical text sees
as distinguishing Israel from the other nations. Do you think there was an influence from Akhenaten
ideas of a Hino-theistic? I say that because there's a lot of online people who have these,
oh, I know the Israelites are Hexos, or they always have an idea. The original monotheist
was Akhenaten, and they think there's some correlation there. Well, I think it's fair to
say that the original monotheist was Akhenaten, whether Akhenaten, in Egyptology, they call
Akhenaten's heresy, because it was declared heretical by all the Egyptians after the reign of Akhenaten,
whether that affected the religion of Israel a few hundred years later in various different
circumstances. I'm not sure I see a mechanism for that. No genetic connection, but it is
interesting. If it's a heresy in Egypt, it's like, you know what, we're going to show those
Egyptians, we're going to adopt this heresy, and I'll just tease it. No, this was Freud's theory,
and he picked that up from some Egyptologists who had convinced that theory. I just don't see how you
can connect the dots, really. I think it's perfectly fine for it to be an indigenous movement,
but I think there is a broader background of ideas of gods becoming more transcendent.
Is something that we see in this period, in this period more generally, including Akhenaten,
including early Israel. Professor Hendo. There are some wider intellectual streams that might
connect those ideas. If I may, I would like to see, if you don't mind, what are your criticisms?
What's your book does this? Anybody who's watching, you got to go see, not only read his books, but
the five views on Exodus. You're going to see the contention here, but can you give us a quick,
well, however long it might take you. I'm just saying address James Hofmeier, Professor Hofmeier's
view specifically, because we currently have a couple people who are in the YouTube world
that are using his work, or they fall in line with Hofmeier's thesis on the Exodus.
What are your major, I guess if I put my hand up, five fingers, problems with his position?
Yeah, that's a fair question. So Hofmeier is a real scholar. He's a real archaeologist,
and so he knows what he's talking about. My criticism would be his general methodology.
So what he does, and he picked this up from previous, so he's an eminent evangelical scholar,
Protestant evangelical, and he picks up his methodology from, I think, one of his teachers,
who was Kenneth Kitchen, who was a British evangelical scholar, and Kitchen, I think,
picked it up from other people. What they tend to do is, first, they start with the presumption
that the Bible is inerrant. So that's a starting point. It's certainly not the starting point
that I start with, or that other scholars in universities, research universities, or liberal
arts colleges, start with, but it's where evangelicals start. So already, you know that the
inquiry is going to be shaped around the concept of biblical inerrancy. So how do you
demonstrate the truth of biblical inerrancy? Well, what Hofmeier does, and what Kitchen does,
and other evangelical scholars do, is they pick and choose historical details, details of historical
realia from texts or from archaeological evidence, that in some ways illustrates the idea that the
Bible is inerrant. So, for example, if the Bible says that the Israelites built Pitham and Ramses,
okay, when they were slaves in Egypt, so people like Hofmeier and Kitchen will say, oh, well,
look, here's evidence that the city of Ramses really existed, and it existed this particular
time period, and therefore the story is true. In other words, it's like going, I mean, in my
critique, I would say that's the same argument as saying that, you know, a Shakespeare play about
Julius Caesar that has a historically accurate detail about ancient Rome, let's say, you know,
they wore togas. The fact that they're wearing togas in this play doesn't mean that the play
is historically accurate in all of its details. It's only historically accurate in some of its
props. You see what I mean? Right. So, they're pointing to different details that are like props
in a theater production, and they're saying, yeah, let's look at this prop, you know, the city of
Ramses really existed and existed at the right period, so therefore everything else is true.
That's a hilarious argument. I could tell you lots of stories that are totally not true,
but throw in some props that look real or that are real. So, what Kitchen and
Hofmeyer don't do is look at the details that aren't historical. You know, they leave all that out
because they're incapable of looking at those details because of their commitment to the
Bible being inerrant. I think you said that really. This is what they do, and so you can fill
a book with little details about, you know, where the city of Ramses was and what might have been,
and what the name, the name of Pitham is actually an Egyptian word, per autumn, you know, and you
can do all this sort of stuff, which shows that the background detail or some of the background
details in the story are historically accurate and may even events, historical memories that come
from that period. That makes me wonder just the loan word question, if you will. How do you address
that? Are there biblical loan words? And some people will go, that's clearly a sign. I mean,
they're being conquered and ruled by Egypt, so I could see the language being necessary to know
in order to cord, you know, but I got to talk to you, man, you know, so you got to know something
from Egypt. So this is something that Kitchen and Hoffmeyer do all the time too. They'll say, well,
look, this word for linen is an Egyptian word. Well, yes, that's absolutely true. Egypt was,
as I said, a major superpower and economic power. You know, to this day, we talk about
really nice sheets being made of Egyptian cotton. Okay, they're expensive. And so linen in the
ancient world, I don't know much about it, but maybe the good stuff came from Egypt, and it's an
Egyptian word. But that means nothing about any particular story or episode in which Egyptian
linen is mentioned. Similarly, you know, a lot of words in ancient, in Hebrew, the words for
ink and pen are Egyptian loan words. Well, that's interesting. And this arguably
stems from the period of the Egyptian Empire in Canaan. Every bureaucracy operates by
paperwork. And the same was happening in the Egyptian Empire, where you had Egyptian scribes
using papyrus and pens and inks and so forth. And so it's kind of natural that the Egyptian words
for those things would have been borrowed into Hebrew at the time and became the standard words
for pen and ink. Interesting. So you can infer certain historical processes behind some loan words
and things. You know, if loan words are borrowed in a certain domain and not in other domains,
you can sort of say, oh, well, you know, there's connection there. But none of that has anything
to do with whether the Exodus story in the Bible is inerrant. I love this. I want to poke. It's
a non sequitur kind of argument that these people use. What do you say to someone who says, well,
Potiphar is an Egyptian name. And the way that the narrative plays it, he has a wife, they have a
slave in the house, and it plays out almost like what would really happen in ancient Egypt.
Like they know too much. How do you address that? Yeah, well, if you're talking about a guy who's
in Egypt in your story, you want to have a word for the master of the house that sounds Egyptian.
You do that today. You know, they'll say in a movie, you've got some, you know, German guy,
a foreigner. Well, what you do in movies is you have him speak with an English accent.
And that's how you know he's a foreigner. You know, you have devices to communicate that this is a
foreigner. And so in the story, you have the Egyptian master. And so you give him an Egyptian name.
It's or in a name that sounds Egyptian, doesn't even have to be a real Egyptian name. It just has
to sound Egyptian. So if you have, you know, a Russian spy, you name him Boris. Okay, Boris and
Natasha. It doesn't mean that I'm the story of Boris and Natasha originated in Russia,
or the Soviet Union, it just means that you know some Russian names that you give the characters
in your story. So it's, it's, it's a meaningless inference. I mean, to say that it's an Egyptian
name means nothing as, as in, in respect to the historicity of the events. Right. You and I can
think of names like that ourselves. I just thought of Boris and Natasha. And I know nothing about
me about Russian spy craft. Yeah, or Juan and Lopez, you know, or something from down in the,
you know, some Spanish, right? You're an ancient Israelite, and you don't know any Egyptian names,
then you're sort of an idiot. Interesting. It sounds to me there's tension there, though.
Professor Hofmeier, is it because do you think that his presupposition of this inerrancy has
caused him to view you in a certain respect for that? I mean, anyone who, well, I mean,
you can tell me within that community, if you critique people who are using inerrancy as
biblical inerrancy as part of their methodology, you're going to say, well, you're the devil's
spawn or something like that. Part of the discourse. So he's going to make me, I mean,
I don't know why he doesn't like me personally, but he's angry when I say things like that.
Well, I respect that you say that, actually. I'm glad that you're just laying out the truth. And
this has been a wonderful conversation about the Exodus and Joshua in particular.
I guess. Let me just add one thing about I have some very good friends who are evangelical scholars
and respect each other's boundaries. And I tell them, you know, what you do is really hard because
you have so many tripwires as an evangelical scholar. You say one wrong thing and you're fired.
Whereas I can say all sorts of stupid things and they don't fire me. So it's hard to be an
evangelical scholar and they have, you know, things that they cannot say or else they lose
their jobs. So, you know, when I'm, when he, when he has to say I'm a bad guy because I critique
the idea of biblical inerrancy being part of his methodology, he has to say that or else he loses
job. So I don't take it personally that, you know, he's a bad guy for doing that. He has to do that.
Oh, wow. Yeah, that's kind of, well, let me ask you this. In the vein of our previous lecture
you gave, you brought up a stilly or stilly that Israel's name was on this. And it talks about
these people I've destroyed, these people are no more the seed of Israel is not. Okay.
Do you think it's possible? Because this is around somewhat around this time frame.
Do you think that the Egyptian abuse on the Canaanite regions may be the narrative picked up
and taken and said, oh, we were the ones who conquered these regions in their mythology
for the Joshua conquest. Do you think that that conquest could fit that in some historical
verisimilitude even though it wasn't historical they're saying we conquered actually not them?
I would put that so this is called the Merneptis stilly. It dates to about 1207 BCE.
And it's a wonderful document from one of the last it's from Merneptis who was the successor
of Ramses II. So this is the period when the Egyptian empire is declining that Merneptis
still strong enough to go into Canaan and to whack a bunch of local people who are presumably
rebelling against Egypt sensing weakness. You know, this is part of the I would say grievances
that the early Israelites would have against the Egyptians. This is part of the Egyptian oppression
that Egypt came in and whacked us when we were just this little tribal peoples in the hill country.
This flows into the narrative of Egypt being an oppressor and, you know, in a slave master who is
now attacking and killing the slaves. So I would put it back, I would put it back into this story
of this as an exemplar of Egyptian oppression and why we remember the powerful hand of Pharaoh
and are so happy that Yahweh had finally defeated them. So I would put it into that storyline.
I don't think you'd put it into the story of the Israelite conquest because this is being
conquered, not being a conqueror yourself. I just was wondering, where do you think they
picked up the conquest motif, you know? Well, the conquest motif, I would say, comes from a couple
of different angles. One of them is when Yahweh conquers Egypt and the story develops such that
Israel is physically moving into Canaan that Yahweh keeps conquering people so that the Israelites
can settle in their country. And this is one of the earlier versions of the story. Now in the book
of Joshua, it's Joshua and the armies that are going in there, but in an earlier layer that we
already see in Exodus 15, the song of the sea, where Yahweh defeats Egypt, it says Yahweh is going
to defeat the Canaanites, that they're, you know, they're stumped, they're shocked, they're silenced
in awe at Yahweh's conquest. And this continues in other parts of the story where Yahweh simply
stuns them into submission. In some versions, he sends a hornet ahead of him to defeat the Canaanites.
In others, Yahweh goes himself. There's a wonderful version in the book of Amos,
where Yahweh goes and defeats Amos chapter two, where Yahweh goes and defeats the Amorites himself
right after the Exodus. The Israelites aren't doing any of the job, it's Yahweh is doing the
defeating himself. So this might be an earlier version of the story where it's just Yahweh defeats
the Canaanites as a sequel to his defeat of Pharaoh.
Sorry for interrupting you, I don't mean to. I think there's just a slight delay. So when I
actually start and you're already, it's like, so this seems like the documentary hypothesis could
play a really good role. And I'm saying that to say overall, there's multiple sources. And this
might be the Joshua and the Exodus might be a conflation of the same narrative, so to speak,
but the redactors might be actually trying to make it sound like, oh, well, this is a later story
after, after they get here, now they're conquering. It's really the same, potentially the same story.
It's very much the same story in these earlier phases of the story. In Exodus 15, you see that
the Israelites are going across and Yahweh is defeating the Canaanites and Yahweh is planting
them on his holy mountain, which is arguably Jerusalem. So they're already conflated in the
very earliest version of the story that we have. But your point is a good one, that there are
different layers of the story and they take on different forms and different configurations.
And I would say the one where the Israelite armies are the ones fighting is one of the later layers.
Dr. Hendo, I cannot tell you how fascinating this has been. I, please, please, everybody,
get his book, go down in the description, get his books. I have to have you back. This has been a
serious pleasure because I can't think of a single thing you said that I personally
don't agree with. Like this was, and I don't try to find people that I agree with completely. It's
like I want to learn. And I say that to say like I learned so much today from you, but it fits so
many of the pieces that I've been trying to figure out like how do you make sense of this?
And it just makes more sense in the real world, especially with contemporary examples. And I
said contemporary like past 300 years, examples that we can look at and go, huh, I mean, yeah,
we have a nation established and coming from the very people they're claiming to no longer be.
Why would Israelites say they're not Canaanites? Well, they're establishing a new nation, a new
people. And I can't tell you how excited this makes me, but I hope that everybody goes down
there and does this. And thank you for joining me today. My pleasure. And I really appreciate
your enthusiasm about this stuff. And let me say, you know, as a historian, historian of religion,
as a scholar of the Bible, these are historical and explanatory models that I'm constructing here.
And it's not like I have some sort of insight into the absolute truth or what actually happened.
You know, in certain things I could say could be overstatements or could be wrong. And sometimes
I'm extrapolating from the data. So, you know, this is just what scholars do. And, you know,
we try to make better explanatory models, but I don't want people to think that
just because I say it or you're enthusiastic about it, it's necessarily true. You always have to
reject these things to the criticism and improve them or destroy them and so forth.
This makes me, I'm sorry, I have another question because you make me have to. I don't know why.
It must be some secret power at work here. No, I'm just teasing. I must ask you, where do you
you, how does Dr. Hofmeier and the others look at Israel as a people? Do they believe that
they were Canaanites initially? How do they explain? Well, no, they say they were, you know,
there was Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and then they went down into Egypt and then they were,
they were Hebrews and they came so that they weren't Canaanites. They were from the Ur of
Chaldees, so to speak, technically. You know, if you look at the genealogies in Genesis 10 and so
forth, the Canaanites are a different branch than the Israelites who are descended from Eber
and so forth. So they would say they're totally unconnected to the Canaanites. So they would
have to say that all the things that archaeologists tell us is wrong. That's what I thought. It's
hard to do. Oh, I'm sure I'll get a hundred more questions in my head and I can't do that to you.
That's just not fair to you. I really do appreciate you. Let's get you to come back
and let's talk about the dating. I really want to hear what you have to say because we've had
quite a few minimalists come on the channel and say, look, this dates to the Hellenistic period.
I love when there's some contention there at least in the sense that you're going to say,
no, we're going to flip that on its head. I'm going to show you why we need to think older.
And I know that you think older because I've actually watched your lecture on this some.
I'm interested, though, in probing into it and seeing how you might answer these questions.
So I appreciate it. It gets technical pretty quickly. So I'm just warning you there.
I'm sure that's going to be way over my head compared to the Exodus discussion because I'm
not in I don't know linguistics and that plays a huge role in understanding this. But I will do
my best to try and keep up with you. I'd be happy to. Thank you so much. Everybody go down in the
description, check out his books, like the video, share this content with someone, you know, who is
interested in this topic, even if they don't agree. I'm interested to hear what they have to say.
And don't ever forget because sometimes we forget who we are, right? We are Mephysian.
