Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
Thanks for tuning in live here.
If you're watching this later, trust me,
you're gonna enjoy this.
Do you wanna hear about the floods
that come way before Noah?
Yes, this is controversial
to some literalist fundamentalist,
but to the academic world, this is kind of old news.
And so I have two academics with us.
One has a master's degree
and the other one is a PhD,
but go ahead and introduce yourself.
So that's all I know
and I don't wanna mess anything up there.
Dr. Joshua Bowen and Megan Lewis, welcome back.
How are you?
Thank you for having us, Derek.
It's nice to see you.
So I'm Megan for those who don't know me.
I am podcaster and YouTuber
and also an asyriologist,
which is what I'm doing here today.
I have an undergraduate degree in ancient history.
I have two master's degrees in ancient Near Eastern studies
from the University of Birmingham in the UK
and the Johns Hopkins University.
And for the past five years,
I have been running the digital hammer,
I'll be YouTube channel and podcast
to try and bring knowledge about the ancient world
to people who made different choices
and decided not to spend a decade in grad school
because they had common sense.
Let's put it that way.
So yeah, that's what I do.
Josh, right?
I mean, she left off this small detail
about how she's the host of the Bart Ehrman
Miscordian Jesus podcast.
I am that.
That little detail.
She always forgets that one.
It's just a little detail, right?
Of course.
No, that's fantastic.
And you're running a great program over there.
In fact, coming across to you and Dr. Josh
a couple of years back
made me also wanna be more serious about scholarship
and about quality work.
Cutting edge, quality academia
and bringing that to the public.
I hope people watching this
will subscribe to Digital Hammurabi.
We'll go to the website digitalhammurabi.com
where you can pick up their book or books.
They're plural.
They're our stuff.
Right?
You have merchandise as well
that I know people are gonna wanna check out
and they'll enjoy that and stuff.
But the latest greatest,
and we're gonna cover this in depth today
is learn to read ancient Sumerian
and introduction for complete beginners volume two.
And so we're gonna dive into this.
But before we get into that, we gotta tease people.
We gotta give them a reason
why would you wanna learn Sumerian?
And maybe we should start somewhere further back.
Do you have anywhere you'd like to begin?
Yeah.
So for me personally,
one of the things that first really got my attention
about Mesopotamia was having
a history lecture in my undergraduate degree
with a professor called Alistair Livingston
who was a fantastic asyriologist.
And he, it was a very entertaining speaker.
But one of the things he covered in our first lecture
was the fact that there is this flood narrative
that predates the Bible by a long way.
And that was really, really interesting to me.
I'd been raised Christian.
I was very familiar obviously with Noah and the flood.
And I was like, whoa.
And my like 19 year old brain said,
that means the flood must have happened.
And I'm glad to say my thinking
has evolved a little bit since I was 19,
but that really kind of grabbed me.
And then when you get a little further
into asyriology as a field
and you find out some of the reasons
behind why other people get into asyriology,
it kind of starts to like click into place
and asyriology started essentially
because people wanted to understand the Hebrew Bible better.
There were people going out and excavating
in Mesopotamia, modern Iraq,
and finding all of these things
that were like kind of similar to the Bible
and looked really interesting.
And obviously it's the area where the Neo Assyrians ruled.
So you've got that connection.
They were like, oh, this is fascinating.
And then there's Abraham who is like said to be from or
there's a city in Sumer called Or.
People are like, oh, this is so cool.
This is proving the Bible right.
This is amazing.
And then there was a British Museum excavation.
And I have the date if I can find it in.
No, that's the wrong page.
I don't want to put it,
but I'm guessing why you're looking 18 something,
but go ahead.
No, I can't find the exact one,
but yes, 18th century.
No, like 19th century.
I was thinking 1800s.
Which 1800s to 19th century as a professional historian
still trips me up all the time.
But there was an excavation run by the British Museum
in Mesopotamia,
and they brought back a load of Cuneiform,
which is the beautiful stuff behind our lovely faces,
the writing of Mesopotamia.
And one of the tablets they brought back
was a fragment, like half a tablet
of what they translated to be a flood narrative,
clearly predating the Bible.
And everyone got really, really excited.
And this amateur asyriologist called George Smith
ended up getting funding,
taking another expedition back.
Specifically, like his funding was given to him
so he could go and find the other half of this tablet.
And for anyone with any kind of archeological experience,
any understanding in how archeology works,
that is genuinely like trying to find a needle
in a haystack of like the size of a football field.
And he did it.
He found the other half of the tablet.
He brought it back to London
and kind of really kicked off this,
not quite Mesopotamian mania,
but the really strong interest in Mesopotamia,
both as something connected to the Bible,
but also as a field of study in its own right.
So yeah, you learn all of that and you're like, oh, okay.
So this is interesting.
People started getting into it
because of its biblical connection.
But actually the cultures and the languages
are just fascinating in their own right.
But having said all of that,
I think it's really, really important
if you're going to be looking at the Hebrew Bible
that you try and have some kind of understanding
of the background that it was written in
and as syriology and Sumerian and Akkadian
is all really, really important
for getting that understanding.
That was a very long answer.
I kind of monologued for what, five minutes.
So Josh, you should do some monologues now.
I think the show's over.
Josh, great job.
Yeah, for real.
I don't know if I have anything to add,
so it was a great introduction.
Let me just tease people too.
Like I love what Megan says here
because I know that Josh also got into this.
And by the way, Josh, we haven't even brought,
I have so many interviews with you.
We haven't brought out
because we still have the courses,
all that stuff's coming,
but also your personal testimony
goes into what Megan's pointed out.
Like some people get into this.
Josh got into this as a fundamentalist
and was like, I'm gonna really go
and show God's words the truth.
And well, let's just say this,
it might be better to just remain ignorant
if you want to keep your mouth shut.
But you figured out like, hey, this is older.
And there was a huge controversy,
I think when this stuff first came out
as I was reading about it,
I heard the Bible babble controversy.
Things like this, where people were going,
no, no, no, they're not older than the Bible.
Like this was the resistance in the field for a while.
And then eventually we start to,
it's like evolution, right?
Like you start to go, oh, what are we doing?
We have to figure out a way to adopt these ideas
into our minds somehow.
So your book is Sumerian,
which is an extremely old language.
And I thought, yeah, the Bible borrow us from Sumerian.
And Megan, the other day was like,
it's a little more technical than that.
So what, can we go into this?
We absolutely can.
And please stop me if I can go too deep into textuality.
So the way that people and cultures use and reuse
and adapt literature is one of my favorite things
in the world.
So it's kind of something I will talk about
for a very long time.
But what you have with the Hebrew Bible is,
it's not plagiarism, really hate that word.
It's not plagiarism.
It's taking what was probably a common cultural idea,
something in the background of the cultures
in that whole region,
and taking it and reworking it
to do something very, very specific.
And...
Can I give an example?
There's a show called Brooklyn Nine-Nine,
which is one of our favorites.
And Ray Holt, the captain of the Nine-Nine,
is a very straight, laced, robotic sort of guy.
And he's sitting in a car.
I can't remember who he's sitting with,
but he makes a rhyme and he says, look at that.
I'm a poet, and didn't even realize
that I was rhyming those things.
Now, all of us, when he said, I'm a poet,
we just filled in the rest in our minds, right?
And didn't even know it, right?
Yeah.
And so when he started to say, and didn't even know,
this is how genre works, right?
We anticipate what's coming.
So when he changed it, at the end,
he was doing the writer, was doing something
very, very specific, because Ray Holt is somebody
that his character wouldn't actually know that saying, right?
And so it was, but that's the point.
That's not plagiarism, as Megan is pointing out.
That's not plagiarism.
What it's doing is it's bringing the audience with you
and tweaking what they hear, sometimes with really big tweaks,
right?
But it's bringing the audience along,
playing off of their anticipations based on the genre,
and then changing specific things
or twisting specific things.
And we'll talk about this quite a bit tonight,
but there's a lot that goes into this flood story.
And you wouldn't know, you wouldn't know the polemics
that are involved if you didn't have
the Sumerian and Acadian stories.
If you weren't familiar with the written texts already,
kind of in existence.
And you see a lot of general connections
that people can say, oh, well, it's just like human experience.
We all know about floods and we all know about boats.
Okay, fine.
But there are some very specific instances of borrowing,
especially if you look in the Gilgamesh section.
So the flood narrative exists in several different forms
in Mesopotamia.
And if you look at Gilgamesh, what tablet, 11,
that preserves one of the later flood narratives.
And it includes things like three birds
being sent out to find land and two failing
and then one succeeding and fantastic.
Congratulations, the flood is going down.
And you can maybe explain like a bird,
but three in...
And just so that if people are interested in this,
in volume two, I have a chapter,
did the Old Testament plagiarize
or something to that effect?
And we actually go through these flood examples.
It's a different book, isn't it?
Yeah.
It's not in the...
No, no, no, in the Atheist handbook, what did I say?
You just said volume two.
I'm so sorry.
Of the Atheist handbook to the Old Testament,
but I have a chapter on this intertextuality thing.
And as Megan's pointing out, it's not just like,
there definitely is like a parallelomania, right?
That like the golden bow and like,
we know about this in history.
And so you start to see connections everywhere.
And while there probably are in many of those cases,
you know, where the human brain likes to see patterns, right?
But when you start to see things like,
this Hebrew word only appears here
in this flood context,
in this specific part of the flood context,
but it's a very common word in a cadian
that shows up specifically in that flood context
in the same place.
Right.
You know, now you're having to,
the coincidences are starting to build up.
Yeah, I love that about your books
and how you break that down.
So I wanna just say, please check out their works,
get the book on how to learn Sumerian,
because I guarantee you it can come in handy
on understanding the kind of connections
we're seeing over time from these myths.
And who doesn't wanna know,
just being able to read these stories.
They're really, really vibrant.
The world's oldest written language.
So you've got bragging rights over anyone
who can read Latin or Greek, to be perfectly honest.
It's like, you can read Greek, fantastic.
Congratulations.
Did you know that's like ridiculously late
as far as history goes?
Yeah.
You're just very, very late to the party.
We're talking about old.
And so I guess to tease everybody,
because there's gonna be people
who are gonna come in and go,
no, the Bible did not borrow from.
Is there any linguistic stuff we can get into
that helps connect these myths or tells us these are older?
Or, I don't know, in some way,
you can draw some of those connections to the Bible.
Yeah.
I mean, the first one is just archeology, right?
I mean, and this is not something that is debated,
just so that it's clear.
It's not something that's debated in academic circles,
even evangelical academic circles,
like Lawson Younger and James Hoffmeyer
and Richard Averbeck.
Yeah, they're not gonna fight anybody to say,
no, no, the Hebrew Bible, the flood story there,
that's what the, that's what Atrahas has borrowed.
And they're not gonna say that.
So we, it's an interesting historical development
that we see.
Because we have, Sumerian becomes a written language
right at the end of the fourth millennium BCE.
And you start to see literature develop
at the beginning of the third millennium,
and then it starts to kick off a little bit more
in the early dynastic 3A period,
which is like the first half of the third millennium.
But then you sort of have this development
over the rest of that millennium,
and you start to get really,
what would become very, very popular literary texts,
like the Curse of Agaday,
and they develop throughout the third millennium.
What's interesting though,
and actually there's a book,
I pulled it off the shelf just to come up here,
Chen's book on the primeval flood catastrophe.
He's making the argument that,
and I think convincingly so,
that you don't actually have a flood tradition
enter into the literary corpus
until the second millennium,
the beginning of the second millennium.
Now, everybody listening might go who cares, right?
And I don't blame you, right?
Who cares about that?
Well, if you're a fundamentalist evangelical,
you should care,
because if you,
most people that take the Hebrew Bible quite literally,
like a fundamentalist would,
would say that the flood,
the worldwide flood,
swept over in the middle of the third millennium.
That's a problem for any number of reasons, right?
Outside of science.
Of course.
You know, you have clear Sumerian culture,
both archeological, textual,
you know, you name it,
we have it right on through the third millennium,
so right on through the time
that this worldwide flood
is supposed to kill everybody except eight people.
But what's interesting about the flood tradition
is that there's really nothing in the third millennium
about this flood tradition.
It's only 500 years later
than what fundamentals would say this flood
swept over the globe.
That all of a sudden,
you start to get different streams of traditions,
both in Sumerian and Akkadian,
developing in what's called the Old Babylonian period.
And so, you know, just sort of
distill that down just a touch.
We have a Sumerian flood story,
specifically that comes from,
we have a copy, at least one,
there might be two other fragments that are parts of it,
but from the city of Nipur,
from the Old Babylonian period.
And then we have the story,
the Akkadian story of Atrahasis,
which I'm sure people that are watching this channel
know Atrahasis, you know, reasonably well.
And then Gilgamesh, tablet 11,
pulls sometimes directly from Atrahasis.
And then you have other mentions of the flood.
So just a good example of this would be
there's a poem of the early rulers
that talks about when the flood swept over,
the one of the later versions
in the early 2nd millennium of the Sumerian king list
has the flood sweeping over,
and then the city of Kish begins to rule.
So, but it's a tradition that begins
in the early 2nd millennium
from all the evidence that we have.
And there's a really interesting way
that the stories not so much differ with one another,
there are obvious distinctions,
but the consistencies that they have
and how the Hebrew Bible turns them for its own purposes.
It kind of flips,
flips a lot of the themes
and the protagonist antagonist positions on its head.
So if we're looking at the Mesopotamian narrative,
the gods are kind of the bad guys.
They create humanity, humanity is too noisy.
So there's a series of several ways
that the god Enlil tries to like decrease our numbers.
So we're not so noisy.
We don't cause so many problems.
And his brother, the god Enki, keeps kind of foiling him.
So his final response is to send this flood
to try and wipe out humanity
so he can get some peace and quiet.
Which is not like the act of a benevolent deity
who is fond of his creation.
And Enki tells the protagonist,
build a boat, take these animals, take your family.
This is how you're going to survive this.
Whereas if you look at the accounts in the Hebrew Bible,
it's turned on its head.
Yahweh is presented as having no other choice
but to send the flood because of humanity's wickedness.
So it's flipping that narrative.
And it's very interesting the way that that's done.
And that's why I say it's intertextuality.
It's more interesting than a straight up theft.
The Israelites are not just taking this story
and saying, oh, this is ours.
Not your God, but my God.
They're taking it and they're changing it
so that it actually says something different.
It doesn't say God's a vengeful and unreliable
and will kill you if you are too noisy.
It says we as humans are wicked
and our God is just and had no other choice, essentially.
Yeah, I mean, like I just pulled up the Hebrew here
of Genesis six, five.
And like the emphasis,
Enlil and Anu, the two gods that are sort of responsible
for sending the flood,
that they're said to have acted irrationally, right?
And Enki is the one that through trickery, right?
Through stretching the truth, perhaps,
is able to save humanity.
And in the end, he's like,
he and, I think it's Baylidili,
are like, how could Enlil have done this, right?
So the deity, as Megan pointed out,
is the bad guy in this.
Whereas here in Genesis six,
and Yahweh saw that the wickedness of humanity
was really, really like rabbi, it was great in the earth.
And every imagination or intent of the thoughts
of his heart was only evil all the day.
Right.
So I mean, it's like you have,
God gets off the hook in this one, in a way.
Really, God's not even being put on the hook.
They're making sure that you're reading this
and cannot blame God at all in this.
And if you go to 821,
which is at the end, Noah's disembarked,
Yahweh smells the aroma of the sacrifice.
And he says,
I will never again curse humanity
even or because of, sorry,
curse the ground because of humanity.
Sorry, I'm trying to read this on the fly here.
Although, or even though the intents
of the heart of humanity are wicked from his youth.
So even here at the end, sort of like an inclusio,
like, hey, I sent this thing.
I was perfectly justified in doing so.
Yeah, but now I'm gonna be gracious.
And even though they're still gonna be wicked from birth,
I'm not gonna do this again.
This is, I think, clear polemicizing.
And of course, we're not.
I was gonna say, it not only works as a polemicizing thing,
but if I'm fast forwarding and imagine
this is a Judean scribe in the South,
I can see this being a post-Babylonian destruction
explanation for why Yahweh left them, forsook them.
And so we need to rationalize.
It's not that Yahweh wasn't strong enough.
It wasn't that he wasn't powerful than he wasn't God.
He left because we sinned, we were the ones who were evil.
And so I could see that theology
that they have rationalized why Babylon did what they did
to the temple and stuff.
I mean, this is-
Why would it work in this?
Yeah, I mean, this is the sort of like the play
of the Deuteronomistic historian, right?
When he's writing and like you see,
it's really hard to read the book of Deuteronomy
and then read the rest of the Deuteronomistic history,
Joshua through kings and not say, wait a second,
like you have all these curses in Deuteronomy 28
saying, if you do all this bad stuff,
I'm gonna curse you, ultimately ejecting you from the land.
And lo and behold, that's exactly how the story plays out,
right?
So it is like, that's certainly why this idea exists
that, you know, they're looking back at history,
what's happened to them and trying to explain,
this is not new, this is not novel to,
like Judean scribes, right?
Like when Marduk gets taken in the 12th century,
the statue of Marduk gets taken out to Elam.
Like this, Marduk is pissed, that's why he left, right?
It wasn't because Marduk was weak.
No, it wasn't because the foreign army was so strong,
they were able to overpower the city God.
No, he wanted to be taken because the people
of his city had screwed up.
It was punishment for them,
not some kind of victory for the Elamites.
That's right.
I giggle even though I bet if I was there,
I wouldn't be giggling.
Wow.
So I love this stuff,
journeying and seeing how the myths transformed purposefully
for their own cultural context, for their own situation.
And, you know, this is an interesting point, too,
is how they're borrowing from Mesopotamia
where they're probably just in the region already in a way
or somewhere in the vicinity.
This has got to be impactful.
It kind of makes me, this is outside
of the Assyriologist point of view,
but the whole Dukallion flood in Greece,
like I've read several scholars were like,
there was no flood in Greece.
They borrowed that from the Semitic East, you know,
going back into Mesopotamia and clearly getting it
from the East and bringing it and importing it
and creating their Dukallion myth.
In fact, even in earlier Greek sources,
like Homer and Hesseid, it's not there.
There's no Dukallion flood.
It happens later.
So it's really interesting to see how these different cultures
are going to these ancient floods.
And if there was a historical kernel,
it would be what, the Euphrates rising?
Well, yeah, I mean, flooding is, I mean,
it's a reality of human existence apart from anything else.
But the major early civilizations
were all built on rivers.
They had to be, you need fresh water.
I mean, think about Egypt.
The whole country is built along the Nile historically.
And the same is true of Mesopotamia.
If you look at a map showing the historical courses
of the rivers and the historical location
of the Persian Gulf, all of the major cities
are river cities.
So a couple of them are even built over rivers.
You've got like Sipar has like a city on one side
and a city on another.
And the river flows right through it.
So flooding was a thing.
And I think Mari, I'm digging back
into my archeology classes with Glenn Schwartz.
But I think it's Mari, half the city at one point
was wiped out by the flood.
And like they, I think it's Margueron draws a,
like, well, I'm digging deep for that one.
I was going to say.
Yeah, but I mean, like, yeah.
And if you think about, you know,
you got the tigers to the Euphrates,
but then you have these sort of channels, right?
And you get canals that are dug off of those.
And it just, you know, it doesn't take,
you know, it wouldn't take,
it's not a surprising event for floodwaters to come down
from the mountains and overflow, you know,
the canals or the river itself.
So worldwide flood happened.
Okay, got it.
Yeah, absolutely.
That's what I was saying.
And there is solid archeological evidence
to back that up.
Yes, Erica.
Let me ask you a more direct question,
cause both of you have been digging into this.
Megan, you're the real brains behind the writing here.
Josh kind of saying.
No, you really are.
Josh came and stayed with us for several,
almost two weeks.
It was seemingly a good minute.
And we talked about this in person.
We hung out, we had lots of conversations.
And I guess for both of you,
with all the research you've done as a seriologist,
if I were to ask you on the spot,
no, I defer, this isn't my expertise.
Even if it's your opinion, I would like to get your thoughts
because some scholars have more direct blunt,
they think here's the antecedent text
or here is what we think they're literally looking at
in some way, shape, or form,
and they're using into the Bible.
And maybe we start from there
and then get back into the Sumerian myth.
And then I want to talk about your book
cause I think how we can learn Sumerian
and then read the actual Sumerian floods
or other texts in the oldest known language in the world.
Sounds fascinating.
So if I said, Genesis, tell me whoever these scribes,
I'm putting this there cause who knows what, you know who.
No, no, no, you need a nest.
Right, what sources are they looking
at Gilgamesh tablet 11?
Is there anything?
Do you think they know these directly or help me out?
I doubt they're like sitting down and writing
with a Gilgamesh tablet next to them.
My intuition would be that they are familiar with the story.
I mean, it's used in scribal education, right?
Yeah, that's true actually.
We've got a fragment from Jericho, I think.
Is that, remember, I'm reading that correctly?
Or Megido, it might be from Megido.
Anyway, yeah, so I mean like Gilgamesh is used
in scribal education.
And so, yeah, the fact that they would be familiar
with that sort of thing is unsurprising.
And again, looking at the narrow linguistic parallels,
it's not just coincidental that they know of a story
about some flood, right?
I mean, there is dependence, let's call it that,
at a minimum dependence of the story in the Hebrew Bible
upon the Akkadian version.
And the way that you often see interplay
between, so like the Epic of Gilgamesh, for example,
is like it's bringing together the individual Sumerian stories
about Gilgamesh.
So like you have an independent story
about Gilgamesh and Huwawa out in the Cedar Forest.
And you have one about Ankydu dying.
That's right.
Albeit in a different manner,
but there's the death of Ankydu.
Yeah, you have Gilgamesh in the bowl of heaven
where, you know, Inanna goes up to heaven
because she's really pissed at Gilgamesh,
because she, you know, pronounces her love for him
and wants to marry him and he says, no, no, thanks.
No, thank you.
I value my life.
And so she goes up to heaven and gets the bowl of heaven
and, you know, they have to defeat it.
Well, these individual stories that are in Sumerian
get brought down and connected into a larger Epic.
And even there, right?
This is important.
Even there, the scribe that's putting the Epic
of Gilgamesh together is doing something with those stories.
It's not just this slavish, you know, grab this,
it's not just like copying and pasting it
into a Word document and like typing out a sentence or two
to transition between the different stories.
He's taking them, he's reworking them entirely,
taking bits of one, the whole story of another
and crafting this single narrative
and framing it with an introduction and a conclusion
that is completely original.
And kind of,
forms the whole thing into a commentary
on like the nature of mortality,
which was not really present in the original stories.
Like you get it a little bit in the death of Enkidu,
but it's not present in the original stories.
So he's taking these themes, these stories,
these characters that are already in existence
that he's obviously very familiar with,
that the audience would be familiar with,
but he's making something new
for a specific purpose out of them.
Yeah.
Sorry, I completely took over the position.
I feel like you were wanting to say something.
I felt it and I didn't want to interrupt you.
In your sub-spirit.
I can pick up the pheromones of speech from you.
And I know you wanted to say something.
I was going to say something too, but I was like...
No, go ahead, because I've forgotten what it was.
So that's fine.
Let me just throw in this spaghetti
at the wall to see what sticks with this.
And that is, a lot of times people are writing
with political agenda, religious, political,
and especially in Mesopotamia, very king,
like a kingship kind of material.
Is Gilgamesh, is this story about Gilgamesh,
kind of like how we see Marduk becomes the chief god later?
Is Gilgamesh playing some historical role in reality
that they're crafting this narrative about him
and making him a key player in it?
Isis, go ahead.
No, I'm thinking about kingship.
Yeah, she's been actually working with kingship recently.
I'll say what I think.
So I suspect the reason that Gilgamesh is being used here
outside of the stories that were about him,
I think that the point of what we see in the epic, at least,
is that Gilgamesh is this sort of impetuous,
running roughshod,
favored of the gods,
the strongest in the world,
but only by a little, thank you.
But he's crafted, right in the beginning,
being this dick, right?
I mean, he's just-
He's the antithesis of what a king should be.
Exactly, exactly.
And this is something, by the way,
that fundamentals to evangelicals
should probably pay close attention to.
You hear every day,
oh, those other countries,
the Canaanites and the Assyrians, if they, you know,
anyway, and they're just wicked, wicked people.
Well, you know, not exactly,
if you read through royal inscriptions,
as Megan is pointing out,
or you read through just the textual data that we have,
or even the iconographic stuff that we have,
the narrative is kingship is tied together,
as you were talking about earlier,
and I'll let you talk about heroism,
but like, it's shepherding and it's care,
not only for the gods
and making sure they get fed and they're taken care of,
but for the people, right?
And bringing justice and strength
and protection to the vulnerable,
the widow and the orphan.
And doing so by fighting the chaos
of the rebel lands that is out there, right?
Now, is that propagandistic?
Absolutely.
Oh, yes.
But, so is the Bible.
Bite your tongue.
Bite it.
So, yeah, I think,
I think those are important things to recognize,
but sorry, go ahead, that's...
No, I didn't really have anything pertinent.
I just, Derek was talking about Gilgamesh and kingship,
and I gave a presentation on Tuesday
to a high school class about kingship and Gilgamesh,
so my brain was like,
oh, yes, kingship and heroes, and this is very interesting,
but it's not actually relevant to what we're talking about.
Well, I do want to point this out.
Like, we've talked a little bit about
how the Hebrew Bible interplays
with the early Mesopotamian flood traditions,
but there are other ways that this happens,
not just in the flood.
And these are things that, again,
if you can go back and read, ideally,
go back and read the stories in their original texts,
these things sort of pop out at you.
And I just, I took a couple of notes today
as I was going back through some things,
but in Ashrahasis, the Acadian story,
Megan was talking about how Enlil,
there's so much noise because the people,
the people have been created to do hard labor for the gods,
so the Yigigi gods don't have to do it.
So like, the people are innocent, right?
You know, they're just doing what they were created to do,
and they're making noise because they're multiplying,
and Enlil's frustrated,
and so he decides to try to call the population,
call the herd.
There's one god that continues,
slyly, right, to come to the rescue of humanity.
And he does this by going to Ashrahasis,
this man of great wisdom,
and revealing to him, hey, hey, there's a plague
that Enlil's sending, here's what you do.
Here's who you pray to to get the plague to go away.
This is the right god to make offerings to,
and then that god will take care of this.
And so Enki Isiraeia is coming,
using this crafty skill that he has
to be able to rescue humanity through Atrahasis.
Then the second, the plague doesn't work,
and so he sends, he's gonna do a famine, right?
And same thing, Enki comes, tells him who to pray to,
and then sends a spade of fish.
Does that rain fish or something?
Yeah, to sustain humanity.
So again.
Not at all like manna from heaven.
No, or the fish.
Or indeed, yes, the fit, yeah.
And notice, well, anyway, yeah,
the quail that are sent to punish it anyway.
Interesting.
Another reversal.
Yeah, I mean, yeah, we'd have to.
Yeah, that would take some arguing,
but it's just interesting, yes.
Because I mean, Moses says all the fish are the sea.
I would just be able to feed this population.
Anyway, but what's interesting about this
is that the first two, the plague,
and then the famine, Enki comes,
or Aia comes through this crafty,
duplicitous stuff, right?
That's going behind the back of the gods, it's sending it.
Is this the time he's talking at the wall?
Yeah, almost, that's the flood.
Okay, got it, got it.
But the first two times he says,
look, here's Atrahasis, here's how you save humanity.
That's what makes the third one interesting
because when Enlil determines, hey,
we're sending a flood to kill them all.
Aia does the same thing that he's done.
He's made to swear an oath
that he's not gonna go tell humanity.
So that's what he does is he goes
and speaks to the reed fence and says, build this boat.
So for those who aren't familiar with the story,
Atrahasis is behind the reed fence,
and Aia says, oh, I'm not going to go and tell a person.
So he just goes and randomly talks to this fence,
which of course is hiding Atrahasis.
So it's a way around the oath
that still gets the information where it needs to be, yes.
But what makes this part interesting
is that the story talks about the flood hero saying to Aia,
hey, what do I tell these people?
Because if you think about how the biblical text is set up,
who builds the boat?
Noah, right?
Here in Atrahasis, in the Mesopotamian tradition,
it's a community effort.
He's getting the carpenters,
he's getting people that can do the pitch,
the bitumen on the outside.
He pays them as well, doesn't he?
I know he throws a feast,
at least I don't remember if he pays them,
but it's a community that's coming together
all to build this boat.
And so Atrahasis is like,
what do I tell these people?
Because I know, I know I'm not saving humanity.
I'm just saving me and my family.
And Enki says, lie to them.
And so he lies to them,
and it's interesting at the end,
what he says at the end of the story,
but he lies to him and says,
hey, tell them that Enlil's really pissed at you
and that you can't stay in this realm,
because Enlil gets the middle realm,
and Aia gets the subterranean waters realm.
So what we're gonna do is, as my servant,
I'm gonna bring you down to the opsu,
and you're gonna live with me,
so you have to have a boat built.
So like, they won't know what's coming.
And he even throws them this feast at the end,
and it talks about how he's retching gall,
because he can't eat, he's pacing back and forth,
because he's like, is there guilt?
And the note that I put here is twice now,
Enki Aia has helped Atrahasis save the people.
Now Atrahasis apparently knows what is coming
and can't tell the people.
And then I kind of, you know, went in my head here.
I wonder if the idea is that the reader is supposed to feel
that the people are completely innocent
and trusting Atrahasis,
who has to keep the truth from them.
And of course, this is the opposite
of what we see in the Hebrew Bible, right?
The people aren't helping.
The people are so wicked, and it's Noah's gotta do it.
Noah and his sons, and you know, like,
it's that you don't feel, when you read the biblical text,
you don't feel sorry for the people.
Even if you watch like a superbook,
if you remember, you guys watching,
remember superbook, the cartoon, you know, the flood one,
like, oh, they're out there,
and they're making fun of Noah.
Who builds a boat?
We haven't even seen anything like this, you know.
So it's completely different.
And in fact, and this is the other thing,
or the other note that I made at the end of the story,
of course, Enlil finds out,
I'll be quiet after this, I'm so sorry,
but Enlil finds out what's happened.
And he's like, what the hell?
Like, how did these people survive?
And they're like, well, who do you think told them, right?
It's a mystery.
So, excuse me.
To defend himself, I'm so sorry,
Aya says, I did this to protect you, the gods.
And it's, so what I wrote here,
it's interesting that Enki is being deceptive
in order to benefit man, right?
He's because he's keeping humanity alive.
And as we're gonna find out later
with the Gilgamesh tab 11,
it's to keep the, you know, those secrets,
the knowledge, the secret or whatever.
But also to benefit the gods,
here is another example of lying from a God
that is seen as a good thing.
And Derek, where else do we see lying
in Genesis one through 11 as a good thing?
I mean, it could never be the Garden of Eden.
No, it couldn't be.
We'd have to find it somewhere else.
And this is why I think understanding
this Mesopotamian background,
it puts you in a really good position
to not have to buck against, whoa, Yahweh,
Yahweh can't be lying here when he says
that when they eat of the fruit,
they'll die that day immediately.
That can't be, it has to be like spiritual death
or something, right?
Or they're eventually gonna die.
That's what it means.
No, Yahweh can be deceptive and it's not a bad thing.
That's the point.
In the ancient Near Eastern context,
this makes so much sense.
And that's why I love like learning from you
and learning from the scholars who are going back
and not having what I call theological blinders
or anachronisms in their ideas.
This is so much fun.
One thing I wanna ask you about just thinking of Inky
for a second here.
It's really interesting to try and enter the mind
of maybe how whoever the people are
that are reading the Atrahasis epic.
But in a way, it seems like morally,
he's also saving the gods
by not completely eradicating humanity.
How would they have been seen on a moral ground?
I just wonder if they had any moral culpability
due to the complete eradication of humans.
Thanks to Inky, their wrath was kind of appeased.
And here we are with a barbecue after the flood
going, okay, again, it's the same.
You know what?
I'm not gonna do that again.
I shouldn't do that again.
That barbecue.
And that's what's interesting.
And then you should talk.
I get them all riled up.
Yahweh is not dependent upon in the story
that the reader doesn't walk away
thinking Yahweh is dependent upon sacrifices.
That is the opposite, complete opposite
of what you see in the Mesopotamian flood tradition
because the gods, it's like they shoot themselves
in the foot and little Anu shoot themselves in the foot.
This is why like Aruru and the mother goddess,
she's like, why did we do this?
Because what is it that the Mesopotamian thought process
was concerning the care and feeding of the gods?
It's that humans are made to serve the gods, to feed them.
And so if you kill them all, that's right.
They get thirsty and they get hungry.
So then when it talks about Eugenia Pishitim
or Atrahasis or Ziazudra coming out and sacrificing
and the gods swarm around it like flies,
it's this ravenous like, oh my God, we're so hungry.
And that's not Yahweh, right?
That's not Yahweh, Yahweh smells it and-
It's enjoyable, but it's not like-
Does change his mind or his heart.
Yeah.
And that's an important,
I think that's an important thing to notice, but sorry.
If I had something to say, I would-
Oh, okay.
You just made him.
Yeah.
So I guess what, I think you're in the same boat as me
in saying like what Josh is saying makes sense.
And in light of this, God is,
while God favors these corporeal realities and experiences
that we see that are still remnants, I'll call them fossils,
but they weren't fossils in the mind of the viewer.
They're the reader at this time.
They really did believe God still ate these sacrifices.
Yeah.
Oh, absolutely.
And I think if you get right back to it,
there's not a massive amount of difference
between the practicalities of worship for state religion.
I'm gonna be very specific there
because we don't know an awful lot about domestic religion.
We don't know how ordinary people worshiped
because ordinary people in Mesopotamia and Israelites
did not have access to like direct access
to the cult statue, to the God.
They had to go through temples and priests and kings.
So in Mesopotamia, at least you get festivals
where the statues of the gods are brought out of the temple
and they go on maybe a little boat trip down the river,
see their spouse go back up the river
and back into their temple again.
Those would really be the only times
that your average person had access,
like direct access to their God.
So how religion works domestically
is something people are still working on.
And I've completely lost, no, I haven't.
Okay, and this is the same in Israelite religion.
And I'm not an expert in Israelite history,
but the practicalities are the same.
People don't have access to the gods.
You sacrifice, you do live animal sacrifices,
you burn the meat and the odor, the aroma
is what the gods kind of subsist on, Yahweh included.
But it's very definitely framed in Mesopotamian mythology
as being more of a codependent relationship, I think,
than you see in the Hebrew Bible.
Yahweh is depicted more as, like, we're more like pets.
Humans are more like pets for Yahweh or children.
And he expects a certain level of behavior
and we don't live up to those expectations.
So there are consequences.
With Mesopotamia, there's a lot more of a given take.
It's much more of a, I am going-
It's not one sided only, like-
Yeah, exactly.
The gods benefit from humanity's existence.
People, obviously the sacrifices are hugely important.
It's what keeps them not necessarily alive,
but like strong and vital and healthy.
And people tend to their temples,
which were considered the gods household.
So you need humanity for all of that physical activity
because the gods not going to just get up,
walk around and like herd sheep, right?
We're here for.
So there's a very definite splits
in how the relationships are conceived of.
Just something to note on that.
And then Josh, whatever you got, brother,
I could smell the thinking there.
Is the idea of the given take that we see here,
you can tell the author of the Bible
is aware of that given take
with the anti quit trying to seek that divine,
quit trying to be like the gods,
which all these earlier predecessors were,
humans are striving and hand in hand
with the deities civilization, kingship,
all of this stuff seems to be like,
don't stop.
And Enoch, right?
We have Enochian traditions
which really hint at this weird,
this ascending to the deities and being that close.
So I just, I see what you're saying
and it makes me think it also tells us how human
those gods are on a different level.
They're much more like us, even if they are bigger
than somewhat we see certain attributes of Yahweh,
but it's like they're really clearly just so obviously
in my, from what I'm hearing, it sounds like.
Yeah, and there's certainly not univocality
in the Hebrew Bible about this, right?
So when you read Genesis one
and you read the creation story,
you get a much more transcendent, majestic,
out there, the C is his play thing, right?
Whereas in Genesis two, some trial and error,
hey, let me, we've got this guy that I made,
bring the animals up,
see if there's somebody, one of these suited for him.
No, all right, well, I'll make one, right?
So did he try and actually try to see if it works?
I mean, I hope not, but this is something
that I think is actually very important to juxtapose
with the conceptions in Mesopotamian thought,
as you were talking about of the gods,
because one of the things that I wrote my dissertation on
were these songs that priests,
these certain priests would sing or recite
to particular deities, quite often Enlil,
in order to appease them, right?
To calm their heart is that the language that's used.
And the idea was, and I think I've talked about this
actually on the program, but just in case people forgot it,
you know, temples were made out of mud brick
and they, you know, the mud brick only lasts
about 50 years before you have to do a significant,
you know, rebuild.
And anytime you fuck with a, you know, a God's house,
like it leaves open the possibility
he's gonna get pissed and leave, right?
Like think about having built us in
and having something renovated.
Do you want to stay there?
No. No.
And if you think about, you know,
what they envisioned when we were talking about Marduk,
for example, when Marduk left, you know,
it was coincidentally the same time
that they were conquered, right?
And so the God is there, if you go back,
I talk about this, I think in volume one
of the Atheist handbook, but you go back to this thing
called the Umalagash border conflict
and the third millennium,
it's two cities that are fighting with each other.
But the way that it's framed is the God of one city,
Nangirsu is fighting the God of the other city,
Shara of the city of Umma.
And whoever wins, it's actually depicted
in the iconography and the Steely of the Vultures.
Like whoever wins, it's the city wins.
That plays out in the mortal realm at the same time.
That's right.
And it's, you know, it's very much on par
with some of the things that we see,
like in the book of Daniel later in the book of Daniel, right?
You have like divine beings who are over,
you know, certain nations.
Anyway, the point is that, or where I was going with this,
is that the God is there to protect the city
and to keep things going and keep things in order.
And so if you go messing with this temple
or if you take the statue of the God out on a parade
during like the New Year's festival or something,
these are these liminal, like on liminal spaces
or liminal events where it's like the in between
and the God could decide, I'm out, right?
I'm not putting up with this.
And so what you do is the priest is there
to recite these prayers to him, these songs,
him or her.
And what they do is they talk about all of the bad shit
that will happen if the God leaves.
So, oh, and Lill, you know,
the city fell into total disrepair
and long grass grew at the wall
and the invaders came in and destroyed us.
The mothers mourned their children
and young women mourned their husbands and...
The butter churned, overturned,
something that we can all identify with.
But the point is that the God's are seen as capricious.
That's the point.
And this is an idea that would have been very, very clear
in the first one.
Even think about the story of Era, Era and Isham.
Era's this, I mean, I can't think of it.
He's a bloodthirsty God, right?
And Marduk leaves his throne for a little while
to touch up his statue.
And Era just, I mean, just goes crazy on the people
and just killing people.
So this was the depiction of the deity.
And so you gotta keep him calm,
gotta make sure everything's just right for them.
That's not Yahweh, right?
Everything that Yahweh does on the whole
is very much above board, right?
He's the good guy.
And he's the one that wants to protect.
He wants to be there for the people,
but sinful humanity, wicked humanity,
they do it to themselves.
I have to ask you, Megan, this is something that,
the way you described it earlier,
and then Josh, you said a few things
that also went in line with this.
They would get the God or God's goddesses.
They would parade them or even have them
make a visit to their wife.
Now, this is gonna sound funny.
I don't mean this in any funny, bad way,
but kids today, whether it's a little boy playing
with GI Joes or a girl with dolls or whatever it may be,
they're playing with these toys,
but they're really living in that world as kids
in this kind of fictive state of these dolls
really love them back and they have these kind of connections.
As humans, I think we inherently have this
towards inanimate objects that we assume might be animate
or as some scientists will say,
there's like agency, we assume agency
and things that may not have them.
It sounds to me, the way it was described,
and I'm sure it's way more complex,
adults playing with dolls in a way.
It's like these big idols,
and they're far more serious, of course,
than just playing a game,
but they really believe these things.
I'm just saying, it sounds like they're in that world
that these, these,
absolutely, yeah, absolutely.
And it's, there are, there are striking parallels
between children playing with dolls
and what we're talking about here
with Mesopotamian state religion,
but the gods would be like,
have personal attendants who would dress them,
who would like wash them, clean them,
put their robes on, get their breakfast out for them,
then clear away afterwards.
You've got all of that going on, on a daily basis,
as well as the cult festivals
where gods are taken out in like glitters,
like carried up on people's shoulders
and paraded through the cities.
But you also have, and I wrote my first master's thesis
on this, it was a while ago, so bear with me,
but you have hymns and communications
to and from the gods.
So you have, you have kings, especially writing
about their relationships with the gods
and about how the gods viewed them.
And you have prophetic readings
or specifically in the near Assyrian period,
you have people giving oracles,
saying the god is angry because of X.
And this all works together to kind of give a connection,
or at least the impression of a connection
between the mortals, again, specifically the king,
because that's really the evidence we have here
is about the king.
But between the king and between the gods
and kings are described as the beloved of the gods.
You get descriptions, again, in the near Assyrian period,
which is what, like the first millennium BCE,
you get descriptions of the goddess,
usually Ishtar being like a mother to the god.
She suckled the gods, no, not the god,
being a mother to the king.
She suckled the king, she put him on his throne.
She is responsible for all of the great things he's done.
She loves him.
And this is throughout Mesopotamian history, right?
Gods and kings are beloved of X, Y and Z god.
And I think there is, regardless of how cynical you are
as to how much of this is propaganda,
because yes, it absolutely, a lot of it is propaganda,
but I think it would be a little of an overreach
to say that the kings did not believe in the gods
and they did not believe that they were favored by the gods,
because if they weren't favored by the gods,
they wouldn't be king.
It's just how it works, right?
The fact that they're publicizing it, obviously,
is to do with propaganda
and to do with convincing everyone else
that they should remain king.
But there is definitely this relationship
that is built and maintained by the people
and by individuals and the elites, especially.
I think I committed a sin here and took us off track.
So I hope Yahweh doesn't take-
One of us was going to do it.
Every intent of the thought of Derek's heart
is only evil continually.
Atrahasis, talking to the wall, we went into this,
we started showing some interesting things
about how the gods have an interdependent relationship
on humans, they need them for food,
they need them to dig the canals or the Igigi gods
are gonna strike again, like we don't want that,
we need them, okay.
There's other myths and I feel like we're going backwards
to try and get to Sumerian
and like the most prototype model of this,
but I don't wanna put words in your mouth
or even the idea there if that's not the path
you're trying to take, so I'm following your lead.
Yeah, I mean, I think what people probably should recognize
about Sumerian is that it's the earliest language that we have
and while you do have a section in the second half
of the third millennium BCE where like the Sargonic Empire
comes into power and Akkadian is a very important,
obviously language there, Sumerian is a living language
and there's a little bit of debate about when that runs out,
is it during the war three period at the end
of the third millennium or does it go
into the old Babylonian period,
but if we assume that Sumerian dies as like a living,
like it dies as a living language, dies out
and becomes a dead language, right around 2000,
BCE, it's not that Sumerian goes out of style,
it's just it gets restricted to a scribal context,
right, or a professional context
and so Sumerian literature blows up,
I mean, blows up right around 1800 BCE,
so if you, you know, we have the city of Nippur,
Dan and Southern Mesopotamia and we have this,
we have other cities as well, Sipar and Oren,
but even Oruk, but like we have this huge cache
of tablets found in scribal education contexts
and like the literature, everybody knew Akkadian,
right, if you know how to write, if you know how to read,
so you did that in Akkadian, right, everybody,
but the good scribes, what kind of a scribe
doesn't know Sumerian, right,
that was the, and that comes up in the text themselves,
what scribe doesn't know Sumerian,
only good scribes know Sumerian
and so the literature that explodes
in the first quarter of the second millennium BCE,
that tradition, like it is the one that,
you know, obviously we studied today,
it's the, that's where the main source of literature
comes from, but so much of the mythology grows from there
and of course you get Akkadian parallels to these things,
but it really is in Sumerian where these stories begin,
and I think part of the reason that that's interesting
for people, for example, that studied the Bible
is that, you know, there's a book by Samuel Noah Kramer
that was written back in like the 50s, I think,
but it's history begins at Sumer
and it's so true, right,
you know, I opened my Fulbright application
with the line, history begins at Sumer
and then the whole thing was about like,
you can trace back the effects on modern Western civilization
right on back through to Sumerian,
the Sumerian, you know, ancient Sumer
because if you think about just the tradition,
you know, the New Testament of course
is pulling from the old, right,
and reliant upon the old,
the Old Testament of the Hebrew Bible
is heavily dependent upon its Mesopotamian precursors
and predecessors and things that were going
in contemporary circles,
and that those circles in the first millennium
are scribal education pulls
from these earlier Akkadian Sumerian texts,
and even the other part of my dissertation
was writing on these liturgical texts
I was just talking about.
Well, that tradition becomes canonized
down into the first millennium,
and those, again, these are the things,
this is the culture and the impact of Mesopotamian literature
and language upon the rest of the ancient Near East,
and of course on the Hebrew Bible is very, very important,
you can just run that right on back to ancient Sumer,
so obviously we think it's an important language
and tradition, I understand.
I'd like, Megan, tell me what you think,
I mean, obviously you agree, girl,
I'm just saying, is there anything
that you'd want to add to that?
Because that's a lot, it's very important
we get back there and understand what's going on.
I'm falling in love with these stories more.
I mean, I had like, when I first started MythVision,
it was all like just anti-apologetics,
don't get me wrong, I still do that,
still want to poke holes and show how silly
some of the literalism is,
but I'm actually enjoying learning about these cultures,
the humans behind them, the stories,
they told, it just makes me connect to humanity at large
and why we did these things on a different level.
So maybe you're two cents.
You know, I think I absolutely agree with what Josh says,
I think it's really important for understanding
where a lot of very common beliefs
in modern Western civilization come from,
because they come from somewhere,
and a lot of the time that somewhere is Sumerian mythology.
But I also think that, or at least for me,
one of the wonderful things about being able to read
dead languages specifically, Sumerian,
you get this wonderful window into people.
And a lot of what we have, yes,
is elite literature and propaganda,
but we also have personal letters and tax records,
and that might not seem very exciting,
but you can use that to reconstruct a whole world
that has been dead and gone for five, 4,000 years,
which I find really exciting,
and I love being able to look at,
so my specialization before I left my PhD program
was Royal Inscriptions,
that's why I keep talking about propaganda,
that's what I do.
I loved being able to look at something
that was buried underneath a temple 4,000 years ago,
and read what it said,
and have that give me an insight
into the mindset of the people who buried it,
like, what was this thing doing?
Why was it buried?
Being able to read that inscription
doesn't give you the whole answer,
but it helps you start your journey into that question,
and I love being able to read things
that people wrote so long ago,
and to get a feel for what was important to them,
and how their world worked,
because I think language gives you
a really unique insight into what is important
in a culture and in a society,
and I love being able to do it,
and I love sharing it with people,
and honestly, the learn to read
Ancient Sumerian video series
on the Digital Hammurabi channel
is far and away the most popular video series,
we've ever done, and yeah, I think playlists,
it'll be down the bottom somewhere.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
Yep, Learn Ancient Sumerian, yeah.
Let me show that to you.
And we were both incredibly shocked
at how popular it was, and continues to be,
and I think it really speaks to the fact
that people are just interested in ancient history,
interested in the past, and being able to give people
access to this information
that is frankly really difficult to get hold of.
If you don't go through grad school,
really this was the first, like we did this, what, 2019?
Yeah, I think so.
That was the first general introduction
to Sumerian literature, ha!
Snap.
Somebody got it, you know what I'm saying?
The rest of them are written by academics for academics,
and they are reference grammars,
and they're written with the understanding
that you already know Sumerian,
and you need to look up a specific point
of grammatical inquiry, which is great
for people who already know Sumerian,
for people who don't already know Sumerian,
it's really unhelpful and quite dense
and difficult to get through.
So we're just being able to share this information
with people just makes me really, really happy,
and the fact that people actually want it
is a wonderful thing, I'd love it.
And if I could piggyback on that,
so this sort of is a really good segue
into Oddly Enough Book Three,
the last in the series that I just wrote
the introduction for.
So the way that this series works is the first book
gives you...
You're talking about Atheist Handbook?
No, I'm sorry.
Okay, got it, got it, got it.
I don't know what you're saying, Mary.
The first book gives you basic grammar, right?
But basic grammar enough that you can read that by the end.
This one, I think, is at the British Museum.
Yeah, so like...
So by the end of the book,
you should be able to go to the British Museum
and read that.
Yeah, just look through the glass.
I have to say, as a geeky, nerdy type person being able
to go into a museum and read something,
it's really, really cool.
It's a really cool feeling.
He obnoxiously outlawed.
And he went down the street.
Absolutely, I was like,
Mom, do you know what this says?
Let me read it for you.
But...
Very obnoxious.
So then the second book,
the one that just came out,
builds on the grammar.
The example that I think I give is...
When I talked about this the last time,
it was like, if you're trying to teach a kid
or somebody that's learning English,
you might say, we're gonna be introduced to plurals today.
So if you wanna make a word of plural,
you put an S on the end.
You don't then say,
now there are examples where you could put E-N on the end,
ox and oxen or goose could go to geese.
You don't talk about the irregular plurals.
You let them have the S makes it a plural for a while.
Get them comfortable with that.
Part of the problem with learning ancient languages
is that people that write the books out of necessity
are trying to give you everything about each topic,
our Greek grammatical feature at once.
And it becomes really overwhelming
to learn all the different little parts.
So what we did is the first book
is just basically teach you S makes it a plural, right?
Don't worry about the other variations, thank you.
Then book two gives you the variations in a systematic way.
Book three is gonna be this really cool hybrid.
I know I say that it's cool
because I think it is cool.
But Megan was talking about
the different types of texts that we have, right?
So we have the literature, we have the liturgies,
we have royal inscriptions, but we have receipts,
you have letters, you have omens, right?
Well, you know, you have incantations,
you have legal contracts, you have law collections,
like there's all kinds of stuff that you have.
And what we're gonna do is chronologically go through
the, starting in the earlier periods of Sumerian,
go through and explain all the different types of texts
or the main types of texts that you find.
Give examples.
Give examples, give translations, you know,
and so that you can walk away going,
oh my gosh, I could read a thousand different receipts
and like of one different city
and like come up with an economic,
you know, understanding of their economy based on that,
or I can really focus in on legal texts
and understand, you know, how the system worked there,
the legal system worked, or I can read literature,
whatever, but that's, by the time you get to the end,
I mean, I'm convinced of this,
and we've had people using the books already.
I had, they work, I mean, they work.
So, I had to explain.
The enemy of Carl Sagan, and when he,
when he was commissioning a golden plate
with 50 different languages
and going to send them off into outer space,
hoping extraterrestrial life will come across this language
and just somehow figure out one of these languages
and then they can know about us
and understand our message to them.
But I think if linguist would have talked to Carl Sagan,
they might have halted him and said,
actually language is connected to culture
and if you don't have that connection,
you're never gonna solve this riddle
of understanding the culture and the people through the language,
we have that connection,
unlike some extraterrestrials,
if they ever came across it.
And I thought it was interesting to just think about
how there's a golden plate floating out there,
probably that has no use to anything that discovers
that other than to say, what is this?
Something's up with this, this is not natural.
Well, I mean, I feel like I do need to correct you
because I know Megan's thinking it, right?
And this is important, the aliens know about us.
Right?
I mean, this is like Zacharized Sitchin,
haven't you heard of Zacharized Sitchin?
Right? I mean, like ancient aliens, like...
I'm sorry, we are talking about Sumerian and stuff like that.
My bad, she would have known better.
Anyway, I'm being funny, but I want to ask you this though,
Sumerian flood, we talked about Atrahasis,
we talked about Gilgamesh,
we flirted with some of these other myths
that come a little bit later.
Maybe I'm jumping the gun and going all the way back to Sumer,
but your books will help people to be able
to actually go to these tablets eventually
and be able to read and solve some of the stuff going on
and the oldest known stories and stuff.
Tell us about the Sumerian flood
or are there something before Atrahasis
we need to tackle before we get back to Sumer?
What do you think?
I'm just pulling up
the electronic text corpus of Sumerian literature website,
and I'm sorry for the name,
it's apparently the best we can come up with.
So we're all just very good at naming things, Josh.
How dare you?
How dare I? How very dare you?
So if you look, obviously, in the background of the window here,
that's the tablet that is the Sumerian flood story.
We're Megan sharing the screen.
Are you sure?
I'm just requesting.
Make sure your social security numbers are on that.
OK, cool.
So this is this is another reason why
it's really embalming just back up for just a second
so that you guys can see this.
Oops.
OK, I completely I can't see them out.
Never mind.
I think you did it.
Well, damn.
OK, what are we looking for?
I just want to just do it.
I can just do it.
It's all right.
Oh, because the mouse has turned itself off.
Oh, there you go.
There we go.
I don't know what's going on.
The window is just.
Yeah.
Zachary has come in.
Can you come read this Sumerian for us?
We're just going to.
I don't know what's going on here.
By the way, there's so many compliments in chat
in case you both were interested in hearing lots of positivity.
Good.
Yeah, thank you.
I'm so sorry.
This is deeply unprofessional.
No, it's totally fine.
There we go.
OK, now we now now we got it.
And thank you.
I have actually been tracking the chat.
Everyone's been there.
Absolutely lovely.
You have a wonderful audience.
OK.
Thank you, Megan.
Does not surprisingly in this life.
And yes, I am that lady from Bart Ehrman's podcast.
Yes.
Couple of people have caught that.
Well done.
So this.
And I'm married to this guy.
We have children.
So.
Man.
So this is the electronic text corpus Sumerian literature.
The one of the one of the results.
If you if you do this, the first two books in particular,
you'll be able to read the stuff that's on here.
Maybe not perfectly.
Right.
And we can't read it perfectly.
But pretty well.
So I'll just show you how much is here really quickly.
And this is Sumerian.
This is all Sumerian.
And these each of these sections have.
Multiple texts associated with them.
This is just how they've been organized.
These are not just individual texts.
Oh, yeah.
There's a lot.
So here, if you want stories about Enki.
Here are the literary texts that are about Enki.
If you want them about Gilgamesh, here are the Gilgamesh stories.
So we were talking about Gilgamesh and Huwawa Gilgamesh Enki doing the
Netherworld Gilgamesh and the Bull of Heaven.
If you just click on that.
This is what Sumerian looks like.
After it's been taken out of QNF.
Right.
Right.
And so you'll be able to read this rated or something to the effect.
So.
Then if you look at it's under other deities for some reason,
I don't know why.
Here's the flood story.
There it is in transliteration.
You can see that it's pretty fragmentary.
Obviously, if you think back to the way that tablet looked on our screen is broken.
That's pretty common.
But you can see it in translation.
So they give you the English.
Right.
And if people are interested in finding this for themselves,
you can Google E T C S L Sumerian.
And it will come up.
I think it's the first entry that comes up.
And if you take it, can you take us back to the homepage for a minute?
I'm looking for it.
It'll come up with this thing.
So if you look on the right of the screen,
you can have corpus content by category or corpus content by number.
Either will give you a list of things that you can then click through and read yourself.
But if you look C S L homepage or.
E T C S L Sumerian.
Yeah.
Okay.
I think I found it.
I'm going to paste that in the chat unless one of the mods does it before me.
I think I'm there.
You can actually probably see.
Let's see if this is it.
Make sure this is right.
Oh, I'm a dummy.
Stop sharing my screen.
Here we go.
Is this it?
This is the homepage.
No.
No, but if you click, if that was the first one.
Okay.
Got it.
Okay.
It just confused me a little bit.
Okay.
Back to your page though.
Sorry.
So if you look, you know, this is what makes this stuff so exciting.
Again, it's fragmentary where these little dots are like this.
It means that, you know, the line is broken or the tab is broken.
But here it is.
Excuse me.
So here the gods are.
Making the other gods taken oath.
Right.
Here's the Udsudra standing at its side.
Heard and he say, sidewall standing at my left side.
Sidewall.
I will speak words to you.
Right.
This is that read fence thing.
A flood will sweep over the decision that the seat of mankind is to be destroyed has
been made.
Right.
So it's the story.
Here's the in segment D.
Here's the flood, you know, the flood sweeps over with the gales and waves and windstorms.
Notice here's the Udsudra, the one of long life drills and opening in the boat and who
to is the sun.
God comes in and then he offers things.
The animals disembark.
You know, onto the earth.
So I mean, like this is, this is the early flood story notice here.
At that time, because of preserving the animals in the seat of mankind, they settled the Udsudra,
the king in an overseas country in the land of deal moon where the sun rises.
And if you think about the Epic of Gilgamesh, Gilgamesh has to go to the ends of the earth,
run through the tunnel, beat the sun, right?
Go over the sea of devil.
This is the tradition.
You see it in the Babylonian map of the world.
Right.
And you see it in the Epic of Gilgamesh.
This is maintaining the secret lore with, you know, with humanity, but keeping it away from humanity.
It's, it's again, it's, you've talked about this a lot.
It's like the Adopimeth, but yeah, this is where it starts, right?
This is, this is where we get it.
So isn't you, you bring up some of the linguistic stuff like disembarked.
We have an English, you know, we use that.
I know that Sumerians not directly going to connect to the Hebrew.
That would be through Akkadian.
That's right.
And so, but that whole idea, the very, the themes are over and over same themes we see.
If I were to have you like debunk in 60 seconds, both of you to debunk the idea that, well, actually the flood, you know, it's a real thing.
It goes back, Noah's really the true, you know, the true flood and that they didn't borrow from earlier myths.
It's, in fact, just because it's earlier doesn't mean it's better number one and number two.
Doesn't mean that that one is the true one or that Noah really didn't come before those and it just was written down later.
Can you debunk some of this stuff for fun?
Just, just, I mean, honestly, no, I'm not trying to argue that the Mesopotamian narrative is better or more accurate.
I don't think there was a worldwide flood.
So accuracy for me is completely irrelevant.
These are literary texts.
It's mythology.
I find it interesting from a literary perspective.
I find it interesting from a text transmission standpoint and from a cultural perspective to look at how people use literature and change it throughout history.
I think saying, oh, well, just because it's older doesn't mean it's better.
I don't give a fuck.
I'm not saying it is better.
I'm saying, isn't this interesting?
You can disagree with me and say, no, it's not interesting.
That's your prerogative.
You don't have to find the same things intellectually interesting that I do.
As far as Noah being a real person, I mean, like there is nothing I can say that is going to dissuade someone if they truly believe that Noah was real.
I don't think he was.
We have no evidence for it.
Genesis is a baby compared to Sumerian literature.
I love that.
It's just there's there's zero evidence even like and then the problem is that with people who think that nothing I can say will change their minds because they think that the Hebrew Bible is divinely inspired.
So it doesn't matter that there's no other evidence.
The Bible is all the evidence they need because it came directly from God.
Like, no, nothing I can present is going is going to change someone's minds on that.
I think they're wrong.
I think that's a really boring way of looking at it.
And I am still a Christian, so you can you can hold a religious conviction and still see this as a beautiful, amazing piece of literature.
Literature made by humans based on the world's oldest literary tradition.
And if that's not spectacularly amazing, I really don't know what is.
Yeah, I got to turn this to you for a second here, Josh, because we did a little testimony that we never went and told the world yet it will come.
And trust me, it's it's coming.
But you came into a seriologist to become a seriologist to learn these languages to like vindicate and validate your faith and to kind of withhold that.
No, it really is a true story.
There's a worldwide flood and no, this didn't borrow from that earlier stuff.
So coming from that angle, you know why I'm asking that question.
And we see it all the time online and Megan hit the nail on the head.
Is there anything you would maybe add, maybe a few cherries on top of what Megan said there to nail this down.
Coming from a fundamentalist perspective, you get educated.
Your whole world starts to crumble.
What would what would you say to some of the things I'm asking?
Yeah, I mean, I think that Megan is correct that all things considered.
If you believe that a text is divinely inspired and an errant.
Again, all things considered.
That's just it doesn't matter what somebody else says.
Yeah.
For me and for many others that I know, the way that people have sort of broken free of that mindset is unfortunately having to be surrounded by
very often surrounded by people that are very educated that you trust.
It's kind of funny you said unfortunate because what you're saying is that's not common and I wish it was more common.
Yeah.
But yeah, that's my interpretation of your unfortunate.
So what what ends up happening, I think, is that you'll say to someone, for example, I was in a conversation several weeks ago, and I brought up the thing that I brought up tonight that, you know, I'm not a geologist.
So I can't speak to the evidence.
But I can say from an archaeological standpoint, a textual standpoint, material culture is an unbroken tradition in Mesopotamia, right on through the third millennium.
Right.
We can like go to museums and look at the shit.
And so if you're going to argue that the entire world was flooded.
That don't make no sense.
Right.
Because I mean, like, how, how do we, how do we go from eight people in like 2400 right to the Sargonic Empire in 2350.
Like that just doesn't, of course.
So the, you know, that's a real problem.
And you recognize these things, right?
Because from an evangelical standpoint, what, you know, what people do with that information is, yeah, of course, of course, if you go to Trinity Seminary, you know, my friend Caleb, like he'll say very, very quickly, of course, this is a mythological text,
you know, it's doing something different.
But the reason that those sorts of things develop is because the evidence, as we've talked about so many times before, Derek, the evidence butts up against this, you know, more, more literal interpretation of the text.
And so, you know, the big example, I'll be quiet, but the big example that you and I have discussed before that Ron Hendle pointed out.
And William Dever and so many others is, you know, the number of 600,000 fighting men in Exodus 1237, right?
Well, for 2000 years, you know, two and a half million people leaving in the Exodus, right?
Well, then it becomes clear from Egyptologists that New Kingdom Egypt can't support that, right?
There's only that many people in all of Egypt.
And so, the response from the evangelical community is quite often almost always not to say, oh, the text got that wrong, right?
Instead, it's to say, 1000 must mean something else here, right?
This Hebrew word LF, it must mean like military unit, because it can mean that over in this other context.
So that must be what it means here, because the text can't be wrong, right?
It can't be. It's an errant.
And I think those are the types of things that it's good that we see that shift.
I'm glad in the same way that I'm glad when people say, well, this can't be real slavery, you know, in Leviticus 25.
This has to be something else because slavery's wrong.
I would much rather hear that, right, as we always talk about then.
Well, maybe slavery's not so bad then.
I wish more people followed what Megan's suggesting and just finding a way to exit that bubble that you and me were in, Josh.
So it's interesting to see, it sounds to me like Megan, you've never been a fundamentalist, your entire existence.
Josh and I have spoken about this many times.
I think that is one of the more impertinent reasons why going to grad school didn't shake any faith that I have.
To the extent that it shook his, I was never taught that the Bible was facts or divinely inspired.
Noah was always a mythological figure to me.
So coming to grad school and learning, oh, the exodus didn't really happen.
Okay, I didn't think it did.
I didn't have that, that realization that I think a lot of people raised evangelical seem to have when they start getting into this area of ancient history.
Sorry, again, I committed a sin and took us off track here.
I just thought, why not?
The final thing I'd like to do, because I don't want to keep you too, too long.
I'm going to just say that all humanity is going to get destroyed if you don't buy a copy of the new book.
Flood is just coming.
Appease the gods, then we'll be fine.
Appease the gods, buy the book, we'll be fine.
Right, I'm talking to the fence.
I'm Daniel writing on the wall here for everybody.
The flood will come if you don't get the book.
Honestly, though, I'm a shameless plug and everyone who watches this channel knows.
If you can't afford it, I understand.
It's about supporting the scholarship.
It's about supporting to keep education getting there, to do more episodes like this so that the scholars can go, hey, I want to go out and give more information, keep educating.
But the final thing I did want to get was the Sumerian flood and who the characters are.
Can you give us a tease at least what is said in the oldest flood written account that we have?
I'm going to let Josh do that.
But before we go on to that, I want to say that if someone does want the book and genuinely cannot afford it, email me, digitalhammerrabby at gmail.com, and we can help.
Okay.
I'd rather people have information.
I got it.
I got it.
Sorry, Josh.
Sorry.
I know I want to hear what you have to say about the flood, but I have to just tell everybody a quick story they don't probably know.
Josh and Megan.
I came to their house and did some recordings a long time ago, a couple times.
I've shown up at their house and said, hey, can you take this homeless beggar and clean them up?
And of course they said, you're welcome.
And then I left three days later because, you know, I'm that bad.
But the point is, I was, you know, walking downstairs with him to get a coffee and notice they had this nice Mac computer.
And I was like, hey, that's a bigger version of what I already have.
And it's got more memory.
Is there any way I can buy this from you guys since you don't use it?
Because Josh implied, like he said several times, we don't even use this down in your collective dust.
And I was like, what if I could buy this from y'all?
I'd love to get this Mac.
This is beautiful.
And yeah, I'll ask us Megan how much, you know, and so we go upstairs.
We keep recording and he goes up and it comes back and he's, Megan, Megan's not going to sell it.
She's not selling it to you.
I'm like, oh, okay, no biggie.
It didn't hurt my feelings, but, you know, it sucks to hear that I can't get this amazing Mac.
Yet she wants to give it to you.
And I'm just like, what?
What do you mean, like give to me?
That's thousands of dollars.
You know, the computer brand is expensive.
No, Megan wants to give.
And that something about you and Megan, right, are both y'all are givers.
You want to help.
You literally are just amazing human beings on a real level.
And I'm going to do it.
Who cares?
This computer is the one I'm using.
I think, I think you have video cables come out.
Oh, did I unplug it?
It's the gods.
It will stop.
It's definitely a little here.
I will recite a liturgy.
I'm using the dang thing.
Oh, I didn't plug the power to the battery.
That's why.
Okay.
That was it.
You see me again.
Okay.
Yeah, we got you.
This is, this is the Mac.
I should have just turned it.
There you go.
There's the Mac.
So there's the Mac.
So anyway, I just felt obligated to do that to point out if people
really are struggling and you're having a hard time and you really do
want to read something.
They much right that you do that and reach out and make contact.
So I know that for fact, I don't know why I had to tell you that story,
but I just didn't.
So.
And sorry.
We get asked semi regularly if you can buy the book anywhere that is
not Amazon.
Yes.
We have an Etsy store.
It's Etsy.com forward slash shop.
Forward slash qnair formations.
What did I do?
They're all in there as well.
Okay.
Let me pop that up.
Well, can you see your here this?
Can you see it?
Yep.
All right.
It's under merchandise.
Correct.
It should be.
There might be a, it might be a link.
I think it was something I could have swore.
I've gone through your website.
So I did change it recently.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
I could have swore.
I have it.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, send me that link after I'll make sure that it's in the
description.
For sure.
But this is sorry.
I've got it.
Okay.
Perfect.
This is it.
You've got Etsy.com forward slash shop would slash qnair formations.
And it's got all of the books, including digital downloads for
those who prefer downloads rather than physical copies.
What's that down there at the bottom?
I make geeky qnair form stuff as well.
This is coming.
You know, someone's going to want to get like little Sumerian
Acadian.
What is that?
Sumerian, right?
Yep.
Wow.
Yeah.
Those are all Sumerian.
She, she put those together because they're at a level that if you
finish book one, you're able to read them.
You can absolutely read those.
Oh, wow.
So it's, it is kind of cool to like have a puzzle or something that,
um, you know, you can be like, tell your friends like, Oh yeah,
what that says is Shulgi, the great King, you know, dedicated this
object.
Well, thank you for that.
And then Sumerian flight.
And maybe we can do a few supers.
Absolutely.
Please.
So, you know, it's a very fragmentary text.
Um, so it's, it's difficult to know, um, specifically what's
missing.
Jakobson, Seville, these guys have, have done editions of the
text.
I know somebody's done it more recently, but, um, but you know,
you have sort of a lot of the major components that you see,
right?
You have a creation, a creation part for humanity.
You have like the division of the cities amongst the gods.
Again, it's a concept that gets picked up in the Hebrew Bible as
well.
Deuteronomy 32, Psalm 89 or Psalm 82.
Um, but, uh, so then you, you have, uh, you know, the oath being
sworn, uh, that, you know, Aya or Enki's not going to go telling,
uh, humanity.
And then, of course, he goes and tells Zidra, the, the Noah
character of the,
So the same characters are in it though.
Aya, Enki.
Yeah.
And then the, so Atrahasis is the one who is exceedingly wise and
Acadian.
Zidra.
Zidra.
Me.
Z is life.
Um, uh, U4 is, uh, like time or day or whatever.
And then suit three is, uh, or sutra is, um, the adjective for
like plank feet to be long.
So they're the same character that just different names.
Yeah.
Okay.
Right.
That's right.
Sorry.
Um, uh, yes.
Uh, sorry.
Would you say, I mean, like, oh yeah, this was right.
And then the, the flood comes, you have the animals, you know,
that go on board and then they disembark sacrifice.
You have, uh, Enlo coming and finding out what's happened.
So a lot of the, the themes, um, uh, or the, the major
components of the story are present.
And this is something actually, uh, I'll land with this.
Excuse me.
This is something that was pointed out recently by, I think it's
William Lane Craig.
There are always people trying to make these arguments, uh, that,
oh, well, you know, the, the Bible is actually the source.
Right.
And one of the things that he's pointing out is, um, well,
you don't have the birds until like we don't, we don't have,
uh, um, a manuscript from the second millennium,
Acadian story that preserves the birds.
And that's one of the places that's like the strongest connection
that you see, uh, between the, the Acadian, uh, story and get
tablet 12, um, and the Hebrew Bible.
And he's like, so you, we only have it in the new Assyrian
period, which is like, you know, eighth, seventh century.
And it's like, yeah.
And like, um, if you think that the Hebrew Bible flood story is
predating, was that what you, is that the argument that the
whole, the whole fucking flood story that goes back, but this
one part, since we don't see in a manuscript, this one part
preserved, it must be that the Hebrew Bible is the source for
all of it. It's just, it's just such a weird, it's just such a
weird argument. It makes me want to say, please stay in your
lane, senior Craig, but, um, I think that's an interesting
point because if there is no birds, let's say in the earlier
ones, and then it is a relevant point of this Neo Assyrian
empire, Neo Assyrian mythology here. Um, well, you know, the
Assyrians kind of conquered Israel and like, you know, just
kind of made impact on these people. And the book of Deuteronomy
is like kind of based on, you know, that like these are
had in succession treaty. Like, yeah, it's, it's, you know,
and your, your guys' name is kind of something to do with
Hammurabi. I don't know why, but, you know, so let's do some
super chats and then I want to make sure, I want to, I voted,
I made my vote different, um, to make, you know, give people's
hey, have you got the book? Have you got the book? Vote in the
the vote thing? There's a hundred and five votes right here.
Um, and if you just purchased the book, will you drop a comment?
Let us know because I'm curious to hear how many people watching
this stuff actually are following through and participating in
helping the academics, but also wanting to educate themselves.
I love seeing a comment of I just got the book. This is,
I'm excited to see where this goes and those type of things.
So interested to see what she said. Um, Mark Rothen Bueller,
forgive me if I butchered that. You know, before the show is over,
we're going to need a Dr. Josh imitation of Ken Hovind talking
about these earlier than Noah flood stories. Can you go get
Kent? Uh, yeah, he's, uh, he's just going to see if he's, uh,
available. Okay. Take a minute or two. He's still living with
y'all. He comes and goes. Yeah. Y'all are too friendly. I tell
you, he drinks all the coffee. So, okay, okay. He leaves my tea
alone. So I'm, I'm okay, but, um, Josh does occasionally wake
up to find that all the coffee's gone. Oh my gosh. Very, very
inconsiderate. It's just, and with a house guest, like you
expect maybe they let you know that you, they've drunk all
your coffee so that you can go and get some more. No, you just
find out and it's Ken's. You have, you really, you have to
sell someone. Absolutely. You have to sell someone. I think
he's just coming. Oh, is he? Okay. Yeah. Uh-oh. He's
actually going to present, give us his presence. This is
interesting. I think we got him out of bed. It's taking a
minute. Okay. Okay. That what's, what's the issue here?
You guys need me to come and, and whack on some atheists.
I would really rather you didn't. They're asking, they're
asking about the floods. Hey, how are you guys doing? I
Ken Hoven here. I taught high school science for 15 years
and yeah, some, I'm here to help you, you, you atheists
with all your problems. Okay. So, what can I do for you?
You want to know about the flood? I'll tell you about the flood.
Yeah. So, of course, we know that water rained down on the
otters. Okay. And, and of course, God and his infinite wisdom
proving that evolution to be the dumbest religion that I
think, I think you could probably figure out. I, I
Derek's over there laughing. He's probably like that godless
engineer in those 15 foot whale penises. Are you pervert or
something there? All right. Look, I don't have time to spend
with you people here. I mean, I'm going to have to go and
read my Bible. As you said, it's a basic instructions
before leaving earth. Okay. So, get my 67 part video series
only 99.95 each. Okay. All right. I'm here to help. Yeah.
But, but he's gone. He's gone. Yeah. Yeah. He does that.
Doesn't he do that? Hopps in and just monologues for a while
and then disappears again. Disconcerting. Very
very disconcerting. You know, I do wonder. I do wonder if
that's how his relationships work, you know? Oh my gosh,
he's too good at that. He's too good at that. I'd say it's
it's the product of a lot of practice, but he's just a
genuinely good mimic. Yeah. The theory of practice goes
into this. Hey, thanks, Kent. Yeah. He's a weird. Yeah, he's
a strange guy. I messed with my bow tie. Did he? He messed
with it when he walked by? Yeah. Geez. I'm kind of, you
know, a lot of people want to hear from him. I'm kind of
sick of him. This is every time it comes on. It's weird.
He, he, well, I mean, it's it's the evangelical Christian
thing. They have some very odd sexual hang-ups sometimes.
Yeah. So. That's weird, but why wells? I don't know.
Those are big. Who knows? Ike, thank you so much for the
Super Sticker. Ike, if you're still here, seriously, thank
you. Appreciate the love. Heng Fashi, who handles
Mesopotamian mythology better? Star Trek writers using
Gilgamesh in NG's Darmuk or Mike Mignola's Hellboy
graphic novels? This is like the perfect moment for you
to plug. I mean, to my eternal shame, I've actually
not read Hellboy. So, I don't know. Yeah, I don't know
either, but. What's my plug in? But the reading podcast.
Reading party podcast? Oh, that's true. So, one of the
other podcasts that I host is called the Reading Party
Podcast. We are a media review podcast and we
concentrate on books, films, TV inspired by the ancient
world. So. On your channel? No, it has its own channel,
which is why no one actually has heard of it. What's
the name of it? I'll try and pull it up. If it's on the
Reading Party podcast, I do it with a classics friend
of mine. But I am adding Hellboy to our reading list
because that would be really, really fun and cool, but I
don't, I don't have an answer. I'm sorry. Reading
party podcast. How? I do love Star Trek though. So, if
I don't remember that particular episode, I know
I've seen it because I've seen all of Next Generation.
Yeah, I've always been a big fan of Dumbledore Solo as
well. So. I'm subscribed already. So, I must have
at some point in the past. I just. We're filming our
second season or recording our second season at the
moment. So, that'll come out in starting January 16th.
So, everything's a bit quiet at the moment, but we're
doing Egyptian mythology and history and all that good
stuff. Thank you so much for that. I appreciate you
answering that. Another one by Heng for thank you. Now
that I'm out of it, it seems easy to see how pre-austeros
what? I guess preposterously. Okay, preposterously
out of line with objective obss of reality, observations
of reality. Observations are. So, I'm wondering if
there's any record or evidence of there being a
Mesopotamian Christopher Hitchens. You ever hear
in like in these ancient anywhere that they're
controversial to the gods or they wouldn't even put
them into? No, the closest you get is accusations
of people not, not listening to the gods or not
doing what the gods are commanding. And that is
often given as a reason for a dynasty failing or a
king being defeated in battle. Oh, well, he, he
didn't follow the omens. He didn't do what the gods
told him to do, but you don't really get a hint of
he didn't believe in the gods. Right. That's an
interesting question, actually a really good question
to kind of think about. But yeah, if there's no
sign of like actual disbelief, that's, that's
something, something that, that has come up a few
times on the podcast with Bart is that ancient
religions weren't so much a matter of belief or
faith. They were a matter of what you did and how
you lived your life and not believing in the gods
just wasn't really a thing. Right. You didn't have
to believe in them. They were just there. And what
mattered was, did you perform sacrifices correctly?
Did you follow omens correctly? Did you live
correctly in the manner that the gods expected you
to? So I don't, I think that's probably why it
took a while for secularism or lack of belief or
atheism or however you want to frame it to really
come into the fore. The point you're making is
that you can think what happens with grace and
faith and Christianity and we start interpreting
the ancient world through that lens and that's a
good point. Yeah, Robin West, Webster, Megan and
Dr. Josh together. Awesome. Derek, thank you,
Robin. Appreciate the super chat there and sorry,
Miss Belger named Eric. I'm so used to it. You
don't have to apologize. Appreciate the support,
but I'm literally used. In fact, I almost start
believing in miracles again when people get it
right. So, you know, I do actually double check
before I message you, am I using the correct
spelling of Derek? Because I will consistently
get it wrong if I don't check. There's D-E-R-R,
there's D-A-R-I-K, there's D-E-R-E, there's so
many. I don't, I don't, I get people adding extra
vowels and an H in mine quite regularly. I'm
like, no, just it. Right. Mine's the boring
spelling. Thank you so much, Robin. And then
for again, is there a follow-up update to
Dr. Bruce Wells and his work on the idea that
Adam and Eve were oblates in a temple garden?
That was fascinating stuff. It is fascinating
and I've looked a couple of times and haven't
seen anything yet. He's getting ready to...
Academic work takes a while to come to
fruition though, so that's not terribly
surprising. He's getting ready to put out one
of the Cambridge companion volumes on law
in the Hebrew Bible. So I don't know if
that's taken up a bunch of his time, but
yeah, I'm, I'm as excited as anybody to
see it. Maybe we can reach back out to him
and get an update. So as we're closing out,
I'm going to check and see what the poll
looks like. How many of you have buckled
during the stream and decided, I'll get the
book. I'll get the book. Where, where's it
at? Here it is. Learn to read Ancient
Sumerian in Introduction for Complete
Beginners, Volume 2. Let me know if you got
that. I'm going to go ahead and, well,
let's do a countdown. Give people a second
to vote.
I'll be counting or are you counting?
I don't know. That's why I was pausing.
I was kind of curious to know, should,
should I do it or should I do like a five
second one?
You do it because I don't want to mess it up.
I don't know how to count because I don't
math good. Right, right.
Hold on. Can you count in Sumerian?
Do you know how to pronounce it?
Let's see.
If I get the book up, then yes.
I know pronunciation is kind of a
difficult one.
I can do it.
I wonder if we know exactly how they
pronounce it.
So pronunciation is a whole different
question. I do actually have an interview
on the channel going into how we know
what we know about the pronunciation of
Sumerian. The answer is we're relatively
certain on some things, not so much on
the bilingual texts that give us
Akkadian and Sumerian
together. So you get
the pronunciation of the Akkadian
and we know Akkadian pronunciation
because it's a submitted language and
very closely related to Hebrew and
Aramaic and all that kind of thing.
So very quick answer.
Much more complicated than that.
And while you're
while you're getting the, I just do
five up like five seconds.
No, but I am the
atheist preacher, sell, sell, sell.
You bet your ass.
And I'll tell you why. I know
how to run a business and I know exactly
how to help popularize.
And you can ask any academic
why do they come to midfusion? I'm a
shameless plug and the reason I have no shame
is because I know what
I'm doing is going to be for the betterment
of educating and helping more
people. So people who can't do
it, please don't feel obligated.
If you can help out,
awesome. That's the way I look
at it. So you're absolutely
right, Baruch. I have no shame
in my game and it's why we're successful
in helping more academics
want to popularize the ideas
that they learn in academia
for general audiences
and they want to take that stuff mainstream.
So, you know, anyway.
Okay. I have the numbers if you want to
count down. Oh, you want me to do it?
Oh, no, I was going to do it for you.
Okay. So I'll do just
one.
In Sumerian?
Yeah, why not? Okay.
So one dish.
Min. Yeah, min.
Three.
Four.
Limu.
Five. Yeah.
Okay, okay.
Now we have to check, right? Now we have to check.
I made you do the countdown.
Okay.
Let me stop the poll
and let's see how many people voted.
There was
201 votes.
I think that's pretty good.
No, no, no. That was the previous one.
Here it is. Sorry. 125 votes.
Apology. Good idea.
I will. 75%
of people said, hey, I will
get the book and 23%
said, of course.
Nice. So thank you.
Thank you. Yeah.
It always makes the scholars feel good too.
That's another reason I like to help.
I think
academics are very bad at both
communicating their work to people
who are not academics and then
also telling people to go and buy their books
because it feels
weird.
It feels very weird.
But we
both believe very heavily in what we're doing
and
that's why we're here, really.
That's why I have to be the guy
that's why we have a Derek.
Right. I can't do it. Josh can't do it.
I'm not offended by it because
I'm just, I don't know.
I don't feel like,
I don't know. I guess I'd
feel a certain way when people make those comments
that it's like, yeah, I am.
That's what I do.
If you didn't believe in or find
value in the thing that you're selling,
I think that's a very different
thing.
I think if it's something that you actually think,
this is worth publicizing.
This is something that people will be interested
in and find value in. I think that's different.
Yeah.
Complete transparency is
all used in affiliate link through Amazon
where they give me chump
change.
Literally, for every book, anyone who ever
purchases anything from the scholars,
it helps gas by the end of the month
or the car.
But it literally only does that.
My point is, it's really
the value of seeing that the scholars
feel appreciated
and feeling like, I didn't do this in vain.
I didn't do this where
nobody's reading my stuff, because the work
that goes into even my scripts, which are
8,000,
15,000 words that I
craft and script myself,
you're doing this at 150,000,
250,000 words
and what, so
50 to 150 people
read it? Are you kidding me?
No. I know the kind of work that you're
going into is beyond my
imagination with the scripts that
I'm producing just based on other
academics' works to create these documentaries
and stuff. And that's why there's
just so much that I know
I have no shame in any of it.
We both really appreciate it
very much. Thank you.
Yeah. No, thank you for being great scholars
and giving us your time and coming out here.
We did get a few supers at the last
second here just saying, I find
Gilgamesh's flood story more interesting, fear of
death, horror, if it meant immortality,
we all love that.
Following the letter rather than the spirit,
remorse from lying,
NOAA, O-T-O-A... On the other hand.
Huh? On the other hand.
On the other hand, don't free
will wrong.
Don't
you use your free will
in an inappropriate
manner? Oh.
Thank you, Jeffrey, for the super and then
liberal
conspiracy with the 6XXX.
Thanks, Kent,
for straightening out these godless heathens.
Someone has to. Somebody's
got to do it. This is why we keep them in the basement.
And you
drink your coffee. You got to do something about that.
Yeah, I'm telling you. Thanks for your coffee.
I love you, both of you.
Let's do this again.
By the way, shameless plug,
get the books, all that stuff, but we're also
working on some documentaries
and this will be also another shameless plug
to promote the work
of Dr. Joshua Bowen and Megan
Lewis. And it is
just really fun making these documentaries
because they're really pretty and put a lot of work into them.
So stay tuned for more of that. We got one on
Gilgamesh. We're working on
question mark on when that might be done,
but others we'll be working on as well.
So any final words
from y'all? Like anything? No, just thank everybody
for watching. It was a lot of fun.
Masses of fun.
Thank you. Thank you. I'm not even going to do
an outro. They're too cool.
They're too cool for school for the outro.
Oh, gosh, last minute.
Hi, Derek. Are you aware of the channel
of the channel exploring the Quran and the Bible?
Yes, I am. It's a great channel very much
in the spirit of your own. Yeah,
scholar, great scholar interviewing
Muslim academics
or Islamic scholars, sorry, because
they're not all Muslim and doing it from
a critical standpoint. So thank you.
Stop scamming in. I really appreciate it.
I've interviewed him, by the way, the host
of that channel. But thank you.
Love y'all and have a good night on the east
coast. I know it's late over there. Thank you.
