MythVision is going to Israel.
I've been requested to lead a tour not only in the Dead Sea, Jerusalem, but also in the
north of the Galilee.
We're going to be going to the locations not only that we discovered the Dead Sea Scrolls
which are the oldest papyri animal skin fragments that have anything of the Bible written on
them.
This is the earliest material evidence of the Bible in history and we're going to be
entering several of those caves going off the beaten path that all of the other tours
usually do.
Skeptics and scholars expedition, you don't want to miss it.
We're not going to go dupe you into a fourth century supposed empty tomb or a supposed
place Jesus went to.
This is critical scholarship and we're going to the places that scholars would say.
If there was a historical Jesus, this is where he would have gone and this is what would
have happened according to our testimony we have in the Gospels.
So I'm hoping everybody tuning in now will go and join us.
This is literally a once in a lifetime deal.
Dr. Kip Davis, Dr. Matthew Munger are both Dead Sea Scrolls scholars.
They know their stuff.
They're going to be touring us down in the Kumeran section.
We'll be going to Aingeti, we'll be going to Masada.
These are places where we discovered the scrolls and also in Kumeran.
I know you don't want to miss this.
You'll be able to meet us in person, myth vision, I'll have Gnostic and form it there.
Ross Nichols who's like a modern day treasure hunter.
Trust me, you don't want to miss that guy.
He's going to be taking you down serious deep dives in Jerusalem that most people don't
know about.
Our last experience was life changing and I'm hoping to see many people go, I'll be
leading the tour.
It will be documented.
We're recording.
So you can get a lot of one-on-one time with some of your favorite people.
I'm hoping to see you there.
Let's discuss some of the stuff that we're going to be going into.
The tour starts with us landing in Israel, driving a comfortable bus ride down to the
Dead Sea.
We're going to see all the surrounding area in the desert like an ancient Israelite wood.
That night we're going to decompress, try to catch up from the flight and the next morning
we're heading to Masada, the last stand where the Jews stood against the Romans and they
literally stayed till they died as recorded in Josephus.
We're going to see Herod's palace on the top and several of the interesting archaeological
sites that are top Masada, imagining seeing the old camps from the Romans that actually
waited for them to thirst and hunger to death and they ended up destroying and killing those
on the top or they committed suicide.
Very difficult to know what ultimately happened but we did find 14 scrolls or portions of
14 scrolls atop Masada, biblical sectarian apocryphal, I mean these people seem to have
been very apocalyptic type.
After we leave Masada, we're going to Ingeti.
You're going to be able to see the Oasis teaming with local wildlife adorned with tropical
foliage.
You're going to have an enjoyable walk.
Seeing this right here in the midst of all of this desert land is a very interesting experience.
We'll go back to our hotels.
You can enjoy the spas, the shopping, everything, float in the Dead Sea.
Trust me, you're going to want to remember this one forever because you're going to be
at the lowest point on planet earth.
I hope you're prepared for that.
In the Dead Sea, with all the minerals floating, try swimming to the bottom and see how long
you can stay down there.
It's your buoyancy.
You're just going to go straight to the top.
It's an amazing sight and then looking at the night sky from the desert where the ancient
Israelites would have.
The next morning we head to the Kumran National Park.
We're going to enjoy seeing where the Kumran community was, where their dead were buried,
how they set up shop in the desert.
This was a wilderness experience for them in the ancient world, a very religious one
for them.
This is where many of the caves that we discovered, most of our fragments of the Dead Sea Scrolls
are at.
Cave 4, Cave 11, several other caves are right here in this vicinity.
We're actually going to go down the street and enter into a couple of those caves.
All of this will be recorded.
We're going to have a memory to be able to take back that we've never forgot.
You're going to meet all of us.
Let's have a blast while we're here.
But that same day, we're going to leave the Kumran National Park and head to Jerusalem
to go to the Israel Museum.
Before we hit the Israel Museum, we want to check the Mount of Olives out and view Jerusalem
where the ancient temple would have stood.
That same place where Jesus would have probably set foot with his disciples as the Gospels
record and he says, you see these stones, you see these temples, well, looking off from
the Mount of Olives as Matthew 24 has, this is going to be destroyed.
I think it was written after the fact we're going to do that as scholars and skeptics
and such, but you're going to be able to see the sites what it would have been like in
the ancient world to view this complex.
Then we're going to the actual museum, Israel Museum, where they housed the Dead Sea Scrolls,
the Book of the Shrine, and all of the various other archaeological finds about Israel that
we can discover in that museum.
That museum will be open late that night, which is why this works perfectly for this
tour.
All along this tour being guided by me, you're going to have Kip Davis and Matthew Munger
leading us in the Dead Sea Scroll areas, educating us on what we can know and experience from
their expertise.
Once we leave the Israel Museum that night, you go back to your comfy hotels in Jerusalem
and relax because the next morning we're waking up early and we're heading to the Temple Mount.
After we leave Jerusalem, because we'll be there for three days, you'll have time to
explore the old city.
You'll see the Welling Wall, where Jews who nod as they pray against that wall are leaning
left.
Once we go up on the Temple Mount and I show you the big dome of the Rock is, you're going
to see a little place where the Holy of Holies is supposedly was located and Jews are tilting
their head as they're down there at the Welling Wall.
You'll see down below, getting there in person changes your perspective.
You'll see they're tilting their head towards that Holy of Holies.
At least the Jews that know what they're doing.
We'll be exiting there.
Once we leave that location and we have fun in Jerusalem, you explore the old city, go
down there, go shop, go haggle with the Arabs, then go haggle with the Christians.
Have fun, enjoy it, and then we're doing a haunted Valley of Hinnom tour led by yours truly.
Gnostic informant will be helping me as well as Ross Nichols.
You don't want to miss that tour.
We're going into Gehenna.
Who doesn't want to go to hell with me?
Come on.
We're going down to the Lake of Fire.
We're going to be touring that at night like a haunted tour because there's a lot of history
there.
Lots of dead bodies were probably thrown outside of the city walls after the Jerusalem war
or if you will 70 AD with Rome.
Day five, early bird gets the worm.
We're tracking the scrolls or independent explorations.
So you have two options.
One, you go with Dr. Kip Davis and Matthew Munger and you check out the tour finding
the Dead Sea Scrolls and immerse yourself in that extraordinary journey of the Dead
Sea Scrolls.
Visit the site where their story began, Cando Shop and Bethlehem, the very place where the
Bedouin sold their first finds of the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Continue this narrative exploration at St. Mark's Monastery where more of the scrolls
were clandestinely kept and later the Albright Institute.
The option number two for those who joined the tourist independent exploration or guided
tour of hidden Jerusalem gems with Ross K. Nichols.
He is going to take you on various sites if you want to go down into David City.
You want to go see what's going on with Hezekiah's Tunnel, the Hinnom Tunnel.
You don't want to miss this.
This is going to be a lifetime experience you're going to take back forever.
We're going to leave and head north to the Lake of Galilee, Lake Tiberius, Sea of Galilee.
Whatever you want to call it, we'll be seeing a few sites on the way up there.
I'm not sure.
100% if we're going to see the Mount Ebal curse tablet would have been located, but
I know we're going to see a few ancient Israelite archaeological sites as we head up to that
lake.
We're going to be staying up there at Lake Tiberius for three days.
The Gospel of Mark, our earliest Gospel, has Jesus roaming around, right there around
that lake at all the synagogues, debating other rabbis.
Peter's house was right there in Capernaum.
All of these sites, archaeologically, we've discovered.
We're going to go right there on the lake, seeing all these different sites.
We're going to be right there in the region of Caesarea Philippi, checking that out before
we hit a Druze restaurant, and that's the same place where Jesus is standing there saying
to his disciples, who do men say that I am?
Now, when you're reading that in a book, a Bible, that carries theological significance.
Is he saying he's the Trinity?
Is he saying he's literally God equal with the Father?
What's he saying?
But then when you actually stand in the archaeological sites where Herod built a temple to Caesar
Augustus, the temple of Pan is right there.
The portal into the underworld to hell, to Hades, is right there.
And then you stand there and you imagine Jesus standing there amongst all these demigods,
other claimants to being divine, and they're all saying, look at me, worship me, see me
as a God.
And then Jesus says, whether he actually said this or not in real life, who do men say that
I am standing in this area, almost like a gangster on a new block?
And he says, hey, who do men say that I am?
It brings a whole different depth to the meaning of him asking that question on those sites.
Everything has changed my perspective there.
We will literally take a boat ride on the lake, the same lake that Jesus supposedly calmed
the storm, and had the divine powers to do so.
We're not talking about all the other deities that have done such things, or even Buddha.
Don't mind Jesus.
We're taking this skeptical scholarly approach, three days up there, seeing several different
sites.
Then as we leave, we're going to be passing by Sephiroth, the neighboring town to Nazareth.
You can literally see Nazareth in eye distance.
Sephiroth was a very well known city at that time.
Nazareth was nothing, small little hick town.
But Sephiroth was huge.
It was a big, big deal in the first century around the time that Jesus was on the scene.
Being born and probably got a lot of labor over in Sephiroth.
We will see some of the sites, the stones that were laid and such.
And you have to ask yourself the question, did Jesus touch some of these stones?
Did he play as a tecton?
Some scholars think it might be a stone mason, not just some wood carpenter, but a stone mason
building some of this city?
I don't know.
It's really interesting the synagogues that we'll see in those locations with their zodiac
signs and some part Greek, part Hebrew inscriptions that are on the ground.
You don't want to miss it.
After we leave Sephiroth, we'll probably hit Megiddo and then we will hit Caesarea Meritima.
That's where Herod built a massive, massive structure for Caesar Augustus.
That is such a huge complex.
They have horse racing.
They have all sorts of stuff.
You can see the remnants of ancient spa baths that they would have had from that time period
in the first century.
Really mind boggling when you go and see how much Herod actually built in this time.
And he devoted himself completely to Caesar Augustus after his political, original political
alliances were no longer on the scene.
You want to learn a lot of history?
You want to bring back some memories?
You want to have an experience you've never had while MythVision is going and leading
a tour?
I hope you will join us as Neil from Gnostic Informant, Kip Davis, Matthew Munger, Ross
Nichols and several of the people you probably see that are always in the live chat supporting
what we're doing here.
We're going to be there.
Go to MythVisionTour.com.
You can get a lot more of the details and sites that we're actually going to explore
there.
You don't want to miss it.
It's going to be a game changer unlike anything you've ever seen before.
Why not?
Everyone goes over there for the holy tours and they go for their faith and such.
I tell you, as someone who's skeptical, it brought a lot more value into the research
that we do in understanding it.
From more of a humanist, secular point of view, approaching this with historical methodology,
it still doesn't take away the wonder and awe and story that we are reading and learning
about in our Bibles.
So please check it out.
Let me know if you do.
All the information you need will be on the website.
So I'll see you there.
Sign up.
Early Bird gets the best seats on the bus and you're not going to want to miss this intellectual
adventure.
This is going to be a life-changing experience.
You can guarantee that.
www.mythvisiontour.com.
When you go to the webpage, if you want to dive deeper into seeing the itinerary where
we're going, what we're doing and the options, you click right here and it'll download the
itinerary for you to see.
You go to register here.
If you don't mind going in a double with someone or if you're coming with someone, but if
you're wanting a single room, you have a single supplement option, you have to click there,
then you register.
Once you go to register, you fill out the information here and you register.
If you have any questions, you can call the number in the upper right-hand corner of the
website and they'll help you out.
I can't wait to lead this tour with you.
