What's up everybody, Derek Lambert, MythVision podcast.
I hope everybody's doing well in the chat
and the title, We Need to Talk, right?
I know that title will grab your attention.
What's the problem?
Of course, I think everybody felt their mother or father
in a way saying like, we need to talk.
Like there's a problem.
I don't wanna scare anybody.
There is no problem.
I wanna just say that up front.
We haven't talked in a long time.
We need to talk.
There's so much that has gone on
since I've sat here and hung out with MythVision audience
and just checking in with you
and discussing my topics I'm working on,
documentaries that I'm doing, upcoming projects.
I mean, Dennis McDonald's flying in tonight.
He's coming to my house, Mikasa.
And we're doing stuff on Q and interviews
to discuss his upcoming books.
I wanna do a lot more of this scholarly material
that I've once done along with my documentaries.
I don't wanna give up that inspiration
of academic pursuit and getting
to the cutting edge critical scholarship.
So just to rest your fears at ease.
I am totally fine working out and trying to get in shape
and trying to take care of my mental health and stuff
as someone who works full time online.
It's a very important part of the process that I take.
I wanna have two days with the Queen of MythVision
and we go and we try to get our minds right
and focus on what's most important in our kids
and ourselves and things like that.
And so I just wanted to touch base with you guys
and just have fun and discuss and take questions
if you have any also ideas, things like that.
There's a lot that's been on my heart lately.
I've been watching this show, The Vikings again.
For those of you who ever watched Vikings Valhalla,
there, it's an awesome show.
It takes you Ragnoloth Brook
and then he's got his monk friend.
And you could see his kind of connections to this monk
inspire him to dive further into this guy's faith
and then vice versa into these other gods,
Odin and Thor and things like that.
And sometimes I wonder if I'm too tough
or being overly cynical to those who hold to faith.
And I don't mean to, but I do mean to.
Like, I don't know, I should probably make a poll
just to get your ideas of what you perceive of me
because sometimes we go about our lives
and never take a moment to see ourselves in the mirror.
And I'm sure we'll get various different opinions
on that poll of what I do, how I do things.
One person said in the chat,
we need to talk about these clickbait titles.
And I've had several people who have commented
on my documentaries with the criticism of,
come on, man, I mean, what's next?
You won't know anything if you don't watch this video.
I mean, any YouTuber will tell you,
it's kind of the game that you have to come up
with catchy grabby titles to compete.
But the other thing is I try to make them
as close as I can to the facts of what I'm bringing
because for me, as someone who's been digging
into this stuff for five years,
it's still mind-blowing to me how much I'm learning
and how much I had no freaking clue about.
No pastor ever told me, no church even hinted
that these things were a real serious observation
of scholars, academics in the world.
In fact, we're kind of told,
stay away from those liberal academics,
those liberal scholars.
And I did that, I did just that.
I insulated myself with reading materials
that were purely reformed Calvinistic
and stayed within my tradition
and never really wanted to second guess that.
I'd be willing to doubt other doctrines
as long as the person who gave me the information
was spoon feeding it as a Christian.
Like I really had that kind of fundamentalist mindset
for the longest.
So let me check you out in the chat,
say hey to everybody and give you a shout out and whatnot
just for being here, for being an awesome person
and showing up today, I really appreciate that.
And then let's have some fun
and talk about what we wanna talk about.
Pragmatic crystal, I don't tell you this enough
but you're always here and you seriously have my back.
And I don't even ask, I've never wrote music.
Can you come into my chats and like,
can you help people be reminded to like the videos
or to share the content or to subscribe to the channel?
I never asked you once and you've always done this.
So one day you and me need to link up off the live stream
and obviously I'm seriously thankful for that.
So Paul said, let's talk about clickbait titles.
To sum that up and you can critique,
you can give me questions,
I'm curious to hear what you all have to say.
But in reality, if you go look at my videos,
if you notice something's working and it's successful
and when I say successful,
I'm saying from a 15,000 view video,
that helps you get this information out.
Let me tell you my little personal bias here.
I, Derek Lambert, I don't know if that'd be a bias,
but I, Derek Lambert, want to hit the moon.
I wanna get as many people on planet Earth
to get into this material,
to pay attention to what academics are saying
because I know that most people on planet Earth
have no clue.
So how do I get millions of views versus 15,000?
Going from a title to historical evidence
pertaining to the historical Jesus
or analyzing the critiques of such and such.
Those are scholarly, they do something.
But if you say something like,
they're hiding this from you
and don't want you to know the truth.
That's not universally true,
but there are seriously people
who know this material
and do not want their congregations to know
or do not want people to investigate them
for fear of falling away from their faith
or a fear of leaving their denomination
and going to something else or the list can go on.
So which one grabs your attention more?
Maybe more book smart individuals who are educated
like the professional style.
But I recognize numbers don't lie.
So when you title one like this
and it gets 15,000 views
and you do the same kind of material here
and you title it sensational
and it gets half a million,
I hope my audience and people who appreciate
the knowledge I'm spreading
would actually go, we got your back.
We understand, you have to compete.
And in order to get this information out there,
gotta do what you gotta do.
As long as the title is relevant to the subject matter
and I'm not deceiving you like, check out this hot babe.
And then next thing you know,
you turn on and it's that song where they're dancing.
I'm teasing because I've seen videos like that
in the past on YouTube.
You're not getting like tricked.
This is really based on some good stuff.
So there you have it.
I figure I'd address it, it might as well, right?
356 people in the chat, hit that like button fam.
Hit that like button.
Let's see, I got Stephen Woodford here private messaging me
harassing me while I'm streaming.
Stephen, if you're in here, man, you know, we have to talk.
And people are asking, are you okay, Derek?
Some days, some days I'm stressed out.
I got all sorts of stuff on my plate.
I've got things I wanna accomplish.
We've got a lot that we're aiming for
and trying to hit goals this year
to keep growing this thing
and making education like critical scholarship more popular.
That is our goal.
The Tim, you know, what's up?
John Dutchman, good to see you.
Gunblade, James interviews.
Captain Dadpool called him yesterday and said,
all right, I got a choice between two video games.
If I'm gonna like vent and get away from the game,
from working, which two games?
God of War, Ragnarok or Last of Us 2.
Those are the two.
And he's like, oh my gosh, bro.
God of War will last longer.
So I went with God of War.
AR, what's up in the chat?
Scroll it down, Mark Andrew DeMarist.
Thank you for being here.
Baron, Barron, forgive me if I butchered that.
And thanks for being a member.
Dan Johnson, Coltie Talk, Chet, Mandy.
Jan on the Facebook side, I'm on both.
I stream on both platforms for those who don't know.
A non-lab, quack shot.
Tom, good to see you here.
Just trying to show everybody some love here.
Is it Deus?
Deus?
Dava?
Forgive me, good to see you here.
Moonshoes, Silph, starving fat guy.
Maya, oopsie doopey.
Let me see this question for one second.
Please analyze Christianity
as it relates to the way American evangelicals
interpret the Bible.
How did we get to this point?
Why so insular and hypocritical?
That's a really complicated question.
I don't know if I could answer all of that at once.
I can only speak from my own experience too
on how I got into Christianity
and then being able to explain like
what I was doing in my mind.
It was very, it was living a contradictory
kind of experience of life.
What came totally natural,
kind of like Paul describes where he's like,
what I don't want to do, I do in Roman seven.
So like you're kind of the version I came from
kind of being taught to hate the flesh,
hate this world and love the one to come,
to love the spirit and not the flesh.
It's very platonic.
Middle Platonism was a relevant philosophy at this time
as well as stoicism.
And this idea of like, this is just,
we're just passing through
and then we're going to our destination
is the kind of model of Protestant Christianity I was in.
And there's a lot of, I would say conservative politics
attached into this for me as I was coming out.
That's why there's so much radical change.
When you de-convert, you start to realize,
I thought my bubble, I thought it was just a belief
and then it starts to become other things in your life
but their way of interpreting the Bible itself
makes no sense to me anymore
because conservative scholarship
and don't listen to those liberal academics
and there's overlap with it being political
but it's also just the idea of we have the correct
interpretation and they want to hold on for dear life.
However, the New Testament authors themselves
took serious liberties with how they fulfilled
in the way they narrated Jesus.
They literally take stuff out of context
that has nothing to do with the original meaning of the words
because they were sacred to them, this literature sacred
and they're utilizing it,
recontextualizing it in a new context,
the way they felt necessary.
And it wouldn't shock me if scholars have actually analyzed
between the gospels if there's a quotation or a usage
where they may not even agree on how they interpret
the usage of that passage.
I know that the apostle Paul did the same thing.
So that whole idea of like ignore those,
we have the correct interpretation yet the very foundation
that they hold to biblical Christianity
and they see the New Testament, these authors are liberal
in their reuse of Old Testament or Hebrew Bible text
really was Septuagint because they weren't as far as we're
aware and as it looks, they're using a Greek translation
of the Bible.
Let me see, gamer time, looking for five things
YouTuber hate, Tom, oh, let's see, JT, Stanway, Derrick,
I love your channel, you have done this community
of great service, please keep up the good work.
I also miss the, I'm your Huckleberry, play for blood.
I love that scene, I love that scene.
Play for blood, I love that scene in the movie Tombstone
for those of you don't know the one with Kurt Russell in it,
that famous scene, I can't think of the actor's name
right now, but he walks out and he's just like,
I'll play for blood.
And he's like, I'm your Huckleberry and that famous scene
is always like, whoa, that was like classic.
I think anybody who is into anything remotely Western
as Western movies, that's like iconic.
Alexander, it's not misleading though,
that's the bad kind of clickbait
where it says one thing, but the video doesn't.
Yeah, that's, I avoid ever doing that.
That is never my intention.
Even though I knew people would say,
we need to talk as a problem, right?
They would go, hey, what's the problem?
And I just thought, we need to talk.
We haven't talked in a while.
So it is a little bit, I knew those words
could be interpreted in another way,
but it would got your attention, right?
God is not the church, I assure you.
Kerry says, I see critical assessment of behaviors
championed by religious ideologies and respect
for their choice of spiritual stance about existence.
All right, we need a show on gangs talking in America.
Let me scroll, oh, I got a super chat.
Uh-oh, let me check that out.
Okay, Vilt Liv, thank you so much for the, what is this?
I don't even know what country this is.
Thank you for the super chat and being a member.
Can you have on Jen Fishburne again?
Maybe one day I could do another talk with her.
I've actually had to block her on Facebook.
Things went south, won't get into all the nitty gritty,
but I've had to block her because politics.
Let's just put it that way.
You know how social media can be.
So I will definitely reconsider and have her join me
to discuss biblical stuff, deconversion stuff,
things like that, because we have some of that in common.
Evangelicals never lie, none in the house, both members.
Thank you for being a member and being here.
Amanda, Stephanie, Jesus is here, everybody.
Be on your best behavior.
Jesus Hernandez, welcome my friend.
Man Bear Pig, good to see you here.
I still wonder how much you are of Man Bear and Pig,
but good to have you here, period.
Stay away if you're a kosher observant.
Chet Gaines, thank you so much for being here.
Barons, I love, I enjoy your videos.
Thank you.
Okay, okay, I am marketing away, absolutely.
So is this Hot Babes, I'm a guy.
Sometimes it's, you know, just being a dude.
Mr. Willis, thank you so much for being here.
Good to see you here.
I know that some of these faces been here for a while.
Kevin, Kevin, yes it is.
I had this, this is my last name, my queen on the top
and my three kings at the bottom and those are my sons.
And then of course I've got my family crest here,
which is incomplete and it's got a Latin phrase at the top
which means we're prepared for anything.
It's more of like a battle crest,
the idea of like preparing for combat or something like that.
My father is a retired green brain,
the special forces and stuff.
And anyway, I was like, you know what?
I got the Lambert crest and I got the Lambert name
and I'm reppin' the name.
So thanks a lot, Kevin, appreciate you for that comment.
Rum runner, to be honest, Lilith was pretty hot.
Okay, we got 495 people here.
Somebody's liking this video.
That's why people are popping in.
So whatever questions you guys have, I'm yours.
I'm just scrolling down here and showing you some love.
There's so many here.
Ember here again.
I don't know if I gave you attention yet,
but here's your attention.
Thank you for joining in here and hanging out.
Pragmatic crystal.
Let's see.
Catbot says, as you once, or as you said once before,
and I think it's also good in order to get folks
off conspiracy thinking with the clickbait titles.
Yeah, look at like ancient aliens.
People watch that like all the time
and it's got very high quality visuals and graphics and stuff.
But when you talk to specialists in the field
about those areas or those particular artifacts,
archeologically speaking, geographically speaking,
whatever it may be, they always disagree
with the interpretations of the ancient alien movement.
Best term I could use maybe.
You could call it maybe a cult depending.
But yeah, like they're totally disagreeing
and why not make it appealing visually,
make it feel good, let them enjoy it.
And yet you're actually not getting spoon-fed rubbish.
You're actually getting critical scholars
in what the top leading people of the day
at the time think about it.
That's probably gonna change.
As decades go by, new refreshed ideas,
better hypotheses, maybe more evidence is unearthed
and things like that that will reframe
or adjust some of the previous models,
but why not get people acquainted
with the best scholars out there?
That's what we're trying to do with the documentaries.
I also have taken some liberty upon myself
to go into some hypotheses that are not mainstream
or not as consensus, but they're done by serious academics
who are taken serious in their specialties
and things like that.
So I want people to consider these ideas
because nobody knows with certainty
on all of these aspects.
For example, how old is the Hebrew Bible at large?
How much of the material goes way, way, way, way back?
How much of it is really young?
What if much of it, if not all of it
is being crafted much later,
like Persian period or Hellenistic period?
That view is not agreed upon.
You have archeologists who tend to think like Finkelstein
who thinks that some of the material,
some of the prophets might actually be writing
in the 8th, 7th centuries BCE.
While I have other scholars who say actually
we find anachronisms it seems in this literature
and this literature may actually be being scripted
or written down in the Persian to Hellenistic period.
What's the answer?
What is the case?
That's why I love keeping my mind open and looking at it.
But I can tell you the least likely position to me
is that Moses split the Red Sea
or that the 10 plagues actually happened
as they're described in Moses.
Or you give me a list, the genealogy of lifetimes
here in Genesis 5 really is.
Methuselah really lived 969 years
or Jonah was really swallowed by a well
for three days and three nights, things like that.
I think the myth and the stories, the point,
it's not what actually happened in history.
And I think we miss the point when we do that.
Uh-oh, Vilt again in the house with a,
is that another super chat?
No, it's the same one, sorry.
Said Dave, thank you so much.
Derek, you did a great job covering Buddhism recently.
As someone from Asia, I would like to see more shows
covering Buddhism, Hinduism and Zoroastrianism's
Indo-European origins and how they developed.
Sid, this is a great super chat because this morning
I was speaking to some of my friends about what I'd like
to do is look at how some of the stories,
the myths in Hinduism have their origins
or at least it seems there's some connection
between Mesopotamia and the stories
that are being told there and over here in India.
I'm wanting to go that way back in written history
and see what critical scholars say about who's talking to who
and when did they think this stuff's happening
and what are those shared stories
and how are they similar and how are they different?
Because I know there are some scholars out there
who definitely think there's a communication
probably on trade routes, maybe other ways
in which this information is traveling
all the way from India to the Middle East areas
and Asia and stuff like that.
So I'd be interested in doing that
and of course you get Buddhism,
something that needs to be covered in more in depth
because that was a great live stream
and I saw a lot in common with Buddha and Jesus
in that discussion.
Pretty interesting stuff.
Sid, thank you so much.
I do plan on doing that with this channel.
Rum runner in the house,
what's your favorite non-canonical book?
Mine is Thunder, The Perfect Mind.
As a piece of poetry, it is beautiful and profound.
So I don't know Thunder, The Perfect Mind
as I don't know this piece of literature
or if this is like a non-canonical biblical book
or something, don't know.
For me right now, I like Enoch.
I've been really focusing on this guy
because it is the best analogy I could give
if you're a Star Wars fan, I'm trying to go big here
because most people watching may have
some interest in Star Wars.
For those who are Star Wars fans
and know how deep the myth goes,
you might ask like where did the race of Yoda come from?
Like where did these green,
what we would look at and say alien looking creatures,
where, what is their past, what is their story?
And you can get lost in the myth of the myth and go,
man, I want to know the origins of Yoda's planet
and who these people were, et cetera, et cetera.
And you could do that with like all of these various themes
that are found in Star Wars, in Enoch
because there's so much rich history
that goes back into Mesopotamia all the way down
through Assyria into Babylon, down into Persia
and they're speaking Aramaic.
So as Seth El-Sander says, like these myths
are being translated into the common tongue
and everybody knows them at this point.
And I'm looking at it going, oh my gosh,
like you got seventh from Adam, Enoch shows up.
Well, just so happens that Etana
and you've got Adapa much earlier,
they play seventh in the King's List roles
and one of the King's List.
Some of the King's List are different in their order,
but you find like the seven Apkelu sages and such.
And he's this celestial visitor who goes up
and gets to see all the knowledge, the mathematics,
the cosmos and everything and brings back
the knowledge of the God, it's singular God in this context
because they believe in one God.
But there are several Elohim,
several lesser deities in the Pantheon here
and you see the giants and they're drinking the blood
and eating the humans and I mean,
it's crazy stuff to be honest.
And then they're teaching the women the arts of makeup.
Ooh, don't wear makeup.
That's a no-no.
But it also tells you a lot about the people of the time.
So you can look at it from a historical angle,
you can get lost in the mythology
and then trace its mythology way, way back.
You can see similar aspects of Enoch
and what's going on in one Enoch
and that of Prometheus and the Greek myths.
So I'm like this whole Enochian thing,
it just kind of has my attention.
It also plays a role I would say even to Jesus in some ways.
We're dealing with like the Dead Sea Scroll,
Qumran community of people that are Enochian in their mind,
possibly with a competing Torah over against the Moses Torah.
Talk about drama, wild, interesting,
deep rabbit trails of mythology you can get lost in.
And of course, I don't think it's historical.
It's lore, it's folk tales, it's legend, it's myth,
but that's not the point.
It's a story, it's like Star Wars, right?
In a way, that's how I look at it.
All right, all right, let's keep moving.
I hope that answered your question,
but that is always subject to change.
In fact, I imagine because I try to always keep my mind open
that I'll have several new favorites as I read.
That's just how my mind works.
So when I'm reading a book, at that moment,
it's the best book I've ever seen.
It is my favorite book.
Oh my gosh, can you believe it?
And then I read a new book and I'm like,
oh my gosh, I did not know this, did you know this?
And so I'm like a kid, I can't help myself.
I just, when I think something's powerful,
convincing and interesting, I try to give my all to it.
And then I'm, it's like a black hole.
I'm sucked in, I'm in,
and I wanna try and share that enthusiasm
and report it to the world
so everyone else can see how exciting it is.
It's freeing when you don't think this is literal.
I'm doing a video right now using this guy,
Digital Hammurabi, which I'm gonna have to read
this really annoying comment, I imagine, I'm predicting.
But Joshua Bowen's books are something else.
I have to warn you, if you have not read them,
I'm not just marketing form, I do market for academics.
I want them to want to come online and share their insights.
But let me tell you, the books are absolutely fantastic.
He's sourcing all the top scholars right now.
He's even allowing their debate to go back and forth
and of course giving you the critical scholar side
saying, hey look, these guys make the most sense
and here's why.
So I don't know what my point was on that.
There was a good point I was trying to make
about this whole thing.
And I lost myself in that diatribe.
Yikes, Derek again.
I know, man, I know.
Why would anyone listen to this guy?
This is true.
He's friends with the likes of Dr. Josh, I am, I am.
And Dr. Kip, I know, losers all around, am I right?
Well, you could be right.
Depends on if you can explain the foundations
of knowledge and logic without using your sensory inputs,
which is a materialistic aspect
that you're trying to actually explain the world by.
I'm just teasing.
Joshua Bowen always comes in with like
these presuppositional jokes at me.
And because he ended up having to experience something
I recently experienced on an episode
where these presuppositionalists are like trying to like,
I felt like it was mental masturbation.
They're just like throwing these words around
to try and explain all knowledge.
And if you don't have God to start with,
you can't even begin.
And I'm already four hours in,
two hours into that stream, I was hungry.
And I'm sitting here irritated by this time.
Jay Dyer, I think it was Jay Dyer and Jim Bob
and a guy named Andrew or something
tried to group up on me and I'm like,
so now I know when he always comments this,
you can't explain the origins
of the presuppositional foundational blah, blah, blah, blah.
I'm like, oh my gosh.
Speaking of which, Josh, while I have you here,
don't go anywhere.
I'm gonna be having a professional expert philosopher
who has debated these guys, Alex Malpass,
joining me on a live stream in February,
probably mid-February.
And it's gonna be something along the lines
of like presuppositionalism is preposterous, here's why.
And so you're gonna have an expert philosopher come in
and explain why it's preposterous and then go from there.
But we'll never hear them like just talk Bible
or deal with mythology and things like that.
So I have a lot more respect for people
who try to take an evidentialist perspective
where we find common ground of observing the world
and trying to empirically evaluate our claims
rather than word salad,
where you can make anything sound like anything
and potentially get out of anything with words.
That's how I feel it.
I'm no philosopher, I'll tell you that much,
but it feels like that.
Thank you for being here,
even though you clowned yourself and Dr. Kip.
So I'm just going through these two different chats here
and then I'll check your chat out
and see if I could find out where I was.
Jaynick, would you ever allow me to do an interview with you?
Thank you for being a member.
You'd have to like, I do try to filter
and make sure that if I'm gonna do something
that it's adequate for what I'm trying to aim at
with MythVision.
So I am very careful, especially with past experiences
of not wanting to promote certain ideas on the channel.
But if you message me or email me and you give me an idea
that you in particular have,
sure, one of the biggest ones that I am open to
for those who aren't experts are deconversion stories.
You don't have to be a scholar.
You don't have to be a know-it-all.
In fact, I think what's most powerful about them
is that anyone can relate.
I IQ, not high IQ.
Someone who's educated in this stuff, someone who's not.
Your experience and your story can help others
not feel alone.
And to know that, hey, the grass is greener
on the other side.
And there's some people who are going from,
I guess this philosophy of whatever their philosophy
is they live or they're not believing in them
afterlife and stuff gives them kind of,
I don't know, some kind of negative perception of a world.
And so they go the opposite direction
and they go to believing in something
or wanting to have hope in believing in things
that I can never give them.
And I don't try to give those, what I would say
are false hopes that aren't necessarily based off reality.
So yeah, message me and let me know what the topic is
and what you had in mind, but deconversion stories,
I'm open to those and they're always powerful.
A postate of mine podcast, subscribe.
Make sure you subscribe to their YouTube channel
and Digital Hammurabi.
I'm almost through Richard C. Miller's Resurrection
and Reception book.
I think you mean Reception, but either way,
because it does talk about the Ascension a ton
and it's rocking my world.
Can't wait to do an episode on it, amazing.
Thank you.
I'm so glad that you wrote this.
I'm glad I love anytime I get the chance
to talk about the book because I never knew
that there was a long history of legend, myth,
folk tell, you name it, of people's bodies going missing
in Greek and Roman myth.
And in fact, it gets in a way kind of reinterpreted
in Moses' myth because his body is buried by God.
No humans see where he's buried.
Therefore they can't go and say, it's this spot.
Let's venerate him, make him into a God
and worship Moses and things like that.
So he's buried by God, but Josephus reinterprets
this whole thing in a Roman context.
And I always emphasize this.
The most central character of Judaism in the first century
was Moses.
I mean, if it wasn't Jesus wouldn't keep saying you,
Moses has said, you read Moses.
I mean, he's the guy.
He's the one who wrote the five books
even according to Josephus.
He wrote these five books.
Now, Josephus says that he didn't die but was taken
kind of like Elijah Enoch, right?
He was taken and translated and ascends.
He's taken up.
Show me that in your Hebrew Bible.
It's not there.
Why did Josephus take the liberties
and follow of Alexandria did the same thing?
Why did they take liberty on the most central figure
and being able to rewrite his end,
rewrite it to a translation fable?
It's obvious to me, it's literature.
It's they're competing like John Dominic Cross
and said to a Muslim that he was debating
if Muhammad was in the first century
and did not claim to be a son of a God,
he would have been a nobody in lost a history
or we would not even care about who he was.
In the seventh century in Arabia that worked,
that would not have worked here in the first century.
You gotta know the outside, the milieu
in which that the movement is at and where it's at.
Like how do we know about the origins of Christianity?
Look at John Klopp and Borg's work
on where he talks about the heuristic approach
of comparing myths, these little myth cults from Addis,
the list goes on of how they practiced
and what they did, they had ritual eating
and drinking of the gods.
They had baptisms, they had certain places
in which they got together and gathered
and these are not Jesus cults, these are other cults
and they're very similar to what Paul's doing.
So the best way we can maybe try to glean
on early Christianity is to look
at other surrounding cults, surrounding movements.
And this is also what we might do in the literature
which is what Dennis McDonald's doing,
Richard C. Miller's doing, Robin Faith Walsh is doing,
M. David Litt was doing and the list goes on and on and on.
To me, it's the most common sense position.
That doesn't mean you can't value it,
that doesn't mean that people can't find ways
in which they reconcile it with their own faith
even though I tend to see the humanity behind it all
but some people look at the humanity
and still find something glorious about it
and can still hold on.
So I just went on a rant, didn't I?
Forgive me, but I had to, because I love it.
I spent a lot of time editing
four and a half hour documentary on Richard C. Miller's book,
took his entire book and you could be a witness to this,
how dense his words are
and how difficult it can be to read that book
but it's got punch after punch after punch
and when he compares it in chapter two,
I tried to break down that whole chapter
because he goes through several Greek and Roman gods
and then shows you how their fables,
you have some where the body goes missing
and out of 78, I think there was 78
that he went through, 50 something of them,
their body goes missing.
And we know Alexander the Great,
according to one of the stories about him,
tried to drown himself in the river floating away
where they didn't find his body.
Why?
Because in the Greek and Roman world,
when the body went missing,
that person was translated to becoming a God.
That's just the motif in the literature.
So you wonder, okay, that's part of their cultural
literary stories that go way, way back
where there are some accounts
where people try to actually fulfill
these kinds of things in real life,
like did Alexander really try to drown himself
to make his body go missing
in order to possibly be venerated as a deity,
which he was anyway.
And then you think about Jesus.
Did these people who followed Jesus
actually still the body?
Now I tend to think it's legend,
but did they still the body?
If so, did they do that knowing
that people would go, where's his body?
The gods must have took him or the God must have took him?
I don't know.
I like to think about all these questions.
Holy smokes.
There was 312 comments
and I only covered the six supers.
So they always cut the line,
just saying, super chats always do that,
but I'm gonna try and catch up to you.
There's a lot of you, forgive me.
Starving fact, your titles don't mislead,
they do grab, but they don't mislead.
Thank you, appreciate that.
And if they do, I don't mean to and I apologize in advance,
but I am trying to push the boundaries
and get your attention.
Greetings, welcome, welcome, welcome, welcome.
JNX is God of War for sure.
I'm gonna be having to go one of these weeks.
I'll have to let everybody know.
I'm on vacation, I need a break.
I go hard.
Dude, we could really use community opportunities
and cities for people like us,
like-minded truth seekers,
maybe an app that you join
and it places you into local groups.
That would be cool.
I have no clue how that would be cool to start connecting,
like never before,
because we need to have the connection.
Look, there's a reason all religions
have found temples or places to get together
and gather and worship,
and even pagans did in the wilderness,
they'd get together in the woods together,
depending on the context, of course,
they still do this today.
They meet in particular areas,
depending on the version of paganism,
but I think that it's a human thing.
There should be a monopoly on meeting place.
We evolved that way, and we need to have that.
So I could see mocking coming from people who go,
you atheists, or you skeptics,
or you people who are whatever category,
because I don't care what you are.
I'm not here to make you think like me.
I really just come to my own conclusions
and I respect people who come from various outlooks,
philosophically and whatnot, religiously,
but to get together where we have a common goal
of making a better world and finding communion
and digging deep into it from this angle
that I do here at MythVision would be awesome,
like a church, like a gathering place or something,
or something, somehow.
It's what I've tried to do remotely here,
especially when COVID hit,
MythVision started taking off,
but I think that's a human thing
and religion should not have a monopoly on that aspect.
Anyway, great, great comment.
I got John Jay Collins, excuse me,
introduction to the Hebrew Bible because of your channel.
I'm glad it's inspiring, MythVision's inspiring.
Where did I put it at?
I've got John Jay Collins over here somewhere.
There's so many books.
I got the one you're talking about.
Anyway, I got it right behind me
somewhere in this bookshelf, but yeah, he's awesome.
John is something else.
He cuts through the baloney in my opinion
and just gets straight to it.
Let's talk about documentary voiceovers,
especially low-tuned voices and stuff.
Can you email me because I think I've seen your comments
and I am not a audio guy.
I don't know how to perfect my art.
So maybe you have some tips and advice.
And by the way, everybody, let me go ahead
and spearhead this.
Because of how much work I do, and I'm trying to craft
and come up with scripts and things
to produce educational documentaries,
I attempted using AI, not only for the people
who do the speeches in my documentaries,
but also for my own voice and the last two documentaries.
I'm washing my hands with it.
I'm not satisfied with those two.
It mispronounces so much.
I already do that normal, but when a bot does it,
it usually is so bad, like you can at least know I'm trying,
where it will say stuff.
I mean, I'm talking about, I found some stuff in there
when I was first editing it before I launched it,
because it'd be too much work to go in
and actually changing it instead of me
just reading the whole script.
I literally was like, I can't do AI voiceovers
to try and run my documentaries anymore.
It really was disappointing to me.
Maybe they'll get better over time and perfected,
but I'm also dealing with words that come up in Hebrew
and then Greek and different words
that are not the normal everyday vocabulary.
So AI is probably like, what the hell are you putting in here?
Probably, so please email me.
David, I just found your channel
and I really like all the information you're putting out.
Thank you so much.
Thank you, David, appreciate that.
Thank you.
I like the information too.
That's why I love doing what I'm doing.
Yes, Pragmatic, thank you so much.
Caterpillar in the hizzy.
You 100% should have gone with Uncharted, it's amazing.
I actually played all the Uncharted,
so I don't know if there's like a new one I missed,
but thank you.
You're so dreamy, Derek.
Do a head, thank you, appreciate that.
I'll take that as a compliment.
I haven't started, but I wanna do Greek
because there's so much literature in Greek out there.
I'd like to dive into Greek.
And then I think I'll start there.
It's kind of like my channel.
You guys will see me deal with Buddhism
or some other religions,
but mostly dealing with the Bible
because I was a believer in it.
And I work outward from there,
but if I was to do languages,
I'd probably start with the most central part
of what my beliefs were based on,
the New Testament, which was originally in Greek,
and then work outward if I ever get that far.
Like, I mean that.
I don't know how I'd have the time
to do everything that I'm doing,
but I could start small.
I've got a couple friends that are like gurus in Greek
and they're saying, man, just put your keyboard
or put the alphabet up on the wall.
Just get in with the alphabet first,
and then over time, you'll start picking up words
and stuff, and I need to do it.
I always say that.
It's like going to the gym.
I'm gonna start working out next month or next week,
but you never do.
That I'm doing right now,
but getting the Greek language I'm not right now.
I need to.
Look, Call of Duty Daily Warzone and God of War for sure.
Hello from Atlanta.
I do not want to butcher your name,
but I know McBride.
I know that.
Thank you for being here.
Potential Theism.
Good to see you here, my friend.
Always good to see you here.
Zachary here in the house.
Oh, I got super chats.
Uh-oh.
Three super chats.
Gotta catch up with you guys.
So, hallelujah, Derek, Craig and Ford.
Subscribe to my friend, John White.
Hallelujah, Derek.
Good to see at a reasonable hour
for us this side of the world.
Hope all is well and keep up the superb work.
Looking forward to seeing you later this year.
Same here, man.
If you're interested in mythologies,
especially like Thor, like I was talking about earlier
with the show I've been watching, Viking show, Bahala,
he goes into the origins of mythologies
and Odin and Thor and all of these cool different myths
that go way, way, way back,
even pre-history, pre-written history,
dealing with how they traveled around
and these stories were passed along.
So go check out John's YouTube channel and subscribe.
Eunice and Cleon, it'd be nice to see more LGBT topics.
I think having more academics on,
in fact, actually stay tuned for the one I'm doing
with Jennifer Bird, it's related to this idea of Eunice.
Jesus says something in Matthew 19
that's quite controversial.
Churches love to quote it about marriage,
but they stop short of getting to what Jesus
is really emphasizing and I don't want to steal her thunder,
but her book on marriage in the Bible
is actually something we're gonna cover in that episode
and let me show you what the Bible says, right?
In this passage, I'm just using the NIV,
but we've all heard this, right?
Haven't you read?
He replied that at the beginning,
the creator made them male and female
and said, for this reason,
a man will leave his father and mother and be united
to his wife who will become one flesh.
So they are no longer two, but one flesh.
Therefore, what God has joined together,
let no one separate.
Why then they asked, did Moses command that a man
give his wife a certificate of divorce and send her away?
Moses is the central dog in this again.
Jesus replied, Moses permitted you to divorce your wife
because your hearts were hard, great excuse,
but it was not this way from the beginning.
I tell you that anyone who divorces his wife,
except for sexual immorality
and marries another woman commits adultery.
Now, the different gospel authors do something different
with Jesus's words on marriage
and Paul disagrees as well
with the idea of this being presented
according to the gospel Matthew about Jesus.
But then the disciples said to him,
if this is the situation between a husband and a wife,
it is better not to marry.
Jesus replied, notice all the like super conservative
American pastors love preaching this stuff right here.
And it's like, yeah, you could never divorce
and they love dying on that hill and then they're like,
but it's better not to marry at all then.
And what does Jesus say?
Jesus replied, not everyone can accept this word,
meaning I'm about to say some real shh.
And I don't know if you can handle it,
but only those to whom it has been given.
Or to me, I see this as kind of that deterministic,
only God has certain people who are gonna be aware
and able to receive these things
and he's the one doing it.
We see this all throughout the gospels.
I think Calvinists are right in recognizing motifs like this
throughout the New Testament,
but I also think because they work in a systematic theology,
they're forced to ignore any free will kind of materials
and things like that.
Anyone who does any research on the kumran materials,
you will find the free will stuff,
you will find the predestination stuff
and you will find them attacking each other's ideas.
Like you can tell they don't agree with each other.
Well, why is Arminianism and Calvinism still a debate?
Because the Bible teaches both ideas.
They're both in the New Testament,
but we just need to get over that.
But this is what he says.
I had to go on that little tangent.
For there are eunuchs who were born that way
and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by others.
And there are those who choose to live like eunuchs
for the sake of the kingdom of heaven.
The one who can accept this should accept it.
So like he really wants people to become eunuchs
more than even marrying male and female
and getting into these marriages.
Now, did Jesus really say this?
Big question mark.
The point is with this apocalypticism,
the end is nigh kind of teachings
that we see throughout the New Testament.
You could see why, what's the point?
Paul's talking about stop, don't sue,
don't go to court, don't divorce, don't this.
It's about to happen any day now, everybody.
So you're wasting your time worrying
about these things of this world
when it is passing away as we speak.
And in our systematic theology,
we call this period a time of,
what do you call that?
Where you're working out your salvation,
fear and trembling at the moment,
and it's like Romans eight theologically.
I can't even think.
My brain shut off, everybody.
My brain shut off.
But you get the point.
I'm sure you get the point.
We should all be eunuchs.
And so she's gonna cover eunuchs in history at this time
and what they were viewed as.
They weren't viewed as male or female.
They were in this weird in between category.
What the freak do we do with that?
For those who hate those who aren't either this or that,
et cetera.
So that should cover some of that topic.
And Jennifer Bird, Jennifer Grace Bird,
will give us her grace.
She will bring her wisdom and insight
and help others see what's going on.
And you wanna know the cool thing is she believes.
She believes in God in some way.
And that is always important
that we have different voices
and it's not just one set mind,
a materialist like me talking.
No, we're all trying to figure this thing we call life out.
For those of you who can at least stomach country music,
I like it, I like all music,
but there's a song called life as a dance,
you learn as you go.
And that's how I feel about this.
I'm trying to learn as I go.
Blake, what do you think about Christian atheism?
Thank you for that super chat.
I don't know.
I mean, honestly, it makes no sense to me
that someone is actually claiming to be a Christian
and yet an atheist.
If they mean they're culturally Christian in some way,
if they mean that they have invented
a new category of something like that,
I don't know what that is.
Jesus' teachings are cool and I like them.
Therefore, I also don't believe in a God.
I'm a atheist.
Whatever, I mean, whatever floats their boat, I guess.
But in my view, it doesn't really make much sense
because then what is a Christian?
I mean, I guess if it's just someone
who follows the teachings of Jesus to some degree,
they're probably gonna cherry pick a lot.
I would imagine.
But what is that definition of a Christian atheist?
Don't know.
I honestly don't know.
But I know people who've identified that way
and I'm like, huh, Christian atheists?
I don't know.
I'm sure you're gonna see things that I do.
I mean, I get Christians all the time and go, Derek,
I know that you say you don't believe in God
and I know that you say, like, you're not convinced
and the evidence doesn't draw you that way,
but the way you live your life
and how you're trying to help people
and empathize and show in love and caring
and all that kind of stuff,
that's more Christian than some of the Christians
that I see coming on.
So you're more like Jesus in many ways
and you don't even realize it,
but like God's got a plan for you
and all this kind of stuff.
And I'm like, you know, it makes me kind of smile.
I know they mean well, but I'm thinking to myself like,
well, I'll just keep doing what I think is good.
What do I think is the right thing to do
and be the best human I know how?
And if Christians are saying that, kudos.
You know, that's cool.
Doesn't hurt.
I don't see, I don't see it hurting.
It doesn't offend me at all.
Okay, where the heck was I?
I am way, way up here.
I gotta scroll down a little bit.
I wanna just, I'm moving kind of quick here.
So please bear with me.
You need to edit those three to four hour docs
to one and a half hours max.
No one will watch all four hours of a documentary.
Movie mask, thank you so much for that comment.
To be honest with you, I expect that most won't watch
all three or four out the gate, but I have several people
and numbers don't lie.
So my analytics tell me that people are watching
these videos from start to finish.
I imagine most aren't from start to finish out the gate,
but many, many, many people are.
And so I understand that.
My recommendation if they're long is to chip away at them
if you're interested.
The other thing is I do plan on putting out
shorter documentaries.
There's so much work that goes into these long ones.
And I think I'd rather do like one hour documentaries
instead that are hitting the spot maybe hour and a half.
I am gonna start doing that because it's easier for me
to produce more content that way.
And it's like the lottery, the more tickets you buy,
the better chance you have at winning.
Sometimes YouTube streams like that.
One video you just thought, I didn't do that well
on that one, goes viral.
The one I'm like, dude, this is it.
It's the one, plop.
And you're like, how in the YouTube is,
obviously has a mind of its own
and I do not know how to read it.
So thank you for that.
Oh, let me see.
What awesome, Matt, awesome.
Good to see you here, my friend.
We're back because they couldn't stop us.
I'm your Huckleberry.
Yep, okay, that's right, Val Kilmer.
Kilmer?
I think I'm saying that right.
Yeah, we're talking about earlier,
we're talking about Tombstone for those who didn't know.
I'm your Huckleberry.
Someone says, tarps off, bud, take off your shirt.
I'm good, I'm good.
I appreciate it though.
Hi, Derek, I'm an ex-Muslim
and you are among my favorite broadcasters.
Wow, that's awesome.
To hear someone who's not Christian
or that is not in the Christian context,
finding that this has been impactful in their own lives.
And I appreciate that, that means a lot.
Makes me feel good, like I'm on the right track.
Karen says, I love that you bring
all different perspectives on your channel.
Thank you, I try.
I'm 52, South African, can't trust any religious texts,
all been manipulated.
Well, thanks from South Africa, my friend.
Okay, Dundas says, would you be willing to debate
the God's not dead kid?
So, does Derek debate?
I don't, I don't do debates.
They're so frustrating and annoying
and I feel like it's more of a rhetorical thing often.
Very tribalistic.
I don't really care to put myself into that.
If I was having a dialogue with someone
that was a reasonable exchange partner,
debate partner, something like that,
and it was more of a conversation,
kind of giving our thoughts of where we're at and why,
then I'd be happy to do that.
But that's not really a debate.
A lot of them are like poop throwing contests and stuff,
and I'm just not into the whole thing.
So, I don't really do debates.
I've had a lot of people go, you'll see it and you,
I guarantee you, if you're on YouTube
and you're watching me right now,
you know what I'm talking about.
There's always someone who is fond
of a particular person, Frank Turrick, William Lane Craig,
or you name it, a Muslim scholar to our ex-Muslim friend.
You'll never debate Daniel Hikikachu.
You will never, you will lose against,
what's another big name?
You'll lose against these guys.
And it's like that, it's like if you can persuade
by being better rhetorically and aggressive,
then is that what's gonna persuade them to come over?
It's almost like they need this hero
for their belief to be true.
And if you can't beat their hero at word games
and trying to argue your way out of it,
then that's the kind of angle
that I'm just not interested in engaging in.
My channel does create tension.
My channel does create problems for some people's worldviews.
And that's why a lot of times they'll come at me like,
you'll never debate, you'll never win against.
And it's like, why does that person matter
in what I'm trying to do?
I have no interest in getting my hands dirty
with poop throwing.
I'm more interested in saying,
all right, here's what the academic say.
Let's look at this data and let's evaluate
what is going on here.
Now you, the viewer, what do you think about what you saw?
And how does that pan against what you thought
you saw before with the Bible?
Oh, this will blow your mind.
You know what I mean?
A lot of people do.
Rob Carter, love you and your work, Derek.
Keep grinding, bro.
Thank you so much, Rob.
Zachary, hey, Derek, your juice of clickbait
for this video certainly got my attention.
I looked up the definition of clickbait.
And so I know that one of them is
you're not actually giving the accurate information.
You're like misleading with the title
and it has nothing to do with the video.
That's like the primary thing.
I imagine what clickbait is.
But then in the definition, they add like,
you're really being sensational with your title.
But is it inaccurate to be sensational?
No, people get angry though.
I have several comments in the past.
This title, I even had one person
who was interpreting my title in a negative way.
I said something like, the origins of Enoch are insane.
And they're like, why are you making
mental health issues out of it?
And it's like, that is not at all
what I meant with my title.
Like if I use the word insane or crazy or mind blowing,
it's just some adjective to make you think
this is gonna be a shocking video
with information you probably don't know about.
Anyway, Aaron Harward, thanks for your work.
It's been truly inspirational.
How do you do it all?
Well, I walk on water
and I've multiplied fish and bread
and all these kinds of things are kind of a norm for me.
So doing this 24 seven is pretty easy.
It's kind of hard to hear everybody's prayers all at once
but I try.
Now, seriously, I've always had a militant work ethic.
Might be my mom and dad kind of teaching me that
but also worked my ass off physical labor my whole life.
And then I was like, let me just apply the work ethic
that I've always used on physical labor
to reading books, education in my mind.
And here we are.
I hope that helps.
Reference kumran and clay jars with animal residue
indicating possible connection with the temple
and sacrificial meat being sent to kumran
and what that might mean.
Interesting, I did not know about this
but it wouldn't shock me.
It really wouldn't shock me.
I know there's temple scrolls
and stuff like that they found in kumran
wondering if the priest escaping what was coming
brought those materials down there to kumran.
There's probably other hypotheses
of how that found its way in.
But that's an interesting thing to bring up.
I would defer to my expert friends on this.
Sniffers, you guys, only my only fans.
I'm talking about everything, Rune.
Can't wait for new Dennis McDonald stuff.
Yeah, he'll be here at nine tonight.
So I'm picking him up from the airport
and I'm blown away by his works.
There's some people who don't see it
but I really do think they're lacking
that kind of imaginative creativity
that authors would have had
in crafting the Jesus narratives.
I really, really do.
What I find ironic about Dr. Dennis McDonald's work
is when you get to the book of Acts,
more academics, more think, man, he's spot on.
There's a whole bunch going on in the book of Acts
that is imitating Homer, the Odyssey or the Iliad
and of course, Virgil, Senean.
But then they get to the Gospels
and they're way more critical and hesitant
on taking these conclusions
and possibly drawing imitation.
I don't have, I could see why that's difficult for them,
especially when everybody's working a certain model
of scholarship depending on the schools that you're in.
But he's a pioneer and I think he's honestly,
one of those guys, 20, 30 years after he's gone,
people are gonna go, damn, this guy saw something
and we should have taken it more serious
but it's taken decades for us to catch up
to what he's done with the Gospels
and seeing Greek and Jewish imitation.
It's not just biblical.
There's much more going on.
What all is much more in the Greek world is up for debate.
Even Dennis says not every connection he makes,
he thinks for sure is it.
He's just trying to see how much spaghetti sticks
at the wall but there's enough there, in my opinion,
to say it's happening for sure.
Manny Morehall, Derek, all triads are serverous.
I wrote a book about it.
Thank you for that comment.
All right, I gotta scroll down here.
Oh, we got a super chats.
Joe Hanan, rats.
Derek, I've been following your videos on Enoch recently
and I was wondering what your thoughts were
on the Watchers having parallels
with the Egyptian Urshu and Sumerian Igigi.
So I haven't looked into the Egyptian side of things,
pertaining to Enoch.
There may be things going on there.
I'm mainly stuck with Seth El Sanders' work
on Adapa to Enoch.
Specifically, Enoch parallels Adapa the sage,
the wise sage who, to give you a nutshell of this whole thing,
if you go far enough back into Mesopotamia,
how do I wanna do this?
Because it's super complex
and there's a lot of material here.
You had kings and gods.
As far back as you can go, kings and gods.
The gods put the kings in power
and there's order to the universe.
They believed in kind of like the beginning of Genesis
where it says, in the beginning,
God created the heavens and the earth,
which doesn't mean ex nihilo,
but nonetheless, it was formless and void, chaos.
He brings order and we see that through the days.
There's order, he separates this.
He starts to make the cosmology in order.
Well, that's how the ancient gods of Mesopotamia
saw the world.
That's why when Adapa broke the wing of the south wind,
that's when Anu or Anu, depending on what source
you're looking at, said, who's creating chaos?
They stopped nature from continuing
by breaking the wind, the wing of the wind, south wind.
So he brings him to heaven because look, man,
you're gonna create chaos.
And in fact, his refusal to become immortalized
because Inki or Ea, depending on the source,
tricked him and said, if you eat the water of,
they say it's the water of life and the food of life,
they're actually poisoning you, you're gonna die.
So I found so much overlap with Adam and Eve
and Enoch, which is in Genesis,
and then this Enoch lore that just goes
with the watchers and all.
The watchers themselves, they're kind of,
I almost feel like looking more at the Greek sources
or where their origins come out, in my opinion.
You have the Apkalu, which come in a more later
Hellenistic period with the Sumerian mythologies
that are Sumerian, Akkadian, Babylonian,
and even in the Persian period.
But I'm looking at the Apkalu,
the Igigi gods could play a serious role,
but they're like lesser deities.
But I'm also thinking about the Titans in the Greek myths
and these giant creatures, because they also get
put into the underworld and they're imprisoned in darkness
and some of the myths have it like they create earthquakes,
like where earthquakes come from,
that's the Titans bumping against the walls
in the underworld, which make the earth unstable and shake.
Well, in Enoch, one Enoch in the book of the watchers,
it talks about these watchers being imprisoned
in certain locations and one of them is in the underworld,
beneath the earth.
And so I kind of wonder, is there a fusion going on?
I haven't checked the Egyptian,
but is there a fusion going on with the well-established
Mesopotamian tropes and then looking at the Greek ones
and saying, what's happening with the Titans?
I don't know.
I love this stuff though.
I really, really do love it.
And I know that you do too as well.
That's why you watch and you're also connected
with me on Facebook.
But you make me want to look up the earth shoe now.
I need to like see if any academics have connected
the dots and also look at the primary sources
and see, is there something here?
It wouldn't shock me if there was.
They were rich in various cultures at this period.
So, Johanan, thank you for that.
I love every opportunity I can to kind of give you my thoughts
and express myself, but thanks for that question.
Buddy Powell, thank you Derek for all the work, mate.
Thank you, appreciate it.
I really appreciate everybody, love you.
It means a lot to have the support
and just gonna keep on keeping on.
Okay, scrolling down, man, I'm so far above here.
Tablets and Temples.
You gotta subscribe to Tablets and Temples.
If he's still in the chat, tag him right now.
Let him know that you're gonna subscribe to the channel.
All the people I tell you to subscribe,
this is the Pope's edict, okay?
I'm telling you, you gotta subscribe to all of them.
Number one, because if you do good to others,
they may do good back, which helps our whole community grow.
But number two is, I'm not kidding when I say
there's information on these channels
that I love and it's mind-blowing.
So, if you like this kind of stuff
and you're into this, get it.
He's gonna be dealing with flood myths across the world.
And you know the argument we've heard from people
who say like, they're all ubiquitous.
There's the flood myth everywhere.
Everyone has flood myths.
Therefore, there was a universal flood of the world back then.
Temples or tablets and Temples, go subscribe
because he's gonna be covering this
in some extensive detail.
And also just a sneak peek,
I don't know if you knew this tablets,
but Dr. Matthew Munger, who's a Dead Sea Scroll scholar,
he is also doing a deep dive
into the various mythologies of flood myths
across the world.
I don't know how far in extensive he's going
with flood myths, but he may actually be uncovering things
that bring in the Greek myths of the flood.
I can't wait to see if there's some new stuff we discover
that maybe brings the Greek flood story
and says, hey, the Genesis account
isn't just aware of Gilgamesh and Atrahasis
and things like that.
It knows the Greek myths.
I would be blown away if we could get more academics
to seeing that.
I don't want them to do it just because others are doing it.
I want them to be convinced that they think it's happening
because of the evidence.
If it's not, I wanna change my mind
and stop pretending that it might be the case,
but I think there might be something to it.
Okay.
The Sicarii are on their way.
This is a fact.
We know that's a fact.
Karen loves South Park.
As long as everybody knows, Karen loves South Park,
South Park can be very funny.
All right.
Today's topics are all over the place.
Crack it forward is in the house or was.
Not sure if he still is.
Derrick is starting and only myths for the ladies.
What in the world?
I just thought that was funny.
I had to mention it.
Brandon Bolton.
Thank you for that little comment.
That's pretty funny.
Teeth on logo, pretty nice.
I don't even know the brand here.
It's from Wave, Grave, Rest in Peace.
I don't know.
It was in my closet.
That's all I know.
Hallelujah and drink tea.
This is the answer to an enjoyable life.
Thank you, thank you.
James interviews, Myth Vision podcast.
Would you interview Eastern Orthodox scholars
and more Roman Catholic scholars?
I know John Jay Collins is Catholic.
If they're on the caliber of people like Collins,
you betcha, you betcha.
And I know there are several out there.
I just don't know all the names.
I don't know all of them.
But if they are like John Collins, absolutely,
I would be more than happy to.
And I plan on doing interviews
with new academics over time as well.
So we'll see.
We will see.
Okay, scrolling down everybody.
Will you be getting Jason Staples
on regarding his new book?
I better, I better, I have to.
I mean, I read his first book
and I need to have him on about this one.
I've been bothering him.
If you ever wrote him and said,
hey, here's an email.
You know that guy, Derek Lambert from Myth Vision.
He's emailed you several times.
Are you ever planning on doing an interview with him?
He'll probably say, yeah, I plan on it.
Definitely planned on it.
But I've been asking him about Paul
and his interpretation of Paul
for three or four years.
And I've been asking for like an early copy
and trying to read it in advance
to help promote the book.
Because I think it's interesting to have academics
who find different ways to interpret what he's doing
in Romans nine through 11 specifically,
but all throughout Paul's letters, what is happening?
What is going on with this dude?
What's going on in Israel?
And I'm talking about in the latter days or last days,
they're supposed to be gathered in
the myth of the lost tribes of Israel.
What's going on there?
All right, scrolling down, scrolling down.
Hey, four chords.
Thank you for being on the right side of history
with a good conscience and morals for standing up to, okay.
I'm trying to avoid this whole topic altogether, my friends.
And I wanna try and just move forward
and not create any potential cause of harm to others.
So I appreciate the comments,
but I definitely wanna avoid them.
So thank you so much for being here.
Gamirkin, someone says.
Yeah, I love learning from him.
Oh my God, I'm finally catching up
to where digital homerabi super chat was.
That tells you how many comments I have not got.
Stone monkey research laboratories,
Derek chats are always good.
Look, I'm gonna keep it real with 531 of you.
If you don't like what I'm saying, that's totally fine.
There's hundreds of people you can talk to
that you do like talking to in the chat right now.
So thank you, thank you so much.
Can you get Jay Smith on the show?
I don't know who Jay Smith, Jay Smith.
Trying to think of who that is.
Fiona, Derek, we've both been to the Red Sea
and we both know that it was not split.
It is still cool to go there
and think about what people were looking at
and what they were thinking about when writing.
Yes, I love doing that.
I love doing that.
Look at the, if you go to the Dead Sea
and you're actually traveling along the highway next to it
and you're looking at the water
and you're seeing all that salt,
there's lots of white salt everywhere.
They have salt manufacturers, many factories,
factories, salt factories and stuff,
manufacturing probably where we get
all of our Dead Sea salt imported from.
But you're looking at these pillars.
You see natural pillars of salt.
You could see why someone would then go,
that was actually once a person
or create a story based on the geography.
What is it?
Dr. Cargill's book, Robert Cargill.
I would probably be turned around for a while
trying to find it, but you get the point.
Absolutely, Fiona.
Read Thunder the Perfect Mind.
It's a Gnostic work that is so beautiful.
It's also a short read.
I will, I will, thank you.
Scrolling down, scrolling, scrolling.
Yes, I did, I decided to remove it
and remove all videos, period, from the channel.
And I'm planning on moving forward, my friends.
That is all I'd like to say.
Just doing the best I can to keep going
and not cause any potential drama with this channel
or any other channel.
I wanna try and just do good and move forward.
That's all I got to say on that.
So thank you for being here.
Matthew Hartke.
This guy has a special place in my heart.
Trying to listen to what this guy says,
but he's way too attractive.
I didn't know you wrote that.
I would have probably skipped this comment, Matthew,
but I appreciate it, man.
Thank you.
Seriously though, here's my compliment.
Here's my compliment back.
I'm not gonna compliment that amazing beard, okay?
I'm gonna compliment something else.
Matthew Hartke came and stayed in our house for two nights.
I think it was two nights.
We went and got him some food.
He's picky about what he eats and stuff like that.
But this guy is one of the sharpest non-PhD thinkers
when it comes to apocalypticism, eschatology,
cognitive dissonance, Matthew Hartke's the man.
And if you haven't subscribed to his YouTube channel,
you might want to because the end is nigh.
We only have like a few days till the end of the earth.
And so you wanna be in the bubble
and not get destroyed when the end happens.
You need to go subscribe to Matthew Hartke.
That's all I gotta say.
That's all I gotta say.
And your beard is just glorious.
So there you have it.
There you have it.
Tim Barr says, what evidence does the atheist have
that God does not exist?
I have no evidence to argue that a God does not exist.
The evidence needs to be presented on your end.
If you think there is a God,
you gotta give us the positives.
Joshua Bowen's jaw line is like Superman's.
There you go.
You're not left out, Josh.
But I don't have to prove to you unicorns don't exist.
If you asked me,
did you give me the evidence that unicorns don't exist?
I'd be like, can we show any that they do?
That would be my approach.
I appreciate it though.
I love Enoch.
Elizabeth, thank you.
I'm not alone.
I'm not alone.
It may get weird
and it may get boring in certain sections.
I get it.
Trust me.
The genealogies and Genesis are boring.
But one of my favorite books in the Bible is Genesis.
It has so much in it.
And it's so interesting to me.
Anyway, thank you, Elizabeth.
I'm not alone.
That is your Protestantism speaking out
or really your Pauline theology,
biblical theology of a wretched man that you are.
No, you are an amazing person, Josh.
Never look at yourself and say that ever.
Go smile.
Go smile in the mirror when you look at yourself.
Holy smokes.
We just got bombarded with supers, everybody.
I'll go over here and see you.
You're showing me love.
You're dangling, I'm on the pole and you're throwing me dollars.
Bobby Gogol, gobble, gobble, gobble.
If the book of Daniel wasn't written
into the second century BCE,
how was it included in the Septuagint,
which was written, translated, a century earlier?
That's an interesting question.
From what I understand is the Septuagint did not consist
of all the literature that is now currently
in what we call the canon.
So not someone who's not a Daniel scholar like John Collins
or even is aware of this stuff like Joshua Bowen
or Kip Davis or someone else like Matthew Munger, et cetera.
My understanding is that what was translated
were the first five books.
And that is not to say that there weren't other books
that we now see in our Old Testament as translated,
but mainly it was the Torah
that I think was translated in the third century BCE
from Hebrew into Greek,
according to what we've been told by Josephus.
And other sources that seems to be
where the scholarship is at.
So Daniel was added later,
but it wasn't like everything we think of
as the Old Testament,
all of that was translated in third century.
Therefore, Daniel shows up in the second, ha ha, gotcha.
So this story in the third century must be wrong.
No, it wasn't all of the Bible.
And the canon?
Goodness gracious, what canon?
That's what all the scholars are saying
on the channel on Mythision.
There was no canon.
That development came centuries after the first century.
That development,
that didn't mean they didn't have sacred texts.
That didn't mean they didn't have a Torah of laws and stuff,
but the canon of scripture,
what is and what isn't, that's later.
So thank you, Bobby.
And any scholars that are in the chat,
if I make any mistakes ever during the streams,
please correct it in the chat and say,
well, this is the case, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
If I'm on the right money, then cool.
You just say, yup, Derek's right about that,
or he's pretty right about that,
or he's close enough.
Limited light, God's not dead kid.
Be more specific, Sorbo's kid.
The actor who played the college kid.
Do we know whether that actor is still a theist?
I don't have a clue.
For those who watched all the movies,
I think I only watched the first one.
So it's a little bit like cringe to me
in some, like to watch some of this stuff.
I just get like, I don't know.
I'd rather read a book than watch that.
But thank you, limited light.
Someone else in the chat can probably help me out better.
That has seen it.
Joe Hanan Ratz, am I saying your name properly?
I don't want to mispronounce it, brother.
I have something to show you regarding
an unexpected crossover between The Watcher,
Apkalu, Urshu topic, and my quantum idealism stuff.
I'd like to show you, maybe we can do a hangout.
At some point when my life is not as hectic, we should.
We should definitely make something happen.
I would be interested in seeing what you present.
And you know, you got me on Facebook Messenger.
Thank you for the super chat and being here, Joe Hanan.
And yeah, send me whatever you found there.
I'm interested.
You're gonna lose me on quantum idealism.
I just don't, I'm not acquainted with the material.
I'm very, very novice when it comes to philosophy at large.
I would be dependent more on experts
in the field of philosophy to understanding philosophy.
Reg Shrek, what do you think about the existence
of King David given the scant evidence?
Tell Dan Stilley.
So you're asking me my thoughts
and this is totally changeable.
I am mutable on this, my fickle answer.
I tend to think there was maybe
a man named David with a small kingdom
or small, I'll say village of people.
Like everything grows over time,
the snowball effect legends build.
And I personally read the stories in the Bible
as legends, as myths about the guy.
That's my personal opinion that there may have been a guy.
I could be wrong.
There could completely be whole fabric
invented character here.
And so you get this Stilley and this Stilley's based off
of a guy that they have invented.
It's like saying, if I invent Enoch,
which I think Enoch is an invented fictional character,
and then we found an inscription
that mentions Enoch's name or something,
that doesn't make him more historical.
But I tend to think there was a guy in the South
that was named David who had a small kingdom
and that got embellished and radicalized
and legend and whatnot over time.
I could be wrong.
Again, that's where I'm at right now.
And some of the work I've looked at
that's kind of made me think that could be wrong.
Head of thinking is Joel Baden, his book on David.
And he talks about how bad David looks
in the original text.
That could be a misnomer
because in that time and period, maybe,
this was not as embarrassing for someone
to have so many struggles.
That may have been just a well-understood way
of writing a motif, but he's so bad,
he looks like the bad guy and the author later
in Chronicles has to whitewash him and make him look
like he never did all this bad stuff
and he's actually a better person
than you realize and stuff.
Like I said, he could be whole cloth fiction.
I tend to think there was probably a guy
in disguise like way back here,
but what the writings are about him
come much later in my opinion.
I think post exile.
That's my thoughts.
Nate S, cheers to you, Derek.
Thanks for all you do.
Love your channel.
Thank you, Nate.
Appreciate the love.
William Arons, I have remained a Christian
in a Christian church my entire life,
but I've always reserved the right to question
long before viewing MythVision.
I will continue to discuss ideas
both in and out of the church.
William, hats off to you.
I'm so glad that you can do that and it works for you
and you seem to have a very well-balanced way
of approaching it and that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
And you've been following and been my patron for a while
and we've had back and forth chats and stuff.
So I'm definitely more extreme, I feel.
So for me, I left it all and now I'm having
to reconstruct and realize like,
whoa, my whole world was built around this thing
and now I'm trying to figure out how to live life
and what are the best ways to do that without the church.
But we have a community here
and you are welcome, my friend, always.
Thank you.
Red Shrek, Dr. Francesca Helm,
the Netflix series about the Bible.
She had a unique view of what the Genesis creation story
was about.
Please, can you have her on again to ask about her view?
I'm glad you brought her up.
I've emailed her.
She is a busy, busy woman.
I've emailed her several times and I know
that that means check in over time.
And I think she'll come back, of course.
It's just gonna take when she's available
and figuring out her time.
But I definitely thought even reading her book,
God and Anatomy, the way that she interpreted certain things
were really interesting.
I didn't know these things and I'm reading it and I'm going,
I never thought about that passage.
And off the top of my mind, I can't remember exactly
what it was with Cain and Abel and Adam and Eve.
But I think it was when she was tackling Augustine's view
of Adam and Eve in the fall as a sexual sin.
And this really worked for Augustine at the time
when philosophy was getting very ascetic.
Like people were not fans of sexual activities.
At this time, when Augustine's on the scene,
it's like there's a big push in philosophy
to get away from flesh, get away from sexual promiscuity
and things like that.
So his interpretation of Adam and Eve became
one of original sin and sex being a no-no
and like it's not good in the long run.
Origin literally goes full unique
according to some sources and what people think.
And of course, Jesus as we talked about earlier, Matthew 19
talks about you should do that.
Maybe Origin is like, I'm gonna show you,
I'm gonna really follow the words of Christ.
But the way she understood Adam and Eve and the fall,
like nothing to do with original sin
and this idea that Augustine has later, like nothing.
So I love learning from her.
She is very controversial and blunt
and says what she means and means what she says.
And that's what I love about her.
And she's smart, very smart.
So I preach you to the choir that as you already know.
Merlin shocked, shocked, shot.
Thank you for Super Chat.
Hi, Derek.
Have you heard of Jonathan Page?
I'm just gonna say Page and his symbolic world podcast.
I have not.
You guys should talk.
Thanks for all your awesome content.
Merlin, thank you so much for the Super Chat.
I don't know who this is.
Sounds interesting, symbolic world,
like symbols, meanings, myths, legends, I suspect.
Reading into that a little.
I like your eye.
I came up with mythish and I use the eye
and it's really just like looking at the myth,
but also, you know, you used to have that saying
like the eye is the gateway to the soul, right?
You can read into someone's eye and see.
Well, it kind of had some symbolism
when I first started it,
but it was more like, let's look at the myths together.
Limited light.
Thank you for that Super Chat.
The question is, who was the earlier Super Chatter
referring to when asking if you'd debate
some God's not dead kid?
Is what it sounded like you read?
I don't know who, hold on, let me go back up.
I think it was at the beginning, wasn't it?
I thought it was a, it was just a comment.
I think it was just a comment, it wasn't a Super Chat.
I won't be able to find that comment.
There's hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of comments.
Limited light, thank you for the Super Chat.
Everybody's talking about this.
Is there something I don't know
or something about this God's not dead kid or something
that I need to know?
Because that keeps coming up.
But thank you for that Super Chat.
And then Red Shrek again says,
it annoyed me that the authors and editors
of King's Shit on King Omri,
who was probably one of the most accomplished kings of Israel.
That's a very interesting observation.
And Francesca brought that up.
In fact, your previous Super Chat bringing up Francesca,
she brought that up, but it's not just her.
It's like all these archeologists are saying
the King Omri, the line of King Omri
were so important in Northern Israel in the time
before Assyria crushed Israel.
And they just get like this little, yeah,
and the King Omri, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Boom, move on.
Like Judah was like irrelevant
and like compared to the North.
And this King was something else.
For me, you could say if you take this dating back
and you really think a lot of this material dates
way, way, way back around that time,
you could say that this is purposeful and propagandistic
to like push Omri out of the picture completely.
I could see that being the case.
I also could see it being the case that
the authors writing this are so much later,
like centuries and centuries later,
to the point where Omri really has no relevance to them.
They just know about it in passing through inscriptions
or earlier sources in some way in passing.
And they go, yeah, Omri, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
They're obviously not important
because the Syria crushed them and they don't know more.
So whoop-de-do, who cares about them?
They're not important to me in my fifth century context,
in my potentially later or earlier context.
That's how I kind of see it.
It's like we might see some famous president
in the United States and go, whoa, this guy did so much.
And then let's just imagine America lasts
for another thousand years or better yet,
let's be more realistic, three or 400 years.
And then that earlier president, just whatever, who cares?
It doesn't serve a purpose to us now.
So whoop-de-do, even then it's kind of propagandistic,
but it's more about like,
do we even know his significance at this time?
That's the kind of two different ways I would say
you could probably look at it.
Okay, holy freaking smokes.
I've blasted through a lot of supers
and King Cobra, the karate kid,
is exactly what I thought of when I saw this name.
Derek, you do an excellent job presenting information
from an objective point of reference
and give everyone the respect of independently thinking
while formulating a new perspective.
Thank you.
That means a ton.
Mephizia movie, my documentaries.
Thank you, thank you for all these comments.
I'm going down tablets and tipples.
I can't remember which emperor,
but one Roman senator claims to have witnessed
the spirit of a Roman emperor ascend to heaven
after his death.
That's, I don't know the exact source.
I know that Richard C. Miller talks about eyewitnesses
and he actually gives the eyewitness accounts
of the claims that they saw Caesar's ascend
or a Caesar ascend after his death
or appear to them after the death.
We know Romulus, right?
We've heard about that,
but I'm talking about in the first century period.
And what I think,
let me make sure I got this here.
Yeah, and then Justin Martyr even admits as much
when he says, you know, just like the Caesars
that you guys venerate as gods after
and say ascend to heaven and stuff.
So there's, you know, like people who say
there's no other virgin births.
You know, gods had to sleep with mortal women
to have children in the Greek and Roman context.
What I find ironic is Justin Martyr doesn't agree that.
Justin Martyr mentions other virgin births.
He mentions, was it Apollo or I'd have to pull up the source,
but in one apology, he talked about the Caesars
ascending after death and that witnesses claim
they saw them and says, we believe nothing different.
We're doing the same thing with Jesus
that you guys are doing over here.
That doesn't mean there's the Iraq's copies.
This isn't zeitgeist.
This is just well understood.
And I hate that.
I hate that like, it's easy to pigeon hold these ideas
that I'm presenting and going, oh, they're just,
everything's identical and perfectly just the same.
And I don't, they don't,
if they think that's what I'm doing, they don't understand.
They do not, they're not listening to anything
that I'm saying and they're not listening to the scholars
who are coming on presenting the evidence.
It's, that's just not the case.
The well understood things that people are doing,
there's topos, there's tropes,
there's themes, there are things that are happening
that you go, whoa, what's happening here?
Matthew's birth narrative of Jesus,
people look backwards and go, hey,
this looks like Moses's birth and saying that the,
the Pharaoh is trying to kill all the newborn infant,
male infants of Israel,
because they're becoming outnumbering the Egyptians, et cetera.
But other scholars recognize parallels between that
and the birth of Alexander the Great,
like Richard C. Miller.
And then I turn to Suetonius.
What do I find in the divine Augustus section?
His birth, at his birth where there's poor tents,
prophecies claiming he's,
one is gonna come from nature
that is gonna rule the world, Caesar Augustus.
And then it also mentions that that year,
the women were not to rear up children
according to the Senate.
Now that sounds similar.
Is there a well-established trope of birth narratives
where they're not supposed to be born
and the powers that be politically in the world
are trying to cut them out from existence?
Herod tried to do it with Jesus,
Berra tried to do it with Moses.
Here we have Suetonius saying that the Senate's trying
to do this with Caesar Augustus.
It's a well-established legendary trope in literary form.
So I just went down a serious rabbit row,
but you inspired it.
Thanks tablets and temples.
Thank you, thank you.
I gotta scroll down, man.
I'm gonna end up,
I'm gonna end up losing people here.
Let me go down here.
I'm gonna scroll down.
Actually what I'm gonna do,
because actually I saw one person I do wanna mention,
Skeptic Haven, go subscribe to Skeptic Haven,
make sure that you go do that.
I'm telling you, they're all on the same page
trying to help get more knowledge out there.
And James Apperson, good to see you here.
Looking forward to more
Hunter Biden's laptops, Mahomi J, Nitties in the house.
We got some awesome people here joining us.
Stacey's Mom's podcast, Holy Smokes.
Lucky Rich says, you're close.
It is believing Jesus is a mystic,
someone who had a spiritual experience and preached truth,
but yet does not believe in the form of a single God,
believes others have misinterpreted.
I don't know where that came from.
I'm just, I'm just trying to scroll down.
I am not perfect at this here.
There's so many comments, everybody.
All right, I'm going all the way.
Let me go to new comments.
I'm sorry, I had to cut through.
There's so many, okay, scrolling up to the last super.
Skeptics and Scoundrels in the house,
absolutely subscribe to Skeptics and Scoundrels.
I believe you got a YouTube channel.
I've seen a few of your videos.
I want to make sure you still have that.
Prometheus News, thank you, Nun for a response.
Okay, so you guys are having conversation.
I want Caesar salad now.
Oh, Kip Davis, good to see you here, brother.
The Northern Kingdom was called Omri Land.
What's that tell you about how important
this land and Omri would have been?
Yeah, so there's something going on there.
Something big is being missed by the biblical author,
whether they don't mean to or they intentionally did it.
Either way, Apollo, is that in the right order here?
Let me make sure I'm in the right order.
Oh, sorry, I passed you, Red Shrek.
I wonder if Christians think that original sin
also applies to earlier forms of humans that went extinct.
Like, did Homo erectus have to say the sinner's prayer?
That would be a question for someone like Michael Jones, right?
Or someone who accepts the scientific consensus
on evolution, and then what do you do before that?
But I would imagine, they would say it was irrelevant
because at some certain point they might,
I don't know if they think Adam is historical.
I feel like they juggle with it
or they don't get dogmatic on it,
but they imagine like at some point Adam
and this woman Eve, Adam specifically,
God's breathing his Numa, his spirit into Adam,
and now he has this soul.
So before that, I don't, I imagine they just go,
it's irrelevant, it doesn't matter,
but at some point God finally puts his spirit into a man,
and then now this man actually has the image or something.
But I'd imagine they're reading this
with some philosophy in mind
that probably wasn't on the radar
for the Genesis author.
Apollo's Christian apologetics.
Good to see you here, long time.
Really loved your cutting edge research
with Camille versus Bacchum.
Even though I disagree with methodology,
keep it up, my favorite atheist YouTuber.
Thank you, Apollo's.
I really do appreciate you, man.
It's been a minute, been a minute.
I haven't done a hangout live with our audience for a while,
but yeah, Camille is meticulous
and trying to be accurate.
And no one has tried to go after the Bacchum apologetic stuff
with names and stuff like that.
I feel like it's just,
there's so much work involved in trying to get all of it
and calculate and stuff.
So I do enjoy seeing people who are interested
in going down these rabbit trails
and coming back going, actually, what was Bacchum thinking?
No, here's the conclusion.
Skeptics and scoundrels became a member.
Thank you.
Are you, you do have a YouTube, right, brother?
Let me make sure, if you comment it by now.
Wow, there's so many comments.
Okay.
Skeptics, where are you at, my friend?
Trying to see you.
Oh, I don't know how I would even find it.
If you comment now, let me know you have a YouTube channel.
I want to get people to go subscribe to you.
Or sure, please.
Kip Davis says,
Lydia McGrew's responses to Camille's article
on name frequency is so, so sad.
I'm not laughing.
I'm not laughing.
This isn't funny.
This is serious.
No, I have to personally say something though, Kip.
And please, I hope people don't take this the wrong way.
But when you have to turn off your comments on your videos,
I don't know if you should be getting
in the front of controversial stuff or like,
you can do that.
You have the right to do that.
I just, I feel like it says more about the sensitivity
of the person presenting it.
I understand certain topics create so much hate
that you almost don't tainted with bad rhetoric
because YouTube can like with negative,
really bad comments they could potentially,
I don't know, maybe see your channel
as in a bad category or something.
And I'm assuming the analytics work that way
is YouTube's a bot.
There's no human behind it going,
okay, we're watching myth vision now.
Oh, look at these comments.
It's all like ran by bots.
But when you're having to turn off your comments
from potential criticism that is gonna be picking apart
some of the things you say,
I feel like that's a sign that I would publish things
rather than make videos that are gonna make you
not have your comment section turned on.
I don't know.
Am I wrong for that, Kip?
Am I wrong for that audience?
Let me know if you think that that's a bad observation
and I'm just, I don't know,
speaking out of my ass or something.
I could do that sometimes.
Going to the next super chat, dope lunchbox.
Thank you for that super chat.
Have you ever looked into leistodianism?
Am I even pronounced in that right?
Lacedadianism, hyper conservative
and little known sect I grew up in.
I'm trying to leave, but don't know how, look into it.
It's fringe of the fringe.
Holy smokes, can you email me?
I'm curious to hear what this place,
what this, maybe it sounds like a cult, believes.
I'm putting my email in the chat at gmail.com.
Please, please do, please do email me.
I need to figure out what the heck,
I think I've heard this, but I could be wrong.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, oh my gosh.
My, man, everybody's here today.
You guys know that the end is near.
I knew you'd heed my warning.
This is amazing.
If you have not subscribed to the Inquisitive Bible Reader
and skeptics and scoundrels, you're going to hell.
Like eternal conscious torment kind.
Okay, so we don't want that on being funny.
But seriously, I hope that everybody will subscribe
to the people I'm promoting here
because they are inspirations to me.
Seriously, it's a Finnish Lutheran sect.
What do they believe?
Email me, I want to hear some crazy stuff that they believe
that I'm sure there's going to be some crazy stuff.
And then, yeah, no problem for the shout out, my friend.
I want to grow our community.
We are the body of open-mindedness
and some of the hand and some of the feet
and some of the head and some of the fingers
and some of the elbow.
Anyway, enough of that.
Hell no, Derek, you're spot on.
I hate ivory table teachers who you can't comment on.
Look, I get hate comments all the time.
You just, my skin's at least three inches thick
at this point.
I don't know.
You can't even see my veins anymore
because my skin just has to be thick.
It happens over time.
Look, Peter says, this guy, I swear he's spiritual
despite his persona, black out loud.
I think I'm just fricking down to earth
and I feel and I relate and I understand and I get it.
And I don't know.
I've kind of like just, I don't know,
lots of experience with lots of different areas.
Oh my gosh, holy smokes.
God is here.
Mr. Deity is in the chat.
We need to talk.
Yes, we do, my friend.
You have such an awesome channel.
I love listening to your recent stuff,
going at, what's his name?
Holy crap, help me out.
Let's have a conversation right now
because I'm blanking after this hour and 45 minutes
ranting, imagine how hard that is
to sit there and talk the whole time.
I'm getting dehydrated while speaking,
but huge fan, I'm a huge fan of yours.
Wow, and a lot of the work that you're doing is needed.
We need someone to go back and critique.
What is the work?
Help me out here, everybody.
Well, hold on, I just lost you here.
Okay, Tom Holland, golly.
I'm terrible, forgive me, God, I'm sorry.
I did not mean to make that mistake.
Will you please show me some mercy?
A little, just a little, please God.
I love your name though, seriously, Mr. Deity.
It's an awesome one and your sarcasm is contagious.
You'll be saying something,
and then the words on the screen right next to you
are the opposite of what you just said,
but you're saying it sarcastically.
So I know that you mean what you're saying here,
but you're saying this, it's a fun channel.
Make sure you subscribe right here.
There you go.
Thank you, James, for the link,
way of the master, Todd Frill.
Yeah, who else loved the Tom Holland stuff
if you've watched it?
And then also, again, the inquisitive Bible reader,
this guy is just as weird as me.
I mean, if you want weird, you got it.
Just go subscribe.
He's getting into like Canaanite ball
and like going into Tiamat and Leviathan
and the origins of the chaos dragon.
And the next thing you know,
he's talking about another myth and another thing
and diving deep into Sodom and Gomorrah
and then he's going into another story.
I love it.
I love him.
His work's amazing.
In fact, just tease everybody.
He actually wrote another script for a documentary
I'm gonna be presenting here on MythVision.
Links will be in the chat when we go to present it.
But in that one, let me move my screen here.
Let me make sure I have Melchizedek.
We're going into Melchizedek together.
He has a different interpretation
than Dr. Robert Cargill, I imagine,
but we're getting lost in the myth now.
We're gonna have some fun.
Tritark, do you think deism will overtake Christianity
as more people leave the church?
I don't know if it'll overtake.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know the answer to that question.
I imagine more and more people will become more liberal
in their approach as time goes by
and how they interpret these things.
I would imagine fingers crossed
because I think we have a lot more in common
than we give ourselves credit for
when it comes to people who may say they're Christian
or identifies Christians.
I mean, let's be honest.
They're not Christians.
According to the radical fundamentalists,
so they're just as heretical as we are.
Why can't we love each other?
I think it's important,
but I think deism is a more respectable position
if one is trying to look at all the problems
that come with deism, but even then,
I'm like, I don't know.
There's so many rabbit trails you can go down,
in my opinion, and you still have to deal
with the teleological issues with evil,
and for me, it's like, what?
Did this God not know?
Was he not omniscient?
And he made everything and the ball started rolling,
he disappeared and he has no involvement.
And I say he, because I'm used to using a male pronoun
for God, but you know what I mean, it.
But that, for me, is like,
is it just not know what it's doing?
There's so many possibilities of explaining it.
I don't know.
I don't know how that will play into Christianity
in the future.
Mr. Deity knows, because he's God.
We should ask him.
Of course, I'm teasing everybody.
Matthew K, nobody is as weird as you, Derek,
but we love you for it.
Please do drink some water, my friend.
For you, Matthew, cheers to everybody
who's enjoying a cold one, a soda, a drink, whatever,
taking our break together.
Cheers.
I needed that.
I needed that, like bad.
Thank you for recognizing
how bad I had it going on here.
Jesus wanted us all to be single,
virgins waiting for the husband, which he is, Papa.
I always had a hard time with that as a Christian.
I'm not gonna lie.
Like I came from a very traditional patriarchal family
and imagine being a conservative
and like sitting there in church going,
I'm your bride, I'm the bride of Christ, I'm his wife.
And I'm like, it didn't match.
Like something didn't make sense to me.
It never made sense to me.
Why are we gonna be his wife?
What's going on here, alpha men?
Where's my alpha men at?
You know, like, so if you're interested
in hearing a little on that,
Francesca's book, God and Anatomy goes into why,
what is going on with this problem in the New Testament
and her view of the bride of Christ?
And maybe there's some fossils remaining
or some remnant of something left over
from the Ashura Yahweh stuff.
And then the, what we say is wisdom,
the female wisdom who becomes the new kind of creation,
but maybe not created always there with God
from the beginning with Yahweh.
So it's like, here's the wife of God
that's been demythologized in a way.
And then this motif finds its way into early Christianity.
I don't know, I don't know.
So she goes into it and I can't remember
exactly everything she wrote, but there's a little plug.
I had to do it.
No chance the church is growing
in less developed countries by leaps and bounds.
I don't know what that response was to Kip,
but daddy blasphemy says this is true.
Muslims are growing exponentially due to birth rates.
Mr. Deity says, thanks for all the shout outs.
Hello to everyone.
I have to say goodbye.
Gotta get my new vids up to the patrons in 54 hours.
Yikes.
Yo, if you, I'm gonna put it like this.
If you want to see this stuff,
support the people that make you happy,
support the people, become part of their family.
And I'm just gonna give you a shout out,
Mr. Deity on this level.
I saw your video where you need to be able to,
in order to keep doing what you're doing with your channel,
you're gonna need more help
and people who can support someone like you,
who has the values that you express
and is trying to educate people and stuff.
Get behind someone like that.
That's my advice to people who have the capability
of supporting someone, do it.
Get behind the people I'm plugging,
the scholars we bring on.
We need that kind of support to make this happen.
I wish we had, I wish we just had this influx of money
like Christianity has and the Pope has and et cetera, et cetera.
But we have not had power for ever.
I don't think there's ever been time
where there's been that kind of power.
So I don't know, you could argue that atheist Russia,
but that's a different beast to try and go towards
that we're not interested in trying to,
it's not a good look.
It is not, run, scrolling down here, scrolling down.
Dism is a pit stop for people too afraid
to admit they're atheist, Mr. Matz says.
Oh, oh, super chat.
We need to have another session with you on Robertson,
apostate prophet and David Wood,
give us a light day of debating for the cross.
Hold on, what?
What channel was this on?
We need to have another session with you.
If you don't mind, is it on Robertson?
What channel was it that I was on
that you're saying we need to have another session?
If you don't mind, I'm paying attention to the chat.
So I'm gonna try and see what I'm looking at.
I'm waiting and waiting and waiting.
But let's see, apostate prophet and David Wood
give us a light day of debating for the cross.
They have a interesting dynamic, both of them.
They found common ground, of course, over against Islam
and they have fun doing that.
So I can't knock people for wanting to do these things,
but you know me, I think Christianity,
I think Christianity has many problems in different ways.
Apostate Roadshow, help me out, maybe you email me.
I don't remember, honestly,
there's so many different channels that I pop on
and I apologize for not remembering off the top of my head.
Marty Blanks, thank you for becoming a new member.
You are now saved.
How do you feel?
Feels good, doesn't it, to be born again?
It's amazing, it's amazing what can happen
when you become a member, so amazing.
All right, where are we at?
Where are we at?
Oh my gosh, Professor Sargent Jams, who loves math?
I'll be back.
I must confess, I got the calculus
as a senior in high school and I was flunking it,
my first half of a senior being a senior in high school
because I was skipping school, smoking weed,
doing all that kind of stuff.
And then I pulled myself out, they didn't count it against me
and I came back to do 12th grade.
I got the calculus and I was like the math guy
in my family, right?
It's been 2007, it's been like almost 20 years.
I can barely do fractions.
I mean, I need a calculator, okay?
Like I have lost all that goes into computing
and the rules and the, there's so much.
And I just, if you don't use it,
you lose it kind of thing for me and that's what happened.
Not saying I couldn't learn it again and I may one day,
I just, I lost it, I lost the powers of math.
And you know what they say,
once you lose your salvation, you can't get it back.
No, thank you so much for that super chat.
I don't know who was in here loves math, I'm curious.
Derek, you gotta use it, someone said.
Yeah, I know, I know.
I don't know how to use it anymore in terms of that.
I'd have to start back at like basics
and like teach myself again.
Oh, hold on, Andrew's got a super, got an interesting,
it's funny when Christians make fun of the Koran
for having so much violence and religious warfare.
I think, you know what I think.
I mean, obviously the Bible's loaded with this
and look at history, the way that the world was
at the time that Islam came on the scene,
like warfare was instituted.
I mean, you had the Christians fighting
against Persia at the time, for centuries.
They had already implemented this political Christianity
and they're already making warfare part of their whole thing.
In fact, there's Stephen Shoemaker,
Stephen Jay Shoemaker writes about this.
He deals with Mary, he deals with apocalypticism
going through the ages all the way up to Islam
and how he thinks that, again,
that old apocalyptic early Islamic thought with the Koran
and the expectations of Muhammad and stuff as a prophet.
But the idea of fighting Jihad is not new to Islam.
Dying in battle is something
that was already going on in the Christian church.
It's just their battle was kosher.
It's like the famous,
anyone who heals someone, they're a magician or a sorcerer,
which is like a pejorative, which is a negative.
It's a derogatory word, but our guy's a saint.
Our guy's a prophet.
Our guy's a messiah.
Your guy's a witch, a warlock, sorcerer, a magician.
It's in group, out group language.
The same happened with the idea of if you die,
fighting on behalf of the kingdom of God,
fighting in the kingdom of God,
fighting for our rights and our nation or our peoples,
you'll go straight to heaven dying in combat.
That was something already established.
And Stephen J. Shoemaker brings that up.
So I'm talking about Christians in a New Testament context,
not just talking about what was going on with the ban
in the Old Testament in Joshua's conquest.
So I totally agree with you.
And I think we should be fair in recognizing history.
Christians were not gentle throughout history like that.
There were some like any group,
but the majority often weren't, and it was violent.
And I'm saying that was just,
lots of people were like that, but not all, not all.
So I can confirm that Mrs. MythVision podcast
keeps the books in that household.
Yes, you know this is a fact.
She is the genius mathematician in the house.
And I'm telling you, I used to be aware of all this stuff
and then doing full page equations
and all that kind of stuff based on alphabet mixed in
with numbers and all that.
And I literally forgot how all that works, literally.
God gave you math, now it's gone.
I have no problem telling you,
I just don't care for the misconception of the time loop.
I don't know what that is.
I love money and you need math to count it.
Master Bleak or Black, remember when Jehovah hits you
with the whip to respond with smack me daddy.
I'll remember that.
I think I'm gonna remember that for sure.
Oh gosh, okay, where are we at?
Scrolling down, this is modern academic consensus.
What is Master Bleak?
The scholar consensus is that Jesus is historical.
So is John and James.
Okay, I think I've, like I think
that I've expressed myself.
I wanna do more visits in person with academics.
I wanna do more courses with academics
to help promote their work and to teach the general audience.
This is all I wanna work on.
I've got documentaries all year coming.
I wanna keep doing that.
Wanna do more engagements, more deconversion stories.
Everything I did last year, but on steroids.
I wanna do it even more.
That's my goal.
I wanna do a lot more of the documentary stuff too,
because that helps the channel get growth
and gets people who wanna just sit back
at the end of the night, turn on a documentary
and just learn what you would find
in some of these books behind me.
But done in a way that's more easily digested
and not having to read it yourself.
That's what I'm hoping to do.
I hope everybody goes and subscribes
to all the YouTubers I mentioned,
because every single one of them are great, amazing people.
I think Stacey's Mom's podcast,
makes you subscribe to her,
makes you subscribe to everybody, all of them.
That way we have a community and we grow.
We need that.
We need that.
More visits, more engagements, more documentaries,
more myth vision.
AR, I will try to have these more often
where I come and hang out with you and talk.
And I just, I don't know.
That like last minute letting you know we need to talk
and letting you know that I love you
and I hope that you're having an okay time
because life is hard for people.
If you're having a great time, awesome.
Spread the love, spread the excitement,
give it to someone else.
Because if someone else I can guarantee you
that's going through a valley,
that's going through a dark, dark time right now
in their life and they need that.
So just think about those people who suffer,
who are having a hard time and try to give them some love.
I live, that's my philosophy.
I give away to get.
And it makes me happy like the other day.
I feel like it's important I give this lesson.
I'm not saying this to brag.
I'm saying this because it's an important thing
just yesterday actually.
One of my, like one of my mom's best friends named Wilma,
I pretty much call her my grandma.
She celebrated her 80th birthday.
We went to breakfast and everybody got the check.
We were going to divvy the check up, divide it up.
And I just went up to the counter thinking
that it was just me and my three, my wife
and then the two kids that I was paying for.
And it just turned out I get back to the table
and they're like, hey, where's the check?
And I didn't even know that I paid for it.
And it felt good inside to know that I had just paid
for everybody's food.
And I didn't even know that I did.
And they were like, oh, you just paid for our food.
You didn't have to do that.
And I was like, I didn't even mean to do it.
And it didn't bother me at one bit.
I guess do something good.
Dennis McDonald is coming tonight at 9 p.m.
He'll be flying in and he always says,
create something good today or something great today.
Create something great today.
So yeah, just be a good human.
Show love, show empathy, show kindness,
try to feel where other people are coming from
as much as you can.
As long as they're not being ugly, that's what I say.
Those are my tips.
That's what keeps me happy.
That's what keeps me happy.
Okay, making sure I didn't miss anything.
Sparky madness in the house.
Holy smokes, Darlene, I love you.
Thank you for the shout outs.
Keep going.
I know that you say it publicly.
So I know that you have no problem me saying it.
She's going on 60 days sober, everybody.
That's when you are like me and Darlene
and you look for vices to escape reality.
That's like a miracle, a naturalist miracle.
Go, go Godzilla, I love you.
Thank you so much.
And again, like the other night,
you know why I sent you that 60, right?
Because five tables didn't tip you
when you were working your tail off,
making sure they didn't even need to ask you,
I need a refill, I need food.
Like I know that feeling, my wife was a waitress
and she would go and she'd have these nights,
she'd come home and she'd be really hurt.
Her feelings would be hurt and she'd be like this table,
a people made a mess, they were loud,
they were hard to deal with
and they didn't even tip me and they walked away
and it pisses me off to hear that people do that.
Don't go eat at a restaurant.
If you don't have the money to be able to pay the person
who's trying to serve you, don't do it.
Just save your money, eat something else
that doesn't require a tip or something.
There's my little vent tirade against people like that
that do that, but that's why I did that.
Again, like show someone kindness
because someone needs it, people.
Someone fricking needs it and I mean that.
The Stacey's Mom podcast, thanks for the shout out.
I felt bad after thinking about it.
I didn't shout you out in your YouTube channel
and that's why I was like, hold up, hold up, hold up.
I remember seeing it, I need to mention this
so she doesn't hate me, but go subscribe to Stacey's podcast.
You are so wonderful in this community
and here's why you wanna subscribe to her podcast
in my personal opinion.
She's doing de-conversion stories.
She's talking about real life, everyday type stuff
that people really relate to
and there's so many girls that are on there with attention.
Look, we have all this guy after guy after guy on my channel.
I can't help that most scholars are men in academia
but we can start helping by giving more attention
to the academics who are cutting edge,
brilliant female scholars out there.
I say the same thing for YouTubers.
Look at how many guys came through today
that were showing love and hey, hey, hey.
Well, we need to start showing the girls
who have great YouTube channels
and doing great things, some love as well.
So go subscribe to her.
I plan on being on it and being interviewed.
So you can go mock me and clown me on that show
when it happens.
Of course, you can always show us love, you know what I mean?
But seriously, I do appreciate it.
We have a wonderful community and I'm done preaching.
Hallelujah.
I'm done preaching, yes.
James, she has an amazing, amazing channel.
What kind of God would create a hell
in which I am making spaghetti for the masses
but no one knows how to get here?
That's, I know.
I don't know how to get to your house.
I know that it's like, what, five hours,
four and a half hours away from me
and you're making spaghetti
and I am not there right now eating it?
This is ridiculous.
That's a fact, James, that's a fact.
Sparky Madness, you're awesome for doing this, brother.
Well, subscribe to Sparky Madness, everybody.
Go show her some love.
Can I say one more thing
while we have 358 people watching?
Everybody in the chat right now just say yes,
you could say one more thing, Derek,
and then you can go use the bathroom
because you've had to go for 30 minutes
and go eat your dinner.
Everybody in the chat just say yes,
you could say one more thing.
And if you say I could say one more thing,
then I'm gonna say one more thing
because you gave me permission.
Okay, let's see some people saying
that I could say one more thing.
If you give me permission, I'll do it.
I'll do it.
Hold on, okay, AR says one more thing.
Yes, laugh out loud, because this is serious.
Yes, yes, say one more thing, then eat and piss.
Kip's house is in Canada, yes.
Yes, you could say one more thing, Derek.
I am one of the 40.
I think that's yes.
Yes, you can.
One, I interpret that as yes.
Say one more thing, Eric says.
Yes, say two more things.
My bladder might crunch.
Colombo.
Okay, yes, John Williams says,
there's her YouTube channel, subscribe,
and I'm gonna tell you why.
Say half a thing, someone says say half a thing.
I can respect that half.
I can totally respect that.
And one more, there's so many more comments here, okay?
Lots of people are saying, say another thing.
I mean this.
I'm not just saying this.
I mean everything I've said tonight.
Everything you heard me say, I mean it, times a million,
and I wish I could plug it in and let you download it
and feel what I'm saying.
But eight years ago, I got off of heroin.
I was addicted to heroin.
I was absolutely hopeless.
I thought I was gonna die.
I mean this.
I thought I was gonna die.
And I almost accepted that fate.
And I just saw this guy on YouTube make this video
where he was struggling and he was withdrawn
and I didn't feel alone.
I did not feel alone.
I related to him.
And then he did another video
where he was four days off of the stuff.
And then he did another video, it was seven days.
And then he did another video, it was 20 days.
And then he did another video, he was one month.
And I remember seeing him at one day
and then I saw him all the way up to his 30.
His face was like, there was no dark rings under his eyes.
His face glowed and it gave me, I went, oh my gosh,
he could do it.
He did it, he's a month off.
If I can make it to a month.
And it inspired me.
I picked up my phone.
I turned it on and I was laying on my couch
and I just said, my name's Derek Lambert
and here's a little bit of the shit show of my life.
And I started to lay out my dirty laundry
and talk about my struggles
and just had open confession to the world about my life
in hopes that it would inspire others to also do the same.
And it did.
And eventually though, the guy that inspired me
whom I called out, he overdosed and died
a year and a half after I started the channel.
Now here's the point of what I was trying to get at.
Every single positive comment,
every time someone left a comment about
how inspirational, how positive, how happy,
how proud they are of me,
every single one of those comments added the chink
in my armor of becoming the warrior
that I needed to be staying strong
and never using drugs again.
Every one of those comments became a piece of my halo
into becoming a saint.
Every single comment that gave me desire
to go another day.
And that way I could take care of my wife
and my kids and myself, most of all,
because if I don't take care of me,
I will never be able to take care of them.
Those comments go so far and inspire people
who are YouTubers so much that I encourage people to do it.
So I go back to my point about turning comments off.
If you know negative ones are coming,
I can understand that with Lydia McGrew
wanting to turn off the comments,
especially when she knows some heavy hitters
are coming to be critical.
But I also see why it'd be annoying.
Why put yourself out there when you know
that you're probably gonna get a lot of negative stuff.
So I say that to say, go to Sparky Madness,
go to Stacy's mom podcast,
go to Inquisitive Bible, go to Kip Davis,
go to Digital Hammurabi, go to every single one,
Skepic and Scoundrels, go to all my friends,
go all the YouTube channels,
and just keep that in mind when you have the time
about this, what I just said to you,
drop a kind word,
drop a positive inspiration or something,
say, hey, you helped me today,
or say anything, anything, show them some love,
I swear, I know from experience how much
that makes that day better.
And we only live in the now, you make someone's day better.
I'm not kidding, I'm dead serious.
That goes for anyone and everyone.
So that's the most real thing I could say
if you're online and you're talking to other YouTubers,
be kind and show them some love,
because I promise you it helps.
Now some of these YouTubers have so many people
commenting on their live streams,
and you know, you want your name, you want attention,
you want them to shout you out,
you want them to give you some attention and stuff,
and I get it, I do it myself,
I'll go on a huge million, two million subscriber live stream
and I'm trying to get my name out there,
but then I realize, hold up, hold up,
my friend over here with 2,000 subscribers,
with 5,000 subscribers,
like they need me more than that person needs me.
It's so I try to go show them some love, encourage them.
That's the thing, you know,
that's the thing I try to do at least.
Anyway, I love y'all, I love every single one of you.
Hey Derek, love the show brother.
Thank you, Steve, thank you, Crystal,
you are ride or die from the get seriously.
I love you, love all of you.
So do you believe the saying once an addict, always an addict?
Jay, I believe it, even if it isn't true for me,
so I don't go back to using.
It's not a shameful thing to me.
I don't think an addict is a bad thing.
Meaning, I don't look at it as a derogatory thing.
I think there's potentially biological genetic
or even psychological things where we call that a disease.
It's, you know, people who actually have changed
how their mind works and stuff.
So I don't think it, I don't look at it as a bad thing,
the same way I would look at mental health illness
or someone who's diagnosed with something.
I look at the same category.
I know that a lot of times people who are addicted
do things that are illegal or that cause harm to others.
And I understand that, I did not mean,
like I didn't have ill intent when I did the things
that I did back when I was using.
So I know you didn't ask that, but I'm making the point.
As far as the science goes, I don't know.
There's some people who seem to recover and never turn back
and they just never have that problem.
I have convinced myself of a myth.
I've told myself, Derek, if you ever use again, you will die.
That's what I've told myself.
Now I know that in my mind, I create little caveats.
If I break a bone and I go to a hospital,
they're going to prescribe me something.
I'm going to like request the doctor
to either keep me there until the fog lifts
and I don't have that in my system anymore
or lock me up in my house and make sure
that I am not able to get out and I do not hunt
and try to find the shit because I don't want to end up
going back down that dark road that I once went down.
It was the worst experience of my life.
There's never been anything in my entire life worse.
There's nothing that can get that dark.
Literally death, hopeless, dark,
and there's no way to put it into words.
You just experience is the only way.
It's like a living hell.
Anyway, I don't know the answer to that question
ultimately though.
We love and respect you, man.
Indo, I love and respect you as well.
I guarantee if we took the 360 people in this chat
and found out what they believed
or what they thought about.
So we'd have like everybody disagree on something.
Maybe a lot of overlap,
but like everybody disagree on something.
So I love you.
I gotta go.
I have to pee.
Sorry to be frank, I gotta go.
All right, everybody, please hit the like button.
Subscribe.
If you haven't subscribed to this channel
and subscribe to everyone else's channel.
Holy fricking smokes.
We got a super chair.
Great job on your channel.
You're on the right track from the Yahad.
Keep the good work, brother.
Thank you.
Appreciate the love.
Yaddan, is it Yaddan?
You corrected me last time.
Zedik, Yaddan Zedik.
Forgive me if I butchered it.
Thank you for that love.
And then seven seven base.
Love your show.
Keep up the good work, brother.
Thank you so much.
Appreciate that.
I love y'all.
I have to go.
Bladder.
Bladder cries.
Peace.
Show some.
