Mirror, mirror on the wall, who's the cringiest of us all?
Welcome to MythVision Podcast, I got Gnostic and Formit in the Hizzy, and I got Deep Drinks
podcast joining us.
It's like 3 AM over there.
Yeah, 4 AM now, but yeah.
Okay, you're that cringe.
That's how cringy you are.
We started the poll, and it's up to you to choose.
The power is in your hand.
Who?
Who among us three?
Hopefully, you can change your vote, I think, along the way.
You might go, damn dude, you are, and then next, oh no, no, no, you beat him.
I'm going to have to go with this guy.
And then we're just going to have fun kind of roasting ourselves today, because some
of the stuff we've said, some of the things we did.
It's all part of what we have experienced, and so I hope that you can have a laugh with
us.
Don't take it too personal.
I did pin in the comment section to subscribe to Gnostic and Formit, subscribe to Deep Drinks
podcast, help both of our guests, and of course, you know how you can help us here at MythVision.
So let's have some fun for once.
We're always so serious, but nothing better than making fun of yourself.
Right.
So don't take it personal.
Let's get started.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill, and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill, and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
All right.
CringeFest, here we go.
I feel like I have to address this.
Again, the red pill is not political in any way shape or form here
And David, I think you're muted. Are you muted? No, you're not I thought you were trying to laugh there for a second
But that's pretty cringe that I didn't hear you laugh. All right, you're already winning
Yeah, but that just keep you got to keep it because that intro is amazing
I hate that it's been it take the red ball back because it never it didn't start off that it wasn't it never was it
No, it's come a thing. So I want to it's like me using Plato's cave. Okay. Yeah, Plato would have a hissy fit with the way
I use it because he wants you to believe in higher forms and an ultimate divine
I use it as waking up and their perception completely changing. So look, you know, I think that Plato would be like, hey
That's not what I meant. Cool. That's fine. You reuse it how you will but I want to make that point because
It's about waking up and realizing I've been wrong for so long on so many issues
Ethically my religious outlook how I've looked at morality all of these things and as a human we grow
We learn and I guarantee you in ten years. I hold the things now. I might go
Why didn't I see that sooner?
So today's cringe fest and I want whoever wants to clown themselves first, please
Oh, I look someone in the chat said I'm expecting some serious cringe
You better not let me down and I I might not even be able to watch this
It's so bad because it's myself obviously so let me go ahead and join jump on the screen
All right, this is my guys make sure make sure you keep in mind
You need to vote on who is the cringiest this yeah, this is like this is a competition to know I I saw that they
Yeah, and I was like, how dare you how dare you not invite me to this cringe fest
I am definitely the cringiest of them all this is a yeah, let's do it. All right
So I'm gonna play mine and you make it where the because you do this on your streams a lot and I always want to like fix it
Okay, there you go. That's better. It's full screen. We're good though. Yeah, that's better. All right
We're talking about before how socialism and communism they always promise a utopia
Utopia has never worked because men are fallen men are corrupt
And that's why it never actually works
But there was a utopia once in the very beginning and the only reason it was paradise is because God was the one running it
And that was the Garden of Eden so I'm gonna toss a two-kneel. Oh, no
You know garden of Eden
You can read it
You talk about that
This is this is something that all three we know this mythical place
There's Adam and Eve
They were in the garden and God told them here's the tree of life
Eat from that tree all you want
Is the tree here in the center right here? This is the only tree that you cannot eat
It's the tree of knowledge of good and evil. So
There's a lot of different ways to interpret that
Aspects here, you know, because this is we're talking about beginning
Well, you're at least granting the allegory or something
The guy in the light
He was pissed about this who the guy with the American flag
Look at his face, but I get I get weird though. You're right out the bat. You're like, ah, that isn't so bad. Just watch
Yeah, I know no no watch how bad it gets
Okay, you seem pretty happy right passed down from generation to generation watch
So you take it for what it is you can interpret it however you want
But if you actually break it down to what this really means now what happened when Eve took the bite of the apple
She her eyes opened and she was aware and she saw things with it and the serpent told her that you can eat this
You'll come as gods and you see over time now it was hiding more and more knowledge
Leads to more and more stresses more and more problems or more more population more and more disease
Technology which takes a more and more
Control speeds up and God warned Adam and Eve. He said if you eat this or you will surely die
He didn't mean you were gonna die instantly
Yeah, he meant the sin was gonna enter the world and the body would die
You see how we're trying to like make sense of it
And and but I do my research right and I love to read about the stuff
This is for a long time that hasn't changed about you. There's something that hasn't changed about you. Yeah
I've always been like well, I will
Sometimes other stuff like but in particular Genesis in the Torah and the Bible
The word they use and if you do if you pull out the Hebrew the the mesoretic text
Which is the official orthodox Jew Jewish version of the Torah, which is the first five books of the Bible and
the word that they use for Genesis or for
Knowledge for the now the tree of knowledge good evil is a word. Oh
My he moved out. Yeah, I'll if I in
Top, which is what if you don't put the dot in the middle of the top. It's a so the word is death
So the tree even knowledge is a tree of death. Dr. Josh is in the chat. Let's have dr. Josh tell you
This isn't this wasn't this didn't oh keep Davis in there
They didn't have screwed English was not even a language. Oh, I basically just try to make an argument that
By coincidence the Hebrew word for knowledge is also the English word for death and it was like some divine
Coded thing good matriah ish. Yeah, that's basically what I just tried to say. Wow
Like there's secret meaning in the words and etymologically God like preserved this little like fossil in
How fucking cringe is that though? Well, I almost didn't want to bring this video
I'm gonna have to I'm gonna have to say the the cringiest thing is I I know for a fact
That you're like really just a radical fundamentalist in this but you're still you're still at least willing to not take everything
This is towards the end this is not like this is okay, okay
I would say you're a Christian my last year. I see no difference between the content you make now and this this looks exactly
Can so we're bouncing back and forth look someone asks an interesting super chat
I do want to try and bounce right between yeah, yeah, yeah, like this is part of the cringe
What is the worst belief you held? Have you guys thought about that?
One time everyone was everyone was asking me like questions at school
I would you do this if you if you for God will you this for God will you this for God like when you go gay for God?
Like all this like just like stuff like 10 just last right and I said like the I said the cringy thing
I said I'd kill my entire family for God if God asked me to
And I and I was serious and I was like and I was like the point was like the point was like
I would do anything if I knew it was God like how could he turn down God, right?
Like he's a controller and master of everything, right? So yeah, I don't know if I can come close
I mean, I've literally thought okay there, you know, I have three sons. I've been a father for a long time
You're just now a new father, right David
Yeah, yeah, I'm four weeks old little baby Atlas Atlas Christopher after Christopher Hitchens McDonald
Wow, so I like I've been a parent for well my oldest son is 16 now
So that tells you how long I've been a parent and I've had to think about that Abraham scenario if God told me
To sacrifice him to kill my son with a with a blade
Would I do it and I'm not gonna lie to you guys? I've really tried to put myself in the shoes. I
honestly
it
Cognitive dissonance. There's a wall. It was like a moment where I was like
Like God would actually ask that like it just but then somehow I was able to accept. Oh, he did it to his own son
Wow, okay, good
You want to hear you want to hear a bad one? You want to hear a bad one? So I was a King James only Christian
So I tried to I tried to like make the King the English Bible from 1611 is the perfect computer one
And the way that the way I rationalize it. I said to myself
Hebrew is the father Greek is the son and English is the Holy Spirit
I
Think what the worst is that the worst part right like for me
I'd say if we're talking theology and not ethical or like how I saw ethics or the way I viewed people
I'd say the worst is that I saw certain people as like no matter what going to hell
They're just it's us versus them mentality tribalism one-on-one completely and so that I would say is the worst belief
Ultimately, whether that be someone in the LGBTQ community
Someone who doesn't agree with my interpretations, but the other thing is theologically I would say it was that God
It was the predestinarian position
Which I find to be biblical in some ways and it was God literally made vessels for wrath prepared for destruction
And like trying to realize that my God was like that that my God
Wanted some very few few find the path broad to destruction that many go few are the ones are chosen
But at the end of the day, you know, it was that theological thing
I'd say it was worse, but built inherently, you know, you got reprobates and sinners and like
The way we view humanity I'd say is the worst belief we held
I'm almost speaking for us three in my in my view is that we just viewed the other the world around us as this war
Warzone I used to think
That even though I was the one who in all the friends
I went to high school with who a graduate who went to school with and they're all getting good jobs and getting PhDs and getting
Degrees and I'm in prison
But I used to think oh because I was saved because I got stayed I had the right
I'm the chosen one. You're the one you should go
And they're all losers I'm the one who got right they're all they're all a bunch of sheep that
That's like I look back at that and I'm like wow that that's like that's insane
It's literally insane because you you want to make it you're trying to make yourself feel like you are smarter than everyone else
So Christianity does that for you Christianity is like you're chosen. You're it everyone else is a bunch of sheep and they're all going
They're all going to hell
Empowers you in that sense, you know
Yeah, I think some versions of it definitely do that and I'm not trying to defend I'm pointing out that there's such a variety
but I don't think either one of us came from that kind of like
Soft progressive more like live and let live dude, you know, we just want to love you. That's all it is
That we were serious about trying to understand what was going on
I was saying this to Neil on like Neil's channel yesterday that like it's like if you believe what you believe
Like I don't know how you can just like I don't know how
Christians
Who believe in heaven and hell can be like blase about it like I don't know. Hey, you like oh, yeah grandma's going to hell
I'm not gonna tell her about it. I'm gonna tell about Jesus or or like my friends like well. Yeah, it's fine
Like I don't know how anyone can do that like I was always perplexed by that like this life is nothing like compared to eternity, so
Right, you know, I just saw an atheist actually make a video
It's an old video that I came across on YouTube the guy who runs the magic shows those atheist guys that like have like a
They watch people trick them and want to see the slide of hand and they oh
Yeah, I know he talked about he made a video was just saying I have more respect for someone if I knew you were gonna get hit
By a car and I believed I knew you know that you're gonna get hit by a car and you don't go out of your way to do anything at all cost
To literally try to save someone from getting hit by that car that you know
They're supposed to get hit by could you believe in hell?
I have no respect for that Christian who thinks that people will go to hell and doesn't do a thing about it
So the point is and it sucks. I want to encourage people to stop thinking it's literally true
But there's this point in what you go. How serious are you about this?
And I think all three of us on the on the on the screen here were serious about that
Then we're like probably thorns and people's
Flesh so to speak because I was annoying
I mean, I really was almost harassing my family and my wife for years about
Taking this serious because I really believed it like 100% through and through
You should do a crossover with Jimmy snow. Who's that?
The line Jimmy's
Okay
You know, you know, I probably seen him the name doesn't you know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah
Ricky Johnson says an elder my former church preached against women wearing open-toe shoes in church foot fetish issues in the church
cringe
Dude, I have to say this my old my old youth pastor did this thing in a leadership retreat where he washed everyone's feet
like
Bucketball and did the old what yeah, God, I've done that multiple times with my family
Like get them in there get up. I swear on everything. We've done like our own communions at home
I've had buckets of water where I warm water and I take their feet and wash their feet
I'm not gonna lie. It was pretty strange at first
But I felt like it was like I was imitating my lord and like we were what I was trying to be like Jesus washing their feet
But you're real Baptist, weren't you? No, I actually became a Presbyterian which they sprinkle
But before that I was kind of in the vein
I think you say like Calvary Chapel non-denominational Baptist the
not like not like the Southern Baptist type of Baptist, but I went through their immersion baptism was what I believe but um
It does sound like
They're worried about men seeing feet and going
I
I'm gonna clip that little audio
You should I put some energy into that so that deserves its own clip
Yeah
Inquisitive mind wanted dead or alive Derek Lambert one million dollar bounty for his Islamic videos from the Taliban
Whoa, dude if there was a bounty on my head
for for me being critical of Islam like
That'd be nuts. I mean that I just had to call my dad. He's got like dad you got to bring all those guns
Yeah, dude, you actually this is a serious question
But do you guys actually like if you I've made videos where you know, I have a post it's come on
We criticize Islam or criticize their jet, you know, and I worry I'm like if I fly through Dubai
Am I gonna get in like trouble like am I gonna get like, you know detained or something?
Like do you worry about like had not been able to go to certain Muslim countries now? I
I've thought about that. I don't worry right now because honestly, I think there's a there's a sure. There's
Crazies, um
But like I don't think we're that big. Yeah, it's not like the governments that are it's more like individual like cells
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's not like no, it's not like the Egyptian government is gonna
Right, I mean you were there you were literally in in Islam, you know, no, I was pretty it was a good place
It was cool, but like yeah, I bet if it was where I ran, maybe
Or Saudi Arabia, I don't know man, they're starting to open up there
Yesterday's fight Jake Paul and and fury, right? So like they're starting. I feel like they're trying to be more
I don't know much about Sonya. I shouldn't I shouldn't speak. I mean you're you're not lying
I'm just trying to give them a bone. I imagine they're trying to open up and not be
Like they have been in the past. You know, they just legalized women driving. So
Little late there, but wrong
At least that's the right direction not the wrong direction. I don't know what country that is
I do know that there's some definite backwards stuff
I would say that we've we've got to work on to try and help people to make equal rights
It's simple like literally the liberty of rights for humans are restricted and you can think
Forms of that religion for it and I say forms because people in the West they live a different kind of Islam
So if I ever had like a fatwa as they call it and they're like putting a bounty on my head
Goodness gracious. I'd have to get like a VPN account. I'd have to like relocate somewhere
Make sure my dad lives with me green beret special forces, you know, dad stay on watch
You know hire some of his special forces retired buddies to help like
Like come on buddy bring it
But I would that's not my goal. I'm not like purposefully trying to
Stir the hornet's nest. I really want people to think critically. Yeah
Inquisitive mind the ghost of myth vision
Thank you
Max the professor. I wish I could debate cringe nil. I destroy him in a theology debate
I think we'd all be friends back when we're fundamentalist
Like do you think we would have all like met a church and like really got on or do you think I can I can answer that pretty well
What was your theology?
Passion no, what did you what did you what kind of Christian? Did you believe in free will God loves everyone?
I didn't care about any of that stuff. I just wanted to preach
I was a pretty turnist. I thought there was up there's fate and everything was to control. I thought that
I was like almost a Calvinist in my own sense in my own way
because I've had this weird belief that everything was a result of cause and effect from
The start of the creation that everything everything was planned out even right now. That's what I used to think
So I kind of I wasn't a Calvinist, but I I agreed with that way of thinking of that is all predetermined
So David, did you think people could lose their salvation? I?
I heard arguments for and against I wasn't really concerned. I wasn't really concerned with theology at all
I only like I just thought people needed to encounter God through a powerful experience and that God was calling us to make disciples of all nations
So like I would talk to it to like I remember hearing about
Some people who were kicked off ministry trips who were teaching that you need to be baptized of the
Water and the spirit. Otherwise you go to hell and he was teaching us like children who had other children die and
And say oh there in must be in hell then and he was rebuked and I was kind of like who cares
Let's just let's just get more people saved like who cares about these disagreements like even yeah, even Paul
You know the Bible some follow Paul some follow Paul like who cares bring it all bring it all back to Christ
Like that's mine. I was a bit of a hippie. I guess a hippie Christian
I think at some time in my journey like we might even agree in terms of our views of that and then eventually it was like
We need to take the serious God's word like what it says and like you should see this predestinarian or you should see that
The good work God had began in you. He will finish
You know
Sanctifying you to glorify you know
I took that whole theological stuff more seriously as time went by because I wanted to know what they thought so
I'm not saying we wouldn't got along
I was pretty good people person even through high school even to my religious phase
But I don't know how much of best buds we would have been if you weren't serious about that kind of stuff. You know what I mean?
Yeah, I
Don't know
One more here judge lot and then let's get to the videos again and Neil
Do you still want to continue sharing something from that or did you kind of?
If you want to go the next one, I'm totally cool with that like that was hard to watch right there. That was like
I was like
Well, you did a lot of that we could play 10 more seconds of it and see where I go with that if you want
I can't remember what I said after that, but yeah judge lot. Thank you so much for the super chat
I could totally use some more of Derek Bennett dancing. It was both cringe and cool
Derek Bennett just got in the car. Of course. I think he did he might still be upstairs. I'm not sure
He's going on a road trip heading back home. So
To to Kentucky and I hope everybody wishes him well
Derek's dancing is definitely an interesting sight. I'll say the least is he is not ashamed of his game, right?
So, thank you for those support. I really really appreciate it. Everybody in the chat hit the light
We got apostasy. We got kip Davis chat GPT
Callan bar and we got a whole bunch people ex music guitar dog pragmatic
Everyone I love you the Derek made me do it. I'm now
Equivocating or equal to Satan. Thank you so much. Thank you so much
Hey train everybody. I just want to say thank you. Sorry if I missed anybody, but we're just gonna keep the party going
How's how's how's the pole going is the pole? It's has anyone
How's the pole going? I want to see who's no one rode yet cuz we all used to know they have been voting
Yeah, I'm in the lead
50% Nils got 36 David's got 14, but that David we gotta give you a bump in those numbers right now
We see your guys videos yet. Yeah, so look we got to be fair
Let's be fair to David and then we'll come back to you nil and then we'll come to me
Okay, all right, so so good
Okay, um, is this you this is me back when I was like a lot thinner. I was like
918 here is 2008
Just I left school to do ministry college. So I'm in ministry college at this time
You were before I even guys say this is way before yeah, yeah, so this was this was like me and I'm talking
I'm trying to I'm preaching to about 60 maybe 60 or 70 youth in this youth building and I'm telling them about
You know eternity and I'm trying to come up with some like concept like
Like if you divide anything by if times anything by infinity it's zero
So like whatever we do now determines what we'll do for the future
But I really want people like take this seriously. I want to win this cringe competition and this is the cringiest clip I could find
Alright subscribe to deep drinks everybody David McDonald. Let's give him some love help support what?
All right, I'm making it full. Well, should we have our faces show look? Let's get yeah
Yeah, yeah, we play press one
If you want to see our faces while these videos are showing
Have to though because it got us to the cringe not necessarily because I could do this right here
Okay, yeah, the point is do you want to see us watching it? Oh, you've got it. I think so I say yeah
I want to I want to see so
Okay, okay. I
I want everyone to notice the lack of substance and the
And the amount of passion right so like so I think it's a friend and they said wow
It's like a two-minute clip and it's like divided by it infinity
It's like you said nothing like and I was like, yeah
Okay
Before you hit play there
I want to give you guys a chance this is myth visions channel
So at the end of the day like it's not fair if I'm getting more votes because it's like of course your fans of myth vision
You might vote for me. You might have a bias, right?
So I want factual accurate non-biased answering to who's the most cringe. I it won't hurt my feelings
I swear it won't hurt my feelings. So please go ahead
If you get anything and you do and you times it by eternity is zero
You know if you get a hundred years you times about turning zero
You know, they didn't have the mathematical ability to know that in the Bible times
But anything times that turn you say Jareth Lee leaves our lips to 24 years old, right?
24 times eternity is zero
So whatever we do in the zero time
Determines if we spend it in hell or if we spend it in heaven
I'm sorry to be really real, but but yeah, and it depends. It's not only that it depends if we get to
Heaven and everything being burned up when we be saved by grace or if we get to heaven and they say and God says
Well done. Good faith and servant. I know I want to get to heaven. You're a real believer
That's what I want to hear
I don't know what you want to hear pretty sure all you want to be the same
So let's start acting like it because we have revived the passion for eternity, but we're also passionate about eternity a
Passionate not for ourselves, but also for our friends. Our friends might be going to hell
Sad isn't it?
You wanted to sink in true our friends are going to hell
Okay, you can tell you can tell who's a real this that was a real believer right there. You could
Dude my my subscribers are just dropping off now people like I can't fucking know where I could ever subscribe
They're actually dropping now like they're like that's how I fell
Everyone's leaving the stream. Oh god, it's too bad. It's too cringe too cringe dude it hurts
It hurts to watch that like I just got you're expecting some Christian fire all the Christians that are watching are like damn
That was fire
Did you not get in I'm trying to find another I did it
Wondering though if the Christians are watching it, you know Christians watch this channel
Oh, you gotta wonder what they're thinking about these clips
Some of my use that for my arsenal now. I'm like I like that daffy. I'm gonna use that shit
Okay, I just go ahead I was just gonna sit like
First of all, it hurts like I feel it in my stomach like I feel like a pit in my stomach
I it hurts it really hurts to show that
It's so embarrassing, but then but but secondly like it's just you gets
You have to laugh at yourself. Otherwise you're just going insane, right? Like it's just like
Yeah cringe, did you did you get nervous speaking in front of groups like that?
So initially before I would go get up get up. I was nervous
But then when I was up there, I felt more comfortable than I did like sitting at home on like a cat
Yeah, once you get started. Yeah. Yeah
Well, I feel really good. Yeah, I hear you like I get that I get the same bubblegut before and I'm like my
I have to empty my stomach out before I get up there. I'm like freaking out
And in this one, I'm gonna show everybody. All right, so this is the first one I did I
Was at a Baptist church actually a southern Baptist church
Okay, oh
Let's see how cringe this gets and hopefully you can hear me. I hope
So and I'm gonna find another one later on once I became a full preterist, but here we go
I'm so I'm so freaking nervous here guys. I I literally was having an out-of-body experience. I was panicking so I had to pray
You need to you see if you miss Lord and destroy my pride
Let this message touch people and
Move in a way that people apply in their life what Christ taught and commanded
Lord you are you are good you've created all things
I
Just pray right now in the name of Jesus Christ the people here
You need to hear this do something with this that it touches their hearts
Who believe in your promises?
Yeah, you're the real deal
Blessed be the name of the Lord. Amen
Like to start with a story
Once upon a time there was a man who loved evil
He cheated on his wife and
He left his son
He craved steroids and thought of himself as a God among men
He snorted painkillers every day drank vodka until it didn't work anymore
Yet continue to do it he pawned almost everything that he owned
and
He took the money
Spend it on drugs
continued in this path until he ran out of money
Decided to go into his mother and his father's bank account
still over ten thousand
Dollars over a cumulative time
little by little being sneaky
He woke up hating life and
He had to keep the high he had to keep the satisfaction of the flesh if not
He didn't want to live. Oh
He stole his own wife's possessions and his own children's TV
He would lie still and think of ways of doing evil
He once said he wanted to break his own bones to be prescribed painkillers
He fought his own little brother for ten dollars ten dollars and he hurt him very very bad
This man was about to dive in overdose while snorting 150 milligrams of oxymorphone
Which is more powerful than morphine and more powerful than oxycodone
In the process of doing so this is synthetic heroin we're talking about
Then when a drunk and super high he was took the Roxy rehab
That's near the hospital. That's right down the street from where this is
I'm wondering how he got there
Do you guess where this man is headed? Can you guess where he's headed? He's headed to hell
This is my mind Eric. I have to nine months ago
This is me and I like my like real
How many pastors really go that deep and cringe in terms of how bad their life was and what they did
but we both got into we both got a Christianity in the same way as then we hit rock bottom and
Christianity was like speaking to us is like do you're you wretched so you can be saved too and you're like really me
Like it just worked like where we weren't the types that grew up in it
Mm-hmm, but like it was like a salvation thing that actually happened because of how bad our lives were so I
Yeah, I can like feel it from you like I oh dude, and I was so nervous
This was definitely not like this is my first time ever publicly speaking like this and later I go into scripture
You I just want to say quickly like I talk about you can't see me
No, I was gonna say I just want to say quickly like it started cringe for me like or whatever
But like I think you're you were so since see here that like and you're telling something so real that it actually
Nullified a little bit of the cringe for me like I think like I'm like I'd want to watch this like I'm gonna watch what this guy's got to say because
You actually you present so well man like you've got
This is what I get into like Calvinistic reformed in front of a southern Baptist
Church which they're not ready for that reform type Calvinistic stuff, but the point I was trying to say is
Like my whole message was I it wasn't me
It was Christ in me that empowered me right to the thing about Christianity it preys on the week
It's going when you're hurting going after a certain type of person and it's gonna
Suck on to that life, you know, I mean that whatever life is left and like that's that's where it turns you into a fundamentalist because it just
Like turns you upside down into something that it's crazy. It's a it's a it's a beast, dude
It really it's like a wild thing that happens to somebody who was in rock bottom who gets saved in Christianity
They become this I I know from experience you become this like
weird
Fundamentalist I'm just talking about myself here. Yeah. Yeah, so yeah, I get it
I totally get it dude. Totally get it. Look at this. Look at this without the beard
This is I'm beginning to say no
Yeah, bro, I've got a six-year-old grandson
Now let's just pose
After our afternoon pushing around as we do when we get together and that's my son
He just running out towards the street
Going out to the highway
He kicks his football out there and he runs chase it down
And I look at him. I said the Wilson don't go to the highway. You might get hurt
And he just ignores me keeps on running
And I say will please don't go to the highway. You're gonna get that over son
And I'm just standing there following that
And he knows me keep running. You were already at the wheel son. Don't go to the highway
Lester's that young hits I go get it
Oh, I couldn't do that. Oh shit
What do you mean you can't do it? Oh, I love him too much to interfere with his wheel
What stupidity
What stupidity
love
love is
Commitment to the good of its object and love that has the power to save will save
And if God loves everybody, he'll save everybody if he doesn't save everybody. It's cause he never loved everybody
So that what'd you think about that when you make a that was currently you were becoming a video editor
You were becoming a video editor already in that time
We use like what's that like Sony Vegas or like have a liquid for that like what was that?
Oh
The what what was the what editing software like oh that was a built-in iMovie that was in my mind
Yeah, that's what it seemed like that was ten years ago. Look right here ten years ago. Oh
Derek I have to I have to ask like a bit of a serious question sure
You know you struggled with addiction and stuff for ages. Oh, do you think that your belief?
Your your god-belief actually affected the your ability to kind of get out of that
You mean like lack of like my my no, no, you're you're you're actual god-belief because you yes
You kind of prioritize things differently, right? Like you're like I don't know
It's like you don't know where you don't know where to position your
Thought processes when you're dealing with that because you're like I've got to do with spiritual things
And I've got to do with it and like you know and like yeah
yeah
Yeah, so I I
Would switch addictions and I literally equate my experience
Deeply ingrained into Christianity and getting lost into its theology which I call mental masturbation
Because you can literally go in and just kind of get excited and think about complexities
This is how I feel about philosophy, too
When I listen to philosophy and like a guy can be a theist and then a guy can be an atheist and a guy can be a
Diagnostic and they come in they start using all these terms and and they're just like a lot of this stuff honestly to me
And I'm not saying all of it a lot of it is like fluff word
Salad and it's like bro. You're just playing in your mind. No God is a preconceptual
observational foundational proposition and I'm like dude
Like what are you even saying? So we do the same thing with theology. We're trying to like wrestle about free will and and
and
Predestination and all of that and I'd get lost in this world and I'd listen to Christian music and I'd get an
experience through that process that gave me a high it gave me
Satisfaction excitement to dive deep and I still enjoy this to some some extent today
It was really when I left when I actually started to recover. I was still a theist
But my knowledge started to expand I started to stop thinking there's only one way to the father and that is through the son
I started going maybe that's just a message for people at that time
Because I saw patterns in cross mythology
That started making me go God's bigger than just Jesus God is bigger than Yahweh God is bigger than Abraham and Moses
This is not a specifics only these people or only this particular deity through this certain path
This has to be bigger
Almost like the platonic God my God had to expand had to be bigger than that and that's because I started realizing like
I'm being I'm giving special favor to this story acting like Jesus is the only one when I started finding out there were several
Set Osiris dies and resurrects and is actually someone who gives eternal life
The kings would end up being
Becoming or at least grafting themselves into Osiris at his death
You start finding the stuff out as you saw in a recent video with caracuni
But I've been hearing this stuff for like five six years now
And I stopped playing the game that Jesus is the only one
So my view of God expanded which then really the power I was interviewed yesterday by Lloyd Evans
We went through my testimony
You know those little balls that expand and contract they're like Lego looking colorful little like oh, yeah
Yeah, yeah, well when they expand there's a lot of free space in the middle. There's no mass to it
Okay, it's just bigger, but it has no strength no mass
God got bigger and had less grip on me
As a person. Yeah, that's when I started going. Well, eventually when I started looking at science evolution and such
I started going like what's the difference between a natural world?
Like that doesn't have a God and a world that does have a God that I'm saying is like just this almost thing that started it all
And as it really I don't see a difference anymore
So I started going is there even a God but through that process over the last seven years. I've been off heroin
Mike
Deconversion has played a significant role on
Accepting myself for what I am as a risen primate a human being not a fallen angel not a fallen creature not a wicked
Individual in this flesh that I'm bound in I accept my flaws
I try to work on myself and I always will but I I no longer don't go to sleep at night wondering
Are you ever gonna be what you need to be is the spirit of God living in you?
And are you gonna meet that like you're gonna go to hell or heaven none of that and so that I
Became a better person in the process too
So I had a Christian recently do a response video against me
You guys know that Ruslan guy. Yeah
Well, he tried to make it well
He tried to make it a negative thing that I equated drug addicts with with Christians
I'm not saying all Christians are this way, but I made some parallel here. I am a human
You're using your own experience that you you notice I I get it
I don't look at drug addicts with negative
Lenses, okay. I know they're good people. They struggle with an illness
He does not even know the science behind the drug addiction
So he's not looking at humans who are in addiction as good people who struggle
As humans, okay, that's so funny. It is so when I made the the the parallel
I'm saying I know this I know what it was like to be high on Jesus and
To be high on drugs and I saw and I know from experience this parallel
He saw it went. How could you in his response? It tells me how he views people who are downtown
They're hooked on drugs to me. They are me
They are me. I will always be
Just that a huge a human with his imperfections and struggles and that's why I don't think I've relapsed
When I had to meet perfection when I had to have the spirit of perfection and I never could meet that goal
There was a shortcoming in a depression that came over me constantly wondering what my father and heaven thought of my ever-deed in action
Then when you realize what the hell? Why did I even think that that was true?
I was brought up in a Christian household
I went to church early
I had trauma from an alcoholic father and they promised me in that sermon that day that you have a heavenly father
I'm gonna do it like they did Derek
There's a heavenly father
Who's perfect who will never let you down and he sent his son?
somehow this made sense
To die for all those imperfections
To to take away that that that that depression that stressed those sins those lies that you've committed in the past
Come down to the altar tonight today, son, and I accepted Jesus and I had a warm
Overwhelming experience for the entire day that placebo effect was so powerful that I then knew God was real in my life
That's how powerful that placebo effect was in my life
I've been hogging the mic guys, so please um, it's great
Just just quit. Yeah, that's the beautiful
But um, it's actually beautiful that you've been seven years off a home, which is fantastic
But congratulations that I had the same issue with um
With like always in those men's clubs, right the anti-masturbation like clubs or whatever and it was always like start voting
Yeah
So it was always like, you know
I'm gonna do another panel on purity culture just just you wait
But I'm and I'm gonna bring in some experts and talk and have people on but there was there's always like, you know
There's like sleeping around then there's like pornography and masturbation and there's like thinking of women, right?
They're all just as bad, right?
So like I would you know, I would try and go days without even having a lustful thought or when I did have one
I would go away and pray about it
And then and then as a result I'd run around with um blue balls for like four days
And then I would like I need to go go go have like a seven hour binge fest watching as much
Degred porn as I possibly could right and it's like
There's some balance there's got to be some balance here, you know, I mean like yeah
I love what I had a hidden queen on we're talking about this and it's just like it doesn't have to be that big of a deal like you know
You know get them get up get in the shower have some fun
You know get out and move on with your day doesn't have to be like this big like earth-shattering like things
So yeah, I was a bit the same but with touch myself
I think we all struggled that
Who doesn't I used to go you look I gotta you said it Neil
I want you to jump into this too because you got to be honest transparency is key here man cringe
Remember cringe. We're making fun of ourselves and I and I it's it's
While we're making fun of ourselves, there's a serious relational aspect to this as a human
You know as a man and I suspect women feel the same way
We had a Trojans for Christ Christian group at our public school public school and each morning we'd meet up and I
dude
pornography like my whole frickin youth since puberty up right and
I would go down like they would be hitting you with that message first to be praised and worshiped for a little bit
And then all of a sudden it's that
You know, they've got that music then all of a sudden it was like
The altar call kind of thing like are there hidden sins in your life that you need prayer for?
Bro, I like because and my dad has always told me this there's some wisdom in this
But there's a sense in which I guess my dad's different than me son. You don't need to tell everyone everything
Okay, you should keep some sick yourself
You stop being so honest and I'm like but when they tugged my heart
I'd go down there and like be like I watched I watched porn yesterday again
And they'd go you just came down like two days ago to get prayed for though
And I'm like, I know and then like the day after if I did it
I would be so embarrassed
I wouldn't go down that next day because it would make it a big thing
But I go down the next day after the next day and like I'd get prayed for all the time
Like literally thinking the demon the spirit of lust. Please leave me because we believed it was a spirit and
Yeah, they never got prayed for that's what they told me they weren't being honest because they never got prayed for it
They never know
That's where you and I differ because I was always trying to put up this persona that because I'm saved them
I'm perfect now, so I don't need to be prayed for I'm good. I'm saved and everything's fine
That I was one of I was one of the Christians that you're talking about had never got
Those guys you were at least being honest you were you were being real about it. You're a Pharisee Christian
Oh, it's fake. So I went my pastor had me on a on a website thing
We're like if he had my somehow we connected there's like a website I signed up for that if I watched porn
It would send it to his email so he could see what websites. I went to whoa. I'm not kidding
I
Covenant eyes that's it. Yeah, and dude after a while of me like really fighting this and not doing it
I finally realized your phone has incognito mode and then I was just like I'm gonna watch all the porn
He won't even know that I'm watching porn
Oh, I don't I don't friends help me with that think about house how
Messed up that could be if you're in a situation where you're like like there's a pastor and like a young boy and like he's
He's watching some shit and then the pastor sees it. Oh, he's into oh, let's do I can go and like there is that that's how they
Like, you know you guys get you guys read between what I'm saying, right? Yeah. Yeah, I
Found ways to like get I found ways to get around it so hecticly
I had a friend who installed software that was more crazy than coming eyes
I would take screenshots so they would see exactly what I'm looking at and not only that but I
One time reinstalled my entire fucking operating system to get rid of this program
So that I can have like a couple of weeks where I could just like be totally free of my friends prying eyes
And it was it is ridiculous and another thing is like this actually affected like my relationship because when my wife
And I got together was still practicing Christians and for me confessing was like a big thing
So every time something would like every time I would quote-unquote mess up
I would confess it to my wife like to Amy and she's just like like I don't care like stops telling me this
I don't care like this is kind of weird like just you know, whatever like it's not like but I was just like
I'm sorry, you know like and it would always be like this like repenting to God repenting to Amy and like that like and it
Was just like an Amy's like I don't care like just you don't have to tell me like and I'm like but I have to like it
It was horrible man like this the purity culture fucks people up. Sorry. Yeah, not it's not normal. It's just not
You know and like yeah, there's a lot of abuse happening because of shit like that for like people telling their pastors shit like
They're you know telling them their secrets and all that stuff and then the pastor could like they can find their
That's how a lot of this abuse happens from shit like this
Yeah, what if your pastor approaches you and says listen, can I talk to you in confidence and then you're like sure
I'm into the same things that you are
What if you said like this
Even though we're laughing that shit's happening right? Yeah
Yeah, we're having fun though
I know I'm taking a serious subject and making it
It really it really happens all the time. Oh man, but you know the church either
It's a lot of different churches that do that shit
I just think that what ultimately this boils down to agree or disagree here
And I'd love to get these super chats and then continue the cringe because I know you guys want to over you have to like bring more out
I know you guys
Fair that I get to hog. You saw how much it shows. Yeah, okay. We got to change the voting here
I want to see those numbers start to change. So you work on that. I want to make one point
You don't really have to think hard about this while you're multitasking
We all agree that this is the shame and the guilt that comes with the Christian message, right? It's clear
That that kind of guilt that comes with this and not just realizing we're humans and this is natural and actually normal
That normalizing this
Actually is taken away the obsession
Like I don't obsess
It's like this is not something like I have to do
There's the cookies over on the shelf that warm hot chocolate chip cookie, but you're not allowed to touch it
Don't you dare touch that cookie? It's like
Actually, this is totally normal and I don't get guilt and it's not a shame game anymore and my wife
Like we've opened up in our relationship in ways that we've never been able to communicate with each other on things
Like it's just so much freedom has come from not having to sit here and live this kind of rigorous self
Destructive my flesh is the enemy kind of mindset. It's totally changed for me. What about you guys?
Well, I mean, it's you're not married, but you know, like it's well, no because the the idea that there's
Something like there's like a freedom about not having a a like
Not having like like what do you call? I guess you call a dog in the race like you're not trying to argue for a religion anymore
We're not trying to make something make sense. We're just going where the evidence leads us
Like and that there's something way more freeing about that and there is about getting saved. That makes sense
I'm ironic. It's the other. It's actually we're like, oh, I'm free now. I'm saved like but it's actually like this
It's you're actually becoming enslaved by this idea completely enslaved by an idea. I feel that you know
Micah Volin says what do you think the historical Jesus was like or did he even exist at all?
Blonde hair blue eyes
Six feet
You know
I'm here
My gosh your trip
obviously not. Um, I
Don't know what if I were to guess because it's purely a guess, right?
I would guess the guy had to have been somehow impactful a charismatic figure in some way shape or form enough that his father
followers were
Were sucked in by the message, you know, he could have been a Jim Jones type. I mean he could have been some
Because he even Jim Jones was like one of the earliest
In america was one of the earliest churches that had like
Blacks and whites in the congregation together like praising god and stuff
So there are some things that were groundbreaking about his church and eventually they drank the kool-aid
So yeah, he probably was he probably was bringing some sort of new ideas that were
heretical at the time
For him to be like killed for it. But at the same time he probably was like
very much
Uh fundamentalist type but also, you know, very charismatic very into it
I'm not gonna I would say probably educated because
I'm educated people don't just have this type of uh following
And I think he might have predicted some things that have that that that turned out to be true
Just by chance and my this is this is my personal wild speculation
Obviously, I'll never be able to prove this. This is not from any sources
But I think the reason why we started seeing gospels after the 70
Is that he might have predicted the temple falling
And then the temple fell and all of a sudden holy shit. Jesus was right and then all of a sudden that's what that to me
Makes sense of why of why we get gospels after 70
I think I think if I think jesus I like to I I don't know how historical this is. This is just my
My feelings these are feelings over facts guys, but this is um
I like to think of him more like the Buddha uh in that like he had some like interesting philosophies
rooted in the context of his time
And then it was his followers that kind of took it and run with it and like kind of
Spending into more than what it actually was or what he was trying to say, I guess
like I think even um
Like one of my friends at school said um, yeah, jesus was a good bloke, but it's his followers that fucked it all up for him
It's like, okay. That's an interesting perspective
I mean, I think both of you were kind of touching the same thing in a way
Um, that they that would be the case or he may not have existed. I don't rule that out. I just don't it's possible. Yeah
yeah, I don't
For me the evidence seems to lead that and why I would be critical
Not this doesn't prove your position. It's not the case nil
But I would be critical because I don't find in paul unless you take paul's later what people recommend is like later
um
I don't I don't think paul knew about the destruction of the Jerusalem temple
And I think if this message was so prevalent in jesus's teachings
You would imagine maybe paul would have known it from the other apostles or
Had got caught wind of it and made mention of it in the letters
But then again these are paul's writing before temple fells
So why would even that because you said jesus says some predictions and I would imagine that if
If jesus said this this is a big claim
And it makes me wonder if paul wouldn't have mentioned it in passing
Because if hey, if this is a serious thing we can know whether or not this is true
Maybe he would have but then again
I could be wrong because these are only seven little short letters that don't really exhaust anything probably of paul's
Ultimate ideas or what he may have known we don't know and so I do think there was a guy um
There could not have been a guy, but I think we all would touch on this guy had to have been
Charismatic enough that he had a following that stuck around after he died
My name is san a donation bribing nil to get his unholy red background lighting in line with the rest of the righteous blue squad
Dabadi
Dabadi his red his red pill
I'm right. Yes. Andrew tight fan, you know, oh, you know, that's that's the
It always makes me have to get in defense mode when I hear that it's like no, dude. No
No, dude, please do not I don't don't make me. No. Thank you appreciate it
Thank you so much nitty
The the f4p kathar app is real
Okay, so that's a wrap
Ah and covenant eyes also take screenshots
Nitty knows I've had nitty on and we talk about this like nitty knows about this purity culture stuff
It's it was classic. Oh my gosh. It really is crazy. I had to sit down with my pastor and he was trying to like
I don't know. He thought he was like it's almost like the next step after covenant eyes doesn't work
Is we're just gonna go to what jesus said cut your hands off
Okay, not really. I'm just making the point like
How do I end it pluck your eye out throw it in the fire cut your hand off throw it in the fire
Then you won't have this problem anymore
That's what you make it makes me think that that's what
That's what some people might have been willing to do at some point
Thank you nitty nutty squirrel. Thanks for sharing. I I think
Thank you nutty squirrel
Cheryl for the three of you. What are some of the strongest beliefs you have today
outside of theism
That's a good question. Um
I do believe in a
I believe in a world
This is gonna sound cliche
But I honestly do believe in
A world that it looks more like inclusive more equality less nationalism
more
Progressive mentality
That's like where I'm at right now and that all is a result of leaving
Christianity whereas I was I wasn't far and the reason why I'm even saying this because some people like so was so am I
I've always been that way. Well, I haven't always been that way. Yeah. I was a conservative
Dude, I was a right-wing conservative. Yeah, if you go to my I have a whole ton of videos about you know, whatever
And uh, yeah, so that I just wanted to make that
Let people know like as a result of leaving this
um
harmful
Ideology
One domino after another caused me to go into a progressive mind now. I'm now I'm progressive, you know, right?
I'm the same I would I have to say I relate to you there. Um, I think the strongest belief I have
Is today and if I'm gonna call it a belief it is that we are all in the same boat
I knew that we were all like, oh, we all fell from Adam
But like you really don't see everyone on an even equal playing field
And I'm not talking about the minutiae of like getting into sports. You're gonna find the strongest
There are better sports players than other people. I'm talking about in general as humans in the same struggle of life
We're all mortal. We all come into existence. We all die
And so I I see people and I try to see everyone
Equal in in that way
I did not see that when I thought some people are reprobates that god is going to throw in hell
And there are some who are chosen
And those are special people that god loves. He hates some and he loves others. That's where it ended up going
And yes, I was a hardcore
Uh, right wing conservative voted for george w bush
Um, I was you know hardcore like military and don't give me why I still have patriarchy in some way built into me
Which I'm working on, you know, I am not this perfect individual. I am constantly growing and changing today
But you know, there's a sense in which I hear the pledge of allegiance and the hairs on my arms stand up
I grew up in a military household. My father was a green beret. He went to war. I mean like
that's just ingrained in me and you kind of have to understand that and
I hope others also understand that and respect and see the change in the gradual learning as we learn
We should be willing to change. That's something I think is the case. So
I try to see everybody equal. I even try to see the christians who sometimes make me go
But they can't see it, you know type stuff
Um, but I understand it and I really that's why I equated it to the drug addiction thing because I know what it's like to be trapped
I know what it's like to be trapped
But I also know that they're good people and they're humans just like me
I'm no better than them and they're no better than me and we are all humans in the same struggle that us first them thing
You see some of it
You see some of it with argumentations here on myth vision and nostic informant
And you're gonna see it on deep drinks and stuff when we're being critical on ideas, but as people
I can meet any of them and be totally cool. Yeah
I I I I my I'm gonna say my compassion for for humanity is growing
but I'll also say my passion for animals have grown a lot as well like I I
For a few years now. I've been a vegetarian
But just looking at my like little beagle and like touching him and being real realizing that he's like a living breathing
Species just like me and and and like going like wow this like this creature has like
Sentient experiences. Well, what can I imagine it seems to have sentient experiences?
I'm like damn like there's no dominion. I guess over these like other animals, right? Yeah
That's true. That is a thing. I've thought about like what are we gonna do about food?
You know, you start wondering at some point like
The slaughterhouse is is pretty crazy
um
Cedric we're gonna get to your video here soon david
So we'll just try to try to get through these here. I disagree with every everything you guys said because I can
Laugh out loud important question here. Who would win a savage rap battle between Gnostic and formant versus derrick
I have no idea because I don't rap. So I don't know
Look, we used to smoke it up lots of pot and we put on the hip hop, right?
And we put on the instrumental and we dropped the beat
I don't believe in the law like i'm steven sagal. I'll hit you in your face
Flipping off the police while i'm leaping the wall. I got your little son. You'll be receiving a call
You just won right there
That was actually m&m. Um, he did an underground thing a long time ago that I always said it was really
I knew it sounded familiar. I'm a legal like malican
Malican jamal and he goes on and on anyway. I took a bunch of Tylenol fell asleep in the mall
All right, vote for derrick for reading cringies now. No, i'm just kidding. Yeah, right, right?
Is the um, is the poll disappeared? Is there any way we can get it back? Like I don't know where it is
I have it. It's in the chat. There's so right now everybody if you don't think that i'm the cringiest
Please change your numbers because right now we're at 56 percent on me 30 percent on meal and in 13 on david
We've got to
Those are rookie numbers guys. You guys have rookie numbers. So
Like you've got to change this. This is not uh, this is not okay for you guys
You should be cringier. You guys claimed your cringiers this way. I've got I've got I've got another clip
Just you wait. Do you want me to play this real quick? Yeah, go ahead. We'll get to super chats in a minute
All right, these things uh, these tapes that you make for the radio station. You do all these things. So
Podcast livecasts
And get all this ready for plus our youtube work that you're doing on wednesday night
Yeah, I was the I was the guy at the church that did all the uh podcasting and live streams
It's in sundays and neil is with us and and neil
You recently learned the truth
About the lord and i'm wondering how was it the lord hooked you he said he'd be a fisher of men
And he's out there fishing for people. How do you get to you? Oh, my my story's pretty pretty interesting. Um
You know, it wasn't just a
easy one either
I I grew up you know, I had a good family and I
Got mixed up with the wrong crowd in school because that's what's going on right now and these in these public schools
There's a lot of you know, hollywood is teaching kids how to not
So, uh
Long story short, I started
You know going down the wrong path and I ended up
Getting lots of trouble for it. Family wasn't talked to me anymore ended up and actually
Going to jail for it. Um for a year and a half and one of the things I did in there was read the bible
Uh every day, how did you get a bible in jail? What happened?
How did I get was there a prison ministry that was circulating came in once a week
And I would show up. There's only a couple people that would go everybody would stay behind
Me and a couple of guys would go and
This I think he was a pastor, I believe
And he would we'd go in there and we'd read the bible and he gave us all our own bible and I'd go back and I'd keep reading
I literally read the whole bible. Wow while I was there
But that's actually a lie. I should say I read the whole bible. I at that point. I wasn't saved yet
I would read
All the the yeah, so okay this church mentality is that I wasn't really saved till I came to this church
You know how your church makes you think that yeah
Yeah, you were reading the bible in prison, but once you came here. This is when you really got saved now give us 10% of your money
Yeah, that's that's that was the minds that I had. Well, how else are they gonna get such amazing like, um artwork on the wall there like, uh, and
Look at it. Like I love that. Um, what is that like one of the
Dear tinker one. That's amazing. We only believe in four of them. Okay. We got him right here behind
Where's the other one? I'm gonna notice I used a redneck kind of voice
I know you're up in buffalo, but these seem like the the rednecks of buffalo. Uh, you're kind of church
So so, uh, I can say I can say that my mom is a redneck. So, um
I want to hear so even though it's not you kneel your pastor
Said some of the craziest stuff. So I think this might help you with your numbers
Yeah, before we go to david's next video we got I have to show one more video of your pastor five seconds long
Did you think in your head while you're a christian amen? Oh
Uh, uh, no actually this one actually blew me away. I was like, uh, this is too much. I'm being asked. This was too much
Uh, nail is just the clip that you showed the other day that you showed. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
This guys get ready
What's our friend's name is the john, uh, the philosopher we know, um
John knobby are you talking about who? No, what the hell is his name john?
Uh, he's uh, you know what? Hold on. I'll find agnostic. Hold on. No, he's one of he's on
Hold on. I'll find it. Just just yeah, just give me one second. I'll find it
It's uh, it's one of my videos that I did like a year ago
I think but I show right in the beginning of the clip
I'm gonna show it to you right now and a lot of people have seen this already. I played it at david's uh
I played it on david's channel a couple days ago
And he literally says the shit that's gonna blow people away who haven't seen it yet
This is crazy. So let me just pull it up. I think I'm getting close to it now. But yeah, here it is. Um, is this it?
It adds hold on a second guys
Sorry about that. I know you're still listening, but I'll be right back. Okay
He has to go and leak the snake. I bet I'm predicting. Yeah. Yeah, my profit will find out when he gets back
Right, right. Um, hold on a second. It is coming up
Where'd it go?
um
Oh, while you do that constellation pegasus. Yeah, read the next one out
1844 and 1914 people will make a way making those failures true
That's so true
Or at least
Making it somehow true and then like still say the final final of the finalist down the road. Uh, yeah
Yeah, thank you constellation. Okay. Here it is guys ready. Oh my
Oh my goodness
You gave me an ak-47 right now with enough ammo to take all of you out
And before I did it I started blaspheming the holy ghost's name and then took you out and then put the gun in my mouth
I still end up in heaven the whole night
Holy
Smokes he gave me an ak-47 with enough ammo to take all of you out
And then I blasphemed the holy ghost's name
And then put the trigger to my face and killed myself. I'd wake up in heaven
Because he's an elect day. Derek, you know, this is not easy. Derek, you know this
Do you like feel like
That I just I honestly like I that just feel like I'm like he must be taking the piss
Like he must be kind of re-killing someone, but you're like, no, no, he's
He's like he's being legit here. Yeah, even me in the crowd was like
Fuck he just
That's almost like an antinomianism on steroids because
Meaning a lawless not requiring any action behind and and I'm thinking in Protestant terms, but like
In fact, you know, I would have as someone who believed in the whole predestinary thing said no because if you were
If you were changed by God's spirit, you would never blaspheme the holy ghost, right?
So like in my way, I would have reconciled I said, no, you're not going to heaven
It would have shown that you weren't really one of his by that action
I would have tried, you know what I mean? So he went so far beyond what
I don't know how you could justify what he said even in theology even in the christian theology other than
Antinomianism like I can do whatever I want as long as I had said
Confessed with my mouth and believed in my heart that Jesus was risen from the dead
I can pretty much do whatever I want
And those are just super cringy type of christianities that make you go what?
Yeah, that's fundamentalism bro on a whole different level. Yeah
And that was your daddy. That was your spiritual daddy was my my teacher my pastor my spiritual. Yeah
I had to make it cringe. You know what I mean? I had to make it. That was your daddy
I
I was one of the few that had the key to the church
Oh my gosh, but david you've got to make a comeback
So while you while you're getting your comeback videos real quick here
Constellation or anything whatever you want to do even if it's a saying and you don't have a video
I don't care constellation pegasus. Why didn't you people look into the jehovah's witnesses?
Because to be honest
They were so out there to us
That we really did even as nutty as you hear we are we were like come on
How could someone believe in that, you know?
But then again, uh, you know, I had him knocking on my door my whole life
We thought it would they were weird like what are you doing knocking on our door?
in like cartoons of animals being pet with humans and stuff like
on their little pictures
I had a friend who went to a kingdom hall and
My other friend and the one I went to ministry college with we were talking about how like weird it was
And he went there just once or whatever and then I called my mate up who ministry college and I said
Hey, bro. I was like, um, look
You know, I've been talking to bow and uh
You know, he's mentioned a couple of things that he learned at the kingdom hall and it's um
It's pretty interesting stuff
And I was just wondering if um if you wanted to come along with me to uh to and like before I even got it out
He just burst out laughing because he just knew I was absolutely taking the piss like
But I played it pretty well
ah
But look, I'm not gonna say that it I can't maybe there was a moment in my mind wondering like
Could they be right?
You know, there was weird things I came across when I was studying like Jesus
Equating Jesus with Michael the Archangel and stuff like that
Like I wondered like did the Jehovah's Witnesses get this right almost like today. We now know
We look at the Hebrew Bible. We see good this god as an actual god with a body
um, and we're going
Damn, who else says that not Christians? I know Mormons do so were the Mormons right all along that god has a dad and has children
Well, uh, it seems like if you go back into the ancient Near East that is the case. So are the Mormons right but
Constellation, thank you
I would say that I think that the Jehovah's Witnesses
Play the game in that they
Actually follow a lot of what they take the Bible more seriously than most denominations
They just take certain passages way more serious than other passages
But they they definitely like take things more seriously. I think
I definitely I'm not I think you're on the money with that because I've talked to many x ones and they are really
Similar to us in the extreme sense of being fundamentalist humanist reformation. Thank you for that big super chat
Appreciate that seriously always showing up for Gnostic Informant
And now you know David deep drinks podcast
You could subscribe over there and harass him because he's gonna have some banger videos coming
Are you sure Christians are not being knowingly this deceitful?
Did you guys feel like you were lying to people at the time?
I'll let you guys answer first. Yeah. No, that's such a good question because great question
there's a lot of times where I would
I would sort of like
Enhance my story to make it sound more of a miracle
Like oh, yeah, I was so bad. I was doing so much heroin and then the day I got saved
I stopped overnight but like really it wasn't like that really was like rough
There was a lot of a lot of relapsing. There's a lot of problems after I got saved
I didn't get wasn't perfect when I got saved a lot of issues
Well, still I still flawed human being nothing nothing was nothing really changed with me
I just decided that like so. Yeah, I was lying to people for sure
For sure. I was lying to people. I'm Derek. I bet you I bet you know exactly what I'm saying right now
it's
I want to word this in a way that I really want people to feel what I'm saying. So you really get it
I'm going full screen for this one. I'm going full screen. Okay
When I would tell a story in my testimony sometimes not all the time
I think I was pretty honest in that testimony at least about the ugly things if you watched it earlier
but
You exaggerate right and sometimes when we exaggerate, you know, you're not telling the truth about that for that moment
But it's like no like whatever. It's the point that matters not literally what I'm saying
I'm wanting to get you to believe what I'm telling you
So there's moments of clarity where you know
You just lied a little to fudge the data to make your point even more even if you're exaggerating or not being honest
but they're
somehow in our minds
We convince ourselves
That we're not lying
It's like
You're really not lying because you're doing it all in god's name and it can't be
So that's I had to go full screen to really like just make everyone feel what I'm saying here. Yeah, I
Sorry go
Oh, I was just gonna I was just gonna parrot when you were saying because I I
I think I'd have to reword this as well. Yeah full screen. Um, I don't think that
I'm taking this down so you can see cool. Yeah, I think they're being I think they're being deceitful
But I don't think they realize they're being deceitful. I think that the majority of them
Um, believe so much in what they're doing that it's uh, it's not like it's not similar to the ends justify the means
but it's like
It's like giving the best faith interpretation of some parts and giving a horrible interpretation of other parts
But you're so primed to do this
Um through like how you know the preachers talk about reading specific parts of the bible and you know and
And get being led and stuff that yeah, I don't think a lot of them
I think it's rare that people like people like kenthoven. I think are deliberately deceiving people
But I think that for the majority of pastors and preachers, they just really believe what they believe
And they don't realize they're being deceptive. They don't have the
The cognitive ability this is gonna sound really arrogant
But I don't think they have the cognitive ability to even see where they're being deceptive
I think that some people get so lost in the source that they
actually
They actually think they're being honest when the when it's the opposite like you ever ask christian about slavery
And or something like that and it's just like the tap dance you get you don't get an answer like did god condone slavery?
Oh, you get you get an answer sometimes it's like it's not slavery or it's like yeah, it's a lack of awareness really
It's not like it's not the it's not that they're caught not cognitively able
There's it's just like an awareness level that
I'm not I'm talking about myself in the past. I lacked awareness
I thought that I was I thought that I was coming off smart intelligent
And I was blowing everybody's mind with my christian wisdom like I was not
I was preaching to the choir only people who wanted to hear it were listening to the shit. I was saying that's it. Yeah, yeah
Oh, well, I mean look, I didn't think that what I believed was a lie. I didn't think that what I believed was wrong
um
You start you you have a presupposition that it's true
And you're just trying to work out the details like you already start with your conclusion
And then you're working from there, but I think you're right in the sense not that they're not intelligent
It's almost like they don't know the material
Someone you know that is honest an honest christian scholar like delcy allison jr. You listen to him
Even if you disagree and I disagree
I think that he takes much he thinks there's more memory in the gospels
Then I do I think it's more fanciful literary devices
And they're they're concocting legend and myth and narrative and all that and I don't I don't think necessarily
I can't prove this and he can't prove it either
um
That there's a there's memory behind this these narratives like there's real memory to a real historical something
Um to some of them some of me says it's whole on legend
He doesn't even think there's memory attached to some of it. He thinks there's legend
That's an honest thinker who's really trying to process the new testament and their christian
If you don't know all the things he's read
And you start with god's word is true hallelujah and let me tell you moses was on the mountain of god and you're like
Have you even read anything for them?
Have you ever even heard of john j colin's for example or any no they haven't so they're working within that limitation of their knowledge
Which they think is true
And then they've built these walls around them protecting them. I know because of my experience
Liberal scholars stay away from them if they think like this don't listen to them. They don't have truth
They aren't true you convince yourself
They're wrong already and you don't need to believe it and it's literally kind of a mental
control game of cult
It's not necessarily physical even some cases it may be in churches where they don't want you
They literally try to force you not to see that information or to go that way, but it's a mental cult thing
So they're really trying to steer your brain to stay away from all of that other stuff
And making sure you know it isn't true to begin with
That's my my personal opinion and
I mean you see it even there's some christians trying to do better and talk to the other side, but like
They're already the hey before you go talk to so and so just know that this is true first
You have to know this is true before you talk to the other person
Because if you you weak in the faith or you have doubt
You could slip and fall and do you really want to go where you know, you're gonna go pascals wager that joker come on, you know
Anyway
Constellation against this pastors do lie
anyone here here
A pastor admit mark 16 9 through 20 are forgeries. Hmm. Well, they don't they don't think they're forgeries
Right. Oh, this is what I mean. They they will find a way to go. Well, they're not forgeries
It's actually
Like the god was using, you know, the original like they'll find a way to like tie it all together
Like there's no way you can lose, right? So they're so they they they like just it's like a hum
This is gonna sound horrible, but it's like a wife that keeps going back to the husband that's getting who's beating her
It's like well, he only punches me because he loves me like he should there's ways to rationalize it
And is she lying to everyone? She might be lying to herself
But she's she's lying to everyone else when she says that her husband really loves it
Like I don't think so. I think she's she's probably in denial. I think that she's probably like really struggling with something emotionally
Hard to deal with and um, yeah, it takes a while for people to get to that breaking point
Yeah, I don't
It's again, is it lying if they really
Think and believe that there this was an original ending or if they've convinced themselves even if they're not right
Is it lying?
um
It can be deceptive if they know this information and a lot of the seminary christians that go they know this they learn this
But when they go to church, they're preaching and you find this a lot with ex christians who went through seminary
They say we knew this stuff. They taught us this stuff, but they told us in seminary
Look, this is the favorable one for the you know, when you preach your sermon
Don't worry. They're this ending was originally there like they find ways to convince you, but they tell you
We're not a hundred percent certain
In some cases that this was the original ending things like that. So
Even the educated supposed scholar or the educated supposed christian who's going to seminary through seminary to become a pastor
There's a point in what you I don't know
I don't know if they think they're lying or if they're not being as honest or what
I asked a pastor. I was like, oh, well, you know, there's little contradictions
And I just mentioned in the group in a small group
Well, there's little contradictions and the pastor's wife and the pastor popped into well, they're not there's no contradictions in the bible
It's just areas that we don't have an explanation for why they look like contradictions yet
So it was it was the concept of like there can be no contradictions because it's the perfect and errant word of god
So when you see a contradiction that's there, it's not a contradiction
It's just something we don't have an answer for why it isn't a contradiction yet, right? Like
It's where you start from. There's so many different ways to how they deal with this. This is a good question
My name is san again. Thank you for that super chat serious question. Do y'all ever lie awake at night and go
What if i'm wrong?
I'm a terrified agnostic
But I know my ocd is messing with my ability to reason properly any advice
It depends on what i'm wrong about because the idea if i'm wrong about if there's a god or not
I always think about that
but i'm way way way beyond the
thoughts of
Is it the god of the bible that wants me to do x y and z and wants me to believe in x y and z
I'm so past that now from all the all this all the digging i've done and the scholars i've talked to the experts in the field
And you know learning science and evolution and all this stuff that i'm so far gone from ever thinking that the
Bible god could be true
But the an idea of some creator that started this all I think about that every day. Yeah
I've never ruled that out yet, but yeah, so
Wow, so it sounds like you got along in a way other than the fear factor
You have something in common with with the super chatter david, uh, I'd like to have you give a little response if you don't mind
yeah, so I um I
I have ocd. I pure ocd and part of my deconstructing construction experience was
I was doing woodwork in a room and I um to make a little jewelry box for my
girlfriend now wife that time
Wife but girlfriend at the time amy and I was making for and I was like this life is just so good
We're I'm just getting so much more in touch with god. I put on some worship music and I started praying and
I was like god
I'm going to go to that like that deeper place with you again
I'm willing to open up my heart to you because like I was a bit shielded from being hurt and
I was like I'm gonna open up my heart and as soon as I open my heart
I heard this this booming not audible but this this voice say to me
Break up with amy and I was like
Whoa when it took me right out of it. I had a panic attack
I ran out of I ran out of the shed that I was working in I vomited all through the garden
I called up a pastor and I was like what's going on. I just felt like I heard god telling me to break up with amy
I went and saw counselors psychologists. Um, there was two church counselors
I went and saw I went into my pastor went through the worship leader had lunch and everyone was saying to me
That doesn't sound like god like god wants to bring people together. Amy's good for you. You're going to church. Yeah
And it was it was wild until I went my parents told me go to a psychologist and I went to a psychologist and the first
Session was I was like, this is stupid, right?
But I went to a secular psychologist the second session I went there and I was like whatever and he said to me
I want you to repeat out loud
What if god wants me to break up with amy and I said I I can't I can't do that
I said I can't do that because you know
What if the life and death are in the power of the tongue and you know, what if I like take
What if I just like run out of the office and call Amy and break up the I can't do that to her
I break her heart like I can't and I was like it's panicked and he said no
I want you I want you to say it and he forced me to and I was like, okay
So I said out loud what if god wants me to break up with amy and then anxiety started building and he said say it again
I said, what if god wants me to break up amy? He's like I started building up and he said it said again
Say it again. Say it again, and I kept saying it and I'm like panicking now
I'm looking around the room for for for a bin to vomit in because I'm like
Having a panic attack and I'm like I'm having a panic attack and I'm gonna vomit and he's like say it again
I'm like what if god wants to break up amy, and I was like say it again. I'm like, what if god was
And then yeah, and then all of a sudden I was like he's like say it again
I was like what if god wants me to break
What the and I was like, why am I thinking this?
And it's honestly like a breaking of a spell it like it
Months of not being able to sleep vomiting and how it sounded after you said it to yourself
Yeah, and it was it was wild that that psychological trick broke that thing over me
I realized god didn't want me to break up with amy. I realized how silly this was and
My psychologist knew that I was um
I was hiding from that perspective that goes once you break up amy
And once I actually confronted that it broke that that chain that ocd over me
And then it would come back every now and again that yeah, it was it was horrible
But so first of all I feel for you having ocd
But just know it's just an ocd tick right people you do lay at night
Lay up at night like thinking about these things of course everyone does but
But try and face it. I mean go to a psychologist and get stuff
I'm not going to give you a psychologist
But but face face face it don't don't hide from it face it because
It's you you'll see it just drop off if you if you face it if you completely face it. Yeah
But I would do it obviously with a profession professional though because it'll help you get through it
I would say and this is my way of answering it and you guys did outstanding answers there
The I have laid in awake at night multiple times. I haven't any time recently
It's been a long time since I thought this way
But tell me if you relate to this nil and I know david you've learned a lot
I'm sure but nil you dive into the deep mythologies and other comparative religions type stuff like I get into
Or different thoughts throughout there
For me hell
Like I really don't worry. So what if I'm wrong, right? Well, if there's no hell, what do you do?
If universalism is true at the end of the day, we all end up where we're going, right?
But if hell is real, right, that's the scary. What if I'm wrong pascal's wager thing for me
Finding out that the jews did not have a hell
Their own bible does not even teach hell
Hell's a mad main thing. Well, I'm going to make the point that the jews believed in sheol and they did not have a hell
There was a form of a lake of fire my recent caracuni video talks about the ancient egyptian book of the dead has a lake of fire
But it wasn't necessarily where you get thrown in and tormented and tortured
Uhura mazda going to the persians
They had a lake of fire where torments would happen and burn away the evil or the wickedness of the person
And if you were righteous, it was like taking a bath and warm with warm milk
So you weren't like going to be suffering
Greeks had some form of hades where there was almost like a area that was less pleasant
Where maybe you could say torturing developed and stuff the point is
Once you realize that these other various mythologies and such have had it before your christianity
Right, then you go like it's where it came from. This is johnny come lately and i'm supposed to think this is the one
Yeah, and i had a christian right the other day
You could tell it's a christian on this whole caracuni egyptology thing and they go
So you think they called it a non sequitur you think because you find this pattern and theme
Well before christianity and other traditions that this somehow means christianity isn't true
That's a non sequitur and i said i answered with the question
So you think osiris and dianesis actually were resuscitated and restored to life by resurrection
And that eternal life is found in osiris. Do you believe that?
Well, we'll know and what reasons wouldn't you osiris was the god of the dead
Judge of the dead who ruled the underworld the duat
Who literally was the one you resurrected through?
For over 3 000 years jesus has only been around for two
So you're gonna tell me that that god's not real but yours is when you start to actually
Digest this information and you see it as man made that this is the ideas of people humans
The fear of it really being true and in in your life it it starts to go away
It's like realizing the magic trick and knowing how the trick happens
You no longer are mystified and worried about what if what if you know how the trick is is happening
You understand why people have come up with these these things and how it has evolved over time
It loses its strength in your in your mind. So that's my answer to it. I would say yeah
And I may not be the same for everybody, but for me that was mine
Zyctomorph, this is surprisingly cathartic for me. I'm also a covenant eyes unfun men's club veteran
We're veterans now, you know, yeah
There's something that I I do don't want to say about that one of the reasons I want to do a panel on purity culture
Is because men and women had a very different experience between each other men
I've talked to them about this a lot on deep drinks, but men were sit where we're taught
We were taught your predators your essential predators. You can't help yourself. You need to like hold back these urges
You know and etc. etc women wish we're told
Men are predators and you need to cover up because they can't help themselves, right?
Like you need you need to and it's kind of offensive in one way because it's like
Why can't women be dirty disgusting deviates who want to like bang all the time?
Why why and why can't you know like it was it was I was a little my my feminine side came out
And I was like why can't women also like to watch porn and masturbate and stuff, but they were taught only about the
from what I know only about
discouraging men from essentially being predators to them rather than
We can also
Have sexual fantasies, right?
It's like 1950s
Wife with stuff, you know, you see it and like literally with the hijab in in islam in many cases
They they preach that to their congregations
And the more radical the more extreme like literally cover your entire dude. I don't want to see but your pupils. Okay
um
Whoa, yeah, so there's there's obviously a lot built into this patriarchy
Within abrahamic face and I suspect you find it elsewhere, but it and that's why that book by caracuni a plug
um
The good kings she goes back to the ancient pharaohs and shows you the patriarchy
We're making that happen. We're gonna make that happen
um
William aron says I can maintain friendly relations with you three and other skeptics while staying in connection with the church
I was born into I was able to modify my religious beliefs and the church changed as well
Wow
Well a church that's changing
I think is a good thing
Hmm
If you're telling me put give me an aka 47 and I'll send all of you and then I'll turn on myself
Blasting the holy ghost and pull the trigger and I'm gonna wake up right in
I mean how nutty can you get?
Uh, it's good to I think I'm I always uh commend people on balance like having like I try to remain friends of all my christians
Oh, the del sielzens out there. Those are good people. I love del del loves me
I'm telling you like I am not anti
Christian I'm not anti belief
I tell you what I believe and I'm vocal about it just like christians might be vocal about theirs, but
There's fundamentalism there are some ridiculous stuff
I hope we can all agree on and if if you're a christian and you watch what we're saying and you hear what we're saying about these
Other christian type groups that have these bad things work with not against, you know
Just be vocal against that as well. I mean we have people like spartan theology comes in our chat dude spartan
He's a universalist. I think spartan. Uh, don't beat me up if you're not, but I think you are
and like
totally like
Against some of the more radical stuff that we're talking about where we came from if that makes sense, right?
Thank you
How is it not a lie when the fact supports something different?
So I think what way i'm interpreting lie. Tell me if i'm wrong guys. It's not intentional intentional deceit
Yeah, so if I don't know that the earth isn't six
Let's just throw numbers out here, right? Uh, the universe is 14.6 billion and it's actually probably older
They're finding out with the james web telescope now like hold on that shouldn't be there
Uh, that makes the time of our you know, there's stuff they're figuring out about a universe
Which by the way those who talk about big bang and all that kind of stuff
You know, I wouldn't put too much uh concrete in that bag
You know things are changing because science is constantly learning
But if you know
That the answer isn't that
And then you go to say
That I call lie. That's a lie, right
So you can be wrong and not lie
You can be flat out wrong. It can be horrible and you're not necessarily lying
And I think that the way this religion when you're rearing up kids and you're teaching them these things and they're believing them
They already are invested and believe it's true
No matter what so
They're believing a lot of things. I would say are not facts
That are wrong and maybe some of their teachers know that they're not true
But I tend to not start with people are liars
I usually start with ignorance or
Some type of prejudice bias something cognitive dissonance explains it other than they're just liars period
And and I try not to that's where I would go
Yeah, I agree
Good. Well, sir, feel free to if you guys think that I'm fully, you know, what then just say Derek
I think you're fully. No, I think it's where you start from. I think it's your presupposition
So if you start from the the bible is an errant word of god
Then whenever whatever problem you have you can explain it away like I was I was saying Neil
I went on Neil's stream yesterday a great stream. By the way, you should check it out
It was a hoot a hoot
But we talked about like, you know, the idea of like if I said to Neil like I'm gonna walk to
You know, I'm gonna walk to New York and then this is Bart Ehrman's example and then like, you know, everyone's like, that's impossible
But but then they find out well actually like if if everyone believed David can't lie
I was actually well actually when he was on the plane
He knew that you can get blood clot. So he's walking up and down the aisle a whole time like making so he
Technically on the plane he was walking. So he did walk all the way to New York
Like you find ways to justify it if
Just like anything like did Muhammad split them?
Well god can do anything. So of course he split them in two like nor the nation saw it because it was cloudy where they were
Like you can you can if you start anything position. Yeah, so it's about where you start from
And are they lying or are they really being fed misinformation?
Or are they or they deep down being deceptive to themselves because of their presupposition and they don't even notice it
Is it an awareness that what they're doing is a lie? Yeah, that's the question. Yeah, I don't think so
I think they start with their answer and if that is true
No matter what
Your it's how can I lie? I have to get to what I know is true because in my mind that's already true
And that's what happened to me once I found out that the bible itself is not god breathed in there and infallible
And that bubble popped
Oh my gosh, like everything just started to go. That's the first one that has to go. That's it man
That's a captain dad pool in the house. Go subscribe to captain dad. Why you're at it?
Seriously, I appreciate him now. I am become cringe the destroyer of worlds
So do you guys have something cringier to add to the vote? I do I already went twice
So I'm done. You guys can finish off now. Is this you a david right? Yeah, and let me let me skip to the part that's relevant
Look at my fashion. Holy crap, bro. You yeah, I had the ball chain
I'm having a good time. He made it through and all this
Okay, so
This is my first preach. I really screwed up this was my first preach
In the church when I was
Announced to be taking over as youth pastor and I did a really bad job with my youth pastor
So I did a really bad job
But this is the best cringiest part of the whole clip and I hope if I don't win with this
It's only because Derek has some field advantage. Let's see everyone loves neil. Okay, let's go
It goes on and um
It says at verse 11
What happened is they ate the tree everyone knows the story ate the tree from the tree of deceit
He's the tree of good and evil. They figured out what
Were and then they realized they were naked and stuff
Anyway, and it's verse 11 picks up and he says and he said who told you and it's inverse. Sorry. Not verse 10
Is that how good the man his wife heard the sound of the law of god as he was walking in the garden
In the cool of the day and they hid from the lord
Go out among the trees of the garden for the lord god called to the man. Where are you?
He answered I heard you in the garden. I was afraid because I was naked. So I hid and god said
Who told you you were naked?
Now you probably heard me say this before but for those who haven't it's like
Who told you were naked?
Who told you negative you just look at that you can just brush right past that verse and think it's nothing
But you can look at that verse
And you see what happens is what happens when you're down and when you're feeling depressed and when you're feeling lower than the
The floor and you've got a storm going through your life a personal storm
We think everything's you can everything's just going absolutely insane around your life
And and what happens is the devil will come along and you'll lie to you and the devil will come along and you'll say you're pathetic
The devil will come along and say that you can't do this. You can't do that
You'll never you'll never amount to anything
You're always going to be that person from a dysfunctional family. You're always going to be that person
Who who slept around you're always going to be that person who took drugs
You never tell us what you really did and you come in and you can weed in and you get these thoughts that start to play in our mind
You wonder why so many people so many people walk away from god
Have such an encounter god and they walk away from god because the devil brings his fog around their lives
And clubs what god's really saying any man about sitting there saying who told you you were pathetic
Who told you you were naked who told you you were like that?
I don't know anyway, but who brought you down who brought you down
You've changed you see the great thing about my god and our god in this room
Is that he's always shifting
I'll get an amen. I'll help you
Oh my god, you were on fire for the lord. Yeah, david. I didn't know you had it in you, man
No, that was like a mix between both the bars. It was like
Yeah, I think I vote for you now. I'm voting. Yeah, you got so the vote is in the chat, right?
Joshua Owens says thank you for your work. Thank you, Joshua. See the christians in the chat are feeling you right now
Dude, you're getting it done. Yeah, so make your votes happen now. Okay, like literally I want to
Uh, I need to give a plug of you guys real quick here and tell some people what we've got going on
Midi is saying shifting the place the the church the church services that was called shift
And we used to have this like intro called shift tv
All right, a nice shift tv. Yeah, anyway
I'm cooling up. So we're getting toward the end of this podcast and
I'm going to pull up some of the youtube channels here for everybody to go and subscribe please do
And then we're gonna go I'm giving people time to
Boost subscribers as well from just coming on the stream. You guys have boosted it
Absolutely, that's why pin that at the top. So take the time to subscribe
Take the time to vote because we're about to find out what's going on here
Okay, sharing the screen now
Gotta get everybody on the same page here. So everybody knows what the dillio is
Here is deep drinks podcast
Go subscribe some stuff is coming up. Let me tease you why I think you need to go subscribe right now if you haven't
You've got dr. Jennifer bird
Dr. Kip Davis dr. Kil in the hizzy want to know how many bodies he has you have to watch this episode to find out
um
Right here my buddy, hanny critical faculty
He does a lot on science and of course, Islam
Here is the game changer. You're gonna have to oh, wow. Hold on
I guess I need the is that audio gonna ding me. I don't think it'll insist. It's just it's just yeah
Go to the channel to listen to that beautiful music
Yeah, I think I'm gonna just do this for a second here. Why not? All right, and I need to
Shout out the people who put this together dr. Josh. You really did everything to put this together
All right there. I gave it five seconds. I don't want something to happen in case
um
Oh, it's it's all royalty free. It's fine. Oh, is it that's what I was wondering. Yeah, okay. That's what I wanted
So we're we're pretty cringe people here. Okay, and we're we're proud of it. We're proud of it
Um, all he dealt with that and I'm proud of it. I'm proud of it. Okay. I'm proud of that
of that
Go subscribe to davids. Here's his live streams. You got more than that coming up. Yeah, dude
I got I got uh
Kyle dr. Kyle smith called to the dead. He's recently blogged on bad omens
Um
Bad omens blog and he's you know released his book, you know a cult of the dead a brief history of christianity
That's gonna be fantastic. And I I can't believe I got um, dr. David Morgan professor. David Morgan that he talks about the material
um
Religion as material expressions. So that is a fantastic book
I founded a couple years ago in a Byron book bay bookstore
The only reason I picked it up is because it was a tiny little book and it was worth 75 dollars
And I was like why on earth is this book worth 75 dollars? I wrote it back and I was like
Whoa, this is right at my alley and it was an amazing book. Um, yeah
Go subscribe and don't miss those live streams
David's working his butt off to try and do something and he's got a newborn
So by checking out his channel, you're helping that that baby out. Okay, and we don't drown babies
Okay, thank you so much everyone. We don't do that
Seriously subscribed to gnostic if you haven't already, um, I don't know where you've been
Neil, what do you got coming up on your channel?
Do you want to attain that true gnosis where you can exit the realm of reincarnation forever and obtain apotheosis and become a god yourself?
Join my channel
Subscribe
It's all I'm gonna say. I'm gonna leave you with that if you want it. Do you want to test it out come see for yourself
Dude, you're growing in. I'm proud of you, bro. I remember when you had like you had 500 subscribers
And you you hit me up said I want to interview you
And I knew I was like, yo
You got it. You got what it takes to do this. What's up? You should do this more
I mean and you are into certain things that I was but also things. I wasn't that
Was perfect. Yeah, man. You really helped me out like I
I I owe bro
I owe a lot of my success to you
Helping me out showing me the little tricks and a little trick to the trade
Showing me how to do certain things
I wouldn't be here. I would not be here if it wasn't for you, dude for real
Well, Neil look, dude, you had the spark already. Okay
All I had to do is just say do you see it right there? Look inside you got it and you and you worked you did it
You know what I mean? So really the you deserve all the credit for the work you've done
All I've done is occasionally let my audience know that you exist
And say hey check out my boy. No check out what he's doing and you know, that's it, man
So I appreciate obviously the compliments and but you worked your butt off to get where you're at
So I I don't I don't want anyone ever saying oh, it's because of Derek like you did it
So give yourself a pat on the back, bro
I I will I will say this that when I was on Marco Granada's stream
He was he asked me about the future of atheism, right? And I don't think you guys are necessarily atheist channels
But I said, um with the you know, bible scholarship online like what we have now with myth vision
Is just
Absolutely incredible. It's it's it's like game changing this Derek. This is just the start. Yeah, but not just you Neil
I subscribe to you you're trying a long time ago, but I didn't watch your content for a while
I don't know why because it's very
It's it's very similar to Derek's and that it's like the production quality the guests you're having on it's amazing
What you guys are doing with with bible scholarship and and all and all that is like
This is just the start it's game changing. This will change the world. This is Derek started a new genre
Derek started a whole non-run YouTube. It's definitely this scholarship thing
This is like getting scholars and like showing people what people what these scholars are are doing because like people don't know that scholars
are doing breakthrough
They're changing the game every couple months. There's new
New things being written that are you're not kidding
This is my whole goal was to put a flashlight on the ivory towers academics
It was already there well before I came on the scene
And I had this thing when I first started myth vision where I heard stuff that I was like
There's not enough of this and it was really more the esoteric stuff at first manly p-haul that kind of things
There's not enough of this out there
And more of the allegorical approach the interpretation that wasn't what we grew up with our whole lives
And that's what I started myth vision
As along and I was theistic when I started myth fiction at least some form a theist pantheist
When I first started it and uh dropped a video horrible quality audio sucked
I mean, I'm in a hotel room working a construction job
I was a supervisor at a construction job doing renewable energy running through
Yeah, so you know what it's like and
The goal was to get the scholars to be
Popular and get this information out there to a general audience because I have a hypothesis in my mind for the longest it was like
Let let I've heard this said and this could be wrong
It was like we want the masses to have this religion and to believe in practice this religion to keep them under control
So that they have this and they know how to be moral. They know how to act things like this
This is what I've been told
But only the elites get this knowledge get to know the truth because truth had power and power
You know can cause problems if you're bad and you have this power and you're a bad person
You could do a lot of bad with this kind of knowledge. This was the kind of
Freemason esoteric kind of uh secret society stuff if you have this and you're a bad person
That's why you have to go through a process to get this truth because they didn't want you to have it right out the gate
And be a bad person too bad with it
I was like hold on. No, no, no, no natural like I think humans are humans if we all knew this stuff. I wonder how
Religion would evolve and we wouldn't be doing bad things because of the religion or the the threats or anything like that
but just
Educating and becoming wise people ethical people for the sake of being good people because we understand
Not because we're inherently wicked and fell or some kind of myth that we've told ourselves
Um rather because we want to be better. We want to love and show that intrinsically not because of threats
That's my thoughts but well said and you guys are doing your own thing
I hope people will go and support what you're doing. Joach trap says we're getting the votes here soon
Thanks. I needed a good cringe today
I hope we also got a hell satan in the chat hell satan hell satan
um
William aren't so here is one of the reasons I can stay at peace in the new apostolic church
Our doctrine included a realm of the departed rather than heaven and hell a concept of sheol in a layman led church
interesting
You know why i'm gonna try and go to bat for this for a second here. I'm not saying this is literally ontologically what happens but
I've thought about my own parents passing away and I love them and one day I want to be able to talk to them
Even though I know they're not literally talking to me
I want to have that still be like
You know imagine what they think of me and have I made you proud those kind of things or I miss mom
I miss you mom that kind of stuff ancestor worship, right? You find that in eastern philosophies. You even find that in rome
um
Kind of that notion even though I don't think they're literally hearing that there's some personal therapeutic
Thing I think that comes from being able to think that way about your family that you miss and love you see what I'm saying
I'm not going to go around saying don't worry
I'm going to come see you soon because I believe in jesus and others who aren't are going to go to hell
And you're going to watch from your post in heaven smiling while god's wrath is poured out for all eternity on these people
Get the hell out of here with that nonsense, you know, right, right
William I hope that that made sense as well where I'm
Bridging that human natural inclination that we all wish we were with our loved ones and uh hate to see them go
Oh my goodness god just entered the chat
No way, okay, maybe he's a demigod legend
I've had some classics on my channel with him on
Some oh my bangers. Yeah, dude. Those the philological approach and stuff. Oh my gosh jubilees
You did a jubilees one. We did the one we did it like the etymology thing
Like the different names of gods of l and yaoi and where they actually they come from the pagan canyonite ugaritic tradition
Like they're not where they didn't it's not where you think it's not like l was the first god and everything
No, no l and yaoi and they're all coming from this pantheon the ugaritics the canyonites
For those who don't know this is dat dr. Matthew monger and he's like best buds with dr. Kill dr. Kip davis
This is dr. Mott. Okay death in a different way. Um, dr. Kill dr. Mott so
One thing matt if you're still listening, uh, maybe you've tuned us out by now
You guys were worth only my treadmill time, but maybe you're still around
I am saying this publicly. I hope that we can make you more of a public figure with your knowledge
Meaning we get you a youtube we get you situated as an academic out there in the public space
Potentially patreon. Maybe you don't need that. I don't know. I'm just going out there because
People are latching onto the academics and if they they feel there's a privilege to be able to write and communicate and comment and ask questions
Like anyone's mom pop sister brother doesn't matter from home are learning things you only find in ivory towers
and I call ivory towers
the elite educational
Ivy league school you don't find this
A church you're not going to get this at your church. I just don't know
I mean, I'd be shocked to find your church is legitimately actually educating their audiences on this level
It'd be it'd be shiny fine, but i'm saying that matt we'd love to help you in that process
I've only just um learned about matt through the panel actually. Um, dr. Josh put
Put put the feelers out for matt and I was like, yeah get him on and I have been blown away matt is one of the night
First of all, he's one of the nicest people I've ever met
And him and kip david say like they gave me some really good advice up for the panel
And they cut the he's going to be compiling a list of like his resources for the slavery panel. So
Um, it's it's going to be a wild ride and and everyone I matt I think you really if you are listening
You really need to get some sort of a channel because you could I think uh, you you've got a very
kind and interesting perspective
And your scholarship could really shine through with your personality. I think so I think
Very excited to see where you go with all this
I do too. He's still here. So we're not boring him to death and there's 238 people. Are y'all ready to see the vote?
Yeah, let's see. Who who's the who wins the cringe crown?
Who who wins the cringe crown? We're about to find out. Thank you for that super chat really everybody for this
Every like every comment even if you disagree with what we're doing every share
Every encouraging word every private message
Everything matters and it helps it really does even if we aren't responding due to time
I read it and I see it and I'm like encouraged even the non positive ones
Even the non positive ones they motivate me. It's like, okay
Okay, maybe I maybe there's constructive criticism somewhere in there. Sometimes I realize it's just ruffling feathers
All right, we're gonna get this vote. We're gonna end the poll. Are you ready for this? Are you sure you're ready for this?
Guys, oh, yeah, well
Yeah, I yeah, let's do this. Okay. There's 281 votes. Yeah, that's a lot. Let's do it. Holy shit. I know here we go
Should pop up here
I don't see it
That is red that is that's bullshit. That's
It's that's full shit
That's actual bullshit. There's no
Why are you kidding? Do you guys see my preachers?
I'm I agree. I think that you have some stuff that where where is it? I don't see it
It's in the chat. It's in the chat. So go to youtube because it's not showing up on a stream yard
So Derek wins with 56
Yeah, I I I see it. I think I think you guys are right. I think I really did not want people dude
You heard me David. I really said it would not hurt my feelings at all
In fact, I'd have been happy to see someone else. I mean this is like recount recount. I'm the true
Let me let me give you a funny collection. Oh, yeah, right. It is obviously
um
I there's a funny story to this when I first got clean off a heroin
Me and my wife we used to argue every day in active addiction like when I was actively using
I would start a fight with her the serious note, but this ends up being a funny story
Where I'm about 18 days off a heroin
And we haven't had one argument
18 days the most amazing relationship in the world for 18 days. It was heaven
And I had a dream that night
That I used in my dream and it was the most terrifying I woke up crying literally had tears in my eyes like I just
You can't change that your dream in your dream, but I was so thankful when I woke up that I wasn't
I have those from time to time even today seven years later
But I woke up and I was telling my wife how afraid I was to die that I knew that I'm gonna die if I use
If I get back on heroin, I don't know if I'm gonna make it out. I told her and I was scared
And then she just in conversation, but I took it wrong
went yeah, I'm afraid of dying too and I was like
excuse me like
No, you're not
I am so messed up
That I am going to die from heroin addiction. So we argued for the first time in 18 day 18 days
We had this horrible argument. It's just
All right, I don't want to talk to you, you know, but we're driving together to get food and I'm not wanting to speak to her
You know the music's soft and it kind of makes you want to soften her, but I'm not I'm not doing it
So we get home. I go outside in the backyard a little bonfire at my yard
I'm just sitting there so pissed. I can't believe that she thinks that she's afraid to die
When I'm literally the one getting off heroin, right? Like that's my yeah, how excited and
Emotional I was she walks out with a cup of coffee
She walks out all the way to me with a smile and I'm like you made that for me, honey
She's like, yeah, and I thought about it and she said you're way more fucked up than I am
And I went I walked right into it. She's the best
I love
I love your wife. She's amazing. Like I'm horrible and better. She's she's so great
And I just realized I was like, oh my god. I'm an idiot. She's so right
She's so right. Oh
What I do I do want to mention
Uh for all the subscribers that have come over from mid vision and joined deep drinks as well
I am seeing your um, they they come on over with the wizards, man
And I'm replying with the wizards. I forgot to mention this one last on
If you come over and you comment the wizard or the mage or whatever
I'm not going to reference it. If anyone goes, hey, what's with the majors? I'm like, no one's going to know
This is our little myth vision secret and and neils got uh, you got the magic one right?
People have been coming over with the magic wand, right? Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, nice. Um, I just want to say I want to can you read out kip davis's uh comment
I'm sorry david. I voted before I saw yours, but you look way way more pathetically sincere than terry
Where is this?
Oh david's preaching made me want to give him money derrick's preaching made me want to punch him
Derrick was out david was out fire david was out fire. Yeah, look
I
We can't help that. That's just how we were. Okay. Like we can't help it
Can I change it? Is it my face? I'm reminded of the step brother movie where he's like, is it my face?
Is can I change it? No, I just want to punch you in the face
Yeah, um any final words from you guys? Um things you have coming up and then I'll tell you what I have coming up and then we'll
in this uh stream
um, I have a video coming out tomorrow
about
Ancient greece and magic and div dividend or divination. I'm sorry in ancient greece. That's coming out tomorrow
I'm also hosting a girl from ukraine. Who's in the middle of
Yeah, or so right now you at david actually introduced me to her through facebook
So I have her on and a few other things coming up as well. Um, who else?
Yeah, there's some there's some videos coming out. Yeah, I got some got some projects working on
So to support you you have a patreon. You also have uh, they can go and subscribe and help grow the channel and stop
Hit that up
Go subscribe to neil. Yeah, it's like a nasty conforming. It'll come right up
Okay, awesome. David. What about you my friend?
Well, well, well, uh, so everyone knows I hope everyone knows the slavery panel
We absolutely we're going to absolutely slap the apologies down. Um, well not me the bible school is going to bring the fire
Everyone knows about that. I've permanent enough but something that people don't know
That I have it's not up up there yet, but neil is coming back on the channel
But this is going to be an extra fun stream in the next week. Oh, yeah, that's right at the book off. We're doing a book
A bookshelf tour, right? So he's gonna get we're gonna I'm gonna say bring five five of your favorite religious texts
Bring five of your favorite novels bring five of your favorite. Um
You know, whatever we're gonna come up with a list of stuff and we're gonna compare books
And it's just gonna be like I love this book for this reason. Yep. I love this book to this reason
And it's just gonna be a big old
Bible, uh, bibliophile bookstream, right? Like I like that idea. Yeah. Yeah, it's just gonna be let's go to the sources
Let's get to the yeah. Yeah, and we're just gonna we're just gonna nerd out on each other's books essentially and and and
Yeah, so big bookstream. So that's what we'll that's gonna be a fun one. Um, we're gonna be doing that the next week
So subscribe to his youtube channel, please
Digital homerabi in the chat dr. Josh. I gotta address it again. I think you missed it myth vision podcast
I just have a question about the intro video. Maybe maybe he's teasing me again. I don't know
Is the red pill thing political in some way?
Zero to do with Paul. It's it's because he's a fan of Andrew tight. That's the only reason
Yeah, yeah, if I had known that this is the kind of crap that I would have had
I just would have reversed the matrix thing and made it a blue pill
Okay, the point is is it's it's simply going off of the matrix
So what political stuff has done with the matrix since then has zero to do with my point and I made the analogy
Yeah, right
I made the analogy to to Plato's cave dr. Josh saying
I use it all the time to talk about my experience getting off drugs or my experience leaving christianity
But I like zero I have no intention of meaning
Like the platonic forms that Plato's initial meaning was so I mean it in a different way
I'm reinterpreting the Plato's cave analogy to kind of give my own thing
And that's exactly what the matrix intro I have is is son
Do you want to know the truth?
and it's really
You know follow what you know to be the case and exit the fundamentalist
Bubble and if you notice carefully in the intro when we're playing it. It's an outro intro
There are towers just like the matrix where you're exiting the matrix in the movie matrix
Yeah, um those towers have humans that are powering them
closely, I have symbols the cross
uh, Judaism
uh, Islam
Hinduism I have all the world religions that are literally little images
You can't even notice it because it's so small but in those towers
It's the world religion that those towers are powered by humans the humans that are powering them keeping them going
And I escape my pod
And it's the scholar silhouettes that actually helped me come out of the pod into the ship and travel to try and go save
Humanity, right? I'm trying to save humanity, but it's it's it's my own little mythos cartoon. So that's that's it
I had to address it. Uh, I want to make it very clear. So nil
David we have courses coming up as well. We're gonna be selling those
You don't want to miss out and I just signed up for my first myth vision podcast course. There we go. It's amazing
Thank you. All right. Now we're off to the uh matrix
love y'all
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this there's no turning back
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to
You take the red pill and you stay in wonderland
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes
Remember all I'm offering is the truth
Nothing more
Oh
Oh
Oh
