So I think the only reason we get a prominent mention of Essence is because Josephus is
personalized street.
It's a difficult question to answer because Christianity seems to be similar to a lot
of sects.
Like I was mentioning in another clip, hillalite Phariseeism is almost identical to Jesus'
teaching.
It's like talking to the Christian and telling them about the actual historical Jesus, if
you approach it, it's like, no, we want the Christ.
Or your average Jehovah's Witness, and you want to explain to them Lutheranism as the
original Protestantism, and they're like, the average Jehovah's Witness is not going
to know anything about that, nor care.
It's not relevant.
Well, Luther is wrong.
It doesn't matter.
Catholics are wrong, too.
It doesn't matter.
We've got our own thing.
We have our own revelations, etc.
Dr. Richard Carrier, I've got a question from one of my Patreon members, David Baccotti.
I hope I'm pronouncing that right.
Hello, Derek.
Thanks for the great content from subjects to guests.
I have a question or related to questions.
Were the Essenes the most likely progenitors of early Christians?
Why aren't the Essenes mentioned in the New Testament unless the references to the poor,
the way, and saints are references to them?
Why do the Essenes seem to evaporate just as Christianity begins to precipitate?
Thanks again.
Yeah, so I think the Essenes were a much smaller sect than the Sadducees, and much less influential
sect than the Sadducees and the Pharisees.
The only reason they get prominent mention is because Josephus decides to include them,
his list of the top sects.
But he includes in the four sects the zealots, basically, which he calls the fourth way.
I think that's because Josephus himself dabbled in Essenism, and I think he still has some
sympathies with Essenism, even though he himself is a Pharisee, weirdly, because he's also
a priest in the temple, which were normally Sadducees.
Josephus has an interesting story, but he sampled all these sects and bounced around
them.
I think the only reason we get a prominent mention of Essenes is because Josephus' personal
history.
I think the sect itself is quite small, and also the gospels are written after the war,
so this is another important thing.
After the war, a lot of this stuff died out.
The Sadducees were a thing of the past, basically, because they were so invested in the temple
sect, the temple's gone, so that sect was pretty much just devastated.
The Pharisees were the ones who mainly survived, and especially were the more popular in the
diaspora, and could continue.
I don't know how popular Essenism actually was among the diaspora, and in Judea everything
got late-waste.
I think Essenism kind of basically died out through circumstances of war and politics
of the time.
When the gospels are being written, the authors aren't even necessarily all that familiar
with Essenes, because there aren't a lot of Essenes around, certainly not in the diaspora.
They're familiar with the traditional two sects that argued with each other, the Sadducees
and the Pharisees.
Those are the sects that they know a lot about.
Those are the more popular, more famous sects, so that's why those sects show up in the
gospels.
I don't think we can infer that, for example, Jesus represents the Essenes.
We're not the case, they would just say it.
We don't have any ... It's possible though, but it's not directly stated, so we can't
make that inference.
The other aspect of that question is, to what extent is Christianity Essen?
It's a difficult question to answer, because Christianity seems to be similar to a lot
of sects.
As I was mentioning in another clip, Hillelite Phariseism is almost identical to Jesus' teaching.
Jesus seems to be a Hillelite Pharisee, and that's a thing that wouldn't be obvious to
someone who's reading the gospels and doesn't know the context, because the Pharisees in
there are always actually Shammites, but they're never said to be.
It's like the idea of the existence of Hillelite Pharisees is erased from the text.
It's not there, and the only way it is there is in the voice of Jesus.
Jesus is a little bit more conservative than Hillel on some points, but most of what he's
arguing is Hillelite Phariseism.
I think whoever is writing these texts is oversimplifying the reality, because they're
thinking, well, we're going to use Pharisees as sort of the old moniker for the old conservative
Shammite religion.
Then we're going to have Jesus as our representative of Hillelite Phariseism.
They wouldn't necessarily have called it that, right?
They would know, oh yeah, this is closer to the teachings of Hillel, and Hillel happened
to be a Pharisee, yada yada.
They would see it as their own way.
It's their own sect.
They're not Pharisees.
They're their own thing.
They're actually rebelling against Phariseism, even though most of their ideas are coming
from the liberal wing of Phariseism.
But there's a lot of stuff in Jesus that's put in the mouth of Jesus, and we find in
the letters of Paul that very much resembles the Essenes, and also there's a lot of overlap
between that, the Essenes, and the Dead Sea sect.
So a lot of people, a lot of scholars have suggested that the Dead Sea sect, if it was
one sect, it might even have been the stash of documents from multiple sects, for all
we know.
But even if it was one sect, it does seem to be related to the Essenes.
Now if you go looking through the literature and the ancient discussions of the Essenes,
there is a definite assumption at the time that the Essenes were an offshoot of the Samaritans,
which is an interesting, if you look at that, then that pulls in Samaritanism, and there
are other people have suggested there's aspects of Samaritanism, and Jesus is teaching too.
So this gets really complicated, and I don't think we can really nail it down.
I think there's multiple influences coming in, they're doing their own thing.
One place where you could hope to nail it down, but we can't because the sources are
gone, would be what sect was it before it was Christian, because if we have like the
1 Corinthians 15, it says, then Jesus appeared to Kaphos and the 12, and we know there was
a 12 in the Dead Sea sect, because they were the counter-cultural sect, they were anti-temple,
they were creating their own survivalist community, and setting up their own government
to represent the true government, and they had their own quorum of 12, who presumably
would replace the leadership of the 12 tribes in the end times, because the temple cult
is going to get destroyed by God, because they fucked those guys basically.
So we know they had these quorums of 12, this was an aspect of these counter-cultural
sects.
So it looks like there was already Kaphos heading a quorum of 12 for his own sect, before
he had this vision that said, the end times are now, it's happening, Jesus has just atoned
12 sins, that solved the problem now, he said he's resurrected from the dead, so the resurrection
has begun, the end times has begun.
So I think there was a sect already that wasn't Christian, that became or broke off from that
to become Christian, Kaphos and his committee of 12, just realigned it to this new apocalyptic
movement, right?
So what was that sect?
And I do suspect it was probably a branch of the Essenes, but it might have had a lot
of Pharisee influence, and so it might have been, you know, they might have been an offshoot
of the Pharisees in the same way that the Dead Sea sect is, they're like cousins, but
they're getting, they see themselves as independent, they're their own thing, and so there might
have been a lot of Pharisee influence that they're adopting, similar perspectives.
And so that's what I suspect, we can't prove any of this, because all the source information
that we would need is gone.
We can't go talk to Peter and say, hey, what would you have called yourself before you
had this revelation?
Right.
So we don't know, really.
And then there's a difference between the sect as Paul knows it, right?
The sect that Paul joins, and the gospels, right?
Each gospel is writing for a different community that's evolved considerably since then.
It's all post-war, so everything's changed by then.
So Essenism is no longer relevant, it's no longer salient to their cultural milieu, so
that's why it's not going to come up.
Even if there were connections with Essenism, they might not even have known that by that
point, right?
There's no sign that they actually have a good sense of their own history when they're
writing these documents, and they're not even interested in that, really.
They're interested in looking to the future, they're writing for the future in their present
community.
History, I know historicists and especially Christian apologists want this to be, they
want them to be historically conscious, and they want them to care about history.
I don't think that's what they're doing in these gospels.
I don't think they think that they're writing history, I think they think they're writing
parables that will be useful for teaching in their present community, and so what is
historically true is less interesting to them.
They're not researching that, they don't care, because it's not relevant to what they're
doing.
They're speaking to the future in the present, and they're going to tell stories, whatever
stories they need to tell, true or false, to do that.
So researching their own history, figuring out, oh, we descend from Essenism, that wouldn't
even be, that would not even interest them, that research.
It would be irrelevant to what their project is.
It's like talking to the Christian and telling them about the actual historical Jesus, if
you approach it, it's like, no, we want the Christ.
Or your average Jehovah's Witness, and you want to explain to them Lutheranism as the
original Protestantism, and they're like, the average Jehovah's Witness is not going
to know anything about that, nor care.
It's not relevant.
Luther is wrong, it doesn't matter.
Catholics are wrong too, it doesn't matter.
We got our own thing, we have our own revelations, etc.
And yeah, they very much see themselves as the true Christianity all, everybody else
is corrupt in some fashion or other, even the sects out of which they agree themselves.
This begs the question, just to finally wrap up this particular one, is we always have
the question of, did Christianity start with this one thing and then just spread off into
these fractions so different too, that it's hard to believe that they would even have
come from this one Jerusalem sect of Essene slash Pharisee type Christians.
What do you think of this?
Because this, to me, it actually bolsters the mythicist claim a little bit to suggest multiple
heavenly figures.
Yeah.
Cool.
I mean, Earl Dougherty has pushed that, right?
And I think Earl Dougherty does good work generally.
This I think it's going beyond the evidence, right?
I think the evidence is pretty clear that this is a nuclear Big Bang version of the
events.
Kephas had this revelation and that started everything rolling.
The ball started then.
There wasn't a Jesus before that.
Or insofar as there was, it was this angelic figure that was just part of their angelology.
It wasn't like a central figure for them.
So I think Peter's the one who's starting all of this and everything, everything snowballs
from there.
And then it just quickly, people spin off, it gets so popular.
Paul's already talking about people deviating from the original gospel and stuff like that.
But it's clear Paul is perfectly aware that the religion started with Kephas.
There was no Christianity before that.
But what about James?
And everything else?
Isn't he under James supposedly?
Well, see, that's a modern anachronism.
There actually is no actual evidence for a Jamesian Christianity.
This is largely a construct of modern scholarship.
There are some like fourth century examples of people talking about a supposed Jamesian
Christianity.
But there's no evidence of it in the New Testament.
There's no evidence of it, even well into the second century.
You have to get way late second century to even have significant legends about James
that even make him a prominent person.
There's no James who's significant in the book of Acts other than the ones who are part
of the same sect.
They're followers of Peter.
And Galatians too, clearly it's the pillars.
These are the same figures that are part of the same nuclear origin under Kephas.
There's no separate Jamesian movement.
Even when James is criticizing Peter in Galatians, this is internal debate.
You mean Paul.
Paul.
No, no.
James is.
Yeah, because Paul talks about how James got mad at Peter for shirking a little bit on
Torah observance.
And Paul's, of course, trying to solve this by saying, let's have Peter stick with the
Jews and I'll be the one who does to the Gentiles and to try and reconcile this argument
that is built up amongst the pillars.
But the pillars are still part of the same movement.
They're not a separate thing.
So James, including among them.
So they're equal on, at the very least, we can't tell.
The way Paul talks about it is that Kephas is kind of the, it's more egalitarian.
It's kind of a commune.
So there's not like there is a pope.
It's not that way.
It's just we're all community and the apostles is the highest rank.
There's no leading apostle.
But as people will talk about, there's literal hierarchy and then there's de facto hierarchy.
And I think the de facto hierarchy is that people would look to Peter as the highest
ranking apostle.
Now, that wasn't an official position.
That wasn't something he could claim, I'm the highest apostle, so you should listen
to me.
It's just he had the most influence because he's the first revelator.
But you see, the pillars do seem to be the higher ranking.
It's very clearly these three, John, James, and Peter, were very much regarded as the
leaders of the church.
Everybody else underranked them in some fashion for some reason.
That's very clear.
Paul's saying that Peter to the uncircumcised, like he is the leader in a sense of this.
And Paul's minded, not leader, but he's like trying to find a position for himself to have
authority.
Right.
He's trying to divide up the fiefdoms.
He's trying to prevent this internecine war within the sect.
There's a lot of political shit that Paul is doing with that.
And it makes sense for Paul to do this.
But the egalitarianism of the movement allows Paul to do this.
This is why you can't, Kephas just can't say, no, I'm the lead apostle.
You do what I say.
He can't do that because it's too egalitarian.
It's too communistic, the original sect at this time.
But to get back to your original question, the multiple versions, I think there is a
truth, as you said, that if that were the case, that would strongly support, that would
give a support, not necessarily strong, but definitely a support to mythicism.
Because you can make a case, and I do not, I do not, contrary to what people have claimed,
I do not claim that we can prove this, but there is evidence of this, which is that there
was always this Jesus angelology, that the figure that Kephas suddenly had the revelation
that he had acquired a body, died and risen, all this new information, suddenly everything's
changed.
That figure was already a significant figure in their angelologies.
They already had a Jesus angel.
It just means Joshua, Savior of God, and it's a particular angel that Philo identifies as
the angel of many names.
I think Philo even specifically thought that it was named Jesus.
Now that's a debatable point because it hinges on how Philo is interpreting the text that
he's talking about, yada yada.
But definitely Paul and the first Christians did believe that.
They did believe that their Jesus was the same angel as the angel of many names, whether
Philo knew him under the name Jesus or not.
But if he did, and Philo's like we're talking 20s AD, and Philo might be referring to angelology
that's developed long before him, so there may have been many sects that would have conversations
to talk about Jesus as the Savior of God, the voice piece of God, etc., the Son of God.
They would call him the Son of God.
They would have called him the Creator.
They would have called him the image of God.
They would have called him the Logos even.
Paul would have known him.
Even though Paul never calls him the Logos, he would have recognized that as an identifying
figure for his Jesus.
So there could be multiple movements in which you would find literature where they're talking
about a Jesus figure before you even get to any belief that this Jesus figure became
a human died and rose from death.
So when we're talking about Christianity, we're talking about that.
The sudden revelation that he took on a body, he came down, took on a body, a mortal body
died and rose from the dead.
That's Christianity.
Everything else is just other sects.
But that's Christianity, and so that was a singular event.
Everyone came up with that one innovation, and that almost certainly by all the evidence
we have was Kephas, and everything after that was iterations and riffing on the thing that
he invented.
And so I think the evidence is pretty strong on that.
If we could find more evidence of parallel Jesus movements, I could say more about this,
but the evidence is really scant, really speculative.
It's not solid enough to work with.
So I would love to have it because it would inform us a lot more about where Christianity
came from and what figure it was talking about when it started, but the evidence is not strong
enough to convince me to use it as a premise.
Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us, but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier all on the Patreon, Early
Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars, and you're
helping MythVision grow.
