If you want to help MythVision podcast grow, you can join our Patreon, there are different
tiers, as well as help out with PayPal.
Thank you so much, don't forget to like, subscribe, share, and comment.
Question from Derek Bennett.
Dr. Bob.
Dr. Bob has suggested that the Gospels probably stem from the 2nd century.
I'd like to hear his reasoning for this, or for thinking so.
Well, I've gone over this a bunch of times, too, but I don't mind doing it again.
Mark, which does seem to me to be the earliest Gospel, presupposes several delays of the
Parosia.
This generation will not pass away.
Whoever said that figured in their generation that it would happen, but it didn't.
So you have, elsewhere in Mark, there are some standing here who will not taste death
before they see the Kingdom.
Then by editorial placement of the Transfiguration, it's pretty obvious that someone is trying
to substitute a non-eschatological fulfillment, because that didn't happen either.
So what could the Disciples have seen that might be construed as the coming of the Kingdom?
And only some of them.
Well, Jesus took Peter, James, and John up the mountain to see them transformed.
Is that a foretaste of the Kingdom?
It doesn't say so.
Matthew doesn't even seem to think so.
He just uses it to say, Jesus is a new Moses.
But why does he take only the three?
It doesn't say.
It's just that that fits the saying.
And then you've got, in the Apocalyptic Discourse, in the form we now read it, this is going
to happen, that's going to happen, the other is going to happen, but don't get upset, because
it's not yet.
So at one point, these are the signs to watch out for.
But no, they don't herald the immediate coming.
You still have more things in here.
They are.
It's exactly like Second Thessalonians.
Don't you realize this and that, and the other thing have to happen, it's not going
to happen immediately.
It's the same reasoning.
And then it says in Mark, again, Mark 13, that the Gospel must be preached to the whole
world.
How long is that going to take?
It seems to me that's another way of pushing it off.
Is Mark written around 70?
For all of that to happen, it seems to me, no, this place is a good bit later.
Also, if Hermon Dettering is right, and I think it's a pretty good argument, Mark 13
as a whole is based on, well, as Timothy Kalani argued, I think of the 19th century, the little
apocalypse theory that this pamphlet that somebody in Jerusalem circulated on the eve
of the Roman siege, that when you see this and that, you better get your butt out of
there and head for the hills, that later on, that was preserved by insertion into a simpler
story where the disciples are gawking at the huge buildings, the temple, like a bunch
of Galilean hicks.
And Jesus says, oh, you find that impressive.
Well, look at them while you can, fellas, because soon not one stone will be left on
another.
But when is this going to happen?
And the original response was, no one knows the day or the hour, not the angels, not the
son, only the father.
So that it was simply about the destruction of Jerusalem.
But since this tract was also about that, though without an eschatological dimension,
that was sewn into it.
By the way, just as Revelation chapter 11, the little scroll was stitched into the book
of Revelation, where it doesn't exactly fit, it's talking about the great beast who hasn't
even been introduced yet, he's introduced two chapters later.
So it's the same sort of thing, there's a real analogy there.
Okay, so Mark used it, but Dettering says Matthew probably had it, they didn't burn
all the copies after Mark used it, no reason to think so anyway, Matthew had it and preferred
it and used the original version, which is interesting because Matthew's version fits
the history of the events around the fall of Jerusalem better than Mark's, and he goes
into each one where it's attested or not attested, and he said if Mark's originally,
the one he used before he redacted it, was like that, then that it's talking about the
destruction of Jerusalem in Bar Cahba's time, 132 whatever it was, then Mark is using something
that was written already in the first third of the second century.
So it seems to me you've got definite reason to push it into the second century, plus the
Gospels are not attested textually, the most you've got is some stuff that sounds kind
of like them in 1st Clement and in Justin Martyr, but it's not direct quotes.
Okay, Luke is just filled with stuff about the delay of the Parosia, to throw cold water
on what some of his disciples are saying as they approach Jerusalem, he told the story
of the king that goes far away to be invested as king, and it's a long time before he gets
back and asks his enemies slaughtered and rewards the good guys.
When the Pharisees ask, when's the kingdom of God going to come, he says it's not going
to come that way, the kingdom of God is within.
What the heck?
Well how'd this happen?
Acts chapter one, Lord is this the time where you're going to restore sovereignty to Israel?
That's none of your business, just go out and breach, I mean this is a definite pattern.
There's some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God come
in power, Mark and Matthew say.
In Luke they chop off in power because that is used at least two other times in the New
Testament for the resurrection of the dead.
And well no, no, that's not going to happen in any time soon.
And so forth, and it's already, like Mark is in the rear view mirror already and there
have been several gospels, all of which Luke is trying to supersede.
And the whole thing Consulman points out that in Luke and acts you have a real sea change
that now what Jesus did was to stop, to bring to a conclusion a dispensation which is to
be replaced by the church age.
So that's going to need some time.
The Gospel of John is all about realized eschatology, Lord what has happened that you'll reveal
yourself to us and not to the whole world, you know, I thought well as every eye shall
see him, no?
Or Lord I know my brother will rise at the resurrection of the last day whoopee, doesn't
be a lot of good now, and he says no, I am the resurrection.
Or in chapter six I think it is, he says, don't be surprised if I say that the hour
is coming and now is when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God and those who
hear will live.
Now the ecclesiastical redactor has paraphrased that a little later in the same chapter to
say and the dead in their graves, those who are literally dead, will hear the voice of
God and come forth to face his reward or punishment, like these things don't mean nothing.
You can't just say where there's smoke, oh there's no fire.
It just seems that the, plus well yeah and it just seems to me that the whole idea of
having abandoned the literal second coming, which John seems to have done originally,
that seems to imply there's a lot of water under the bridge and even the tradition says
that it was written around the end of the first century.
But of course all the older scholars were really apologists who were trying to come
up with a plausible date for the gospel as early as they could and there's just no reason
to do that.
Whereas with Luke there's all kinds of other stuff, analogies with the infancy gospels,
the Hellenistic novels and the apocryphal gospels and so forth.
It seems pretty plain to me that you're dealing with a second century work in all of these
cases.
Is there a specific book that you've written on this particular?
Well I know I have an appendix to Killing History, that critique of O'Reilly's Killing
Jesus.
One of the appendices is all about that, but I think in, I deal with that also in my introductions
to the gospels in the pre-Nicene New Testament and also in Holy Fable Volume 2 about the
gospels and acts.
