Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor Elaine Pagels, I've got a question, Irenaeus the Church Father said that the
four Gospels were written by the disciples, or if you will, followers of Jesus.
We now have really good reason not to believe such claims.
Does this open up a door for Gnostic Gospels to potentially carry more weight?
Irenaeus was a leader of the Church in Lyons in France, and he was very much troubled by
the fact that different Christians in his group were reading different Gospels.
He says, look, some people are reading only one Gospel, they're reading only Luke.
In other parts of the world, they're reading only Matthew, some are reading John, some
are reading the Gospel of Thomas, and then there are these heretics that they say they
have more Gospels than there really are, I'm quoting him.
He said, but really they have no Gospel that isn't full of blasphemy.
So he was aware that there was a lot of differentiation between different groups because they were
reading different sources and getting very different ideas.
So he said, look, we've got to consolidate here.
How do we do it?
Well, there are four Gospels that he believed were written by disciples of Jesus, and he
was probably told that in the second century by his mentor, Bishop Polycarp in Syria.
He was the spiritual father of Irenaeus, and Irenaeus, to be a missionary among the barbarian
people who lived in what is now France, spoke some weird barbarian language that wasn't
Greek.
So Irenaeus said, look, there really can be only four Gospels.
If you ask him why, he said, well, it's kind of a scientific explanation.
There's four corners of the universe, and there are four principal winds.
This is Greek cosmology.
And so there can be only four Gospels.
It's just natural that there's only four Gospels.
And so he insisted that this was the God-given quaternity of Gospels.
He called it the Four Form Gospels.
He said, well, it's really one Gospel, because when he talked about a Gospel, he meant the
preached message.
And he said, the message is supported by four pillars.
The four pillars are Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and they give you different aspects
of Jesus.
So he said, Matthew, he talks about the physical genealogy of Jesus the Messiah in the Davidic
line, the king of Israel.
Mark, he talks about Jesus as a prophet.
Luke, he talks about Jesus as a physician and a priest, of sort of a healer of souls.
And John talks about Jesus in the highest possible way as God in human form.
So really, he said, you need them all, and they all agree with one another.
And these are the only Gospels you can use.
Now, he said, look, there are people who say Jesus had secret teaching.
He doesn't say, Mark says that in chapter four.
He says, there are people who say Jesus had secret teaching, but that's not true.
He contradicts what is said in Mark's Gospel, chapter four.
He contradicts Paul when Paul says he has secret teaching in 1 Corinthians two, six,
and seven.
He says, no, there's no valid secret teaching at all.
Paul didn't do it.
Jesus didn't do it.
Forget that.
God forbid, there's a teaching you don't know.
Well, we don't accept them because if it's a secret teaching, you might have written
it.
How do we know that Jesus said that?
Well, so he chooses a very definitive, conservative position, which excludes any other source as
authoritative as a Gospel than the four in the New Testament.
And he didn't have the power to enforce that conviction.
That was his desire to say the heretics are wrong.
They say there are other Gospels.
Just forget that.
But after Constantine became the first Christian emperor, and Christians were now favorites
of the empire, and they received the Christian bishops were no longer persecuted and torn
to death in the arenas and put on trial and tortured because they were Christians.
Now they were powerful friends of the emperor.
Now the bishop of Egypt, for example, could become the richest man in the whole city because
he had the control of the grain supply.
He received political power and financial power from the emperor.
And now there was political power and there was actually military power to back up the
claims of those who call themselves orthodox.
So the followers of Irenaeus, bishop like Athanasius in Egypt, Catholic Bishop, followed
Irenaeus said, okay, now we can implement those four Gospels.
We can make it effectively church law that they're only four Gospels.
We will write the Creed, the Nicene Creed.
We will put this all into a very organized form.
And we will have the first Orthodox Catholic communion based on three things.
The Creed, statement of what we believe written out by a committee, the Nicene Creed will
have a canon, these books, no other books, and will have the clergy.
And they will have to be Catholics.
They'll have to be part of our group who agree to those, the shape of this Orthodox Catholic
church.
I'm really glad you elaborated all that because everything you just said kind of comes back
full circle to, once we know the reasoning behind, look, I get it, four winds, four corners
of the earth, et cetera, et cetera.
But now with the way we understand things and look at it, trying to look behind, what
is he really trying to do?
I think we can see through some of this and we can go, okay, these Gospels that he meshes
together, they supposedly all go together perfectly, it makes sense as to why a diatesseron
was taken to writ, you know what I mean, why someone wanted to do that.
Yes.
And he also said something very important.
He said, look, you want to be a Christian?
Okay, you can join our church.
What you have to do is you have to go through a catechism.
We'll teach you what the true teaching is and then you'll come to be baptized.
We'll wash away your sins, put you under the water and then you will recite the Creed
and you will say, we believe in God, Creator of all things, we believe in Jesus Christ's
only Son, we believe in the virgin birth, we believe in the resurrection from the dead,
the bodily resurrection of Jesus, the judgment, the life to come and so forth.
You will say the Creed and once you have done that, you have to stop there.
You have to say, that's what I believe and that's where I stand.
He said, but there are people among us who say, okay, we've been baptized, we've said
the Creed, we're believers, but we also include these other advanced teachings.
And now that you're part of the church and you've become established as a Christian,
you've started to practice, maybe you've been a Christian for 10 years, now consider
other ways of interpreting this.
Consider some other questions.
What do we really mean by God?
What do we really mean by resurrection?
What do we really mean by virgin birth?
Come to our group and we'll open up a deeper level of understanding.
Irenaeus says, don't believe those people.
You're going to try to initiate you again into a second level of initiation.
You don't need that.
Baptism is all.
Stay there.
With that Creed, don't go anywhere else, just like Tertullian.
Once you have the truth, just stick to that nothing else.
I guess where I'm going in at this, because I see what he's doing here and they're making
it organized.
Exactly.
Organizing an institution, organization.
But when his foundations for why the four gospels and why this and why that, like divorcing
the whole political scene and why this makes sense, why he would do this, doesn't it open
up the door to say, okay, he is not accepting these other ideas because they really kind
of flow against what he's trying to accomplish.
And oftentimes they're teaching things contrary to the things he finds acceptable.
For example, we look at the gospels, we know there's problems.
We know there's problems between them.
Maybe this is why a diatesseron is being written.
Would you think that that would be why they wrote it is to try and harmonize the problems?
Yes.
Yes.
I mean, if you accept those four gospels, then why not just put them and write them
together into one?
It didn't work that way.
I think because the narrative of Mark is so vivid and powerful, John's gospel is also
powerful in its way, and so is Matthew and Luke's.
So the diatesseron is kind of a mess, you know, it's all swooshed together, and it
just didn't read well, didn't preach you well.
But there's another reason Irenaeus was very much concerned, as you said, Derek, to create
an institutional church and define it.
And that is that his life was at stake.
Christians, in the time he was living in 160, were being rounded up and arrested, accused
of being Christians.
If they said they were, they were being tortured to death and condemned to go into the sports
arena and die in public torture.
There were probably 22 members of his own churches, people who refused to deny that
they were Christians, who were publicly tortured and executed to entertain the crowd on the
Emperor's birthday.
Because ordinarily, when you're a governor of a province and you're supposed to supply
the entertainment, you have to go pay for gladiators, trained athletes.
You have to get sword fighters, you have to get strange animals, you have to get people
who, gladiators, who will have a battle to the death in the arena.
This is how you entertain the public, right?
But at the time that Irenaeus was living, there was inflation.
The governors were having a hard time getting enough taxes.
So they appealed to Marcus Aurelius, sent him a petition and they said, look, it's very
expensive to get gladiators and athletes to populate the circuses on your birthday, to
celebrate for the population.
Do you mind if we use condemned criminals?
Because that's a lot cheaper and it's pretty entertaining.
We can set animals on them and they could be torn apart by wild animals and it's good,
it's exciting.
And Emperor Marcus Aurelius said, yes, that's all right, you can use condemned criminals.
It was at that point that Christians were hounded, arrested, tortured.
Are you a Christian or not?
And if you didn't give up under torture, you were sent to wait in prison for the day of
the Emperor's birthday when you would die in public entertainment.
So that was the kind of danger he was under.
And Irenaeus was not just power hungry, he wanted the churches to survive.
And he felt like the American revolutionaries, you know, when they said, when they were signing
the Declaration of Independence, if we don't all hang together, it's sure that we will
all hang separately.
And so he wanted his group to inform Christians in Rome that our people are being tortured
here and they're part of the same group as you.
And we want you to understand that.
And he wanted to unify churches all over the known world.
And to do that, they needed an organizational structure.
So that's another important part of the story.
It was persecution that sort of pressured leaders like Irenaeus to try to create a structure
that would define who was in and who was out.
Wow.
So much to say.
So much, yeah.
Yeah, it's more to the story.
Yeah, looking at it from each side kind of makes you sympathize, too.
Well, yeah, it is a story about persecution.
Very much so.
In fact, when Irenaeus himself, he was not arrested.
He was sent to Rome by the people who confessed that they were Christians and who were scheduled
to die in the arena.
They sent him to Rome to tell people what was happening.
And when he went to Rome, he said he had a vision of his own teacher being burned alive
in the public stadium back in Syria.
And that had happened.
His own teacher in his 80s, respected teacher of Christianity, called the Teacher of Asia,
was condemned as a Christian because he refused to say he was not.
And he was burned alive in a public stadium to entertain the crowds.
And Irenaeus said he somehow felt it was happening at the time.
And that shaped very much his view of, say, nonconformists.
He wanted to get people inside the fold.
And the Gnostics, being nonconformist, anti-authoritarian, in a sense, they fought against that.
So he had a good axe to grind when it came to these people.
Simultaneously, it seems like Revelation, which we're going to get into some of these
questions that you wrote on the book, but this fits exactly into why he applied it to
himself and became kind of a heretic with this literature.
I have questions about the book of Revelation that we'll get to, but the point I'm making,
I guess, is important.
In light of the constant still persecution done by the Romans that is still happening
during his own time, this book was still a thumbs up in guys like him.
But then eventually, next thing you know, their power in Rome's got, Rome stops all
that nonsense, and it didn't quite end the way they expected it would.
Yes, that's right.
So it's a fascinating history.
That's right.
But when we think about the early Christian movement, it is a fact that persecution wasn't
everywhere at once.
It wasn't massive and worldwide, it couldn't be.
The world we're talking about went from Iran to Egypt to Africa to Spain to France to
Belgium to what is now Britain.
It was, they called it the whole world, right?
The whole world as Rome knew it.
You can't govern that.
So persecution would break out when this governor got serious about getting rid of those people,
or that governor wanted to show that he was tough, or the emperor would make some statement
like, get after those Christians.
So it was sporadic.
And some people, some scholars even, or people who claim to be scholars, think it was kind
of a sham persecution.
And then it was a myth they made up.
One scholar, Candida Moss, says that, I think she's very wrong.
Because she says, well, it wasn't that many people who got killed, you know, it wasn't
a massive empire-wide movement, and I want to say no, it wasn't.
But if you were, for example, to go to New Jersey, where Princeton is, and you go into
certain parts of New Jersey, and you arrest a Muslim leader, and another one, torture
that person and kill him, everybody would know.
Even in a world in which you don't have communications like now.
You don't have to kill a lot of people to terrify everyone.
And that's what persecution is about.
You don't need to kill everybody.
You need to scare them to death, and tell them to don't say you're part of that movement
anymore.
Because that movement is probably involving insurrection against Rome.
They're probably traitors.
So we're trying to scare you into giving it up.
Persecution was a tremendous threat.
We know, after all, Peter was beheaded, no, Peter was, Paul was whipped and beheaded by
Roman order, the Roman governor.
Peter was crucified, James was lynched to death in Jerusalem.
So the best known leaders of the Christian groups in Jerusalem, Rome, and all over were
executed by the Roman Empire, and everybody knew that.
That did scare them.
Thank you.
