Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to MythVision Podcast. Dr. Airman has a course called Finding
Moses. Be sure to go sign up. You can learn some interesting things from a historian, scholar on
biblical studies. He knows this Hebrew Bible. And welcome back to MythVision, Dr. Airman.
Thanks for having me. Thank you. I'd like to ask you pertaining to Moses as this course is called
Finding Moses. I just went to Israel, of course, or the Holy Land, if you will, not to get into
politics. And we were trying to find Jesus, meaning following in the footsteps. When it comes to
Moses, this is a whole interesting topic. Many people have their thoughts about. And I'm wondering
if there's any connection between the monotheism of Akhenaten and that eventually developed by the
proto-Israelite Desert Tribe wandering around Northwest Arabia during this period. You may know
the psycho and analysis Sigmund Freud, who wrote a book called Moses and Monotheism back in the 1930s
that advanced such a hypothesis with Moses as the intermediary. However, if Moses never existed,
it would have still been possible for the idea to reach the tribe through interactions with
traders, soldiers, and mining operations Egypt had in the Sinai. Such a connection is feasible
from a time perspective since Akhenaten ruled from about 1356 to 1334 BC, while the first evidence
of Israel monotheism did not occur for another century, or we could even go further. How would
you respond to this? It's a great question. A lot of people have wondered about it because you do get
this Pharaoh, who he didn't become a monotheist. He became a monologer. He believed in worshiping
only one God, and he made that the official God. It's about 100 years before the Exodus event
is allegedly probably happened. Is it possible that these Israelites are in Egypt and they get
influenced by Egyptians, or even after they come out of Egypt? It's a very good question.
The issues are complicated by a number of factors. One is, we don't know when Israel actually became
emphatically insistent on worshiping only Yahweh. Most scholars today don't think that the Exodus
story, as it happens in the book of Exodus, could possibly have happened in the way it's described,
where you've got several million people leaving their slavery and wandering in wilderness for 40
years, and the entire Egyptian army being destroyed. They're in the wilderness before
conquering the land. That story is implausible in lots of levels. I'll be talking about it in my
course. It's not that nothing happened. Probably something happened. The people who later identified
themselves as Israel had stories about having some kind of origin in Egypt, as semites in Egypt.
So something probably happened. But what is another question? The other question, though,
is when did these people in what we would later call Israel, then it was Canaan,
when did this group of people start becoming, when did they start worshiping only one God,
start practicing monolatry, rather than being polytheists? That's hard to say. You don't get
monotheism itself until the book of 2nd Isaiah, like the 6th century. That's the first place
that you have anybody say, there's only one God. It's unlikely that's being picked up
from Egyptian roots at that point. You later, by the way, get monolatry in Greek and Roman
circles, where people acknowledge other gods, but they start worshiping one God, because this is
the greatest God. And so it's not just Egypt, and it's not just Israel. It's also different
Greek and Roman groups. And the question is, how does that happen? It may be that somebody's
borrowing from somebody, but it may also be that there's this kind of movement that happens
within religion, where like you worship in a bunch of gods, and then you kind of limit it,
because you can't worship them all, and then you pick someone. And one, you really, and you start
saying, you are the greatest, you are the most powerful, you are the most wise, and eventually
that's the one you worship, because you go for the best. And if that may have happened within
Israel, it hasn't happened at one moment in Egypt 400 years ago, depending on what happened
in Israel. And it certainly happened later in Rome. I hope people will check out your course,
because it's extremely enlightening for people to understand the context of what you're describing.
I did an interview with Karakuni, who's an Egyptologist who wrote a book called The Good Kings.
We mentioned monotheism and Akhenaten, and there is a debate among Egyptologists of whether or not
it's monotheism, or like you're talking about, I guess you could say,
Hino-theism or Monolatry. At the end of the day, though, the political power that that kind of
structure had, she said it's never completely left earth from that point onward. It's almost like
the impact that people in power saw that monotheism, or if you will, this having a supreme power at the
top, was so useful as a tool in political power that it eventually gets harnessed in many situations
in that respect. But I like what you're saying. It's kind of an evolutionary idea where eventually
there's like a supreme ultimate being. And I wonder if there's a conflation of ideas,
Babylon making Marduk the supreme, even though there are other gods. And we know that they ruled
the Israelites. So it's difficult for me to put my finger on who did it. Was it Assyria? Was it
Babylon? Was it the Persians? It could be a mix of all over time. Do you have a thought on that?
I think so. I'm very cautious myself, you know, insisting on an evolutionary model, strictly
speaking. I think that the evolution does happen. Of course, everything changes and it doesn't mean
changes for the better. I mean, evolution doesn't necessarily, it can be a devolution as well as
an evolution. I think, though, that in a lot of polytheistic cultures, at least the ones we know
about in the West and in the ancient Near East, that a Pantheon usually does have more powerful
gods than others. And so, in the Greek tradition, Zeus is the father of the gods and he's more
powerful than the others. In the Roman tradition, it's Jupiter. And so, and as you say, you get Marduk
or maybe in various ancient Near Eastern gold, you get various divine beings and you get that.
And then, you know, so, I'm not sure that the way to do it is to say there's somebody who started
it and the others saw the political value of it. I don't think that that's actually how history
usually works. I don't see much evidence that Egypt, with its brief 14th century monotheism,
had much of an effect on Greece or Rome or Judaism or Christianity. So, I don't think it
works that way. I don't think it's like, oh, hey, look, they've got one god. That means, you know,
and eventually in Christianity, of course, it does become a political pet. In Christianity, as Elaine
Pagel showed in her book, The Gnostic Hospice, in early Christianity, the emphasis that Christians
made that there's one god, that the Orthodox Christians made that there's one god against
Gnostic, saying there's lots of god. Because if you've got one god, then you've got one bishop.
And so, bishop is insisting there's only one god because then you don't have a bunch of power
instructions. You've got one. And so, it can be used as a political tool, but I'm not sure that
that's how religions develop by way of kind of, I mean, I'm not sure she's trying to be cynical
about it or not, but I think that it does, you know, I just don't think religions work that way.
And then last question is a simple, subjective one on your part. What do you think about
Moses apologetics? I mean, you're a historian, so you stay in your lane. And I guess it's a
real personal question is, do you kind of get annoyed? Do you think, man, like they're just not
dealing, they're over stretching the evidence? Like, how do you personally feel about people
who want to bend over backwards to try and prove that the biblical narrative as portrayed,
you either misunderstand it, the numbers, oh, well, it doesn't mean those numbers,
like they always find a way to make the story reliable, trustworthy. This really happened.
What are your subjective thoughts about this whole notion?
My view is that all we have is subjective thoughts because we're subjects. And I think that all of
us have biases and prejudices of one kind or another. And I think the task of history is to
bracket your preconceptions as well as you can to hold your beliefs and your prejudices and your
worldviews at bay and try to figure out what happened in the past. And that you that there
aren't different methods for doing that for fundamentalists and, you know, liberal methodists
and Roman Catholics and Greek Orthodox and, you know, Muslims and Buddhists and Jews. I mean,
it's like history is the kind of thing that anybody can do. And it requires that you look at
evidence and let the evidence lead you to your conclusions rather than allowing your conclusions
to lead you to your evidence. My view about the events of the Exodus and Moses, of course, when
I was a Christian, I believe these were literally true. And I continued to think that for a long time.
But then as a Christian, I came to realize that they just can't be true historically. It just
doesn't make any sense. I mean, when you have an Exodus, in the book of Exodus, 600,000 army
military aged men leave Egypt. So men 20 years and older and not including the elders who can't
serve in the army, not including women, not including the children, men, boys and girls.
So you're talking at least two and a half million people. And so how is it that they,
I mean, if you line up two and a half million people, how long is the line? Okay, so they're not
walking a single file. But, you know, they are all camped out at this one oasis. So how do you,
and it says they're in a camp. How do you get two and a half million people in a camp? And how do you
get the whole assembly together? And how do you, how do you feed them? Of course, you use manna,
I guess. But I mean, just on historical terms, does this make any sense? Without there being any
archaeological record of it, or any mention of it in any source, other than the Bible. And so at some
point, you're either going to decide to be a historian, or to be a believer. And if you're
a believer, you can be a believer who's a historian. But if you decide that you're not going to base
it on historical evidence, that's okay. I mean, it's fine, you can do that. Then you're an apologist,
or an evangelist, or something else, but you're not a historian. And if you don't want to be a
historian, it's fine. But my objection is people who claim to do history, who refuse to look at
historical evidence, and the absence of historical evidence. And so that's, that's my view. So I know
lots and lots of Christians who absolutely think that the Exodus could not have happened the way
it's described. It just cannot have happened. And they're just, you know, they're being historians
at that point. They still believe, you know, they still believe in Christ, and they still believe
in God. It's just, it's a story. If you claim to claim it's historical, you need to mount some
evidence for it. And good luck with that. There are some things that show that something happened.
There are clear that I'll talk about in my course. You know, it is weird that the name Moses is not
a Hebrew name. It's not Hebrew. It's not Israelite. It's an Egyptian name. It's Egyptian. So that's
weird. How do you account for that? So there are things you've got to figure out. But the idea
that it's happened as described is completely implausible, in my opinion. Thank you so much,
Dr. Airman. I really appreciate your time. I hope people will go sign up for the course,
Finding Moses. It's down in the description. Hope to see you there. Thanks.
