Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Jason, we've talked about Esau earlier, Jacob wrestling and such, and you said, you know,
there's some more about Esau that's kind of not talked about, obviously, in the canon,
and most people would never even know this type of information.
Esau's a hairy fighting warrior.
He's kind of like the gym rat who doesn't shave, you know?
Right, right.
Yeah, he's completely hairy.
He's like your classic wild man, which pops up repeatedly in ancient mythology, and it
was sort of a way that people who considered themselves civilized, you know, who lived
in cities, would view people who lived, you know, a nomadic lifestyle, these hunter-gatherers
and stuff, because, you know, some of these stories began at the dawn of civilization.
You know, people first discovered, you know, or first invented agriculture, and, you know,
they began doing this, and you have sort of this conflict between your farmers and your
people who live a more nomadic lifestyle, and also your people who are like shepherds,
because you're all trying to use the same land, you know, you have people trying to
hunt on your land, and of course they would try to hunt your goats, because, you know,
goats are easy targets, especially when they're in a pen, and then you have people who are
trying to raise crops, but then this shepherd, his goats are coming in and eating all my
cabbage, and so your city dwellers and your shepherds and your nomads, they're all, you
know, they're all getting into it, you know, and they all kind of demonize each other in
their midst, and you actually see this throughout the Old Testament.
Every time there's a scene where there's a farmer and a shepherd, the shepherd is the
good guy, and the farmer is evil, just think about Cain and Abel, you know, Cain's over
here and he's growing all these crops, Abel has all these sheep, Abel's a good guy, Cain
goes and wax him with a rock, you know, it's always like that throughout the Old Testament.
Now, when you see some of these nomadic people, sometimes in various cultures, they depict
them as being basically like half animal, they're like, oh yeah, he doesn't just like
roam around and not live in a city, this dude, he's actually covered in hair like an animal,
and Esau was like that, the way that Jacob tricked their father was to actually cover
himself in animal skins, you know, and so he's like, he's like literally wearing pelts
on his arm, and his blind father touches him, okay, yeah, well, you don't sound like Esau,
but Jacob isn't wooly like this, you know, so, right, he's like, oh yeah, you don't
smell like a dirty goat.
So yeah, so that Esau, he's supposed to be this wild man, he's completely covered
in fur, okay, he's not really human, he's Sasquatch, but he's kind of a badass, okay,
he's like in tune with nature, very similar to Inkydo, he's in tune with nature, he can kind of
commune with the animals, he's like more in tune with them, you know, he can go and spend weeks
just out in the wilderness with nothing but like a stone knife, and he'll be fine, okay,
but now we have this weird scene where Jacob is sitting there and he's cooking this lentil stew
and Esau comes up and he's exhausted, he's on the brink of death, and he's like, look,
I need some food, you know, you know, it's like the old gauntlet video game, you know,
Harry Warrior needs food badly, and that's what he's like, I'm about to die, and he's like,
give me some food, and Jacob's like, no man, I cooked this, and he's like, look, if I don't have
food, I'm going to die, and Jacob's like, okay, I'll give you a bowl of soup, if you give me
your inheritance, and he's like, well, what good would my inheritance be if I don't survive?
And so he trades away his right to rule Israel in exchange for a bowl of soup,
and lentil soup, I mean, come on, that's like the worst soup, it's literally the worst soup,
okay, so he trades away his right to rule an entire kingdom for a bowl of soup.
Now, why is he so desperate in that scene, he's like a wild man, he lives in the wilderness,
all of a sudden, he goes for a walk, and he comes back, and if he doesn't get a bowl of soup,
he's going to die, it doesn't make any sense. Well, there's this book called The Book of Jasher,
and that's J-A-S-H-E-R. Now, it has sort of a questionable history, no one's quite sure exactly
how old the Book of Jasher is, it's referenced in the Old Testament, but scholars argue that
the Book of Jasher, as we have it today, is a much newer book. However, many scholars also argue
that many of the stories contained in the Book of Jasher do come from an older time period,
they're gathering up some of these older stories, and they collected them into the Book of Jasher,
just at a later date. So the book itself is newer, but the stories do come from an older time period.
And in the Book of Jasher, we find this curious tale where, just before that whole scene with
Jacob and Esau transpires, Esau, he's going out and he's hunting, and as he's hunting, he comes
across this hunting party with the Babylonian king Nimrod and some of his warriors. Now,
you may be familiar with the name, it's been used as an insult to mean an idiot for decades,
but Nimrod is a specific character from Babylonian mythology and he appears in the Bible. And what
this guy is, he's a semi-divine figure, it seems, he's sort of mentioned alongside like the
the heroes of old, the men of renown, these sort of like demigod figures, like Hercules,
and he is this sort of this Babylonian king and this hunter figure. And we actually have myths
that when Abraham was born, there was this sort of nativity scene similar to what we see with
Jesus or Zarathustra, where there's like this bright light in the sky and these these oracles,
they tell Nimrod, they're like, look, there's this new guy who's going to come along and rule
this great nation. And then Nimrod gets all paranoid, he's like, I'm going to get rid of it.
So he sends out his people, y'all start getting all these babies, y'all start chopping them up,
you know, or throwing them in the water or whatever. Go kill all the infants, okay. We see this story
recycled again for Moses. And this goes all the way back to King Sargon, okay. This is a story
that comes from him. But Nimrod, King Nimrod, he goes and he does this and an angel, I think
Michael takes Abraham and brings him into a cave. And so he goes into this cave as an infant, and
then he comes out like, I think like six days later, and he's an adult, okay. So he just, you
know, some kind of divine power. He ages now, all of a sudden he's an adult and he has survived the
slaughter of the infants due to this, you know, divine intervention. And he eventually, you know,
grows to adult, or, you know, grows to become like the father of the nation, basically just by
having kids who eventually inherit Israel. And so Nimrod's, his fears are sort of unfounded
concerning this particular person. But later on, he encounters Esau. And so Nimrod and his buddies,
they're out hunting. They're hunting all kinds of dangerous animals. And they come across Esau.
Esau is another great hunter. And they get into this fight. And so we have Nimrod, who is at this
point, like five or 600 years old, you know, he's this, this like demigods figure, you know, he's
like, at least 50% divine, you know, and he's out here, he's killing these animals and stuff,
because that's what he does. He's a great hunter. He encounters Esau. And he and his, his hunting
buddies, they get in a fight with Esau. Almost like to say, who's the better hunter, the great
Babylonian hunter, or the great Edomite hunter? And Esau just kills them all. It's this horrible
battle. It's his long, you know, drawn out thing. And Esau manages to kill Nimrod, you know, who is,
he's like a, I mean, he's basically like a Hercules, you know. And but Esau manages to kill Nimrod,
along with his buddies. And after he does this, he's wounded, and he's exhausted from this long
fight that, you know, may have been drawn out, may have taken hours or days even. And so he's
exhausted. And this is when he stumbles into camp in desperate need of food, and is willing to trade
away his entire inheritance, just for a bowl of lentil stew. So we're kind of stuck without the
context and the biblical narrative. That's right. Right. Jashah would from a Hebrew standpoint or
Israel standpoint, of course, they would have their warrior win, you know, right, right. Yeah,
that's interesting. Yeah. And so it may be, here's this weird little story in Genesis, let's expand
upon that. Or they may be preserving an older tradition. And Genesis just didn't include all
of it. There are other other examples of this, like in Genesis six, where it talks about, you know,
at this time, you know, these angels came down, and they lay with human women and that created
this race of giants, the Nephilim. And then it just moves on. That's why this whole human nature
argument, it makes no sense why giants appear. You see what I'm saying? Right. It's like, oh, well,
you know, if, if some people in Israel have sex with women, then we have these giants that are
said to be like 5,000 feet tall. Any knock yet. What? Like, if you didn't go that extreme, right,
you still end up with giants and the earth has to be purged. It all has to be deleted with a flood.
What? Because Israelites had sex? I thought he told them to be fruitful and multiply. Right.
And he doesn't say be fruitful, multiply only with the righteous or only with a certain, like,
it doesn't give you any context. Right. It just like, be like bunnies and fill the world. Right.
You're human. They're human. You guys are all mortal now. Right. Go ahead and be with each other.
No, it doesn't give you this, like, don't be with this person. Yeah. Be with this person. Well,
I think the big clue in Genesis six is when it says these sons of God had sex with humans.
I think that may be a clue. Yeah, I think so. But there's people who want to read into that because
you can find passages that like in Exodus, I think eight, there's a place where Moses is referenced
in Elohim. There's places where they want to go see there's a guy and he's referenced as this or
sons of God and it references Israel or people or and so they want to take that interpret it. Right.
But see, run into problems. Well, there's a problem with the whole thing about Moses and saying, oh,
well, look, you know, we're calling him maybe like one of these Elohim, but he's just a man.
We have to remember that when Moses went and talked to Yahweh, his entire visage was completely
transformed and he had to then like cover his face so it didn't harm people. So he's like,
so divine, which is why Moses is not just a man. I mean, it's basically telling us that Moses,
he has been transformed and we actually see in Enoch, same thing that Moses becomes an angel.
You know, Enoch and Moses, there's a tradition that none of those three guys actually died. I
know they all just were taken up. Right. At the end of Deuteronomy, Moses, he just kind of,
the same way he does on Sinai, he goes up to the top of the mountain to commune with Yahweh and
then he's never seen it again. They think he died. There's no reference. He died. We know he died.
So yeah, yeah. Interesting. But yeah. And so yeah, we have this this weird little thing. So it may
just be trying to explain this weird thing or it may be that Genesis was aware of this,
this larger story and just left it out. And now there's an interesting little tidbit about Nimrod.
So everyone's familiar with the word. You know, it's like, oh, you know, he did something stupid.
Look at that Nimrod. There's a reason why people use Nimrod to mean idiot. It nowhere in the myth
is Nimrod an idiot. He's like this great intelligent king who's a good hunter. But what happened was
back in, I believe it was in the 60s, in one of the Warner Brothers cartoons, Elmer Fudd
is hunting Bugs Bunny. And of course, he's a bumbling idiot. And when he's trying to kill Bugs
Bunny, Bugs Bunny calls him a regular Nimrod. He's not saying he's stupid. He is sarcastically
calling him a good hunter. Like if someone did something stupid and you're like, oh, yeah, he's
a regular Einstein, you know, that's what he's saying. He's like, oh, yeah, look, he's a brilliant
hunter. He can't even kill a rabbit with a shotgun. But no one got the reference. And so they thought
that when Bugs Bunny was sarcastically calling him a great hunter, that the they thought that he
meant an idiot. And so when he said Nimrod, they misunderstood the meaning. And so everyone started
using the word Nimrod to mean moron instead of great hunter. And it's stuck around ever since.
