Ladies and gentlemen, Matt De La Hunte joins me, Derek Lambert. Here on MythVision Podcast,
we're going to talk about atheism, deism, deism, deism, you name it, poltergeist, crypto phasms.
Thanks to Steven Nelson for the slides. I really appreciate it. Make sure you guys hit the like
button, subscribe to the channel, hit the bell so you're notified every time MythVision drops a
video, and join the Patreon. I've got hundreds of videos that have not been released to YouTube
that are only on Patreon. So I hope you guys join me. It's down in the description. Let's get into
Matt De La Hunte.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert. You guys see the guests that
I have. You see the caliber I'm bringing to the table. It's Matt De La Hunte. How are you, my
brother? I'm doing really well. How are you? Doing good, man. I figure I'd give you a break
away from the atheist experience, bashing Christians in the head and come hang out with
another atheist for a moment. And let me learn from you and hear how you might respond to some
ideas and really kick it with you on the show. There's some hot stuff that's been going on lately.
Cameron from Capt. Christianity is calling apologia out.
And apologized.
Yes. And then had a recent video today. You might want to go check out. I'm not so sure
how strong that apology was. It's complicated.
It was weak. I cut Cameron off after he dishonestly represented me.
So...
Yeah. There's a video that was put out yesterday pertaining to you and apologia from Mike
Lacona and Gary Habermas. I believe. Did you see that one yet?
No, I didn't watch it. But I jumped in the last couple of minutes because people kept sending
me a link and I was like, well, you guys could have just invited me here to talk rather than
talk with me instead of about me. But I don't expect any better. And Mike Lacona and I debated
the resurrection and he showed up with stories about Ouija boards and moving trash can to the
resurrection. And then evidently, the two of them were convinced I was a mythicist.
So they mentioned that during their review of... It's like they keep demonstrating they don't
have a clue what I'm talking about, what my position is, anything.
Wow. Yeah. I didn't get that far into the video. They were just picking at who were witnesses.
And they really focused on apologia when I saw it. I didn't get to the part where they deal with
you, I guess, or try to at least. So today, I figure we'd go into some interesting conversation
and it'd be more than one topic. Of course, while I have you, I might as well touch on
different things and I have some slides I'm going to show you. But I guess it'd be best to introduce
it with a clip that you had with Shannon Q. And kind of hear what you had to say there because
in that video, you're touching on some of the subject matter that we're going to be talking
about with poltergeist and ghost and very strange phenomena that people are willing to believe,
even if you're not a Christian, there are people who still believe in these experiences and these
things that they have. Are you both materialists? This is like a quick little question, I guess.
I'm just curious to know what both of you would think about this. Are you both materialists?
Philosophically, no. Philosophically, no. No, I'm a methodological naturalist,
not a philosophical naturalist or philosophical materialist. I would not go to the extent of
asserting that the material world is all that exists. It's just all that I'm aware of.
Okay. So you wouldn't require a materialistic explanation for God's existence, then?
No. Well, see, materialistic explanations are all that I can accept until somebody demonstrates
a non-material explanation and shows that it is in fact viable and correct. I don't know how
anybody would do that, as far as I can tell, has never been done. So I'm not requiring a
materialistic explanation for God. I'm requiring a sound explanation for God. And I don't think
that there are any sound explanations that appeal to the supernatural. Okay. So it just has to be
like a good argument, basically, more so than like being able to empirically or epistemologically
demonstrated? No, it needs to be epistemologically sound. There needs to be some demonstration.
You can't just come up with an abstract convoluted argument. There needs to be some
evidence. Okay. Would you agree that either some God exists or no gods exist?
Yeah. Or you cannot know, of course, which is where I come in.
Why is it that I can ask a simple straightforward question, which you should agree with and you
seem to, and then you went on to something that's completely irrelevant? I said that either some
gods exist or no God exists. And you wanted to add what, whether or not we know about it.
That's irrelevant. Either, either I've got. Yeah. No, I'm sorry. No, I'm sorry.
Stop interrupting. Either I've got $50 in my wallet or I don't. Whether you know about it or not is
irrelevant. I think he was thinking about belief positions. So either some gods exist or no gods
exist. Right? Yeah, sure. Yeah. Now, if no gods exist, we're done. Correct. We don't need to spend
any more time on this. If we were, I mean, obviously we'd have to find a way to demonstrate that. But
if no gods exist, then any arguments for gods must be fallacious, even if we don't know.
Sorry. Could you repeat that, please? If no God exists, then any argument for a God
must be fallacious, even though we are not necessarily aware of that.
Oh, well, of course. Yeah. I mean, if God doesn't exist, then you wouldn't be able to argue that
God exists in a way that wouldn't be fallacious. Yeah. Sure. So we must be talking in order to have
any sort of discussion about this, we must be talking about the proposition that some God exists.
Now, if some God exists, but that God is completely impervious to detection in the material world
at all, like there's no way this God does not interact with the material world. There's nothing
detectable within the material world about it. That God's existence and non-existence,
there is no way to distinguish between those two cases for us. Correct? Okay. So I want to pause
there. And the reason, and look, that's all I had from you on that. Okay. I want to have you
comment, of course, because this sets the groundwork for the discussion. I think that's going to be
great. We're not just going to be talking about God's. We're not going to be talking about deities
or a deity. We're not talking about just theism and deism, but we've been doing an interesting
little thing with Anthony Magnobosco. Yesterday, we had Shannon Kewan, and she had fun with this.
And we were talking about poltergeist, ghost, weird, strange spirit phenomena, you know,
that people believe in. And so I figure why not bring on Matt and let's have a good conversation
delving into this topic. And so before we get started, because you deal with Christians all
the time, Matt, and I can tell oftentimes your patience is flustered. I mean, you're like,
dude, did you not hear what I just said? Like, I'm not trying to trick you. And I think Christians
think you're trying to trick them into a corner, like this guy right here, for example, it felt like
he didn't listen to you. And he thought you were trying to trick him by saying,
then no God exists. If no God exists, then there's not really going to be an argument
that's going to work. Well, hold on, repeat that again. Don't make me say that no God exists.
So I wanted to ask you, correct me if I mess this up, because I don't have an exact quote from you,
but I know theists are very critical of various statements you've made to the effect that you
don't know what evidence would convince you of the existence of God. I think the critique
that gets leveled at you for this is that it's somehow hypocritical because you affirm that
you don't believe in God because of a lack of evidence. Yet you're seemingly not open, they say,
to any evidence. Could you respond to this and maybe explain your position to people who might not
understand exactly what you mean? Because they will say, as you know, Matt, you are closed off,
you're not even willing to put out a potential explanation of what maybe could convince you
or something. You know what I mean? Well, I'm sorry that their claim can't be justified,
but that's not my problem. I'm not close to it. What it is is, so this actual call that you picked,
it's like, oh, are you guys materialists? And I've had to go through and explain that. Well,
would you only accept material evidence for God? No, I would accept any evidence for God provided
you demonstrated the efficacy of that evidence. I don't see any way to demonstrate the truth of
anything supernatural. I've gone over this many, many times. People say, ooh, X is supernatural.
I don't believe in anything supernatural. I don't know how you could show that something
was supernatural. But as soon as somebody demonstrates that there is a supernatural realm,
that they can reliably produce evidence for it, then the supernatural would join the natural
in accepted evidence within sound methodology. It's not me that's saying, I won't accept the
supernatural. It's saying, I won't accept the supernatural until you demonstrate that it's real,
that it's a part of this. And so, oh, you're closed, Matt, because you won't accept, well,
you're right. I won't accept that your storybook told you and that that's enough. I won't accept,
as was the case when Mike Lacona and I debated the resurrection. This guy showed up to a debate
about whether or not it was reasonable to accept the resurrection, whether or not there was sufficient
evidence for the resurrection. And he presented two arguments. The first one was the facts about
reality strongly suggest that reality has a supernatural component. And his second one was
historical facts strongly suggest that the resurrection occurred. Now, that's two completely
different arguments. And only one of them is relevant, because we weren't talking about whether,
we weren't talking about how a resurrection occurred. We were talking about whether a
resurrection occurred. And so he spent most of his time trying to argue that, oh, well, we've got
reports of trash can lids moving and Ouija boards flying around and all these things that must be
supernatural. And I'm like, wow, you are so absolutely wrong. Reports of a trash can moving
don't mean that there's something supernatural. Just because you don't have an explanation doesn't
mean that there's something supernatural. But set all that aside, because the debate was, did this
happen? Right? How did this happen? And so they're like, oh, well, you're just close to it. No,
I'm not going to accept that somebody is divine, supernatural, raised from the dead,
just based on stories. That's ridiculous. You need more evidence in that. And by the way,
if in fact, your God is real, then your God should easily have been able to understand this
problem, even though you can't, and provide the evidence that we're looking for. I'm not closed
to evidence. I'm closed to bad evidence. And we have justifiable reasons with other sources
to know exaggerations take place and that this happens often. So to act like, and I don't mean
people die and rise often, I'm saying claims, outrageous claims by many people, many teachers,
many messianic figures, if you will, throughout history. What makes this one special? Of course,
you know, Christians always like to make that. But how come they don't allow the other to be
true? Of course, they have that, we're right, they're wrong mentality. So I figured that question
to ask you for the record, just play with me here, Matt. I know I'm not trying to, you know,
paint you down, but for anyone who's thinking he's closed off, could you hypothetically,
just hypothetically, give an example of something that might be like, whoa, that might
make me think, let me consider researching or looking deeper into this. Could there be an
example? A loved one coming back from the dead or? Sure, yeah. There's lots of things that would
make me go, wow, I wonder what the explanation for that is. I don't see a naturalistic explanation.
The problem is, no matter how many things might make me think that, we have no way to test for
the supernatural. We have no mechanism to investigate the supernatural. And so until there is some
demonstration that, hey, this is beyond nature, and we've identified it, then it's all just stuck
in the I don't know category. But the problem is, is that all these examples, and, you know,
Lacona did this during the debate, and other people have too. Oh, what if there was writing on the
on the moon, you know, it said, I am the Lord thy God, and it said it in all these different
languages that everybody could read. Well, you know what, that shit never happens.
That's exactly what I said. I said that yesterday to Shannon, because I played an example out in
my head. I said, look, if this happened, I'd have to beg the question, is something going on?
Like my grandfather died three years ago, I saw him buried. If he came back and said, look,
all my decomposition was reversed, I'm back, God did it, and was able to prove with thumb,
like, I know it's you. I would have some serious, like, I'd be like, look, man, there's something
possibly going on here. But I looked at Shannon and said, when does that happen? And she's like,
it doesn't happen. So we can talk like, well, do we are we open minded that? Yeah, you're open
minded. You just said on record. However, give me a real example, not in a book 2000 years ago,
by someone who claimed claiming to be eyewitness, they say test Matt or Paul was, he saw the risen
Christ. Yeah, but that even in Paul's writing, it's like, he didn't know Jesus on earth. And how
do we know he didn't just trip on mushrooms or have a real hallucination apart from taking any
substance and see the Lord? So how do we know he even had the experience that he's purported to have
had? Good point. And and by the way, this stuff is is is only a problem. If there is in fact a
God behind all this, this God should absolutely understand all of the problems that I'm identifying
and that other people are identifying. And it would there's no way an intelligent, wise governor of
the universe would proclaim its message through inspiration of a handful of people in languages
that are going to die out and change and provide nothing else to future generations other than
these stories. Because any God that's even half as smart as I am, should be able to identify that,
wow, just leaving a bunch of stories without anything to back it up. That's not going to be
very convincing to people. And not only is it not going to be convincing, it shouldn't be
convincing. The people who are buying it have failed a gullibility test. And so there's actually
the you know, the talk about Pascal's wager, there were versions of the atheist wager, which is
maybe this is all a test to see who's gullible or not. And the people who aren't gullible enough to
to adopt a position that they don't have good evidence for. Those are the ones that get to
go to the special afterlife. I don't know. It's not particularly fun that it's it's it's bullshit
either way. And it's it's particularly mean because if there's a God that created me and
gave me a brain that tells me how the universe works, and then failed to provide sufficient
evidence for the most important thing ever, which is hey, what much one do to be saved and what's
going to happen to me in an afterlife. And yet rewards the people who just okay, yep, my grandma
told me and my pastor told me so I'm just gonna believe it. I don't want anything to do with
him anyway. He's either grossly immoral or dumber than a sack of hammers.
Yeah, people I think are driven by emotion. And there's already the bias there. So it's like,
I know guys who in the past, who's women, for example, this is irrelevant to deity, but I think
it plays in the same vein. Their their women are cheating on them. They don't want to know. They're
like, I can't accept that they don't want to know the truth, but they kind of do. But they'd rather
be comfortable than to lead down that path. And, you know, I talked to him like, look, dude,
what do you want to do about it? And they act like it's a problem. See, if it wasn't a problem
to them, then, you know, this would not even be in a discussion. But that idea of just experiencing
it and having a connection, sometimes people are dumber than a box of rocks. Like you said,
they know, or they have the hunch, but they can't let go. They have an emotional attachment to
something. And I see that happen with Christianity all the time. Yeah, you can present it with facts
all day, Matt. And I just don't see them being willing to take that leaps. At some point, a
switch goes off and they're willing. But I know that I was afraid. I must admit, I was scared.
And I know that you have a past as a Christian as well. I was scared at first, like, what am I
letting go of? I'm entering the unknown. I didn't know what the hell was on the other side. And now
I'm like, wow, there's a much better world out there than I thought. Yeah. Yeah, it's, religions
prey on fear and where they don't have a real fear to address something like a fear of dying or a
fear of loneliness. They make things up. And once upon a time, I remember someone saying that,
you know, religions convince you you're poisoned and then offer you the antidote. But that's not
true. Because what's what's really happening is they're convincing you that you're poisoned when
you're not, and they're offering you the homeopathic remedy, because even the remedy isn't going to do
what, you know, they're supposed to do. Good point. Good point. It's like, oh, let me throw you
overboard and then toss you a lifesaver. That's the way they look at Jesus. You know, God created
the entire world, knowing what was going to happen. And, you know, when sin was brought into the world,
that's essentially us being thrown overboard. And now there's a God sitting there with a life
preserver. Actually, no, there's a guy on the edge of the boat with a life preserver that says,
this is from God. If you just say you love God, I'll toss you this life preserver type of thing.
And they're the ones who told you that you're sick or you're going to, you're on a destructive path.
I had this with Ray Comfort. I was going to say, like, I don't feel like I'm drowning. But Ray
Comfort told the story about, you know, hey, if your house was on fire and your neighbor came over
to tell you that your house is on fire, then that would be a really kind thing. And that's all that
Christians are doing. They know that your house is on fire and they're telling you. And for me,
it would be like a neighbor that kept coming over at two in the morning to wake me up to tell me my
house is on fire. And then we go look, and we don't find any fire, and we don't go back to sleep.
And then we go back, it wakes me up the next night doing this over and over and over again
for centuries. And there's never any fire.
Like you got to say, dude, are you schizophrenic? Like what's going on? Is there mental health issues?
Obviously, no. They're just a horrible, it's a horrible belief system that obviously causes
them to think this way about humanity. I hate that. I want to try and obviously break those
walls down as do you. You know Steve McCrae. I know of him and I believe we've interacted once
or twice. I've had him blocked for years. Yeah, I just, there's, he's produced hours and hours of
content criticizing you and arn raw over this whole definition of atheism issue. And I've been
bringing him up on the show a lot recently. So I really hope I don't end up on a shit list because
I honestly haven't really taken the time to understand his side of the issue. But I have
read Richard Carrier's summary of his discussion with him and Carrier's perspective appears to be
pretty reasonable to me. Could you explain to me, maybe to the audience as well in detail how this
whole conflict started and tell us where you stand on this today? I have no idea. I legitimately,
I don't listen to anything that Steve says anymore. Steve has been hung up on this notion that
everybody's agnostic and that, you know, oh, I don't even know what his position is anymore
or what he's upset about because I stopped listening to him years ago. He's like a dog
with a bone. I pointed out a long time ago, I don't care what label somebody use. Right. Now,
by and large, when people in the atheist community say atheist, they mean someone who
does not believe in a God. They're not saying this is someone who affirms there is no God,
which is a subset of that. And so I think they both apply. Now, I'm not a fond of lack fiest as a
description, but non theist and atheist are synonymous for me when I'm talking about these
things. And I'll make clarifications between them to talk about hard atheism and soft atheism,
which is the difference between saying, I'm convinced there is no God, that would be hard or
strong atheism. And then I'm not convinced that there is a God, which would be weak or soft atheism.
But they're both atheism. And so one of the problems is that if belief is a subset of knowledge,
sorry, wow, knowledge is a subset of belief. So here's a set of things I believe in some subset
of those things I know. And so people want to say that, ah, you could be an agnostic theist
which is someone who believes there's a God but doesn't know, but you couldn't be an agnostic
atheist. And they're right. You could not be an agnostic weak atheist because you don't have a
positive belief. You could be an agnostic strong atheist in the sense that I believe there are no
gods, but I don't claim to know. That's where I actually rest personally. I believe there aren't
any gods, not because I have omniscience or I know with certainty. No, I believe there aren't
because I've like every time I've gone to try and examine this thing, the definition of God has to
somehow try to back up and follow the scientific evidence. Oh, well, God was part of the evolutionary
process. Oh, well, I don't have to be you don't have to be omniscient. I believe I actively believe
there is not a dead human body in the back of my truck. I actively believe that now now it's possible
that between coming inside and coming on the podcast that somebody went out broke in my truck
and stuck a dead body in the bed of the truck and I just don't know it. But and I haven't even looked
in the bed of my truck in ages. And yet I actively believe there is not a dead body in my trunk
because every time I've gone out to look at it when a trunk bed, every time I've gone out to
investigate it, nobody, nobody, nobody. And so every time somebody comes up and says, Hey, man,
there's a body in the back of your truck. No, there's not. I don't even have to go look anymore.
Stop wasting my time. Well, you you seem really closed off. No, I'm not closed off to evidence.
You have no new evidence. There's nothing new in the thousands of years that we've been dealing
with this. You keep coming and saying my house is on fire. You keep saying there's a body in my
trunk. And I just keep saying no, there's not or you have to come with something to demonstrate
that this is true. How would you do that? Well, it'd be really easy. Let's go out, lower the tailgate,
look inside because my bed's covered. If there was a body there, we'd see it. We'd know it. We'd be
able to investigate it. And yet, curiously, every time we go look, nothing, just like the fire.
This goes right into the entire conversation on the Poltergeist, if you will. So I will be sharing
my screen here and showing you slide one, which goes in, I'm just going to read here for a second.
In order to recontextualize the discussion about the belief in God, we can reframe the discussion
in terms of a belief in ghosts. And this is just an example. We do this together. It's kind of fun.
Let's say there are two types of ghosts. One is analogous to the theistic God and the other is
analogous to the theistic God. A Poltergeist is like the theistic God of the Bible, a detectable
manifest entity that causes supernatural events. So evidence of the existence of the Poltergeist
is expected if one indeed exists. For example, I guess we could give before I go into the cryptophasm,
which is the ghost that doesn't manifest itself in the physical world, which is compared to the
deist God. So there's no evidence of the existence of a cryptophasm is not necessarily
expected since, by definition, it's undetectable, like deism. As far as the Poltergeist goes,
and I've asked this of John Loftus with his book, if you will, A Case Against Miracles,
a theistic God that isn't hidden, there shouldn't be a hidden God. He appears, according to the
stories, over and over to give examples of things that I think today, if we observed a lot of this
stuff, we would have some serious questions. I mean, obviously, it's so fictional sounding.
You got the sun standing still. I mean, come on, guys. Like, if that happened, we'd have good reason
to say, you know what, there's probably a Poltergeist. We can detect somehow in the physical world
something that doesn't usually happen. Doesn't mean we won't try to rule out a physical explanation,
a natural explanation in some sense. But if there was a way in which the book tries to describe
these things, would you, would you, do you see an interesting, I guess, comparison here with the
Poltergeist and the cryptophasm between deism and theism? Could you see anything interesting with
that? Well, so the problem with the lower half of this where they have hidden entities is that you
have a name. You have cryptophasm, and you have properties. And so you've named and given something
properties while also claiming that it's undetectable, which means you're claiming to detect the
undetectable. You are knowing properties about the unknowable. And that's the same thing for the
deistic God, which is, you know, I'm opposed to religious gods. But when people come up and say,
well, I'm a deist, I'm not a theist, I don't, I believe in a God that doesn't
interact with the world in any detectable way. And I'm like, so you're detecting the undetectable.
I mean, that's, that's beyond silly. I mean, of all the things that, you know, people could laugh
at Mormonism or Scientology or Christianity or Islam. Oh, my gosh, these people, they believe
such ridiculous things. But not me. I'm a deist. Well, I think what you're, what deists believe
is even more ridiculous. And the people who are arguing on behalf of a cryptophasm,
who decided to name the thing that doesn't exist. Interesting. Oh, I can't detect it in any case.
When it comes to something like a poltergeist and gods, yeah, I agree that the way most gods,
the Abrahamic God, and others have been presented, they should be detectable. They do interact with
reality in a detectable way, in the same way that poltergeist would. And yet somehow we can't
confirm either of them. So yeah, to the extent that there's something there, it's on the top
half of the line, on the bottom half of the line, that which does not manifest in any detectable way
is absolutely, completely indistinguishable from something that does not exist in any way.
And you can't tell the difference. And so what they're doing is they're saying,
here's non-existence. And I want to cordon off a portion of that which does not exist and claim
that it exists, but it's undetectable. Interesting. Labeling something that I think,
some of these things that they're giving these labels to probably come from some type of hyperactive
agency or something within our minds or voices we hear, who knows what it is, but there's a natural
explanation for why we have those things. Maybe. I think. I mean, that's just my point.
Actions for humans being wrong. That doesn't mean that we can look at any given claim about a god
or a poltergeist or anything else and say, that's bull and we can debunk it and there must be a
natural explanation. That is philosophical naturalism, that the natural world is all that exists. It's
a position I have rejected because that is a closed mind. That is saying nothing but the
natural world exists. And I'm saying, I don't know if anything more than the natural world exists,
but the natural world is what I can interact with and what I can see and test and present evidence
for. If there's something beyond the natural world, we would need good evidence for it, not just
stories. And when you watch, like I can't stand to watch them, but if you watch any of the Ghost Hunter
shows, they're going out there and they've got, they've got their gadgets. This is actually not
a gadget from Ghost Hunter. This is my Zoom H6, but it looks like something that you can, you know,
gadget with and they're running around. It reminds me like the Scientologists with their
e-meters, the couple of tin cans and, you know, all this other stuff. Oh, can you hear that? Can
you hear that noise in the static, the electronic voice phenomenon? And it's all just while there
may be cool things about it that we might discover something, we could, we could discover something
probably more likely discover something about humans ability to find patterns in static.
Then the notion that there is a pattern in the static, that's to me more interesting. The fact
that humans, you know, we can, I can take acid and look at a wood grain and have it turn into a
strawberry and it flies off and does a lap around my head. And yet there are people who have experiences
like that either on drugs or off drugs, but think that those are real. When I, when I took drugs and
saw the super strawberry, I mentioned this with, when I was talking with Jordan Peterson. When I
saw super strawberry, I didn't immediately reach the conclusion that super strawberry was real and
from a realm of strawberry people who had an important message for me and that the only way
for me to get that message was for me to get high as a kite and sit there and wait for the
strawberries to show up. No, I just went, oh, that's cool. I've done lots of drugs myself too
and not to brag about it. I mean, I'm glad I am where I am now and I learned what I learned,
but I got to see things and I know they're chemically induced, but I also know for the
people who go, I didn't do drugs. That's the first thing they say to me and I go,
you do know your brain is full of these chemicals, right? Like you do know that you have the potential
by yourself without taking acid or taking these mushrooms or potentially doing too much
meth and ended up in a psychosis. You know, you can experience these things or see things. And
I know people with mental health problems that don't do any of that stuff that have said they've
had conversations with Jesus and heard voices back. I've heard your show. People call in and go,
what do I do with these voices? And you're like, well, look, try the medicine, you know,
like go to the doctor, tell me if those voices disappear when you're off your medicine or if
they're on, you know. It's something we as humans tend to overlook and that's because
by and large, most of us think we're normal. Most of us think, ah, we're not like those people,
whatever the category is. And so if you imagine any lined up 100 people and five of them are
dripping balls on whatever and five of them have some sort of mental, a strong mental illness that
is producing hallucinations that are roughly on par. Then you look at the other 90 and people
want to say, oh, all of these people are normal. So any experience they have is clearly not in one of
those other two categories. But wouldn't it make more sense if there was a spectrum where different
brains are more adept at that sort of thing, just like there are people who have better imaginations
or better artistic skill or who can do the lucid dreaming stuff. I can't lucid dream. I don't even
remember my dreams. I know that I have them because I've been, you know, I've seen REM and I've woken
up from them on rare occasions. But it just seems more likely that rather than saying 90% of people
are normal and then there's these exceptions of people who are either high or have some sort of
problem with their brain, maybe we're on a spectrum. And so that deja vu sensation or that weird
hallucination that you saw or when you saw something out of the corner of your eye and you
immediately looked at it and said, oh, there's nothing there. But if you had kept looking straight
and just left it out of the corner of your eye, maybe your brain would have invented a whole story
about it. We like to think that there's nothing wrong with this. And the truth is,
our brains are horribly broken. We are pattern recognition machines and we're going to get it
wrong and we're only punished for getting it wrong in one direction. If the bushes move and you
think there's a monster and you run away from it, you continue to live whether there was a monster
or not. But if you think there's not a monster and you go into the bushes and there's a monster,
you die. Good point. And I think that goes into hyperactive agency. It's better to assume agencies
there even if it isn't. And that's why I think we're prone to believe in things that aren't there
rather than being skeptical. We're kind of born with that imposition. Would you agree
that that's something we're kind of nationally prone to? We know, but I mean, the thing I was
describing is often described as like type one and type two errors where one's a false positive,
one's a false negative. And the impact for that is completely different. But yeah, you can't have
a brain that is really primed for pattern recognition that can be wrong and not have it happen.
It's just going to be the case that we're going to make those mistakes. The key is to understand
sometimes my brain is going to get something wrong. Sometimes what I think I see isn't what's
actually there. And that's why when some people say, oh, you won't believe anything anybody says.
That's not true. If somebody came to me and said, hey, last night I was abducted by aliens, my first
thought isn't this is a big, fat liar. My first thought is I believe that this person is honestly
trying to convey something that happened to them. I don't believe the explanation that they're giving.
I don't believe that aliens actually abducted them. But I wonder what could have happened to them
and what their reasoning is to reach that conclusion. Because weird stuff happens all the time.
The biggest difference between a more rigid skeptic like myself and some of the people call
the show is that when weird things happen to me, I go, wow, that was weird. I don't know what it was.
Can I investigate it? And if yes, then I'll take a look. And if no, then it's like, well,
that was a weird, I just dismiss it. Because I know it's a waste of time for me to start
investigating something that can't be investigated. So the crypto plasm or whatever it was.
Yeah, crypto phasm, I think it is. Yeah, no, that's that's interesting. I actually,
that's what I'm starting to do is, I don't know, where would you label me if I say that I am trying
to, and I'm doing this on purpose, trying to look for natural explanations on purpose. I mean, I am
I am trying to do that because how my I always solve things was supernatural. For example,
I just interviewed Jesus from Australia, by the way, a guy who claims to be Jesus and
really, really kind of the guy, of course, I let him, you know, say what he thinks and why and
go into this crazy story about how he remembers 2000 years, all this stuff. Then I followed. Then
I interviewed someone who was a follower of his who got shunned. The guy told me that when I said,
yeah, well, what about voices? Because this guy, AJ, who claims to be Jesus says,
we asked him where Joseph Smith was in the rings of hell, because there's no burning place in his
world. There's levels. And after you die, you still raise in levels, right? So I said,
where's Joseph Smith? And he looked to the side and he goes, he said, I don't know, let me, let me,
let me ask. He turned his head and then he came right back. He goes, he's in the third ring of
hell. And I go, hold on, did you just ask spirits just now? And he said, yes, on air. This is on
camera. Like anyone can go check it out. And I asked one of his followers, look, what's going on?
Is he completely delusional? What's he suffering from? Is he making this up and lying on purpose?
I did assume this because he's a cult leader. He claims to be Jesus. He's got plenty of reason
to make people believe it more for that power. And his other people who thinks he's a narcissist.
Well, he said, what can Jesus do? Nothing miraculous. And he said he hasn't connected
with his father yet, just like Jesus in the first century had to be baptized and connect with his
father in some way before he could perform miracles. That's his excuse. But the guy who followed him
said, that's not completely accurate either. Right, exactly. But I mean, the guy has a strange
New Age-y type of beliefs. And the guy who followed him, who was shunned, said, well,
schizophrenia, those voices, that's the spirit realm. Does he remember his former life as Jesus?
That's what he says. So then he can speak Aramaic? No. Oh, bummer. Yeah. And he's Australian.
That's not only the bummer. Like, dude, he went into this ridiculous, I don't even know why I
bring this up. But he said that his wife today is Mary Magdalene from, that was his wife in the
first century too, by the way, he said. And Mary was molested by her mother, her father,
from ages six to 12 and then sold in the prostitution. He said this on air. I had to mention
that detail because it was just one of the craziest things in the interview other than him
talking to the spirit realm and saying, Joseph Smith's in the third ring of hell. I was just like,
who says that about their wife? Why would Jesus think there were rings of hell?
That's not biblical either. Well, he says the Bible is a lot of mythology and it's not accurate.
Oh, well, that's a good cover. I'm the real Jesus and the one that you guys believe in all
those years, that's in a book full of mythology and it gets it all wrong. So then the question
becomes, if Australian Jesus disagrees with the Bible and he says he's right, how could we prove
that? You can't. And I asked him that. And you know what he said? I said, what about the Russian
Jesus and the Mexican Jesus? Because there's guys who believe they really are this.
As it hangs himself on a cross every Easter with nails actually driven through him. Yeah,
I've seen it. It's crazy to me. You're right. And I said, what about them? Are they, what are they?
Fake? He goes, no, no. They're spirits that over cloaked them and make them think that they're
Jesus, but they're not. And so I said, how do we know? That's what I asked him. How do we know
that you're not over cloaked? And he's like, I don't change. And he starts to have an excuse
for every little detail. But I guess I brought that up to tell you. Like one of his followers,
you could tell, still has that strange worldview of beliefs by saying schizophrenia
is not accurate. It doesn't matter. It's the spirit world talking to you.
This is one of the big mistakes that many people do. And you kind of touched on this
because you're talking about how you're looking for naturalistic explanations.
Let's come up with a naturalistic explanation for Jesus walking on water.
We could do that. We could talk about, you know, I've watched Dynamo do it. And he's not all that
impressive. And I've watched Chris Angel do it. And I know how they did those versions of it. But,
you know, maybe, maybe also there was ice or let's, we could come up with that. But the bigger
question is, did it happen at all? No. Why are we trying to explain something that we don't know
whether or not it happened? This is the same mistake that Lacona made in the debate on the
resurrection. He starts off trying to come up with explanations for how a resurrection might have
occurred, which he can't demonstrate. When we haven't even established that one occurred. I'm
actually working on a video, you know, using an actual magic trick to illustrate this point
in more detail. But that's the mistake is, first of all, if something happened,
the first step is to figure out, did it happen? And what do we know about it? What would actually
happen? Then we can start looking at potential candidate explanations for it. But let's say
it's not that we should be looking for naturalistic explanations. We should be looking for explanations.
Now, as it stands right now, you're not going to get a decent explanation. You'll get no explanation
other than natural ones because nobody can demonstrate the supernatural. But instead of saying,
Oh, here's the best naturalistic explanation for this phenomenon, which for believers is like,
Oh man, I feel so sad for that guy. Like he was told this story that Jesus walked on water and
instead of just, you know, being willing to accept that Jesus was divine, he has to find a naturalistic
explanation. So he's going to say that the water was frozen, but doesn't he know we're talking about,
you know, Palestine and Israel and, you know, the water's not going to freeze there. You know,
these sorts of times at those places. And so if you propose explanations, and they are not good
explanations for the phenomenon, then every bad explanation you propose not only gets easily
knocked down by the believers, but it strengthens their belief. Right. Because you are now the
closed-minded one. I was going to say, I don't pose natural explanations necessarily to mythological
or legendary stories. I'm just talking about in the world around us that we live in.
Well, someone says they're hearing voices in their head, for example, and I work in the
mental health area and help like drug addicts, right? I'll be like, did you ingest any drugs?
I'll look for like natural causes in, of course, because I'm not going to leap to those voices
in your head is God's trying to talk to you. He's trying to tell you, right? What is he saying?
Kill yourself? Oh, God, that's the devil, actually. That's not God talking. Like,
I'm not going to jump to those conclusions. So I'll look at something that is in,
that will explain, hey, is this guy need to be diagnosed? Is he on some type of chemicals? Like,
that's what I mean by that. So I don't run into the Bible and do that. You know what I mean?
I get that. But if somebody's saying they're hearing voices in their head, and you say, well,
the most likely cause of that is schizotypal, you know, mental disorder.
Well, what if it's not that?
I mean, what if there's a dead body in the back of your truck? I mean,
well, no, no, no, what if there's a dead body in the back of my truck is something we can
investigate. When you're talking about what's going on in somebody's head and you say, ah,
well, here's the best scientific explanation of it. That may have zero weight and it could be wrong.
So instead, why not look at, okay, you're experiencing what your, what your voice is.
What are the voices saying? And what do you think about what the voices are saying? And then get to
the point where when whatever conclude, all we need to do is show that whatever conclusion they've
reached is not a rational conclusion. Because if they're hearing voices in their head and they
think it's coming from a supernatural realm, how did you, how do you know there's a supernatural
realm? What makes that a viable candidate explanation? Because it's, we need to get everybody on the
planet more comfortable with saying, I don't know, but let's go find out. And for now, if somebody's
hearing voices in their head, I don't know why. I'm not going to pretend to know why. As a mental
health expert, you are going to work within the bounds of what you don't understand. Obviously,
you're going to have to, you know, make a diagnosis and come up with a treatment for that. But rather
than saying, Hey, I think the best explanation for the voices you're hearing is, you know,
some whatever mental health issue. I prefer, you know, if somebody thinks they have an explanation,
make them prove it. Because quite often, I'm not the expert, by the way, I'm just, I just work with,
yeah. It's the same thing that, so what Magnobosco is doing with street epistemology is just basically
the Socratic method of asking them questions over and over again. Oh, so you hear voices. What,
what do you, where do you think the voices are coming from? Oh, I think they're coming from spirits.
Oh, so you don't think they're generated in your mind at all. You think they are actually external
voices that they're coming from some other entity in the, yeah. Yes. How would we tell the difference
between voices that were produced by your head and voices that are coming from outside if you're
the only one who can experience them? And that's a wonderful question, honestly, because that goes
into the soul question that JP Moreland that Shannon Q recently did a video on, these guys were
talking about the soul. I have a very hard time with accepting things that are beyond my own
experience within my brain. Like, I'll ask you a straight up question. I think that you might,
I'd like to have your opinion on, of course. I mean, nobody, you probably don't have an absolute,
I know the answer on this, but you have an opinion, I suspect. Consciousness, mind, soul,
if you will, synonymous, same thing in your opinion? Well, soul's not. And I don't know why,
once we get to what you started saying, oh, mind and soul are synonymous. Well, then let's just
stick with mind, because far as I can tell, the mind is what the brain does. And everything that
has been, every, every characteristic that's been attributed to a human soul is an identifiable,
functional part of the brain, or is something that nobody's been able to demonstrate is real.
So my likes, my preferences, my personality, all of those things exist in my brain. And we've
done experiments to show that those things can be rewritten, altered, wiped out, changed through
physical trauma to the brain. Now, that's a huge problem for anybody who thinks there's a ghost
in the machine, because the best they can, they can do is say, okay, the machine's broken, so now
the ghost can't steer the way at once. But that puts us in a strange position. If the ghost doesn't
want me to sin, but my body sins anyway, as my ghost is my soul guilty of that, or
is am I able to take actions absent my soul? And if that's the case, if I'm actually able to take
actions absent my soul, then what reason is there for a soul at all? Because here's person A who has
no soul and walks around. And here's person B who has a brain that's broken where a soul can't
interact with it enough. And here's person C who is a soul piloted machine. And from the
standpoint, from the external standpoint, all three of them look identical, they're all able to
do things or all would take actions that we evaluate as good or bad. And so when we look at the soul,
it's either all the things are a part of our functioning brain, or there are things that
nobody can demonstrate, like the soul is the part of you that continues to exist after you're dead.
Well, I don't see any reason to think there's any part of me that continues to exist after I'm dead.
Not in that sense, not in an agency sense.
You really spelled that out really well. So as far as you stand right now,
based on the evidence that you see and you're able to, I guess you observe,
is that right now you have no reason to think beyond your mind being the solution for having
consciousness, if you will. The mind is what produces consciousness. Now, I say that because I
just listened to an idealist philosopher who was on T-Jump's channel, I'm sure you've heard
of these names. Tom Jump actually was having a discussion debate with this guy and he was saying,
look, material is in consciousness, right? Like prove, I don't know where you can prove that
or how you could prove that, but he was arguing, I guess, that consciousness isn't produced by the
brain or the mind, if you will. And I personally disagree with that. As far as I can tell right
now that where I'm at in my research, it doesn't, I don't take the idealist philosopher position
that consciousness is like something outside that's abstract, that's beyond us. It's something
that the mind is producing, if you will. And of course- I don't like the notion of producing
because it makes it seem like it's a thing. To me, consciousness is a state, not a thing.
So consciousness, the awareness, it's kind of like my favorite example. Now, granted, I don't
fully agree with Dennett, but I'm reluctant to disagree with Dennett too often, whether it's
from the mind's eye or elbow room or any of the various other books he's done on consciousness
and free will, you know, it's far more about it than I do. I look at there. So what is wet?
What does it mean for something to be wet? Water is wet, but there's no property of a
water molecule that is wet. The only thing about water that's wet is its interaction
with other water molecules, this particular state here. And so that's what we've referred to as an
emergent property. It's not a property of water. It's an emergent property of water interacting.
And so for me, consciousness is just awareness. It is the emergent property of a brain processing
what's going on. And I have no problem with the notion that, you know, you don't have to go to
full on artificial intelligence, no idea where we get there. Even my cell phone may have something
that is roughly analogous to consciousness. We don't know. I don't know how we would identify that,
but, you know, an ant is conscious to whatever extent an ant is conscious. I mean, I realize
it just made a tautology there, but a rock is not. And an ant is probably conscious. And I think
my cell phone might have something closer to awareness and consciousness. It just doesn't have
the agency to act necessarily on its own that an ant would or a roach would. And so we have to take
a look at what are all the components that make up what we want to call consciousness. But I don't
see it as something that is produced as if it's, you know, like, I produce videos.
Yeah, this gets into an interesting discussion. I appreciate you actually taking the time to
answer that because, man, it gets into this kind of strange position where
you can say deism, for example, like you've talked about before. And in that video that I
played at the beginning, the difference between deism and really someone who's a naturalist,
so to speak, and I don't mean philosophical naturalist, but someone who thinks that, hey,
we can interact with what we know. And what we know is the natural world. And until I have
evidence otherwise, there's not really any difference. Oftentimes, it's like the very
first start. Oftentimes, oh, God started it. But the deist is claiming to accept something
that they can't demonstrate. Right. That's the difference. I'm not claiming to demonstrate,
and I'm not claiming to believe anything that I can't demonstrate or that somebody hasn't demonstrated.
Well, thank you for answering that. Let's conceptualize deism and non-theism on a sliding
scale of confidence in the probability that gods exist. So theism or deism entail a relatively
high level of confidence, while non-theism is merely the inverse. Let's say that non-theism
is the same as atheism for all intents and purposes. It simply boils down to the belief
that deism is less probable. Do you like this scale? Thanks to my friend Steven Nelson producing
these little charts here, scale slides, if you will. No, but nobody should take that personally,
because I don't like docking scale either, because I don't see a scale. I see a proposition,
and the proposition is either accepted or not accepted, period. There's no other option. There's
not a sliding scale between, I believe a god exists and I don't believe a god exists. That is
a binary. It's just like, it is a fact that either my spouse is cheating on me or they are not.
There are no other options. Now, when it comes to do I believe my spouse is cheating on me,
there's only two options. Either believe they're cheating on me or I do not believe they're cheating
on me. What about the other proposition that they are not believing, that they are not cheating?
I either believe that proposition or I do not. It's possible for me to reject both of them. The
only time I'm in trouble is if I accept both of them. Rejecting both of the propositions is a
state of, I don't know. Accepting both of them is a state of cognitive dissonance.
Interesting, interesting. All right, all right. We would agree that the number,
like if you were to number the blades of grass on the planet, the number would either be even or odd.
Right? Yes. Yes. So because we know that the numbers even are odd,
clearly there's no sliding scale there. Now, what about our beliefs? Well, if you're convinced it's
even, then you're not convinced it's odd. And if you're convinced it's odd, you're not convinced
it's even. It's not like I'm 72.8% leaning towards even. Right. I mean, don't get me wrong. I
understand that that is that what I just described and mocked is in a real sense,
the fuzzy way we think about something like that is about judging our confidence level. But which
side of the confidence, you know, like here's your midpoint, you're either confident or you're not.
And to be a humist as I am, it's the wise person who proportions their confidence to the belief.
You should be just as convinced that you are correct as the evidence warrants.
Interesting. Thank you.
With respect to belief in poltergeist or cryptophasms, one can conceptualize this is
in the same terms as belief in gods. So if etalism, the belief in ghost,
entails a relatively high level of confidence in the probability of ghost existing,
non-etalism is merely the inverse, the belief there, there's a low probability of the existence
ghost of any kind. And perhaps this kind of recontextualization could help non-theist explain
why they don't believe in God based on the lack of evidence. The burden of proof is on the believer
of ghosts to demonstrate that there's sufficient evidence to warrant such a belief.
Yeah. And so once again here, and I don't know if the last slide had this, but you've got agnostic
undecided as a line as if it's in the middle. And that's not correct because this is a measure of
belief and knowledge is a subset of beliefs. So you can, you know, agnostic is not like a middle
waypoint between two options. It's a separate issue. Do you believe your spouse is cheating on you?
Well, do you know your spouse is cheating on you? Do you believe in ghosts? Well, do you know
that there are ghosts? Agnostic is irrelevant. If you say, do you believe X, no one should ever
reply with, I'm agnostic. Because the question is about belief and they answered with knowledge
or with a label for knowledge. Interesting. So let me ask you this, because in my mind,
if I was to play on the theist position, they're going to sound like, okay, you don't know that
there aren't any gods, of course, but you believe there aren't any gods for sufficient reason.
There's a lack of evidence. There's no evidence to purport that there is God or gods.
In their mind, and maybe you can explain, you'll, you'll get where I'm coming from,
they'll see you and say, you're purposely not believing in a God like you're, you don't want
there to be one. What would you say to that person who's saying, look, you don't know that
there aren't any gods, but it sounds like you don't want there to be any because you don't
actively try to. I don't, I don't want there to be any, but what difference does it make? That's
not the, that's not the reason that I don't believe. I'm, I don't believe because I'm not
convinced because there isn't sufficient evidence. Whether or not I want there to be a God is a
separate question. Under some circumstances, I might be happy with the notion that there's a
God, but I definitely don't want there to be a God. If it turns out that that God has been
hiding from everybody and allowing us to create so much strife and struggle and war and then just
absolute atrocities while we're trying to figure out whether or not it exists,
that God is absolutely immoral and a monster for not stepping in and going, hang on a minute.
These people are right. You guys are wrong. Let me fix this. So if it turns out there is a God
and he's just up there like peeping on us and watching us masturbate or in judging us or whatever
else, screw that God. I definitely don't want that God to exist, but what I want has no bearing on
what is and it also doesn't have a bearing on what I believe. I was a sincere, devoted Christian
from the time I was five all the way until I eventually gave it up. When I did that,
that resurrection debate with Michael Kone, it was here at Austin Baptist Church and members of my
church that I attended as a teenager flew down to that debate, stood up during the Q and A and
asked questions. And when the first one was, Hey, you may not remember me. I'm a deacon from your
church. My name is so-and-so. And when you were a teenager, we thought you were going to go on to
great things and we want to know what happened. Now, I don't ever have to talk my credentials when
people that I went to church with decades ago are following me around the country going, hang on,
we thought you were really on fire for the Lord. What's happened now? And I just wanted to respond
with, I did go on to great things, just not the God things. That's pretty interesting that you
say that. They thought that you, that for those naysayers who don't think that Matt was serious,
because that's the thing I hear all the time from Christians is you couldn't have been really saved
or, you know, Calvinists love to do that. You got to make up excuses. Well, Calvinists would just
laugh it off because, you know, they're not, they don't think there's free will anyway. I had a great
lunch with a Calvinist because of a prank caller to the show. And we went out to lunch a couple
times because this guy kept calling saying he was Mark from Stone Church and he wasn't, he was a
liar and a fraud. But it put me in touch with people at Stone Church here in Austin and I went
and had lunch with an associate pastor. And we had some interesting talks about Calvinism and I asked
him, I was like, well, if you don't think there's free will, why do you run around preaching to
people? And he goes, because I don't have any free will, I have to. And I was like, oh, but it's
funny. And then the sad thing is he left to go on a mission to the Middle East and died from an IED.
And so we never got to have lunch again. Oh, that's sad. I was a Calvinist for many years and then
got excommunicated from the PCA church because I started to adopt a position called full
preterism. I don't know if you've ever heard of that position. Like we wanted, Jesus said he was
coming back, man. He said these things were going to happen. So rather than deny that they did or
tried to say like Bart Ehrman as a fell, you know, prophet or he didn't actually do what he said he
would, would return, we said he did. Because he said he was going to happen soon. He was supposed
to come back soon. All this stuff was to happen. Some of you will not taste of death until I come
back in the glory yet. So it must have happened. It must have happened, right? And the curious thing
for me is everybody who does that goes down the must have happened route is why isn't it recorded
anywhere? Why is it that everything else about all this is recorded, but that's not? Right. Well,
they try to, the loophole they use is Jesus didn't come back physically riding like a surfboard on
the clouds. He came back an interesting note in Acts. It says that he would return in the same manner.
But yeah, let's scratch that one to the side for a second because Acts acts like the way he left
is the way he'll come back, you know, out of the clouds and whatnot. But they want to go to Josephus
and say, look, he saw armies in the clouds and that was Jesus returning destroying Israel. But
he was supposed to bring salvation to Israel as well. So I just don't get how they got saved in
that. Predators still make any sense at this point now that I've come out. But Matt, if there's
someone, and this is my final thing, because I want to have you come back, I want to do more when it
comes to this talk topic, if you will. And I got last question I have for you now, and we can do,
of course, more down the road. If you're interested, I'd love to have you come back, maybe even do
live shows, so we can harass our audience. They won't harass us. We can harass them.
Someone is sitting on the fence. They're sincere. And they want to know the truth. They're scared,
though, by letting go of their faith and their belief, if you will, in God's. My mom, for example,
I'm sure you have loved ones that are Christian still. And they are interested in coming to
consider the evidence against their position. What would be your first recommendation to that
person? Stay on the fence. Stay on the fence. If you legitimately can't make up your mind,
stay on the fence, because you know what the fence is? Not Christian. Christianity requires
being convinced. Theism requires being convinced. There's nothing wrong with staying on the fence.
One could argue, I'm still on the fence. It's not like I said, oh, there's no way
that can ever happen. I'm writing it all off or anything else. It's just I'm not on that side
of the fence. And so eventually what's going to happen is somebody's going to realize, you know
what? It's kind of uncomfortable and irritating up on the fence. And it's, man, nobody's really
doing anything. And since that side there, the one that says theism is the one that actually
requires me to say, yes, I believe this. It doesn't matter whether I'm sitting on the fence
or standing on this other side of the fence, because if something actually happens over there,
I can always jump the fence. When the evidence is there that makes it compelling to believe it,
that is the one and only time that I should believe it. If I were to believe it before
the evidence warranted it, I would be irrational. If I were to deny the evidence for it, I would
also be irrational. So for the people who are just like, oh, man, it's just so difficult. Yeah,
it can be until you realize this. Are you actually convinced that the proposition is true? And if
you're not, then you're an atheist and atheist, whatever you want to call yourself, I don't care
about the label. But the other thing about this is that if you're not convinced and there is in
fact a God, and that God wants you to be convinced and wants you to know them, why hasn't he taken
any step to make it happen? The argument from Divine Hiddenness in its various forms is the
strongest argument against these gods. And the strange thing is that there are people, everybody,
well, a good chunk of everybody who are believers, are running around not only in the case of deism,
detecting the undetected, but these people are convinced that there's a God that is completely
incompatible with what we observe in reality. There's no way that there is a loving God that
truly wants me to know that he exists, which is what they tell me. They tell me that all the time,
Matt, God just wants you to know, and Matt, God wants you to know, God wants you to know,
then God can come talk to me and quit sending the people who have no evidence and no argument.
And by the way, I can be the most robust, anti-theist,
gnostic, strong, atheist jackass on the planet, and God can still show up and absolutely convince
me that he exists. One needs to start asking the question, why hasn't this happened? And why is it
that, watch a couple episodes of the Atheist experience, maybe not yesterday or Sundays,
as Sundays was exceptionally weird, why is it that, but the clip you showed, why is it I can
ask a question and not get a direct answer to it? Why is there's always something extra that
isn't? Because we were talking about either there is a God or there isn't, boom, no,
that's direct logical negation. There's no other option. And the caller, instead of just agreeing
that this was a case, agreed and then wanted to say, ah, but we could, we could maybe believe.
Oh no, no, that's a separate question. And I don't want to, I don't want to spoil the video I'm working
on, but it's like, if I took this little orange bit right here and held it like this and let go
of it, is it going to hit the table and make a noise? Oh, ah, maybe it didn't. Maybe some of your
assumptions are wrong, but by and large, we know what to expect. And if I, if I say that, hey,
are there only two options, something is true or not true? And anybody says anything other than
yes, I already know we're not dealing with reality. So I don't truly think that there's people on a
fence. I think there are people who are going, I kind of believe this, the probabilistic knowledge
or the probabilistic belief that I was talking about earlier. I kind of believe this. And instead
of saying, do I actually accept a proposition, which is what I think we should do, what they're
saying is, how confident could I be in this proposition? I don't want to rule out a God.
But the thing is, even if you were to put a probability scale up there,
until you got to 50.x percent, you're still a non-believer. And it doesn't begin at this
long. Not like there's a, you know, oh, I'm exactly at 50% and that's the fence. Well,
I don't think that place exists. And the lights either on or it's not on.
You make a really good point. And I think that it is testable. I mean, and what I mean is,
the Bible talks like this, like, you know, ask and you shall receive, right? So you can go ahead
and test this. And if it doesn't happen, that test is failed. Exactly. Because the Bible says
whatever, wherever two or more of you are gathered together in my name, whatever you ask for, I will
grant. And that means that no two believers have ever asked for world peace or an end to suffering
or have even asked for me to be fired from the show that I do. Or have even asked for us to, like,
not be able to have a bat cruise. Nobody's gotten together to do any of that. And so that shows
that that statement is simply not true. There could still be a God that doesn't rule out a God,
but that statement in the Bible isn't true. And if you start going through these for Christianity
and Judaism and Islam and all these various religions, when you start showing, here's 50
claims about this religion. 40 of them we can show aren't true. And the other 10, we don't know.
If the other 10 were true, why weren't the first 40 true? And until you can identify any one
point that's true, you don't have any reason to believe any of it. Ladies and gentlemen, Matt
de la Hunte, atheist experience. Matt, what are some of the ways people can help you? Where, like,
what's going on in, we'll go ahead and end this program. Oh, I kind of just did this the other
day for the first time. But I don't know for sure if it works. So let me double check before I give
out, because I created a link tree. Okay, so yep, there we go. If you go to link, link tree,
which is link tr dot e slash Matt de la Hunte, you get my YouTube, my Twitch, my Twitter, my Facebook.
Oh, my Patreon's not up there. But I'll have to do that soon too. I just did that yesterday
to make it easier. Add it in there. I'll put it all in the description, ladies and gentlemen.
Make sure you go down there, check Matt's stuff out, help support what he's doing. Obviously,
I really enjoy what Matt brings to the table. I've been watching him for years. I used to not
like you. I was a Christian. And only because you know how it is, it's like I rooted for the
William Lane Craigs and the Ravi Zacharias. The Ravi Zacharapist? Zacharapist, yes. So I actually
was a dude, I spent tons of money on his apologist works and stuff and all the debates that are
out there, man, I was on that side of the fence. And I saw everything from that side of the fence.
And I did a debate with Abdul Murray, who was part of Ravi's ministry. And I haven't spoken to Abdul
since. But Abdul is a great guy in the sense that I liked him. We got along. I don't think that
anybody had a clue just what was going on behind the scenes with Ravi. So I'm not begrudging anybody.
I mean, we've seen so many of these ministers fall and then cry and ask for forgiveness and come
back. And I remember, you know, tons of them as my mom would watch these these televangelists and
stuff. I think that there's a Bible verse that might be useful for everybody. And that is where
the Bible says, let God be true and every man a liar. Now, if you take that and think that it's
correct, then you cannot possibly be a theist because you have no knowledge or information
and not a single word from a God. All you have are the writings of men about a God. And if they're
all liars, then you got to keep looking until God comes along and tells you the truth.
So everyone's an atheist until then. I'm scared. Matt, thanks so much, man. This was a wonderful
discussion. And of course, I'd love to do more with you in the future. So go down in the description,
help them out. You guys can join MythVision podcast, Patreon as well. There's so many
options there. I ask you guys to go down there and help us out with that. So never ever forget,
though. We are MythVision.
