Hale Messiah? I'm not the Messiah! I say you are, Lord, and I should know I've followed a few! Hale Messiah! I'm not the Messiah! Will you please listen? I am not the Messiah, do you understand? Honestly!
Only the true Messiah denies his divinity! What? What sort of justice does that give me? All right, I am the Messiah!
He is the Messiah!
Hale Messiah!
Hale Messiah!
Detailed basic question, if you will, for Dr. Allison. Thanks, Derek.
Randall Helms, John Dominic Crossen, Robert Price, Dennis Macdonald, and many others such as the recent published book The Origins of Early Christian Literature, Robin Faith,
she proposed that the Gospels are better described as primarily literary documents weaved together from Old Testament stories such as Elijah, Elisha, and Moses, as well as possibly other sources like Homer.
This account doesn't preclude there being a historical Jesus, but provides more recognition of the literary imagination and motifs which are clearly ubiquitous to the Gospels. How would you analyze this alternative approach to the Gospels?
Okay, I don't want to comment on any particular scholar there. I don't see an either or here, so I think that I appreciate the literary artistry of the evangelists.
I also know that they are reading things through their own agendas. I know that they are adding things and rewriting things.
I also agree completely that these stories can be thought of, or no, that these stories are exceedingly intertextual.
Now, I think that the main argument that's probably behind this question goes back to David Friedrich Strauss in the 19th century in his great book, The Life of Jesus Critically Examined.
And what he does is he goes to the Gospels, Paragraph by Paragraph, and he says, I don't think this happened. I know where this story comes from.
So, for example, Jesus feeds 5,000 in the wilderness. There's a story very much like this in Second Kings having to do with Elisha, where he feeds 100 people with just a little bit of bread.
Actually, barley bread in John 6 says the bread was barley bread. So, the evangelists are aware of how similar these stories are.
Strauss thinks he's right. He goes through the Gospels and he uncovers parallel after parallel after parallel.
And he does what some of the people named do. They infer from this that we have fiction or these are mostly fictional texts.
I'm more cautious here. So, I think that the early Christians lived and moved and had their being in the Jewish scriptures, and that everything they perceived and saw and experienced was perceived in those terms.
It's sort of like their language. So, if they thought in Aramaic, they also thought in Bible.
So, let's say, for example, that Jesus at some point was actually seen by Peter in a vision. Let's just be hypothetical here.
Peter in a vision saw Jesus glowing. All right? Saw lit up Jesus. What is Peter going to think? Is Peter going to say, I saw a lit up Jesus? End of story.
No, he's not. He's going to think if he's a pious religious Jew and he knows any of these stories they tell, he's going to think, I've seen this one before.
And then he's going to think, wow, are there any other parallels? Or when he tells this story, aren't people going to add parallels to it?
So, you can look at Paul in Galatians 1. Paul retells the story to some extent of his conversion and he uses the language of Deutero Isaiah and Jeremiah 1.
That doesn't mean it's fiction. He's actually using biblical phrases and turns.
If I may just to put into this, this is amazing because I've said this recently. It doesn't rule out the historical memory there.
And what it does is it just shows if there's thinking in that context in the Hebrew Scriptures and they have an experience, or let's use another more practical,
rather than getting into like paranormal or like, is this a supernatural thing or whatever it is people like to call it.
Let's use like feeding 5,000, right? Let's just say Jesus really says one day, let's go out here and we're going to share this bread whether you call it a miracle.
Some people just say it's a sharing experience. It doesn't matter. The point is he's mimicking his experience of the life that he lives through the Hebrew Scriptures.
So it's like saying, I'm self-fulfilling in a way, things that are already previously mentioned. Does that make sense?
Yeah, that makes sense. And actually people do think typologically. So the story I always remember and the lineage I always remember is that Alexander the Great was imitating Achilles.
He wanted to be like Achilles and Julius Caesar wanted to imitate Alexander the Great and Napoleon wanted to imitate Julius Caesar and General Santa Anna wanted to imitate Napoleon.
I mean, you have a whole line here where these people are consciously trying to be like somebody trying to achieve the greatness of this mythological image that they have.
So people do these things. It would make perfect sense for Jesus, if he thought of himself, say hypothetically as a messianic figure, to wonder about how he would relate to Moses, for example.
Anyway, you can go on and on. Eusebius tells the story of Constantine's victory at the bridge in the early 4th century.
He tells this as though it's the story of Exodus and Moses and the drowning of the Red Sea. But it's a real historical event. No historian doubts it, but he writes it up in these flowery terms.
So that would be my first point. My first point is that you can think in a language, but Scripture is also a language.
And so you can formulate your stories and experiences in those terms.
But the second thing is that here I suppose I'm with the Apologists, but they are also in line with a lot of mainstream critical gospel scholars who would appeal to the so-called criterion of embarrassment.
Now, I have problems with that criterion, but it does seem to me there is a surprising amount of material in the Gospels that I think is unlikely to have been just made up.
So I don't think early Christians sat around and said, let's make up a story in which people think Jesus is a drunkard, right?
He hangs out with, you know, he's a wine-bipper, or he hangs out with toll collectors and sinners, or let's make up a story in which his mother and family don't believe in him, right?
I think you can go through, or let's make up a story in which people say Jesus is possessed by a demon.
So there are a number of places in the Gospels where, if you want to call embarrassment or whatever, I just look at it and say, I think that's a memory here.
I think people, probably some people who didn't like Jesus or opposed him, said he was possessed by a demon, and here we have a memory of that.
Or they said he was a friend of toll collectors and sinners, which was not a good thing. It was a really bad thing.
So those sorts of stories, those little items, give me some confidence that there is some memory here.
And then there's another thing. It actually has to do with what we were talking about in a previous interview.
Paul and the overlap with Jesus, right? And why there often isn't an overlap.
It's very interesting if you go through the Gospels. A lot of the things that early Christians worried about aren't in the Gospels.
Why not? Why didn't they make up a story where Jesus solves this issue of circumcision? Why isn't that there?
Why of all things do you have the bizarre story of the Syrophoenician woman?
She's a Gentile. He doesn't want to help her, but then he gradually does. Who made this up?
Is it the pro-Gentile side or the anti-Gentile side? I don't know that there's history behind that, but it doesn't look like a pure construction to me.
It's kind of weird. And the thing is, I would expect better instruction in the Gospels if there's nothing but fiction.
This brings up a wonderful point in what you said.
If we see that there is buildup of legend, or if you will, a narrative, it's got a literary artistic approach.
But there may be memory of something really a kernel here of history. The question then becomes, how do we divorce that?
The skeptics might go the other way and say, look, if there is, we can't know.
And then the other guys go, no, like the apologist. And I know you probably aren't saying when you say you side with the apologist that you say,
because there's a kernel, I believe that it's all literally true in what it's actually saying.
But a lot of the apologists are saying that. They're saying, because this would be, their whole argument that I, from what I can tell,
and I'm not talking about every apologist, for the most part, the ones that I've seen, they'll say stuff like, well, that was embarrassing.
And because that was embarrassing, we can trust everything that you say is what happened.
That's a non sequitur. So let's say you have 10 units, 10 units, and you say, I think I can show or make good arguments that there's history in units one and two.
That just doesn't say anything about units three through 10. It doesn't.
And it would in a world in which people cared only about history. That's all that make human beings tick.
But we know that it doesn't.
And they were thinking that way.
Well, they weren't thinking that way. But you know, there's another thing here.
So let's say that you came to the conclusion that Mark was written by Mark and that Mark actually knew Peter.
All right. And so he's getting his stuff from Peter and that Peter is an eyewitness.
Okay. Now we know that eyewitnesses sometimes remember things correctly.
But we also know that eyewitnesses sometimes don't get things right.
But we also know that people exaggerate.
I've actually been in the middle of telling a story and thinking, oh, if I went that way, it'd be a much better story.
Wouldn't it?
And sometimes I haven't. Sometimes I haven't.
But we don't know what Peter's personality was.
We don't know if just assuming that he is behind some of the stories in Mark, we have no idea whether he had a good memory or bad memory.
Some people are foggy-brained. Some people have, you know, fantastic memories.
But we don't know what Peter's memory was like.
We don't know to what extent he was a great storyteller and liked to, you know, run with things.
We just don't know these things.
So you can't go from one and two to the whole thing.
That's why one of the things I've tried to do over the last, I don't know, 15 years or so,
is I said, I don't think I have the ability, the talent to go through the tradition and say, this is authentic.
That's authentic. This is authentic. I don't think I have that ability.
I can do it with some things. Some things I look at and say, I don't think so.
And some things I look at and say, yeah, I'm pretty confident.
But that still leaves me, I don't know, 70, 80% of this material.
So my way of trying to get around this, maybe it's the wrong way, maybe I'm too trusting,
but is to look at themes and motifs that keep repeating themselves,
that keep appearing in different strata, in different sources, in different genres.
You know, I find this insane. I find this in parables. I find this in stories.
It's a cue mark and so on.
And thinking that that's the place to start.
And if it's not the place to start, if I'm wrong in doing this,
then we just have to give up because the sources have such bad memory.
But I don't think there's strictly any way of getting out of a circle here.
I really don't.
And I think I said in an earlier book that there are, there's subjectivity here, right?
And I've been asking myself actually this week about a couple of passages and thinking,
I think that's Jesus. Can I give any good reason why I think it's, I can't,
I'm struggling to come up with something.
When I read the arguments pro and con, I know they don't convince me.
But the point is, is that there is an element of subjectivity.
You know, there are these world experts that they call in when they want to authenticate a painting
or discover whether it's a forgery.
And these people, yeah, that's a fake or, you know, that's really a Rembrandt.
Forgers can be really good.
And some of these people, you talk to them, how do you do that?
I don't know. It's just something I do. I just learned, right?
Or it's kind of like people at a seance.
Let's say you've lost your spouse and you go to a seance and you, you know,
your husband speaks through, you know, that is my husband.
Yeah, that really is my husband.
This is a very subjective thing, right?
So I think there's a subjective element.
It bothers me. I don't know how to get around it.
But all this leads up to, I think, so I may fool myself.
I think I'm in contact with a person or a personality when I'm reading the synoptics.
The guy in John is very different for me.
He's very different.
But the guy in Matthew, Mark and Luke, I think I can sense somebody behind this stuff.
Now, somebody may say, you know, skeptic would say,
well, you're just like the, the bereaving widow at the seance, you know,
you want to hear and so you think you've done this.
I hope not.
I actually have to, this is going to sound weird coming from a skeptic.
I like what you said there.
The reason I at one point was a mythicist.
I admit this on camera, right? So I want everyone to know.
I went full skeptic after you start finding out.
It's not literally jot and tittle historical, literal.
And, and I went, what, you can't trust any of it.
So I went full skeptic.
I mean, I went all the way.
And then I started like realizing in my little allegorical example here,
I started sweeping away.
I went, hold on, that's a bone.
Well, that looks like a fossil there, at least something.
And I started going, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, there's dirt and there's fossils.
There's, there's like, there's something here.
I don't know what I'm trying to find out.
And this has been my journey on mythish and literally to this day.
And the journey is probably never going to end till I died because it's just the kind of data we have.
But I'm with you in the sense that like when someone who's a mythist says to me,
give me the Jesus.
And it's like, like, you don't understand, you can't give you the Jesus,
but that doesn't make it not a very likely thing that there's an apocalyptic type of profit here behind the scene,
behind the, that we're kind of seizing out of the text here that is there.
And there are things that, for me, make sense, exactly what you just said.
I relate to that.
And I feel like, sure, I couldn't make you a argument that's going to convince you
because you won't even accept some of this other stuff that I'm saying probably points to some reality there.
You're already trying to find ways to discredit, well, it's mimesis.
Okay, if it's mimesis, therefore it couldn't have happened.
And it's like, we just talked about that and how literary tropes that are used doesn't denigrate, negate.
Negate, if you will, the historical reality of someone even acting in the world they lived in, like we talked about.
So it's so complex, it's just difficult.
It's difficult.
Well, I agree.
That should drive anything else to say about that.
Thank you.
Now, fuck off!
