We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. Ladies and gentlemen, a hot topic
that we have for you today. And I know you're excited to see what we're going to talk about.
I have an expert on this topic in terms of Hebrew Bible and understanding what is the Bible
talking about. And that is Idan Dershowitz. And he is a scholar. He's the chair of Hebrew Bible
and it's exegesis at the University of Potsdam, Potsdam undergraduate and graduate training at
the Hebrew University following several years of Yeshiva study, elected in 2017 to the Harvard
Society of Fellows. He is the author of two books, the dismembered Bible, cutting and pasting
scripture and antiquity, and the Valediction of Moses, a proto-biblical book. I'm looking forward
to reading both of these thoroughly. Go down in the description. Make sure you get a copy because
this is going to be one of those videos you're going to want to know. Does the Bible teach this?
Is it condemning homosexuality? Well, he's currently studying the composition histories of Deuteronomy
and the priestly corpus. For those who don't know, the documentary hypothesis has been on my mind
a lot lately. Because if we don't know that these are multiple sources that are compiled by
some redactor, who knows when we might be stuck reading things like fundamentalist. Well, I know
that carries over sometimes when I was raised that way. That's not the kind of caliber we're
dealing with today. So with that being said, welcome to the show, Idan Dershowitz. And I hope
I get your name correct there. As I go, my mind wants to say Eden. And it's like, no, it's not
E-D-A-N or E-D-E-N. It's it's Idan. And so thank you so much. Nailed it. Yeah. Thanks so much for
having me. Thank you. I can't wait to see what you bring to the table here at MythVision. Also,
a sister channel of ours, Digital Hammurabi, really good friend Dr. Joshua Bowen and his
wonderful wife, Megan. They're looking forward to hopefully talking to you here in the near future.
So straight out the gate, you wrote some hot, controversial stuff on the topic of homosexuality
in the Bible. And I have to like lay out the groundwork if you don't mind. Many people who are
like definitely hardcore right-wingers in America, for example, are like using the Bible to slap
people in the head who are that's their preference. That's their lifestyle. In fact, that's who they
really believe they are. And their experience tells them that they're in love with the same sex.
And they're looking to this ancient book and they're saying, I'm going to hit you in the
head with it. And the other people are saying, I believe I can't let this go. And they're justifying.
Well, it doesn't teach that. It's talking about something else. And sometimes I catch myself
in the middle going, does it teach condemnation and death to a person who practices such things? Or
is it really talking about that? And so today I brought you on so that you could take all the
flak when things come flying. So anyways, tell us about it if you don't mind. What is the conflict?
Yeah, well, I mean, I think that the different positions that you presented are both true. And
so the question is what we make of that. In other words, the Bible reflects different ideas, often
contradictory ideas. And different people will focus on different things, depending on, you know,
often on their prior biases and so on. And there's a classic scene in the West Wing. I haven't seen
it for more than a decade. But I remember, you know, exactly on this sort of issue where someone is
citing the Bible, you know, I think in the context, it might even be in the context of homosexuality,
and then President Jed Bartlett retorts with, you know, a whole series of other things that the
Bible says are abominations. And, you know, those are typically things that don't keep anyone even
fundamentalists up at night. And so, you know, the point being that the Bible is full of all sorts of
things. And, and there's a tendency for people, you know, really across the spectrum to cherry
pick the things that, you know, most closely aligned with their ideologies. So, you know,
when it comes to the topic specifically of homosexuality, there's no question that there
are passages that, you know, could not be more explicit, like Leviticus 18, that, you know,
that really make it clear that homosexual relations are, you know, considered by that
author to be abhorrent. But there, you know, other passages where the impression is very different.
And, and I think, and this is something that I did in my research in my analysis of Leviticus 18,
you can sometimes see even, you know, development within a single text that changes, you know,
that reflects different opinions regarding, regarding this topic. And so I think that
Leviticus 18 in its current form is, is, you know, extremely opposed to male homosexual intercourse.
But an earlier iteration of the laws that are contained in Leviticus 18 might have had a different,
a different position. If I may read this, I'm reading from the new English translation, which
there's always a problem when you get to English and you're trying to read something. But
this is why I love coming to you guys like you who are scholars to, if you will, break down this
stuff so that simple minds such as myself can wrap our heads around it. So it says, you must not have
sexual relations with a male as one has sexual relations with a woman. It is det, it is a detestable
act. So just sticking with this one in particular, I know that you may not have your text right in
front of you, but I'm sure you've heard it enough and had enough conflict on the internet to say,
or in the world at large, to kind of like break down what's going on here. What does the earlier
stuff say that maybe like, because before I let you run to this, I think it's important to say,
why is this being said at all? Because people are humans have been practicing,
practicing this as far back as we could possibly record and before that. So there's something,
I think, innate in our natures as humans to, to do such acts or to have this kind of tendency.
So this wall would not be there if there weren't people who were probably doing these things.
Anyways, what did the earlier forms maybe say? So I think that the, the prohibitions against male
homosexual intercourse that appear in this chapter, and it's worth noting that there are no prohibitions
anywhere to be found in the Bible against female homosexual intercourse. So I think that, that they
belong to a relatively late revision of the chapter. And I think that they go hand, that this
provision goes hand in hand with certain edits that we can perceive elsewhere in the same chapter
in a list of forbidden sexual unions, like incestuous sexual unions. And so
it's through an analysis of, of this seemingly irrelevant list of forbidden family members
that we can see that there was some, that homosexuality was a, you know, was a key issue
motivating the evolution of these laws. And I'd be very happy to explain that in,
in more detail and get into the, into the real meat of it. Yeah, yeah, let's do that.
Should I read the Leviticus 20 scenario? Are we, or does this particular passage take the time?
You're probably going to need to elucidate on this particular one, huh?
Yeah, I mean, I think that Leviticus 20, I mean, it's also very relevant, and it sort of reflects
the same, the same sorts of things that we see here in Leviticus 18. So we can start with Leviticus
18 in any event. I'm going to open it up here in, in English as well. Cool. All right, so, so there's
a unit of laws that appears from verse six in chapter 18, and it goes on to, I don't know, say,
it's hard to say where exactly it ends, but it continues at least to verse 17. And the,
the general structure is the nakedness of so and so you shall not uncover, and then some sort of
like further, you know, statement on that. So for example, it says in verse 10, you shall not
uncover the nakedness of your son's daughter, or of your daughter's daughter, for their nakedness
is your own nakedness. And there are other ones, like it says, you shall not uncover the nakedness
of your mother's sister, for she has your mother's flesh. And this is the, the structure that repeats
itself throughout the unit. And what, what I found fascinating when I read this is that there are two
places in the unit where the sort of elaboration that appears after the prohibition, so after you
shall not uncover the nakedness of so and so, you know, it says something, there are two places
where that something that it says, fundamentally transforms our understanding of what we have
just read. So in every other case, it doesn't really do much, but in two places, it completely
transforms our understanding, right? So I'll just, I'll just explain that. So, you know, in, in the
verse that I just read, you know, you shall not uncover the nakedness of your son's daughter,
your daughter's daughter, for their nakedness is your own nakedness. So the statement for their
nakedness is your own nakedness is neither here nor there, you know, it gives us a little bit more
information maybe, but it doesn't change anything about our understanding of what the actual prohibition
is. But there are two places where you, you read the beginning of the verse and you're like, ah,
I understand what we're talking about. And then you read the end of the verse and you're like,
wait a second, I don't, I must have misunderstood something. And those, and those two verses have
something in common. And that coincidence is the key to understanding what's going on here. So
the first of the examples is the very first verse in this unit where it says,
you shall not uncover the nakedness of your father or the nakedness of your mother.
So I'm reading it now, let me just get the Hebrew. So I'll translate it literally,
the nakedness of your father and the nakedness of your mother, you shall not uncover.
And that sounds, if we just read that much, the nakedness of your father and the nakedness
of your mother shall not uncover. Sounds like we're talking about the father and the mother.
And this euphemism, we understand it to mean something like, don't have sexual intercourse.
So it says, though it says, don't have sexual intercourse with your father or your mother.
So far, so good. Right. Then you read the end of the sentence and it says, she is your mother,
do not uncover her nakedness. And so now you finish the sentence and you're like,
wait a second, but what happened to the father? Didn't we just say the nakedness of your father
and the nakedness of your mother? So what happened? So is it telling us that we're only
talking about the mother? And if you look at, I have the new revised standard translation in
front of me. And they, in order to resolve this problem, they write, oh, it's not the nakedness
of your mother, the nakedness of your father and the nakedness of your mother, which is what it
says in the Hebrew, they say, no, it's the nakedness of your father, which is the nakedness of your
mother, which is not in the Hebrew, the Hebrew just has a regular conjunction there, which,
you know, 99.9 something percent of the cases just means end. So, so, so this is one of the two
places where the, you know, the last few words in the sentence force us to say, oh, I guess I
misunderstood. In the beginning, I thought there was a prohibition against intercourse with both
your father and your mother. But now I understand that I guess we were just talking about the mother.
I must have misunderstood. That's, that's one of the two. And then this happens one other time.
It happens where it says,
in verse 14, the nakedness of the brother of your father, you shall not uncover. So you're like,
okay, that's prohibiting intercourse with your paternal uncle. Got it. And then you read the
clarification and it says, do not approach his wife for she is your aunt.
And so again, you're like, okay, I thought it was saying, don't have intercourse
with your uncle. But I guess what it meant was that having intercourse with your aunt is like
having intercourse with your uncle or maybe this idiom of uncovering nakedness doesn't mean what it
sounds like. It means, you know, and somehow like, again, we end up with this clarification that,
you know, clarifies a way of prohibition. And, and what if we look at these two,
these two cases together, we realize that in both cases, the clarification basically does a way
with a prohibition against male homosexual incestuous intercourse.
Incestuous. Right. So there was a prohibition against intercourse with your father, or maybe it
means penetrating your father, whatever, we don't need to get into that. But there was a prohibition
against some sort of intercourse with your father. In the first half, it sounded like, but then the
second half is like, no, no, no, no, there's only a prohibition against your mother in this, in this
law, not, not your father. And then you thought that you were reading a prohibition against
intercourse with your uncle. But then by the end of the verse, they're like, Oh, no, I misunderstood
it. It just meant your aunt, actually. But in both cases, it's, it's, it seems like some editor
is, is explaining a way is basically deleting by means of clarification to provisions against
intercourse with specific men. And then the question is, why would that be? Why would anyone
feel motivated to say that there are no prohibitions against, you know, incest with your
father or your uncle? Good question. Because it reminds me, and this is taking us elsewhere.
And maybe this is part of a similar source. I don't know which source this might connect to,
but it keeps reminding me about in the situation where Noah and his son, he uncovers his nakedness.
And is this, do you think that that's the most plausible way of reading this particular
in light of this Leviticus law? I mean, that, I have thoughts about that passage. It's a very,
very tricky passage, because on the one hand, when you look at it, sometimes when it talks about
like seeing nakedness, it sounds euphemistic. And other times it sounds like it's not euphemistic,
or it sounds, it sounds like it's talking about different things in different parts of the passage.
Maybe we could just for the viewers quickly recap the passage that you're referring to.
So there's, do you want to do that? Sure. I'm going wherever you're willing to go. I mean,
I think it's relevant in a way. I mean, yeah. And then we can swing back and draw some conclusions
about Leviticus 18 after that. That sounds good. Cool. So I think it's Genesis 11 or 10.
And I think it's in nine. Okay. So say verse 20, starting verse 21.
Or start verse 28 even. Okay. Are you wanting to read it or?
I'm happy to go. Sure. So Noah, man of the land, went and planted a vineyard. He drank
some of the wine and became drunk. And he lay uncovered in his tent. And Ham,
father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father and told his two brothers outside.
So we have here an idiom that's similar to the idiom that we're discussing now in Leviticus 18,
where it says here that Ham saw the nakedness of his father and then told his brothers.
Then it continues and says, Shem and Japheth, his brothers, took a garment. They laid it on both
their shoulders and walked backward and covered the nakedness of their father. Their faces were
turned away and they did not see their father's nakedness. So up until now, it sort of sounds
like we're just, everything's very literal. He just saw his father naked, told his siblings,
and his siblings then covered him up. And then he was no longer naked. But then the next verse
complicates that because it says, when Noah awoke from his wine, he knew what his youngest son
had done to him. He said, Cursed be Canaan, lowest of slaves shall he be to his brothers.
And so you get the impression like something happened. And how could he know anything? I mean,
if all that happened was that his son saw him, that's not something that leaves any sort of
evidence. And it's not really doing at all. And especially in light of passages like ours in
Leviticus 18, where uncovering nakedness seems to be a euphemism for intercourse or sexual
penetration or something like that. You know, some people understand that passage about Noah as
referring to intercourse perhaps. But as I mentioned, it's a very tricky passage because
like depending on which verse you're reading, you get different impressions. And part of that
might have something to do with the composition history of that text and the way that it evolved
itself. But it's good that you brought that up because it does give us some more information
about this idiom and these ideas of uncovering and seeing nakedness as we have in Leviticus 18.
Yeah, that's been a mystery, that whole Noah thing. For many, they're kind of like scratch in
their head. I've heard from theories. So in Leviticus 18, it's not uncle, it's aunt, wink, wink.
It's not dad, it's mom, wink, wink. Like there's definitely something here.
So when it gets to this passage in verse 20, I guess we could draw some conclusions. I'm sorry,
not verse 20, verse 13. If a man goes to bed with a male as one goes to bed with a woman,
the two of them have committed an abomination. They must be put to death. Their blood guilt
is on themselves. Is this factoring into the uncle, mother, father, uncle, aunt scenario?
Exactly. So here's the logical, you know, like the full train of thought. So we saw that we have
these two places in this unit talking about forbidden incestuous unions, that it seems like
someone is trying to delete, in a way, the prohibitions against intercourse between two men.
And you'd have to ask yourself, well, why would anyone want to do that? I mean,
especially if you are opposed to homosexual intercourse, what would possibly possess you to
delete two prohibitions relating to homosexual intercourse? And the key to understanding that
is a principle that is known as the exception proves the rule. But people use that term colloquially
to mean like, oh, here's like a contradiction that doesn't really fit my theory. But it's only one
exception. So the fact that it's just an exception supports the general principle. But that's actually
not what the exception proves the rule means in the technical sense. The technical sense,
it means that the presence of an exception proves the existence of a rule. Okay, so if you were to
see a sign that said no parking weekdays, you could infer from that that parking is permitted
on the weekends, even though it doesn't say that, right? So the fact that there's
a specific prohibition against parking on weekdays tells you that there is a prohibition,
a general prohibition, sorry, I'm getting my two sides of this confused. But if it says no parking
on, you know, from 8pm to 8am, then you can infer that there is parking in the other hours,
no parking on weekdays, you can infer that, right? So there's like a general thing and an
exception. And so by a similar token in our passage here in Leviticus 18, if there's a specific
prohibition against sexual intercourse between a man and his father, someone could infer from that
that there is not a general prohibition against intercourse between any two men.
Good point. So simply put, if there's a clear, if it's going out of its way to say prohibition,
as you say it, to make it simple, sorry, I'm not even on the screen yet, to make it simple,
do not sleep with your mother, do not sleep with your aunt, even if let's go a step further
than say what it's actually saying here. And also don't sleep with your dad or your uncle,
got it? It's really going out of its way to say this, which is incestual. And then all of a sudden
we get this verse that's going, a man sleeping in another man's, you know, bed, blah, blah, blah,
seems generic. It's out of context for the idea of incestual stuff. It doesn't seem like it's a
prohibition against any and all things like this, like you said, right? Park from eight to eight.
But the other eight to eight, it doesn't say you can't.
Exactly. Imagine you had two signs next to each other. One said, you know, no parking
eight p.m., you know, eight a.m. to eight p.m. And the other says no parking any time, right?
Those would, there would be some sort of conflict between them. And so if you have two laws, one
says no sex between men ever. And one says no sex between, you know, closely related men,
then there's some tension there. And so my interpretation of this tension within the
individual verses where it says, you know, don't uncover the nakedness of your father,
actually, I mean, just your mother, don't uncover the nakedness of your uncle, actually, I mean,
your aunt, like the way I understand that is that someone was perturbed by the presence of
specific prohibitions against intercourse between men. And they thought that that could be read to
mean that there's not a blanket prohibition against homosexual intercourse. And that's why
they wanted to get rid of specifically these two prohibitions. And I think that that interpretation
is not not unreasonable. In other words, if it's not, you know, the only possible way that you
could read that list of incestuous unions, but it's a reasonable reading, and you can understand why
someone, especially someone either, you know, the author of the prohibition against all intercourse
between men or someone who's read that and internalized that you can see why they would
want to make some changes to this list of incestuous unions. So the bottom line here is that the very
least the editor of Leviticus 18, who put in those explanations to these laws that said, oh,
you misunderstood the first half of the verse, we weren't actually prohibiting intercourse with
that particular man. That person understood the initial law to sound like it was not prohibiting
homosexual intercourse categorically. Okay, yeah, that's where I was going with that. I thought
that was interesting. If we could, and I don't want to shift topics unless you feel like we've
adequately dealt with this particular one. Go right ahead. Okay. So Genesis, Genesis 19 is a
quite an interesting place to start if that's okay. Yeah. So everyone knows that Sodom and
Gomorrah was full of homosexuals who were lost hungry for these these foreigners who were passing
through the strangers, really their deities, depending on who you're who you're researching,
their Elohim little, they're coming to see Lot and his family. And they're going to just sleep
in the streets and he's going, Hey, dude, you don't want to do that. So I figure it might be good
if I read this out loud for everyone. So two angels came to Sodom in the evening,
while Lot was sitting in the city gates or the city's gateway. When Lot saw them, he got up to
meet them and bowed down with his face toward the ground. He said, here, my lords, please turn
aside to your servant's house, stay the night and wash your feet. Then you can be on your way
early in the morning. No, they replied, we will spend the night in the town square. But he urged
them persistently. So they turned aside with him and entered his house. He prepared a feast for
them, including bread baked without yeast or unleavened bread. And they ate before they could
lie down to sleep. All men both young and old from every part of the city of Sodom, surrounded the
house. They shouted a lot. Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us
so we can take carnal knowledge of them is the way my translation has to work so that we may
know them. Another one says so that we can have sex with them. It just depends on the English
translation. Lot went outside to them, shutting the door behind him. He said, no, my brothers,
don't act so wickedly. Look, I have two daughters and anyone who wants to know in antiquity, you
were supposed to treat. So this is not something we should practice today, bottom line is. But
in the ancient world, this is kind of the way things worked. So he says, you can have my
daughters and do with them as you please, but don't do this to these men. They're under my roof.
They're under my protection. And anyways, I won't have to go any further with that one. I think
everyone knows the gist of the story, but it sounds like they want to have sex with them.
And they they're lust hungry. Are these just a bunch of raving, lust, crazy homosexuals? Or
are we missing the point? Yeah, I think that actually we do often miss the point of that story.
So, you know, the term sodomy is it comes from this story here. And and I think that that is
already a, you know, a certain, you know, it reflects someone missing the point. It's interesting
because in Talmudic terminology, to be a sodomite is it has totally different connotations of sort
of, you know, it's more about being vindictively, ungenerous, I guess, you know, like,
which also comes up here in the same chapter where you see that that lot is trying to be a good host.
And so, so, so, so let's let's talk about that for a moment. So you have a bunch of people saying
explicitly, you know, as explicitly as we could imagine, saying that they want to have intercourse
with these men. Okay, so that's male homosexual intercourse. But then what does lot say about
that? What does the narrator say about that? What are we meant to make of that? And, you know,
if the main issue here, if homosexual intercourse were this, you know, we're a prohibition and
we're considered an abomination and so on, wouldn't you expect a lot to have said something like
you sickos? What's wrong with you? What you want to have sex with these men? Like, what's wrong
with you? Right? You could imagine him saying something like that. You know, if sodomy is this
abomination. But he doesn't say anything in sort, right? He says, no, these people are my guests.
Here, I have two daughters. They're not my guests. They're my property, basically. That's the
the implication. So I have two virgin daughters. So you can do whatever you want with them. And
I'm allowed to offer them to you because they belong to you. So obviously, that's disturbing in a
whole lot of ways. Yeah. As you suggested, and that, you know, and we can put that aside for
the moment, because we're not we're not judging the morality of the text right now. We're just
trying to understand. We're trying to understand it. And I think that it's reasonable to infer
from the fact that the conversation never once, you know, draw never once focuses on the homosexual
nature of their desires. I think that that it's quite likely that that wasn't an issue. And,
you know, so it makes sense, of course, his guests were men, because you wouldn't expect
women to go traveling from city to city. And it makes sense that he offered his daughters
because his unmarried daughters are his property. And, you know, it's different, you know, that
they're gender issues and all these things. But the key here isn't it's okay for you to sleep with
women. It's not okay for you to sleep with men. The point here is you want to mistreat my guests,
and I know I won't have it. And so I think that this story, despite the fact that it's the source
for the term sodomy, actually, if anything tells us that the the author of this text, or at least
the characters in this text, don't perceive homosexual intercourse to be an abomination.
If I may press on getting like what I because I love wanting to find out what it meant when it was
written, divorce it from my own motives at that moment. Of course, I have bias, like when I read
this, I'm like, hell no, you know, like, like, but that's a world we live in now, you know, we
have a different kind of way of viewing almost everything we're reading. So we have to be cautious,
not judge. I mean, you can have your judgments of things after the fact, but I want to first know
what it what was going on. And I'm glad society is the way it is. So the question is, when these
men are being rude, they're ready to mistreat his guests. In what way do you think that was
happening? Like, give us your guests so that we may know them. It does sound like in that instance
that there is some some type of sexual activity, if you take the word know to imply that. And I
guess what is the what is the sin here? It obviously, with what you're saying, it doesn't demand
sexual intercourse with men. It doesn't. That's not what it demands at all. It seems to be a
disrespect toward the guests, like they're all ready to come over and do that. Right. But let me
just clarify. I mean, I while I think that the issue here is this, you know, fundamental disrespect
and mistreatment of the guests, I think that the way that that manifests in this case is sexually,
in other words, they're saying, basically, we want to rape your guests. But his but what is
saying isn't like, you know, it's not rape is bad. First of all, wow, it's not that that homosexuality
is bad, or that homosexual intercourse specifically is bad. It's that these people are my guests,
you will not mistreat them. I mean, let's read the let's read the the passage right in verse
verse seven, what says, I beg you, my brothers, do not act so wickedly. Look, I have two daughters
who have not known a man, let me bring them out to you and do to them as you please. Only do nothing
to me for they have come under the shelter of my roof. So he feels like he has a moral obligation
to protect his guests. And that's what's motivating him here. And the people of Sodom are portrayed
as these, you know, they're portrayed as barbarians who, you know, and so on. But the root or the
central problem with their behavior, at least in the eyes of lot
is that they are demanding demanding to do something to his guests. That's the issue.
It's not gender. It's not the lack of consent. I also have a huge red flag as to why what you're
saying makes a lot of sense. And I mean, this is me maybe anachronistically, anachronistically
projecting my own morals. But let's try not to do that. Like you talk about the whole mother,
father thing, right? Well, right in the same story, as soon as they're destroyed, here he is
with his two daughters. So it's like, and they don't, you know what always got me as a Christian
fundamentalist was like, I would always like couldn't see how the Bible didn't condemn that.
Like it never was like, I can't believe you lot. Like an angel didn't appear and go, no, no, no,
don't worry. Well, miraculously have your daughters have babies. Like, no, like they get him drunk.
They go into their father. They want it's like they take turns each night doing this. And it just
is like, what the heck? And it never condemned it. So if that's going on, and it's not really saying,
Oh, I can't believe you slept with your two daughters. Then what you're saying makes a
it could make a lot of sense as to why it's like not condemning like, Oh, I can't believe a man
would want to sleep with other men. No, it seems like there's this guest and being rude. And
you're literally crossing boundaries about how how a righteous man should treat his guest.
That seems to be the moral of the story is like, how you should protect your guest. It seems that
that might be it more so than when you go into a city and everyone wants to have sex with your
guests, you know, those horrible lusters, I can't but it doesn't seem that that's the point.
Right. Right. Yeah. And there's no question that that story about about his daughter is is
something that, you know, makes a lot of sense to read in the light of the passage that we just read.
Some people see it as a sort of in either personal or divine retribution
for what he, you know, for what was offering to do here, whether that that's the cases may be
beyond the scope of our conversation now. And I'm not sure that I have a completely,
you know, a confident view about that. But it's interesting just, you know, that that passage
about the two daughters of lot becoming pregnant from from their father. It's interesting in the
light of the passage that we read earlier in about about Noah and his sons, because in both cases,
we have wine and potentially intercourse take place that, you know, is in some sort of haze that,
right. So we have, if we understand that what happened in the story of Ham is not just seen,
but perhaps intercourse, then it's interesting to to read that in the light of
this passage about the two daughters, because maybe there's some sort of motif that, you know,
drinking drinking wine leads to bad sexual things taking place. So that's an interesting point. And
I've also heard, as said, maybe you can tell me your thoughts of this, that, you know, we have
multiple source material here. Potentially, this might be the some some tradition of an
end of the world idea. I throw that out there to say because lot did like, after this happens,
they think there's no one else out there. It sounds like in the narrative, just like Noah has to
start over and repopulate the earth. It sounds like this is a repopulation. And it's like a last straw
scenario. My daughters must have my children, because this is the end of that world. And we've
got to repopulate the earth. I've heard this saying before. The strange thing is, it's by fire
instead of water. But there seems to be a motif even through the Pentateuch. If you look at some
of these sources, how does Israel come out of the Exodus? Cloud by day and fire by night. Like,
it makes me kind of wonder just thinking about it. If there's this motif, and if this is just
another tradition that the redactors made narrative forms of showing common themes,
like you're talking about. And this is just a different destruction, so to speak. I don't know.
Yeah, I mean, it's explicit in the story of Lot's daughters that like they're motivated by a desire
to repopulate the earth. It's just like we're meant to understand that they were just wrong.
It's a funny thing. It's like, oh, they didn't realize that actually the whole world wasn't
destroyed. And the story seems to be serving a few different purposes at once. And that's why
it's really tricky, because it's also an etiology. In other words, it's a story that explains the
names of two nations there. Two nations Amun and Moab. And this story explains that the name Moab
means from father. So like the daughter slept with her father, and that's why they're called
Moab, right? And so the story is serving a lot of different purposes. And so it's a very rich
and complex little narrative. Yeah, why didn't you guys just walk a couple hundred yards
in the opposite direction and find out Abraham's right down the street? And then you're all good.
No, it's funny. It's an interesting narrative. Our final point of reference we've already touched
on is the whole Leviticus 2013. And how would you deal with that? Since Leviticus 18 is clearly
indicating father, mother, aunt, and uncle, what is going on in Leviticus 20? So someone might go,
yeah, but you try to get out of that one, you know, I'm just being funny when I say it.
But Leviticus 20 verse 13 says, if a man goes to bed with a male as one goes to bed with a woman,
the two of them have committed an abomination, they must be put to death. Their blood guilt is on
themselves. And this is where like you have these fundamentalists with radical signposts
on the side of the roads who are saying like, homosexuality deserves death and punitive, like
they really want to see people who are gay die. And that's, that's horrible. But yeah, if you don't
mind. Look, so it is unambiguous, right? There's no question that, and then some people have tried
to interpret this verse in a way that, you know, means something other than, you know,
the practitioners of male homosexual intercourse should be put to death. But it's inescapable,
in my opinion. And, you know, that's just that's something that's in the Bible that
really conflicts with modern ideas of morality held by, let's say, most, most enlightened,
by enlightened people. So this is just like Leviticus 1822, which also is unambiguous in saying
that male homosexual intercourse is an abomination here. We have, you know, even one step beyond
that it's telling us not only that it's an abomination, it says almost the exact same words,
you know, it is an abomination and also they should both be put to death. So this is a verse
prohibiting male homosexual intercourse, calling it an abomination and saying that it's punishable
by death, both, you know, like, even if it means, you know, you know, even if lying with another
man refers to one of the two parties, it doesn't matter because it says explicitly that both of
them shall be put to death. And so this is what I was referring to in the beginning when I was
saying that the Bible contains many different ideas, sometimes contradictory ideas. And in this
case, I think that that we see a, on the one hand, in these verses, a prohibition against
male homosexual intercourse and the expression of the idea that this is a capital offense,
elsewhere we get the impression that different biblical authors thought other things. And I
don't think that we can say, you know, that we shouldn't erase either of these, we should be
aware of them. And we should, you know, we should say, look, the Bible contains this thing,
and it contains this other thing, and it contains these contradictory things. And as long as we
don't just read the Bible and, you know, take it, take whatever verse we find as, as the Gospels,
so to speak, something that we need to act upon today, then that's okay, these are historical
texts, and they were written by multiple authors who had different ideas. So some people misinterpreted
my analysis of Leviticus 18 as an attempt to, you know, to say that the true Bible doesn't
depose homosexual intercourse, you know, that I found like the real thing, and, you know, the
thing that's like more holy or more, and that's not at all what, you know, what, what I think that
I'm doing. I think that I was just showing that there are two different ideas in that are reflected
in the same chapter. And the earlier idea was, was that homosexual intercourse might not be
an abomination. The later idea is that it is. And that's, is just two different ideas at two
different points in Israelite history. And if it were flipped, it wouldn't make that much of a
difference. You know, sometimes texts evolve in a direction that, you know, we today find, you know,
lovely and reassuring. Sometimes they evolve in the opposite direction. And, you know, some people,
you can take from that whatever you want. But we shouldn't, we shouldn't suppress the things
that we don't like in the Bible. We should look at them, you know, squarely and say, all right,
well, here's something in the Bible that conflicts with my morality. And that's why I don't get my
morality just uncritically from the Bible. And that's a great point. I know early on,
you have a situation where you could own an Israelite even. And then later, you're not allowed to,
which is good. I mean, it's in a step in the right direction where it's like, they're trying to
do something. I mean, even the poor foreigners, you know, poor strangers. But either way, the point
is, it seems like they're starting to treat themselves a little better than they were already
doing. Like you could own an Israelite. Now you can't. I think that's progress. It's trying to go
in a progressive way. And you got to give it some credit for it being as old as it is and in the
ancient world. So I definitely do that. And I was going to say there was one court case. I saw this
on Facebook a while back. I don't, I couldn't find it. I was just going to pull it up, maybe show
you. There's a lady debating this Southern from the South in America. We've got some pretty hardcore
fundamentalists, even in political power. And this guy is a judge. It looks like he's like a
Supreme Court judge or something. And she's trying to explain homosexuality, like, like, you know,
how you're trying to set up laws against them. Not that like, this wasn't even a debate over like,
should they be allowed to marry and stuff. This is like, like it's illegal to practice that kind
of stuff. And this is like in the 80s. And anyway, she goes, okay, well, let me play another scenario
for you, your honor. Say a husband and a wife are in their own privacy of their bedroom,
and he slips and it goes in the wrong hole. And he got all like intense. And he said,
then he better get his aim right. Like, like, what? This is a husband and wife in their own
privacy of their home. And you, you bet your, you know what, that guy probably is going to church
that Sunday listening to this stuff. And like, you get what I'm trying to say, I'm not trying to
knock the whole, the whole thing. But that, like you said, applying these things to our current
context is just ridiculous, to be honest with you. Right. And, and, and I think that's the most
important thing is that, you know, we need to look critically, you know, at the Bible, but not
not look at it like a monolith. We need to be aware of the different layers and the different
voices. We need to be aware of the different interpretations throughout history. And then
we can decide what where we position ourselves, whether it's anywhere along
these long and winding roads, or maybe not even, you know, maybe we don't think that any of the
positions that have been expressed at any point throughout the biblical history and the history
of its interpretation, you know, appeal to us morally. And I think that that's, that's really
the key, you know, and sometimes the trend is, you know, that things move in the right direction.
Sometimes the trend is that things move in the wrong direction. Sometimes they move one way
and then turn around. And we just need to look with clear eyes and, and see what's, what's happening
and not, and not just find a verse that, you know, open the Bible, read a verse and say, okay, you
know, well, that's the truth. Great point. And I think too often we've done that. So if you don't
mind, if you don't mind, explain to us real quick the dismembered Bible cutting and pasting Scripture
and antiquity. What is that book about? And then we'll ask about your second book. And then
thank you so much. I appreciate it. My pleasure. So yeah, my book, the dismembered Bible,
is about the methods of biblical editing in antiquity. So how did the Bible's editors work?
And I'm looking at that question, not just from the literary perspective. So, you know, people
for a long time have been talking about, you know, different documents being combined and different,
you know, being compiled, or, or there being different layers and supplements and so on.
That's a sort of literary perspective. And what I was very curious about was the material aspect.
So let's say I'm an editor working in, you know, in ancient Israel. How do I edit my texts? So let's
say I'm editing the flood story, and I have two different versions of the flood narrative,
and I want to compile them. How do I do that? And you might imagine that the way that you do it is
like an East ride. You have an empty scroll, and you have a read and ink, and you're reading
other scrolls, and you're just copying a verse from here and a verse from there, and you're
writing in your text. And that's certainly something that's theoretically possible. But
the conclusion that I drew in this book is that in, in many cases, including the flood narrative
that I just mentioned, that does not appear to be how the Bible's editors work. But rather,
they engaged in literal cut and paste. So the way I think that the flood narrative was edited
is that there were two scrolls, each of which contained a version of the flood narrative.
And someone cut them up with the knife, and then assembled the different pieces of these two stories
into a new narrative, and then, you know, glued them on. And I think that one of the ways that we
can infer this is that occasionally there are mistakes, you know, people, no matter, you know,
how careful you are, you're going to make mistakes. I just wrote these two books. I can tell you
they're full of mistakes. I have, you know, I'm a pretty pedantic guy, and I went over the text
many, many times, but there are mistakes. And whenever someone makes a mistake, it's a clue,
because different people make different mistakes in different circumstances. And so,
if I'm typing, I'll make one sort of mistake. And if I'm writing by hand, I'll make a different
sort of mistake. And if I'm transcribing something that I hear that can lead to a certain type of
mistake, and so on. And I think that there are mistakes in the Bible that are characteristic
of this method, cutting and pasting, and that are not easily explained as the outcome of a more
sort of traditional scribal approach to editing. So that's that book. That's awesome. So what about
your, the valediction of Moses, a proto biblical book? Can you tell us what that's about? Yeah,
sure. So that's, you know, something that's, I think, attracted even more controversy than my
work on on Leviticus 18. So the valediction of Moses is the name that I've given to a literary
work that is that that appears in certain manuscript fragments that a man by the name
Moses Wilhelm, Wilhelm Shapira tried to sell to, you know, the British Museum and others
in the 1800s. And these manuscript fragments were deemed forgeries at the time. And almost
everyone since has considered them to be forgeries. And they've also, you know, like since that verdict,
the actual manuscripts are lost. And what I argue in this, in this book, and there's,
for those who are interested in Google, the validation of Moses, I think you'll, you might
find an article in The New York Times about this. I think that the these manuscripts are not only
authentic, but actually, they contain something that we've never seen before. And that is a
proto biblical book. So these manuscripts contain some sort of text that looks a fair bit like
the Book of Deuteronomy, but with all sorts of differences, and it's much shorter.
And some people, whether they think it's, you know, real or fake, you know, most people would say
that this text is an abridgment of the Book of Deuteronomy. And in this book, I do a sort of
philological analysis, among other things, of this text and compare it to the Book of Deuteronomy and
other parts of the Bible, and show, I think, that the validation of Moses that these, that these,
um, that these leather fragments that appeared in the 1800s actually contained an older version
of the Book of Deuteronomy that was actually quite radically different from the versions that we have
in our Bibles. And so that's an extremely exciting thing, because, you know, we've never seen an
earlier version, like a really dramatically different, earlier version of a book or a source text,
you know, you mentioned the documentary hypothesis. And so there are these ideas about
different sources. And so this is like finding one of the sources of the Bible, or maybe without
the like, it is that, I think. So this is controversial. And some of my colleagues,
you know, feel strongly one way and others feel strongly the other way. And imagine it'll take
a little bit of time for the dust to settle. But if anyone's interested in reading that book, it's
actually available for free as a PDF. It's open access. So I encourage the viewers to download
it and decide for themselves what they think. Thank you so much. This has been a wonderful
interview. And I'm super excited to hear what you guys think down below on this hot topic. As you
know, it's a tough one, especially living in today's time where people are trying to keep
book, they want to believe every word that it says, they don't like to cherry pick, let's just say,
which everybody does, no matter who you are, in some way, shape or form. It seems like that.
So make sure you guys drop a comment, go down in the description, get his books,
and hopefully we can have more, maybe have you come on and we could talk about some of your other
works. Maybe after I've read some of this work, we could talk about piecing together, you know,
how they did these things and get down into the nitty gritty. So sounds great. All right. Awesome.
Well, thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen. Don't forget, subscribe, do all that good stuff.
Patron has all this stuff early and we are MythVision.
