Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor Elaine Pagels, the Garden of Eden story for Gnostics is seemingly different
than the one for the Orthodox view.
The serpent doesn't appear to be the bad guy, in some sense he's actually giving them
enlightenment.
And I'll elaborate real quick and then just have you take over.
I always had this question in my head when God says do not eat of the tree and the day
you do you will surely die.
And as a literalist I'm going did they die that day, I didn't think they died that day.
So did the serpent tell the truth and did God lie, you see what I'm saying?
I do very much.
Well first of all there's no one way to interpret that story.
That is such a provocative story, I mean just think of it, it's a very short story, it's
about a man, a woman, a tree, a talking snake, a prohibition, they're naked and then they're
not ashamed and then what is that about?
It's a very, it's a Rorschach test kind of, you know, you can read into it a thousand
different things, cartoons, you can read into it all kinds of work in paintings.
It's absolutely extraordinary for the imagination.
So you are asking the question that is in one of the famous texts discovered with the
secret gospels called the Testimony of Truth and the author was saying wait a minute, what
is that story about?
When God says on the day you shall eat of it you shall surely die, they don't die.
The serpent says your eyes will be opened and you will know good and evil.
And what happens?
The serpent was right, God didn't say what was right.
So that author goes on to say well then how are we supposed to understand the serpent?
Then the author is a Christian, he goes to the first chapter of the Gospel of John that
talks about how Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness and the same way the serpent
on a staff is lifted up, the Son of God will be lifted on the cross.
So he says well who's the serpent then?
The serpent is actually Christ because he's speaking the truth and the one who says you
will die on that day is not the right God, it's a small version of God.
So they were asking the same questions you are, the story is not to be taken literally.
And so there are so many ways people play with that story, that's why I wrote that
book, Adam, Even the Serpent, because when Jesus spoke about it, it was because he was
asked about divorce, Rabbi has read it in a very practical way about what do we mean
by marriage, what do we mean by divorce, what's allowed, what isn't allowed, we're talking
on that level and then others read it as a symbolic story, Irenaeus read it a different
way, about the beginning of sin and so Augustine read it as the beginning of original sin
which is a rather extravagant and unusual way to read it, which is now the basis of
a lot of Catholic and Protestant teaching.
That story has been played in more ways than any musical set of notes.
See I like comparative mythology because one of the things personally that is my personal
interest is I want to know what it originally meant, I love finding out how people use it
but what it originally meant to me tells me more of the source, like what was the point,
the polemic, what was the intention, the original audience, whatever it might have been, I want
to know that because we all use things to our own personal context, for example you
open the newspaper there's probably an evangelical right wing Christian who's interpreting the
book of Revelation or some book or prophecy in the Bible that say look what's going on
with Israel right now, look at what's going on in the bombing, you know the end is near
blah blah blah, but it's like what did it mean when it was written and oh did you want
to?
Well that's a very good question and it's hard to answer because this story was probably
told 3,000 years ago that's when it was written we think and if you ask a rabbi well they'll
say well the story is written to say you're a human being and you have different impulses,
you have what they call the evil impulse and the good impulse within you and what I want
to teach you as a rabbi is you should obey God, you should obey Torah which is the way
God teaches us how to live, it's a way of life that is life affirming and productive
and will lead you in the right path, you shouldn't disobey Torah, the word of God.
So the story is about Adam and Eve and they're given an instruction by God and Adam does
not obey God and the result is suffering, that's why we suffer, that's why we die, that's
why there's oppression in the world, that's why men labor with the earth and suffer in
agricultural labor and women labor in giving birth, everybody suffers and that's because
we disobey God but if you follow Torah that's a story about following one impulse or the
other and we want you to get the message that you should follow the right way and obey
God.
So I think that's what the story, that's the most original cast I could put on it.
I was going to say one of the things that I was coming across that made me think where
did this come from was looking at the mess of the Tamian, the Ugaritic, you know the
better, the public.
Oh where does that come from?
You mean literally and culturally.
Yes and I wonder because we know Israel, we know that they were bumping into Sumerian,
they were captured by Babylonian if you will, the Babylonians and then of course the Assyrians
and then you had the Medes and the Persians and so there's all these backdrop stories
that they have, their mythology, their origin stories and you know Epic of Gilgamesh comes
into the Noah's.
Sure.
Like there's so many connections to make with these comparative mythologies.
Well when you talk about you know what is, how did they originate literally and culturally
I think most people would say the stories of creation in the Hebrew Bible, the two of
them, the first one you know the story of the creation in seven days is a response to
the Babylonian creation story and which speaks about the powers of the universe, the sun
god and the moon god and the Israelites say no.
We worship a being that created what you call god, the sun is not a god, the moon is not
a god, they are lights in the sky that are god made much bigger than your gods.
Your gods are just things, our god is a transcendent reality so this is a way that Hebrew people
responded to the Babylonian stories and sort of it's a one-upmanship to say our god is
much bigger than your gods, your gods are just inanimate beings, our god is a transcendent
reality.
And that's what made me think there might be something there that we can clean and learn
that doesn't get looked at in orthodox circles whether Jewish, orthodoxy or Christian they
don't care about that, they don't really see how that might matter and to me that does
matter, it plays a huge role in these narratives.
It does and one thing it does Derek which I think is significant in the 21st century
is it teaches that the human being is not part of nature.
That is nature is nature and nature is things, it is rocks and mountains and stars and planets
and sun and moon and we are above that, that's all created for us.
We Adam and Eve are humans and they're made in the likeness of god and they're told
to dominate the world and subdue it.
And that has a legacy of saying we are not really part of this which in the 21st century
we're looking at it and saying wait a minute, maybe we are part of it and dominating and
subduing it has led to destruction of the environment that we need to survive.
So there are people now who speak about conservation, who speak about preserving the climate and
the earth so far as we can and they go back to the Genesis story and say we are caretakers
not meant to be masters of the earth which has created a domineering mentality toward
nature but we are meant to be participants and caretakers.
So they're trying to transform the interpretation of it for a society that should care for the
earth and not try to simply monetize it or dominate it.
There's so much there too when you start looking at these connections to the Sumerian
or Ugaritic and stuff.
There's the idea of gods creating man to work for them because they were working their butts
off and they were like hey we don't want to do this anymore to Marduk and Marduk said
okay I'm going to make man, makes man, then they're too loud and noisy so he sends a flood
and then you have the biblical explanation for why a flood.
But the gods that you speak about are the natural world and that's a very different
world than the one that the Hebrews chose to interpret.
Right, yeah because they had the, there's the, well Deuteronomy 32 and then Psalms talks
about this whole, there's a council of gods but it's still not taking, it's not an earthly
thing so to speak, it definitely transcends which is the difference I think.
The god of, the Hebrew Bible creates the world but the god of Mesopotamia is the sun
god that is the forces of nature are themselves the divine powers.
So it's very different and the Greek and Roman religion is that too you know.
Makes me think of Prometheus too like the whole story Dr. Price that I interview all
the time he talks about how you have this story where Prometheus and Zeus and he makes
man of course and he makes them for sacrifice so they could sacrifice to him for food.
And Prometheus tricks him one day and gives him like a jar with full of fat and guts nasty
with a top layer of sirloin if you will.
Here you go and then he takes the good stuff and puts a fat layer on top to make it look
like he has the guts because that's what he would always get and he tricks Zeus and Zeus
gets mad and now he curses Prometheus and mankind and it's like what?
This sounds too much like another origin story.
Right.
It's just I like the comparative story.
Well it is fun and I do too I work with that I teach a course called God and Satan, Goddesses
and Monsters and we study Gilgamesh and the Babylonian creation story.
I've got to visit you on one day I'm going to do it right now but really dive into this.
It is fun.
