And so the idea is, Catholic priests in the Middle Ages had unique sets of powers.
Well, if you could throw a demon out of someone, with the right evocations and invocations
and incantations, and couldn't you also bind those demons?
And if you could bind them, you could also control them.
And what could you control them to do?
Well, what do demons know?
They know all kinds of weird secrets.
They have all kinds of powers.
At what point do you cross the line to making deals with demons?
At what point do you cross the line from controlling them to maybe they're controlling you?
And this is what Augustine always famously says, that anytime anyone thinks they're controlling a demon,
the demon's just playing them, and eventually they're going to kill their soul or what have you.
Priests, basically ostensibly, were learning to bind and control demons.
Now clearly, you don't go to seminary and get that lesson.
And you definitely go to seminary and teach that lesson.
And we know of at least a couple of people who skirted that line and they got burned.
Czechos d'Escoli is a famous example in the 14th century.
They were watching the Pythagoreans' belief that reality was number.
What everything around you is actually just numbers.
And one of their members actually discovered irrational numbers.
And this so devastated the Pythagoreans that they assassinated them.
It was a cult.
So they killed a guy over his discovery of irrational numbers.
They did not want the idea that the universe could be in any way irrational.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm the host, Eric Lambert, and the guest I have on today is going to blow my mind,
including yours.
I'm not making this up.
Dr. Justin Sledge, and he has a YouTube channel, Esoterica.
We'll get there.
Welcome to MythVision.
Thank you, Derek.
I really appreciate you having me on, looking forward to our conversation, which I think
will get a little weird, but good weird.
Well, thank you.
I really do appreciate you coming on.
I checked out your YouTube channel just for everybody who's interested.
Let me pop that up so they can go and subscribe, hit that subscribe button.
Make sure you hear that bell ding, if you will.
That way, you're notified every time he drops a video.
I promise you, I promise you, if you watch these videos, any of these videos, you're
going to fall in love.
You're going to go, I learned so much.
It's just full of it.
I mean, I watched two full videos today, and I was like, okay, I know where I'm binge-watching
when I get an opportunity.
This is a YouTube channel I want to go to.
Can you tell us a little bit more about your YouTube channel?
Sure.
It's a place, one of the few places actually on the internet that I know of, with a few
exceptions, that I create content on the academic study of esotericism.
I know we're going to get a little bit into what esotericism means, but sort of a wide
range of things.
You can see some of the curated playlists there on alchemy, hermetic philosophy, Gnosticism,
Kabbalah, magic, but it's all being done from an academic scholarly viewpoint.
We don't deal with conspiracy theories, or I'm the ascended master who has all the secrets,
and if you just pay me, I'll tell you how to get a girlfriend or whatever.
It's the academic study of esotericism.
We really range all the way back to the ancient Near East through the late classical period.
It covers a wide range of periods.
Yeah, it's one of the few channels on the internet that covers the academic study of
Western esotericism.
I can echo that this channel is worth watching, trust me.
Go check it out.
He also has a personal website.
Who's this young stud right here on this page?
That was me on my wedding day, if you believe that.
Wow, man, the beard is awesome.
You also have the Patreon.
I hope anyone who watches his videos, just so you know, once you get on there, do you
offer anything?
What are you offering with the Patreon?
So the main thing on Patreon is you'll get direct access, basically, to me in terms
of things like one-on-one study, and you'll get early access to videos, you'll get to
vote on future videos.
We just have a really cool community of folks who are just a really wide range of everyone
from occult practitioners, people who really, this is their worldview, all the way to skeptics
who are just interested in this academically, and it's a really cool place to have a conversation
between those parties.
And also, if you're interested in studying this stuff more deeply, we have private hangouts
and study sessions and things like that.
So kind of typical Patreon stuff, but pretty untypical content, I think, under the hood.
So in that way, I think folks might benefit from that.
And also, it's just an opportunity to support the work of making content that is basically
unavailable at the university level in a scholarly way.
You can't take classes on this stuff in most universities, and it's one of the few places
online where I'm able to put content out given the academic specialty that I have.
So it's also just supporting the work of making things like alchemy and the occult, knowledge
about that stuff accessible, because most of what you would see online is, let's call
it really uneven.
Let's call it really uneven.
Well, I must say, all of that is down in the description, so be sure to check it out.
Dr. Sledge, I'm going to try and call you Dr. here, because that's what I usually do,
but I almost want to say Justin, because I feel so close.
Yeah, Justin's totally fine.
The Dr. stuff is great for formal stuff, but at the end of the day, I'm just some guy that
makes weird videos for the internet.
Well, these weird videos are what drew me to start my channel.
And so I just want to mention that when I got into this before I started MythVision,
I found an attraction to esoteric thinking or at least alternative interpretive models,
astrology, understanding how that might connect with, you name it, are these stories really
astrological rather than literal historical?
What are the meanings?
Because my interpretations wasn't literal anymore.
I started to find the Bible meaning something else, maybe.
Long story short, I ended up in a situation where I ended up finding sacred geometry,
and I wanted to get into that and find out, like, is there something going on with sacred
geometry?
There's a lot of mathematics and things that play a role.
I think that ties into some of the things we might discuss today, but that's what got
me drawn.
And there's a channel called Sacred Geometry Decoded.
Don't know if you've ever heard of it.
I haven't know.
No, I haven't heard of it.
Well, that's where I started, like, talking to this guy, and I just started MythVision.
I was just, like, digging my way out.
The question is, what is esotericism?
And if you don't mind, take us into it.
Yeah.
So in esotericism, we can think about a kind of dichotomy within religion and philosophy
where there are the exoteric teachings of a religion or a philosophy, right?
So that's what gets taught to the Hoi Pah Loi.
That's what gets broadcast to the masses.
So that's the exoteric thinking.
Right.
That's what, yeah.
That's what all the normies get, right?
But in the interior of many of these ancient schools, for instance, in ancient Greece or
ancient Egypt, there were secret teachings that were only available to folks who were
initiated into those circles.
And there was, in many of these ancient schools, a pledge to silence, that you had to remain
silent.
And the fact the word esotericism or mystery actually has the word silence kind of built
into it.
And so the expectation was that you would be initiated into a private circle and you'd
be taught the true deeper meaning of either religious texts, things like Hesiod's, origin
of creation, or the Bible, or what have you.
And so the esoteric is this hidden inner dimension of philosophy, of religion, and things like
that.
And so what we think of, and we think about this in a broad way when we think about sort
of Western esotericism in general, is we kind of formulate it as either repressed forms
of thought.
So this would be things like magic or alchemy, or things that have been lost or rejected
as wisdom.
So this would be something like astrology, perhaps Gnosticism was ultimately rejected
as heterodox.
And so what we have is kind of a basket, you know, a kind of loose fitting basket, a basket
nonetheless, of arcane things from history.
This would cover a wide range of things from alchemy, Kabbalah, mysticism, magic, the occult.
Astrology gets also grouped in there, and theosophy is another thing that gets grouped
in there as well.
So in some ways, Western esotericism is the grab bag that captures all of that repressed
thought in practice, and also things that have been rejected as thought in practice.
And so Western esotericism captures all of that.
And so on my channel, we kind of go through a circuit of, you know, there'll be an alchemy
video, there'll be a magic video, there'll be, and we, you know, we'll look at things
like medieval necromancer's manuals, and we'll look at how exactly one practiced, for instance,
demonic or black magic in the Middle Ages.
But again, from a academic point of view, I'm not going to teach you how to summon demons.
I don't think that's right.
Do with that at your own risk.
Yeah.
So a little bit about your background as we get into this, you are a PhD.
You have, you're an expert when it comes to this particular milieu, this little, this
little psychist of ideas, if you will.
What is your personal background, just so that people understand where you're coming
from?
Because they're probably seeing the beard, and they're saying, this guy's like really
believing in this, literally, and this guy's a cobalist, he's a rabbi or something.
Right.
So I'm not a rabbi.
And it wouldn't be a problem if you were, I'm just saying, I don't know, I think I say
this, that religious people do work on religion sometimes really well, and sometimes really
badly.
And sometimes non-religious people do really good work on religion, and sometimes they
do really bad work.
I think that those two things don't imply each other.
But yeah, I have a PhD in philosophy, and I have an advanced degree, Dr. Rondis, in Western
as a Terrorism.
So my focus in my academic career is this sort of, this batch of ideas, this batch of
strange bundle of things.
So unlike many people who study Western as a Terrorism, I study it from the philosophical
angle.
Most people are historians, and so they study it as a piece of history.
I tend to be more interested in the ideas that undergird it.
How did someone come to these conclusions, and how do they argue for these beliefs?
So I'm much more interested in that angle of the history, I suppose.
In the continued existence, there's still people out there practicing magic.
But to make it very clear, I'm not a practitioner of any esoteric occult belief system.
I'm just a civilian.
I happen to be a religious Jewish person of a certain type, a certain strange type, and
I know I look like I'm a kharadi or whatever, or very religious.
And I would consider myself religious, but I would not consider myself religious in an
orthodox sense of it.
I actually belong to the Reconstructionist movement in Judaism, and I'm for folks out
there who know something about Reconstructionism.
I'm philosophically very aligned with Rabbi Mordecai Kaplan of Blessed Memory.
So that's my go-to Rebbe, is Mordecai Kaplan.
And so he had a very peculiar form of Judaism.
He was excommunicated, I think.
So you're not having fun until you get kicked out.
Yeah, you're not.
I've been excommunicated.
We finally, you know, we're getting somewhere.
Yeah, you know, if you get kicked out, you're having fun.
So you're doing something.
You're pissing someone off.
You're doing something right.
Well, thank you for giving us that background.
You didn't have to, but I really appreciate that.
As far as esotericism goes, talking about these various tools that are being used by
humans, how far back can you talk about its origins as far as we know, recorded wise, that
this comes up?
Where does it start?
And how far back does this begin that we know of?
Yeah, so it's a great question.
And it seems very likely that it probably goes back before there was civilization.
It's very likely that there was always a case where the local shaman would have certain
kinds of things he would tell the population, but of course, the shamans themselves had
secret information, for instance, how to travel to the spirit realm or what have you.
So I suspect that that insider outsider esotericism, exotericism divide has probably existed as
long as there's been technologies that people wanted to keep secret or at least keep close
to their chest, so to speak.
But the main place that we see it really beginning to emerge as a kind of institutional way of
passing knowledge along is actually in ancient Greece, where we have these mystery religions
in which you have to be initiated in and then you're told the mysteries and you're sworn
to secrecy.
All the people didn't often keep the secrecy.
Alcibiades famously leaked some of the Elunissian mysteries and was much, much hated for that.
We also know, for instance, that other philosophical schools like Plato school, there seems to be
pretty good evidence that Plato taught one thing in public and then taught something
else in private.
So yeah, we have these secret teachings of Plato that he alludes to and he hints at and
we're fairly confident they really existed.
What they were is a lot.
There's a lot of debate about them.
And so what we have are these, again, this sort of what you tell the crowd and what's
going on on the inside, and that seems to be something that develops primarily in the
ancient Greek environment, but I'm sure it existed in other cultures as well.
Anywhere there's a priestly caste who has a unique connection to the gods and you don't
have it because you're just an unclean, normal person, that's an insider-outsider thing.
And you can even see this, I think one of the more interesting examples that's emerged
recently is, for instance, in the Dead Sea Scrolls, it's very clear that some of the Dead
Sea Scrolls are not only meant for the elite, but they're actually written in a cryptic
script.
They're actually encoded so that literally, even if you read Hebrew, you could not read
them by looking at them because they're literally encoded.
And there's a small collection of encrypted, in fact, there's three different codes that
we've discovered in the Dead Sea Scrolls, where clearly they're not only trying to prevent
outsiders from understanding their texts, but they're encoding them so that even insiders
can only have limited access to them.
So I think that this is a pattern, you know, the Church of Latter-day Saints has this very
strong insider-outsider dimension where you have to be brought into the temple and things
like that.
So I think it goes back really far, maybe back even before history, but certainly it
becomes institutionalized in the ancient Greek setting, and we see that kind of thing perpetuating
itself all the way through the late classical period, and it survives till now.
I mean, one can think of an organization, for instance, like the Freemasons, in which
one has to be invited in, and then one undergoes various kinds of initiation processes in order
to be revealed the various secrets of things, of Freemasonry or other kinds of occult societies
that have existed and still do exist.
It's really interesting, your point as well, put, you know, we see that with the inner holy
of holies, where only the priests can go and touch and see and stuff like that.
Yeah, there seems to be this at least a proto-version of what developed really well over time.
Do you think that Christianity, in the earliest sense, comes out of something like this?
There are people who try to argue, for example, that it may come from mystery cults.
I think that early institutional Christianity certainly wanted to be able to create an insider
outsider division.
And I think baptism was the initiation.
It was the, that's how you transitioned in into this inner circle.
And so I think that, yeah, I think that they, in many ways, they structured their religion
a bit like a mystery religion, such that you would get access to the inner teachings, inner
salvation through the initiation of baptism, which is, again, a really interesting move
on the part of early Christianity, where this ritual, the mikvah ritual, right, the immersion
ritual, which was common in the ancient Jewish world, was transformed to become the centerpiece
of the initiatory aspect of Christianity.
And then only after that, that you could, you know, enjoy the Eucharistic host and become
part of the institution of Christianity.
So certainly it had an, it had an inner, an inner, it had an insider outsider division,
to be sure.
And of course, other forms of Christianity took that to even greater extents, we can
think of, for instance, the Gnostics, for whom it seems very clear that they, that they
did not teach their teachings to the outside world at all and reserve them exclusively
for the, the elect that they felt were capable of receiving them.
In fact, many Gnostics actually believe, the Valentinians, for instance, believed that
the, that human beings were just inherently divided and some people just couldn't receive
the mysteries and some people could.
And so, and that way it was hyperelitist, I think, in a way that even proto-Orthodox
Christianity wasn't.
Yeah, you, you've talked about a lot of this stuff in your videos that I want everybody
to go and check out.
You know, someone brought this to my attention.
I don't know why we're, why we're in the Christian bubble for a second.
And I mentioned that, and there are scholars with various views, so, you know, I might
have an opinion this week and next week, something else is convincing or something else.
That's just the kind of data we're dealing with, with New Testament studies.
But that Mark might reflect a Marcianite or even a Gnostic idea, I mean, he, he thanks
God that he hasn't revealed these things to anyone.
He's glad God's hiding them from others.
He speaks in parables.
He doesn't want them to know the secrets or to even know what he's saying.
There's even, they're asking for signs.
He's not giving them signs.
He's keeping it completely exclusive to his inner group, and even the inner group doesn't
get it.
Doesn't get it.
Yeah.
That's, yeah.
And this is what makes Mark famous, I think, in many ways.
Of course, it's the earliest in the, in the synoptics.
And it also portrays Jesus as a kind of reluctant Messiah who's not quite really, certainly,
he certainly doesn't want to be known, right, that he's the Messiah, and maybe even a reluctant
Messiah at that.
But yeah, I mean, I think that Mark clearly has the idea that the teachings of Jesus were
reserved for a very tiny group of people, and that the parables, right, the Jesus would
teach in parables, would teach something else to his inner circle.
That's clearly an esoteric, exoteric dimension.
And of course, the whole gospel and Mark is a secret thing, and there's constantly the
secrecy and the hiding, as you mentioned.
And of course, you know, in the centuries that followed, certain kinds of Christians
took that to heart, and they were like, yeah, it is secret, and y'all don't have access
to it.
Sorry.
So yeah, I think that, and I think I've talked about this before is that, you know, the aftermath
of early Christianity, the early Jesus movement, they're not quite sure what any of this means.
And so we get this sort of explosion of Christianity's, of which, you know, this sort of secret doctrine
of Mark is one, and I think it did get legs, and I think that it did very well in the form
of various kinds of Gnosticism.
I don't know that I would inherently link it to Marcinism.
Right, right, right.
I mean, Marcinism is a very particular axe to grind about the Old Testament or the Hebrew
Bible, and he really likes Paul to the chagrin of everything else.
So I don't know if I would inherently link it to Marcinism, but I think that the idea
that the teachings of Jesus were inherently secret and reserved for a tiny elite.
People may bristle at that, but that would be completely unsurprising given the social
dynamics of how knowledge production happened in the first century.
Following up, one more thing, and then we can go into anything else you'd be interested
in telling us about esotericism is that I had this hunch from Steve Mason of their academics.
I wrote an article that'll be published on Bart Ehrman's blog sometime soon, and I make
the jump to say, the reason he doesn't resurrect and appear, and the women went and told no
one for they were afraid, and that ends, right, is probably a jab at the twelve.
The twelve never get it.
They're dimwits.
That's why Matthew comes in and makes them all understand.
Matthew has the disciples get it.
Mark has them not get it.
He wants to fix the problem.
And he's just and only the women are there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's only the women there.
The disciples are they've scattered because they know what's good for them.
They'll string him up.
They'll string the rest up too.
Yeah, I just made this jump and thought maybe this is a propauling gospel trying to say,
as Paul says over and over to who they were, that doesn't matter to me.
Like it doesn't matter.
These super apostles like this jab over and over to the twelve, like they don't get it.
They backstabbed him according to this contract they made in Galatians three, it seems.
They sent spies on him.
Like he is he may have been embezzling money.
But yeah, yeah, he may have.
And like we don't they certainly accused him of that.
Yeah, someone is saying he's doing it.
And yeah, first Corinthians nine, he's trying to like, hold on, hold on.
No, no, no, no, no, I don't want your money, but they can get money.
But I'm not asking for it.
And then he missed.
He like used the Hebrew Bible out of context to point, oh, don't muzzle an oxen.
It's talking about me.
Yeah.
But I love I love Paul.
I love Paul, too.
He's so human.
Yeah, he's such a human guy.
And he's such a yeah, people people love to hate him.
But I also have this sort of, you know, love-hate relationship with him.
Where I yeah, just, you know, you know, I'm sure folks have seen the bumper
stickers that have the Bible verse on the bumper sticker like John three, 16.
I always wanted to get the one from whatever it is.
First, second, Peter.
That's just where Paul says, and don't trust Alexander the coppersmith.
I want to get second Peter, not, you know, 16, eight or whatever put on a bumper sticker.
Oh, gosh.
What a deal.
I left my coat there.
Make sure you hold on to it.
I love that those those lines.
But I just kind of took this approach, though, just on Mark.
And what makes one an apostle, according to Paul, is that they had a vision,
the appearance of Jesus.
And in Mark, they don't get any appearances.
Jesus never appears to them and they never get it.
And I wonder if this is a jab in saying, you know, the real apostle,
the one he appeared to was Paul.
Yes, me.
Yeah, it's not the 12.
And it made me think maybe this is what Mark's up to.
It's it's a guess.
But yeah, have you ever seen the the there's another alternative?
You know, there's the three famous alternative endings to Mark that are
printed in most Bibles, or at least most reputable Bibles.
But you know, there's another ending that was discovered in a Coptic manuscript.
What's the name of that manuscript?
It was all the rage in the early 20th century, and now it's looking my mind.
But it gives another ending that's completely unique to Mark.
And that that now the name of that that Coptic gospel is slipping my mind.
But I'll send it to you later.
But it also gives a whole another skew on it.
And it's actually even more terrifying that really focuses on the terrified part.
I think I had a what is his doctor Ian Mills on.
And Ian Mills, he pointed out, there's I think there might be even more than four.
I think it probably is as much as as much as there is any ending.
And it could just be that the manuscript broke off.
I mean, that's what happens in papyrus manuscripts is that the beginning
in the end or the parts are going to get damaged the most because of the rolling.
And so depending on how you roll it, the beginning or the most manuscripts are lost.
I know that because I've copied out an entire papyrus manuscript by hand
just to see what it was like.
I copied out the entire first book of Aristotle's metaphysics by hand
on in ancient Greek on papyrus, just to see sort of what it was like to do it
and what kind of mistakes get made and a lot.
We took a zoom into the New Testament here.
So backing up and going into just esotericism period,
what were some of the early actual like institutions where this was the case?
I've heard there were mysteries, even in Osiris Colts
in this, especially when like Serapis is on the scene and various other deities.
Can you tell us about early institutions
where esotericism was systematically a thing?
Of course, I think in any religious setting, it was a thing,
whether that's early Christianity or the the the situation, for instance,
and the ancient Egyptian priestly caste.
So, for instance, one of the really interesting documents that survive
from ancient Egypt is probably an initiatory document
describing how one became a priest in ancient Egypt.
This is sometimes referred to as the Demotic Book of Toth,
which I've done an episode about, and it's incredibly weird.
It's just a very strange book.
So I would say that they that I deal with a lot of weird books.
I should just not say that it just goes without saying at this point.
But I think that they I think that those institutions were probably pretty early on.
I think that some of the earliest places we see them is going to be
in the Alexandrine context, where in Alexandria,
it seems like there were distinct groups who had a vested interest
in maintaining a high level of secrecy and initiation into their circles.
I'm thinking of the Gnostics, I'm thinking of the Hermeticists,
who their documents, the Corpus Hermeticum,
is going to have a huge impact in the the Renaissance
and the foundations of modern esotericism, modern occultism.
Even in the case of certain forms of Christianity, Gnosticism specifically, right?
There's a clear idea that there are the insiders and the outsiders.
And, you know, we're the ones that know and you're the ones that don't.
So that's a case as well.
And it seems like and we can see that, by the way, even among various Gnostic sects,
because they're arguing with each other.
We see in Nagamadi that not only are the proto-Orthodox Christians,
you know, given the Gnostics grief, but even though the Gnostics are claiming,
you know, you don't know, no, you don't know,
which I really love the idea of inter Gnostic beef.
And also, even with a school like the School of Plotinus
that was founded in the in the third century there in Rome,
Plotinus also makes it very clear that he's not being completely
transparent about his exact system.
And so there's always this moment where we can't quite know what some of these
philosophers are thinking, because they're not quite telling us the truth.
And there's an entire history, by the way, of what we call esoteric writing,
where philosophers, scientists, occultists, religious people
will write a document putting forward, ostensibly putting forward their beliefs.
And then between the lines, they're communicating to us, they're not telling us
the truth. And the most famous example of that is Maimonides,
the guide to the perplexed, perhaps the most important work in Jewish philosophy
ever written. Maimonides just comes right out and says,
just so you know, I'm not telling you the truth about what I really believe.
And some of the things I'm writing in here aren't really what I believe.
And they're wrong. And you have to figure out what's really true.
Oh, wow.
And so you're like, wow, damn it, Maimonides.
This book is hard enough as it is, brother.
Like, why do you got to make it harder?
And so there's a long history of this, of of of hiding things in plain sight.
And of course, the most famous example, at least in the Christian context,
is the apocalypse, where clearly this is a
example of what is called X event to prophecy.
It's prophecy that's happening now, which you describe it as if it's
happening in the future in an encoded way, because you're not going to write
a book saying, well, Nero is crappy and I hate the Roman Empire,
because, you know, you don't want to end up like your leader.
So what do you do?
You encode it and you make it sound like it's going to happen in the future.
And so the apocalyptic genre, whether it's Enoch, the the apocalypse of John,
the dozens of other apocalypses that are written, that some of the stuff
in the Dead Sea Scrolls, you're not going to come out as as the scenes and write,
oh, the Romans are bad.
Let's go fight the Romans and God hates the Romans going to defeat them.
You're going to say woe to the kid team or Esau.
Do you might code in your name?
Edomites, it's the Edomites.
It's the kid team or whatever.
So this form of esoteric writing is endemic in the ancient world.
And by the time of the Second Temple period and the centuries that follow,
it sort of gets legs and it gets repeated over and over and over again.
And you find this sort of, again, how do you say something and yet not?
And that's that esoteric writing bit.
And we see it happen over and over again with a wide variety of texts.
And not just that, once Christianity becomes an institutional religion
in the fourth century, Christianity has the ability not just to declare you a
heretic, it has the ability to declare you as a criminal because you're a heretic.
And therefore a lot of practices that would have otherwise
not been tolerated is not the right word, but Christians just didn't have
the political power to kill people for doing what they didn't like.
Well, in the fourth century, they began to get that kind of power.
And what ends up happening are technologies that would make the
Christians nervous, go underground.
This would, for instance, be magic.
And so we see magic kind of go underground, but it never goes away.
And in fact, one of the many dirty secrets or not so dirty secrets
of the medieval world is that the vast majority of practitioners of black
magic in the Middle Ages were priests.
And when you think about that for a minute, it makes total sense.
Who knows how to do the liturgy?
Who knows how to read Latin?
Who knows how to do the rituals associated with things like exorcisms?
The only people with that skill set are going to be priests, the literate population.
So who's writing all these medieval necromancers manuals?
It's some people in the church.
And so this is where, again, we have this weird interplay where the church
is actively suppressing things.
And at the same time, they're only surviving because they can sort of
live in the coattails of the church.
So this is where this weird interplay of how what's acceptable and what's
forbidden are always working together in some very strange ways throughout time.
And we see this really in a very powerful way, for instance, in the Christian
Middle Ages. If we're contrasting esoteric and exoteric, what is the
difference? And can you tell me some practices of esotericism that we now
know or that we find out?
You talk about one of the guys who kind of told the secrets and everybody
hated him for it.
What were those practices?
What did they include versus an exoteric practice?
Can you kind of paint a black and white image so we could see a contrast?
Great.
I think I think an instructive example would be something like exorcism.
Exorcism, as weird as it is, it's exoteric, which is to say it's officially
sanctioned by the church.
It's a thing that any person even in low orders can do.
In fact, many priests in low orders in the Middle Ages would actually make
their living as exorcists.
It was a kind of a, it's kind of the, I don't know, the proletarian
job of priests, driving out demons.
So that is an exoteric practice, which is to say it was sanctioned by the
church. There were rituals for doing it.
The Roman ritual is still done.
In fact, there are more exorcists in dioceses now than there ever has been.
The amount of exorcisms in the world, among Jews, Christians and Muslims
is going up at a very strong pace, oddly enough.
Yeah, there are more demons out there.
In fact, there's been an outbreak recently of exorcisms in the Jewish
world, which is a really fascinating thing that you can get into if you want.
So that's it.
That's an exoteric element, even though it has to do with demons, right?
It's something that you're casting demons out of people.
The power of Christ's compelogy.
We've all seen the movie with the pea soup.
So what's the esoteric dimension?
Well, if it's the case that you are a priest and you have been brought into
the priesthood, into the Catholic priesthood, you at some level have, at least
by extension, the same kind of power that Peter had.
And what is famously Peter have the power of?
Whatever is in heaven, he can bind in heaven.
Whatever is in our thing and bind on the earth.
And so the idea is Catholic priests in the Middle Ages had unique sets of powers.
Well, if you could throw a demon out of someone with the right evocations and
invocations and incantations and, you know, well, couldn't you also
bind those demons?
And if you could bind them, you could also control them.
And what could you control them to do?
Well, what do demons know?
They know all kinds of weird secrets.
They have all kinds of powers.
They have all kinds of weird stations in the universe where there might be a
demon specifically associated with the planet Mars.
And that that was a demon of hatred and murder.
And you might be able to wield that demonic power because you as a priest
have the ability to control these beings because you have access to this holy power.
You can control them the same way you might control a wild animal.
And then you could unleash holy hell literally on other people.
Or you can make people fall in love with you or find buried treasure.
There's a wide monopoly of things that one could do with these demons.
That's an esoteric practice because the idea is at what point, right?
Do you cross the line to making deals with demons?
At what point do you cross the line from controlling them to maybe they're controlling you?
And this is what Augustine always famously says that anytime anyone thinks they're
controlling a demon, the demons just playing them.
And eventually they're going to kill their soul or whatever demons do to people.
And so that's clearly an esoteric practice.
And we would call that practice of binding demons.
It's encoded in a book, several mini books that we have called The Key of Solomon.
There's 150 different manuscripts of this medieval book of black magic where priests,
basically ostensibly, we're learning to bind and control demons.
Now, clearly you don't go to seminary and get that lesson.
And you definitely go to seminary and teach that lesson.
And we know of at least a couple of people who skirted that line and they got burned.
Czechos d'Ascoli is a famous example in the 14th century.
So that's a good example of an esoteric practice.
You're not going to go into your local church and local bishop or whatever and say,
hey, bishop, so and so, I summoned demon last night.
Is that cool?
He's like, hell no, it's not cool.
What the hell is wrong with you?
But you and your friends might be doing it.
And it might be the kind of thing that many of you are doing.
And we have good reason to believe that many of them were doing it because we have
hundreds of manuscripts of people doing this stuff in the Middle Ages.
So that's a good example of an esoteric practice.
So we have demon control.
There's exoteric demon control and there's esoteric demon control.
And we have plenty of evidence for both.
Wow.
So there's kind of a fine line sometimes between both.
Yeah.
It is a very weird thing.
I also have heard, I don't know much about this, but I'm jumping into the future
a bit to the Kabbalah and I've heard some conspiracies about this.
And there are people who think that there's this teaching in the Kabbalah
that's trying, you're going to get where I'm going with this.
Maybe you could do a little defense for me here, that there's a secret teaching
that Jews want to take over the world and kill everyone who doesn't come
and convert to their belief system, something like that.
I've been told by people that anti-Semitism probably cloaked
to try and paint this image that is a misunderstanding, ultimately,
of what's going on in Kabbalah.
Can you help me out here?
I'm sure you've read and you understand where I'm coming from with this.
I don't know anything about the Kabbalah.
So yeah.
So the Kabbalah is a collection of a form of esoteric Judaism
that emerged primarily in the 13th century, mostly in Spain and in southern France.
There's nothing in the Kabbalah that has the idea
that Jews are going to secretly try to take over the world or anything like that.
Now, what we do find in the Kabbalah
is a pretty antagonistic attitude toward non-Jews.
Now, I read a lot of those texts and I don't like them.
They make me feel really gross because I don't like the idea of my non-Jewish
brothers and sisters being described and really in really unfair ways.
But and this is where I'll offer a slight defense of it.
They're also Jews living in the 13th century in Europe
who aren't exactly having the best time of their life living under Christian rule.
And so often when an oppressed people want to get back,
get back at their oppressor, they just can't go revolt.
I mean, what would happen if a bunch of Jews in Spain revolted against the Christians
and get slaughtered?
So what do they do?
They sublimate that rage into literature
and that rage in many ways gets sublimated into some elements of the Kabbalah,
not all the Kabbalah, but in some elements of the Kabbalah.
And that becomes a deep distrust and a disdain for the non for the non-Jewish world.
Now, to be clear, the Kabbalah also really dislikes Jews who aren't religious,
who aren't scrupulously religious the way they think they should be.
Right. So so trust me, they they paint with a broad brush of people they don't like.
And I think it's also really important for folks to understand about,
for instance, the Talmud or other Jewish documents is that what you get in the Talmud
and what you get in the Zohar aren't systematic treaties about what Jews
shouldn't, shouldn't believe their records of conversations.
And as I'm sure you, you know, if you got a bunch of your friends together
at the dinner table or at the bar or whatever and you began to have conversations,
you're going to have that one friend who has a lot of fringe beliefs.
And if you pick out just the card of the conversation with the friend
with the wrench for the fringe beliefs and paint him as if he's the authority
over every all your friends, that clearly represents your entire friend group.
And so what can happen is that people can go into the Talmud
or go into the Zohar, which is the main text of Kabbalah,
and they can pick out the most fringe beliefs.
And then most of these people are doing this or anti-Semites.
Then they can take those fringe beliefs and say, well, this is Kabbalah.
This is the Talmud.
And it's in the same way that you could take the Hebrew Bible.
There's all kinds of terrifying things in there.
Blessed are those that smashed the head of children against rocks.
If you just take verses like that out of the Hebrew Bible or the idea of carate,
you just slaughter everyone in the book of Joshua, which of course never happened.
It was a weird fantasy on the part of the writer that they wish it would have happened, perhaps.
But if you paint with a broad brush like that, you get a misrepresentation
of what Kabbalah is and you get a misrepresentation of what the Talmud is.
So it's important for folks to realize that Jewish texts tend to be records
of conversations, not systematic treaties.
So it's so one way of contrasting this would be something like,
and these are actually contemporary documents, the Zohar is being written
as the center point of Kabbalah in the 13th century and Thomas Aquinas
is writing the Summa Theologica just across the border there in Paris.
Thomas is writing a systematic treaties.
The Kabbalah is a system of conversations.
And so in the system of conversations, you're going to you're going to get a wide range of beliefs.
So no, there's nothing in there that's it sort of I've heard this, too.
And it sort of what's the right way of putting it?
It's a variation on a theme of the protocols of the elders of Zion, really.
It's just the midi.
It's just people who believe that conspiratorial idea about Jews,
just broadcasting that back into the past.
And the truth of the matter is that the Zohar is just only recently
be completely translated to English, so I can't imagine they've read the whole thing.
There I've heard some Jews actually still use like something of the Kabbalah
in their in their like speeches today about non Jews and things like that.
From what I heard, there are clips.
So obviously, not all Jews think alike, but there is no conspiracy
technically to take over the world.
But at the same time, there is this belief that one day,
you know, our God is going to have us win.
Yeah, so there are really gross parts in the Talmud where it says that
when when the Messiah comes, all the non Jews will be enslaved to the Jews.
That's one guy's opinion.
It's really important to note that's one guy's opinion.
And there are people in the Talmud saying, no, it's not what's going to happen.
And how the hell do you know what's going to happen?
So, yeah, yeah, there are definitely a wide range of this
some gross stuff in the Talmud.
I won't deny it.
But I think, again, it's important to realize that the Talmud is a collection
of of of conversations that stretched over a period of 500 years.
And in any conversation stretching over 500 years,
you're going to get some pretty fringe people.
So there's this fine line between I've got a friend of mine
who talks about a lot of the Jewish stuff that goes on.
And he he's he's been in trouble before, actually,
for posting about stuff in Jewish thoughts.
And the problem was is they're viewing him as an anti-Semite,
but he's also pointing out these bad problems and going like,
why is this, you know, rabbi over here actually preaching this right now?
Some of these ideas.
And he's trying to like kind of do a harm reduction,
like kind of like I deal with fundamentalist Christians
where they teach certain ideas that don't look good.
How do you feel about that?
How do you feel about people who are trying to like go after and show
like the flaws in Jewish teachings or Christian teachings?
You name it.
But the problem is, is these this is an ethno group,
whereas you're dealing with just kind of a religious group over here.
The sensitivity is a lot different,
especially in light of what's happened in the 20th century.
Sure. And so I think that I would say two things.
One is if you put your sermons out there and you say messed up stuff,
sorry, not sorry, if someone calls you out on it.
Like that's not cancel culture.
That's just you got to take responsibility for what you say.
Right. And so if a rabbi is out there saying
racist messed up stuff about non Jews, I don't have any pity for them
if they get called out on it.
So that's one part of it.
The other part of it is.
Yeah, there is a history of of of bad actors in the Jewish community
being made to represent the entire community in that giving ammo to anti-Semitism.
So, yeah, it is a fine line.
And it is a difficult thing to it is a difficult line to walk.
And I think that what people have to come to understand is that
the Taliban doesn't represent Islam.
Kharedi Judaism doesn't represent all of of of of Judaism.
And the Ku Klux Klan doesn't represent all of Christianity.
And if we and if we if we.
If we allow that, I think it's a tragedy.
If we if we allow that to be representative,
then we're not really telling the complex picture about these religions.
So, yeah, when I hear Kharedi black hat,
you know, I was in Yashiva for a while in the in the in the Orthodox Jewish world.
And I heard enough of it and I had to leave.
I just like I'm tired of.
Anti science stuff, I'm tired of of of stuff being said about non Jews.
You know, things like non Jews don't have all the souls that one have.
And I'm like, this is gross.
I'm not getting with this.
And so, yeah, I don't have any patience for it.
And I think that and I think the problem that might be is when a non Jew calls out
a Jew, I think the Jewish community is going to be worried about that
just because there's a real power asymmetry.
Now, you're talking about Jews represent less than one percent
of the population of the world.
You know, there's more Sikhs in the world than Jews.
That's often a very difficult thing for Christians to understand
because they don't seek so hard.
But, you know, you're you're talking about a very tiny population
who's been subject to some pretty severe trauma over the past couple thousand years.
And so, unsurprisingly, they're a bit nervous.
Wow. Well, thank you for taking us into that.
I kind of was wondering like what this esotericism thing is.
And correct me if I'm wrong, isn't Pythagorean thought also esoteric?
Or is there something in this that's esoteric?
Not only not only is it esoteric, but it's it's so esoteric
that when folks may know this, we're watching that the Pythagoreans believe
that that reality was number, that numbers were fundamentally
what everything around you is actually just numbers.
And one of their members actually discovered irrational numbers.
And this so devastated the Pythagoreans, they assassinated him.
What? Oh, yeah, it was a cult.
It was a cult in the sort of the classic like cult, you know, cult sense.
So they killed a guy over the his discovery of irrational numbers.
They did not want the idea that the universe could be in any way irrational.
They wanted a perfectly harmonized universe.
So, you know, you just murder a guy when he.
So so it also is worth pointing out that it seems very likely
that the secret teachings of Plato were probably Pythagorean in nature.
There's I can get into why we believe that, but we're fairly confident
that Plato incorporated Pythagorean teachings.
And that was a secret core of his belief system.
So absolutely, yeah, Pythagorean, they had a lodge in Southern Italy
that the local people there were so terrified of them that they burned it down.
They had a secret club there and there in in Southern Italy.
And eventually they just got they just got burned out
because the locals there were just so freaked out by them. Wow.
And so, yeah, so in many ways, yeah, Pythagoreanism has a lot of like
it's not just a philosophy.
There's also religious practice where they believed in reincarnation.
They didn't eat beans, apparently.
They didn't eat the Kappa vegetarian diet.
We don't know a ton about them because a lot of it's been hidden
because it was esoteric, but yeah, they they were off the chain.
I mean, murdering people for for for leaking the leaking
the the the nasty truth about irrational numbers.
I've heard, too, the counting of the 513 fish in the Jesus story
when they cast the net and they count and somebody counted them
or else they wouldn't know the number is kind of somehow showing
an awareness of Pythagorean story or something to that.
Do you think about this?
I haven't heard that story. No.
I mean, anytime I see numbers in the in the Bible, I'm always convinced
that there's some kind of what we call Gamatria underneath the hood of it.
Right. Gamatria is just the fact that you can take Hebrew and Greek.
Then the the individual letters of Hebrew and Greek stand for numbers.
They had no separate counting system.
And typically numbers are almost always doing some kind of double duty symbolically.
Now, the problem, of course, they get badly corrupt as manuscripts go
from one to the other.
The most famous example is the number of the beast
where the early manuscripts have 616, but the later manuscripts have 666.
And so and it's pretty clear that that probably is a code for for Nero.
Right.
And so that's an example where, again, you're hiding things in plain sight,
that if you know it's Nero, then you you you know that 616 or 666 is Nero.
But if you don't know, it's really mysterious
and then you make left behind books about it or whatever.
Yeah. Yeah. That that specific situation.
I was talking about where he says cast the net on the other side of the boat
and they catch all these fish. They count them as 513.
513 is actually a triangular number.
And so if you take like one plus two plus three plus four plus five
all the way to nineteen, you're at 513.
Interesting. Yes.
And then it even gets even weirder.
Five, one, three, if you shift the numbers around
and you like do 315 plus three, five, one, it's 666.
And you could do that two different ways.
It's just a strange thing.
But yeah, that whole thing of one plus two is three and three plus four is this.
If you do it all, if you add one plus two, plus three, plus four, you get ten.
That symbol, that triangular symbol was a sacred symbol in Pythagoreanism
called the tetrakis.
So it could be. It could be.
You know, the people that wrote these books were smart in their own way
and they were they had a literary flair and it's certainly the case that they were.
No one's going to pick a number out of a hat at that time.
All right.
And no one called and no one's counting those fish.
So the number is a literary invention that almost certainly is important.
I'd be curious to see in the history of the paparological record
if that number is if it's stable.
Right. What are the sources actually say? Yeah.
Yeah, if it's stable, because a lot of these numbers often become highly unstable,
especially in the Hebrew Bible, we get a lot of instability in numbers
and ditto in the New Testament.
The 616 666 thing is a pretty classic example
where the manuscript record clearly adopted a later
number as opposed to most early manuscripts don't have 666.
Yeah, really interesting stuff.
I just figured I'd throw it out there.
So Plato, how does this impact Christianity?
As far as you could tell, this is my last question.
And I want to do this again, of course.
This has been a blast.
There's so much to discuss.
So we're just trying to crack crack the surface here.
I asked because I came out of Christianity,
so it's obviously a very interesting area for me.
As far as Plato and this esoteric
rooted idea, how much impact did the philosophy of that have on, let's say, Paul?
Paul, it's hard to say.
I mean, he's a bit of an enigma in terms of his educational background.
He makes a lot of claims about his educational background,
but one one doubts them.
I do, at least really set at the feet of Gomel or whatever.
It's so difficult to tease out.
And I've been asked this question before about to what degree
do we think Paul is educated in both Jewish classical education
that a rabbi would have gotten at that time, but also Greek education?
Because it's clear that he wants to.
He wants to put forward that he has some education, right?
The famous debate in Acts where he debates
the stoic and Epicurean philosophers and says, no, the unknown God is in fact the God.
So it's clear that the text of Acts wants you to believe that Paul has this education.
But when I read through the letters that we think are Paul, right,
the seven letters that we think really were written by
and there's debate still about if all those seven are really written by him.
I don't see a highly trained philosophical mind.
I see someone in the tools you would have had access to
would have been stoicism, Platonism, specifically a form of a system of thought
we now call middle Platonism, people like Numenius and things like this.
And when I read Numenius or when I read people from the middle Platonic period,
that phylo, something quasi like phylo, they were both ish, contemporary ish.
I don't see that in Paul.
And what I see in Paul is a very confused man.
And I can mean confused in the best possible way
in the sense that he's had some incredible, powerful vision, right?
And he has to make sense of it.
And what I see in those letters is him trying to basically build a ship at sea,
building this theology and testing out ideas, seeing what works and what doesn't.
I often say that, look, you can see in the, for me in the New Testament,
you can see different theories of salvation.
It's not like there's even one worked out theory.
There's the ransom theory.
And then the ransom theory is abandoned for this atonement theory.
And the atonement theory has to kind of get jiggered around to make it work.
So what I see in Paul is a kind of theological amateur doing a really ingenious thing.
And that's this shift away from the messiah that redeems the world politically to a messiah
that fixes a spiritual problem that began with Adam.
So he sort of moved the goalpost of messiah in a really ingenious way.
But I don't see any need, at least for Paul, to have incorporated a bunch of
middle platonic thought to make that happen.
Now, that's completely to be contrasted with someone like Justin Martyr or Valentinas,
founder of Valentinian Nazism, where, or Irenaeus for that matter, Irenaeus, Justin Martyr,
Valentinas, they rely heavily on middle Platonism and to make their systems work.
And there I see where Christianity really gets its sort of intellectual sea legs.
And of course, and I've made this argument before, that the Trinity is unimaginable without,
in fact, I would consider the Trinity the crowning jewel of Greek philosophy.
You have to bring to bear Platonism, Aristotelianism, Stoicism, the whole magilla
to make the Trinity work, to make it coherently the Trinitarian economics work.
And so I would say that you don't see the intellectual
explosion in Christianity, at least not for me, until the second century.
It's then, I think, that when that really gets going.
But I don't see it in Paul.
He's genius, but he's not a genius that's informed by the kind of conversations
happening in middle Platonism.
Does it sound like he knows something, levels of heaven, 1 Corinthians 15,
like different bodies with different flesh?
It sounds like he knows something, but like you're saying, knowing something,
plenty of people knew something.
There's a level that he's not quite at with these other people who really
make the golden standard, something like, oh, this is a real thinker.
I think so.
And I think that the, for instance, that example in Corinthians,
where he's caught up to the third heaven, which is interesting because he says he knows a guy.
And of course, it's probably him.
I love, I know a guy.
Like, yeah, I know a guy who does drugs.
Oh, yeah.
You know a guy, Paul.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I know that guy too.
And so, yeah, that moment in Corinthians where he says he was caught up to the third heaven,
you may know this and folks in the audience may know it as well,
that that's probably a reference to a form of Jewish esotericism
called Merkava mysticism that existed at that time, for which we have texts.
We have actually a substantial amount of literature that survive in which we have
depictions and descriptions of the rabbis.
And there's a famous story in the Talmud that recounts this as well,
where the rabbis are actually descending into the palaces of God,
and then describing these palaces until they enter into the private throne room of God,
and they're given a glimpse of the body of God.
And they describe God, the body parts of God, but not only the body parts of God,
but the dimensions of God's body, the literal measurements between God's eyebrows
or the length of God's beard.
And this literature is called the Shio-Koma literature.
I'm not, it survives.
We still have it.
God's beard is 14,000 feet long or so, as you'd imagine.
Yeah, yeah.
That's, that makes sense, you know.
That makes total sense.
I'm working on mine, I'm still like,
but this Merkeva literature, we know was being practiced.
We have references to it in the Talmud.
We have literature that survived.
It was written by the people who did this form of mysticism.
Of course, it was never public, right?
It was always a secret thing that these rabbis did.
But that weird oblique reference to Paul actually tells me that he may have been
part of those circles of folks doing this kind of mystical enterprise.
And unsurprisingly, if he's having visions of descending into the throne room of God
or into the Merkeva, the Hechelot of the divine,
it's not surprising because he's not, he's not,
that he's going to have other kinds of visions as well.
And the vision he had of Jesus famously may have been emergent from this Merkeva mysticism.
Yeah, things that are unlawful to say he talks about.
And it makes me wonder with his Torah ideas that it's like,
maybe he's envisioning something that also fits his program with Gentiles quite well with that money.
It's hard to know because people go, oh, he's a con man.
And then others go, no, he's just a lunatic, nutcase, religious guy.
And it's like, no, he might be both or he might have a little both tendencies.
Yeah, I don't think either, actually.
I don't see him as a con man or as an unstable person.
Because I think that unstable people would not be able to do what he did,
which is probably the greatest marketing campaign of an idea ever.
And he held together communities.
I mean, I've seen unstable, mentally unstable people,
they're not holding themselves together,
much less entire communities of people, all the way through Asia Minor.
So one, I just-
Well, I'm thinking like a Jim Jones-y type of like a-
It could be.
I mean, Jim Jones was highly unstable toward the end,
especially when you got into all the meth.
But that's what-
I know a guy who once did meth and-
Yeah, he did meth and founded a community in Guyana, one sideways.
Yeah, I don't see Paul as unstable.
I see him as a kind of genius who's coming to grips with something that broke his mind.
And he's trying to put it back together.
And he's trying to put it back together in a way that he thinks
is going to make sense for everybody.
Because I think that the vision he had is a vision of radical spiritual inclusion.
And on the one hand, people, you know, yeah, like,
yeah, I just don't buy the con man thing.
And also, I just think that James in the community back in Jerusalem
had every reason to doubt this dude.
He didn't know Jesus.
He has this vision and vanishes for some amount of time.
And then he kind of shows up and tells everyone how to run the show.
And I can imagine the people that knew Jesus being like,
the hell do you know?
Who are you?
You're some guy.
So, yeah, I mean, I don't know.
I've never gotten the con man argument.
And again, there's some people that want to say,
oh, we twist the Hebrew Bible to get what he wants.
I'm like, have you read the Mishnah?
Have you read the Talmud?
Yeah.
Who didn't do that?
I actually was reading, I can't remember the name of one of the rabbis,
but I'm reading a book, Jews and the Roman Rivals.
I got it somewhere over here.
Anyway, it's on the history because I have this weird interest of finding out in history
when non-Jews, which I will equate as non-Israelites whatsoever,
because there's some groups out there that think, well,
an Israelite from the Northern Kingdom is a non-Jew.
And they have this wild idea, I'm sure you heard it.
Technically, yeah, technically, yes.
So, a little Benjaminites and Simeonites and yeah.
Right, you can get all technical, but
a non-Jew being a non-Israelite, at what point did a pagan with no genealogical tie
get called Abraham's descendant or being a Chattah Abraham?
And the rabbis had this wrestling match going on.
One of them said, when they brought this to him as a convert,
they said, no, you can't say the prayer in Deuteronomy 25,
whereas the God of our fathers, you could say the God of your fathers, but not ours.
Then another rabbi goes, have you not read the scripture?
And then he says, God, or Abraham's name means standing,
or Abraham means standing father or something like this.
And then he says, but his name will be called Abraham,
for he will be the father of many Goyim.
And what is a Goyim?
Well, this is non-Israelite.
And so, a different time where the word Goyim is now obviously applied to people
who are not Israelites exclusively, it seems, for the most part,
that is where you would designate the category for Goyim.
I thank you, God, that I was not born a woman,
and I thank you that I was not born a Goy.
So this idea that there's this insider-outsider idea,
rather than it just being generically used as a nationalistic nation.
It just means nation, yeah.
Right.
And that term takes on its own meaning.
Like, or Goyim, right?
Or Goyim means the light to the nations.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, but there's people who want to take that strict,
like, that general term and apply it throughout all history,
and don't realize, like, no.
Words change their meaning.
Yeah, again, if I told you 100 years ago,
let's go be gay in the forest.
That'd be a real different thing that it means now.
I want more guy, though.
I'm just kidding.
Yeah, that guy, too.
But yeah, like, again, when we, yeah, when we,
part of the rabbinical genius is how they manipulate these texts
to get them to say what they want them to say.
That's kind of what religions do.
I don't care if you're a Buddhist or a Muslim or whatever.
The Ta'afseer tradition isn't trying to tell you
what the Quran really says.
It's trying to tell you what I, as a Ta'afseer,
write or need the Quran to say.
Okay, so yeah, the rabbis bend and twist and HaFaqbaba HaFaqbaba,
right, spin it, spin it, round and round.
Anything can be found.
Two rabbis, three opinions.
Yeah, yeah, these classic things, right?
Ben Haihe or whatever says this in Perke of us.
So, yeah, I mean, like, but again, they go back to Paul.
People say this about Paul.
Paul manipulated the scriptures out of context to blah, blah, blah.
I'm like, yeah, that's rabbinical Judaism, bro.
Like, that's what they did.
That's how they salvaged a religion in the aftermath
of destruction of the temple was by altering the religion
by understanding the Hebrew Bible in a way
that didn't need the temple anymore,
at least for a little while.
Yeah, you don't need sacrifices.
God didn't want sacrifices.
Look at this passage, you know?
Right, it needs prayers.
Prayers and good works.
Yeah, so yeah, I don't, I don't, people,
and again, I see some of my fellow Jewish people,
they lambast Paul and they say, oh, Paul's blah, blah, blah,
blah, I'm like, no, he's just kind of doing what everyone did.
And to single him out as uniquely malevolent,
it's just not, it's not, it's immacronistic.
I think he does have a strange idea about Jesus.
Of course, yeah.
It seems very radically different
than what you typically hear.
But I wish we had writings from the Jerusalem
to find out how their views were.
Was he just a regular rabbi?
You know, was he, was Jesus viewed as this,
was he viewed as a Messiah figure?
Kind of like what we see with Akiva,
or we see, what is it?
Who's the rabbi in the, the, the war in 130, was it?
Bar Kokhba.
Bar Kokhba, yeah.
Yeah, Bar Kokhba, yeah.
He was seen like that for, from rabbis as well.
Of course, the rabbi Akiva, the leading rabbi of the day.
And of course, in the Talmud, it makes very clear
that Akiva believed he was a Messiah.
And other rabbis said,
Akiva, grass will grow in your cheek
and the son of David will not have come.
You'll be dead in the ground and there'll be no Messiah yet.
And sadly, of course, Akiva did not die
and was buried in the ground.
He was burned alive by the Romans
for supporting Bar Kokhba and the revolution.
Wow.
So, so yeah, he was wrapped in a Torah scroll
and burned alive.
You know, the Romans had a sense of,
the Romans broke it in,
stuck it in and broke it off.
But yeah, there's not some Messiahs around Thudas
and Bar Kokhba and there'll be other Messiahs
to come in Shabbatites V and things like that.
And they were polarizing.
And I think that even the Jesus movement,
whatever Messiah meant inside of the early Jesus movement,
I'm absolutely sure there was no unified belief,
apostolic succession about exactly what this meant.
And we can see that because not even the Gospels
can seem to figure out what it means.
We have the Gospel of Love and the Secret Gospel
and we have this very Jewish redemptive Gospel in Matthew
and we have this very pro sort of Gentile Gospel
and Luke and Acts.
They're building a ship at sea, man.
And we shouldn't expect anything different than that.
And to default them as if they're frauds
for building a ship at sea after they've had
this traumatic experience of having their leader executed
and apparently some of them,
at least having visions of his resurrection,
I'm not going to get in the business
of throwing stones at those people.
I don't want to condemn them or mock them.
I want to understand them because when Messiahs die,
weird things happen.
And this is a sociological, religious sociological thing
we see happen over and over and over again.
And the better we understand it,
to go back to our friend Jim Jones,
the better we can prevent things like that from happening.
David Koresh, right?
We need to understand the Messianic worldview.
And I think that writing Paul off as a nut job
or whatever or a con man, we're not only doing him
a disservice, but he's not the last Paul.
The Messianic impulse is still caked into Christianity,
Judaism, and Islam.
And if we don't really understand that through history,
we're going to be doomed to repeat all those kinds of mistakes.
And I think, for instance, when I imagine
the horrifying instance in Guyana or when
the branched Davidian compound went up in flames,
I think it's because we haven't learned the lesson
about how to think about Messiahs
and try to take them seriously,
even if we don't take them literally.
I think those are very different things.
And trying to understand the mind of people who are doing,
that's an interesting point.
They're functioning human beings who seem normal
and but just have these ideologies that really,
really grab them.
This has been a very interesting talk.
I really want to have you come back.
I was going to ask you about speaking in tongues,
what your thoughts were in this weird thing.
Glossalalia, yeah.
And not only that, but angelic languages.
There's a lot of history of angelic languages
that we actually have.
And as a terroristism,
the most famous being the Inokian language,
which is a language where allegedly revealed,
yeah, it has grammar, syntax, vocabulary,
allegedly revealed to a 16th century occultist named Dr. John Dee
in his medium, Edward Kelly.
It is hella weird.
Hella weird.
But yeah, a topic for another day.
But yeah, Derek, I'd love to come back on
and I'd love to hang out more and chat.
It's been a lot of fun.
This has been a blast.
Dr. Justin Sledge, everybody,
go check out his Esoterica Patreon.
Go support him, especially once you watch some of his videos.
And he also has the YouTube channel.
Be sure to check that out.
Subscribe, hit that bell if you want to be an insider.
If you want to remain exoteric,
don't touch that bell right there next to the bell right there.
Don't touch it.
Don't touch it.
It's only for the cool kids.
Don't eat the fruit on the tree.
Okay.
And then also he has the website.
Look, I think he ate the fruit on the tree that day.
He got married.
So, you know.
Yeah, something like that.
Yeah, I think I interpreted it that way.
What are you going to say?
Oh, brother.
Oh, yeah.
And also, one of the things I do is I also have a small little business
where I sell occult books from the Middle Ages,
the ex Libris tab there.
You can see some of the books from the late Middle Ages
that I actually deal in.
So, if you're interested in real books of occultism,
real books of magic, actually printed in the 17th and 16th centuries.
I also deal in those books, which is a lot of fun.
You get into some really cool stuff in some of those books.
So, that's awesome.
I did not know that.
You're a man of many trades here.
I seriously appreciate your knowledge.
What did you think about this episode?
Let us know down in the comments section.
We went everywhere.
We didn't just focus on esotericism.
But there's a, I mean, it all kind of interconnects in some way.
And you're going to find these things connect often.
Watch his videos.
And if you're a Myth, Vision fan, come to me and let me know
if you want anything specific of the videos that he talks about
in the comments section.
And me and Dr. Sledge can talk about maybe doing another episode following up.
I'd like to do these more with you because you just,
you just have a lot of insight and a lot of ways.
I really do appreciate you joining here.
Yeah, thank you, Derek.
I really appreciate you having me on.
And best of luck with the channel.
And I'd love to come back and chat more.
It's been a blast.
Thank you.
It really has.
Everybody go in the description right now, go support my guest,
and never forget we are Myth, Vision.
Ladies and gentlemen, join Myth, Vision's Patreon,
not only to support us, but there are 72 videos that I did
with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier,
all on the Patreon, Early Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars
and you're helping Myth, Vision grow.
