Dr. Richard C. Miller, your book, Resurrection and Reception, is a heck of a book covering so
much. And one of the things that it covers is this ascension idea. I had never really put any
depth in my thinking on how Romulus ascends, Jesus ascends, and the closest, even Delcy
Allison Jr. admitted, the closest analogy to Jesus ascension is Romulus. There's no other
Christian apologists love running to, well, Elijah might take it up on our chariot, or they find
some precedence within the Jewish tradition to try and answer this problem. But nobody comes
close to Jesus. So introduce us to Translation Fable ascensions. What is it? Why are they going
up? What is the whole deal, Phyllis? Oh, yeah. Up until this point, I think,
from what I saw in my own research, normally a census, this idea of ascending up to the heavens
was seen as sort of the single signature idea behind translation. That's what it implied.
And what is translation for people who don't know? It's a bodily transformation. Your body
is going from its current state into becoming a God-like body. Okay. Now, manifestations of that
or evidence of that can come in any number of forms, whether you're able to walk through walls,
whether you're able to appear, disappear, appear as someone you're not, whether you're able to
ascend up to heaven, or any number of those things, any kind of manifestation that, hey,
this person is like Athena, or this person is like so-and-so, that's able to come back and
forth between the two worlds. Castor and Pollux, the Dioscary, for instance. One of them is born,
one of them is given deification, or given a translated state, the other not, and they decide
to kind of meet in the middle so that they both, and it says in the text, so that they can both
go between the two worlds. And so basically, the one brother shares with his other, his twin,
this ability, and so they kind of even out each other's status in that way. And so it's kind of
an interesting way to look at that. So ascension would then happen as a way to signal, hey, this is
a glorified figure. This is in our Hall of Fame, as it were, in the ancient world. And so this is
a person that didn't go down into Hades. They're not down there with the shades in Hades dealing
with whatever's there. This is a person that has been elevated to be among the gods. Now,
in classical antiquity, that meant Olympus was no longer on a mount, just like Yahweh was no
longer on a mountain. They're up in the sky now, and people had already investigated all those
mountains and figured out there's nothing there. And so the heaven basically, or the blessed place,
ended up becoming up in the sky. And so at that time then to ascend meant to go and join the
gods. Whether it was literal or not, I don't think so because this is a literary motif that's
happening over and over again, something like, not to make fun of it, but if you see in a
cartoon, someone dies in the cartoon, and then they're strumming a harp, and they're floating
upwards, and this kind of thing. It was a little more serious than that, but I think moving that
direction though, that our grandma is looking down on us from above, this kind of thing, is she up?
Is that where grandma is? Up? Is she looking at us with her real eyeballs? Right. There's
different questions that you can start asking, which some of the myths, Hercules, is literally
after he burns his body, his physical body. He's having kids up there on Mount Olympus,
and you're like, dude, you just burnt everything, including your stuff. How are you having kids?
Well, it doesn't need to be rational. It doesn't need to make sense, but in some way,
the mythos and cultic kind of concept makes sense. So Jesus fits into this category,
you're saying, with him ascending, and which is why, right out the gate, you have several
followers, and I don't mean a derogatory, like cultic groups of Christianities,
that see him as divine in some way, which later gives birth to a concept that we find unites
the father, the son, and the spirit. But right now, he is in the category of a god or demigod,
correct? Right. Yeah. Well, the translation fable, what I call it a fable, because that's
what Plutarch calls it. He calls it a muthos, or that they're mythologizing, which gets translated
in Peron as fable, or fable writing. And I don't mean that in the same as like Esau's fables,
or something like that. I mean, it is a fabulite. This is among the fabulite of the ancient world.
And so basically, in other words, it's a tale that has a certain sacred purpose to it. And so
in this case, you've got the conclusion of the Gospels with this, right? And so the conclusion
of plot. Now, you could make the case that Jesus is ascending at the beginning of Luke, but that's
almost kind of like a Luke ax. That's their way of bridging the story over. Basically, though,
when you're ending someone's, at the conclusions of someone's career, if they're to be elevated in
a text, it's the end of plot for that particular storyline. And so that's unique to the translation
fable and doesn't really have any connection with resurrection in any particular writing that we
know of. And so other people were raised in the ancient world from the dead. And that it doesn't
mean that that's the conclusion of the plot, nor does it mean that this person should be worshiped,
like no one's running around starting a cult of Lazarus and trying to create veneration and worship
for the same. In fact, Lazarus goes on to die again. That's not what's going on in the Gospels.
So this is a very important point to kind of parse out for people. Resurrection,
that term that we have in Greek, which kind of has a Jewish context to it that Paul uses,
is the idea that the body, it means to like stand up, the body comes back, it's rising up.
So this debate, and this is important that we're getting into this about is it physical body or
is it spiritual body, which we see as a debate, some people argue, we don't have to die on that
hill. The idea is when Paul says he died, was buried, rose, went up. And then this idea is that
he ascends. Is Paul in 1 Corinthians 15 kind of given this idea? Because you're saying several
figures, not just in the Jewish world, even in the Gospels are resuscitated. They are resurrected
technically. They rose back up. Nobody's worshiping them. Nobody's making cults around them. They
come back. Eventually it's assumed they die like any other human. Right. Well, there's, I mean,
if we go to Asclepius, if we go to Heracles, if we go to Apollonius of Tyana, all of these guys
ascended in one way or another. And they also rose other people from the dead, just like Jesus.
And so those are some analogs that are out there in the cultural world that were huge,
much more popular than Jesus at the time that these stories circulated and would have been well
known. Yeah, I do considerable work in the book. And I would point people to my book, I unpack this
idea like, why are they calling it a resurrection then? What's going on with the early Christian
movement? What's going on? And so my argument there is it's nominal that the signals, the literary,
linguistic, semiotic signals of this text are littered with translation language up and down.
In fact, that all of these post-mortem appearances and Touch Me and all of this stuff
is trying to deal with translation. It's trying to register this with, in no uncertain terms,
that this is what we're doing. We're exalting him through this protocol. Now, it's an Near Eastern
installment of that, but they're calling it a resurrection rather than translation.
Yeah, emphasizing a point you brought up, I just recently had as a revelation from Dr. Miller's work
was that when you have these stories of like, don't touch me, I haven't gone to my father to be
glorified or touch me, Thomas, know and see that I am flesh and blood or flesh and bone, the term is,
in Luke, where flesh and blood in Paul gets emphasized to say, this guy isn't real flesh and
blood. This is a physicality argument that people have. You're suggesting that that translation
fable, if we don't just look at Jesus and we go to other figures, the fact that they had a body
after they died and ascended meant they were worthy of worship. They were deity or deified.
So this would have signaled, which is why Thomas touches and then goes, my Lord,
my God, and then worships him. It's not about, I touch him, oh, our creeds are affirmed four
centuries later. Like, yeah, he's physically in the same body and the actual flesh and blood,
we will one day as well be physical the same way, even if one could argue to try and make the case
that one day maybe they think there's a mass resurrection where we'll be also like his state
in a deified form. That is kind of the expectation some seem to have that we will also become like
him. But that's not, we've made a lot to do out of that. And you're saying we've missed the boat
a little? A lot, a lot. We've missed the boat a lot. So he's eating broiled fish. He's, what is
this? It's either trying to demonstrate something. They're trying to make sure if you go to Luke even
and if you go to John, they're trying to demonstrate that he's not a spirit. He's not a ghost. This
is an apparition. We're touching him. We're feeling him. He's eating food in front of us.
And yet at the same time he's walking through walls. He's able to disfigure himself in appearance
such that people can't even recognize him anymore. And he's ascending up into the clouds. And so
these are all the markings of only a God can do those things. Only a God. And so the idea,
now you might make the case that some of the apostles later had different kind of
permutations of this in lesser ways. And they were divinized with kind of a lower case D
in some way. But they really do work in the Gospels to make sure this is registering as
clearly as possible what they're doing with Jesus, that he's being exalted through those
standard protocols. And that's where you get into, we can get into one Corinthians 15.
People that rose from the dead in the ancient world didn't have appearances.
You know, we already know Larry or Lazarus or the widow's daughter or whatever. We already know
if you go into Apollonius of Tyanna, they didn't have appearance. He rose someone from the dead
in there as well. There's no appearance stories. There's nobody in the 500 saw him or
there's no work being done around that. So what you get at the beginning of one Corinthians 15
falls right into my thesis in so many ways. And that is that in the observed
phenomenology, many of these stories had these signals in them. They had appearances and then
they also had eyewitnesses. These were translations. In fact, Paul would have had to do great work in
that text to undo that particular pattern and say, but I know you know about all that happening
all across your empire and culture for the last 500 years or so. But this is different.
So I want that to sink into the viewer. You're suggesting several other cultic groups,
whether they be the Caesar cult, whether they be Romulus, whether they be some of the sons of Zeus,
had post-mortem of that demigod, hero, figure, god, whatever, appearances and eyewitnesses who
claim they saw, who saw them on a road. And I want to emphasize something that I think is important.
Jesus does too. Look at Luke. We'll go back to 1 Corinthians 15, but look at Luke. The road to
Emmaus, he appears, they don't recognize him. All of a sudden, boom, they see him breaking the break.
And it's, I think, a signal to the cultic practice of Eucharist teaching. I think that is the
etymological here it is. You want him, you want his presence, eat and drink his flesh and his blood.
That's what I think that whole story is about, even though it does tie into the translation
table, it's the cultic thing you're talking about that's powerful. But then Paul's on this road,
and man, have I heard this one enough. He really did see Jesus on a road, and it's like, dude,
the same author who wrote that, like almost what sounds ghostly post-mortem appearance that we also
see was Romulus and other Caesars, you name it, eyewitnesses who saw them after their deaths
on roads and stuff. Here's Paul on a road seeing a deified figure from heaven, bright light,
blinding him, who are you, Lord? It is me, Jesus, whom thou persecuteth, et cetera.
You can't tell me this doesn't walk like a duck. You know, here I go with the duck.
Yeah, no, it's a theme. It's one of the sub-themes that I list there. I think I give maybe 11,
but recurring theme. And it starts in Romulus, the Julius Proculus story, where he basically
steps forward and gives sworn testimony to having seen Romulus in his ascended state,
and in his translated state, meets him on the road, has a discussion with him, receives a great
commission, go ye therefore into all the world. And of course, he's going to tell him to go do
something cool for the Roman propaganda and not for the gospel, but it falls lockstep in there.
And so, yes, you end up with basically a road encounter with Paul. He almost gives the quintessential
road encounter. I mean, there's the Emmaus one, obviously, but the Pauline one, that's the pivot
point, the fulcrum of his story, his sacred biography as an early legendary figure in the
movement. And so you would just draw that line backwards in a way with continuity,
even though the story is different. Paul doesn't emphasize that glowing light road experience.
You're suggesting, as again, heuristically looking at other gospels, other acts fictionally,
and going, here's some legends and folklore and translation fable and all that. We're working
backwards, we're in the gospels and acts, also the same thing. Then we get to Paul's letters,
and this is where I was confused and others don't get. He has eyewitnesses, he has a death
burial, and then he uses the term resurrection. So why do you think he uses that term there,
rather than metamorphosis or some other term to describe, he just went up?
Because that was what was more important to him. The point of the chapter wasn't to try and make
some historiological long case about the historicity of Jesus' resurrection. That was not what was
going on there. He makes his first couple points, but only as a springboard into getting into his
pet theology, his signature theology, and as a former Pharisee, at least that's how he's portrayed
in the text, he wants to advocate for resurrection of the dead in the eschatological traditional
form, as it was understood in Judaism, that at the final day of judgment, that there would be some
sort of collective or mass resurrection, and people would stand judgment and receive their
kind of sentence or whatever their reward or whatever was going to happen in terms of their
afterlife. And so that's a final day of judgment, and he wants to get into that, and he tries to
argue, hey, look, now we already know there's a couple different teachers, one water is another
plants, and this kind of stuff. Apollo does this. This is going on in Corinth. He was trying to
reconcile things under his pet idea and trying to make sure it's all aligning there. Obviously,
if you read between the lines in the Corinthian correspondence there, he's having a hard time
doing that, that this is off the rails in all sorts of directions. If you go back to Corinth
and take a look at what that is, and this is shocking, I think, and here I would challenge
my New Testament colleagues or whatever. Have you read, Pasanias? He went through Corinth and took
a good look at it. He gives a detailed description of what this city was like, and that's where the
letter was written. It was written to people living there. Unlike the gospels, we know who
the readers were, more or less, of these texts. Why aren't we studying the hell out of Corinth at
this point? Why is it that we could go to New Testament programs all across the country and no
one's reading Pasanias? You have Pasanias right here. Yeah, I do. I've got the little volume here.
Why aren't we doing that? It's because I think our project isn't to try and contextualize it fully.
That's a scary project in its own right, and I don't know that a lot of New Testament people are
heavily trained in that. Masters degree programs, and they're not reading
Pasanias' trip to Corinth in his detailed description. He walked around Corinth and took notes.
He talked about what the city, and it was chock-full of myth. Think of modern Kathmandu or
something like that. People are held to be deities. There's cults on every corner. There's a superstition
as rife. This is percolating. It defines the architecture of the city, all of the statues,
and symbols. It's just chock-full of that. You've got nearly a million inhabitants in the first
century. Even the most modest estimation would be half a million. We've got a lot of people stuck
in maybe a four or five square mile area that are constantly faced with all of the religious
cultic activity. If you go and actually read Pasanias' second book, which is him, his trip to
Corinth, you'll get a very vivid and very dense kind of picture of what the bustling lifelike
culturally was for people that lived in Corinth. This was where that first church plant was at.
These were people that lived in Corinth that had been swimming in this for a long time before Paul
showed up. Just to emphasize something about this that you brought up about, his point is not arguing
what Christian apologists are technically trying to do with this text. That is Paul saying, if
Christ be not raised, we are stuck in our sins left. The whole point they want to know is that
Paul's trying to emphasize Jesus' real literal resurrection. This is historiographical. It really
happened. That's what modern apologetics is trying to say. If he wasn't literally raised in the
literal sense of actually this kind of ontological way of not seeing it cultic or mythic, we're
still stuck in our sins. That's kind of how they're painting it. You're suggesting the context
is maybe Paul is saying that as the cultic belief. The context is not even that. Is Paul
trying to eschatologically convince like he does in 1 Thessalonians? I get some of your
loved ones have died. We get that, but don't worry. We who remain adored. They're going to be the
first to go up. There is this resurrection of our bodies that's going to take place. He's using
Jesus as this translation kind of fable trope and incorporating a resurrection idea to kind of
validate. Don't worry. We'll also be raised because Jesus was raised, but then he ascended.
How would you say about that? For those of you that are accepting, basically Paul's argument
is something like some say there isn't a resurrection of the dead. We could see some
other traditions that might look like that in early Christianity, a more mundane kind of Jesus.
Others are willing to accept that there were appearances. He goes there with it. What he's
trying to do is pull people into, okay, if you're accepting any of this, then come on over to my
side and accept resurrection of the dead as an idea in terms of an eschatological idea. Some are
saying that doesn't exist, that there is no resurrection of the dead in terms of eschatological
resurrection is what he's referring to there. He's trying to say, look, you already are accepting
that he's translated and let's just call that a resurrection of sorts. If you're already accepting
that, then come on over. Now, it's not that if Christ was not raised, then we're wasting our
time and this is all stupid. I don't think that's quite what he's saying there. That's often how
it's interpreted. What he's saying is you're still dead in your sins. Your faith has been
pointless at this point. You're still dead. In other words, you're not raised.
There was this idea that, and you see it in John even, this idea that the resurrection,
oh, you mean at the end of the age? I am the resurrection. Yeah. Whoever believes in me
is basically it's now. You're already there. You are transformed. You're reborn.
There's some of that going on there, but basically he's doing some rhetorical tricks there that
aren't exactly logically sound to try and get people to come aboard with his pet theological idea.
That's really what he's after as you look through early Christian texts. A lot of the kind of feuds
and battles over resurrection wasn't about whether it happened or not. That kind of a discussion
doesn't even seem interesting to people. What was interesting? Yeah. It was what kind of body,
and that goes into, that's hitting the philosophical fray of the ancient world that
had existed before Christianity even stepped onto the scene. The philosophers were already
arguing about what happens when someone ascends or what happens, what's their body made of when,
and so Platonic philosophy, that whole idea is that you're transcending your mortal body,
that you're shedding it. This is a liberating moment. You don't want your body coming along.
You don't want to become physical. You want to shed that as an ideal. We see a lot of
manifestations of that even in Gnostic literature and elsewhere. Paul seems to be kind of in the
Stoic camp in a way where he, it doesn't sound like he's saying shedding it completely. It's
transforming it. So there's a sense of which it's still going to have the body, but it's
completely transformed. It's different than the purely Platonic one that you're saying that.
Yeah. So that would be that Platonic would be psychical. In other words, your soul is
transcending the journey of the soul or whatever. So that would be that concept. That's a little
different than what Paul's did. Paul's, it's pneumatic. It's spirit or wind. You were sowing
one kind of body and raised another. And so he's advocating for, he's registering his own
philosophical kind of place in that larger marketplace of this feud of what bodies are
like, you know, after someone's died. So yeah. Thank you. I can't wait to be translated.
I hope you liked my dad, Richard Miller, in this interview. Remember to like and subscribe
and never forget, we are Miss Miller.
