All right, we're opening 2021 with a bang. It looks like I might be interviewing Jesus Christ himself
This isn't a joke. There's a guy down in Australia who really claims that he is Jesus Christ his wife
Mary Magdalene, it's almost like someone knew Dan Brown was gonna come. It's all predestined. You guys just stick with the story
All right, I'm looking forward to that
I've got a lot of ex-Johovahs witnesses that I'm gonna be interviewing something about Colts man. It just gets me on
I don't know. I really enjoy these topics
Jehovah's Witnesses Mormons
Scientology after seeing Leah Rimney's pretty face talk about that kind of thing. It really is amazing. It makes me like wow
I really need to talk to Scientologists and find out more and just get some stories from them
More with dr. Dennis R. McDonald on his
Diane Nicen gospel. We're gonna get into the gospel of John. We're gonna talk about a lot of mythology this year
I want to get into more stuff. I have a buddy of mine who sent me a lot of Saturn myth books
I'm considering looking into some of this stuff that they think if you will like primitive religions. We're very
astrological based
Not like what we've seen developed later, but the polytheistic
astrology type religions that at one point we're acknowledging
The planetary bodies and stuff like that. I'm interested in getting into some of that stuff. I
Really am looking forward to going and paying a visit to dr. Richard Carrier at some point in California
But I'm gonna have to set up a go fund me when we get close to that
And maybe you guys can help crowdfund making that possible for me to be able to fly over there and interview him like I do
Dr. Price in person
Man, I want to come back with like a hundred videos if possible
I want to come back with all of my my cards full of data
And you guys will have plenty of dr. Richard Carrier content
But better yet more than just hey, can you fund and help make this trip possible?
Your questions will be the ones I'm asking right so this is gonna be you know an investment on your part
And we'll get more of dr. Carrier out there in high-quality
You know camera like that. It's gonna look good. It's gonna sound good
I got good hardware now. Thanks to a good buddy of mine who helped me out
Like I don't really have much gear, but I have enough now to do the job
You know what I mean? Anyway, that's cuz you guys really believe in the true God the God of myth vision podcast
And that God right there is worthy of tithing too. He won't punish you. He will not punish you
You just won't have your name, you know being spoken of when his prophet Derek is asking the questions on the show
Anyway guys, I'm so excited. I want to do more shows. Tell me if there are people out there
That you think are interesting that I should interview and I know I've already got some suggestions from people
Reach out for them do some legwork for me. I'm one man. I'm a one-man army. I'm telling you
I'm so spread out and this isn't my only gig. I work
I work for living to provide for my family because this wouldn't pay the bills right now
I'm trying to get it to that place which is why everyone who becomes a patron
You get early access the videos plus you become a patron member of myth vision
I will also make sure your questions and your suggestions come first
So it's like family, you know if you ask me do you love that person right there that I meet randomly? Yeah
I've got love for people. I love her. I love them. Um, but I love my brother
Like so much more, you know, he's family patron members are family
so you get first dibs for helping out and
And that's something I want is to consider interviewing a lot more people on myth vision
I want you guys to send me who you suggest and maybe do some legwork and find out at least and see if they'd be willing or
Interesting that would make it easier for me. So I'm not having to go fishing and looking in the dark to find people
I
Really really want to do a lot more this year than what I've done last year. I want to make this thing grow
I want to hit on a lot more topics. I really enjoy what I've seen from some of the other channels
as well
I'm glad that this channel is more about inform informing people like giving various views and topics
Going into literal mainstream scholarship as well as some of the outskirts that are more critical and
Fringe according to mainstream
Topics and ideas. I want to bring it all. I want to bring it all
I want you guys to consider new ideas with me and let's see what we got with
2021 and who knows myth vision podcast might prevent a civil war, right?
Who knows there are a lot of religious fanatics out there that buy into things and
Wow
It just shows man. We have a long ways to go ladies and gentlemen as human race
So I love you guys and don't forget that we are
myth vision
