Be sure to check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
Help MythVision grow guys, become a Patreon member.
You guys will get early access to all of my videos when I'm done editing them.
Also it's a small community where you guys can message me your questions and talk to
me in private.
You guys can donate also through PayPal, join our social media links down in the description.
We have Twitter and Facebook groups, help the community of MythVision grow.
Don't forget to subscribe to this channel, hit that bell button so you're notified every
time I do a live video and you don't miss any of my content.
Like this video and comment your thoughts below because I want to know what you think
about all of these things.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back, your host, Derek Lambert, MythVision Podcast.
I'm glad you guys are tuning into the show.
I have a gentleman named Samuel Zenner.
He's going to be joining me today and teaching me and you some controversial stuff.
We're going to be getting into Josephus a little bit and he says he's not going to be
preaching to the choir.
So if you guys are interested in having your feathers ruffled and you're interested in
new information that maybe you haven't heard before, you're going to want to stay tuned.
Do me a favor, go down in the description.
You guys can help MythVision Podcast out in plenty of ways.
If you're interested in helping us grow, hit that like button.
Make sure you share the content, but also down in the description, you guys can check
out my friend Samuel Zenner's academia.edu page.
You guys go check it out.
He's got tons of articles.
He's written on this for many years and in fact, to give you a little insight before
we go ahead and jump in and have him start taking over, Dr. Robert M. Price said, there's
a gentleman you need to get a hold of.
You need to get in contact with and that is Samuel Zenner.
And he says this guy's like all sorts of information that you can be trusted that you really dig
into source material and you're critical, very critical, but also really trying to understand
that I needed to get a hold of you and therefore I got a hold of you and I'm glad that you
responded.
We're somewhere on another planet right now from what I understand.
And so where are you located Samuel and welcome to the channel.
Thank you, Derek.
No, I go back and forth, not so much anymore because of the current international situation,
but I intend to go back and forth between California, but also Casablanca, Morocco and
Tuscany, Italy.
So right now I'm not in California.
So bear with me if the signal drops out now then because the international distance between
us.
Okay, no problem.
So let me ask you this, I've had a couple guys come on and we talk about the typical
stuff with Josephus, but before we did the show, it seemed like you had some insight
on connections between what we gather as the New Testament and Josephus, but maybe we should
focus on just Josephus.
Really, I'm at your mercy.
I'm at your beck and call today.
I want to learn from you what you have to present to us and I'm just interested in hearing
something that I haven't heard before in light of the information we've been reading and
studying for quite some time.
So with that, if you would take us into the heretic land, if you will, and tell us some
things.
But in any case, one could approach Josephus, just for Josephus' sake, but I have a feeling
though that a lot of your readers would be interested to hear about the connection between
Josephus and the so-called New Testament.
But Josephus, yes, this subject is like the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Where the Dead Sea Scrolls were first discovered, the first generation of scholarship had a heavy
emphasis from Christian scholars, mining the Dead Sea Scrolls, the texts, for evidence
of the so-called Jewish background or backgrounds of Christianity.
And so they were really appropriating these newfound Jewish sources for really what's
really somewhat of an alien, not totally, but a totally different field.
So these are Jewish documents.
They were not written and they do not exist now for the sake of Christians who want to
find evidence that will confirm their own beliefs on a theological level, not to say
all scholars are doing that.
But let's be frank, a lot of biblical scholars are trapped in that sort of paradigm because
for the two millennia, scholarship has been in the control of Christians just because
of how history turned out.
And so when you read biblical criticism and church history and theology, you're going
to find it full of anti-Judaic tropes, even anti-Semitism, and that's a field that I
also operated in as a Holocaust scholar, which is one of the reasons I'm very interested
in ancient Jewish literature and also the New Testament.
So it's the same thing.
Josephus was not written for the sake of Christians and for Christians to find evidence
that they're going to find comforting for whatever historical or theological reason.
He was a Jewish priest.
He wrote for Jews.
Of course, he also wrote for a Greco-Roman public.
In fact, we know from Josephus that he wrote two versions of his main work.
The first version he wrote, either Hebrew or Aramaic, but it was the Semitic tongue
and he wrote it for Jews.
And I believe a handful of the scholars do suspect that this so-called Slavonic Josephus
preserves that first Semitic version of Josephus.
However, there are many, many medieval church Slavonic interpolations in that Slavonic
version of Josephus.
But it's easy, I think, to identify those medieval interpolations.
But in any case, the second version that Josephus wrote was then, and that's in Greek,
again, Greco-Roman audience.
Side of, even by critical scholars, because it has important ramifications.
You broke up.
You broke up.
The Greek version was written for the Greco-Roman audience.
For pagan audience, a verbal Roman audience, a pagan audience.
And so this is lost sight of by even a lot of critical scholars because this has a direct
impact on how we are supposed to read and interpret many of the passages, for instance,
even the famous testimonium for Viano, the paragraph about Jesus, for instance.
Writing a paragraph like that, you're going to write it very differently if you're addressing
a Greco-Roman public who doesn't know anything about Judaism, basically, other than that.
Well, maybe there's that strange religion that they do the Sabbath thing and circumcision.
And they're monotheists.
But beyond that, they're not going to know what you mean, messiah.
So you're not going to go there.
You're going to have to use other terminology.
And this has a lot of impacts and implications for understanding some of these passages that many
scholars, you hear them reading the testimony, for instance, as if we're addressing a Jewish audience.
And so it doesn't make sense.
And the entire thing must be just fabricated.
But it's been totally misunderstood by critical scholarship, especially those scholars who just rejected
it totally as a fabrication.
Personally, I think that, yes, Josephus did write something in the Greek version that we have, in the Greek version of the antiquities about Jesus.
And what's interesting about that is many scholars have noticed this, but some downplay it.
But if you look at the placements, right, where Josephus places it, this is not, I'm sorry to say, this is not where Christians would place an interpolation about Jesus, no matter what it said.
No matter what it said about this Jesus, they would not place it there why because it sandwiched in the entire context of discussions.
It was against the Roman Empire. So even the placement of it, you know, is this is not what Christians would want.
They would place it somewhere else.
Now, here are the objections.
And first of all, I'm going to make my point and then justify it for you.
I'm going to make my point and be provocative and in you as a mythist expert can come back with me with all the possible objections and I'll answer them for I'm not.
I'm actually agnostic, by the way, I'm not I don't know if there was or wasn't I'm very open minded to there being a Jesus, by the way, but our audience, the expert can comment down below and tell us how you're wrong.
All right, here's what I'm going to tell you.
Okay.
The, the testimony and flow beyond in its entirety, as we have it in the received text comes from Josephus, it's authentic.
There's not a word that's interpolated in it.
All right.
What, however, everything that Josephus says there has been misinterpreted.
Not only by Christian scholars, but by apologists who are pro Christian, and by a mythist apologists, it's been, it has been completely misunderstood by both.
And I'll give you the first example. This is well how in the world could Josephus as a Jews, not a Christian how could he already starts off the back well.
All right, there was a certain man, first of all, the construction in Greek sort of has a negative, a possible negative connotation to there was a certain man at this time, right what time the times of all of these seditionists, right rebels.
There's a certain man, Jesus, if I should call him a man.
Right, so the idea there is what is supposed to be some kind of God so this is, this is Christian theology. That's not, not at all.
Idiom that Josephus uses you can find it scattered throughout, right, pagan literature. This is a term that you use for individuals that can be considered either positive, it's a positive you're saying something in a positive sense, or in a negative sense.
For instance, this term is used, you know, for, for miracle workers, it's used for Pythagoras, but it's used to Pythagoras by people who are ridiculing Pythagoras, right for for love is esoteric beliefs.
So if you can even call him a man, but what it is it's a basic Gregoroman trope that you apply to individuals who have some kind of reputation for the unusual for the wondrous.
So it has nothing to do with what you see is you're implying, well I'm not going to call him a man because he's God. So that's not it at all.
If you think that's what he said you just ignorant of this pagan trope that you can find scattered throughout Gregoroman pagan literature is not what he's saying at all.
There's another main claim that people just say how in the world could Josephus in the Jewish Christian say that he was the Christ, this Jesus he was the Christ.
Again, this has been totally misinterpreted this because this is not what Josephus says at all remember he's not writing to Jews, he's writing to pagans.
And he starts off and he says, Well, at that time there's a certain man named Jesus. And then some sentences later he says this is the one who's who's called Christ.
That's not he's not saying what he was the Messiah he's saying this is the one that you Greeks have heard about whose name is Christ.
Like how does she in Hebrew backup backup. This, this is the one whose name was called Christ and then you broke out. Sorry.
Right. This is the one whose name was called Christ.
And so what Josephus is writing this to pagans you know nothing about the Jewish term Messiah.
Now Christ us right now Christians would understand that but he's saying that all right this Jesus that I previously mentioned to give you a clue, right you people who you pagans were reading this is the Christ.
This is the one that everyone is going around calling Christ right now, right in this Jesus movement. So he's using it as a personal name, not as a title.
Right rendered in Greek, which is a title for Messiah to translate this you translated as Christ is a personal name, and this is all that Josephus means. So he's giving them a clarification this Jesus is the one that you're hearing everyone calling Christ.
And because that by then, towards the end of the first century common era had become an actual personal name, right, largely out of a lot of ignorance right because all these pagans were converting that movement.
Many of them would not have appreciated the Jewish right context, right for what's Christ us right it becomes a personal name, just like Buddha, right, Buddha was originally a title.
His name was a doctor, but with time right Buddha actually becomes a personal name among his, his, the Buddhists use this now as a personal name. And this is what happened in the early Christian movement.
Louis Feldman, right has written and pointed out that if you, again, if you read the Greek text or to see this, right in the testimonial.
Right.
And then if you read it with the correct audience in mind, you can see how negative it actually comes off. And it's very negative. Right. So, oh, well, yeah, this Jesus.
Who's said the tens of thousands of wonders. This is just mockery. And he's those who he's followed by those who accept the truth gladly. That's not what the grief is saying is, it's implying these.
He's accepted by those who are gullible.
Right. So, anyway, you don't have to amend, right, or change the Greek text, right to be able to get out of it a totally negative statement, and it has no admiration for any of those additionists.
So, so if I might chime in, yeah, I was going to say this is who. Okay, first of all, this is whoa. So what I find fascinating, and I'm not an expert at all in this, but I am so fascinated with this topic.
Okay, and it's not just the Josephus thing like, like, I really want to know what the Jesus character was if you really existed was he just an apocalyptic preacher was the guy some zealot like, you know, real Brandon type Jesus.
And, you know, I try to figure this out. But what I like about what you just brought up is the fact that, and I never really thought about this, I did not know to consider this, and I'm sure I can get some Josephus experts to comment on it.
I'd like to know their thoughts as well, you know, to get there. I like to hear different views, but you're pointing out that there were two types of histories being written of the same thing.
One is to use and one is to the pagans, if you will. And why I think that's interesting is because that will change the context entirely on its purpose, and how how to look at it so you're starting off saying guys before we even get to the passage, we need to know how to look at this
interpretation. We can't look at the text we have right now and say, to the Jews, because then to the Jews, of course, this, this would fit a mythic possible interpretation or some other form of turbine to interpretation that this is interpolated or
completely. I don't know if you know Dave Allen, but he's a guy who's on the Facebook groups that I'm in. He has a negative, he's tried to reconstruct a testimony in Flavinium that is more negative.
And in it, he, he points out some of calcises like issues with the church and things and he's trying his best to kind of go to Tacitus and Eustitonius and plenty and he's trying to point out these guys, not plenty so so to speak but these guys are saying that Jesus was a
racist. His followers were, were pirates and, and, and thieves and all these things, which is really interesting. And the church apologist, you know, origin and others are trying to defend that no no no, he's not that.
And I think, and I don't know, I'm speculating here that there was some such character that was seditious looking in the eyes of the pagan world and people who are gullible were buying into this movement and stuff.
It's just, I never thought to take what we have and say, this is authentic and you should really check this out as is.
You know that audience that was written in any case, I'll give you a citation, you can all check out, but you have to be able to read German, but some this point was really emphasized recently by an in an article in the
2010, one of the numbers of 2010 Journal Novo Testamentum was written by Ulrich Victor, a scholar in Berlin, arguing for the authenticity in a very similar way that I do.
But it's in German. Unfortunately, it's not been translated. I think that a lot of the discussion about Josephus.
Unfortunately, it reflects scholarly knowledge or less than Scott, if you're not a scholar, a lot of people who do talk about Josephus. If you check up their sources is probably 99% in English.
They don't know Russian sources, scholarly sources, German sources, French sources, Italian sources, and all of these are all of these are necessary. If one wants to speak authoritatively about this subject was of course you need to know Greek.
In any case, some of the things when you take this approach some things begin to fall into place. One of them is this.
So, I think most scholars are going to agree that the Luke's Book of Acts definitely reworks some passages from Josephus, including, and most famously, a passage about the different ones that Josephus considered a pseudo messiahs.
The statements, false messiahs and acclaimants, who are all revolutionaries.
And Luke reworks this early on in the Book of Acts.
He mentions the Judah, the Galilean, and others.
Now, all right, so it's generally agreed by New Testament scholars that Luke's Acts has knowledge of the Antiquities, Josephus Antiquities, which is mid 90s of the common era.
So, if you accept the testimonial, Flaviano, right as original, then all of a sudden. All right, now, who was it Gary Goldberg, 1995 article in the journal for the study the pseudopigrapher, right, wrote that there is a literary connection between
in the road to the mass, right, this famous.
There's a literary connection.
Sorry, between Luke's and mass episode, and the testimony in Flaviano.
There's a definite literary connection. There's there is an, there's an idiomatic
phrase that's used, and it's only a tested in Luke, Luke's a mass episode and in the testimony in Flaviano. And this is where Josephus says, and he spent referring to the resurrection, and he spent a third day among them, right among his disciples, which makes no sense.
And as a Pauline Christian language or interpolation, the that was, as we can see in the Gospels, well, he died, Jesus is supposed to have died, and then he goes again on the third day, but Josephus says, he spent a third day with his followers.
And this is actually what Luke says, it's the same idiom. So there's an there's actually so what's happening there. Well, keep in mind, Luke quotes from Josephus in acts, and just five or six chapters earlier so called to get towards the end of his of Luke's gospel he's doing the same.
He's just quoting from a different passage in Josephus. And where is that now that from the testimonial, Flaviano.
So you see evidence already in the Gospel of Luke for the testimonium Flaviano already existing when Luke was writing.
All right, so the next step in this is when was Luke writing.
This takes us now to John the Baptist, if you want to go there.
To figure out more or less when Luke was writing you have to date mark, which is the earliest gospel. Right, and then Matthew comes next, then Luke comes next chronologically speaking that's the majority opinion that I hold to.
Right. And just to be upfront.
I'm not dramatic on the issue of Q, but I'm very doubtful about Q that's my personal opinion because if you, I really am attracted to the arguments of Michael Golder, the late Michael Golder.
When you look at Mark, this earliest gospel.
All right, now if you turn to Matthew, what you can do is you can say, Well, what Matthew has done is added material to mark, he rearranges things because any author, right, who's writing on a subject that's already been written on, likes to, likes to change things.
Right, so Matthew rearranges things chronologically he rephrases turns of phrase and all this.
But he has his own sources, which I do believe that that Matthew had some sources, but it's just not cute, but he did have some sources that were not available to mark.
And this is how he fills out a lot of his gospel. Of course, he makes up a lot of it, just as the author has the right to do, right, in a new work.
But then Luke comes along if you look at Luke, what Luke looks like to me is that Luke now has Mark and Matthew at hand, basically follows Matthew's program.
All right, gotta have a birth, a birth narrative a birth nativity story.
Right.
And then Matthew started the whole thing about resurrection of stories so I got to have some of that too.
Anyway, so that's what that's most plausible to me.
So but I'm not dogmatic. I'm not going to say there was no cute, but I lean towards Golders paradigm, which is there was mark.
And then Matthew added to mark and Luke added to mark and Matthew.
And then John comes even later.
And I'm thoroughly convinced and I think anyone who really wants to be honest with themselves will recognize that yes, John knows the synoptic Gospels.
Anyway,
now, how do we date mark.
Well, I think we can do it with the John the Baptist story.
How do we do this.
Now my argument is, and I know even some mythos is going to disagree with me on this, but I do believe that marks account.
John the Baptist and his beheading is taken from Josephus is informed by Josephus antiquities, which is mid 90s.
Right now, so what are the objections to that. Well, one objection is, well, yeah, but you see Josephus and his story of John the baptizer mentions a retus and retus is an important part of the story.
And this is not the case with mark.
The dating is off also that's one of the arguments I've heard.
Well, with all due respect and I do respect those objections but on the other hand, mythos to this to who have made those objections.
At the same time, I have no problem with saying well the Josephus story of Jesus.
This is the basis for the gospel story of Jesus and Nazareth's passion.
Well, that's totally, I actually do believe that's the case. However, I mean, it's almost 40 years off.
There's no Pontius pilot there.
It's a double standard if you're not, if you're going to accept that Jesus has been anonymous story as an as an influence on the gospel's story of Jesus passion.
Then there's really, there's, there's no valid reason methodological reason not to accept that Mark could have taken the John the Baptist story from Josephus antiquities to just change things around.
And the other differences Josephus says that a hair that John the Baptist beheaded because he feared that John the Baptist could foment a rebellion.
Well, Mark, of course, is not going to repeat that he doesn't want anyone to know the john anyone in the Christian movement, some of the founders, john the baptize Jesus, but I've had any thing to do.
Like with the possibility or even being perceived as fomenting sedition.
Right. So of course he changes the reason why, but there's another clue that that has been overlooked. And to my knowledge, no one has picked up on this.
I picked up on this many, many years ago, while reading Josephus if you look at the 18 book of the antiquities to sentences in the Greek to sentences before Josephus begins his john the baptizer paragraph.
He talks about Tiberius, who has been informed by Herod against her eaters. So the head is incensed at our eaters and Herod informs Tiberius and tells Tiberius, I want our eaters beheaded.
I want his head.
This is just two sentences before the story of john the baptizer. Now, Josephus does not tell us how john the baptizer was executed. You have no idea. He doesn't tell us he was beheaded.
So my theory is that Mark has read the desired beheading of her eaters by Herod into the his john the baptizer story.
And he just shifts it and applies it to john better.
Matthew borrows the, the detail of john's beheading from Mark Luke get borrows it from Matthew and Mark john does not mention it.
The Quran does not mention the beheading of john the baptizer man day and sources, which think very highly of john man day and have no clue they have no idea about any beheading tradition, not about john the Baptist.
So if one wants to buy into that then we would have to take Mark.
At the earliest, a little after the mid 90s.
But I would think it would have to be a little bit later, because it's not as if Mark was standing in line right for Josephus to publish his antiquities, right in 9394 of the common era, and second home and wrote his gospel the next day.
So it would have taken some time for things to incubate for stories to be identified that could be used for the working and paraphrasing.
So,
I mean that would be my guest to that would be my guest to Samuel is that, you know, one of the interesting things to me I always thought about when people try to date the Gospels and they go well we know he knows about the war.
So the war happened in 70 to 73.
He wrote it in 74. It's like almost like really like the dust hasn't settled. I mean, guys, he's probably trying to the Empire is trying to figure out how they're going to solve a lot of problems.
I don't know if he'd even have the leisure of sitting down and writing at his desk and coming up with this extensive history. So I suspect a lot of stuff started to take place and then once he wrote it.
That needed to get out to the public or at least to the to the people who are well educated and read, and then from there they would be able to decipher and come up with this mythology if you will historical fiction about their Christ figure for their own movement.
But I find it fascinating and I wanted to touch on one thing before we end up moving forward because I know you're going to keep going that I think is important.
Why would Mark, why would Matthew, why would Luke, why would John want to avoid the seditious movement.
Look at what happened in 70. They know better than to have anything opposing Rome. They know not to have something at odds. They just had a cataclysmic apocalypse take place a few years prior.
In fact, I am prone to think and suggest that a lot of the prophetic statements and mark maybe Matthew and even Luke gives a hint at it doesn't really dwell too hard on it, gives this idea of a, this huge cataclysmic issue with the temple's
destruction and with war, if you will, that's coming. And so I think that that was such a monumental thing.
If anyone in the right mind wouldn't say, Oh, by the way, our Lord and master was, he didn't like these guys and, yeah, Jesus, the seditious leader. No, no, thank you. I doubt I'm going to get my head taken off by a Roman.
After what happened a few years ago, no thank you let's rewrite this thing let's make sure, but the movement still survived after the war.
Or do you think that the movement, or do you think the movement was created after the war. I don't know. I'm just throwing out an idea there.
Well, first of all, I would say, but even though I believe the testimony on the honor comes.
All of it comes from Josephus as a historian, you can't say well there you go that proves the historicity of Jesus because this is near the end of the first century so it doesn't.
But it is important. I think just for the sake of history, to get our facts straight. Well, there was this movement that did exist at that time. And we can see how at least the outlines of that movement from what Josephus is writing.
I do I think that.
And I'm saying think I don't claim to know, right because in history and scholarship you're dealing with degrees of probability and reconstruction of degrees and determinations degrees of probability.
That's yes or no.
Sometimes, yeah, I guess that you might historians might be able to deliver a yes or no, but in general, on these topics we're really talking about well what, how can we classify these different events, right on scales of probability.
You know, we want to know what was more probable.
Right, as opposed to less probable.
That that's all one can do, but my own personal viewpoint for my own research, just for me. Right. Yeah, I do think that there was a movement right.
Probably from the 30s of the common era.
And Paul.
The, there's this agreement about, you know, which letters in the New Testament are actually written by him, the main view of course is you know, it's the golden seven right there's seven undisputed letters.
I would say that you could probably whittle that down to maybe five, because the in former times at least there was a lot of doubt about Philippians especially on the part of Jewish authors Leo back the famous theologian Jewish philosopher who survived the
wrote an essay where he addressed this question. Also, I think that there's a lot to be said for the point that well if you're going to say that second Thessalonians is apocryphal or sort of a graphical you should be consistent and lump first Thessalonians together with that.
I think either both of them have to be authentic or they both have to be inauthentic. Right. So I sort of lean, lean towards that right that they're probably they're probably both inauthentic written by some just two different disciples of Paul.
Interesting. The first Thessalonians doesn't resemble anything in the rest of the polling letters there's no doctrine of, you know, faith and grace.
In any case.
So, yes, I do think that there was this Paul, writing in the in the 40s, early 50s, and he came into conflict with popularly known as James the just or Jacob the righteous, who I personally think was Jesus brother.
That takes you into the whole subject of so called Jewish Christianity, which we can go there.
No, no, no, we'll save those for other shows. We'll save those for other shows.
Thank you. Just being upfront I'm telling you that that's, you know, that's my personal viewpoint based on my research is several decades. I know other scholars who have done research for as many, if not more decades who come to different
opinions. That's fine.
I'm just telling you, you know what what I've come to.
Yeah, that's perfect.
Right, so if Mark is about 100 of the common 100 of the common era.
Right then Matthew and Luke have to be later.
And, you know, at least as fast I know Dennis McDonald dates Luke to about roughly 115 or so of a common era.
I know he said 120 on the phone the other day when I call them so
roughly roughly.
Yeah, in the ballpark, which makes sense. So that means that Luke is probably aware of the kind of wars right on 1517 Jewish, the second Jewish rebellion, if you will, scattered
against the Republic, technically speaking, the second war was really the Bacock or revolt, right, in the 130s, but there were these scattered, but very devastating Jewish uprising is Rome, known as the Kitos war,
right, 115, 117 of the common era, which decimated Jews in Egypt and Alexander, for instance, was from just utterly devastating.
So Luke, right, is writing after all of that.
Right, so there's probably even more of a renewed
poignancy, I guess, to the whole thing in the Gospels about the destruction of the temple, right, and all conflict that led up to 70 of the common era.
Right, so that just reopening old wounds.
So, but in any case. So, there you go and then john, I would date to post barcode for various reasons.
There's an article I don't know if it's been published yet in the Journal of Higher Criticism on that subject, right, trying to give the evidence for why we should look at why we should date john as post barcode documents.
Of course, there are a lot of scholars that gathering who would say even Mark should be dated to after barcode was possibility. I lean towards, you know, near 100 to somewhere after that.
Let me ask you a question.
So I think there was that movement, right, and the early phase of it was the, the tension, the outright animosity between Paul and James.
Yeah, let me ask you a question about the arguments I hear from a lot of people such as Dr. Carrier and, and such that will say, if the testimonium flavinium exist right which this kind of flips the whole thing on its head when you point out some of the things that
they say stuff like why didn't church fathers use this evidence? Well, I want to answer that.
Because it's very, very negative.
It's denigrating Jesus. Right.
Beginning to the end.
So I want to work through that real quick with you because this is interesting. They make the argument that it's not there, right. And if what you're suggesting can you hear like feedback is there a negative feedback coming through?
Not on my but if you hear it, I can turn down my audio a little. I wonder if it's me. No, I just wonder if it's me. I'm just making sure it comes through for audience to kind of get a little better now.
You sounded fine. It was I think it was me.
So let me take you through what I'm what I'm thinking in the arguments I've heard so far.
And I don't know them exhaustively. So they'll say what we were just talking about, and you'll point out it's negative. Why would you use an argument from something that doesn't show shine a good light on your Lord.
And the place where, as I say, the context is sandwiched between the whole history of these false messiahs of sedition.
Right.
So why do you want to bring attention to that if you're a Christian theologian.
So technically, and what I what I like about your argument is it actually pushes things earlier than having to go all the way to Eusebius because from what I what I hear people say is Eusebius comes on the scene, and he uses similar language.
This is their argument that I've heard and you probably know this way more exhaustively than me.
I'm familiar with all the terms.
They use Luke's or Eusebius uses Luke's language to interpolate that passage and place it in the place that it did which is like, there's so many reasons to be skeptical of that like you said why would you place it in the seditious section.
Even the chronology, and in other respects a Christian will not put it there, because when you read Josephus then it would appear that he contradicts the gospel's chronology, which is John dies first and then Jesus with chronology and Josephus because of the placement of the testimony
does not agree with that so that's not where Christians would have put an interpolation about Jesus.
Interesting, so if you buy into that chronology had a different chronology in their in their four gospels.
So, in a sense, and I kind of want to end on this note and then ask this question I think is that that the idea, the argument that mythicist do is they push in the third fourth century by saying look it wasn't invented till later and why didn't they quote this amazing passage which you point out isn't so amazing.
The other point I wanted to say is, if you look at this, this passage, the early church fathers, the patristic writers, origin and others which he's no longer a saint, for reasons we can go in a whole different show about, but
he's not a father of the church. Right, right. I mean, and he had some views that they definitely did not later on consider Orthodox, but I wanted to ask you, these guys are fighting against people like Kelsus.
Can you give us a little insight on what you found like what.
Do you think these guys like Kelsus see this and they're going. Are you guys kidding me, Josephus tells us, you know, do you not think that they see these sources or know about the sources and they're looking at him going you could you Christians your
leaders as sophist. There's, you guys are band of thieves, your pirates like Kelsus's argument and contra Kelsus with origin.
Do you think some of these guys who are arguing against these fathers or these, these Christian apologists are using this source in a negative way because that's what it is.
I have to go on a case by case study.
That hasn't occurred to me before to look into a question like that.
Of course, of course, Kelsus.
The, the negative claims that he has about Jesus.
Many of those can be found right in later attested in later forms in later Jewish sources, which I'm sure you're familiar with right and
do you think they were found in those sources or do you think those sources may have got them from Kelsus I guess because it's kind of.
Kelsus is, you know, a real philosopher I would say, we wouldn't really expect all, you know, all of these great philosophers, the philosophers to have a copy of Josephus, for instance, right.
I mean, why would they, why, I mean, sir, they have their plates, depending on the date, right, later, you know, Plotinus, Proclas, right, but then earlier, that doesn't need a tonic earlier,
I mean, they would have sources like that and stomach writings and such.
Why would someone like Kelsus have a copy of Josephus on hand.
I would just think, I mean, maybe this is speculation, but I would just think that he would argue against the Christians because he probably knew of a source that spoke about this issue, if he's trying to take him.
He does, he does well enough.
Right.
With or without Josephus, right, he had all of his main arguments.
One more question I have before we in this episode, because we look, I really want to work with you more. I love this show. This conversation has been great.
I'm sorry that the connection for those watching. It's a little in and out here and there. You guys, like I said, he's on Mars. Okay, he's on another planet right now and it's it's difficult to get the connection coming through.
That's, that's kind of what happens, but I'm very I value this I cherish this information that you're bringing. And one more question I have that comes to mind is this Crestus character.
Is this a whole different seditious guy. I mean, you mentioned that a title can be attributed to the guy Buddha, for example, becomes his name Christ becomes his name.
So that was the title. He ends up being named this and so Crestus and tacitus. What is going on. I know this could take us into a whole nother show but can you briefly give us an appetizer.
This is something where I would say the there's legitimate diversity of opinion on this among attached scholars.
I would say that, for instance, you know, looks acts, where he mentions the expulsion from Rome of Jews, I believe that he's picking this up from from from, from, from spontaneous.
Because if you look at, well, let's see if you look at tacitus with Tony saw this it's it's it's very interesting the timing there fits with at least McDonald's dating of Luke.
So I think that they also have influenced Luke. So I can go that far. So, yes, there may be some relation between this Crestus.
And, and the crystals.
Maybe.
Interesting. Interesting. Well,
So I can't be more dogmatic about that.
I don't want you to be I mean, I'm, I'm glad just to hear opinions because that's what makes this so fun to me I used to be a dogmatist being a fundamentalist Christian, then I was a staunch mythosist and couldn't I kept scratching my head going.
How could anyone think this guy existed. Well, that's what ignorance can do and so I started to learn more and understand and as I've been learning as I'm currently doing right now you're teaching me.
I'm beginning to realize I'm not saying there was and I'm not saying there wasn't. I'm not saying that there couldn't be a mythosist angle on this that makes sense or even a composite of characters as ga wells concluded his life in and that he thinks there's
something there like a composite, but he wasn't a staunch mythosist.
I'm truly seeking to know what the options are, and I'm thankful that you don't go. Oh yeah, Crestus was him he was running around and 50 something the chronology is mistaken and here's the truth.
I like people who do that too but my point is just because someone comes across with an argument, I don't just believe it I even tell Dr price this, and he wants to adopt me as his son, he says, you know, here's what I think and then I say you know what I'm going to take what you
say and be critical of what you say Dr price and he goes, please do that's why I love you and I was like, thank you because I don't. I'm not going to follow anyone just because they seem authoritative or they sound good.
I will consider their evidence, put it in my little shelf of my research in my head, and then later down the road I can make my own mind up on what I want to do but um, thank you for this information so far I never thought to say
a lot of these sources like that.
A lot of these ancient sources historians like that is like Tony us modern readers and scholars, we have to avoid hubris or have to be humble and recognize that actually, there are some things that these ancient historians are writing about that we just are lacking the key to know
they're really alluding to that you know a piece of the puzzle has gone missing. It was clear to them and to their readers at that time, but many points will just be lost to us and then were forced into
speculation based on knowledge that we do have and try to come up with probability scales but that's about for a lot of these questions that's all that we can really do.
Yes, sir.
Well if there's anything you'd like to say to an audience before we go what would you like to say there same.
I would say, I don't think it's those who follow my work is no mystery.
In, in the tension between the early Jesus movement and the, the rabbinic movement that was sort of taking off at the time within Judaism, my studies, right.
And I would say that, you know, when one talks about for me that the term myth is not have a majority of connotation for me I used it simply in the etymological sense right in Greek.
And it's, it's a narrative. These are stories, of course, humans are storytelling animals.
And, right, if familiar with time to music literature, for instance, not everything that you read in there about discussions of the different rabbis is meant to be taken in a historical sense.
And then Midrash, and sacred legends, these are stories that are made up, not to be read as history, but in order to inculcate ethics and morals, or to get some theological point across.
So I would say that even the Gospels, for instance, if, if everything is not historical that doesn't have to be taken in a majority sense because I think that some of what's going on there too, right, maybe
you look at the parables, of course, this applies to that, to those that stories are made up in order to
promote morals, ethics, sometimes to get a certain theological point across. And here, of course, you can see the ecumenist in me is coming across, right, because for decades I have been involved in ecumenical work.
So I have my own, my own personal views about, you know, I try to be, you know, charitable. I mean my monities, right, one of the greatest
medieval Jewish theologians, Jewish authorities and jurists, right, believe that for instance Christianity, right, was a providential development, right, even though Jews don't accept all Christian claims, you know, in my monities
didn't see the hand of Providence in his viewpoint for this because this movement, even though Jews do not accept Jesus as Messiah, but that movement that Christian movement brought monotheism to the nations, right, so
I try to be as charitable as I can, right, on these issues. And even if you want dates, the gospel's late as I do, I'm not implying there's no historical basis to them, that's not what I'm implying.
I'm just happy to be historian and I like to work with all the little details.
Yes, you did.
Date things, right, and try to find parallels and sources and all of this.
So, dating the gospels is not a part of some ideological program on my part.
And to harm anyone's particular faith or whatever. It's just as a historian, these things are deeply intriguing to me.
I have much respect for that. Thank you so much. I know I can learn so much more and we will. I hope to have you join us again. Ladies and gentlemen, go down in the description.
You can help out Samuel Zenner. Check out some of his stuff. Check out his articles. You definitely want to read him. This is a gentleman that Dr. Robert M. Price learns from and researches and really goes to find information.
I mean, he's done a lot of studying. He continues to do this. He goes into the sources and you can tell he thinks very critically about some of these ideas and so I really do appreciate you joining me today, Samuel.
And let's have you come back again. Let's talk about some other stuff and I really do appreciate it. That's all I can say.
You're welcome. It's my pleasure. Thank you. And for those of you who are watching, I don't know if cognitive dissonance plays a role if you have amnesia, whether or not you just are telepathically leaving your mind.
But in case you do forget, don't. We are MythVision.
.
