A lot of times I get comments from people who are Christians asking me because they don't like
how critical sometimes I am of Christianity. I was one. What would it take to convince you?
What would it take for you, Derek, to believe Christianity is true again?
What's interesting about this question, let's break this down for one second, is
this is the same question you might get from a Muslim apologist about Islam.
This is the question you might get from some other worldview. What would it take? And usually
the question comes from a questioner who is of that particular faith. So I've had conversations
just to paint a little picture of the background before I answer this question,
where my own family, my mother, my sisters, and I would sit at Christmas or somewhere in the
conversation of religion, Christianity, Jesus would come up and we would talk and they'd ask me
and I politely have these conversations knowing that the things I think are going to be offensive
to those who literally believe that their beliefs, their faith is true. And also, if you don't believe
in their Christianity, what will happen to the sinner, to the person who does not believe
after they die? Most Christians that I walk into in this world believe in some form of torment,
whether it's annihilation or conscious torment for all eternity. But when I answer,
I don't think this is true. I think legend myth is laden in the narratives of Jesus,
that Jesus did not do the things that are described of him in those respects. One can
argue whether or not some mundane, apocalyptic, charismatic Jew actually did teachings and had
a following. I don't deny that that's probably likely. What I say is what we see in the Gospels
are narratives. You can't sift through that legend and narrative and be overly confident on what's
in the material as if that material of what it's saying about Jesus actually occurred. Since it's
so legendary laden. Now, here's the deal. As soon as I tell my mom, my sisters and them,
that I don't find it convincing anymore. I don't find it something that is true. In fact, I find
every reason to think it's man-made. They look at each other almost like at that moment. Either
they didn't like what was said and it triggered them and they turned at each other and said,
he'll eventually come around. He'll realize he's wrong. Now, just apply that to any other world
view. Islam, Hinduism, whoever's faith, their particular background, they might view this
the same way. So then we go, well, how do we know which one's the true one? And I told them,
I was a little offended by it. I said, what's really odd to me is you all know how much time and
energy I've spent studying and researching the context, the milieu, the surrounding world
to this belief because as far as this particular movement, all we have is the cultic material
from those who are in the belief, in the cult and they don't even see eye to eye.
You read Paul's letters, many fundamentalists are those who really are apologetics type
online. They will make this big case and try to act like it's so convincing. If you read Paul's
letters, their churches that are filled with the Numa of God, the Holy Spirit, don't seem to know
how to act. They're not being transformed on that level. I mean, Paul has to deal with over and
over and over so much everyday normal life stuff that you would imagine if God's spirit was actively
involved in these communities. This wouldn't be the case. But let's put that aside. I say to my
family, that's kind of, I don't know, I feel a little bit disrespected, that you just assume
that your worldview is the correct one, that this belief is true. So then it kind of reverses and
I get these comments online because I'm always critical. Well, Derek, what would it take
since you don't think it's true? And I want you to walk with me for one moment.
I used to literally believe that God created the heavens and the earth. I was a young earth
creationist. I went into old earth creationism. I started going into the John Walton kind of
trying to take a more historical ancient Near Eastern context and incorporate that while
being a believer. And I did toward the end of my beliefs. That's where I started going in Christendom.
But I started realizing holy smokes, these narratives in the Hebrew Scriptures,
in the Old Testament, look awfully similar and have a lot of the attributes to the surrounding
mythic and legendary material around them. It wasn't Jesus yet that I was willing to swallow
that pill. It was people like Samson looking like Heracles. It was people like Adam and the Genesis
account that clearly are riffing off of legendary mythical material on flood narratives that are
found in Mesopotamia that are also mythical. It is when I started to look and see why do I think
this one's right, especially when you start recognizing that it is dependent on the mythical
material in some cases. In other cases, we can't prove genetically which one borrowed from which.
But what we can do is use our brains and realize, oh my goodness, this looks very much like,
let me give you an example. I've got a video coming out this Sunday. I'm going to premiere it.
I hope you tune in. Let's debate. Let's discuss. Let's have a blast in the chat and watch the video.
It will be almost three hours long on the myth of Joseph in the Bible.
Joseph in Genesis, the dreamer. Code of many colors. When you realize how much he has in
common with ASAP's romance or ASAP's fables, which comes later, but the romance is earlier,
or the Aikar myth from Elephantine, or when you realize how he has mythic motifs in the
romance myth genre to that of Odysseus, where Odysseus comes back from the Trojan War and
his identity is hidden. They do not want the identity to be seen. So what happens? You have
recognition scenes, instant and delayed, mostly delayed. Eurycleia, the dog, Argos,
his son, Telemachus, Laertes, his dad. And of course, one of the big peaks is Laertes and his
wife, Penelope, after he kills the suitors for Athena, because Athena wanted vengeance and she
wanted her warrior, Odysseus, to do so. Once you recognize that this is what the Genesis
account is doing with Joseph, hiding his identity, he purposely toys with the people,
his brothers, who don't know that it's him. He toys with them. He gives them hell a little.
Well, Odysseus does the same thing in the Odyssey. And here's the fun fact. The Odyssey goes into
way more detail. So those who want to make historical cases, go to your Odyssey. Read your
Odyssey. You can get this collection pretty cheap here. Okay. This is Homer, Virgil and the Odyssey
and Robert Fagels. I think it's Fagels. This is an amazing set. Read the Odyssey. Get it on Audible.
There is way, way more detail in this than there is in the Bible. And I'm saying we know the genre.
Classicists don't have a religion clouding their vision on understanding the material they're
reading. And many Christians who are far more intelligent or educated in the field recognize,
okay, okay, we're not dealing with like literal history. But maybe there's a memory here. Maybe
you can't prove there is until you have actual good evidence to back that claim up. But this is
what they do. So when I realized that was happening, I continued progressing further into this research,
realizing, oh my gosh, you know who else has delayed recognition scenes? Jesus. Not only
while he's alive in Mark, where he doesn't want people to know who he is, but also in his post
resurrection scene on the road to Emmaus in Luke 24, he shows up to the guys and they don't even know
it's him. And he's asking them questions. What's going on? Are you the only person in Israel who
doesn't know Jesus has died and he was the Messiah? We thought he was going to be the Savior of Israel.
And eventually, once he goes into the house, which is a theoxy, it's also a hospitality
myth genre. So in the ancient world, it was accustomed to treat your strangers that you
don't really know who they are with respect and kindness, giving them food, giving them shelter,
all of that. We see that with Abraham and Lot. We see this also in the Greek world, in the Roman
world with Ovid in his metamorphosis. He talks about Bacchus or he talks about Philemon and Bacchus.
Yeah, the husband and wife who treat Mercury and Jupiter as, you know, just treat them with all
respect and they end up getting blessed in the end. And then there's a deluge of the city.
It's really, really interesting. This is what we see happening with Jesus. He's not recognized.
He eventually identifies somehow, some way. Some scholars like to postulate that maybe
they broke bread. And this was a symbol of that, that, you know, eat of my flesh, drink of my blood,
covenant kind of interesting New Testament, Dionysian kind of thing that Jesus does.
And what's interesting to me about this is once you see the genre and you have a clear idea of
understanding what that genre is, when people bring in historical verisimilitude or try to
argue the reliability of this, this is really, really interesting because they're ignoring that.
I can grant historical verisimilitude. Yes, people places the things I'm willing to grant
some of the stuff in the Gospels really goes back to memories possibly. I don't think it's
provable, but I think it's possible. Derek, you didn't answer a question. What would it take?
Ah, see, see, I'm avoiding answering your question or I'm trying to give you a solid
build up of why I'm going to answer it this way. I know this isn't a question. This isn't
an if. I don't guess. I know this genre is fitting in the legendary trope. They did this with real
historical people, contemporaneous to Jesus, predates him, postates him, meaning they took
historical figures and they used antiquities, myths and applied the tropes to those people.
Caesar fits the trope of Heracles and the trope of Romulus. So does Jesus.
And we see this on and on. I know this. This is not a question. So once you know that,
then what would it take, Derek? Okay, okay, it's got legendary material, Derek.
You can't be a fundamentalist again. We understand that. That goes for the birth narratives.
That goes for the post resurrection, post ascension, apotheosis. That also goes for miracles.
There's a wonderful book I'm reading right now and it's by, I believe she's a Christian. I don't
want to assume I know her worldview, but she's not your average Joe. And in this book, she goes to
show you that all the miracles that we see in the New Testament have antecedents in Greco-Roman
hero gods, et cetera, where they also did these acts. Water into wine. Good job, Dionysus. Well,
Jesus is going to outdo Dionysus. Healing the blind. Good job, Asclepius, because he was known
to do that often. In fact, we not only see Jesus do this, we also hear of the account of Vespasian.
And this is the problem that I find over and over with Christian apologists. They want to
special plead the New Testament material. Derek, you didn't answer our question.
Ah, I'm avoiding the question. No, let me give you internal in the gospels answers here as to why
or what it would take. Number one, I am 2000 plus years removed from the supposed events recorded
in these texts, genre, biography, mixed in with legend, novel, mixed in with legend,
mixed in with some type of biography here and acts. Don't know. There's such a blend of ideas
that I see happening in the New Testament pinning down the exact genre this material fits in.
That's a tough one. What exact genre would you say? Suetonius is Caesar Augustus
talking about the life of Caesar, specifically the divine Augustus, and his birth narratives come
in and all that and talks about portents. But there's stuff in there that also is very historical
in some ways. What kind of genre would that come in? I mean, is it actual literal history? Well,
why is it going to all this legendary stuff where his mom has, you know, gives birth where
Apollo in the form of a snake slithers up and she has a mark on her so she can't go into the
public baths anymore because they might see it on her leg or thigh might be on her stomach.
I can't remember exactly in the account, but it's extremely fictional yet it's built off
mythical antiquity to contemporary figures. All right, the Gospels. In the Gospels, we have
accounts where even the disciples don't even know it's Jesus. If they don't even know he's the one
in Mark, they don't even know it. They're trying, but they just don't get it over and over and over.
They don't get it in Matthew. Well, I'm not even going to get into the ending of Mark. That's a
whole and other can of worms for endless scholarship on this stuff. In Matthew, at the end of Matthew,
he's on a mountain. He appears in Galilee, clearly riffing off of Mark's tradition.
There is an appearance in Galilee on a mountain. And it says they were worshiping him and that some
doubted. In the English translation, it seems like some doubted. So it sounds like there's like
there's doubts. Whoever wrote this material is hinting at they recognize that people aren't going
to buy this. Either they're writing for that breaking the fourth wall for the reader to keep
them convinced that, hey, we understand doubts, doubts are expected, or they're getting doubts
from the outside and they're creating this so that people who are in the cult will recognize this has
been solved. They were doubted, but it was overcome by Jesus. Don't worry. Then you get to Luke and
John and John is the fun one. I've written an article on academia and I called it the minimal
doubts argument. In the material of the New Testament, we have a doubting tradition
where the Christian apostles themselves, the disciples themselves, doubt Jesus resurrection.
Now they are lucky, according to the material, because Jesus actually helps overcome their doubt.
He actively makes sure that they see his post-appearance, his post-resurrection appearance.
He even goes so far and hear me out. Thomas hears Jesus has risen. The other disciples
say he rose. He rose. Thomas doesn't believe them. He doesn't take their word to the bank.
Good for Thomas. He's not gullible. He doesn't just accept what people say. That is me.
So what would it take? Well, if there's a God and if Jesus is his son and he also somehow connected
to the God, Father, etc., Trinity or not, doesn't matter. He would know what it would take
and you would think he'd have enough mercy with someone like me who sincerely
would love to know if this was true. If this was the C.S. Lewis one true myth of all the
myths that are in the world. If this is the one and if he really loves that much, either he doesn't
care that I don't believe because in the end it doesn't even matter. He doesn't exist or
he needs to appear just like the texts say of him where he's going to show up to Thomas
and overcome the doubt. He will personally make sure that I'm convinced he will appear
and solve this problem. This is what it would take and then you'd have to ask yourself, right?
Because we have modern science. We understand things they didn't understand. A lot of things.
They didn't understand germ theory. We know that now. They didn't understand a lot about cosmology
and science. We know that now. A lot when it comes to this. Also mental illnesses. I'm sure they had
hints that stuff wasn't right, but they would attribute stuff to demon possession,
but there might have been mental health issues involved. The question then becomes,
well, what if I hallucinated and I saw something and you know what's interesting
about this? This is where it's very difficult. I'm saying I've never experienced anything like that
and I've tried to put myself into trans worship situations at church. I have purposely begged
God while in church, in those worshipy kind of, the music's going and I'm literally at
his feet saying, show me, you know, I'm your child. Give me bread. As the gospel say,
will he give you a stone if you ask for bread? No. I really, really wanted verification,
validation. I wanted to go further than what I had seen naturally in the world my whole life.
And I never got that. Not on that level. I've had put myself into experiences through the music,
through the trance, hypnosis kind of states, through Christianity's
furniture in these kind of environments, but I've never actually experienced the reality
of any of these things. That's what it would take and if you, as a Christian, don't realize that
that is normal, that people should expect that, that that would be a rational position to hold to
and that would be something that anyone should want. I mean, imagine someone tomorrow tells you
Vishnu. If you're a Christian watching, imagine someone tells you Vishnu is the true God from
Hinduism or Muhammad is the final prophet or whatever. You might respond, I'd need really
good evidence to prove that you'd have a high epistemic requirement in order to overcome that.
And I don't blame you. It just comes down to this one, this particular belief.
So, going with the doubting tradition within the New Testament and seeing an example where Jesus
was willing to overcome Thomas's, well, if this is true and if he loves me and I've asked for this
in the past, my mom has told me, Derek, he's going to reveal himself to you. He will. He's
going to reveal himself to you. Okay, well, if that happens, then we'll see. But the other problem
is this, bringing up the mental health things. What if, as time goes by and I've done damage to
my body from my past experience in drug addiction, what if my brain starts to go,
starts to stop functioning on the same level it once did and I become susceptible, gullible to
things. My brain isn't operating right. I start seeing things. And what if I start seeing a different
God or different deity? Do we just say that's a demon because our tradition's true no matter what?
Is it true no matter what? That's how it appears to me for apologists. There is nothing that can
convince them. They have built up. Most of the apologists I've encountered, they have built up
built up an unfalsifiable empire. They claim, oh, no, you can falsify it. Just get us this.
Then when you actually start showing fictional material, for example, with the undesigned
coincidence folks, and you could show that there is undesigned coincidence material. Oh, well,
not crisscross. And it doesn't go back and forth. Dude, this material is dependent. That's the,
I can't even get past the first step with people like this. That's what irritates me a lot is
it's like, holy freaking smokes. Well, I don't even know. I can't even, I can't even win these people.
You ever seen that video on YouTube from one to 10? I can't even. I can't even. Like, that's how I
feel when I hear this, this whole thing. Eric Manning the other day played a C.S. Lewis section
in one of his videos. C.S. Lewis is not a New Testament scholar. Number one, the guy was like
a theologian at best. But the guy was he literally says something in there about the Holy Virgin
birth from Mother Mary, something like that. And I'm going, oh, my gosh, dude, go read Plutarch.
Plutarch talks about Plato being born, where his mother was a virgin. And it was the Numa
in Denimos. He uses the same Greek words that are found in Luke, describing the birth of Plato,
a divine birth that is not sexually related. There's no God involved sexually. I mean,
it never ends. I see mythic. I see legendary. I see verisimilitude. None of that makes this even
remotely believable. None of it. They ignore the whole legendary. They ignore the mythical. They
ignore the contradiction issues. They ignore that. And they want you to try and focus on things that
somehow there was a real guy who actually existed this time who ruled in a certain region.
Somehow they knew the geography. Just read some of this, what we know as
fictional novel epic, we know, and nobody's trying to make this literally historically true.
But they got regions, places, kings, actual cities, the whole nine. They got those things accurate.
What the heck, dude? So what would it take Jesus actually showing up and actually changing and
overcoming my doubts? That is what it would take for me to be convinced of believing in the worldview.
And then, like I said, even if I believed it, I would not expect anyone else to,
based on my own personal subjective experience. But someone could bring in and question my rationale.
How's Derek's mind working? Can we actually know that he actually experienced that?
Can we actually know that he's not losing his mind? What the heck? So painting it up to you,
that's where I've taken my bar of requirement to be believable. I need that to be overcome.
And your own tradition granted that Jesus did that to some of his own people. Well, if he loves me
and he wants me to believe, then he'll overcome it. See, my Calvinism in the past kicks in because
I had a certain time of my Christianity became Calvinistic. And it's like, yeah, well, it's
obvious he doesn't want you to believe. And he doesn't love everyone. When I was Calvinist,
I recognized that he loved those he died for. I thought that was me. And that his atoning blood
was only for those he had predestined and, you know, elected. I was a super lapsarian at the time.
And I understand what it, I understand believing. I understand what it is to believe. And I don't
expect that any rational argument I bring up, anything I can show you, is going to convince
you just by my arguments. I think that too much personality gets involved. You see how I get hyped,
that can cause people to not want to listen or may not want to follow what I'm saying.
It's going to take you being honest with you and continuous research and expanding your world
and understanding, wow, there were so many claims, so many cults, so many gods and goddesses. And
there were so many post death experience, appearances, resurrections with apotheosis. There
were other resurrections. There were other postmortem appearances. There were visions,
eyewitnesses to these claims. There was all of this in the ancient world. All of this. This one is true.
It's what they want you to believe. So really boils down to that. Jesus show up and overcome my doubt.
And like you did to Thomas, then guess what? I'd be starting to realize, oh,
but I wouldn't half ass it. If he appeared to me, everything would change. If I really,
really was convinced, everything would change, especially on that level. Yeah. Anyway, I love
y'all. Please stay tuned this Sunday. I'm doing the myth of Joseph. I've got the myth of Moses
coming out. These are some big videos coming, hours of content. We're going to hang out. We're
going to stream. I hope that you come and join us. Be on the lookout. Share this material out. Like
this content. Comment down below anything in this video. Let me know if you disagree with me and why
or where you agree with me. And I appreciate everybody who supports us on the Patreon because
Patreon's been dwindling lately. I've been doing those documentaries, a little less of interviews
with academics. I plan on doing more of that in the future, but for those who've stuck around,
I really appreciate you. I love you and never forget. We are MythVision.
