We are live welcome back to mid vision podcast. I'm your host Derek Lambert. I have Dr. Robin Faith Walsh with us today. How are you Robin?
I'm okay. We were just talking about all the rec letters I'm writing today, so I'm trying to switch gears.
That was the wrong question to open the stream and like, I hope your day is better today, going for Dr. Walsh, but
I know, it's fine.
Life throws us lemons. Let's make lemonade and try and add some sugar to it.
What are the Gospels, right? This is something you can read several scholars in several ways and they will draw different kinds of conclusions, especially depending on what kind of school of scholarship they're coming from, how they're evaluating this literature.
And your book, let me share the screen for those who aren't aware, the origins of early Christian literature, you're trying to, from what I understand, you're trying to place the Gospels within a Greco-Roman literary culture and what that might look like in that literature.
So, you have the book. You have a website. For those who are interested in checking out the website, there's much here you can check out and I don't, what's this here?
Linktree. Oh, your Linktree.
Linktree, yeah.
Okay, you can do that. We also have a course on MVP courses on the Gospels and then we have one on Paul.
And, you know, you did both courses so you can take an online class at your own pace on the Gospels and on the Apostle Paul from Dr. Walsh.
We have that pinned in the comment section and in the description to give you an idea of what it looks like here.
The Gospel Masterclass, Understanding the Gospels, is literature. This is all put together by Ryan. So, you know, you and Ryan did it all. I'm proud of you, you know, for doing it. Looks good.
This is going to make noise, isn't it? Oh, I muted it. To show people, you know, this is the Gospel specifically and we have the Paul course, of course, as well.
And then the book, you got to get the book. Anyway, enough of the promoting here, Dr. Walsh. I mean, we have some conversation we can have back and forth about the Gospels,
but we are hoping people will sign up for the courses because this is my way. These are my words. I'm the one saying them.
This is my way of showing appreciation to scholars like you and to try and kind of create a movement online where we can take academics and make them appreciate the public platforms and say, hey, I want to talk more to people.
This helps my family feed my family. This helps me be motivated. And there's a lot of compliments that come with putting yourself out here with the knowledge you have because there's so many students that see your work and go.
Whoa. I want more of what Robin is putting out there.
Well, that's really nice of you to say. I mean, a big motivation for doing this is, like you say, to make this kind of knowledge more accessible to a wide audience.
I can speak a little bit for myself. I mean, obviously, there's the democratizing education and the important ethic behind that.
For me, it's also teaching me a lot not only about how to relate to my students to think about not just making things very high-minded, you know, or complex.
It's helpful for me to sort of metabolize this material in more accessible ways. But I mean, let's be honest, college is so expensive.
Not everybody can go. And I'm not saying that I'm like, you know, the be all end all of like education on this issue.
But, you know, the more voices that are out there, I think to give like you're saying different schools are a range of possible interpretations that are out there.
I think the better. And then the other thing is back to what I've learned from this process is sometimes it could be hard to figure out.
I mean, we're talking about ancient, dusty old texts, right?
In placing the Gospels in conversation with other first and second century literature that necessarily means we're talking about like ancient Greece and Rome.
So, you know, Plato, Virgil, those kinds of guys. And, you know, it's very easy to be like, what does that have to do with anything, right?
Like in today in 2024, when we're recording this like with day to day life, but the less I'm kind of in that ivory tower.
And the more I look around because I'm not particular, you know, myself part of like a faith based perspective, I'm realizing, you know, how much good can be done from offering these kinds of courses to to help people understand where our interpretations come from, the nature of our sources, how we've gotten here.
And I think it can do a lot of good. So not not to make it sound too lofty, but those are the things I've learned in the process of trying to put this kind of thing together.
Well, I appreciate you on this journey as an academic, you know, people think of PhDs and they go, they have it all. They figured it out.
I feel like the more you learn, the more you realize, right? The more you're like, hold up, there's more to this. There's so many more levels to this.
And is it safe to say, like just getting on the context of the Gospels, is it safe to say that our evidence of what let me let me back up a little about the Gospels and ask it this way.
What do you think about the way the Gospels have been viewed in scholarship, especially post enlightenment, as I would say more serious rigorous academia came into the picture.
I know that you talked about how it used to be viewed or like commonly viewed or just scholarship in general.
I guess I'm saying up to contemporary times, like a lot of people are reading them, you know, the early church fathers call them memoirs, right?
They're reading them as if these are some type of, in the way they understand it, historical literary text with a little legend, maybe if obviously if they're serious scholars or they're serious about the truth, I would say without a doubt there's legend there.
And that goes for believer and nonbeliever, right? Like you've realized, I'm sure as you've gone into the public arena, how much of a battle there is over, you know, is this real history through and through the apologetics versus the non, especially in America.
But I'm asking in scholarship, the way that the scholarships heading, and there's, there's this, well, I think I can glean mark and I think this is history.
Oh, I think that's legend. What do you think about that? Do you think that's a few, like a feudal, like, we're wasting our time?
Well, I think what I try to do in the book is point out that I think the fundamental problem, if I'm understanding the question correctly, is that there's sort of mythmaking around these texts that goes on and it can take a variety of different keys, right?
Or it can look different ways depending on who you are.
And so I think what tends to happen is that because these texts have such import, especially, and because people, you know, hang a lot of their life, life perspective on them, right?
It's hard to imagine them as just kind of practical day to day pieces of writing.
And so one thing I tried to do in the book is say, like, let's just go like back to basics. And we do this in the course too.
I think this is like really how we structured the course, like back to basics. How do you even write one of these things?
Like, what do you need in front of you? Like just like the technical side of it, like how much money do you need to have to be able to afford to write something like this?
If you have a patron who's supporting you, what did that look like?
What did it look like to go to school to get to the level that we see in the Gospels in terms of like the kind of Greek?
What does it tell us about who the Gospel authors are?
What can we then determine based on what we know about ancient literary practices or how authors, you know, put things together, how they published in the ancient world?
You know, what did that look like? And what can we tell about their social exchange and context based on these things?
Because I think usually the emphasis is on that question. Is it historical? Is it not historical?
Rather than what did it look like to write and like, how are these guys as writers?
Now, I'm not saying scholarship, like you were saying, you know, modern scholarship, how, you know, where is it at?
That's not to say scholars haven't noticed, for example, that the Gospels look a lot like an ancient biography and borrow some of those tropes, you know, or that say, like, you know, of course, the first thing that comes to my mind when I say that is the Gospel of Luke with the preface, you know, that looks like the kind of preface you find in historiography in the ancient world.
Like, all of that, you know, those are factors that people have recognized.
But what's really interesting to me is to say, like, pretend you found the Gospels and treat them like you would treat any other kind of piece of literature in the first century, like, forget all the other 2000 years, you know, since they were written to now.
What would you say about them? And you would say like, well, they look an awful lot, you know, like the kind of writings that we see with historiographers, biographers, etc.
Once you recognize that the question doesn't really become, is it historical or not any more than you'd ask that question of like, I don't know, Plutarch or, you know, an ancient historiographer.
It becomes, you know, what tropes and methods and approaches do you see represented in the Gospels that you also see elsewhere that's common to writers in this period.
Because regardless of your faith based perspective, the, you know, and what you think the Gospels represent in that respect, they are still written by human beings.
Now you can think those human beings are inspired, you know, again, whatever kind of structure you want to put on those texts.
What I'm trying to do is put them in a specific social context that helps us understand what kind of literary choices were made along the way.
And to what extent do they show us because any human being, his writing is going to show their location, they're going to show, here's what I've been reading.
Here's how you know to read my, my work more than the guy next door, right?
Because I'm doing it in a better way or I have better references or I understand the history of the field.
You know, whenever these guys, we talk about this in the course too, are deciding I'm going to write in Koine Greek and I'm going to write the story about this Judean, you know, messianic figure.
I'm going to reflect on the law, you know, everything else that you see.
But I'm also going to kind of do this in a key where I'm engaging about literature of biography and paradoxography and historiography.
Other things people are reading in the first century.
The gospel authors are doing all of that.
And I think it makes for a really interesting sort of new approach.
Again, not new to say people didn't recognize comparison, but to really focus on, you know, comparison with other kinds of literature,
but to really recognize that we need to place these guys not in that mythological context.
And I say guys, because it's most likely a guy running the gospels, but not within that context of mythology or, you know, an aspirational context,
but one that really tries to ground them and understand where they're coming from.
Because understanding them as writers rather than as, you know, people representing Christian communities or debating the questions of historical Jesus, etc.
That's been done quite a bit.
So I'm just going to change the conversation a little bit to put in a different emphasis.
So as far as the gospels go, you brought up some really interesting things we would like to know about these authors.
I'm not getting into the who wrote mark, if Mark wrote mark, none of that.
I'm just simply saying based on the gospels, let's just scratch that about the whole, I'll call it the myth of Christian origin for this literature and all.
Let's just go beyond that into the scope of where academics are.
And they say, hey, okay, these are pieces of literature.
What, based on your observation of the gospels, maybe you start with Mark.
Are they doing? What are they using?
You've mentioned, and this is one of the things I always get tickled by when I hear you talk about the Aeneid, Virgil, that you think Mark's doing something here with.
Oh, yeah.
It seems he's competing.
What is the gospels doing? What are they trying to do?
And what kinds of evidence would you point to other than maybe Virgil's Aeneid?
And you can tease us about that.
Other literature, maybe?
Well, I mean, they're very well aware of what else is out there.
I mean, they're not inventing a genre, even though we talk about the gospel as if it's its own genre in some ways.
But that's really a later sort of attribution to them.
You can tell that the gospel authors are aware just like, okay, I'll take the bait and I'll talk about the Aeneid for a second.
But I do have a piece, yeah, coming out in the, there's something called the next quest of the historical Jesus.
It should be coming out, honestly, I expect to get the final page proofs any day.
So it should be coming out soon.
And all I say in that piece is, so take for Mark the messianic secret, what we tend to call the messianic secret.
So this idea that, you know, especially in the first half of the gospel,
every time Jesus performs sort of a remarkable act of some kind, a healing, an exorcism, etc.
If people witness it, he tends to say like, don't tell anybody who I am.
And the other thing that the text does, if he's not proactively, proactively doing that is it says,
and everybody saw what he did and they were amazed and they were stunned and they didn't know how to make sense of it.
And they, you know, couldn't understand what was going on.
It almost made them insane.
Like it's like really extreme language about like confusion and bewilderment.
The word in Greek there is Thauma.
And there are lots of different kinds of writing in the first and second centuries that are Thauma writings.
So paradoxography I mentioned before is one.
And usually those are huge collections of like sort of, okay, paradoxographers get upset at this,
but I'm going to say it for the sake of illustration, like a Ripley's believe it or not.
Like, can you believe they found a centaur?
Like, you know, an XYZ place and they brought it back to Rome.
And if you go to the, you know, emperors storehouse, you can look at it yourself.
Or did you know that there was a baby born at the head of a newbis and threw it in the tiber?
Like those are all these sort of remarkable stories.
What's interesting about that is usually the way time is kept in those stories is so and so
was governor of this region when XYZ happened, which sounds also, by the way, like Gospel of Luke, you know, when he's telling time.
They're trying to put verisimilitude to the legend, to the myth.
This is what I mean.
Like you have to make it intelligible.
Like people reading this thing will recognize if you do that, like, oh, we're having like, you know,
these are remarkable sort of wonder stories in the context of a biography.
And, you know, telling us about a particular time and place that is in the past, but about a certain central figure.
And in the case of Messianic secret and the Thalma language, what I argue there is that this idea of the hero of a story like that,
of a biography or in the case of, you know, thinking about Homer or Virgil, you know, some kind of epic, some foundational epic.
Usually the hero is not recognized.
And guess what word is used?
The hero isn't recognized.
Thalma.
Right.
So, or if it's not the hero, you know, some kind of central and sometimes subversive figure.
So in the particular article I'm talking about, I argue that the way that Kamala is presented in Virgil is very, very similar.
She marches in.
She's kind of a warrior figure, like she's, you know, like a militaristic figure, even though she's a woman.
And when she'll like march into town, people are like awestruck, dumbfounded, like they're almost go out of their minds.
They don't know how to process this.
It's all the same kind of like, what we call the Messianic secret, then you can explain it not as like some big theological claim.
Oh, you know, not to say it's not making a theological point, but that's not all that's going on.
What's also going on there is a literary device that people are going to recognize as readers, as a writer.
You know, you know that this is successful to, you know, put that kind of Thalma language, especially into a story which the Gospels are also acting a bit like a foundational epic, right?
Like it's got a lot of features.
And I mean, I want to careful here because this is Dennis McDonald's territory.
I know you've talked to him a lot.
But this idea of, you know, the Gospel writers being really familiar with that tradition.
And so you see those kinds of, I almost think of it like structure, you know, there's got to be a certain structure to the Gospels literary structure and you see it elsewhere.
And they're building on that same kind of idea in part because the Gospel authors are trying to communicate clearly that Jesus is an important figure.
So what happened is significant and that you should pay attention to it, especially if you're not already in the in group, right?
So depending how these texts are circulating.
And so of course you're going to have to put Jesus on par with, you know, these other texts that everybody else is learning on at school or they've heard about or they're reading.
I mean, we even know in places like Pompeii, people who were not literate, you know, like people who we wouldn't consider writers in the ancient world,
had enough education to sometimes, you know, sort of clumsily, but right, like a line of Virgil that they know on, you know, the side of a wall or on the bottom of a pot or something like that.
We know people are like enjoying these stories.
Right.
And so the Gospels in many ways echo this and the Gospel authors are clearly aware of these kinds of tropes.
There's so much there that I love learning about this because I used to look at these as like magical, perfect, actually what happened in every single situation fundamentalist kind of mindset and it is what happened.
And you can absolutely trust that what they said is what occurred.
And I think there's a bit of almost like a child's innocence to that, because you're not really acquainted with all the other material and all the other works and you're not heuristically comparing or at least saying,
let me fairly look at this like I'm looking at everything else.
And I think the big hiccup and I've interviewed you in the past about this is that Luke's beginning right the very beginning which some scholars think was added at the prologue.
Some think it was there from the start.
Dennis McDonald famously says in the conversations with me, he's like, man, look, he does a half-ass job introducing it at its historiography and then seven verses 11 verses later angels are flying down.
So it just sounds unbelievable and anyone writing a historiography that is trying to be taken actually serious wouldn't write that way and not actually try to be more careful.
What are your thoughts about stuff like that because there's a there's been a debate.
I'm bringing up kind of a different ideas here.
In David Litwell, how the Gospels became history, and then you have more of a mythology combination of biography combination of various stuff, like Dr. Richard C. Miller, who thinks that they're more cultic texts.
They're not necessarily like trying to write fake history.
They're not trying to write a history in a sense of historiography.
And so where do you fall in the spectrum between they're pulling one over your eyes here in Luke's intro and they're trying to trick you and write a fake history or do you think he's what do you think is going on because some people think Luke's lying.
He's lying on purpose to try to deceive you or yeah, how do you navigate this.
Well, you know, I think I've told you the story before when I was writing the book that I had posted notes like to remind me like these aren't special and I don't mean that in like a pejorative way.
But just to remind me of like where you started your question, which is, you know, we are all sort of introduced to these texts in a vacuum, right, like, you know, we don't worship the other gods anymore.
And so, like, this one is stuck and so you've got 2000 years of interpretation that's been built on top of these texts and they lose their context.
I was actually thinking this is totally an aside.
But I've been listening to a podcast lately called 60 songs that explain the 90s.
I lived through the 90s right and like, I listened to the this guy like evaluate like where did this song come from.
I'm like, Oh, I forgot that.
Oh, do you remember that?
You know, like, Oh, God, that song like I completely forgot.
And I know this isn't the same thing except like what it shows me I've actually recommended it to my students sometimes because the 90s are back like the pants are back I got to like, you know, go into the basement and see if I still have some stuff because I'll look like on point.
I know how to do 90s.
But anyway, like listening to this podcast, like no song is in a vacuum right like I hear like a popular song how did it get popular who was listening to it.
How did that artist get to that point?
What was their background?
What was their training?
What were the other musicians they worked with?
Who did those musicians work with?
How do you realize that like, you know, this particular song comes out of a tradition from a particular region, right?
Like, all the same things are there and it kind of blows my mind because I can't even do the granularity off the top of my head of a song I lived through, right?
Do you see what I mean?
Like we were, I was there.
Like, maybe that's more of a reflection on me.
But the fun thing about that podcast is like it takes something that was in living memory and then gives you that context.
Because I think sometimes we receive music in a way that's like that, right?
Like we listened to the song we just like the song we don't analyze like, you know, how that musician put that together who helped them sample like, you know, what kind of ska band they were in like 10 years before I was listening to the George Michael episode right before this.
So anyway, you get you get the idea and that's the thing we have to do, I think with the gospel authors.
We have to put them in that context to try to understand how we get to that point of thinking of them in isolation or sort of this kind of idealized form of like just outside of time outside of context, because it says more about how they were subsequently used than the content.
So thinking about Luke, right, like, in context.
Okay, well, I'll do this in isolation, like angels popping out of nowhere, yeah, right, like that's a little unexpected, right, however, when I or the resurrection.
But when I think about it in context, there are a lot of ancient texts in the first and second century making those kinds of claims or even more extreme claims, you know, like, there are claims about people, you know, like,
wrestling with like long dead deities from Homer.
I'm thinking about philosophers or Philistratus there, right, like the heroicists.
There are claims about like back to Paris doxography people who are living thousands of years.
There are claims back to Miller's work about like people experiencing apotheosis and becoming gods after they die and their bodies rising up to heaven that's not exclusive to Judaism or Christianity either.
The angels come from somewhere. There's an excellent article out there and I'll have to it's older now, but about how the whole depiction of the archangel Michael comes from Addis, you know, like the visual imagery.
You even have, you know, when I teach iconography images of Mary and Jesus, certain positions there go back to Cupid and Psyche, like you can see how, especially in mediums like writing or art or music, that there's kind of this iterative process.
Where like, you know, back to kind of the last question, like, you know, certain kinds of motifs or approaches are said aesthetically, aesthetically successful.
I'm trying to get that word out, but you know that people know that they work or there's like a code kind of embedded in there and how people interpret things.
I don't think the Gospels are that different from what is already out there in the literary landscape what's already going on in terms of quote unquote, cultic practices elsewhere.
You know, it takes a little bit of adjusting like back to my Post-it notes to realize that.
But once I don't think of the Gospels in isolation and I start to think about some of the fantastic claims and other texts from the same time, I can see the borrowings, I can see the context and I can understand it a little bit better.
So just to, I guess, to get direct on Luke's preface, that prologue there.
If I'm nuanceing this for the viewer and then I want to get to the super chats because we only have 60 amazing minutes with you today and I have to have you back.
We've got wind time permits, of course.
May the gods make that happen.
Is Luke, in your estimation, do you think Luke's or whoever is put this intro here, trying to make you convince that they're writing history or do you think, what do you think is happening with this little?
Yeah, it's just what you do.
Like when you're writing a text like this, it's just what you do.
I know that sounds a little bit like baby flimsy, but like let me give you an example.
You have like Plutarch, you know, doing something like Alexander the Great, like writing a life of Alexander the Great.
He tells you, here's my source material.
Here's how I approached it.
Here's what I referenced.
I talked to eyewitnesses.
Here's why you can trust me.
Medical writers.
This is actually really interesting for people who debate that question like is Luke a doctor?
Like I know that comes up all the time.
I think some of that could come from the fact that you have medical writers who will say, I've heard all kinds of treatments that are out there.
I've read all the literature.
I've talked to people like what they're doing.
You can trust me on what I'm about to tell you because I've done all the research and my version of this is a better one, right?
Writers do this all the time, whether it's biography, historiography, medical, like it's just something that's super common.
Obviously not everyone is doing it and that's why you don't see every gospel writer doing it.
But there is a percentage of the writing community in the first and second centuries who put this kind of preface on something where they are trying to really convince the reader to trust them.
And that makes a lot of sense when you're about to have angels pop out, right?
Like you need to have that kind of assurance.
And the additional thing with Luke where the preface makes sense to me is that he has a patron.
You have to recognize your patron.
There's no way somebody just bankrolled you to write this thing and you're not like, hey, I wrote this thing.
Your money didn't go to waste.
I talked to everybody.
I read everything I could probably because this patron had a library that this person was allowed to use.
Thanks for the resources.
Appreciate the cash.
You can trust me.
This is a good one.
You asked for a good one.
Here comes a good one.
And by the way, it's better than all these other ones that I read.
And I talked to so-and-so and I put this together, right?
Like if you just kind of take the language and make it more accessible, you can see what he's doing there.
So it makes a lot of sense to me.
Wow.
I love that.
Without reading into the motives too much, but it's pretty obvious.
You've got, there's a patron.
There's money.
He's, and there seems to be an agenda in the literature.
You can find the motifs.
The academics have brought out every time the Christians are found guilty.
They just so happen to be found innocent in every scenario.
So there's so many interesting things.
And no wonder a lot of the apologists that I've engaged or had conversations with are resistant to the fact that I've wondered.
And by the way, Dr.
Richard C Miller's working on something where I'm not going to give away too much, but he teased it in the last live stream that he's like, what if the Christians weren't as innocent as we have been kind of told in the propaganda of Christian history?
Like, why were the Romans in periods of time actually putting them to death or they're being prosecuted?
What's going on?
What are the Christians doing to break what laws?
And anyway.
Well, I want to recommend to the work of Canada Moss on this and you've interviewed her before too on her wonderful book on the myth of persecution where she points out there was like one place for like a couple of years where they're like actually executing Christians.
But there is a lot of reason to think that that was a claim that was put forward.
That was exaggerated for certain reasons to kind of create a dynamic of like in group out group, you could call it or this like dynamic of, you know, especially as Christianity starts to rise.
Like, you know, these humble beginnings, you know, where it was like us against them and then they rise up, right?
And so I think it's important to keep that in mind.
I mean, there are scholars who even dispute whether the letter from Pliny to Trajan that talks about persecuting Christians is actually authentic or if it's later.
So there's perhaps some chicanery going on.
We'll say that with.
Yeah, with that with that narrative because like you say you have to always like I'm not saying never trust anything we have to be critical about absolutely everything.
But we definitely need to think about why we not take anything for granted like think about why we take certain kinds of claims as legitimate claims, especially for social context and there could be reasons to question them kind of goes back to my
whole thing about, you know, human beings are kind of a mess and beings are responsible for all the stuff that we're talking about.
Ultimately.
Yeah.
So yeah, maybe that says more about me being a trusting person.
I don't know.
The queen of myth vision, my partner, my wife are so much alike like that.
Like, when I was fundamentalist arguing with her to try and tell her how this is really an errand and and God like, you know, like really trying to argue the validity and she's like,
men wrote it.
And I'm like, moved by the Holy Spirit and she's like, you don't think any of the men's ideas actually got in there and I'm like, you know, like I'm put she was like you so one little statement.
And then my last question in the super chat is this.
I read Ignatius is letter to the Romans.
Oh my gosh, it was the most suicidal letter I've ever heard.
He even says it made me the bread for the beast that kind of blinded into the tummy into the teeth and they won't eat me open their mouth up and put myself in there.
Yeah.
Exactly.
It's just like if they won't kill me, I will make them like this.
So anyway, whoa, a little bit, you know, so then the last question I have is how much influence in your scholarship and your research.
Do you think the Gospels are tainted by Paul?
So when we're reading something about Jesus, is this really Jesus in your estimation because you know the schools of scholarship.
There's all sorts of interpretations and understandings.
How much are we actually looking at Paul when we're looking at Jesus and we don't know that actually this isn't Jesus.
This is Paul and Paul's mission, Paul's theology in the caricature of Jesus in the Gospels.
Yeah, I'm glad you brought that up.
So it gives me the chance to talk about something I was thinking about earlier on when we started the conversation, which is a lot of these things that I'm talking about as tropes or something you would find in historiography or part of kind of the established literary tradition of the age.
A lot of these things reflect a different, let me just use this language, a different standard of what's historical than we have now.
And I think we've talked about this in the past, so I won't belabor it too much, but we expect if we read something in a book that it's been peer reviewed, gone through a check, the footnotes work, etc.
This is where sometimes scandals come in when we realize these things aren't as well checked as we thought that they were.
Or in media, I think people had more suspicion about media now, but there was a reasonable expectation that if something's reported, it's true.
So we have an idea of history writing today that I think is different than antiquity, which is, I think, something that's situational in this respect.
Because we can record things, because we can Google things, because the touch of a finger with a database, we have more resources now than we even did 20 years ago.
I mean, it's sort of amazing what's happened just in my lifetime in terms of resources.
We can do that kind of checking, and we expect that receipts. We expect to be able to have receipts.
In antiquity, the idea of being able to look at the receipts was a very different thing, because people weren't as mobile.
Information didn't travel as easily. It's not to say that it didn't, but it wasn't as immediate.
You couldn't just make quick reference to confirm a date or an event.
So we're dealing with word of mouth. We're dealing with, if we want to call it oral tradition, we can call it that.
But there were also some mechanisms in place for writers to indicate that what they were giving you was more or less the best truthful information that they could,
or at least giving you an impression of what they know to be the truth, even if it's not to the letter, absolutely what happened.
And people, I think, had a broader tolerance for this in antiquity than we do.
Does that make sense? I think they would be okay with, like, ah, if they disputed a date, or if there was sort of a structure,
like something like saying, I talked to eyewitnesses, the eyewitnesses give you, that invocation gives you a better sense that, like,
okay, at least you talk to somebody who's making a claim that they're there.
I think people also understood, sometimes eyewitnesses aren't exactly, you know, like, super, super reliable, but better than nothing, right?
There are other kinds of techniques in writing that you could use that the idea was to give an impression of what somebody was like,
rather than, like, this is absolutely what happened, absolutely what they said, absolute date.
So I think that's why, you know, I don't get as worked out about that stuff, because I think they're doing the best job they can, you know, like,
nuancing these things. And I think they had a different idea.
I really like the work of Bauersock on this fiction is history, which is an older book, but I think it's very accessible and a good resource for what I'm talking about.
As far as Paul goes, and this is related, we actually do talk about this in the course, I think Paul is very much an influence for the gospel writers.
And one example, and I actually, I think we end the course with a paper that I gave for the Society of Biblical Literature Conference on this question,
because, so in the 19th century, there were already German scholars that suspected that the characterization of Jesus was actually based on Paul in the Gospels,
that they had read Paul's letters. Paul represents sort of this ideal, or aspirational version of what a good Christian is supposed to look like, right?
I'll just use that kind of anachronistic language. And so then Jesus ends up embodying the ideal that Paul put forward in his letters.
So that was something someone like Gustav Wolfmar was already doing in the 19th century, that the entire biography of Jesus is based on Paul.
That's a little complex, right? That requires a lot of moves to make that kind of claim.
So what I argued in the talk that I gave as part of this was that you can see, I think, something like what we call the Last Supper,
where Paul says, I received from the Lord, which as a formulation, I think you can make a reasonable case that he means divination experience.
And I recommend the work of Jennifer Isle on this, that he's receiving from the Lord, meaning Jesus, information about what he should do, about Jesus's life,
the Lord's life, about things that he thinks should happen, including telling him about this supper that he held before his death.
So Paul goes into detail about this is what happened at the Last Supper, this is what the Lord did, this is what he said, this is what we should do in our communion.
And then when you get to the Gospel writers 20 years later, they tell you the story of the Last Supper, and it looks like what Paul said.
And so what I point out is that if you took a study Bible and you look at, you know, like the little footnotes in the study Bible,
for the passages where Paul talks about the Last Supper, having received that information from a divination experience from Jesus,
it'll say, this must be an oral tradition that goes all the way back to Jesus and his followers, because somehow it made its way into Paul's letters,
but it also made its way into the Gospel. So there must be like this single point for which there is a trajectory to Paul and then a trajectory to the Gospel writers.
That makes absolutely no sense to me. Paul told you exactly where he got it from. He did not get it from the oral tradition of the followers of Jesus at the time.
He tells you, divination experience, right? I got it directly. I got this information directly from the Lord.
There is no reason to suspect that he's telling you something that he got from another means.
I mean, you could make that argument, I suppose, like he's trying to compete, you know, with like Peter or something.
There's a way you could make the argument, but he tells you what he did.
Why can't it just be more linear? An explanation is that the Gospel writers were reading Paul's letters.
Paul told us, and we are going to authorize a divination experience that Paul, the apostle, had of the risen Christ, good as historical.
So kind of back to what I was saying before, like fiction versus history, right? Sorry, I have students texting me. I have to close the window.
But that's as good as historical, right? You can report that in your Gospel, because it came from Jesus.
It doesn't have to come from an oral tradition from a follower who was there, but it came from Jesus, to Paul, to the Gospel writers.
Like that makes a lot more sense to me. And it's exactly what I'm talking about in terms of like other forms of information are okay.
A divination experience is as good as somebody talking to you, right? It doesn't have to be our stark distinctions in modernity.
I think don't exactly apply in this context.
Thank you so much. We can get lost forever. So I'm going to hit these super chats. People have questions.
Hopefully we can get them knocked out before you have to go. Equal skills. Thank you so much for the super chat.
Robin mentioned last supper, anointing, rooster death, crucifixions in Gospels versus Petronius, ancient novels. How's Jesus crucifixion historical, not literary?
We don't have any other figures leading up to that point who have been crucified and resurrected in this way.
So I actually take the crucifixion as something historical. Also, Paul tells us this.
And so people who are wandering around, including Peter, Paul, not having known Jesus, but knowing people who were there, tells us these are facts about the life of Jesus.
There's a scholar named Jay-Z Smith who wrote about this. The concept was called dying and rising gods. I think the golden bow talks about this too, Frasier.
So in the 19th and 20th century, there was an attempt to try to figure out are there other deities who were crucified and resurrected that Christianity is borrowing from, you know, or thinking about like Mithras or something.
There's no crucifixion there, but the idea of, you know, like a center who dies.
And so that concept of the dying and rising gods was debated for a while, but really any concrete examples and, you know, somebody should maybe test me on this, but I've looked into it in the past.
The more the examples we have of other kind of Greco-Roman deities who experienced this kind of death, any kind of crucifixion or execution like a crucifixion, they're after Christianity.
So then you have to start to think that that's a Greco-Roman borrowing of something that's coming from a Christian context. You just don't, we just don't see it.
So for that reason, I think that that piece of it is historical and also crucifixion. That was a huge thing to get over, honestly, for people in antiquity.
The only people who were crucified, it was the worst capital punishment that you could experience.
Crucifixion, I mean, and that's saying something considering like people were executed in the amphitheater, like back to your lions.
It was really a brutal death and usually reserved for people who just had no rights. So non-citizens, enslaved persons.
In Rome, they used to crucify dogs every year and march them through the streets. I mean, this is a punishment reserved for really, I mean, this is why they say to be hung on a tree is cursed, right?
This is a very terrible form of death in antiquity. And so that's a true innovation within Christianity, honestly.
The fact that somebody could face this kind of execution, this horrific kind of execution and to subvert that into, he's really the Son of God.
That would have been very compelling for people. But that particular element, the actual crucifixion itself as the form of death, I think we can think of as historical.
Now, everything around it like an earthquake when it happens, you know, like that stuff you see in other kinds of writing.
The idea of some kind of cosmic event or some kind of natural disaster taking place around the death or an event in the life of a hallowed figure or an important figure or a philosopher or, you know, a deity of some kind.
That's everywhere. So that doesn't surprise me.
Just to give a little pushback slash context there is that like, is it not possible that in the decades following this Jesus Colt's origins, that they would take a catastrophic event of a death of a hero or demi god figure
similar to other myths that have deaths may not be crucifixion, but at us cutting off as junk and bleeding to death or like crazy other examples and they just kind of modeled one.
I believe there was a guy I think he was crucified to but I'm trying to give some credibility or potential credibility to saying is it possible that a legend completely whole cloth is invented between those decades.
I tend to think that there's legend built up around a guy was crucified and it just works in the motif of death because I'll say this.
I think that I mean if you look at the crucifixion scenes across even the canonical Gospels are not the same.
The time of day is different. The thing he says on cross is different. Who's there is different. The arrest is different. I mean, like if you break it down, there are some similarities for sure, but they're all different.
The thing that if thing that literary motif just you know in the context of the question, like I, I, I'm pretty sure that that's a historical statement that this guy was crucified what exactly happened in the context of that crucifixion is the thing that I'm saying has literary elements.
So, even if I go back to say Matthew, just because we haven't talked about Matthew yet, back to that idea of like cosmic element or like natural phenomena.
Like, there's a star that tells the magi where to go. And then when he dies, you know, there's an earthquake.
Like that that kind of event, that would have been something that would have resonated with somebody to say, oh, so he was important. This was, yeah, he's on par with these other figures.
He's in the hall of fame.
He's in the hall of fame. Here's a book that I recommend. Hold on.
This is your friend on Matthew.
Hmm.
Is this the oh sorry, go ahead.
So this is, can you see I can't see. Can you see this for the study of the Gospels. Yeah, this is an older book, but I signed pieces of it to my students sometimes.
And it's by Fortress Press.
Let me see what year is it. It's nine.
First edition 1980. So when I say it's an older book.
Maybe I'll write an update someday.
But literally what it does is it takes a bunch of documents from the context of literary context that we're talking about and shows you some similarities to what you see in the Gospels.
So like I have tabs right here on birth narrative.
So birth and youth, the birth of Plato, like you get the idea.
Like, so the birth of Augustus, like, and it's just like little short passages that when you read it, you're like, oh, that's where the Gospels got that.
They have a collection of teachings, Esau's fables.
Esau's fables have that kind of pithy, like, to the point, like moralistic turn that you see in some of say the parables or the stories of, you know, the Jesus, the teachings of Jesus.
So like I just opened up to the rich man in the tanner, the money lover, enemies, the cat and the birds, the mule, you know what I mean?
Like you have these like little stories that have kind of an ethical tint to that book again.
It's called, can you see it?
Cartledge and Dungen are the editors.
It doesn't even have everything.
When I teach my Greco-Roman context of early Christianity course, I use this as a basis and I supplement it.
I just give it to my students and I tell them like, open up the New Testament, open up these documents, and I give them themes like show me natural disasters.
Show me miracles.
Show me pithy, you know, parables.
Some of them last semester found out some of the philosophers will look for followers among fishermen.
Pythagoras, I guess, does that in some texts, right?
So like all of those motifs, I'm not saying the gospel authors necessarily are referring to all of them, but back to literary context.
So something like the crucifixion being supplemented by ideas of like natural phenomena makes sense to me.
Thank you so much.
All right, we're going to have to blast through these.
And I have to watch real quick.
And Grandmaster Stash, I know I've died.
Was the myth-making surrounding the gospels intentional to paint Judea in a better light or create a new Roman mythos?
I don't know if you can hold out for like two minutes.
Okay, I guess I'll hand it over.
Okay, for two minutes on this.
Okay.
So I think what's going on with Judea in this period.
So the gospels are supposed to be written after the Jewish war.
Pretty much everybody agrees on this, you know, whether it's exactly at 70, that can be disputed.
Hold on another text in front of me.
That can be disputed.
But I think what's going on is that there's a keen interest in the period following the Jewish war in Judean stuff.
In other words, if you're in Rome and Rome, of course, is the still the intellectual center of the empire at the time.
You're seeing the Flavian amphitheater, what we call the Colosseum being built.
You have coins being minted with the Judea captain.
It's called an image of Judea as a woman with her hands tied behind her back celebrating the victory in Judea.
You have the Arch of Titus.
You have the triumphal march of the Flavians celebrating their victory in Judea.
People were aware of this war.
They were aware of Judea as this hub, not only for, you know, all the political machinations and the warfare that took place there,
but also arguably for trade as well.
You had to kind of go through that region to conduct trade in West Asia.
And so people who would have been interested, I think, in the gospels and in that tier of society was aware of Judea as an interesting location to consider,
particularly after that war, then add on to that, that those who were part of that war, who ended up becoming prisoners of war afterwards,
were likely enslaved and placed around the empire.
So you would have been interested in these new people that you're encountering who are essentially refugees after that war.
So that was taking place all over the empire.
And then we know that before this, especially in the first century, Judean stuff was interesting in terms of how the scriptures, the Judean scriptures,
as a holy book was both ancient, therefore interesting, but also kind of a key to this very ancient tradition and this hallowed religion.
This is why Judaism was quote unquote protected in the Roman Empire and Jews were not forced to convert.
Their tradition was older.
It was also associated in some circles with Egypt, which was also hallowed in the first and second centuries as a cultural hub.
And so it had all these touchstones in the ancient Mediterranean world and imagination that I think made it interesting.
We know, I think you and I might have talked about this, that we have an example.
I think it was in the first century of Judeans being kicked out of Rome, whether this actually happened, but because they were charging a fee to interpret dreams, some of them.
And so they were using holy books to do this, i.e. the Hebrew Bible.
So people were interested in Judaism.
People were interested in the Hebrew Bible.
They're interested in the antiquity of that religion.
And they were interested, especially in Judea as a region after that war.
And so I think all of that kind of conspired to not conspired, but I mean that combination made it interesting for people.
When the Gospels start to tell you about Jewish practices, teachings, the region would have been interesting for people.
No more super chats, please, everybody.
I do not want Robin to hate me.
You know, she's told me before the show she's sitting on the fence and she's not sure where to take the love or the hate.
And so I'm trying to get Dr. Andy.
Thank you. Super sticker.
John D. Your argument and what is your origins of early Christian literature.
Okay, got it.
Against a Dar, as it's Adela Yarbrough Collins about Marcus historical narrative is over my head.
Come down what she is saying and what is what your case is.
Oh, gosh, I don't even remember.
I mean, I'm sure I'm talking, I think she wrote the Hermanias series, which means she wrote the commentary on Mark.
Gosh, what did I say about.
No, but that's, I mean, I'm sure I could do it in a second.
I actually have the book here because I was looking at it earlier.
I just have to try to think about where I talked about Collins, but give me one second.
Is this like this is terrible TV, right?
People hanging out.
People hanging out. Sign up for the course, please, everybody.
We have a Gospels course and that is seven or eight lectures and then.
Yes, okay.
So she argues that the Gospel of Mark is an ancient biography.
And so I seem to talk about this at various points.
Luckily, I had this open.
So I talk about it in certain places, especially it looks like I talked about it in chapter four.
When I talk about anonymous sources, but also when I'm talking just kind of generally about how to understand the genre of the Gospel itself.
And I talk about like when I'm talking about different kinds of sources like Petronius.
So I think what I'm saying there, and I just want to preface that I think everybody is doing great scholarship and we're all contributing to a conversation.
So even if I'm sort of forced into the corner of critique of a particular scholar, it's not to say that their work is not valuable or I don't think they're making good points or, you know, that it should be dismissed.
So yes, so just to say that to say that off the bat, but Collins, I believe, wrote a book called is the Gospel of Mark a biography or something along those lines.
And she also I believe did the Herminias series, which is a commentary series on the Gospel of Mark.
So I think I'm referring to both of those works.
And from what I recall, she very again, just to be I want to be careful that I might not be remembering this all correctly, but I believe that she really kind of double down on the idea that Mark is an ancient biography.
And so therefore that really set stark parameters for what she was able to consider in terms of the literary influences of Mark.
I would expand that.
And for a few reasons.
But one reason is not only because I see other features that are not necessarily confined to biography, and I don't see that we should necessarily really restrict our range of possibilities for comparison, but also because the Gospel authors are not necessarily the same people as biographers.
What I mean by that is not every most biographers in antiquity were either writing an autobiography, or they're writing a biography again about like a hallowed figure but they themselves are at let's call it a higher social tier than what we think the Gospel authors were at.
So to say that the Gospel authors are completely restricted to a particular genre because they are part of a let's call it cultural or literary elite that's only in the purview of this particular kind of writing, the writing of a life is possibly too restrictive.
When I think that the Gospel authors being at, you know, I don't think that they're, you know, writing for, like, purely recording an oral tradition for people who are illiterate, I argue against that.
But the thing that's going on in the first and second century is what David Constan, who I also talk about in the book is describing as an active reader.
In other words, in the first and second centuries under the empire, you have the emergence of a tier of literature, like magical papyri, like the Greek novel, like paradoxography, that is a bit of an innovation for what came before because more people are able to write now than used to be able to write.
And so it's almost like this emerging tier of society that's engaging in literate practices, but are writing and reading different kinds of things and they can innovate on that a little bit more than your average, you know, writer that came before that.
Does that make, does that make sense?
So like really elite writers writing biographies of generals and emperors, you know, like that was a very specific kind of writing.
And you see features like we talked about the preface in the Gossels of that kind of writing, but you also see the features of this other kind of emerging writing in the first and second centuries, like paradoxography, like the Greek novel, that didn't really happen before.
You know, it's like over the course of a few hundred years, but you have this new, this active reader, this new kind of reader who is like kind of new to the game, interested in different stuff.
And you're seeing the Gossels, I think in that register, the Greek is very similar to the Greek novel or paradoxography, the interests are very similar.
So the structure of the biography is there.
But the level of interest, the kind of figure being talked about, you know, crucified Judean, that's not a Roman general, right?
This is a very, very different figure.
And I talked at the end of the book about subversive biography.
So this idea that there also emerges a kind of biography in the first and second century.
That's about a figure that's like not your traditional hero, like like an underdog.
Esop is another one.
I talk about an enslaved person, right, who, you know, has this unique wisdom and goes around teaching and speaks in parables.
I mean, it's very right.
The Alexander Romance, which is about Alexander the Great, except he's described as sort of like ugly and like, he's not attractive.
He kind of gets by in his wits and like his magic tricks rather than like the fact that he's a big strapping, you know, like army guy.
And that's all part of that tier I'm talking about too, like that emerging tier.
So to just say it's a biography to me was too restrictive.
I think I think that's the simple way to describe it.
Well said.
I love that answer.
And good question, John.
Doc Pluroma not in the house.
If Marcian was working with a proto Luke, can we deduce a further redaction layer was added later as a polemic against his interpretations, adding Luke through to how would this affect traditional dating?
You know, the more time goes on.
So like the redaction thing, I'm just getting old.
And I'm just kind of like, I don't know.
I'll come back to it maybe like redaction.
I think is super interesting.
But I also think that oftentimes it's a bit speculative.
However, to this question about dating, especially like vis-a-vis Marcian, I think that increasingly there's a an emerging conversation within scholarship that the Gospels are second century.
And a lot of that construction is based on the idea that there had to be an answer to Marcian.
Some of that too has to do with the fact that we don't see the mentioned right until the second century by anyone.
Right.
So the idea that the Gospels, I mean, for sure are part of a polemic that's emerging in that century.
They're football, you know, the Gospels become a football for these competing claims.
And especially, you know, with Marcian, likely having a proto Luke.
I think it gives us an idea if we can't identify specific redactional layers at the very least, we can talk about these Gospels being used as that football.
And so I think we need to start looking more into the second century is a more secure, maybe not starting points, but like location to begin the conversation.
And I'm thinking here about the work of Dana Luci.
He actually has an article called had a pac-man.
So kind of being according to like that's the titles of the Gospels.
But he relates what's going on with the authorship of the Gospels and anonymity, but also the second century context where the gospel or where the church fathers are talking about the gospel authors to the way that video games like pac-man had an author.
Do you know who it is?
Or do we just talk about pac-man?
Right.
Exactly.
So you can like get into who the specific author is of, say, a video game.
It's known, but most people just talk about the video game.
And so he relates that in the second century to the way that this kind of discussion is going on with the church leaders about the Gospels, even though they're not saying Mark Matthew Luke, right?
It's kind of the catapact model.
So I recommend Dana Luci's work on this.
Thank you so much.
Do not hate me.
Do not hate me.
I'm trying.
And I told everybody, no more super chats.
Thank you for the support.
Kareem Moore, the canonical Gospels are fine with miracles or demonic pigs.
Any push to also include a resurrection scene could have been nice proselytizing tool.
Well, I mean, this is what, so Mark ends with the women being afraid, right?
But then you have post resurrection appearance.
Somebody realized this, you know, like at some point, like Mark ended in a really kind of crappy way.
If you're trying to have a proselytizing tool.
Okay.
So I just denied my own thing about like, I don't care about reaction.
I do because I, you know, think that the, the Mark ending is a great example of this.
Like somebody realized somewhere that like, you know, they run away and they're afraid and they don't say anything.
Well, how did we get here?
You know, and so you have to have like post resurrection appearances for sure.
So I think that you get that, you get that in acts, right?
Like you get the sequel.
So somebody realizes you're on exactly the right track.
Some people started to realize this along the way.
Thank you so much for that.
Is Robin familiar with Henry J. Cadbury's 1920 Cambridge Harvard Press work to show Luke is likely not a physician?
I had a student do an independent study last like a full year ago.
He was pre-med and he was determined Luke was a physician.
And so I think we looked at that that I don't think he was.
So it was one of those things where I was like, you know, letting the student work with me and like I was completely open to him proving me wrong.
But I wanted him to try to show me all the scholarship and then like do kind of a critical reading of, you know, like why would we support or not support that conclusion.
So I think I looked at it even just like a year ago.
And I think that it's a bit of an over-reading of what's going on and Luke.
However, I can kind of understand how some people reached that conclusion in context in part because of things like the preface back to the Hermania series.
I was looking at the Luke Hermania thing probably like two months ago.
I can't remember why now.
You're from me texting you about it.
Oh, were you were you the one? Yeah, that was it.
I made your life hell.
That's why I was looking at it.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's why I was looking at it.
Was that like two months ago?
It was I'd say a month and a half ago.
The whole preference was a huge question.
I was texting me about Luke's preface and I was like sending like while trying to put my kid to bed.
I'm like, you know, one hand wiping like long dissertations on like Luke's preface.
That's why.
So I looked at the Hermania series on that, which was written by Francois Bobon.
And he references a bunch of medical treatises or, you know, at least like I remember one for sure, like in a block quote.
But he has a section on the preface where he's like, yeah, physicians had this kind of introduction to their writings all the time.
Because I usually go like, you know, my defaults Plutarch, I found that really super interesting and, you know, automatically I was like, why didn't that student, you know, like, tell me about the medical treatises that we worked on.
That would have helped his case.
But I think the reason people make that claim and if I remember some of Cadbury's argument correctly, if that was the, I assume that was the thing I was reading, you know, I'm taking the super chat for granted that that was the exact author and title.
But I remember this, you know, reading some of these older pieces.
The argument is that he's more specific about disease processes.
So rather than, you know, just call something, I don't know, like a cough, he calls it, you know, tuberculosis.
It's not that, but you get what I mean, like he's a little more specific.
The only reason I have a problem with that is that we know elsewhere, like in Matthew, there are more specific identifying features of the different kinds of diseases people present with.
That just get translated as epilepsy, you know, like for simplicity's sake, even though in the Greek, it's more specific.
So I don't know that that's exclusive to Luke either.
That would be one counter argument as well.
So and then also you have the later theological argument about Luke as the physician for Paul, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Thank you, Nitty.
Jack Bull says keep reading Ignatius friends.
Thanks for the pod, Jack.
Thanks for the super.
Appreciate that.
Steven Eastman says paradox, paradoxography reminds me of modern urban legends where it's where it always happens to be or to a friend of a friend or is given a fake background to make it seem real.
Yeah, it's like the ancient equivalent of like my boyfriend's in Canada.
Or I think I compared it once to news of the world.
From when I was a kid that boy found in cave.
You know, like there's there's an appetite for a now like on tick tock.
There's an appetite for like, you know, the algorithms figured out I like like old, old Judge Judy clips and like, oh, yeah.
And like, I keep getting like scenes from cops.
I don't know like why I'm stuck.
It's that or like abandoned cats.
I'm like stuck in a bad algorithm right now.
But like, it's actually kind of similar like these little dramas, you know, like little short dramas.
We love those human beings.
So it's like, yeah, an ancient equivalent of like tick tock or news of the world or, you know, friend of a friend for sure.
It's gossip.
It's ancient gossip.
Thank you, Steven.
I appreciate that.
Doc Pluroma not does Matt consciously correct contradict Paul's understanding of Jesus as the first group in 2752 when the bodies of the saints rose before Jesus, rearticulating the Jewish understanding of the general resurrection.
Well, you know, I want to yeah, I want to go back and look at that.
I think that there's a lot of aspects of Paul like I can, you know, I feel bad because this is 20 bucks.
But there are a lot of aspects of Paul that I think get corrected.
One of the ones that stands out to me is actually, you know, different scholars have had different arguments about this, but Paul says Jesus was buried.
And there's a lot of like, you know, was being buried just means like a general like he could be put in a tomb, but like and he meant buried but in a tomb like just kind of a general statement.
I think it doesn't Collins not maybe not Collins.
Dominic Crossen doesn't he say like it's just kind of or maybe I actually think Crossen says he was buried in the ground.
You know, because there's this this argument that like if you were crucified, you can't take the body.
Like that's a whole thing, you know that you remember I don't think Crossen thinks he was actually he might have been buried in the actual ground or was in a common grave was eight my dog.
I think he's even said, you know, I'm pretty sure.
Crossen has said that because it's it's one of these kinds of points of debate, right?
Like, you had to willingly ignore Paul literally saying the guy was buried, which corresponds with like historical expectation, which is what I think Crossen is getting at.
If I'm remembering his argument correctly to have the empty tomb, but as Miller has talked about Richard C. Miller has talked about and I've talked about as well.
The empty tomb was common to paradoxography, common to things like the satiric on and common to this idea of the missing body representing the defecation or the resurrection of a figure or the apotheosis of a figure.
So let me just reread the first fruits and the bodies of saints rose before Jesus.
Okay, so this is also talking about how I think Paul says that he creates like a hierarchy of who's going to go first.
And it becomes like kumbaya later on.
This could also be a reflection to of, you know, Matthew seems to be his his big corrective.
If you want to call it that to the Gospel of Mark is not enough references to Hebrew scripture.
And certainly Paul is innovating as a Pharisee who has his own interpretation of the significance of Christ vis-a-vis the Messiah.
Paul's already innovating a lot.
He'll go back say like in Galatians to Hagar and Sarah to make his case like obviously he knows the text well.
But he he's innovating I think possibly in a too expansive way for someone like Matthew.
So it makes sense to me that that kind of corrective would come into place.
The other thing I'll say briefly is that we have to keep in mind that Matthew had access to Paul no doubt in my mind or access to Paul via Mark.
However, we want to construe that.
But I think we have to be careful about how much of each piece of writing we do comparisons to each gospel.
I've tried to be cautious about this idea like, well, this appears in one particular line of, you know, a letter of Paul.
Therefore, Matthew absolutely had it had to know about it.
And he's absolutely referring to this particular concept here.
It's possible.
Matthew does know, right?
Like Matthew only had a couple of, you know, passages of, you know, Corinthians and you know what I'm saying?
And some scholars have done that work.
I think I won't name anybody right now, just in case I get it wrong.
But there are scholars who have been doing that work.
Like, you know, can I tell which letters of Paul a particular writer has, right?
Right.
And so I think we need to do.
I'm angry lion.
I guess one person who comes to mind for me and I do reference her in the book, because she talks about actual like findings we've had at archaeological sites where you only have a few pages of Romans and like maybe a couple pages.
of Galatians.
And that's it.
Right.
And like, so we have to think about the possibility that some of these authors didn't have absolutely everything at their disposal.
We can do acts of comparison to come up with tolpoi structure.
Think about the literary landscape.
But we have to be careful too that we don't assume everybody had the same access to everything we have access to now.
Thank you for that.
Stephen Eastman says thanks Robin for your time.
Yeah.
And I think you recommended this book to me.
I'm going to have to definitely look at it.
I mean, that doesn't shock me at all.
I think it's back to this like, you know, there's a conversation happening in the field more and more in this direction, much to my chagrin, because I don't like reading the chart.
So I keep seeing these and I'm like, oh, that makes a lot of sense.
I don't want to have to read, you know, I already took, I chose courses in grad school and I didn't enjoy having to learn about like every council.
But I'll take a look at that book.
I think it's really an interesting premise.
I'm looking it up right now.
I was trying to find the dates though.
Let me open up just okay.
Let me get you off of here.
I don't want to keep you too long.
Thank you for that, Stephen.
I'm going to look it up after Q source.
Wasn't it not a hung from a stick and resurrected three days later?
I don't know.
That's not who I was thinking of.
There's some deity that Smith talked about.
Who was not crucified, but put in a crucifixion position on a rock.
And then, but I think that they figured out that that story was later, like pre post-states Christianity, but I don't know if it was this deity off the top of my head.
Like I said, somebody check me on that.
I can already hear the apology.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
And keeping the word of a deity off the top of my head.
Like I said, somebody check me on that.
I can already hear the apologist saying, see, she said, this is so unique and it's like every story.
You me, I mean, you can compare them and see how unique the Anana story is.
There is no comparison, identical, you know, that kind of stuff.
I would love to dig in here, but to be honest with you, I'm afraid.
pull the book and she does mention something about Anana.
She descends into the underworld and then ascends
and I think it is three days.
But that's a kind of motif, Jonah's three days.
That happens to like Persephone too, maybe.
I mean, I'd have to look, but like the idea,
the three days, like I have examples in the book
from Paradox of Gronchal Text or from this chair,
like three days is pretty,
there's a lot of three days going on.
I don't know why everything is three days,
but everything is three days and for these stories too.
So it's not exclusive to Christianity
and I don't think it's exclusive.
Just like in general, I think you see that a lot.
I actually found, I'm doing the miracles,
origins of miracles, like origins of Jesus miracles
using Dr. Cotter's work, her name.
I'd have to pull her name up,
but like it's based on her book,
which is pretty much just a source textbook
for you to find the primary sources
about Heracles or Hercules in the context,
Asclepius and then Isis and showing
how they pretty much do the same miracles Jesus does.
Of course, different wording in some cases,
but like killing the blind, resurrecting the dead
or bringing people back to life the whole night.
And in one of them, about Hercules,
it mentions three days, which I was like,
yo, hold up, what the heck?
Yeah, and the Satiricon, the one that I talk about
is the widow of Ephesus.
They stay in the tomb for three days and three nights.
Like you just, for whatever reason,
like the three days, the three is a significant number.
And I'm sure there are people who are into that kind of
like numerology and antiquity who understand why the three,
but that is a common motif for whatever reason.
And then to that point about the healings,
you know, I think I'm sure somebody's done it,
but kind of on my back burner of things to do
at some point are classicists and archeologists
who have worked on Asclepius temples.
There were often testimonials
that went along with an Asclepius temple,
almost like you could imagine them
on a billboard in antiquity.
Like I went to this Asclepius temple
and they healed my, you know, fill in the blank.
And like there are several about hemorrhaging women first.
So that to me, like, you know, it's like,
you could construe that as like the author of Mark,
you know, in Mark five, recognizing like, you know,
let me get the greatest hits, you know, like, right?
And this is something that would be expected
of a healing God.
I love the one, and I'm sure you know what I'm talking about.
And then we'll move on is that the one where
the person is born without eyeballs and they go in
and it's like, it's saying like,
they didn't have even eyeballs in their sockets.
And I have the source.
It's going to be in a documentary I'm launching soon
to kind of show, but like, this is not like,
I just can't see out of my eyeballs.
There's no balls in the socket
and they come out with eyeballs.
And it's like, I came into this place.
Of course, you know, someone made this crap up
because you want to have people throw money
at your Asclepius temple and the priest are happy to see it.
But like, I went in with no eyeballs
and I walked out with eyeballs
and could see perfectly fine now.
It's pretty, pretty ludicrous if you, you know, ask me so.
James Apperson says,
why was Saul killing Christians pre-learning their views?
I mean, so here's a piece I can recommend
Stan Stowers has a piece called Paul the Apostle
in a book on the history of Western philosophy.
I think it's probably on academia.edu
if you can get ahold of it.
And I like the way that he,
so I'm going to paraphrase him.
This is not what he says,
but I'm going to paraphrase him on this,
which is essentially Paul was middle management.
He was kind of like somebody,
upper management was sending him out
to do the dirty work at the time.
And so his task was to kind of, you know,
ferret out these, let's call them,
heresies.
I don't really like that word,
but let's call it that for the sake of illustration.
But, you know, people who are having these kind of,
you know, like non-Orthodox views at the time.
And so somebody running around saying that
a Judean from Galilee who faced capital punishment
and was crucified is the son of God, the Messiah,
who's supposed to be this militaristic figure, you know,
and at the time we know, again,
Jesus isn't the only figure making this kind of claim,
either in his lifetime or after the fact.
So they, you know, we're just trying to keep order
in that region.
So I doubt Jesus was the only example
of the kind of subversive groups
that Paul was targeting at the time.
And by the way, just throwing us out there,
Saul killing Christians, this is Axe.
He pursues them.
He pursues them, but Axe tries to, you know what I mean?
Yeah, Axe says he kills them.
Paul says he pursues them.
I think, you know, it's a reasonable interpretation
to say that he's executing people.
I like to think he's just annoying people,
but that's because, you know, my TikTok algorithm
also gives me sad puppies and kitties.
So like that's my personality.
I recognize that.
Thank you so much.
Last one, Dr. Andy says the two of you
really look good, are great together, loved to listen.
Thank you much.
Come again.
Come again.
That's very kind of you to say.
And yeah, I think we make a good team.
I just really do make a great team.
And I need a better internet and better camera,
but yeah, we made it.
Yes, we do need to do that.
We do need to fix that.
But you know what?
More to come, Robin.
I'm going to be located in Florida shortly.
You are telling people that.
I was trying not to say it.
So all right, that's out.
You're welcome.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's just, you know, the people who are viewing,
you're the elect, the chosen ones.
And so you're able to know this information
and those on the outside just don't have ears to ear
or eyes to see.
Yeah, it's a good thing to say.
Like you're moving to Florida.
We're going to hang out more,
but I didn't want to work beyond any state secrets, so.
Absolutely.
We'll have projects coming up more work.
I just, there's so much you're doing
that I find unique and interesting
and it pushes against the typical grain
of what everyone else is kind of doing.
That I appreciate.
And I think if there, this is my advice
to any academics who ever watch my channel,
push against the grain, test the limits.
Don't lose your mind in the process, of course,
but like go out there, check it out, see what you can see
because I cannot imagine this is not competitive literature
which needed.
It had to compete.
Therefore, it had to in some way nod
by using the greatest of its time
if it was going to compete with the better.
And that's what I love about your work, Robyn.
I love Dennis McDonald's ideas,
even though I'm not sure about all the conclusions.
You know.
But he's letting it out there
and I think that that's great, you know.
Exactly.
And so any final words from you people,
sign up for the course.
Oh, sign up for the course.
You know, one of my favorite things
that we do in the course.
And, you know, I look a little bit like a hostage.
Let's be honest because we recorded.
Did you work?
Yeah, because I was.
He made me sit in his hotel room until I finished it
and it was like 90 degrees.
Yeah, so it was a little bit, a little hostage.
It's a little hostage, but it's okay.
You're listening to the,
but one of my favorite things we did remembering that,
you know, those few days we were together
is there's one class where we talk about
what is a reasonable expectation
for what we call Christian number.
So we look at the work of this guy, Keith Hopkins,
I think his name is, is it Keith Hopkins?
But.
Is it charming for wise?
He does the, that might be it,
but he does something called Christian number
and its implications.
He wrote a piece called Christian number
and its implications.
And we go through just thinking, you know,
like it's hypothetical,
but we try to identify like how many Christians
can we reasonably imagine existed by 100, by 200, by 250
on the basis of the number of, you know,
extent letters we have of other kinds of, you know,
material evidence.
And this is like something that this guy did quite a bit.
The scholar did quite a bit.
I guess he was kind of like a frustrated statistician,
like he kind of goes through
and gives these hypothetical numbers.
But I think it's really interesting
because again, we're trying to make things as concrete
as we possibly can.
Like one thing I say about this point about like
they're writing literature at their time period
in the language of that time period
in a particular context,
like what I tell my students sometimes is
if you sit down right now to write me a biography
of somebody like anybody yourself, a deity,
like whatever you want,
you're going to write in English.
It's gonna have like an opening.
It's gonna have paragraphs, you know,
like it's gonna use particular kinds of language.
You know, it's gonna have certain features that place it
in its time period that tell me
about your relative education.
I, you know, you get down to depending on how people use
language or construct sentences, like where they live,
you know, and so that's the kind of work I'm,
or the conversation I'm trying to have in the field.
Like how can we get more precise looking at these texts
and thinking about their composition, their development,
acts of publication, kind of back to that redaction thing.
We may not be able to say with great confidence
what the original gospels looked like,
but we can certainly have the kind of conversations
that have come up today about how to put them
even in the second century context
and understand how they were, how they functioned
and how they were used.
And so to get much more fine grain
about those things I think is really interesting.
So that's what we try to do in the course.
Yeah.
We do those.
You also have other courses,
like you'll do lecture courses on didasca lois.
So for those who are interested,
Robin's doing all sorts of stuff.
And so what I recommend, yes, I benefit as a platform
when you sign up for our courses.
Yeah, but like I'm a team player
and I really just want to see the scholars successful
and do more public scholarship.
And so jump on that.
You're doing lectures there and I know Canada Moss, so.
Yes, no, thank you for that.
And thank you for creating this platform for all of us.
But yeah, so we've got the gospel course with you.
You and I also have the Paul course.
So those are both available,
but I have an initiative with Dan McClellan
and Canada Moss called the dasca lois.
And it's the same kind of thing,
just public scholarship to be completely honest
because this is live and like not everyone,
like we are losing money on this.
But what we try to do is we just say like make a donation,
whatever you feel you can give, like minimum dollar.
And once a month, one of us on a rotating schedule
just gives a lecture on a topic
related to the kind of material we've talked about today.
So Canada just did one on Sunday on the gospel of Mark.
You can go to didascalois.com, hit my link tree
or go to my website, it's all there.
You can purchase access after the fact.
I think Dan did a lecture.
It's the second tab on the top of the page
to his actual didascalois dedicated tab.
Dan, I think did a lecture on what is religion.
Yep, before my last one was on science fiction
and early Christianity.
All on a star.
That's baby Jesus getting shot in a spaceship
into his mother.
But I'm gonna do the next one, which is gonna be on Paul.
But I'm gonna, I think focus on Romans.
We're starting a series now
where we just zero in on individual books.
And so I wanna do more of a, you know,
like introduction to Paul,
but I also want to look at Romans
because there are so many passages in Romans
like Romans one that get interpreted
in very particular ways that have a lot of exact,
this is perfect book end.
Like I was saying, you know,
have a lot of effect for human beings today
get interpreted in ways that can be, you know,
I think not as attentive to the original context
of these letters as could be.
And so I'm going to be doing that lecture on Paul
and Romans on some point in February,
probably third week of February.
So keep an eye out for that promotion.
Thank you so much, Robin.
I appreciate your time.
Everybody go support your favorite scholars
and let's do this again sometime soon.
I would love to.
Thank you for having me.
Thank you.
