Welcome to MythVision. In this series, this is one of 12 videos that I did with Paula Fredrickson.
Dr. Fredrickson has never done this with anyone else in history. Today, I ask her,
with what kind of confidence can we know anything about the historical Jesus? And how do we know
looking at Paul's letters or the Gospels? What's going on? I sat at her feet and learned, and I
hope you do as well. Remember, this is one of 12 videos. There's an entire series. No one has ever
done this before. Dr. Paula Fredrickson, thank you for giving me your time here at MythVision podcast.
I'm honored to be in Boston for the first time, looking at the skyscrapers and hanging out with
you. It's a pleasure. Thank you for inviting me. Thank you. I've been reading you for years and
finally have the opportunity to actually sit at your feet and learn from you.
I want to talk about Jesus. For many years, I even wondered if he existed. I went through
certain paths of PhDs in the field who thought maybe the evidence is scant to the point where
there probably even wasn't a guy, and started taking an approach thinking, I think there's
some fossils here. I think there's some bones, but obviously there's a lot of, how do I put this
tissue out there? I'm going to consider the tissue allegorically, the theology or the legend or
mythology or whatever it may be that they've added. Some of this stuff, I don't know if it was added
or if it wasn't. Was there a guy who believed he was somehow something more than just a normal guy,
or did he see himself as this figure who would become a king in this new kingdom?
There's so many questions that I have about Jesus if there was a guy. You've done a lot of
research on Paul. You've go from Paul to Augustine and you point out Paul's Gentile audience. We're
going to get into all of this as videos continue. Sorry, I just want to make this elaborate to the
point of, what do you think we can know about a historical Jesus? Maybe you deconstruct some of
this as we get into maybe what we can know. It's hard to get a line on the historical Jesus
because of the nature of our sources. Paul is our earliest source. He's writing within 20 years of
the crucifixion, but he's not that interested in the historical Jesus. He's interested in the
triumphant Christ who's about to come back. There are flecks in Paul that seem to correspond to
flecks we have in the gospel material, but remember the New Testament collection itself
is a fourth century anthology of first century and late second century documents. We're not
even sure of what gospels we don't have that are part of the selection. Those documents were chosen
for fourth century reasons to go into the canon. I don't even know what we've lost. Could there
have been an Aramaic life of Jesus? I don't know. That certainly wasn't something that the imperial
church was interested in preserving and canonizing. Starting out right there, we have a problem with
the evidence we do have. If you can line up places in the gospels that seem to cohere with places in
Paul, then possibly you can put your feet down a little more firmly and confidently on that tradition.
I think it calls for a much more elaborate explanation if you think Jesus didn't exist
when we have all this material about him, but which isn't to say that the material we have
about him hasn't been embroidered in the light of later circumstances and later convictions.
This is a wonderful response. It's important we don't get ahead of ourselves and be dogmatic,
but as far as your research goes, what can you in your estimation be confident?
This is not a scientific measurement that you can be like, here's empirical data that we know,
but using the methodology that historians will try to use to get back to a source and see if
there's something there or what may have happened or not happened, what are you confident in that
really probably happened with Jesus? I'm sure he was crucified. The firmest fact we have about
Jesus' life is his death. Paul was talking about Jesus being crucified. The gospels also talk about
Jesus being crucified. Here's where Josephus counts as sort of a fifth gospel. Josephus talks
about the Romans having a crucifixion habit all throughout this period of Judean history.
The idea of somebody who's a charismatic prophet who ends up with a popular following being cut
down by Rome is something that Josephus talks about repeatedly. If you put the gospel stories
and Paul against the wallpaper of Josephus, I think that's a pretty good way to triangulate back
into the historical figure. So Jesus was crucified. I'd start with that. So that we could be pretty
confident of. And now these are kind of your own subjective responses. But Jesus being crucified,
do you think the Romans, you think it's probably a historical kernel there that they would have said
he was called the king of the Jews and they tack it on his crucifixion above him on the crucifixion?
Paul identifies Jesus as a Messiah, Christos, right? The Greek word for Messiah. And he's doing
that already within 20 years of Jesus' death. He probably got that tradition from some place.
And the definition of a Messiah is a king of the Jews. So that's some place again where you have a
match or what I was calling these flecks, these little vibrations of light. So you have a match
there with the later claim made in the later gospels that Jesus was crucified as king of the Jews.
And Paul claiming that Jesus is the Davidic Messiah, a king of the Jews. So it's possible.
It's possible leaning toward probable that at least somebody accused him of making the claim.
Now, did Jesus himself claim to be the Messiah?
There are many different ideas of Messiah in the first century. So I don't know if he did
what idea he had in mind. But the fact that the, just the synoptic gospels, the seem-together
gospels, Mackey, Mark, and Luke, which all seem to tell versions of the same story,
John's an outlier for this, the fact that they can't agree between themselves
on whether Jesus claimed to be the Messiah or not suggests that there was no clear
self-proclamation or there wouldn't be so much variety in the gospel traditions themselves.
This is your expertise, the New Testament. And I figure I'd ask, because I do this with
all the academics, we go through examples. Mark, I do think, I think it was William R. Day that
talked about the secret Messiah or the secret Jesus. The Messianic secret. Yeah, the Messianic
secret. Where do you stand on this in terms of that? I think that's kind of a, I'm not
gonna say it's irrefutable, but it's pretty obvious this is what the gospel Mark's doing.
Do you think that this is, after the fact, Christians are saying, well, the reason why
you didn't know and now you died is because technically- He told everybody not to tell.
Right. Right. Do you think that's the case? Or do you think maybe there was kind of like the mystery
cults? This is a Jewish version, in a sense, where there's mystery language and that somehow this
might fit into the milieu of other cults, not saying they borrowed, but that they're walking
like ducks, talking like ducks, because there are plenty of ducks around. What do you think?
The Gospels are written in Greek. They're written probably sometime between 70 and 100. I'm guessing,
but everybody does. I think that Mark is written just post-destruction because his Jesus prophesies
the destruction of the temple. So that's sort of boilerplate historical reasoning. If you get an
exact prophecy of something's going to happen, chances are the text that has the prophecy
is writing after the event. We're dealing with traditions that have been developing for four
decades and they're developing, using a biblical tradition that Jesus himself would not have been
familiar with. They're using the Septuagint, the Jewish Greek translation of Jewish scriptures.
We don't know where in the Roman Empire these documents are being written. We don't know who
wrote them. They were originally circulated anonymously. The names that we know them by
are a second century tradition, attested in a fourth century document. So it's turtles all
the way down, in that sense. But I think what we have in Mark is a rationalization for why so few
people seem to know that Jesus is the Messiah and Mark's answer is, well, he didn't want anybody to
know. And I think it's less complicated to think that Jesus was proclaimed as the Messiah,
probably in Jerusalem, probably at his last pass over there. I think he went up more than once,
which is not what Mark depicts, but it is what John depicts. And on his last pass over there,
was the crowds whipped up by his message of the coming kingdom of God, who said, well, if you're
the authoritative prophet announcing the coming kingdom of God, maybe you're the Messiah. And
that's that point that Pilate says, that's it. In other words, if Jesus hadn't been popular
with the crowds in Jerusalem, there would have been no reason for Pilate to bother acting.
Right. I'm with you. It fascinates me, the Gospel, Mark, even though it's not the greatest
writing. And then immediately. Oh, I like it. It's my favorite. I love Mark, too. And I love that
there wasn't that ending. It really leaves you in suspense. And I mentioned this to
Troll's Inberg Peterson. We had a conversation. My dear friend. He's great. He thinks Paul's
stoic and middle Platonism is stoicism. It seems to be the two fields, right? And I think you
mentioned that you think maybe middle Platonism, I could be mistaken here, but a mix. Yeah, there
could be both. Why not both? Yeah, I don't know who's like, is there like someone said once that
if Jesus was here today, healing people, and he healed one with mud and one without mud,
we'd have mudites and anti mud. It's like, why are we making, you know, one and the other
could be both. They're coming out of the same kind of area in the same thought process. But
in Mark, I made this connection and I wrote an article myself just trying to piece some things
together. And I know it's speculative, but I want your thoughts. I thought that maybe Mark
was written by someone who's anti the 12. They're not, they're not for the 12. They seem to be
well, the 12 come off as pretty sketchy in the Gospel of Mark, right? They're like the Keystone
cops. They can't do anything right. That's what makes me think, okay, really, that's not even the,
the, I wouldn't even say that's so much of a guess, even though I think I have the weight on
my side to say that he's not a fan of the 12. But at the end, when this is where the speculation
goes, tell me if my thinking is awry, is that it ends with, they told nobody, it's almost like the
12 didn't get it. But there's this guy who does, and his name was Paul. Like, because he's so Pauline
in his thinking in many ways, I wonder if he's saying they heard it, they saw them, they were
there, they, but they didn't get it. Jesus reveals this thing to Paul. I know that's speculative,
but what do you think about it? Well, we're doing ancient history. It's all speculative. It's just
how you appeal to what evidence you seem to have, and it's your speculations that determine
what you consider evidence. So we're trapped in a hermeneutical circle too. So all that being said,
I, I'm not convinced that, that Mark read Paul, I'm convinced that we as readers of both
are capable of making the connection and a current scholarly mood has made that connection. So it's
unarguable that the connection can be made, but that isn't to say that Mark himself actually read
Paul. I think that the reason, if we look at Mark as a piece of literature, which is what it is,
he explains the problems with the 12 in terms of the sinful and faithless generation,
which is the generation of Jesus. And then the generation that's going to get the revelation
of the coming Son of Man, what is that generation? That's a generation that's seen the fall of the
temple. So he's dealing with the two generation model. I don't think he has fallen his horizon
lines. And the apostles are the disciples or part of that sinful and faithless generation. And he,
and Mark is dealing with an imminent revelation of the glorious returning Son of Man. And so
he's not, he's not bothered making that connection. Well, how did anybody else find out? Well,
there were some standing here who will not taste death until you see the Son of Man come again
in glory, right? Mark 13. So again, the apocalyptic aria that Jesus sings. I like that model that
you describe because it makes me think, and Mark makes him a new Moses, even though Matthew really
spells it out, like in a better way, where even the lay reader can catch it. Mark's still doing it
too with the amount of transfiguration. Here's this new Moses in a way, but better. And it makes me
think that the wilderness generation is going to be left behind, but the ones to enter the promise
land are this generation you're describing. That's right. It's a two generation model. It really is
in Mark because Mark is expecting Jesus to come back and Mark's own lifetime, or at least that's
what his story seems to say. Right. And of course, Matthew and Luke know that Mark was wrong because
they're writing at least a generation after Mark, which is why they change what Jesus supposedly
said and what Jesus supposedly did because they have to, they have to update, they have to update
Mark, and they do. I love this, by the way. You've given me some food for thought for sure.
It's back on Paul for one moment before we end up leaving. What do you think we can know about
Jesus through Paul's letters? I know he's not concerned about the history or the earthly
ministry so much of Jesus. We don't know. We don't really know. I'm saying it seems that's
not his concern in these occasional letters that we call these epistles.
But do you think there's anything we can glean in Paul's letters that tells us something about
Jesus historically speaking? I think that Paul's letters can give us some information about the
historical Jesus when he explicitly says that he has a tradition from the Lord, like no divorce.
That's a match with something we have in Mark. When Paul talks about the imminent
arrival of the kingdom of God, as he does in, well, I think all seven, not the letter to
fight Lehman, which is just a memo about a runaway slave, but the six other letters,
he's talking about the imminent arrival of the kingdom of God that seems to fit with
what Mark is saying also. If you think this is independent attestation, which I'm still inclined
to do, where would they both get that idea from? Well, possibly Jesus of Nazareth. If you go with
John the baptizer also preaching an imminent coming of the kingdom of God, if you go with the
sign's prophets that Josephus talks about, talking about the imminent arrival of the kingdom of God,
none of these people are on Rome's side or on the government side, right? Antipas beheads John,
because it's very, we know from American history, millenarian movements are very socially
destabilizing. If you think the world's going to end three days from now, you're going to act in
ways that you wouldn't act normally. So I think with the apocalyptic eschatology that Paul has
and that there's a residuum of it in Matthew and in Luke also. So the fact that the tradition
is tamped down means that the further back you go, the louder it gets. So I think that would probably,
if we fit Jesus in between John the baptizer and Paul, then why would Jesus not be in that
trajectory? You're right there with Schweitzer, and I get it. I'm on the same boat. I have friends
who want to try and take different approaches. Dom, for example, he doesn't say that Jesus wasn't,
but he doesn't say he's confident he was, whereas I think that there's good reason to think that he
was. And you mentioned this, some of you standing here will not taste death. This pericopee, I'd
love to put it in the mouth of Jesus. I really would love to say, I think the guy said this.
Could someone have put it? Sure, we can do that all day long. But that's such a blunder
that John, whoever the author chapter 21 is, I think that that's the reason that
that chapter is added. He's like, look, there's this tradition that he wouldn't die, but Jesus
didn't say he wouldn't die. He said, what if it be my will? I think this could be a good reason,
at least to those authors, that they thought it went right back to the guy.
That's true. But also, you have all sorts of wiggle room created if there's,
John is creating wiggle room there. I didn't say that I really thought that he wouldn't die.
But you get that also with people who are scholars now who are trying to deal with Paul's
acknowledging Paul's own imminent eschatology and then saying, but Paul wasn't really wrong
because he just said that Jesus was coming back, but he didn't actually say when. Well, in fact,
Paul does. He's expecting Jesus in his own lifetime. We who are left to or alive
will then be transformed and go up with the dead who are raised in Christ. So he does say
explicitly that he's expecting Jesus in his own generation. And he's saying, I don't know if it'll
be in the next 15 minutes or the next two years, but he is saying that he expects it within his
generation. So getting back to Mark, if Mark is trying to invent a two generation model,
what that there are some standing here who will not taste death, what he's doing is building
a kind of pipeline between that generation of Jesus and the final generation, which is Mark's
own generation. He's building a kind of pipeline there. Is it possible that Mark made it up? Sure.
Wow. And it's in Greek anyway. Did Jesus say something like
Talitha kumi, that would, you know, an Aramaic little girl get up?
Possible. I mean, why remember an Aramaic? Something in Aramaic,
maybe a little bit more secure because that would have been the language that Jesus was
actually speaking. Once we're dealing with a Greek tradition formed by Greek biblical
narratives from the Septuagint, we're dealing with something that Jesus wouldn't have known about,
I think. Thank you. Thank you to those who contributed and to go fund me on making this
trip possible for these 12 recordings with Paula Fredrickson. I want to give a special
shout out to you. Your names are chiseled in history. I also want to thank everybody who has
become a patron of myth vision, making stuff like this possible, taking academic work that is hiding
behind all of these scholarships, all of these colleges and making it public, public knowledge
for everybody to learn.
Thank you.
