Ladies and gentlemen, where did the lost tribes of Israel go?
Drs. V. Bindor Benit wrote an entire book on this subject.
If you haven't read it, don't remain ignorant, go and check it out in the description.
It is an amazing masterpiece on this topic.
After the Assyrians conquered Samaria and the lost 10 northern tribes scattered, where
did they go?
Did they still exist?
Or are they lost to history?
Are they a complete myth?
And when Jeremiah and Isaiah prophesied that they would come back after the Babylonian
captivity and they didn't, what happened?
This myth of the lost tribes of Israel has been with us for millennia.
What happened with Paul in the 1st century, 2nd temple Judaism, Judaism after the temple's
destruction in Rome, Christianity throughout the millennia, and of course down in the 1500s,
British Israeliteism, Hebrew roots movements, if you will, the black Hebrew Israelites,
all of these different groups are using the same mythos.
Even the Israel only preterist, want to harp back and assume, literal Israelites is only
the focus.
Well, what's really going on?
Thanks to Jason DeCosta for quoting this on Wikipedia.
I found the scholar and I brought him on the show.
Let me know what you guys think in the description.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
We're going to talk about the lost tribes of Israel.
I cannot tell you how important this podcast is for many reasons.
Stay tuned.
Go down in the description.
Get Drs. V. Bindor Benit's book.
It is unbelievable.
I just finished it the other day and he is the professor of history at New York University.
He's got a rap sheet of credentials and expertise in the field with tons of books.
You really should go down there.
They're all on MythVision recommended books down below in the Amazon link.
Click it.
Check it out.
Let's not waste any more time, Drs. V. Tell me what we need to know about this subject.
Okay, we begin with the end, which is why I started writing this book.
Why is the story of the lost tribes so powerful?
Why do so many people, so many places in the world either claim to be descendants of the
lost tribes or make claims about other people?
So we are not going to open up the onion.
The beginning, the most, in the most important part of it is the fact that we are talking
about divine promise.
It is about divine chosenness, yes, being chosen, okay?
And who are the chosen?
Yes, the lost tribes are chosen twice.
Once is Israelites, yes, given the blessing of God, second, the two central tribes of
the so-called 10 tribes are Ephraim and Menache, Joseph's sons, yes, Joseph himself is chosen
by Jacob, his favorite son.
And when Jacob goes to Egypt, he puts his hands on the children, yes, on Ephraim and
on Menache, yes, in a very, very powerful scene and gives them a blessing.
So first of all, it's about chosenness and about divine blessing.
That's number one.
Number two, it is about being lost.
When you look for something that once existed and now is lost, you look harder, yes, than
something else.
That is why when people look for El Dorado, yes, or the land of gold, they're looking
for a myth.
But when you know and we need to respect the beliefs of the people who believe in the biblical
story.
When you know that we are talking about one chosen group that once existed, yes, they
are, you know, you're going to look harder.
Third and most importantly, okay, and that's the third part of the package.
It is a story about the end of days.
The prophecy basically says that all the Israelites at the end of the days will return.
As we know, after the Babylonian captivity, only the tribe of Judah came back.
That means, you know, that there are 10 tribes out there somewhere on this earth as we speak
right now, you know, about to be returned, not yet returned, that must return, you know,
in order to trigger a messianic process or an apocalyptic process, choose your pick that
we are calling the end of days.
Now, if you're a Jew or a Christian, doesn't matter, here's what's going to happen, okay?
The end of days arrives, you know, and then the Messiah comes or Christ comes, you know,
there will be an Armageddon or not an Armageddon, all sorts of fantasies and so on and so forth.
But part of that is the return of this amazing group, enigmatic group called the lost tribes.
Either they're going to be revealed from among the known ethnicities in the world or somewhere
from behind the mountain of darkness or behind, you know, any some sort of an enigmatic river,
they're going to show themselves up, yes, and be part of a process of redeeming the world.
That's the most important thing.
That's the thing that makes people look for them everywhere and forever, particularly
in the past 500 years, when, you know, humans during the Age of Discovery and the Age of
Sale discovered the possibility of mapping the entire world and mapping all of these
ethnicities.
So, the logic runs very, very simple.
If the end of days is about the end of time, we cannot conquer time.
But if the end of days is also partly about, you know, geography, we can conquer geography.
We can basically discover, you know, where are they?
That's why if you look at the history that I count in my book, every time a new world
is discovered from the Canary Islands, which is the first time that, you know, a new world
is covered all the way to the Americas, to the Alaskans, to Siberia, to the North Pole,
yes, everywhere that they go, someone says, OK, the lost tribes must be there.
Let's look for them, OK?
And when this is exhausted geographically, then the shift moves from geography to ethnography
because people say, well, maybe, you know, the reason why we're not finding them, because
in one of those groups, you know, Native Americans, African tribes and so on, maybe one of these
groups is actually, you know, descendants of the lost tribes that are in hiding and they
need to be revealed, yes?
This is, for example, the power of Mormonism.
The idea that, you know, the Native Americans must be one day revealed as the descendants
of the lost tribes.
So this you bring up multiple sources in your book, not only Josephus, but you also bring
up Second Ezra's, which I think Second Ezra's might be the source for Josephus's quote.
But to me, what I find fascinating is most Jews and even Christians to some degree expect
the ethnicity of these Israelites to remain ethnically Israelites and to refrain from
becoming literally the nations.
Yes.
This is pretty much until the 18th century.
That's the belief.
And I say until the 18th century, because in the 18th century, I found a letter to the
editor that someone in London writes and their editor writes, it says, where are the lost
tribes?
And it says, well, I think they have been hithonized.
In other words, they went through some cultural transformation.
But there are people who believe, yes, that the lost tribes basically are somewhere in
tact, okay, separate part of this world, yet separated.
Now, there are two issues why people cling to that kind of belief.
The number one is, and I think you find it in Josephus as well, and in Ezra's and in
others, is the hope.
You suffered a great calamity at the hand of the Romans.
The Romans came, destroyed your sovereignty, destroyed your temple, killed a lot of people,
and so on.
So what do you do?
You basically says, look, it's not lost.
There are some and a lot of other Israelites out there, okay?
Somewhere out there, there are a lot of Israelites.
And if you look in the Middle Ages as well, and if you look at the literature, even in
the Talmud and the Mishnah, there's always this comfort that there are somewhere out
there, you know, many, many more other Israelites.
So that's number one.
And there is a theological, what I call a theological comfort, okay?
The idea here is that the lost Israelites, the lost tribes, develop theologically according
to the divine plan, you know, as God designed it for humanity.
Now, here's the tricky part.
If you rejuve, you basically say, okay, when we find the lost tribes, we will discover
that they have evolved theologically the way we did.
In other words, they converted the sacrifices of the temple into prayers, they created synagogues,
and they basically behave exactly like us, because this is what God wanted them to do.
However, if you're a Christian, you say, when we will find the lost tribes, we will discover
that they have evolved into being Christianity, moving into a second covenant, because that
was part of the divine plan.
And the proof is that even though they are intact somewhere else on this earth, they
have evolved the way we did.
If you're a Mormon, yes, you would believe, and there are many beautiful, you know, novels
about it from about 100 years ago, you would find out that the lost tribes are somewhere
in the North Pole, yes, and they have evolved into a religion that is basically akin to,
you know, what Mormonism was at the beginning, you know, basically a Christian American
denomination that is based on the idea that the lost tribes have arrived in America with
the tablets and so on.
So everyone basically, and I can go into even inter-Jewish denominations as well that are
part of this debate, you know, basically everybody says, okay, the lost tribes are basically
are a better version of who I am right now.
Because they have evolved into this, there is an idealized form of that.
For instance, the Jews in the Middle Ages believed that the lost tribes are very military
people, very strong.
Why?
Because the existing Jews in this revealed world were weak, no army, no nothing, belittled
minorities in Europe and in Asia.
Okay, if you're a minority, we're talking about multitudes of Israelites.
If you're militarily weak, we're talking about people who are militarily very, very strong,
yes, precisely the opposite of who you are.
And by the way, I mean, in many, many of those myths in the, even in the 19th century, the
lost tribes are depicted by Jews as people who are giants.
Why?
Very simple.
If you look, if you look like weak and feeble like Woody Allen, you know, you want to look
like actually like a gladiator, you know, you imagine, you know, the other half is someone
who is incredibly physically strong.
Right.
That's a story.
So real quick, taking us back because Isaiah and Jeremiah, they predict that the old tribes,
including the lost ones that were taken in a serious captivity, they're predicting that
not only are the Jews going to come back from Babylon, but so will these tribes from the
north that captured and yet those fell.
It fells and only three tribes come back.
They didn't come back and that left a hole in the prophecy, a hole that keeps growing
and growing and growing and people cling to.
Okay.
If you look at the mission at the second temple period, right after the describes of the temple,
you will discover, and I discuss this in the book, a fierce debate, are they coming or
are they not coming?
Where are they right now?
It means that people were obsessed with this idea because, you know, something only is
partially fulfilled.
And if it's partially fulfilled, it is really, really annoying.
You want to have a solution.
Doesn't Akiba say Rabbi Akiba, he says that they no longer are around or something?
Yeah.
He says they are no longer coming back.
Okay.
Wow.
Yeah.
Rabbi Akiba is an incredibly important person.
He's in fact a messianic figure, you know, of that period.
He wants to hasten the coming of the Messiah.
Okay.
And he basically said, forget about it.
They are not, they didn't come back for six centuries, they are not coming back right
now.
But for the rest, the rest of the rabbis who debate him, the idea here is that they are
coming back someday.
And if they are coming back someday, it means that right now as we speak, they are somewhere
on earth.
We just don't know where, where they are.
Okay.
And then you see also how the geographical categories are basically played with.
Right.
Originally, the Bible says, well, you know, they were put in, you know, somewhere across
the river.
Now, the Bible is very, very matter of factish about it.
Where across the river, across the arthritis, which is a provincial category.
Yes.
As in like, for example, Transjordan or, you know, beyond the Mississippi, beyond any
river.
However, in the Second Temple period, in the ancient world, a river has a transformative
qualities.
When you cross a river, you become somebody else.
You know, think about, you know, the great Greek philosopher who says you can't cross
a river twice, you know, crossing a river is something that transforms you.
Okay.
That puts you in a different, in a different state of mind, even a different state of being.
So when Josephus now talks about the lost tribes being beyond the river, he doesn't
give you like a simple geographical fact that what the Bible does.
Yes.
He gives you something much bigger than that.
Okay.
Much, much bigger than that.
And beyond the river is no longer the plain Euphrates that we all know.
It is a much more mythical river that, you know, once you cross it, you're being transformed.
Well, that's, it's depicted really well the way you describe it.
And there's so much I'd love to cover here.
You discuss this river and you say that it will not stop flowing until the Sabbath, right?
Which is this rest day.
But even that is mythical because it's not like, oh, on Saturday, we're going to go here
and the river's going to stop flowing.
Like they can't come back across to exactly, but he's just talking about that.
You know, this is the, that river or the river Sabaticus, as they call it, you know, in Pliny
and in others, it's an interesting thing.
In my opinion, that story about a river that flows for, for six days and then rest on the
Sabbath, it's a completely independent myth has nothing to do with the lost tribes.
Okay.
Now, why are they married together?
Because you need to explain why they are not coming back.
And then someone says, here, I have a perfect solution to the question, why aren't they
coming back?
They're not coming back because they're beyond that river that throws stones for the whole
week.
Yes.
And it's too stormy for the whole week.
So you cannot cross it.
Yes.
And it rests on the Sabbath, but you know, this lost tribes are such pious Israelites,
you know, that they would never cross a river on the Sabbath.
Okay.
And here you have a perfect solution as to why they're not coming back.
And as long as you keep them away, not coming back, you can keep the myth alive.
If I may, Dr. Vinny, let's go back to the myth itself, right?
So how this thing started, they don't come back.
There's a hole in the promise.
These are prophets that they can't let go.
You can't look at Jeremiah and Isaiah and go, oh, you failed.
So they have to fix the problem, like Daniel's trying to fix Jeremiah's 70 weeks problem.
And so what we have is this promise are going to come back.
Do we know who they were and where they went and when did they disappear from actual history?
In fact, we do.
Let's see if we can share a screen, please.
So first of all, here's the thing about the concept of 10 tribes.
We know that there are 10, yes, because we, but we don't know which 10.
But let's now talk about the 10 tribes as one entity known as the 10 tribes.
It is mentioned in the Bible only twice and not in the context of the exile.
Yes.
In fact, in one king, you know, in one king, 1130, 32, we read that, you know, Solomon
became a sinner, King Solomon became a sinner and God decided to tear the land apart and,
you know, and create two kingdoms, leaving, leaving Solomon with two tribes.
We know that one of them in Judah is Judah.
We don't know who are the other one that debates and taking the 10, taking 10 tribes,
you know, to create a northern kingdom and give them to someone by the name of Jeroboam.
Okay.
So in King, 11, 1130, 32, we read that, you know, Jeroboam basically is going outside
of Jerusalem and he's wearing a new dress and then the prophet shows up, tears his dress
into 12 pieces, gives him 10 pieces and says, so said the Lord, I'm gonna give you a new,
your own kingdom.
Yes.
I will give you the 10 tribes to thee.
That's the first time that we hear the 10, the term 10 tribes.
Okay.
We never hear it again.
The second time that we hear it, you know, is basically when the prophecy is repeated.
Yes.
And it says here, I'm gonna give you 10 tribes and only two should be remaining in the past
of the Vedic house.
Now that Jeroboam, who in the Bible is known as the founder of the northern kingdom or
the kingdom of the 10 tribes is a sinner himself.
Okay.
So the same prophet, ahaya, shows up and says, so said the Lord, I will bring evil upon the
house of Jeroboam and will cut, but basically he says, I'm gonna destroy this kingdom because
you are sinners.
Now that doesn't happen for 200 years.
And when it happens, it doesn't have, we don't know if it happens because of God's prophecy
or not.
Fact of the matter is the kingdom of Ephraim or the Ephraim, its state, yes, which we know
in hindsight as the kingdom of the 10 tribes is being destroyed and how it is being destroyed.
It is being destroyed because there is a rising power in Mesopotamia, centered in the
city of Nineveh, it's called the Assyrian or the Neo-Assyrian Empire.
That empire expands in the ancient Near East and already in the 9th century, in the 10th
century, it makes several expeditions into the Levant.
In other words, into the territory, yes, known today as Lebanon, Syria, Palestine, Israel.
They make several excursions there and in fact King Ahab is able to preside over a coalition
of smaller kingdoms, yes, that actually pushes them back and keeps them at bay for a while,
for another 100 years.
That in the year 721, after several successful expeditions that tear the land piece by piece
and exile a lot of other peoples as well, the capital of Samaria, which is the capital
of the northern kingdom of Israel, which we know is the kingdom of the 10 tribes is being
sacked by Sargon II.
Now first of all, what's the story with the exiles?
The Assyrians were fond of deportations.
When they went to a territory and they did it in Damascus and they did it in other kingdoms
as well and they sacked it, they removed the elites.
When they removed the elites, they destroyed the backbone of the society.
They left the peasants there and the merchants there so the economy can be revived quickly
and the people can pay taxes.
But the elite that could mount a national rebellion or something like this against them
was removed and settled elsewhere.
They do it and even the Bible admits that that's what they do.
They bring people from different places.
Archaeologists basically identified deportations as one of the most important tools of creating
the Assyrian empire.
It provides stability, yes, into the provinces that they were created.
It was a form of punishment and deterrence against rebellion and in fact the deportees
served as agents of the empire in the places where they were now exiled.
Now did the Assyrians exiled in the entire Middle East somewhere between 1.5 million
to 4.5 million peoples?
But did they exiled entire nations?
Absolutely not.
Did they exiled everybody?
Absolutely not.
In fact, archaeologists discovered a steely by Sargon II in which he said, I went to Samaria,
yes, I destroyed it and I exiled 27,000 and something.
Right.
Okay.
This is history, by the way, folks.
In fact, in one place he says 27,300 and something and in another place he says, in another
steely he says 27,200 and I think that that mistake suggested actually it drinks true,
you know?
Yeah.
Maybe they were my mistake in one digit.
Now.
By the way, I have it ready when you're ready.
Please, let's go back, let's go to the Assyrian empire, you know, to the map of the empire
itself.
Okay.
Is this it?
That's the first globalization.
Okay.
Now, did he exiled the entire kingdom of the lost tribes?
Absolutely not.
That's against imperial logic.
Okay.
Now, who has an interest, who has an interest to say that the Assyrians, that the mighty
Assyrians did exile everybody?
I will tell you who.
The authors of the same narrative, of the same story that put their own spin on it,
who sit in Jerusalem, Sargon has two goals, Sargon II, the emperor of Assyria.
He has two goals.
First of all, he wants to punish people and he wants to show that he's really, really
important and mighty.
Okay.
He knows he can't exile an entire nation.
He exiles about maybe seven or eight percent of it.
Scholars and archaeologists estimate that there were about 300,000 people in the kingdom
of Israel.
Yes.
And about 100,000 in the kingdom of Judah.
If you calculate how much water and calories, you know, the support, these are the numbers.
So maybe he exiled 10 percent, the elite.
Now, if you read, by the way, about the Babylonian captivity, you see that Nebuchadnezzar, he
only the blacksmith and the aristocrats.
Why the blacksmiths?
Because they make the weapons.
Yes.
Because they are the elite.
These are the people whom he exiles, you know, when he sacks Jerusalem in 586.
Now the people in Jerusalem, the scribes who write the Bible, they don't, they don't care
about, you know, the mechanisms of empire.
They care about the vindication of God and they wanted to teach people a lesson.
And what they say, you see, you remember that there were sinners.
Do you remember that they built the golden calf?
You remember they sinned against God?
So this was their punishment.
Now, if you're in a Syrian empire, you can do a partial work.
But if you're God and you promise a punishment, there's no half punishment.
Everybody must go.
And if God is the agent of exile, yes, then the entire people are kind of magically removed,
you know, from the kingdom of Israel to somewhere in Asia, where there are, as the Bible says,
unto this day, okay?
And the scribes of the Bible, in order to corroborate that, they plant a key, a key verse in the
book of Deuteronomy where it says, I'm going to send them away to another land.
Remember that, Derek.
We're going to come back to it in a minute.
We're going to send them to another land where they're going to be unto this day, okay?
We know today that basically this is around the same time, written about the same time,
and it's about them.
And even if it's not about them, later readers of the Bible are going to read it and say,
you see, that's a prophecy about them.
In other words, if you say they are in another land unto this day, yes, that means that right
now, as you and I speak, they are somewhere out there, you know, and if we find them,
we're going to start the process of the end of days, okay?
Awesome.
Now, do you need me to shift to a next slide or something?
I don't know if you...
Yeah, shift to some slides.
You know, let's say to the drama in the 8th century, you can see the creation of the
Assyrian Empire.
By the way, the Assyrians, they make it to Jerusalem, but you know, they leave it alone.
Jerusalem is not that important, yes?
And we can now ask ourselves, you know, where did the 27...
What happened to the people there?
So first of all, most of the inhabitants of the kingdom of the lost tribes remain in
place.
How do we know that?
We know that simply because the Empire's interest is to revive the economy after the
conquest really, really quickly so they can pay taxes.
That's number one.
Number two, archaeologists have found that towards the end of the 8th century, in other
words, about two decades after the conquest of Samaria by the Assyrians, the population
of Jerusalem doubles in its size.
Okay?
First...
And we need to ask ourselves, you know, how come they double in its size?
Who are these people?
Yes?
The answer can be only one.
These are refugees from the North who moved to Jerusalem.
That's very, very important.
And we have other things.
We see a rise of literacy in Jerusalem.
Okay?
Now, the Northern Kingdom was much more rich, was much more developed, yes, than the people
in Jerusalem who had the major inferiority complex.
So we can now say that the dramatic rise of literacy in Jerusalem is basically these
refugees.
And the second and the third and most important thing, this is when we see the fusion of Northern
and Southern stories that become, you know, one package that we know as the Bible today.
Because those refugees, when they come back, when they come to Jerusalem, they bring stories
about the North.
They bring stories about the glory of Ephraim.
They bring stories about the glory of Joseph.
They bring stories about the Northern patriarch, who is Jacob, yes?
Joseph is the Lord.
And these stories are now fused, because, you know, we have like two competing elites
that are now living together, they are fused into one single story about three patriarchs,
you know, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.
The stories of, the stories of Joseph are now weaved in into stories about his relationship
with Judah, yes, etc., etc.
And the authors of the Bible, they give a little bit, you know, for example, they give
the glory of Joseph and so on.
But basically, they also fault him for being too arrogant, yes, etc., etc., etc.
And they create the story as we know it today.
And it's very clear that you have two different groups, the refugees from the North and so
on.
Now, let's actually move to the people who are actually exiled.
Where are they?
Because we know that at least 27,000 people did, where went to the Assyrian Empire?
Okay, archaeologists found in the past decades, in fact, that, you know, we see Hebrew names
surfacing in different sites where the Assyrian army was based.
Okay?
First of all, Sargon in the second says, I exiled that many people and I counted them
as Assyrians.
In other words, he basically made them Assyrian subjects.
And suddenly we find in different locations, you know, where the Assyrian army is based,
we find the cook whose name is Obadiah, yes, or we find another cook with another Hebrew
name.
And basically, you know, these people were basically incorporated into the Assyrian
army.
And if you know anything about Asian empires, you will find that anyone from Sargon the
second, all the way to Jinguishan and Tamilain in the Middle Ages, basically when they conquered
people, you know, one of the things that they did a lot is furnished their own armies with
conquered people in different ways.
And if we can move now quickly through the rest of the, if you can move through the rest
of the Babylonians and Assyrians, you know, very, very proud of all of those stories about
how many people, you know, they have deported.
And I think even, yeah, and you can even see the, the steely from 721 by Sargon the second,
where he says, you know, I besieged and conquered Samarina, I took his booty, 27, 290 people
who lived there, I gathered 50 chariots from them, I taught them their skills.
In other words, I gave them new jobs, I set my governor over them, and I impose upon them
the same tribute as the previous king.
In other words, those who stayed, I made them pay me taxes, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
Now, but this is the boring part of the story.
Yes.
The interesting part of the story, of course, yes, is not who was actually deported.
The interesting part of the story is the drama that the biblical author is making of it,
because the biblical author is interested in glorifying God.
And he says, Assyria was my road, you know, the way Isaiah said that, and it was the road
of my anger.
And, you know, I took the entire people and I removed them.
Yes.
Sargon II was a soldier.
He knew that he can basically, you can't take an entire nation and move them, exile
them, you know, about a thousand miles away.
Twenty thousand, it's okay.
It's less logistics, it's less food, it's less issues, and you actually do it, you know,
according to your imperial interests.
But God doesn't have imperial interests.
Okay.
Now, we put this story to rest, and let's talk a little bit more about the way we started.
I basically say, everybody's going to come back.
You know, these are prophecies of comfort, okay?
These are prophecies of comfort, of weak people who see a mighty empire, and in order to comfort
their people, they say, don't worry, you know, one day, the same God that exiled all of you,
that same God is so powerful, he's going to bring you all back.
Now, when Isaiah says that, he basically takes the two extreme points where you already
have communities of exile.
You have one in Assyria, and you have one in Egypt, and he says, God is going to reach
his hand to those lost in Assyria, and to those in Egypt, and bring them all over back.
Because these are the known edges of the world, if you live in Jerusalem at the time, okay?
The Oikiminah, right?
What?
The Oikiminah.
The Oikominah, yes, the known world.
And by the way, there's a little game here, you see, because when you say the end of the
world, today we mean the end of time.
But at that time, you actually mean the literal edges of earth, or the world as you know it,
okay?
Because your knowledge, your geographical knowledge is basically the knowledge of the
empire.
The empire is the one who unites all of these territories.
Yes, the empire creates all of this steel eye about its glory and all of these things,
and that Isaiah is a major consumer of all of this Assyrian propaganda.
And what he does, when he takes this Assyrian propaganda, he says, it's not the Assyrians,
it's God.
You know, this great empire, it's not them, it's God.
Yes?
Now, if you know anything about successful empires, you know, successful empires, there's
always the idea that, you know, basically the reason that they are so successful is
because God is behind them, okay?
There are very few empires that didn't really believe that, you know, or didn't use that,
but it's a very, very powerful argument.
Someone comes in...
Look at Josephus does that with Rome.
Yes!
Yeah, and it begins, it picks with Alexander.
Why did I conquer all of these people?
All of these people?
Why did I conquer this huge piece of land?
God is behind me.
Yes?
Or in fact, I am God, you know?
I mean, this is why Alexander was deified, you know, Roman emperors were deified, Augustus
became a divinity himself, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, okay?
We make gods all the time, okay?
Now, let's move back to where we're to the Second Temple period.
The Second Temple period ends the Biblical period, you know?
The Biblical Judaism, as we know it, Biblical Israelism, as we know it, is over.
And now we are left with a question.
In both Christians and Jews, being Neo-Biblical religions, in other words, religions that
are based on the Bible become now obsessed with the fact that one part of them is not
there, okay?
And again, as we begin by saying, this is about, you know, a body of the Israelite nation
that is not with us, but must be with us, yes, in order for the messianic process to
be complete, yes?
Now, and then you see the debates.
And at some point, you see, particularly when Christianity becomes more and more stronger
and more dominant, you see the migration of the obsession from Jews to Christians, okay?
In the Middle Ages, it's still very, very weak, but suddenly, when we move to the Age
of Discovery, you see an explosion about debates, about the lost tribes, because Christians
read the Bible as well.
And in fact, in the Age of Discovery, this is the moment where a lot of people, there's
a rise of literacy in Europe.
The Bible is being translated into English and into German and into other languages.
Many, many Europeans read the Bible for the first time, and they ask themselves, okay,
where are the lost tribes?
And then there is a little trick there, okay?
Remember that we said in Deuteronomy, there is a verse that says, another land, okay?
Another land in Hebrew is two words, eretz acheret, and it basically means another land,
another land, yes?
But already in second Ezra and in the second Temple period, it becomes a mythified kind
of land.
And because the people who write in Greek and they don't know Hebrew, they don't understand
it, it means another land.
They basically think that it's one word, and it's a name of that land, that it means,
you know, eretz acheret, yes?
Now if you can go to the map, okay, by Abraham Ortelius, okay?
Now if you, Abraham Ortelius is a major geographer slash cartographer in the 16th century.
He produces beautiful atlases with all the geographical knowledge of the world.
Am I, did I get it?
Is this it?
Yes, that's the one, okay?
Now here's the beauty of the whole thing here.
If you look at the yellow peninsula, okay, let's say between, let's imagine that you
know, you see the world and you see in the middle of the map, you see two big yellow
chunks there.
It's called tartaria, yes, which is the land of the nomads, et cetera, et cetera.
It's supposedly Siberia.
But in the middle, right in the middle, there's another yellow piece, yes, that is supposedly
the bearing straits, the Siberian size of the bearing straits.
Now that peninsula doesn't exist, okay?
But he makes it exist.
If you see the Greek, the green islands in the middle, that's supposed to be Japan, okay?
And to your right, if you move further to the right or further to the east, you know,
the pink part is supposedly Alaska, okay?
Now we can see what he wrote there.
But in the middle there, he writes, this is Artsaret, yes, which is the land of the Lost
Tribes.
This is where the Lost Tribes were exiled, you know, and they are there until this day,
okay?
This is a very serious cartographer, a very serious scientist who otherwise produces very
accurate maps, you know, of the world and his time based on the geographical knowledge
of this time, which is streaming into Antwerp where he lives, yes?
It's a superpower of geography in that period, okay?
But why does he create a fake peninsula at that particular location, okay?
Two things.
First of all, as a believer of the Bible, he believes that the Lost Tribes must be out
there.
Second, he already knows that most of Asia has been mapped, okay?
So if we know everywhere in Asia, in East Asia and in North Asia, you know, we need to
put them, we need to put them in a territory that is in the most North and in the most
East, yes, because they must be there.
Now, when I discovered this, it was very funny how I discovered that.
I realized that, you know, in the Middle Ages they kept, the more the people of Europe discovered
new territories in Asia, the more they discovered that the Lost Tribes are not there.
So what they did, let's say they arrived in Iran.
They pushed the Lost Tribes to be beyond Iran.
Let's say they basically arrived in China, they pushed and they realized the Lost Tribes
are not in China.
They pushed them beyond China, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, okay?
This is how they get to the most closest to the Japanese islands and closest to Alaska.
And what I did, I said, okay, if this is the logic of how they keep pushing them, you know,
North East, North East, North East, North East, I'm going to look at all the maps produced
in the 16th century in Europe, in one location, in the North Eastern most position in Asia,
and sure enough, I'm going to find the Lost Tribes there.
Of course, I'm not going to find them there.
I'm going to find, you know, people who claim that they are there.
And the map that before, or tell you, is made by someone, an earlier geographer slash theologian
by the name of Sebastian Munster from Basel, you know, he puts a little dot on the map
in the same location, he says, this is Arzaret, yes, this is another land, this is this other
land where the Lost Tribes are.
And he does it not because of a geographical fact or a geographical logic, but because
of a theological logic that works as follows.
They must be somewhere.
We already know all of Asia, and we didn't find them anywhere in Asia.
Let's put them in an inner, in the Eastern most position somewhere out there.
Now, why all of this is crucial?
Because from there, you can now understand how they get to the Americas and to the North
Coast.
Okay.
First of all, historically, it's true.
We know that the Americas were populated by humans probably 20,000 years ago when the
Bering Strait was still connected, yes, these are the Native Americans, yes.
But now it makes a lot of sense to us, even if we don't know that, you know, because we
say, okay, they walked and walked and walked and walked east, east, east, east, getting
further away from humanity until they cross and made it to the Americas.
And if you look at early Mormon literature, you will see that early Mormonism basically
places them in the North Pole, yes, and also in the Americas.
Now why this is very, very powerful?
Because the moment you place the lost tribes in the Americas, you turn the Americas into
part of the biblical world, right, yes.
And this is a very important obsession for a lot of early Christians who are coming to
the Americas.
Is America part of the Old World?
Yes.
Well, if the lost tribes, if the Israelites here are here, of course they are.
And before Mormonism, for about 200 years, you see a major obsession by major early Americans
to try to uncover the truth and to try basically to do all sorts of studies in order to prove
that the Native Americans are, you know, the descendants of the ancient Israelites, yes.
And there are many, many books about that, NYU Press just published another book about
the so-called, you know, Native American Israelite theory that is incredibly strong
in that period, okay.
And by the beginning of the 19th century, it exhausted people saying, you know, no more.
You can't really tell us that, you know, the Native Americans are ancient Israelites.
Forget about this.
It's nonsense.
You know, the Native Americans are still Native Americans.
And then Joseph Smith comes with a great solution to the problem.
How do you solve a scientific problem that you don't want to solve?
You solve it with revelation because revelation or the word of God is incredibly powerful.
So Joseph Smith says, forget about all of these scientists, you know, all of these ethnographers,
you know, trying to prove that the Native Americans, you know, that their languages
are basically remnants of Hebrew, the rituals, you know, basically are analyzed.
Forget about all of that, okay.
We know that we have, you know, revelation, you know, places the law strives and the tablets
here.
And that is very, very powerful because this is something that has to appeal to your faith
rather than to your logic.
Yes.
And that's the story, by the way, of the beginning of Mormonism has evolved into a beautiful,
very, very dynamic religion, you know, but at the nucleus of it is basically the idea
that, you know, the Native Americans were Hebrews, okay.
By the way, they are not the first, you know, already the Spaniards were starting to think,
maybe, you know, in Southern America, you know, some of the Native Americans in Southern
America are the law strives.
And by the way, some Spaniards actually use that argument in order to justify the brutal
conquests of their territories because some of them said, what we are doing right now
is continuing the divine punishment for the sin that the law strives had done, you know,
many, many years ago in the Bible.
In other words, what we are doing to the Native Americans right now when we find them, yes,
is basically part of, you know, continuing the divine punishment.
In other words, justification for the conquest, for the Spanish conquest, okay.
Now for all of those people who are trying, in the North of the United States, in the
Northern part of America, who are trying to find out why the Native Americans are, you
know, the descendants of the law strives, it's not about that, it's about restoration.
Why?
The Protestants come here and they want to convert the Native Americans into Christianity.
Now, if the Native Americans, in fact, are ancient Israelites who lost their ways, what
you're doing, you don't convert them to Christianity, you restore them to the true religion and
that is much more noble.
And not only is it much more noble, this is something that you can reconcile with the
idea of religious liberty because you're not really changing their religion, you're restoring
them to what they were before, okay, and that's much more easy to understand, you know, by
people who were basically moved to this land because of religious persecution and they're
coming in and they want to do two things, they desperately want the American continent
to become a biblical land, they desperately want not all of them, of course, you know,
but you'd be surprised how many, you know, are into this, you know, in particular, even,
you know, among the circus of the founding fathers, yes, and I mentioned this a little
bit in the book, you know, we're desperate into to have this idea of that.
Now, with the spread of the British Empire in particular, because the British Empire
is a Bible-reading Protestant empire, yeah, you see the same logic, the same obsession
and the same desire to find different ethnicities in the world, to discover them as the descendants
of lost rives, wherever the British Empire is going.
In Africa and in India, let me give you a very simple example about Africa.
In Africa, Livingston, you know, the most important priest and traveler and who is credited
with finding the origins of the Nile, you know, he writes a book, you know, about his
travels in the Zambezi River, okay, and he says, this place is full of people who are
looking for the lost rives, they are worse than the tzitzi flies, you know, everywhere
I go, I see all of these people who are obsessed with the lost rives, he also, of course, is
obsessed with different things.
He's obsessed with capitalism, commerce and Christianity, yes, and of course, with the
origins of the Nile and the Zambezi, you know, which are very, very early earthly things,
but he complains in his book that defines a lot of people who are traveling trying to
find the lost rives.
Now, what are these people trying to do?
They're trying to find a different African tribe and say, you are the ancient Israelites,
and once we reveal you as ancient Israelites, we can start the process of the end of days.
Now, it is a major justification in their eyes, yes, for the existence of the British Empire.
And another thing you can see in England at the same time, Isaiah said that the lost
tribes one day are going to become, you know, go to the islands of the sea.
So people saying, yes, you know what, we are in fact the lost tribes, we are blessed, we
are the divine blessing, yes, we, the reason why we're such a powerful empire is because,
you know, we are the fulfillment of this prophecy.
Now, the way it starts, that particular myth, which we call British Israelism, Google British
Israelism, you'll find out a tone about that belief that England and later on the United
States are in fact the descendants of the lost tribes and their success on earth is
proof, you know, that the divine blessing is working, but also is justification for everything
that they do.
Yes, there's a Canadian English lunatic.
His name is Richard Brothers.
Richard Brothers is incarcerated in the mental asylum in London at the end of the 18th century.
He writes a diary and in his diary he says, I had a revelation, we British are all over
the world because we are the lost tribes.
We are the 10 tribes, okay, and lo and behold, not everybody in London, but a lot of people
in London buy this story, okay.
It gives them an explanation to who they are.
It gives them explanation, it makes them part of the divine promise to Israel and it has
nothing to do with being Jewish, by the way.
Many British Israelites, Israelis became very, are seriously anti-Semitic.
It doesn't matter, okay, now, but it basically says, okay, we are part of this amazingly
divine stock and in my book, I also have maps that people draw how the British Israelites,
you know, moved all the way from that Artara, from that another land somewhere in the middle
of Asia, all the way to the British eyes, you know, in order to create this glorious,
amazing empire, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, okay.
Now, this is part of another powerful, very late development of the myth.
As we said, it's about the end of days, it's about being lost and it's about promise and
chosenness, but right now it also becomes about an identity because you can acquire an amazing
identity of, you know, glorious people that once existed and we cannot take this lightly
because around the same time that the British Israelites or shortly about maybe several
decades later, you know, another European people adopts an identity about, you know,
a glorious tribe that hailed from Asia and came all the way to Europe and create this
amazing nation, okay.
Some people, not a lot of people in Germany, develop the Aryan myth, you know, saying that
the Germans basically are descent and the Scandinavians are descendants of this great
Aryan nation, you know, that existed in Asia and migrated to Europe and it's an amazing
race, you know, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
That myth that in the 19th century, few lunatics are like playing with it, you know, becomes
a very powerful element of the identity of the Third Reich under Nazi Germany.
Now British Israelism is very, very different, but it has, in the 19th century incarnation
of it, it has the same element of European people who are adopting a powerful story of
migration, yes, of a chosen race.
Now, if you think about the Bible, one of the most important stories and the most important
stories of the Bible is the story of Exodus, you know.
What is the Exodus?
It's a story, it's a powerful story of migration, you know, of becoming a people through migration,
of transforming into a people with migration.
Now, I am not saying, and it should be clear to our listeners, I am not saying that the
story of the Exodus or Arianism or, you know, British Israelism are the same story, absolutely
not.
But it is about acquiring an identity to a people in a way that justifies and explains
what they are doing at that particular moment.
And didn't they apply it as fulfilled prophecy, kind of like the Hebrew Israelites?
You were on a show, Dagger Squad with my friend Garfield, you know, he deals with the black
community in America, and he says, they say when they were enslaved, they were the Exodus
reliving this prophecy.
Absolutely, absolutely, because what this story does, and this is why I respect the people
who believe that, it gives meaning, yes, it gives meaning.
Who are we, you know, to belittle the meaning and the comfort and the hope that people find
in the story of the Exodus, okay?
Now, even more than that, if you are uprooted, yes, being uprooted means loss of your identity.
One needs to find a new, powerful story, yes?
And then, you know, out there, the Bible offers you an incredibly powerful story.
It's a story about people who are punished and uprooted and went somewhere else, you
know, by God, but somehow preserve their identity, found their identity, found their
religious identity, yes, and held together.
It's about hope, it's about identity, it's about meaning.
And that is why you have a lot of people in the United States today, yes, who are espousing
this for different reasons.
For example, different Celtic groups, different white supremacist groups, you know, take the
part about, you know, Anglo-Saxon glory, and they say, this is who we are, okay?
This is what they take out of it, you know, they take this idea of, you know, great conquest
and so on.
And by the way, there's an interesting game there.
If you remember in the Bible, there's a moment where, you know, Joseph blesses, Jacob blesses
Menasha and Ephraim.
And Menasha is the older tribe.
But Jacob puts his head this way, okay, he says the older, the younger will be greater.
Now, if you look at, you know, British-Israelite literature, you will find that until the
end of World War I, England is Ephraim and the United States is Menasha.
In other words, the United States is the lesser brother, okay?
After World War I, when in fact, England is in decline and the United States is on the
rise, suddenly the literature changes, arguing that the United States is Ephraim and England
is Menasha.
This shows you how the myths can be reworked according to that.
Now, it is even more potent and more powerful for weakened and belittled minorities because
for them it also sometimes offers, you know, the possibility of revenge.
For example, there used to be a guy named Antonio de Montesinos in Southern America in the 17th
century.
That man shows up one day and he takes the Spanish argument that the Native Americans
are the lost tribes.
And he says, I found the lost tribes.
They are hiding out there and they are waiting with their souls to come and take revenge
on the Spaniards, okay?
So that becomes a story.
It's completely made up, but it becomes a story of comfort and the possibility that
we are now the weak, but one day, one day, we're going to take revenge against our oppressors.
If I may, Dr. Benit, this is amazing.
You have really, wow, we did a good fly by.
So Daniel does the same thing when he's pretending to be writing in the 6th century BC, but really
it's under Antiochus Epiphanes.
He's giving hope to the Jews under this Antiochus Epiphanes persecution that, hey, this is the
fulfillment.
This is happening in our day, but it doesn't happen.
And then it gets pushed and then the Christians start to borrow it.
Now my question is this.
This is where we get to the, like all the things you talked about are important and
valid to what we're going to do and for anyone who wants to explore this.
But the apostle Paul is this enigmatic, strange character who's quoting Old Testament.
Sometimes he's quoting that the nations like other nations other than Israelites seem to
play this role like in Romans chapter 15, he's quoting.
And then in Romans nine to 11, he's hitting these lost Israelites.
So my question is, since they don't exist anymore in reality, even though they exist
in the mind, do you think that it's possible or how can you jab this is Paul thinking,
you know, this Greek and this Phoenician and all these people in Rome, while simultaneously
Josephus is saying, no, there's only two tribes here and the rest are out here in this beyond
the river out here.
Is Paul thinking these are lost Israelites?
Yeah.
Okay.
I'm a no expert on Paul, right?
But you know, as a tricky Jew, let me connect to his tricky Jewishness, okay?
What is Paul interested in doing?
Paul is interesting in doing basically two things.
He wants to take the powerful part of the Old Testament as he lays the theological ground
to what would become the New Testament.
Okay.
So he takes the powerful stories there.
But he is also very much interested in expanding the scope of what we mean Israel.
Yes.
Right.
Would be Jews basically says that the scope of what we mean by Israel is very limited.
It means those in Jerusalem who call themselves Jews right now and maybe some communities
in the Mediterranean period.
You can't expand upon it.
You can't make it bigger.
But Paul understand that there's a universal potential there.
So he's struggling to find, you know, other possibilities of expanding the idea of what
Israel, the name Israel means.
And as he looks around, not in the real map, but in the imagined map of the world, he basically
says, look, just that there are some people out there, you know, who are Israelites and
we don't see them, you know, and we know that there are Israelites, you can be Israelites
as well.
You know, and Paul is very, very good at, you know, taking the, taking, you know, inventing
an inner Jew and taking him out.
Okay.
For example, he is the one who says, you know, you should circumcise the heart.
You know, basically the in what is circumcising the heart, the inner Jew or the inner Israelite
that is everywhere in humanity that could be circumcised.
He takes Isaiah, by the way, who basically says, Isaiah says like, and you should circumcise,
you know, and you should circumcise, you know, the foreskin of your heart, you know, in
other words, the bad things in your heart.
But when Paul does that, he basically follows this idea, this logic that he develops, that,
you know, being Israel is something greater than just the genetic biological.
Right.
Yes.
And Paul is saying this forever, but for whatever reason, there's a certain crowd of people
who use, so the thing is, they argue using the, the Hebrew Israelite and the British
Israelite idea somewhat, salvation is only for Israelites.
And then they claim they are Israelites.
So it's for us, they limit it, though, to only the 12 tribes.
So when they go to like Revelation one, 144,000, they don't believe that there's a scope beyond
ethnic Israelites.
Yes.
There's no humanity at large picture here.
Yes.
And here's the, here's the other thing about, which is, if we are allowed for making a comment
about, you know, history of religions, here's the interesting paradox about salvation.
Religions that offer salvation, such as Christianity and Buddhism, they expand because of that promise
of salvation for everyone.
Okay.
Religions that, you know, don't offer salvation for everyone, don't expand that much.
Okay.
Now, but it may, if they do, they expand through empires and, you know, conquests, et cetera,
et cetera, et cetera.
But here's the paradox.
Salvation is supposedly for everyone.
That's why everyone is attracted to this religion that offers salvation for everyone.
But you always have to make it exclusive because if it's for everyone, what's the point?
Okay.
Yeah.
Why gold is so much coveted?
Yes.
Because gold is, you know, a rare metal.
Okay.
What is this?
In my opinion, there's a little bit of a paradox there.
You always, and it's not all, not everybody, but you always want to basically say there
is one group, you know, that is more exclusive to the, than the others.
Okay.
Think about, you know, the left behinders.
Think about all of those people who basically develop all of these theologies that only
few righteous will survive, you know, the end of these wars, you know, think about all
of these theologies that basically, in particular in Christianity, but in Buddhism, you see
some similar things about chosenness.
Yes.
That, you know, basically, yeah, you know, everybody can be saved, but only few really
deserve to be saved.
Okay.
That is why, because, you know, you have these paradox, you offer salvation to everyone.
It becomes successful.
A lot of people buy into your religion, but then you realize, you know, you need to keep
salvation somehow exclusive in order to make people more, you know, into the idea of it,
because if into the idea of salvation, which is why he has like limits, like you get rid
of your foreign gods, don't worship idols, you don't have to circumcise, you can eat
whatever you want, but you can't do certain things.
So it's exclusive at the same time.
It's universal.
Yeah.
And in, to a certain extent, you know, Paul has argued is basically also is at war with
a version of Judaism that is spreading and becoming very, very popular.
You know, if you think about Romans and you think about Hebrews, he basically says, listen,
listen, this other story that other people have been telling you that you've been buying
is true, but not the entire truth.
You know, we have actually upgraded that.
Okay.
Paul is, in fact, in competition with other missionaries.
I mean, Judaism itself, you know, is spreading around, you know, and a lot of pagans are buying
into it, you know, that is part of, you know, his, his war.
When we read Paul, we need to read it in, in, in a specific context.
And I think you had a guest, Bart Ehrman, you know, he told me how to read Paul because
he read Paul in the scene, you know, imagine Paul standing there in a laundry place, standing
there in a place, in a workplace and talking to people.
Now, he's talking to people who already have been buying into part of the story because
they were, they were being exposed to other Jews, you know, who are not, you know, would
be Christians, just as Paul, or even to other Christians, okay, that Paul has a completely
different story, you know, or a part of a twist of the story that he's, that he's basically
marketing there.
And as historically we know, you know, he was very, very, very powerful.
Oh, yeah.
That's why we, that's why we have sent Paul.
That's a fact.
This whole thing makes me want to ask you, being an expert, not only on the lost tribes,
but you understand Hebrew, in, can you give us just a few theological points on the Old
Testament, we call the Old Testament, the Hebrew Bible, there are promises to the nations.
And this group that I'm telling you about, they go, they don't just take this to the
New Testament.
They want to run to the old and they say, and notice I used old, I don't mean it derogatorily
for people who are, you know, faithful Jews, but they go there and they say, anytime you
see a promise for the nations, plural, is it, what is it, the, the, the, the Goyim,
the, the ethnic, you know, it's always referring the way they describe it.
If it's Thomas salvation to the nations, it's only talking about the Israelites who get
scattered among the nations.
They never even allow the nations to be other than that.
That is, that is, you know, this is something that is not exactly my expertise.
I'm going to give you my interpretation as a story.
Okay.
If you look at the prophecies of Isaiah and, and, and Jeremiah in particular, both of them
prophesize at the moment of a rising empire.
Now, what empires do is they bring a lot of people together through conquest and so on.
What they cause is in fact, what we can call globalization.
Now, when you have globalization, you become acquainted with other peoples.
Right.
You kind of, and so on.
And if you look at Isaiah and, and in Jeremiah, you see attention there between two types
of prophecies, prophecies, you know, to the Israel people, to the people of Israel or
to the people of Jerusalem.
Okay.
But at the same time, universal prophecies as well, because they live in a world that
is no longer a world of one national, small kingdom with one national goal.
They live and they need to account for a success of a multi, multinational, diverse
empire, yes, that they are part of.
And then part of the prophecies is what they call prophecies to the nations or to the
Goyim or to Umota Olam.
And then you see two types of prophecies.
And in fact, emerges two types of prophets, prophets.
You know, one prophet is a prophet who speaks to the Israel people, but at the same
time, you know, there's the prophet who's conscious of the fact that he lives in an
imperial, globalized world, and he needs to account for everybody else.
Okay.
That is why it is incredibly powerful.
If you look at, if you look at Amos and Hosea, who are earlier prophets, you see
that most of their prophets are exclusive, you know, to the Israelites and to the
Judahites.
Okay.
There's a little bit of, you know, a global world out there.
They mentioned Egypt.
They mentioned Assyria and so on.
But, you know, it's not like Isaiah and Jeremiah, who witnessed the rise, the moment
of a rise of an empire, which is incredibly dramatic.
You know, Isaiah witnesses the rise of the Assyrian empire, and he noticed all the
conquests and all the people who are being reshuffled and so on.
And he needs to explain that.
And he has a powerful thing where God speaks to Isaiah and says, Ah, Assyria, the
road of my anger.
Okay.
In other words, he takes all of the Assyrian successes and he says, it's all about our
God, you know, and suddenly the God in Jerusalem doesn't become, you know, the God
of Jerusalem.
Yes.
He becomes the God of the whole world.
Right.
Because he needs to account for all the imperial successes.
Jeremiah witnesses the rise of the, of the Babylonians.
Okay.
And again, I'm not writing another book about the concept of rise actually in Chinese
history, the idea of, you know, rise, imperial or dynastic rise.
Okay.
And one of the things you see is like, how do you know that you're on the rise?
You know, you begin to collect.
How do you know that you're on decline?
On the other hand, you're willing to collect signs.
You say, okay, we are now on the rise.
Okay.
If you look at England in the 19th century, during the time of Queen Victoria,
you say, we're certainly on the rise.
You know, if you look at England after World War II, World War I, you begin to
think, well, maybe not.
And if you look at England, you know, in World War II, Churchill understands,
that's it, the empire is over, the story is over.
You know, in order to save the UK, we need to sell our imperial assets, which they
do.
Okay.
Um, and so on.
So a prophet, as in this sort, has to account, you know, for the global changes.
He can't say, oh, you know, we just have a city God here called Yahweh, you know,
who basically presides over Judah and some Israelites.
No, that God has to account for everything as it happens there and so on and so forth.
Yeah.
Wow.
Okay.
I don't know if there's much more.
I mean, look, what I, what I'd like to ask everyone who's watching right now to
please do, and I'm dead serious.
You're going to love this book, especially if you are interested in this story.
The story goes beyond the pages of the Bible.
This story is still alive today.
You could just go down to Brooklyn, New York and meet Hebrew Israelites.
You can find British Israelites online.
You can always find someone who applies themselves to the narrative.
Even Christians who claim why never had ethnic participation, as Dr.
Benit points out, Paul is a cosmopolitan minded man.
In fact, I was going to mention Philo of Alexandria.
He was very ethnic, exclusive and cosmopolitan.
So he was like, yes, we're special people, but the law is meant for everyone.
And that whole like, hold on, Torah is for everyone?
Yes, but he even said it's got spiritual principles, but he didn't go all the way
to say, well, look, it's so spiritual.
That's all it was pointing to.
Get rid of it.
There were people he was combating against that were saying, look, for Torah,
when it says, don't need a pig, it means don't be a filthy man.
And you're, and you're, you know, like always interpreting things differently.
We see that kind of an Enoch, Enoch's kind of hinting at, well, you know,
the law was pointing towards, you know, these other things, not that the meat
itself going into your body was bad, but your activities.
So yeah, I don't know, you know, and perhaps we can close with that.
You know, let us not forget that Paul is basically a prophet.
Now he is a prophet in the context of a rising Roman empire, which he
tries to make sense of.
And here's the interesting thing.
All of these prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Paul, where marginal?
Jerusalem was a marginal location in the Assyrian empire.
The Assyrians didn't even care about to conquer it.
You know, even the Babylonians, the beginning says, OK, let's leave them alone,
you know, until, you know, they made a mistake and rebelled, you know,
and then they took over them.
OK, so, but these prophets, they sit on the margin and they see this big picture
and precisely because they are on the margins, you know, they can see the picture,
you know, they can see the mightiness of the empire and they have, you know,
this sort of a weird superiority complex intending the empire in its head and says,
no, it's all about our God that is making you so successful.
OK, to a certain extent, I believe that, you know, Paul is very, very powerful
because he writes on the margins of the Roman Empire and the closer that he gets
to the center, you know, he gets actually weak, you know.
I mean, the same happens to Isaiah and the same happens to Jeremiah.
OK, before they are swallowed by the empire, as long as they look at it
from the outside, they admire it in a way that basically they must turn it
into the great project of God, you know, because then the empire becomes
even greater than itself, you know, let me finish with one sentence
about one of my favorite, Jingis Khan.
OK, Jingis Khan conquers the whole world, basically, in the 13th century.
And after he does that, you have all of those people, Taoist priests,
Buddhist priests, you know, Zoroastrian people, they go to him and they say,
you know, we have a great prophecy about a great man who will come
and conquer all of the world, and we think it's you.
And what Jingis Khan says, yeah, of course, it's me.
He's not going to say no.
Yes. And the reason why I mention that, because in Jingis Khan,
we see the interaction between the great conqueror, you know,
and all of these minor prophets and marginalized people, OK,
which we don't see before.
You know, Isaiah didn't speak to Sargon the Second,
but I believe the Sargon the Second would buy every of Isaiah's prophecies.
Of course, I am the road of I'm the powerful of God.
You know, this is what Cyrus says. Yes.
It's a right.
It's a right. It's a. OK.
Wow.
Dr. Bindi, this was amazing.
This is amazing. Dr.
Benit, this was absolutely fantastic.
Thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen, go down in the description.
Check out his books on Amazon.
Please do so.
I hope we can do this again in the future, if you don't mind.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, let's have another debate, you know.
Yes, yes, let's find the lost tribes again.
Let's find them again.
Ladies and gentlemen, if you're lost and you're trying to find your way
and you're asking yourself, who am I?
I can tell you, you can just join us and find out real quick.
We are myth vision.
Yeah.
