Why, why are there four different endings to the Gospel of Mark?
Go sign up.
Dr. James D. Tabor did a course on Mark.
He goes D.V.
He's been teaching us for decades in high institutions.
Those ivory towers that I tell you about all the time, well, you can access that ivory
tower by taking a course with him online and checking out all of this stuff in high, high
quality bibliography packets.
It's all in 4K.
You don't want to miss it.
Also just to give you a sneak peek what it looks like inside of the course, seven different
lectures where we dive deep.
On March the 5th, for those who signed up for the course, we're doing a live Q&A session
asking Dr. Tabor questions pertaining to the course.
So the only way to be part of the initiation is to become an initiate and that is signing
up for the course.
So Dr. Tabor, tell us why there are four endings to the Gospel of Mark and maybe you wet our
appetite about this Q&A session, March 5th.
I'm really excited about the Q&A session and if we don't get through all the questions
in two hours, we'll schedule another session.
I see you as my students, an extension of what I did for 40 years or so in the classroom
at William & Mary Notre Dame where I taught University of North Carolina at Charlotte.
This course is appraised these really in seven lessons of what I taught and it's just like
we will be in a Zoom class room, so to speak, like we're all gathered around the screen.
We'll be able to see each other.
If you turn your video on, I can see you.
You can see me.
You don't have to do that for privacy purposes.
We are going to record it and it'll go up on the course page for future people that
missed it because this course is going to go on indefinitely and you own it for life
if you buy this course.
Really looking forward to that.
March 5th, noon, Eastern's time.
Even people way across the globe should be able to stay up late and see it and others
will be able to see it in the evening and we've tried to pick that time for a purpose.
Yeah, you know, Mark's got to be the only book with four endings in the New Testament,
the only writing with four endings.
Now the ending that I think is authentic, I'm going to say for the end, but I'll quote
you the last verse, it's March 16, Mark chapter 16 verse 8.
I messed that up, so I'm just going to pause a minute.
I think Mark might be the only book of the New Testament that has four endings in the
different manuscripts.
We have hundreds of manuscripts of Mark and the authentic ending I'll talk about at the
end, but the ending most people know is a forgery and it's admitted by many, many scholars,
evangelical as well as, you know, critical academic scholars were kind of agreed.
Mark ends in chapter 16 verse 8, I will quote it, and the women fled from the tomb for trembling
and astonishment had come upon them and they said nothing to anyone, period.
That's how it ends.
And if you take the course, you're going to come to appreciate that.
I'm telling you, it's like a curtain going down in a theater when you don't quite think
the movie or the play is over and everybody's looking around going, what did that mean?
Wow.
And that's what Mark wants to leave you with your mouth open.
But you know, that doesn't fit Christian dogma.
So 16 9 through 20, next verse 9 all the way through 20, that's got that great commission
going to all the world and baptize and he who believes in his baptize will be saved
and it's got the stuff about casting out demons and snake handling and all that.
It's in the King James.
It's in many conservative translations.
Now when the revised standard version came out around 1950, just after the war, World
War two, it was released.
They put that longer ending that everybody had in their Bibles in small print at the
bottom of the page.
And guess what?
There were book burnings, there were protests at churches, they're destroying our Bible,
they're taking away the word of God.
I mean, to go into the world and preach the gospel and baptize, you know, you don't want
to lose that, but it's not an original mark.
Let me say this, the traditional ending of Mark versus 9 through 20 is it actually destroys
the gospel of Mark because Mark wants to leave you with your mouth open and the last view
of Jesus you've had is not the glorious resurrected Jesus going around appearing to people.
It's actually dead on the cross where a Roman centurion says, truly this was the Son of
God.
Now you've got to take the course to get how that works, but you're going to come to
really appreciate it.
So what is this ending?
I said it was a forgery.
Whoever composed it, probably in the 6th, 7th, 8th century, maybe even, you know, it's
hard to know you can read about all the manuscripts that contain it, but it's pretty late.
All they did is they took part of the ending of Matthew, part of the ending of Luke, and
part of the ending of John, like it's got the two guys on the road to Emmaus.
That's from Luke.
It's got Mary Magdalene encountering Jesus at the tone.
That's from Matthew.
It's got the idea of going to Galilee and meeting Jesus in the Galilee.
That's from John, and it's also partly from Matthew, you see, with the Great Commission.
So that's just a, it's a cobble together ending that someone who didn't understand Mark thought
would help.
You know, it doesn't help.
Now there are two others, though.
Listen to this one.
Now remember, verse 8, they said nothing to anyone.
They fled the tomb.
We have manuscripts that say right after that, somebody's trying to help Mark out.
But they reported briefly to Peter and those with him, all that had been told.
And after these things, Jesus himself sent them out from east to west, proclaiming the
sacred and imperishable proclamation of eternal salvation.
I'm pausing here.
I mean, come on, really?
Does that sound like Mark?
Does that sound like any gospel writer?
Clearly, somebody wanted to make a kind of, I call it a glory hallelujah, you hear the
symbols clashing in the climax of the book, the sacred and imperishable proclamation of
eternal salvation, which Mark doesn't even talk about at all.
And then there's another version in Codex.
It's called Codex Washington Tonius because it's in, it's stored in Washington, DC.
This is my favorite.
It says, and they excuse themselves saying the age of lawlessness and unbelief is under
Satan, who does not allow the truth and the power of God to prevail over the unclean things
of the spirit, therefore reveal your righteousness now.
And Christ replied to them.
So it's actually them meeting with Christ, and this is Jesus talking in this bogus inning.
And what does he say?
He says the term of the years of Satan's power has been fulfilled, but other terrible things
draw near.
So he'd be against to give this like apocalyptic message.
And for those who've sinned, I was handed over to death, that they may return to the
truth and sin no more in order that they may inherit the spiritual and incorruptible glory
of righteousness that is in heaven.
Seriously, I don't think anyone listening would want either one of those two endings.
Let's print that in the Bible.
They're clearly bogus.
Now nine through 20, the one that most people have in their Bibles is more loved and more
treasured and used and quoted.
That's why we have snake handlers, right?
And that's have people drinking poison because that's in Mark 16, nine through 20, but it's
also bogus.
When you take the course and see the real power of the ending of Mark, I think at the
end you're just going to, your mouth's going to drop open.
And that's what always happened with my students.
And I can present it pretty dramatically, you know, where you just dropped the curtain
on the play, the movie, you're left thinking, wow, what does this mean?
Now people always ask, well, are you saying there's no resurrection of Jesus in Mark?
I'll tell you, I don't want to give it all away because I want you to learn.
But in chapter 16, before I get to that final verse eight, which is the real ending of Mark,
there is a young man in the tomb, interesting.
He's clothed in a white linen garment.
People come up with all kinds of things about who he might be.
And you know, we can talk about that.
But he says to the women, go tell Peter and the disciples that they will see him in Galilee
as he said.
The key is as he said.
Because what does he say about appearing in Galilee?
It's what, Derek, you've had several programs on this, apotheosis, and you joke around and
use the term all the time now.
It's a heavenly ascent or appearance.
And apparently, Mark knows that.
He does believe Jesus is raised from the dead.
But he doesn't think that the idea of these appearances are valid.
You know, well, let me just put it this way.
He doesn't report the appearances.
But he implies that there's going to be some glorified appearance in the Galilee, in the
north of the country.
Way out by Mount Hermon, Caesarea Philippi.
I remember I took you up there on the trip.
I think the disciples maybe had some kind of experience that Mark knows about up there.
But it's a visionary experience.
And it's similar to what people call the transfiguration.
Now why doesn't Mark have appearing to the 12 that day, eating with them, appearing the
next week?
Luke has appearances for 40 days.
Why doesn't Mark have all that?
I don't think those traditions have developed yet.
That's my view.
I don't think he knows them and leaves them out.
I can't imagine that.
I think he only knows one idea of what's called the resurrected Jesus.
But you know, if you look at the Greek word, what does the angel really say?
He says he's been lifted up.
That's the passive, the heiress passive of a gay road to lift up.
Let me give you another example of that verb.
Mark 9.27, Jesus heals a demon-possessed man, listen, and he took him by the hand and lifted
him up and he arose.
Was he raised from the dead?
Is that a supernatural miracle?
Casting out the demon.
That just means he grabbed the guy's hand and said, stand up and he arose.
Same verbs used in Mark 16.
So what Mark is presenting, very similar to Paul, is a heavenly glorified Jesus described
earlier in Mark 9.
And this lifting up of the demoniac is actually in that chapter also.
So you know, when people say, well, what does Mark say about the resurrection?
He doesn't use the word resurrection, lift it up just like you would lift somebody up
and they stand up.
So it's just a different understanding.
We go over all that in the course and explain it thoroughly and it's going to transform
your understanding.
You know, I have evangelical Christian students a lot in my Bible classes for years, especially
in North Carolina, you know, because we are in the Bible Belt areas, we sometimes jokingly
call it.
And everybody argues over whether the buck, where's the buckle of the Bible Belt?
Well, Charlotte could be that because we have so many churches.
And all over the Southern United States, you have these towns with hundreds and hundreds
and sometimes thousands of churches, Charlotte thousands of churches for sure.
So, you know, my students are often coming from these little towns around and they're
good churchgoing kids and they believe in their Christianity, which is great.
But you know what?
They love my course on Mark because to read a text carefully and not mix it all up together
and kind of put it like in a blender, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, it's all the same.
It's not all the same.
We just saw the ending of Mark is not the same as the ending of Matthew and Luke and
those bogus endings, just forget those.
So I don't want nine through 20 in my Bible.
The RSV now because of sales, they've decided to print it with a space, but they don't put
it in small print anymore.
It's still there.
And then they put some of the other endings as well.
But you know, that way, if you are a conservative Christian who thinks the bogus ending is real,
then you still can have it in your Bible.
But they do put a note and say this is not contained in the early manuscript witnesses.
So take the course, show up for the Zoom meeting on March 5th and be glad to address this very
question in depth with any of you.
You know, we've got really perceptive people taking this course.
I think it's going to be as good as any of my college classes ever were.
And Derek, you're going to be there.
You're real good at fielding questions.
You do it all the time.
So you know, it's tomorrow would be getting close to the weekend of March 5th.
So as we move into the weekend, it's not very long from now.
Well, I look forward to seeing you there, Dr. Tabor and everybody else.
Thank you.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
