What does it all mean?
What does it all mean?
It's about ambition.
We are MythVision. Welcome to today's show. I have been deeply fascinated the last few months reading about Stoicism and the creation of Christianity.
And I know how you all love to hear about how that happened.
Brett and I have brought Professor Stephen Brown to help us understand what ancient Stoicism is and how it has influenced modern psychology.
This is going to lead some to some interesting conversation, so stick around.
Keep up to date on our episodes by subscribing to our channel, hitting the like button, donating to our hosts on Patreon so we can upgrade and continue to bring you the best authors and scholars of mythology and related subjects so that we can grow in our understanding of the universe.
Stephen Brown is currently working as an instructor of psychology at Red Deer College.
He has a PhD in cognitive psychology from the University of Amsterdam.
He did a postdoc in the field of health psychology.
His PhD research focused on a small brain stem nucleus called the locus ceruleus. You have to correct me if I say that wrong.
Which is important for attention and vigilance.
His postdoc focused on heart rate variability and psychosocial stress.
He is teaching introductory psychology as well as more advanced courses on the brain, sensation and perception and statistics.
On the side, Stephen has read over 30 books on Stoicism but also reviews fountain pens on YouTube.
Today he is going to give us a presentation on Stoicism and how it has affected modern psychology.
Towards the end of today's show we will discuss how Stoicism influenced the beginning of Christianity in Rome.
I met Stephen at my friend Phil's house at a call to question event.
He is actually going to be one of my professors in a few weeks when I start at Red Deer College myself.
Which is good.
This is Rhett.
Hey, nice to finally be on the show with you guys.
With that said, why don't you take it away Stephen and we'll let you know if we have any questions.
Sure, sounds good but fun to be here.
What makes this interesting is that although I am a psychologist and although I teach psychology, I'm not a philosopher.
Stoicism is really something that has my personal interest but it's not something that I teach at the college or anything.
I should probably say for liability reasons these are my views, not necessarily the college's views.
It's just something I find really interesting.
I take a sip and then I shall talk to you a little bit about Stoicism.
Stoicism is a Hellenistic school of philosophy.
That means it's from ancient Greece.
And sort of the anecdote that people always tell of the beginning of Stoicism is that there was a gentleman called Zeno, Zeno of Citium.
Citium is something that was a city that's on what is now Cyprus.
And he was transporting a very precious cargo.
He was a merchant and his ship sank, which is a shame.
So he lost everything he owned and then he ended up, he made his way to Athens.
And as a destitute and now poor man, he made it to a bookstore.
I guess what else do you do when you lost your way, right?
So he made it to a bookstore, he picked up one of the books actually, scrolls right at the time.
And it turns out that that was Zenofon's memorabilia, one of the books with sort of memories of Socrates.
So he starts to read that. He finds that interesting.
His dad was known to have already brought him a couple of philosophy scrolls when he was younger.
He found that interesting and so Zeno talks to the bookshop owner and he says, this fascinating stuff is philosophy.
Where can I find one of these philosophers?
So the bookshop owner kind of looks around and says, there's one, follow that guy.
So Zeno does that and it turns out that that guy was Crates of Thebes.
Crates of Thebes was a cynic philosopher, someone from the school of cynicism, another Hellenistic school of philosophy.
And Zeno starts to study with that specific philosopher.
And Zeno actually to be fair, Zeno shops around a little bit.
He goes to a few other schools of philosophy as well.
And he learns stuff here and there.
And at some point he decides that the time is right and it's time for him to start his own school of philosophy.
Something that I've always found very interesting about that moment is that many of the schools of philosophy
in that time had their own buildings, Plato's Academy or Aristotle's Lycian or the Garden of Epicurus.
These were actual buildings or areas where philosophers teach about their school of philosophy.
But Zeno makes a very interesting choice.
He chooses to start teaching in a Stola.
A Stola is sort of a colonnade, a porch close to the market, a market in Athens.
That actual Stola is now destroyed.
But in any case, it was called the Stola Piccoli.
Piccoli means painted because it was, I think, war scenes, frescoes or war scenes.
And the fun thing about this, the relevant thing about that is that Zeno makes himself accessible to the public.
He doesn't have a little school building where you have to get in and that's not a threshold.
You can just go to the market.
You run into Zeno and Zeno stands there walking around vigorously which apparently he did.
And talking about all sorts of things.
So he makes himself very available to the public with which I think is very nice.
And he starts to teach and at first his followers are known as Zenonians.
Just like you have Aristotelian, for example, or the Epicurians, Zenonians.
And he later rejects that name.
And I'll come back to why exactly.
But it boils down to this and we can expand a bit on that.
Stoicism is sort of a virtue ethics type of philosophy.
I'll explain that in a second.
But what a stoic choice to do is emulate a sage.
That's their sort of paradigm of literally a wise man.
But I think it's a good idea to try and use general neutral language, so a sage.
And his students ask him, are you a sage?
And Zeno says, no, I'm not.
So you probably shouldn't call yourself Zenonian.
You should call yourself something else because I'm not the one to emulate you.
So given that he's teaching in Stoa, they start to be referred to as the Stoics, right?
People of Portia.
And that's where they got the name.
Now, something to understand is that at this point in time,
this is about 2300 years ago, right?
So at that point in time, there's no such thing as, say, a psychologist or a psychiatrist.
So if you have problems in your life, you can't go to a therapist to talk about that
because psychotherapy has not yet been invented.
But what you can do is go to a philosopher.
And actually in that day and age, philosophers kind of had the role in a way of what today we would call a therapist.
So you could go to a philosopher and you could learn about how best to approach life.
Now, of course, depending on the school of thought that philosopher belongs to,
that philosopher will give you specific advice, which will vary depending on the school.
Different schools would have different approaches to life.
Epicurians would kind of emphasize the pleasurable, the hedonistic things in life.
Stoics were kind of the other end of the spectrum in that regard.
But you can go to a philosopher and you can learn about a philosophy of life,
a way to approach life.
And Zeno does just that. He starts to teach philosophy, his personal type of philosophy.
And people start to listen and people also start to kind of send their kids to study with him
and learn his way of philosophy.
And people start to study that stuff.
Now, what does that exactly mean when you say, well, you study that?
Well, there's a couple of things.
Stoicism is traditionally split up into three branches, three things that you would study,
three aspects of a curriculum.
And in no, I would say no particular order as far as I'm concerned,
but there was logic and there was physics and there was stoic ethics.
Now, those three things, you could easily have several podcasts on each of these.
So in a nutshell, stoic logic taught about logical reasoning, logically valid reasoning.
What is a valid way of arguing?
Now, what is not so valid way of arguing?
At that time, because the stoics absolutely did not invent formal logic,
at that time, a very common was Aristotelian logic.
And if you study formal logic, and then you'll be very quickly exposed to something we call a syllogism.
A syllogism is just a type of reasoning.
You have a few premises, and from those premises follows a conclusion.
A conclusion will either be logically valid or will not be logically valid.
A famous Aristotelian syllogism, which has kind of been used to death,
so this is kind of my mind the prostitute of syllogisms, by many cases.
You, so often I'll say it anyway, is the example of all men are mortal.
Socrates is a man, therefore Socrates is mortal.
Well, that's very valid reasoning.
There's no way to argue with that.
If you put the premises in that way, all men are mortal.
Socrates is a man, then logically it must be valid that Socrates is also mortal.
That would be the categorical syllogism.
In other words, an Aristotelian syllogism.
Now, the Stoics kind of expand a bit on that whole logic, and they introduce something called the conditional syllogism.
Whereas the categorical syllogism starts with something like all men, or every man, or some men.
Conditional syllogism starts typically with something like if.
So I could say something like if it rains, then I get wet, it rains, conclusion, therefore I get wet.
That's logically valid, the conditional syllogism.
You can also flip that around just to see the fun of logic.
If it rains, then I get wet, I get wet, therefore it rains.
Now all of a sudden this is not logically valid anymore, and now you're talking about fallacy,
because when you think about it, all kinds of things could have made you wet,
you could fall into a ditch, someone could throw a cup of water in your face, it doesn't matter,
but all kinds of things could have made you wet.
So this is one part of what the Stoics would teach, logic.
Logic so that you can learn how to properly reason what a proper argument is, and what a proper argument is not.
The second aspect of the Stoic curriculum would be Stoic physics.
Now Stoic physics are incredibly complicated, but especially for my experience here tonight,
I read up on it a bit more just to make sure that I actually knew what I was talking about.
I've always found Stoic physics to be rather complicated, but in a nutshell you could say Stoic physics looks at the universe,
type of cosmology, cosmological reasoning, and kind of what the Stoics say is,
well you know when you look at the cosmos, then the cosmos kind of consists of a few things.
There is an active component, and there is a passive component to the universe.
The passive component is matter, that matter is acted on, but it doesn't really do any acting itself.
And then there is an active component, and that active component does do the acting.
Now Stoics would kind of equate that active component they have with different things.
Sometimes they call it nature, sometimes they call it the cosmos, sometimes they call it the logos,
and sometimes they call it God, so I think that's one of the appealing things of Stoicism.
It doesn't really matter what you are, whether you believe in God or don't believe in God,
you can use all kinds of terms to refer to this active component of the cosmos that does,
well in a way I suppose, creation, but it is there.
Another thing that's very interesting is that the Stoics say, actually humans are the same,
so humans have a passive component, and they have an active component.
A passive component is the matter you are made up of, and then there is an active component,
and that active component they would say is your soul, right?
Now the fun thing is that, and I find that a very interesting image, the Stoics say your soul is actually part of the logos.
They say there is the sort of the big cosmic logos, the sort of rational system that governs the whole cosmos,
but then there is what they call the logos spermatikos.
Spermatikos means exactly what it suggests, it means seminal, right?
So they say your soul is actually a seed of that cosmic logos, so in a way your soul is part of the cosmos.
And I always found that a very interesting and fairly poetic way of looking at things.
So there is that, right? That is part of physics, and then the other thing about the Stoic physics that I really enjoy is the idea of the configuration.
Configuration is something Stoics didn't invent either, they stole that from Heraclitus,
and Heraclitus says, well you know every certain period of time, I believe he actually pinned it down to great years.
The Stoics are a bit more vague about that, but they say at some point in time,
at some point in time the whole universe will go back to one element from which it was created, and that is fire.
And that means that after a certain amount of time has passed,
the whole universe will burn up in a configuration, like Pyros is in Greek.
And everything gets destroyed, the whole universe kind of gets destroyed,
very, again poetically, Cleontes, the second head of the Stoic,
describes how all the celestial bodies willingly throw themselves into the sun,
kind of like moths being attracted to fire.
Because there is the logos, this universal sort of ratio, which governs everything,
which means that the whole universe is sort of a living sentient being, and so are all the celestial bodies.
So they have a will, and they choose to throw themselves into the sun and a configuration.
And the only being that then survives that configuration, Stoics say, would be Zeus.
The most important of the gods, who would then recreate the entire universe just the way it was.
Because Zeus is a perfect being, perfect beings can only do things one way, the perfect way.
So the whole universe gets recreated, is reborn, everyone in that universe is reborn,
and you would lead out exactly the same life that you have let out now.
Because all of that is determined by Zeus, by the cosmos, by the logos, whatever you want to call it.
And there's only one way to do it.
So it is boring, it's also a really weird idea to have that if that is true,
and in a way there actually is a cosmological theory, like a more scientific theory
that actually says something of that nature, that the whole universe kind of, you know,
a big bang and then you kind of collapse on itself again and there'll be another creation of the universe, etc.
So in a way it's interesting, I think purely coincidental, but the story said something similar.
But it's interesting to have this idea of you will lead out that same life again and again and again,
and eternal cycle kind of screws in your mind a bit when you think about that,
and if that is true, what it would mean is that we have sat here before,
maybe thousands of times saying the exact same things, right?
And when you just said that's boring, then you have said that thousands of times before, at exactly the same point in time.
So that's a really strange thing when you think about it, like that would happen.
So it tends to mess with people's minds.
So now we have talked about logic and stoic physics,
and the final thing that you could study in the stoa was stoic ethics.
Stoic ethics is something that interests me a lot because it deals kind of with how to approach life,
how to live your life, and how to not live your life as in a prescribed sense,
but live your life in such a way that you make the most out of that life.
And it's always a bit confusing because, of course, this day and age, if we say ethics,
then we kind of think of interesting moral choices, like should euthanasia be legal, should it not be legal, etc.
But in that time, in the time of the stoics, ethics really was about the philosophy of life,
how best to lead your life in such a way that you will get the most out of life, how I'll put it that way.
And there was actually a term for that in Greek philosophy, fdemonia, which is a little tough to translate,
but let's call that something like a rich and fulfilled life.
So the goal in philosophy is how exactly can you lead that life?
What do you need to do to have that and to not suffer, not feel bad?
So that is the basic, we call it, tripartite union of the three branches of stoicism,
and there are all kinds of analogies the stoics use.
For example, they said, well, logic is actually a fence surrounding a field,
and then you have a tree in there which is physics, and then that will actually bring forth fruits,
and those fruits are the stoic ethics.
That's a way to conceptualize, and there's this multiple ways also compared to animals,
like the bones and the flesh, etc., or to an egg even, whatever.
But in any case, three important branches that are interrelates.
Now, when you talk about stoicism, then typically we make a division into the early, the middle, and the late stoa.
The early stoa, well, I could start with Zeno, who founded the school, obviously.
The second head of the school was Cleantes, and the third head of the school was Chrysippus.
I'm not going to list every single name of the school, but I mean, those are the three sort of the trio
that really set up stoicism, especially Chrysippus, for example, was incredibly prolific,
as Arthur wrote a lot, really did his best to refute all the arguments against stoicism
that were raised by Epicurians, and mainly by the skeptics.
So, Chrysippus was very important, as was Cleantes, but Chrysippus was such a prolific writer
which made him very, very interested.
Now, the problem with all these dudes is that whatever they wrote is destroyed.
At best, we have a few fragments from their scrolls, but most of their stuff has been lost to the tooth of time, so to speak.
So, we don't really have much of their material.
Fortunately, there were doxographers, Diogenes Laertius is one, Johannes Tobias was another.
These were people who kind of wrote about important people.
So, it's a specific type of historian, the doxographer, and if you look at Diogenes Laertius, for example,
he wrote ten books called, I think, the Lives and Ideas of Eminent Philosophers,
and although he was not a stoic, when he wrote that, we assume all these scrolls were still available,
so he kind of summarizes what all these different schools of thought actually were about.
So, he talks about Epicurianism, and he talks about Socrates, and he also talks about Stoicism,
and he kind of summarizes that.
I always have to be careful, because of course, Diogenes was not himself a stoic,
so maybe he misrepresented some stuff, maybe he didn't understand some stuff,
maybe he deliberately misrepresented some stuff, because it was not his school
and kind of wanted to make it look bad.
So, taking all those things into account, you have to be careful when you read something like that,
but a lot of what we know about the early Stoic we know from Diogenes Laertius.
So, then what do we know about the early Stoic?
Well, he wrote quite a bit about it, but I think one important thing is that
Stoicism kind of boils down to the proper use of reasoning.
If you reason rationally, if you reason in such a way that your reasoning is kind of in unison with what you like,
the universe or the logos, then you will do well.
If you reason in such a way that you go against established nature, and we can expand a bit on that,
then you will start to suffer.
So, one thing that is important to them is you have to live in harmony with that nature,
with the logos, the cosmic logos.
Another thing that is important is the detachment of externals.
That will come back to you.
So, we have living in accordance with nature.
Zeno actually famously summarized that as live consistency.
That's pretty bad teaching, because that is incredibly vague and hard to interpret.
Live consistently.
So, it was his successor, Cliente, who actually said,
what my man meant is live consistently with nature.
Live in such a way that you do not try to go against the universe,
kind of go along with what the universe put in your path, and you will be okay.
So, that's the early Stoic.
Now, there's a couple more, but those are the three important players in the Stoic.
Then we go into the Middle Stoic.
Now, the Middle Stoic had some important people.
Poseidonius is a famous one.
Poseidonius was a brilliant mind who wrote about all sorts of things,
ranging from philosophy to geography to astronomy to meteorology.
Pretty much everything, a polymath, we would say.
But most of his writings are destroyed.
So, unfortunately, we again do not know a lot about the actual details
of what Poseidonius actually wrote.
And there was Panaceus.
Panaceus also wrote a lot of interesting stuff.
But again, same deal.
Most of these people's writings are gone.
So, we run into it, and we spot a trouble there.
So, typically, when people talk about Stoicism,
they either base themselves on the work of doxographers,
like the Argenis Leirises.
And that is how they say something about the early Stoic.
Maybe a bit of the Middle Stoic.
But of course, at some point, the Argenis Leirises died,
and the Stoic kind of continued to develop after his death.
And that is not in what he wrote about,
because he was dead and people who were dead don't tend to write so much.
So, that's a bit of an issue, right?
So, that's a fact of life, right?
You kind of retire when you die.
So, that's one point.
But then, you have the late Stoic.
And in the late Stoic, things start to get a little interesting,
because we have a lot of writings from people from the late Stoic.
So now, we can finally refer to actually primary sources
from actual Stoics, as opposed to people who are not necessarily Stoics,
but who happen to be summarizing what they think Stoics actually meant, said, did, etc.
So, who are you talking about in the late Stoic?
Four people, I would say.
And the balance shifts now, from ancient Greece to Rome.
Now, all of a sudden, we're in Rome.
Stoicism has made its way to Rome.
And those four key players from the late Stoic are in sort of chronological order.
Gaius Mussonius Rufus.
Mussonius Rufus was of the equestrian order, which means that he was sort of a knight.
In Europe, you would call that a knight of Roman society.
He was a philosophy teacher, a very sort of clear-cut philosophy teacher.
That is what he did.
And he had one problem.
He didn't write anything down.
But there were people who took note of what he said.
And we do have a couple of his lectures.
One would hope, recorded as verbatim as possible.
But in any case, we have lectures that claim to be Mussonius' lectures.
And we have some fragments, little bits of sayings from Mussonius.
Better than nothing, right?
Then we have a very important person for the late Stoic, Epictetus.
And Epictetus, that means something like a quiet, because Epictetus was a slave.
But his master, who was actually one of the secretaries of Miro, the emperor Miro,
his master allowed him to study, to go out and go to school.
And Epictetus chose to go to school with Mussonius Rufus.
So he starts to learn about philosophy, and specifically Stoic philosophy.
And at some point he becomes a freedman.
He's no longer a slave.
He is allowed to establish his own school of philosophy, which at some point has to leave Rome,
because a Roman emperor kind of banished all philosophers from Rome.
So he goes to Nicopolis, sort of in Greece.
And he establishes a school there. So he teaches.
Now, one interesting aspect of Epictetus is Epictetus also didn't write anything down,
just like Mussonius Rufus.
Are you saying Epictetus or Epigetus?
Epictetus. It's E-P-I-C-T-E-T-U-S.
That very Epictetus. Yes.
Now, the question that arises right now is,
how can Kevin hold up the book of Epictetus if Epictetus didn't write anything down?
Good question. Glad you asked.
The reason for that is that Epictetus actually had a student called Arian.
Arian did incredibly well for himself, became a high-ranking Roman politician.
But Arian studied with Epictetus and thought,
now this is some interesting stuff.
So he starts to record the lectures of Epictetus.
When I say record, I mean write down.
In his own words, verbatim.
He claims to have written down verbatim what the master Epictetus taught.
Those writings are collected.
Epictetus, lectured in Greek, are recorded in Greek.
They are called Theatribe.
So in other words, diatribes.
And were later translated into Latin as dissertationes.
And now, in English, they are called,
I'm just pretending to be a snob by using all these four words.
So in English, they are called the discourses.
Now, we know, because of what people refer to,
that they used to be eight books.
So again, you should actually say eight schools.
But let's say eight books of discourses.
But we only have four left.
One, two, three, four. What happened to five through eight?
We don't know.
Which suggests that at some point, I think in the Middle Ages,
these were two separate manuscripts.
And one of those got lost somehow.
So we have books one to four.
Arian also created the book that Kevin was holding up.
Sorry, the Anchorideon.
The Anchorideon, fascinating.
And another, a lot of these ancient Greek terms are hard to translate,
but the Anchorideon means something that you carry around.
So that regarded a handbook,
which is why in English it's often referred to as the handbook or the manual.
It goes a little further than that.
Anchorideon also means something like something you have,
like sort of figuratively, you hold.
So something you hold at the ready, like say a dagger to defend yourself.
And that's a very apt title for that book,
because it basically consists of aphorisms, sayings,
short bits of text, some are a little longer,
but hardly ever are they more than a few pages.
Usually they're quite short.
Kind of a distillation of the absolute core
of what it was that Epictetus taught about.
So Arian wrote the discourses as Epictetus's full lectures,
and he wrote the Anchorideon as sort of like an,
is an expurgated version, a quick summary, an abstract,
if you want to learn about sources, and this is it.
But that book became incredibly popular,
was carried around by a lot of famous people in the history.
Was it this Anchorideon that was handed out to the Roman soldiers in the first century?
Yeah, I'm pretty sure it was that.
And also because it is much shorter than the discourse,
I mean the discourses, you really have to sit down for and read.
Because that's a few hundred pages, that's the books.
Whereas the Anchorideon, if you really, if you do your best,
you could read that an hour, hour and a half,
because it's a pretty short book, so you can easily refer to it.
And because all of those teachings were also compressed into short,
little sort of easily digestible bits,
it becomes very easy to memorize, for example,
which was beneficial to, I think, Roman soldiers,
and I think that's beneficial to a lot of people.
So I always recommend people to do, check out that book.
Okay, so, now we have Mussonius Rufus,
the knight who was a philosophy teacher.
Then we have Epictetus, who was a slave,
and then became a philosophy teacher.
Then we have the third important person,
with a name that I kind of reproduced from the top of my head,
because he has no less than five.
Marcus Aurelius Antoninus,
philosopher Augustus, right?
Indicating that he was an emperor with a nickname,
philosopher.
He actually had philosopher as a nickname.
So now you have...
That must have been nice.
Sorry?
That must have been nice for him.
So this was actually the Roman emperor?
This was actually the Roman emperor.
Not the emperor Augustus, this was the emperor Marcus Aurelius.
Yeah.
So if you've seen Gladiator,
and you remember that old emperor
that gets strangled to death by his own son at the opening,
that was Marcus Aurelius.
In real life, he didn't get strangled to death by his son.
That was an interesting play of history.
But that was Marcus Aurelius,
who also kind of with a wink to his real life asks Maximus,
how will I be remembered as Marcus the warrior,
Marcus the philosopher?
And that was the answer.
Yes, the philosopher is how he became known in history.
So a philosopher teacher,
you have a slave, and you also have an emperor.
And the emperor of Rome, he lived 121-188 AD.
His life weakened, like pinned down pretty well chronologically
because he was a Roman emperor.
So there's a lot of people who wrote about him.
He was the most powerful man in the world.
The Roman emperor, at that point in time,
was the most powerful man, the biggest army,
the most powerful army,
the biggest, like, huge surface of land.
So he was a very important person.
Marcus Aurelius was from a young age attracted to philosophy
and was actually given by one of his teachers
a copy of the discourses of Epictetus
and also describes that in the meditations.
He talks about this.
So Marcus wrote,
thank God we have a philosopher who actually wrote himself
and did not, you know,
had someone write down his stuff or something, right?
So Marcus wrote.
Now, he never intended that book to be published.
It was more like a diary.
In Greek, it's called, he wrote in Greek,
the language of philosophy interesting for a Roman emperor
who would have spoken Latin, right?
But the Greek was the language of philosophy.
He wrote a book entitled To Himself.
So it wasn't sort of like a diary,
where he does sort of philosophical exercises
to make himself think about things.
And that book we have,
and it's now known in the West typically as the meditation.
At some point someone decided to give the title meditations
and that's what stuck.
Meditations are not easy to read.
In fact, some of them are incomprehensible
because he wrote to himself,
we don't know what he, he has weird stuff like
the filth of a pig.
And that's an entire chapter.
And you're like, I don't know what this means, right?
But I mean, but then there are other things,
of course, that had meaning to him.
And there are other things where he kind of expounds
his whole philosophical ideas,
which were in fact, very stoic,
given that he was exposed to appetitors
and was actually taught by a stoic tutor.
So they had a lot of philosophical thoughts
very much based on stoicism.
Okay, then the final person to talk about,
now we can get to sort of the nitty-gritty
of stoic ethics.
The final person was Lucius and he is Seneca.
Seneca the younger, there's also a Seneca the older
and obviously, but Seneca the younger
was a bit of everything.
He was a playwright, he wrote interesting plays.
He was an all-racer, he spoke in public and such.
He was also a sort of a, what do you call that,
like a guardian to the emperor Nero,
supposed to be sort of a tutor to the emperor Nero.
And Nero was nuts, right?
As we know, Nero was a bit insane.
So in the end, Seneca is forced to commit suicide by Nero
and we lose Seneca.
But Seneca had written a lot.
Seneca wrote a lot of things, not just plays,
but one of the very interesting things that Seneca wrote
is a set of letters, moral letters we say.
And those letters he wrote to a person
that we were actually not sure if that person really existed.
But Seneca writes about philosophy to this person.
He writes about his philosophy, which is stoic philosophy,
and he writes about how that person should handle
specific things that happen in his life,
that he, you know, how to handle that, what to do,
what not to do, how to think about things, etc.
And in that regard, I would say that
Seneca probably was the most prolific stoic author
because he wrote those letters.
He also wrote a bunch of essays, moral essays on how to behave.
So we have a lot of these things,
and those texts are important texts
for those people who do study stoicism.
So, okay, so we have Seneca.
Right, that's where we ended up.
We have Seneca.
Seneca wrote a lot.
Seneca is the point source of information.
Right.
Now we have all the basics.
You know how stoicism started.
We know a little bit about the physics.
You know a little bit about the logic.
You know about the big players.
And I think the real question is,
how does stoicism work, right?
Like what exactly does it do?
What does it not do?
Well, I think that you could say that stoicism has two goals.
One goal is living in accordance with nature.
Right, that's something that Zeno emphasized
and that Clienti's Chrysippus,
that all those big guys emphasized.
Marcus Aurelius does it constantly in his meditations.
He consistently emphasizes just living in accordance with the universe,
do what the universe wants you to do,
you'll be fine, etc.
So, absolutely nothing technical happened.
So you have, we were talking about Marcus Aurelius.
Marcus Aurelius, emperor, world book, right?
And I would say that the final person,
if you really want to talk chronologically,
that actually came before Marcus Aurelius,
but the final of these four great Roman stoics,
of the late stoa,
the final person would be Seneca.
Lucius, Anais, Seneca, a.k.a. Seneca, the younger.
Seneca the younger was all sorts of things.
Kind of dabbled in, I don't know what you call that,
amateur politics or something,
because he was an advisor to Nero,
same emperor Nero that we all know as a very interesting person.
Nero derailed more and more throughout his life,
and in the end forced Seneca to commit suicide,
not the most pleasant of matters,
so Nero was definitely interesting.
But Seneca wrote a lot.
Seneca was also a playwright.
Seneca wrote a number of moral essays,
a very interesting one called Deira on Anger,
De Tranquilitate, I think is another one,
on Tranquility, I want to say.
In any case, he has written a number of these essays,
De Constancia on Constancy,
so very interesting about how to,
for lack of a better word, keep your cool.
And a lot of these, we think, we're kind of focused on Nero.
We're kind of like implicit ways to give it to his pupil
and say, here, read this.
This is about how not to lose your stuff
and actually came to him, maybe you should read.
And of course it didn't work,
because in the end Nero forced him to commit suicide anyway.
But another thing that's quite interesting
is that Seneca wrote a whole set of letters,
Epistolei Morales, and these letters,
a couple of over a hundred,
he wrote quite a lot to a person that may have been real,
may also have not been real, we're not 100% sure.
In any case, he kind of expounds his philosophy,
which is quite stoic,
although he also quotes Epicurus a lot and says,
I know he's from the enemy camp,
but it's also good to kind of look at what other people are saying,
which is interesting thought.
So maybe it's a slightly sort of eclectic stoicism,
but in any case, there's a lot of stoic thought in those letters,
so people who study stoicism typically find those letters quite interesting,
because he explains to this person, I think it was Lucilus,
how to live, what do you do when this happens?
Dear Lucilus, you told me about that this person, you lost a friend,
well, let me tell you about that, etc.,
and then you get sort of reasoning about how stoic would handle that sort of situation.
So quite interesting.
One comment on Seneca is that he was pretty much a billionaire
because he was one of the first investment bankers,
and he was very, very, very rich,
and some people say, well, it's kind of easy to be more philosophical
and tell people to be philosophical,
because you have so much money, right,
that, yeah, not necessarily a completely fair way to be a philosopher,
but that's a whole different discussion.
So I think the interesting question that then remains to us
is how a stoic doesn't work, right?
What exactly do you do if you say, I am a stoic,
and then what does that mean, what do you really do?
Well, in a nutshell, I think there are two important things,
two important aspects of stoicism.
On the one hand, you have detachment of the external things that can happen to you,
and then you have the desire to live in harmony with nature,
something that Zeno already said, live consistently,
something that Clienti's second head turned to live consistently with nature,
live in harmony with nature,
nature being the cosmos, racial, the logos, God, whatever you like to call that.
As I said before, that logos is taken to be an active force in the universe,
you can also call it fate, if you want,
and that will put a whole bunch of things on your path.
And you can choose to go along with those things,
or you can choose to go against them, and rebel against them.
And stoics would say, well, if you do that,
if you go against it, you won't be happy.
So the ancient Greeks, as I said before,
they had a word for this, eftimonia,
this sort of richly fulfilling life.
One of the goals of stoicism through these two basic goals, right?
Detachment of externals, from externals,
and to live in harmony with nature,
is to lead that rich and happy life.
Now, the question is, and how do you do that?
Because that's still very vague.
Live in harmony with nature can kind of suggest you throw off your clothes
and start hugging trees, but that is not at all
what stoics meant by that term.
So, stoics would say, you could say there are three disciplines.
You can practice, or you should practice, virtue.
Stoic ethics, that's what I'm talking about now,
how to live your life according to the stoics.
Stoic ethics are a type of virtue ethics.
There are other schools in Hellenistic philosophy
that also were virtue ethics.
Stoicism is one.
That means that the stoics say there are two things in life,
virtue and vice.
If you choose the path of vice, you will suffer,
you'll never feel good.
If you choose the path of virtue, you will feel well,
you'll feel good, you'll be a happy person.
And in between these two things, traditionally is nothing
except the stoics modify that idea a little bit
because the idea of virtue versus vice,
you will find in a lot of Hellenistic schools.
Stoics modify that a little bit,
and then just a second.
So how do you do this?
How are you virtuous?
Well, that's a very interesting, very complicated question.
The stoics pretty much say,
well, virtue consists of four things.
Practical wisdom, meaning knowing what to do,
making the right choices, wisdom.
Then there is courage.
You can know what the right thing to do is,
but you also have to do it, right?
And that's not always easy.
So that would be courage, not just in battle,
but also in your everyday life, doing the right thing.
Then there is justice, which is more of a societal thing
than a real individualistic thing.
Society needs justice.
If you commit a crime, you will be punished,
and we have said in our society that that is justice.
And finally, there is temperance,
maybe a slightly archaic term,
but temperance means something like everything in moderation.
You shouldn't do too much of a thing,
but you shouldn't do too little of a thing either.
What is it?
Temperance.
Yes, temperance.
And again, you can also just call that moderation.
Everything in the right proportion.
I always struggle with that in the face of chocolate.
You can have too much of it, right?
And then it's not a good thing anymore.
So everything in moderation, and as Oscar Wilde added to that,
everything in moderation, including moderation.
And they're called the cardinal points?
Yes, the cardinal virtues.
Because these are also, I would say,
largely accepted in Catholicism, for example, in Middle Ages.
But there is always a little bit of debate,
because you can also add some to these,
or you could take away from these.
Some people say there are seven cardinal virtues,
some say there are five, some say there are four.
This is pretty consistent with Stoicism.
But of course, you could come up with some others.
I mean, for example, something that is sometimes added to this
is philiopiety, right?
The duties you have towards your parents.
You can debate whether all of these should be virtues,
but I mean, that is something you could add to it.
And that is also something that appetizers advocate, for example.
You just talk about how you should, and so does Rufus, by the way,
how you should conduct towards your parents.
But anyway, yes.
Do you remember that movie, Warriors of Virtue, with the kangaroos?
Yes.
And I wonder if they got some of their ideas from Stoicism then?
It's possible.
I mean, it's something that when you start to think about it,
I think that you see in a lot of different,
let's call it pop-cultural phenomenon.
Gene Roddenberry based Mr. Spock on the Stoics.
That was supposed to be sort of like a representation of Stoicism.
I think he didn't fully understand Stoicism.
But the idea was that it would represent that aspect of human history
and philosophical history.
So you see that in a lot of contexts and movies, for example.
What a great movie that was.
It was like the furry Ninja Turtles.
Yes, exactly.
By all means, it's possible they were their influence.
So, okay.
Wisdom, courage, justice, temperance.
But that is still pretty abstract, right?
I mean, I don't think a lot of people wake up in the morning and say,
today I'm going to be really just or I'm going to do something really wise today.
So that's actually pretty difficult.
Just I have to ask because I immediately think of the four cardinal signs of the zodiac
because I'm into astral theology.
And I think this is to me, it kind of fits the daily cycle
or even the religious calendar of the Jews where it would be wisdom is spring,
courage is summer, justice is fall with Libra, the scales of justice.
And then you have temperance where you need to be self-controlled since winter.
You have to be careful.
So I just saw that before, but I just wanted to mention.
Not only that, but sorry.
But not only that, but it's an stoic, what is that?
An stoic physics.
It all repeats.
Well, that's a cycle of time too.
Interesting.
Yeah, so I'm always I'm always meditating on the cycles, which is the cosmos of Pythagoras,
which would be the zodiac.
And I'm seeing all the relationships, but we'll get into more of that at the end.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure.
Yeah, so.
Okay, so we have this, we have some calling cardinal virtues and all aspects of virtue,
that you should strive towards.
But then how do you do it?
How do you do all this?
Well, often we make sort of a separation into three things.
There is desire, and there is action, and there is ascent in stoicism.
So the, and again, all of this, what I'm saying now is sort of in the service of living virtuously,
doing the right thing.
How do you do that?
How do you do those things in such a way that they are in harmony with nature?
How do you do it?
So let's first look at the desire.
A very famous aspect of stoicism.
So famous, because it is the first chapter of the Enchiridion.
Epictetus said, or taught, and Arian wrote down,
some things are within your control, other things are not within your control.
Which sounds like an incredibly obvious thing to say,
but it is something that a lot of people forget about,
especially when a crisis hits.
I always tell people that it's very easy to sort of sit drinking tea when everything is going right in your life,
in my case, maybe eating chocolate, but in any case, sitting and sort of saying you're a stoic and then everything, you know, it's easy.
When someone you love dies, or you fall ill, or something bad happens in your life,
suddenly it's a bit tougher, right, to just say,
oh, it's okay, it's accordance with nature, it's fine, you know, it's a lot more difficult.
So it's an important point, I think, that Epictetus makes,
and stresses many times throughout the discourses, and also in the Enchiridion,
some things are within your control, other things are not within your control.
And the stoics, I don't think they necessarily called that,
but later that became known as the dichotomy of control.
And of course, this is kind of where wisdom comes in,
because the real trick lies in finding out which things in your life are within your control,
and which things in life are not within your control, right?
So, because this is something interesting, ideal,
because of my job, with a lot of students, and sometimes when I talk about this,
because again, I don't teach this stuff, but I sometimes try, you know,
in sort of a mental role, try to talk to students about this kind of stuff,
and then sometimes that turns into, oh, okay, well then I don't have to study for tests anymore,
because I will pass or I won't pass, and it doesn't matter, it's outside of my control.
That's not really what the stoics say, right?
They don't say you don't have to do anything, because you have to learn what is within,
and what is outside your control.
Once you have done something, then it's no longer in your control.
And the famous analogy that is used is that of the stoic archer.
You can be an archer, you can be trained in firing arrows from a bow, right?
And you can be a really good sort of like a sniper archer,
and be really good and really know how to hit a moving target and all that.
You can aim, you can try to take the wind into account and all that stuff,
and that is all within your control.
Your intention is completely within your control.
But once you let go of the arrow, it's out of your control, right?
Now the wind can come in, maybe some animal will run past it,
you know, something happened to the arrow, all of that is outside of your control.
So if you want to be a hardcore stoic, then what you would say is,
your intentions are within your control.
You can always choose to do something, or choose to not do something,
choose to do the right and virtuous thing,
or choose to do something that goes down the path of vice.
That's your choice, right?
So that is a sort of aspect of desire.
Stoics, for example, appetizers would take this a bit farther and say,
so kind of what you should do is realize that if you seek to pursue certain things in life
that are not within your control, then you'll probably be disappointed.
For example, everybody wants to be a millionaire, but not everyone will be a millionaire.
So if you make that a goal of life, that is not necessarily fully within your control.
You can do things to maximize your chances of a good job and education and all that,
but it's still not 100% within your control.
So maybe that is not a realistic goal, and if you cling to that, you will start to be unhappy,
because you may not achieve that goal.
If you don't achieve that goal, you'll be unhappy, right,
because you didn't get what you wanted out of life.
So if you set a different goal, something that you can attain, then it's okay.
So a stoic would say, nothing wrong with trying to be a millionaire, stoics are not a settings,
but they might say, maybe the goal you should set yourself is,
I will do everything that is within my control to become a millionaire,
but then if I don't become a millionaire, that's okay too.
I accept that that is how the universe put things in my path.
I think that's a pretty powerful way to look at life,
because suddenly a lot of things are not so oppressive or depressing.
So that is one aspect, desire.
The second aspect on how to lead a good life is that of action, action.
And something that the stoics introduced that I think is very interesting,
is the concept of the indifference, that is indifference ending in TS.
So this is a noun, indifference.
And to understand that, you kind of have to put things in context,
and I have to simplify this a little bit, but in a nutshell you could say,
on the one hand you have a school like the cynics, right?
Remember, there's crates of thebes, the cynic who taught Xeno initially.
So a lot of these things that Xeno developed are a bit cynical in nature, right?
Now the cynics say, all you need for a good and rich and fulfilling life is virtue.
Everything else is a distraction.
Wealth is a distraction.
Having money is a distraction.
Having a wife or a husband is a distraction.
Having a good job or a good position in society is a distraction.
All those things will distract from virtue.
All you need is virtue.
Do the right thing, you'll be fine.
Even if you're a beggar, and that's pretty much what they were.
They owned their clothes and knapsack and a few things,
but they didn't have much material possessions.
So cynicism never really caught on.
This was never really a popular thing, because once you tell people,
they shouldn't have any money, and typically they don't really want to do it anymore, right?
So that never really caught on, but an important thing to remember here,
cynicism is about virtue as all you need.
Then on the other hand, you have people like the parapetetics
who would say something like,
well, so this is kind of, this is Aristotelian, right?
And again, I have to simplify a bit, but Aristotle takes this exactly the other direction.
He says, no, look, virtue is indeed the most important thing,
but to be completely happy, you also need other things.
You will need good health.
If you're sick, you can't be happy.
You will need wealth.
If you're not rich, or at least have enough money, you can't be happy.
He even goes so fast to say, you have to have physical beauty.
In other words, if you're ugly, you can never be happy.
That's a pretty extreme viewpoint, but so they go the other way.
It's not just virtue, it's virtue and a whole slew of other things that you need to have,
and if you don't have those things in place, you won't be happy.
And here is what I think, the Stoics after that, which I find really appealing.
The Stoics say, virtue is the most important thing for a happy life,
but there are other things in life that you don't have to avoid, like the cynics say.
You also don't have to have, like the Aristotelian say,
but you can have them, and we call those things indifference,
and there are preferred indifference, and there are dispreferred indifference,
which kind of sounds like a contradiction in terms.
I mean, how can something be indifferent and preferred?
What that means is, it is indifferent to virtue.
If you have that thing, it won't do anything for your virtue.
For example, I think a really good example is money.
You can use money in a really good way to help other people and to help society,
and then it's virtuous, but you can also use it the most terrible way possible
to hurt other people, to harm others, then you use that money for vice.
So the Stoics say, there's nothing wrong with money,
but there's nothing really good about it either.
It is indifferent to virtue, and it depends on how you choose to use it.
Money is a preferred indifferent, because most people would rather be rich than poor.
So it's something that you would rather have than not have.
And then there are dispreferred indifference, things that you would rather not have
than do have, for example, be sick.
Nobody really wants to be sick, but if it happens to you, the Stoics would say,
yeah, well, that's the will of the universe, the cosmos, the ratio, the logos, whatever.
What do you expect? It just happened. It's okay.
Still be virtuous even when you are sick and when you are not physically beautiful, etc.
You know, Steven, if I could stop you right there.
This sounds very much like what Paul teaches in his epistles and his letters.
Pretty much that all things are acceptable, but not all things are beneficial.
As far as God's concerned, it's indifferent to how God sees you,
but they're not necessarily going to be beneficial for you, you know?
Yes.
So I can definitely see, and this is all before that's written.
So I'm wondering how much the Bible was influenced by Stoicism.
Well, that's a very interesting question.
At some point in history, it was claimed that there were actually letters exchanged between Paul and Seneca.
These turned out to be forgeries.
However, if I'm not mistaken, Paul does mention, I think it was,
I want to say it was Seneca's brother who actually was a politician at that time,
and is mentioned by Paul.
Now, don't pin me down in this specific detail.
I'm pretty sure it was Seneca's brother in the most vague manner.
I'll say I'm pretty sure it was Seneca's family.
That person is mentioned and was actually related to Seneca.
So if you look at it from that perspective, it wouldn't be too great a leap of the imagination to say,
well, but it's not unthinkable that some sort of influence occurred there, I think.
Yeah, and that's for sure an interesting parallel.
Yeah.
Well, you can just hear, as you explain what Stoicism is and how it's practiced,
it's very much a lot like my understanding of what Christianity should be,
not what it is today, but what it should be.
What I found interesting was reading the Enchiridion,
it sticks out almost all over the place, how this just makes sense of a lot of the New Testament even.
A lot of the philosophy, just things start to click,
and it's like popcorn as you're reading through this thing.
And that's why I wanted to have this conversation.
Yeah, no, I think it's very interesting.
And I'll just talk quickly about Ascent,
and then I think I can say the final thing about this, which I think kind of rounds up my story,
but I think that will be a very interesting segue if you want to talk about Christianity.
So we have now talked about how to be a good person in the field of desire.
So we have this dichotomy of control, some things are within, some things are outside of your control.
You can try to be a good person, a virtuous person through your actions,
where you have to think in terms of indifference.
A lot of things are indifferent to virtue,
and the most important thing is virtue, being a good person,
doing the right thing, the wise thing, the just thing, the courageous thing, the temperate thing,
these things you have to do.
And the stoics actually take that very far and say an action.
So it's interesting because they say there are indifference, right?
But they also say when it comes to virtue, it is either virtue or vice.
So either you are a completely virtuous person or you are sort of a viceful person,
but there isn't really anything in between. You cannot be a little virtuous.
You're either virtuous or you're not.
And that's interesting, I think.
The final thing the stoics talk about is the concept of ascent.
So that's E-M-T, not like ascent.
Ascent is a matter of thinking about your emotions.
So the stoics, a lot of people, I should say, who don't really know much about stoicism,
have the preconception that stoicism is about not having any emotions
or not feeling any emotions.
But that is not really true.
When you read the stoics, no stoic says you shouldn't have any emotions.
What stoics do say is what you need is, in Greek, apothea.
And apothea sounds a lot like apothea in English,
and that's because the word apothea was derived from apothea.
And apothea does not mean sitting around apathetically not caring about anything.
Apothea means dealing with passions.
Alpha, A, and then pathos, choropathy, the passions.
So basically, not passions, right?
A type of, I think it's, in their mind, a matter of dealing with what happens to you
in such a way that you are free from your passions.
And the stoics have a whole theory about the passions, good passions, bad passions.
And these and these and these are the bad passions.
But I think we can all kind of imagine what that means.
I have never met anyone who said, I am too happy today.
I'm just too happy. I can't handle it.
Nobody says that. Nobody has issues with being happy.
But people do have issues with being anxious.
People do have issues with being frustrated or angry or depressed.
And those types of negative passions can really influence your life.
And not in a good way, right?
As I started off, say, 15 hours ago or something,
and stoicism to a large degree is about helping people, right?
There were no therapists at that point in time.
So this whole practice of stoicism to a degree was about what can we teach people
so that they get along better in life.
In fact, the whole process of using philosophical exercises to lead a good life
to, for example, deal with your passions in Greek is called therapy, right?
Obviously, link to our word therapy.
That's what these kinds of schools of philosophy were about.
So now we ended up with a scent and dealing with your passions.
Now, what does a stoic say in that regard?
A stoic would say something like, Mark Zarelius is clear.
Apetitas is very clear.
Stoics say, I think, two things that are relevant in this context.
The first is, it's not the thing itself that bothers you, but it's your thoughts about it, right?
If you lose your job, yeah, that's unpleasant, but that's it.
It's not terrible, horrible, awful, unbearable.
It's none of these things.
It is an inconvenience.
Nobody wants this, but you can probably survive, right?
All of us here right now are still alive.
So apparently we made it through life far enough in the face of some adversity we still managed.
So stoics would say, yeah, but what really matters here is not everything that has happened to you.
It's how you think about it.
And to tie this in with things we talked about earlier, you know what you're always in control of?
Your thoughts.
You can choose what to think about something.
Even when it's difficult, and I'm not saying it's always easy,
and I'm also not saying that if tomorrow I would lose my job, I would jump around happily and say,
I'm a stoic, I'm fine, that's not really awkward.
But what you can think is, well, what does this really mean?
Well, I can start looking for a new job.
That's within my control.
Finding a job is not.
Looking for a job is.
So if I set myself the goal, I will immediately look for a new job.
How can I be disappointed?
I'm looking for that job.
I can do it when my boss fires me, if my boss fires me.
I can walk out of her office and already be on my phone looking for all the jobs.
That is within my control.
That's not a bad thing.
So again, it's not the thing that bothers you, it's how you think about it.
The second thing stoics would say, and that ties in very well with some modern psychology.
Something the stoics say is, when you experience an emotion, especially when that is a negative emotion,
you can take a step back.
In modern psychological parlance, we call it cognitive distancing.
You can take a step back and you can ask yourself rationally, is what I feel really necessary?
For example, I'm making this up in the spot, but this happens a lot, for example, in marriages or relationships, romantic relationships.
You expect something from your partner, but you don't actually communicate that desire to your partner.
So then you start to think things like, well, she never does the dishes.
I always have to clean the kitchen.
It's completely normal that she would do that once in a while, but she doesn't, and then you get angry.
This is not an autobiographical experience.
I stress, but I mean, I'm just putting it out there.
This could happen.
Sure, yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
But everybody has these kinds of thoughts.
I wish he or he could do this or this and that, but they don't.
And then you start to feel bad.
Now, the stoic would say, that would be an example of therapy.
It would be, take that step back and think, well, did I tell my partner?
Because if I did not, how could I expect him or her to know that that is what I expect?
And if there's really something to get this upset about, the stoic answer is, I would say 99% of the time, no, it's not.
It's probably not worth getting that upset about.
And thus you can sort of reason yourself out of this.
Now, that sounds, sometimes when I tell people this to say, yeah, that's really easy to say.
It just changes thoughts and then you change your behavior.
Now, my answer is, yeah, because it is.
It is that easy.
You're in charge of your thoughts, but you just don't do it because a lot of people don't, right?
They don't.
That's not a criticism.
It's just that sometimes you require a bit of training to start doing it.
You know, Stephen, on that, I've found like in my life, even when I'm sick,
and I like I have to go to work or something, but I'm sick.
Unless it's like something contagious, I want to stay home initially.
But if I tell myself, you know what, go to work, you'll probably feel better throughout the day.
It's just like the way you think about sickness can literally make you more sick because you're just like leaning into it.
Or you kind of like pretend like you're not sick.
And then your body is like, oh, well, I guess he's not sick.
It's really interesting how it can change even your reality.
I think so.
I think so.
And that was, I fully agree.
And that is something that this particular thought, right, this concept of it's not about what happens to you,
but it's about how you think about it was actually the basis for Albert Ellis, who has passed away now.
But this is a psychologist from like within living memory.
He passed away in the 2000s and who founded a psychological therapy called Rational Emotive Behavioral Therapy,
which in itself then kind of formed the basis for cognitive behavioral therapy, which is a pretty well known type of therapy.
And that therapy was based to a large degree on this concept of it's not the thing that bothers you.
It's how you think about it.
And if you can change your thoughts, then you may start to feel a lot better.
And so that's where we got, for example, this term of cognitive distancing.
That's a cognitive behavioral term.
So I agree with you that it can really make a big difference.
And you see that, for example, the people who are depressed.
Now, I want to emphasize, so I'm not saying that if you are very depressed or you need to do is change how you think.
And then like this, you'll feel better.
You'll feel simplified if you really have a severe depression.
You cannot just talk yourself out of it.
But what you see in people with depression is that it's a vicious cycle.
At some point, you wake up and you think, why would you even get out of bed?
There's nothing to live for anyway.
Things get worse and worse and worse.
You don't leave the house anymore.
That being forced to that everything is terrible, then you start to lose your friends.
That's really bad.
And of course, you may require medication to help you get over that.
Of course, I'm not saying you're not.
But if you look at the type of therapy that people like that would get, people with depression would get.
For example, cognitive behavioral therapy to a very large degree depends on changing the patterns of thought.
And that, again, that was based on historic thought.
Now, Stephen, are you aware that Jesus in the Bible says, as a man believed, so he will be?
Yeah, that's a very good thing to say.
And Paul writes, you know, it talks about taking every thought captive.
And so that's just a fall right back in line.
That's the whole battle.
That's like 2 Corinthians chapter 10 or something.
But I did actually a short study on how the last Armageddon is fulfilled.
We have all these futurists thinking that there's going to be a war in this valley and whatever Jerusalem or something.
But I began to realize that the war in the New Testament is talking spiritually about taking every thought captive.
And you're bringing down the strongholds of lies.
It's the father of lies versus Jesus who says, I am the truth.
And then you overcome that by understanding.
And then you're fully established in the New Covenant and it says in New Covenant,
they shall no longer teach their neighbor or they shall know me.
It's all there.
Yeah, man. I mean, it's beautiful.
To me, the gospel is that.
I mean, this is the gospel. Stoicism.
I'm writing notes. This letter notes.
No, and it's like, I think I just want to raise that awareness in our viewers about what Stoicism is so that they can see some of this stuff to you.
That's like what I'm excited about, even for me personally.
Yeah, I think it makes a lot of sense.
I don't know if this makes a lot of noise.
I'm just leaving through one thing here because I think the final thing to kind of discuss here,
and I think that will be a good segue into what you're talking about,
is so how do you put all this into practice?
And what should you strive to be if you say, I am a Stoic or I want to try to be Stoic?
So we have now talked about a lot of things, right?
So there is Stoicism, the logic and the physics and the ethics.
We've talked a while ago about Stoic ethics and desire, action, scent, how to deal with your emotions.
Because you can choose, Stoics say, you can choose to give your emotions a scent, right?
That was the final point I was trying to make.
You can choose by rationally thinking about things.
Is this something worth getting angry over, right?
Which you could summarize as pick your battles.
Is this really worth my time?
And the Stoics would say, sometimes, yes, sometimes you have an absolute right to do get angry.
Not a lot of the time, but there may be issues where you do have the right to feel that passion.
But how do you do it?
So if you want to lead this life of Evdemonia,
I think I have tried to go from the theory to making it more and more concrete, right?
So you have Evdemonia, a racial fulfilled life, and you have virtue.
And virtue we've broken up.
There is wisdom, courage, justice, and there is temperance.
And then we have kind of broken that down even further and said, well, you have control over your desires.
Don't want things that are not within your control.
Don't try to avoid things that are not within your control because you will not come out on top in life if you do that.
You have your actions.
So you have virtue, which you should always strive for.
You have vice, which you should avoid at all costs.
And then you have the indifference, which take up that special space right in between,
indifferent to virtue.
And then finally, you have your ascent, ascent to emotions.
Okay.
Now, how do you actually put that into practice?
Well, a very important concept to the Stoics is that of what is called in Greek the Sophos a wise man,
which for the record is not necessarily a Stoic concept.
There are many schools of Hellenistic thought that say you should try to imitate the wise man.
And again, because I think it's nice to use gender neutral language.
And you could call that the sage, someone who is truly wise.
Well, then who is truly wise?
Well, the Stoics have a slightly disturbing answer to that question.
They say, well, Socrates was pretty wise.
He's probably a good sage.
Epictetus actually mentions with much love and adoration, which is interesting.
Diogenes, the cynic.
It was Diogenes of the famous anecdote.
Diogenes got visited by Alexander the Great.
And Diogenes being a cynic lived in this sort of, I think it was a wine jug or something.
The cynics were all a bit peculiar in that regard, but they were kind of ascetic.
And Alexander talks to him and he says, well, I am Alexander the Great.
You're a pretty good philosopher who doesn't really want anything in his life.
So tell me, is there anything, anything at all that I can give you?
And Diogenes says, yeah, you can step out of the sun for a second.
So I think that's a good way to look at things, right?
The cynics were very much about that.
So Epictetus mentions Diogenes the cynic as a model to emulate.
In fact, he tells his students, most of you are not even Stoics,
not alone that you could be a cynic.
So in other words, to be a cynic, you've got to be really hardcore.
Why do you have money?
You kind of bring a possession.
So it's pretty tough stuff.
So you are a saint.
Now, what is the other, the second and final part of this,
the surprising answer that Stoics would give if you would ask them, who's a sage?
They would say, well, not you, and also not me.
Because all of us, unfortunately, were not sages.
In fact, they go further.
They say we're fools or slaves.
None of us actually are truly wise, enlightened people.
Now, that is very humble.
And that was, again, that was a reason for Zeno to say,
we shouldn't call this school Zenonians because I'm not a sage.
So it would be kind of weird to call it that.
Let's call it Stoics.
It's fine.
I don't know if he literally, if he himself said that, but that was the reason.
So the Stoics all said this.
Epictetus, too, in one of the discourses, is asked by his students,
Master, are you a sage?
And his answer is pretty much like, well, better thing twice about that
because I'm sure as hell not a sage.
I'm trying, but I'm not there.
So again, very humble.
And you really have to, I think, appreciate that moment.
Because Epicurus, the founder of the Epicurean school, said,
I am a sage.
I am enlightened.
I am wise.
I will teach you how it's done, which is why that is called Epicureanism,
named after him, and not Gardenism, even though he taught in the Garden.
So his students even had to remember his birthday
and they had to memorize some of his sayings.
So he was, it sounds negative, but a bit fuller of himself
than I think Stoics were.
Now, but now the real question is, okay, that's so great,
but does that mean that, pardon me, but that we're all screwed?
Because I mean, if none of us can be sages, then what?
Then what's the point?
Why would you, what is the point of wisdom, and courage,
and all that other stuff, and detachment, and ascent,
and all that dichotomy of control, if you're not a sage anyway?
Well, Stoics have in my mind a very comforting answer to that
because they say it doesn't really matter as long as you try.
If you genuinely try, genuinely try to be a good person, to be a sage,
then you make progress.
The Greek word for that is prokopsis,
and that's a very important term in Stoicism,
because a Stoic says, listen buddy, forget about it, you'll never be a sage,
but you can try.
And if you sincerely strive, that's good enough,
because you will start to make progress.
And progress, I won't say it's all it takes, but it is good enough.
Okay, so then, and that's, this I think is the final thing I can say about this
because I want to make sure that we really understand what a sage is, right?
In the mind of a Stoic, a sage is a person who I would say has two very important properties.
One is what we already talked about, apothea,
someone who is not disturbed by the passions.
So a sage could be startled by something,
walking down the street, suddenly hears a loud bang,
the sage will kind of startle as well,
but a sage will then say about what's really going on.
It's probably nothing.
There's no reason for me to be worried about this.
The second important property that a sage has is ataraxia.
An ataraxia is something like tranquility,
imperturbiveness, someone who is not really bothered by what's going on in life.
A sage accepts things the way they are, and it's fine with that.
So is not led astray by passions, is not therefore susceptible to anxiety or depression,
or suffering, because he reasons or she reasons perfectly,
completely rationally, sort of following the universe,
if the universe or the logos, the ratio of God will ever put this on your path,
go along with it, you don't see those things and are not willing to control all of those things.
And it's important to realize a sage does experience emotions,
to dispel that stereotype.
Even a Stoic sage would not be free of emotions
because that would be inhumane, because then you're in a machine, right?
A sage will experience emotions, but I guess this is a matter of,
I have to paraphrase, but I'm sure you can correct me,
there's a time to laugh, there's a time to cry, there's a time to dance, there's a time to mourn.
It's pretty much that, right? It's all there.
Temperance.
Yes, exactly, exactly.
You just need to know when to do what thing.
And a sage or Stoic would say, well, a sage will know this, right?
All a Stoic sage will really do is sort of eradicate irrational judgments about emotions
and therefore not really experience negative passions,
big sort of emotions or steroids of frustration or anger or these kinds of things.
I think that is important and of course, I don't know if it's of course,
but you could, I suppose, make the point or try to defend the argument.
And I'm not saying that I have all the arguments,
but you could say, well, if you're looking at sages,
if you are looking at people to emulate,
if you are looking at someone who sounds pretty enlightened,
well then if you look in the context of the New Testament
and a character like Jesus comes to mind, right?
Says, and I don't mean this disrespectfully, but like says all the white things,
says wise things, white is definitely temperate,
is to see justice does all these things.
So I wouldn't find it particularly strange to see a link with Stoicism
and a person like that, for example.
Yeah, I remember you were saying the Stoics say that it's at least you tried or whatever, right?
You don't have to be perfect like I say, but you got to at least try it, right?
Yes.
And you hear a lot of Christians say that nowadays,
but in the Bible I think it says like the pure in heart will see God.
And I remember going through this School of Kingdom Living
and this pastor was basically being religious means have a pure motive.
So to be pure in heart is to have a pure motive.
And that's exactly what you're saying the Stoicism is the pure in heart.
And of course there's a lot of little details that you pick up as you read these books,
which just makes more and more sense to me as I go.
So is there anything else you want to say before I just jump into the PowerPoint?
No, no, no, I think I think that's a very interesting point.
And I think that ties in very well with the idea of you may not be in control of the things that happen to you in life,
but you are in control of your responses to it and you are also in control of your intentions.
And that is a very important point that the Stoics make.
They say, look, a very quick example of the thesis gives the illustration of,
he says, imagine you have a loot player or liar.
I think it's a liar player, actually.
Someone who plays the liar and accompanies himself singing, right?
He says, he gives that example.
I always thought that was a very good illustration at this point.
He says, this person will sit by himself in his living room, so to speak,
play his lyre and sing and will do beautifully, right?
But then he walks onto the stage and all of a sudden he gets nervous.
He doesn't play so well anymore.
Why is that?
And Appetite says, because his intention is wrong.
In his living room, his intention was just to play and sing.
But once he walks onto the stage, his intention is to sing and play well and to go into applause.
Ah, but that is not within his control, is it?
You can do what you can to play as well as you can to practice.
You practice your playing and your singing, or whether people like you.
Yeah, that's not in your control.
So there again, it is your desire, right?
You know, as a performer, that's huge.
But again, realize how important that is.
It's just about your intention.
You're not in control of the applause, but you are always in control of your intention.
What it is you choose to do, believe, say, act upon, etc.
Hey, before you move on to the PowerPoint, Kevin, can I say a couple of things I took note of?
Sure.
First off, what came first?
Was it stoicism or Buddhism?
Yeah, that's a really good question.
I am not 100% sure.
They sound very much alike in that discipline.
Yeah, there are many parallels, and I don't think it is unreasonable to think, for example,
that stoicism kind of made its way out there, because I mean, people traveled around,
and that it has maybe influenced Buddhism.
I am not too sure about Buddhism influencing stoicism,
but I would be very hesitant to really give a clear answer on that.
It is for sure an obvious parallel.
Yeah, I used to think that.
Go ahead, Kevin.
Well, I'll just say my guess from the books I've read,
but I think it was in the pagan Christ to talk about how there is stuff from Buddhism.
I think it was in the 5th century BC that was put into the Bible.
But then again, Buddhism comes from the Vedic texts,
which go back to India from like 3000, 2000, or is it a thousand feet?
So all roads seem to kind of go back to India in some cases.
Yeah, I did used to think that, you know,
now I am not even too sure, Jesus, of the Bible was a literal actual person.
But when I did, I used to believe that from the ages of 13 to 30,
when he was not written about at all,
that perhaps he traveled and somehow got some Buddhist teaching,
and that's why when he's preaching, it sounds a lot like what Buddhism also says.
But now I'm kind of thinking it could be stoicism too, though.
I mean, in fact, it sounds more like stoicism than Buddhism to me,
because, you know, Buddhism is, well, it's not a religion,
but in its practice, it seems more religious.
Yeah, and I think one thing that is interesting is that I cannot claim to be an expert on Buddhism.
But what I read about that is that I think one thing that is important,
and again, I could be utterly wrong, so do feel free to correct me or whatever,
but I always get that feeling that Buddhism, at least certain,
because, of course, there may be forms and branches of Buddhism,
but certainly if you look at the Japanese types of Buddhism, for example,
it seems to me to be very focused on kind of, it's not about you,
you know, like you kind of extirpate yourself a little bit,
like you're just, you are not important,
and stoics would not necessarily say that,
so I think that's an important difference.
Exactly, exactly.
You know what, if you, like Seneca was a billionaire,
but no stoic would say, well, that's wrong, they would just say,
yeah, money isn't a difference.
Yeah, and see, Buddhism says that the only way to not suffer,
the only way to get rid of suffering is to not have desires,
and I don't think that's what stoicism is necessarily saying.
It's saying you can have desires just with temperance, right?
You could have desires as long as you do not desire things
that are outside of your control, because then you would...
Desire, desire, virtue, not vice, and...
Yes, yes.
And also, okay, so the last thing, the last thing,
is a little bit of, just the way I think,
so when you first explained what is it, stoic physics,
something kind of went off in my mind,
but here was the thought,
how can you not go along with what the universe is doing
if you believe, according to stoic physics,
that everything is predetermined and repeats?
Yes, that is a fantastic question,
because this ties into...
Stoics, on the one hand, say, everything is determined.
Determine is philosophy, because they say the universe
is a living, rational creature,
that basically determines everything.
So whether that universe, whether you equate that with fate,
or a logos, or God, or whatever, it doesn't really matter.
What matters is the universe is this sort of rational creature.
So that means everything is determined,
everything is determined by that rational power.
Okay, if everything is determined,
then what's all this stuff about things within your control
and outside your control about them?
Because if everything is...
Yeah.
How can you have any control, right?
And there's a famous quote, actually, by Diogenes Laertius,
the guy who wrote about all these philosophers,
who mentions...
I can sort of reproduce it,
but his quote is, I think, too good not to share,
because I always found it comical.
So Diogenes writes about Zeno.
So this is the Zeno, the founder of the school,
supposedly the Stoic, who is maybe not a sage,
but kind of knows how to keep his cool.
And Diogenes writes,
we are told that once he, so Zeno,
was beating a slave who had been accused of stealing,
and the slave, this is my words,
but I mean, the slave was not an idiot.
He knew a little bit about his master's teachings.
So he says,
but I was fated to steal,
to which, you know, replied,
yes, and to be beaten, right?
So that's kind of what I said.
Yeah, yeah, well, that's tough luck there.
So how does it work?
Well, if you want to get really technical about that,
Stoicism is a type of compatibilism,
which is actually very difficult in my mind,
to me, as a non-philosopher.
I find that difficult to understand,
but it kind of boils down to,
yes, everything may be determined,
but that doesn't mean you don't have a responsibility.
So if you are, let's say that this ancient Greece, right?
So let's say that you are some brigand,
and you decide to slit someone's throat,
and you take his money, right?
Stoics would say,
look, the universe may have fated you to do that,
but you still pulled that knife across someone's throat,
so you're still responsible.
Whether you were determined to do it or not,
it doesn't really matter.
You should still be held accountable.
That is how I understand compatibilism.
So it's interesting, but it is complicated.
This is something that many of the opponents of stoicism at the time
also said, like, look, this doesn't really make sense, guys.
You can't be in control, I never had everything determined.
It's kind of got to be one or the other.
So that is a complicated question,
and I cannot say that I have the answer
beyond things may be determined,
but that doesn't mean you're sort of freed of all your responsibility.
I just mean, all I mean is there's no way to know if that's even true,
or not.
So the best thing to do is to go by the virtues anyway.
Yeah.
That is a perfect, that is a very, I would say,
a perfect stoic answer, because that's what a stoic would say.
Like, listen, if you always do the right thing, then you're safe, right?
It has to be the right thing.
All right.
Well, I'll jump into my PowerPoint.
I just, I want to show some of my two-point parallels I saw,
just for the visual learners who can,
who like the picture a bit better.
Stoicism and the Bible.
So this is just something I put together quickly today and last night,
and it's only nine slides, so it's not going to carry on too long, I hope.
But yeah, just stuff I saw in comparison,
when it just popped into my head when I saw this.
So comparing socials into the Bible,
page 50 of, well, this is the answer in Curidian.
He says, contentment is a great delight,
and the road is short.
And then in the Bible, it says, godliness with contentment is a great gain.
1 Timothy 6-6.
And then he says, truth is immortal.
I actually want to read that because he says something else there.
So this was a cool one.
He says, truth is a thing immortal and perpetual,
and it gives to us a beauty which fades not away in time,
nor does it take away the freedom of speech which proceeds from justice.
But it gives to us the knowledge of what is just and lawful,
separating from the unjust and refuting them.
So it's actually separating or judging or leading
what is just and unjust or good and evil, you could say.
So in a sense, this is like Libra on the scales of justice.
And this is truth's job is to discern good and evil.
And we find that this is when the Feast of Trumpets happened, et cetera, et cetera,
in the Jewish religion, which would correspond to all those things.
And then you have Jesus in the Bible.
He says, I am the way, the truth and the life.
And of course, he's called the Word of God or the Logos.
So of course, you're using Logos or ratio, which is rationality.
And in this other book I read, it says that the word Logos
actually should better work for this ratio,
which is both mathematical and means what we have for rationality and logic.
And so Jesus, I think he's almost best understood as a metaphor for truth
if you're going to compare it to stoicism.
Again, truth dies and it rises.
It's an old paradigm.
We thought what we believe something was true.
It'll go in and we go through time learning something new.
And that old truth dies.
And a few days later, it's new.
It's made new.
All things are made new.
And it's like the cycle's repeating again.
And then, of course, we have stoicism is, of course, practice for everyday living.
And then we have all scriptures useful for godliness or at least in Timothy.
He's basically saying that you should only listen to the people who are talking about godliness, which is.
And then he even uses the word divine nature in Second Peter.
I think it's chapter three or maybe it's chapter one.
And of course, that's the word Cicero uses is the divine nature of the gods.
When he's writing about stoicism, I think.
And in page 40, we have basically this theme of being unmoved by the multitudes of people, right?
In the Bible, you have Jesus never being swayed by the multitudes.
He's hiding from the crowds.
And even in Romans, he says,
Do you not conform to the pattern in this world, which is actually about a translation is this age, because it's through time.
But it can move on.
So spiritual slavery is an idea in both of them.
And then we have.
Sorry, we have death daily in your mind.
So you should face that daily.
Keep it daily on your mind.
Paul faces that daily.
And Marcus Aurelius read three times stocks with the God in you and in three pages.
And in the Bible, of course, the other king got within you and Christ in you.
Nothing without purpose.
And Marcus Aurelius is 74.
Paul is intensely purposeful in Philippians 314.
Basically of the worship of reason and Mark's release.
He actually says that.
And Paul is constantly using reason.
Of course, Jesus is the logos.
And then I just wanted to point out something we should already be reminded of is how did Jesus actually say to discern the truth.
And this is, of course, by their fruit.
And of course, the fruit is a metaphor for the ethics.
And if understood, the truth is being taught by Christ.
He's the gospel.
Truth is immortal and perpetual.
This is what I read before.
And then there was this interesting Facebook post I saw this week, which was kind of a synchronicity with what I was planning.
But this was actually from a book of one of the authors we've had on our podcast.
I think it talks about the days of the Church Father origin and the pagan philosopher Celcius criticized Christians for passing off the Jesus story as a new revelation.
When it was actually an inferior imitation of pagan myths.
He asks, are these distinctive happenings unique to the Christians?
If so, how are they unique?
And of course, they're all like the myths.
And what are the Christians give?
Well, the truth is there's nothing unusual about the Christians believe except that they believe it to the exclusion of more comprehensive truths about God.
Celcius is right to be critical of Christian claims that Jesus' teachings are original and distinctive.
Jesus teaches, lay up your treasure in heaven where no thief can get it.
Sextus likewise exhorts possess those things which no one can take away from you.
Jesus is the king of the world because he is wise not because he's powerful.
The popular Stoic maxim was the only true king is the wise man.
Jesus teaches, keep awake for you do not know when the master of the house will come.
Epictetus writes, go not far from the ship at any time, lest the master should call and now not be ready.
Jesus teaches, I assure you anyone who doesn't see the kingdom of God is like a little child.
We'll never get into it.
Heraclitus writes, the kingdom belongs to the child.
Jesus teaches, why do you call me good?
No one is good only God.
Four centuries previously Plato had defined God as the good, the quality by which by definition only God could fully manifest.
In a similar fashion to Jesus, Pythagoras had refused to be called wise, explaining no one was wise except God.
Pythagoras preferred to call himself lover of wisdom or philosopher.
The term he was the first person to use.
So this is from Timothy Freak, the Jesus Mysteries was the original Jesus, the pagan God.
So that's basically the end of my book, I got one more slide here.
And this was the idea I think you gave first time I heard your presentation at Phil's.
But this is the order I would put the three Stoic and I would actually start with the roots which would be the physics because that seems to correspond to Judaism.
If you read Romans 11 18 says do not be arrogant towards the branches.
If you are a member is not you who support the root but the root that supports you.
So you have this kind of picture of the Jews are the root or they're the first born, right?
And the first born of the Old Testament is supporting the New Testament.
And of course the Logos or the logic would be second because that's Christ the mediator between the two covenants.
And then the last would be the ethics or the fruit and the spirit which is the ethics.
So and that's basically the tree of knowledge and good and evil or the tree of life in a sense.
And that's the end of the slide.
I just have a quote here from Cicero talking about reason.
Reason is superior to that which does not.
Nothing is superior to the world.
The world therefore reasons by the same rule the world may be proved to be wise, happy and eternal.
For the possession of all these qualities is superior to the wants of me.
So I thought that was interesting comparing it to Cicero.
And I can stop that share.
Yeah, that is interesting.
Yeah, so what are your any thoughts what you saw there?
Well, I think no, I definitely think it's a very interesting to look at these kinds of parallels.
I do think that there is quite a lot in Christian teachings that a stoic would be able to accept.
To give one concrete example, I mean, I think there is some passages and epithesis, these causes for example,
which are very much along the lines of turn the other cheek.
Like, well, look, if something happens to you, what do you expect it's happening to you?
You can get upset about it or you can just accept it, which sounds a bit like turning the other cheek to me.
So I think there are some interesting parallels and another thing that I think is interesting is that
that's kind of why I was hopping on about this whole issue of you can call it what you like in stoic terms,
whether you use the universe or divine providence or nature or the cosmos or the logos or God,
which I'm pretty sure all terms that stoics use one point or another.
So in a way, it doesn't even really matter whether you have a religious denomination or whether you're not.
I still think that at least a number of the principles, if not all the principles that stoicism is founded on,
you can still kind of get behind.
And the other way around too, like a stoic, I don't think a stoic would object to anyone.
I mean, this, of course, the stoic doesn't exist anymore.
But if it would still exist, I don't think the stoics would object if you would come in as a Christian
or as someone in the Jewish religion or as a Buddhist or whatever, because they don't care.
It doesn't really matter what you believe in.
It matters in how you apply those principles to make your life better with, of course,
the ultimate goal of if everyone would do that, the world might be better.
Yeah, exactly.
And I find it interesting comparing it to Christianity because Christianity is this religion that's about bettering yourself in some moral sense.
But even the history, I did some research on like Vespasian.
Some of the emperors were actually against stoicism and some were for stoicism.
And Vespasian was actually against stoicism, which is interesting,
because Vespasian and Titus seemed to actually fulfill the second coming of Christ from like Matthew 24.
So they probably would have wanted people to take these myths more literally,
whereas the stoics are actually giving this explanation of it.
So it's almost like some emperors are trying to hide some of this stuff for the sake of the mythological view,
or maybe they believe the mythological view as literal.
Yeah, and I think it's also, you could also say, if you are a Roman emperor,
and Marcus Aurelius was considered to be, I think the last or one of the last of what they called the five good Roman emperors,
the ones who were not absolutely mad at snake, and which many of them were, Nero was insane, and all of them were.
So if you are not one of the quote unquote good emperors,
I can imagine that the idea of having teachers in your country, or even worse in your city,
who are teaching people how to think for themselves, how to think about life,
that that might make you a little nervous, because once people start to question your divine status,
or your absolute power, things can become a little nasty for you, right?
So I can see how an emperor would say, you know what, all philosophers get out,
which is indeed what happened to our teachers, which is why he had to leave Rome,
and also to Rufus, by the way, who also got banished once, so did Seneca.
So I mean, they all, so I don't know, that means that if you are a stoic,
at some point you're on the risk of getting banished, but in any case, it is a thing, right?
It is a thing, and it's something to be aware of, yeah.
So last question, I was just wondering, what's your favorite book on stoicism?
Yeah, that's a really good question.
So I think there are two ways to answer that, because on one hand, of course, you have a primary stoic source, right?
And most of that would be, as I said, Seneca, or Marcus Aurelius, or Epictetus, or Rufus,
but Rufus, Mussonius Rufus' book, the translation of his lectures and the fragments we have,
is like this thing, that's a tiny little book, because there aren't that many things left.
So if the answer is, you have to pick one.
What's your favorite stoic author?
I really like Epictetus.
I read all the discourses, but what I really like is the Anchorideon, because it is so short.
And the nice thing is, some of these, as a typical professor does, Epictetus sometimes seems to kind of lose himself on what he's talking about.
I mean, I'm not saying that he's not coherent, but it's a very long story, and I think you could have said that in 10 lines or something.
But that's his nature, and that's also because at that time, he didn't necessarily have an electric plan,
but someone came in and said, hey, Epictetus, what do I do about my brother who doesn't like me?
And then he would have to respond to that, because that's what he was like.
So I think the Anchorideon is nice, because it is so brief and concise.
And if people want to get started on stoicism, I think that is an excellent place to start, because it's very legible.
Unlike Marcus Aurelius, who sometimes says really weird, fake things.
Epictetus is kind of down to earth, is very clear, especially the Anchorideon.
So that would be my choice for a primary source.
When it comes to books about stoicism, for example, from, let's say, a more modern author, there is a plethora to choose from.
But one book that I found very interesting and very legible and very nice is called How to be a Stoic.
By Massimo Piliucci, who has no less than three PhDs, including one of philosophy.
But he has a very pleasant legible writing style.
And what is nice about him is that he talks about pretty much everything we talked about today, the action, the send, the control, all that stuff.
But he kind of presents it a little bit as a dialogue with Epictetus.
So it's not, the whole book is not a dialogue, but he talks a bit about what Epictetus wrote.
And then he talks about his own personal thoughts about that.
And then he talks about, now, if I would agree, especially disagree with this, what would Epictetus tell me in return?
How would he refute what I'm trying to say?
So it's a very interesting book.
And if you kind of want to get started in stoicism, I think that is a very interesting book to read.
Because it's so legible and because it's quite practical about what to do.
So that's a very good one too.
Okay, great.
Yeah.
Well, thanks for coming on our show.
Thanks for having me.
Yeah.
How can people contact you?
The easiest way is probably to send me an email.
I happen to have four first names, which is not very stoned because you'd be probably a bit more minimalist.
But in any case, my four initials are S for Stephen, B for Brendan, R for Roland, E for Eric.
If you put those together, you get SBRE.
If you add my last name to that, Brown, just Brown without me at the end, just like the color, at gmail.com is my email address.
I also have SBREBrown.com as my website, which also has a contact form, so you can use that to contact me.
Okay, great.
Well, yeah, like I said, thanks for having us.
Yeah, thanks.
Thanks for having me.
It was fun.
And yeah, hopefully we can maybe do it again or we'll see what happens in the future.
For sure.
All right.
Bye, guys.
Bye.
