I'm a firm believer that to understand the Apostle Paul, to understand the world the Bible speaks of,
you really need to know the social, political, and cultural context of the people who are writing then.
Today I have Dr. Christopher Stanley taking an extremely deep dive into the historical context.
Do you really want to know what was going on? Do you really want to understand the biblical context,
the letters of Paul, and the New Testament? He also has written a few books and one of them
is an academic book that is giving a few copies away for those who join MythVision's Patreon.
I'm going to send him a list of people, we'll probably pull a name out of the hat,
and be able to send a few free copies to those who join. He also has an option and you've got to
stay to the end to be able to find out how to also get a copy of some of his trilogy. So do you want
to understand the biblical world? Do you want to understand ancient Rome, ancient Greco-Roman world?
Stay tuned to listen to a scholar explain. We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert, and today I have a special guest who's been on before,
Dr. Christopher D. Stanley. Welcome to MythVision. Thanks, it's good to be back with you.
Thank you, Dr. Stanley. You've been on, I don't know, six, seven, eight times already and...
Something like that, yeah. And your book that you just published,
which I highly recommend everybody check out in the description. You have an opportunity to win,
so stay tuned. Paul Anasclepius, the Greco-Roman quest for healing and the Apostolic mission.
So if I may, I think it's worth introducing you and having you give a little background of yourself
and tell us a little bit about this work. Sure. Well, I have recently retired from Saint Bonavent,
University in Western New York, where I've taught for the last 20-something years other places prior
to this. My expertise is in the social world of early Christianity, the religious, cultural,
historical, geographic, economic, political context of the early Christian movement,
and the way in which that helps us to better understand the kinds of events and stories
and letters that make up our New Testament, specifically Paul. So this particular book
focuses, I guess, written or edited seven academic books, plus the two novels we'll be talking about
today and dozens and dozens of articles and presenting papers around the world and all that.
This particular book follows the themes that we discussed in our first, I think, three sessions
together about sickness and healing in the ancient world, various of what we would call medicinal
and magical and miraculous or religious modes of healing as a background for understanding
or speculating about how Paul might have thought and taught his audiences about these things,
because he really says very little to nothing about the subject. So a lot of kind of deep
social and historical investigation in the book. I'd be happy to give a couple of copies away to
your viewers. This book costs over a hundred bucks a copy. Actually, Amazon's got it down to 75 now,
but not an easy book. Not one one just goes and picks up easily on the on the sale rack.
So I think you want to say a word about how people might be able to get free copies.
Yeah, join the Patreon. I'll be taking notes about who joins the Patreon over the next week or so.
And then me and Dr. Stanley will have a drawing and we'll pick one of the lucky winners.
We'll contact you. Two lucky winners. I'll give you two copies.
Awesome. And we'll email you since when you join the Patreon, it'll give you your email.
And then you'll get a couple. Well, two people will be able to get a copy of the book. So join
the Patreon. It helps us out. In fact, if I may, just just to give a visual, it's you're not just
joining for nothing. I mean, like I literally worked my tail off. This is with John Dominic
Crossen. I just launched this last night. I'm about to launch one on the Moses scroll, the
Shapiro document and stuff like that. I did another one with John. There's plenty with Paula
Fredrickson that I've done. There's a lot of stuff. So go check it out. A lot of great people there.
Absolutely. A lot of great academics. So check us out. Join the Patreon and then we will do the
drawing and we'll make sure that you're notified and get a copy of the work. And I want to emphasize
that you are a Pauline expert. Okay. I love that about you because you know, me and my buddy Steven,
we've joined you. We like to get really down into the weeds. And so do you. So that takes me,
that that forces me. I feel coerced here, Dr. Stanley, to have to bring up your website.
And it's necessary a slave story.com for the novel. Yes. So here is a trilogy of the novels.
Are you giving away any auto people? If people wait to watch this video to the end, we'll talk about
ways they can get free copies of the Kindle version and the audible version. I've got a
wonderful reader who did an excellent audible recording of both books that are out. The third
book I'm working on right now might be a year or so before it's ready. But the first two books form
essentially a complete story without necessarily the third, but you really have to read the first
two to get the whole thing. And then the third kind of extends it and takes my characters to a
different place in the years leading up to the Jewish revolt against the Romans in Palestine.
So but there are narrative, there are plot descriptions on the website to get a sense of
what's going on in them and how the third volume will then complete that story.
Stay tuned so you can figure out how to get a copy of that as well,
other than having to technically purchase the copy because there are ways to.
That's the best way to do it.
That is the easiest way to afford to just go for it. Or you could join the Patreon, of course,
we'll figure out something or however Dr. Stanley wants to work out the novel stuff. So
in this case, Dr. Stanley, you're an expert in serious, literal, what the facts are, what the
textual criticism points out, what's Paul saying in the Greek. But in order to really do that,
as we've seen in our previous episodes, so go check out the other videos we've done with Dr. Stanley,
you can't, you can't really, and this is me as a layman saying this, you can't really get Paul
if you don't know the social, political circumstances in the homes, on the streets,
in the centers, in the cities, in the, and even in the the boom docs, if I can call it,
like you got to know all of the different areas. And so that leads me to ask you as an
expert on facts and wanting to get down to the nitty gritty history, what would motivate you to
want to write a historical fictional novel? Okay, so I never imagined to write any fiction. I, if all
my books and articles are all more technical historical than literary kind of scholarship with
a strong dose of social scientific study and various other kind of things. But back about
a dozen years or so ago, my wife, who loves historical fiction, just totally out of the
blue randomly said to me, you know, all this historical stuff you do, you ought to write a
historical novel. And I said, I don't know anything about writing fiction, you know, I don't know,
writing characters and stories and dialogue, never even imagined to do this kind of thing.
And then like the next day, this wonderful opening scene just came alive in my mind,
it's actually what became the prologue of the first, of the first book. And so I told my wife
about it. And she said, Hey, that sounds cool. And she's not, she's not necessarily a booster. I
mean, she's like my worst critic sometimes. So the fact that she thought something like this is
not a good as it was cool. And so over the next couple of weeks, really, this plot line just
developed itself. And I kept telling her, and this happens, and that happens. And I wasn't really
thinking about it, wasn't really working on it. But it was like, I was, it's almost like I was
transported into the past, and recording the stories about what people were actually doing.
And again, my wife was encouraging. And then, but still, there was the question of, okay,
but you got an idea, can you actually write it? So I was over in the UK doing, I was on a
Fulbright scholarship fellowship, and was going speaking at some of the universities there.
And I was out hiking for a day when I had a little bit of free time. And without me even
thinking about it, this first this opening, what became the prologue, was just literally word for
word in my mind, kind of coming together. And I literally walked along and memorized this,
went back to my hotel room, typed it up, sent it to my wife, several pages, and she said,
What do you know, you can write historical fiction. And so it took several years to actually
write these books. The first one came out, they both actually came out 2021,
because I had my academic writing and my teaching and that kind of thing to do.
But it's just such fun reading, such fun writing. And I think the, you know, the reviews that you
can read on the Amazon page show that the books were very well received, but particularly by
other scholars. And I've had a number of people who lead tours of Turkey, because the first two
books take place in Asia Minor, modern day Turkey, had several people who actually lead tours, tell
me, these books just make this world come alive. And they're recommending them to their tour
participants. Because it's like, it's one thing to see, you know, these archaeological sites,
and they say, Okay, this is there. It's another to actually have a story that gets into the nitty
gritty of daily life from, from, you know, how slaves were dealt with in a household to help
people went to the bathroom to sicknesses and healthcare and, and host to other kinds of things,
social networks, etc. And it's like bringing all these years of study that I've done regarding the
social world of the Roman Empire to bear on a particular couple of characters and
places in a way that immerses readers deeply into that world.
I find it interesting that you brought this up. So one question I'd like to ask you as I'm
diving into this, I just came back from Israel, Palestine, and I was on a tour for 12 days,
and we were tracking Jesus, if that makes sense, we went everywhere from Maritime, Caesarea,
Philippi, Caesarea, Jerusalem, we went all the way down to the Dead Sea, saw some of the caves,
Qumran, the whole nine. And it sounds to me, you've looked at some of the other historical
fiction that is kind of trying to take this approach of history, and you were kind of cringing
at some of the lack of factual data about on the ground events of what actually was happening.
Exactly. I mean, it's not just the ancient world. I mean, you all often, most of the stuff I read
said in the Roman world makes me cringe. There are some good ones. There are some books that are
very well done. But just in general, you know, I think there's a tendency by a lot of modern
lines of distortion to essentially take 21st century people and put them in the past. And they
think, speak, and act like people would today. And, you know, my goal was just to do the opposite.
As the British novelist LP Hartley famously said, the past is a different, is a foreign country.
They do things differently there. And I really wanted to immerse my readers in the
differentness of the past. And not just that, okay, they do things differently, but sometimes
they do things that, you know, would be offensive to us. And, you know, their social values are
different and value for each, for example, the valuation of human life is different. Views of
women and slaves and a lot of other people by the elites are things that, you know, would be
almost the opposite of what we would think today is right. And so, you know, what I've tried to do
is take people into that world with all its messiness and sometimes all of its ugliness. In
fact, maybe it would be good for me just to give a quick overview of what the books are about.
It will help to illustrate that. Basically, the story centers on two main characters, a master
and a slave. The master is a kind of low-level elite guy in the Roman colony of Antioch near
Presidia, which is kind of in central Turkey. And he is moving up in the world. But through
things I won't get into, ends up having a downfall. He's got a sickness. And that sickness becomes
more and more the focus of the story. In fact, it's worth noting here that that was not my original
intent, that the sickness and healing would be so central. But that came from actually going and
doing some really nitty-gritty on-the-ground research on the sites in Turkey that I wanted to
work on and realizing there were these healing centers everywhere and got me into thinking about,
well, what were people, what was driving people to these places, which eventually led to this
Paul and Asclepius book, but it also led to these novels. And so he ends up, the two of them together
end up making the journey across Asia Minor to Ephesus and eventually to Pergamon to the sanctuary
of the Greek healing god Asclepius there. And he's had a dream where he believes that Asclepius
has assured him that he's going to be healed there. Lots of other things happen along the way.
And there's lots of stops and kind of making these various sites along the way vivid in what
it was like to travel in the ancient world and where people stayed and how they ate and a host
of other kind of things like that. But then the kind of nitty-gritty of how a healing sanctuary
worked in the ancient world and the experiences he has there were eventually he's disappointed.
And then the second book traces the return home and his despondency that leads to some rather
bad outcomes. But there's also another, and eventually ends up back home. But there's another
whole secondary line where the main character, the slave, who ends up being the main character,
and that's why it's called a slave story trilogy. He is, through ways I won't get into,
now he certainly, he discovers eventually that things about his birth and his past have been
hidden from him. And once he finds out what has been hidden, it promotes a crisis of identity on
his part. But maybe I'll just say he discovers that his mother had been Jewish. And he lives in
a world that I illustrate very heavily in the book where there's a lot of anti-Jewish sentiment.
You know, he's grown up growing up with anti-Jewish, anti-Jewishism around him. So it's like,
what do you do when you discovered that you're one of those weirdos? Are you going to accept that,
you're going to reject it, and how you work that through. And so he meets a young woman
of love interest who's Jewish, who helps him work through those things. And the book second book ends
with them on the way to Israel, hoping this is like, you know, nirvana and discovering that
they've arrived in the years leading up to the Jewish revolt and all the turmoil that's going
on in Israel. And how are they going to handle that, particularly given that he's had a very
positive experience of the Roman world. And he gets into this world where there's a lot of
anti-Roman sentiment. And so the third book follows them on through this difficult period of a couple
of decades and what comes after that. And along the way, he's got a little bit of encounter with a
guy who we call Josephus, and is going to have some reflections on him, Jewish historian, he wrote
about this period. So in general, they're in general, I intentionally avoid having real historical
characters. You know, when I went and visited these places on the ground, it brought to life
some of the stories or the things that are mentioned about these people in history. And so I definitely
think that what you did is fascinating for those who are wanting to go and visit Antioch or modern
day Turkey and actually look at these places. So these novels kind of bring up the idea of like
what it must have been like to be a Jew in the Greco-Roman world. And I'd love to get you to
comment on that and also mention that when I was over there in Israel, you know, we visited Sephorus
or Seferus, however you want to pronounce it. Like a lot of the mosaics on the ground when we were
there had like centaurs in Greco-Roman images, and these are Jewish houses. So like your novel is
painting quite a Mediterranean world for Jews themselves. It's not like they were completely
clean of all the cooties from the Greco-Roman world. So you know what I mean? It's kind of a blend
of things. Yeah, anything. There's a lot more, there's a lot in the books about religion, not in
the sense of promoting it or promoting faith. In fact, often in the books, religion gets
more of a negative take as much as a positive take. But Greek religion, Roman religion,
indigenous religion, Judaism, some Christianity, because religion was central to the Roman, Roman
social life. And that's something to get a lot of times in historical presentations. Certainly
you don't get it in other historical novels. You know, people just don't know about or care about
the centrality of religion in that world. And so Judaism probably gets more attention in the books
than any other because of this kind of whole dilemma of my character about how he's going
to respond to the discovery about his own past, also because it's something I've done a lot of
work on myself. And you know, we tend to think today of, you know, anti-Semitism and Hitler,
and this being a kind of modern thing. But there was a lot of anti-Judaism in the ancient world.
I mean, really, Jews were spread all over the Roman world. And so people, everybody knew about
them. And you either loved them or you hated them, for the most part. There were certainly,
even among the elites, people who found Judaism attractive, they admired its strict monotheism
because it cohered with some of their best philosophical kind of understandings of the
universe that behind the many gods, it was the one great creator, et cetera. And they admired
their strict moral lifestyle that was consistent with a lot of philosophical teachings. And they
admired their family life and things like this. But more and more common was a view of Jews as
just these weirdos who, they were considered atheists because they did not worship the Greek
and Roman gods. It was seen as vital to maintaining the favor of the deities on your city. They were
seen as lazy because they took, they totally did not work one day a week. This practice of
circumcision was barbaric to Greeks and Romans. And it wasn't something you can hide, as we might
think, because everybody went to the public baths and was naked in front of each other.
And it was pretty clear who was Jewish and who was not. In fact, all kinds of crazy rumors went
around about Jews about this, that their men were sex-crazed, chasing after Gentile women,
and a host of other things like this. And the biggest thing was that this refusal
participate in anything involving the gods. Now, not all Jews were that strict about it.
I do deal with that some in my Paul and Asclepius book. But generally speaking,
all of Roman life involved, you go to the theater, they're going to be sacrifices and prayers at the
beginning. You go to the hippodrome, they're going to be sacrifices and prayers at the beginning.
You know, do you do that or not as a Jew? And so Jews had themselves mixed attitudes toward
Greek and Roman culture. Some of them, like Philo of Alexandria, whose writings we have,
were very, you know, they found a way to blend being a good educated Greek with being a faithful
Jew. And they didn't see necessarily a conflict, though there were things that you couldn't reconcile
between them. Others were very anti-Greek, and probably the best example of that would be the
Maccabees in the 2nd century BC. And they're resisting efforts to impose Greek ways on the
land of Israel to the point that they took up arms and drove Greek rulers, established an independent
and everything in between. And so in my book, one gets my novels, one gets exposed to the diversity
of those Jewish views of Greeks and Romans in the same way that you also get exposed to the
diverse views of Jews by Greeks and Romans. And in fact, the other main character to the
Master in my story undergoes an evolution in his own thinking once he encounters Jews and talks with
them. So I've got a lot of conversation between a Gentile and a Jew, where you get this perspective
of how Judaism looks to a non-Jew in those days. And vice versa, how Jews would kind of dialogue
and think about non-Jews. And then once you throw Christianity at them, how both of
those looked at Christians as being dangerous, because at least Judaism had legal protection
from the Romans. The Romans respected the antiquity of Judaism, but these little Christian groups were
dangerous. They were not an exception. The Romans were always suspicious of people meeting privately,
always worried that they're going to be plotting revolt, and they had all kind of
getting crazy rumors that went around about Christians. You know, they're cannibals because
they eat somebody's blood and body when they get together. And they have sex orgies, but you know,
look at the way they love each other, hug on each other, and just all these other crazy things.
You did not want your... And they were subversive because they followed another Lord and a Son
of God. Those were terms that were used of Caesar, that he is the Lord and he is the Son of God.
Would you want your kids to be part of a subversive group of sex-crazed cannibals?
You know, of course not. And so that's how a lot of people, you know, thought about Christianity
back in the day. So a little kind of overview of some of those things. But in the books, you get a
lot of actual lived practice of what sacrifices were like, what the kind of wild, orgiastic rituals
that the goddess Sebele were like, and a host of other kinds of things like that.
Yeah, that kind of answered the question of how the fact that Christianity is rooted in Judaism
have affected the success of Christian ideas. But specifically in Asia Minor, how did this impact
the fact that Christianity comes out of Judaism?
Yeah. In Asia Minor, you had not just Greek and Roman traditions, but you had the native,
the indigenous traditions. In particular, there are two deities who play a big role in my
novels. One people may have heard of, sometimes she's sometimes called Sebele, C-Y-B-E-L-E.
Greek pronunciation is kibeli. And she was the great mother goddess, earth goddess,
that was worshiped under different names, long history of this in Asia Minor. And then there
were a lot of local deities. And one of those is a god named Maine, who was the moon deity,
in particularly in Phrygia, in Central Asia Minor. And the reason I mentioned him is because
Antioch Mipucidia, where my story begins and the home and ends,
right outside that on a hilltop, this is sanctuary of the god Maine. And so I actually have them go
and make an annual festival up there and what happens there at the temple and
the games that take place and on and on. And so in this, once one has some understanding of these
rituals, just a quick word about, you know, kibeli. She was served by a priest called Gali,
who carried her image around from place to place. And they would engage in these
big public ritualistic displays where they would dance around in music and cut themselves with
swords and knives. And then the new initiates would castrate themselves. They're in public.
And I have a description of this. I have a description of this.
I thought this was Addis only, like I didn't realize this.
Yeah, no, no. Yeah, exactly. Addis also. And so, you know, there was this sense of a lot of,
you know, more educated Greeks and Romans that this Anatolia place as they would have
this is just a wacko full of religious wackos. And so the Christians,
and their minds would just be one more, you know, branch of these religious wackos.
And just just to get your to get your expertise on this, kibeli is does this have any connection
with kibeli? Where we get the oracles from? Or
No, that's different. Yeah, that this. Okay. Yeah, the sibling oracles is
S I B Y L. Interesting. I never thought about the fact that the two to sound and their spells.
C Y V E L E is the Romans took her over. She was the first foreign goddess introduced to Rome.
And the name they call there was Magna Mater, the great mother. And there was a temple in Rome,
their temples to kibeli all over the place. But they did try to tamp down these these rituals,
you know, they didn't allow the the wild, crazy, orgiastic nature of it in Rome. But that's the
only you know that they did have some control over it. They tried the same thing with Dionysus,
where you had kind of orgiastic rituals that they again tried to clamp down on at times.
With the mine ads and all of that, you know, this is an interesting there's a there's a book and I
plan on getting it when the money's right, where it's called cutting too close or something. And
that someone this is why I love what you do. Someone and I can't remember the scholar's name,
you probably know, is suggesting Paul's writing to the Galatian church that they had a local
Addis cult, and that is Paul kind of doing a joke on the inside when he says just cut yourself all
the way off in a direct response to the native cult in this region to the Galatians. And so
I wonder if there's any significance in Asia Minor with these other cults and Christianity,
what kind of influence, but would it have been difficult for Christians? Yeah, sorry, go ahead.
The more we understand the bottom line is, you know, the more we understand about the
and religious world in which these early Christians operated, the more we can understand
both why some people found them attractive, because they were similar to
certain aspects. For example, there were similar people who were one thing I didn't mention earlier
is, you know, some of these Greeks, Romans who were attracted to Judaism, actually converted,
which involved being circumcised obeying the Jewish laws, affiliating yourself with the local
Jewish synagogue and things like that. But many others did not do that for the social stigma. And
again, the obvious element you go to the baths, people can see there's something different
about Joe today. And, and so it was a very obvious kind of thing to be made fun of and such as that.
So the other there were Greeks and Romans who attended Jewish synagogues, practiced certain
Jewish ways like food laws and Sabbath observance, but did not go all the way. And these are the
people that Luke in the book of Acts calls God fearers, not that they're afraid of God, but they
fear or reverence or respect the God of Israel, the one true God from the standpoint of the
author of Acts. And so these people become a vital channel for the spread of Christianity.
I do have a little bit of God fearers in there too, because in essence, for them, when someone
like Paul comes along, they're saying, okay, you can have what you want. You can have a relationship
with this God of Israel, the one you've come to honor, but you can get it cheaper. You don't have
to be circumcised and you don't have to obey these Jewish laws. It's like, sign me up. You know,
I'm happy if there's an easier way to get to the same goal. And then those people,
along with Jews like Paul, who were raised in a Greek world and kind of can translate Judaism
into a Greek lingo and ideological context, those people too, these God fearers, you know,
they know something about Judaism. They know, obviously the Greek world and mode of thought.
And so between them, people like the Paul, the Hellenized or Jews, Jews who know a lot about
Greek, and these Greeks who know a lot about Judaism become the transition point, the mechanism
by which Greeks and Romans and native peoples who knew little or nothing about Christianity
could come to understand what it was about and either reject it or accept it.
How significant would you say, and this is jumping topics here, but to the title of your book,
how significant would you say Asclepius was in Paul's world? I mean,
obviously we've done previous episodes, but yeah, yeah, might be just best to refer people back
to all got a whole episode in that just brief for those who have not heard that. The sickness and
injury were total universal factors of life in the ancient world. And therefore, there are a
variety of approaches to healing. And one of those perhaps the most common was resort to the
Greek healing God, Asclepius. Not only he had temples in every city, there were healing shrines,
central shrines that people could go to. People could have a statue, put a little statue of
Asclepius on their shrine they used in the morning to offer rituals to the gods.
They were prayed to him. And he was unlike most other gods in that he was seen as being
fundamentally compassionate towards human beings. He had once been a human god who was killed by
Zeus because he tried to raise people from the dead. And Pluto was getting angry about that.
But then he was elevated to divinity. He was a son of Apollo. And he becomes a deity who is
actually a lot of the titles that Christians use about Jesus were also used of him. He is
they have hymns to him as the divine savior, the loving lord and master, and the one who gives life
and all these kinds of things. And so in this academic book, part of what I talk about is
in the first few centuries of Christianity, the way the various church fathers had to battle against
the Tentacles. No, no, no. You don't keep going to Asclepius. And they did keep going to Asclepius,
even Christians, because this was so ingrained in their way of dealing with reality. They also
continue to engage in magical practices of healing and various other things that, again,
I talk about in that academic book. But some of that comes up in these novels as well.
Wow. Yeah, this is a lot about the dream. People would go to these sanctuary areas of
Asclepius seeking a dream. Asclepius appeared to people in dreams. And at least so it was believed
and either miraculously healed them. Lots of stories and reports of people left testimonies
of the healing miracles done by Asclepius or would give instructions to the doctors who
are also at these shrines about what kind of treatments they should apply or to the individual
sick person about what they should do. And there's a wonderful, fun book by a guy named Aelius Aristides.
Fine, if you like reading original ancient texts, but it's fine. Anyway, Aelius Aristides,
The Sacred Tale, Second Century A.D., narrating his extended visits to the sanctuary of Asclepius
at Pergamon, the same one that's visited in my book. And the dreams he has and how the doctors
often think these prescriptions he says he's given in his dreams are wacko, but they go along.
Anyway, because if the God says it, I guess we've got to do it. And so fascinating kind of a,
you know, birds an eyewitness view of what it was like to be engaging with Asclepius and his
devotion to Asclepius as like a personal savior. That makes you think like comparing that to the
modern world. Like in many ways there's going to be differences, but in many ways humans are humans,
right? So like the typical guy who goes into church and is praying, you know, I hope that girl
falls in love with me. And it's like, this hasn't stopped, right? We've been doing this for thousands
of years. You talk about, you know, the practices of Greek and Roman civic religion, and then
personal religion. And I want to fuse a few questions together while we're doing this.
One of the things is like, how did the Greek and Roman civic religion? What is their personal
religion? What is the civic religion? And is there a comparison or analogy that modern times we could
give like people are very political? I've said this before, and I don't know if this is a good
comparison to correct me if I'm wrong, but like I've said before that I get this really bad taste
in my mouth, especially in current political situation in America. But people are just as
tribalistic and just as extreme politically speaking as some fundamentalists would be
religiously speaking. What is, what is, if you will, civic religion and personal religion in the
ancient world? Yeah, there's no such thing as separation of religion and politics in the ancient
world, religion and personal life, religion and economics, religion permeates everything.
Cultural life, as I mentioned earlier, you'd have sacrifices at athletic events and at
performances and such as that. And so the Romans were, it really took this so far to the extreme.
It's like, even like there's a deity of your threshold and a deity of the doorframe. And
every morning, you know, everything that you, it's like you're surrounded by these spiritual
entities and the sense that you have to appease them or keep them happy. Every morning you'd
have a ritual where you honor the family god. So this is more on the personal religion side.
But on the civic side, you know, whenever there was any kind of a public event, religion plays a
vital role. But even at the higher level than that, the reason for that is that each city
had its own patron god or goddess that was by no means monotheistic, but the sense that
this god or goddess watches over us. So the best-known example of this is Artemis and Ephesus.
And so even in the Book of Acts, greatest Artemis of the Ephesians. And so it's expected that
all the citizens are going to participate in public rituals, periodically, annual festivals,
periodic events that sit around, sacrifice to the gods, and the magistrates of the town
play the leading roles in these. In fact, to be a priest of a Roman god was an official government
position. There was no, not something that you, it's not like, say, the priests in ancient Israel
where you're from a particular family. It would be an elite person who was chosen for that role.
And it's kind of a way of establishing the unity of religion and government and religion and power
in the ancient world. And so we might say today, religion was used by the elites to control people.
And on the other hand, that people used religion at the personal level, in essence,
to get what they wanted. I mean, here's a big difference between modern thinking that I really
and today that I bring out a lot in the books. Religion in the ancient world
was not about some kind of personal spirituality. It wasn't, you know, I go and pray and, you know,
read my Bible or whatever the case may be. Religion was entirely transactional. You
address and deal with the gods in order to get what you want. And so you are praying or offering
sacrifices or making a pilgrimage because you want good crops or a healthy child or success in
this upcoming election if you're an elite person or something, or, you know, to avert something bad
that is happening to you, you know, my wife is sick, my, my locals are eating my crops or
whatever the case may be. And so religion was something that was involved. You know, we today
might say use a word manipulating the gods. It's a bit too strong a word, but, you know,
because there was a certain kind of element of humble submission that was involved in the behavior
that gods wanted. But in the end, particularly with the Romans, it was, it was so ritualistic that
at a Roman public ritual, if somebody, if the priest slips up with a word, they would have the
book they got to read the ritual from. If they slip up on a word or they do something not quite
right on the sacrifice, they got to start all over because you have to do it properly step by
step. And it's almost, not quite, but it's almost like if you do it all right, the god has to act.
You, you, you fulfilled your side of the, of the obligation. Now the god is compelled to do what
you want. So, you know, very different ideas about religion than we would have today. But, you
know, I should say if I could make a transition, although you can keep me from it if you like,
much of this is, is essentially projecting to the realm of the gods, ordinary Romans social life,
and the way their society was structured and operated so differently than ours. And so I bring,
I bring about a lot of that out in the novels too. But do you want to talk more about the
religion side or can we shift though? We can shift. I just was going to say, can you imagine
when everybody's casting locks or is going to be the governor and priest stuttering stand over
there? Let's make sure we don't get him the show. We'll be out there all day. Oh snap.
Oh yeah. And when you, when bad things happen, you know, you can blame it on somebody didn't do
the ritual correctly. Exactly. It's always somebody's fault, you know. I think, you know,
several centuries later when Augustine writes his famous work, The City of God,
basically what's going on there is the barbarians of sacked Rome and Christianity has become so
popular. The pagans are blaming the Christians for this. They're saying it happened because
the Christians are not honoring the gods of Rome. And Augustine writes his work, The City of God,
to say, no, no, it's the opposite. You know, you folks don't honor the one through God and therefore,
you know, our God is the one who has brought this judgment upon you. And so, you know, everybody is
reading the hand of God. In fact, actually, before we move on, you did ask about modern times. And
of course, in the ancient world as today, some people want to read the hand of the gods in
social events and public events in the weather. I mean, this is just normal. The gods act in all
things. There's not a secular world. There's not a world that operates by some kind of laws
independent of the gods. The universe works the way it does, not because there are these impersonal
natural laws, but because the gods make it so. And so whatever happens, you see, trying to figure
out why did the God or the gods do this and what did I do wrong or whatever. And so you can
associate that today with people, particularly on the conservative Christian side, who want to
see God's hand at work in political matters, in the weather, you know, in Hurricane Katrina,
hit New Orleans. Some leaders are saying, well, this is because of their sinfulness is God's
judgment on that godless city of New Orleans for all these awful things that they do there.
So, and the idea that God wants to raise up certain leaders and and God has certain ideas
about how society ought to work. I mean, some degree, that's universal. I mean, the idea, this
modern idea that you should separate religion and politics, people thought that was wacko when
the our founding fathers were setting that up in the 1700s. You can't have a society without a
single religion. You know, that's the unifying force of people. And I guess we're still trying
to figure that one out. But the impulse to see the gods at work in social and political life and
to believe that you represent the will and the way of the God of the gods that needs to be imposed,
that you know, that was normal in the ancient world. It's been normal in most human cultures
throughout history. Wow. Excellent. Okay. So there's so much we could actually say about religion
in continuing in this social life a bit here. Yeah, tell us about the social life. Yeah,
one of the things that's vital to understand about Roman Greek society, particularly Roman society,
that touches in various comes out in various subtle ways in our New Testament concerns the
relationships, the highly hierarchically structured nature of Roman society. You know,
this idea that all humans are made equal by the creator endowed with an amorous nothing like that
in the ancient world. People are made, some are made superior and some are made inferior. And so
the ones who are occupied that to upper rungs of society are there because they are to use our
modern term genetically superior to those on the bottom. And they're also favored by the gods more
so than those on the bottom. And so you are where you are in the social pecking order because it
reflects your inherent nature. Women in that in that category in that schema are again, we would
use the word genetically inherently inferior to men. Women are incomplete men. They are beings who
did not develop a penis and male organs in the womb and came out before they were done, if you
want to say. And so women are again, innately inferior to men. And that's why they can't hold
positions of authority in society. Two things. This evidence that men came up with that idea,
number one. All of this reflects the fact that the, you know, the documents and the social values
were framed by elite urban males. But also this is a caste system, a form of a caste system just
to make that clear for people who are like, huh, the Hindus in many ways still practice or have
this kind of system. And I think you could almost argue a form of caste system exists almost everywhere.
It's just kind of been reinterpreted over in different ways. But caste system might be a little
too strong in the Indian system. You have these four clearly defined categories. You don't have
that. It's more gradations in the Roman thought. But then the slaves are at the bottom of everything.
And you know, they're slaves because they're inferior. And either they were conquered in war,
which shows they were inferior because they wouldn't have lost if they were, you know,
equal to us. And their gods are seen as inferior to our gods because they were defeated by our
armies. They're also inferior in the sense that they are not seen as having the intelligence
and the ability. They're basically slaves are not human beings. So slaves are classed and treated
like a donkey or like a hoe. They're defined as human tools or not even as, as, you know,
either they're, they're human tools might be the best way of putting that are the even really human
is a question of point there. And so it's really odd about this system, though. Well,
before I get to that, I got to see one more point. So basically in the ancient world,
honor is the primary currency. It's an honor and shame. Today, money is how we evaluate value
people, right? People, the billionaires, whatever they are, they're the top. Many didn't matter
so much in the Roman world. What matter is your family ancestry, and that you were born of these
one of these elite, patrician families. It didn't matter if you had money, you were going to be at
the top of the top of the pecking order. And then there's a gradation going down from there. And so
people at the lower rungs of this spectrum are expected to honor and serve the people above
them. And then benefits flow downward. You do the people on the top do things for the people
in the bottom. There's no social service system, no social safety net. And so you want to be attached
as a lower person to someone who's better up further up the rank to you called your patron.
And so people who were kind of in the middle of the rain, they would go every morning to the home
of their patron. And this is depicted in my novels and greet them and ask what they can do that day
for them. And if they have needs or go ask them for help, and they would follow them around the
city when they go out in public, because the modern ideal of humility, a Christian ideal,
no, none of that, you got it, you flaunt it, you know, you show people how powerful and influential
you are. And so you walk through the city with these clients behind you with a
choir in front of you saying, make way for Chris Stanley, you know, whatever, and everybody's
got to make way for you. And so there was this very everything about social interaction was
meant to reinforce your place on the pecking order. And so if I am a wealthy elite man, and I give a
meal, if I invite my, my clients, which I might be noted to get them there, some of the lower
ranking people, they're going to sit further away from where the action is going on, and they're
going to get poorer food. So it's kind of like if you imagine a banquet hall today, you know,
I and my buddies are sitting up at the front, and we're having steak and lobster, and then the people
little further back are having like grilled pork chops. And the people at the back of the room
are having hot dogs. And it's there constantly this reinforcement in everything that you do
of your place in the pecking order. And basically you're born at a particular place, and you stay
in that particular place, you do whatever your parents did with one exception. And this is what
I'm leading up to slave slavery. I mentioned that slaves are at the bottom. But there was this kind
of ambiguity about that because slaves are also in elite households very close to the family.
And so we we have to put out of our minds, and slavery is central to my knowledge as well,
but to put out of our minds, the idea of slavery that we have from Southern American practice,
slavery could be brutal like that, you know, meat masters, particularly out on farms or in
the mines, slaves were treated horribly. But just as slaves who worked in the household in the south
we treated better than field slaves, even more so in the Roman world. And a person who was a slave,
a close who worked closely with the master, or the mistress, could gain all kinds of privileges.
And if you were a slave, with the master's approval, you could own property, you could even
own other slaves, you could work outside the house and make money. And you could that the master
would use you as his agent to carry out his business. And you represented the the master.
And so, in fact, Augustus ran the empire through his slaves, educated imperialist often slaves,
some slaves are better educated than free people than they're the free elites and certainly than
they than the ordinary people. And so, believe it or not, it was better to be a slave in the household
of a good master than to be a poor free person. And the other aspect of this is people slaves
were very often liberated. They, you know, maybe by the time they got to be 30 or so. And if you
were a slave in a wealthy household like this, and you had a master who allowed you to accumulate
the property and wealth of your own, you could be freed and be a wealthy person. And the the so
then the elites had the had this really weird attitudes towards you that the freedman is this
kind of image of the boorish freedman a trope where, you know, okay, they got all the money,
I got to go to them maybe and borrow some money from them, I got to butter them up so they'll help
me. But they're disgusting to be around, you know, they're just this inferior beings that have no
place being where they are at our place in society. So the the the idea of slavery is actually
the one channel of social advancement in in the Roman rule and Dale, Dale Martin wrote a wonderful
book that highlighted this for a lot of a lot of us where he deals with Paul's image of slavery
and how this isn't just a demeaning thing, it's also a way that can be a mode of self exaltation
and how the slave gets favored by the patron, and how then for him this is mean something
different when Paul speaks of himself as a slave of Jesus Christ and what we would think today.
That's what I was randomly there, but let me come back at me with some questions.
Yeah, no, this is good. Let's let's in. Let's focus on this last thing you brought up. Paul
really emphasizes that he's a slave of Christ. I mean, he brags about being a slave of Christ.
Our Bible is translate tone that down by saying a servant of Jesus Christ, but it's just the
normal word for slave. He is Jesus is slave. And you know, just just to kind of make this point,
there's no in no way are you trying to say the system of slavery is a good thing altogether.
But in in this messed up world that we've lived in, in the way that systems have been run,
a lot of this stuff has just been maybe even misunderstanding of the world we live in and
and horrible perceptions of this pecking order that we kind of created, which gives people who
are born with no choice of their own in certain places in the world, which is why I used the
caste system. But I know that carries baggage that I'm not really trying to bring over. It's
still has this idea of like, you're kind of born where you are on purpose, and there's a meaning
and even the gods view you that way. So Dr. Stanley, just emphasizing the point that people are born
where they're born, and this is the social order of things. So I just wanted to get that off of
our back as I was leading into Paul bragging about being a slave of Christ. Now today, we don't like
this language. And I think that's why interpreters or translators, if you will, are trying to say,
you know, as a servant of Christ is just like I serve Jesus. But in a way, is this in its context,
based on what you just described about Rome, when Paul says he's a slave of Christ? Is there a sense
in your opinion, and based on the research you've done, where he's kind of bragging? I'll give you
an example. First Corinthians 15, when he talks and lists all the visions and who saw the Lord and
all, he says, you know, in the last untimely born was me, but I worked harder than all of them.
So he constantly boasts about his place, even if it's last, I'm really first in a way. I'm a slave
of Christ. Is this him kind of saying I am the closest, I am the highest in Jesus? Yeah, I mean,
there's Paul does a lot of ironic things with his language that you really don't pick up unless you
understanding something about this world. But yeah, we think that he's demeaning himself when
it's you, if you are a trusted slave and emissary of the Lord of the universe, you're actually a
pretty high Muckity Muck here. You know, you're the equivalent of one of these
Imperial slaves through which Augustus ruled his empire, and who gave orders to free men
and carried out the will of the emperor. You know, they almost didn't have a governmental machinery.
It was a very loose, decentralized system, but as much as you had a government, it was basically
the Imperial slaves. But you know, another jumping off point, sorry, from that that's worth noting
is, once you understand how rigidly hierarchical this world was, you come to see how radically
subversive the message of Paul was. When he says something like, in Christ, there's neither
Jew nor Greek, male nor female, slave nor free. He's saying all these social hierarchies and values
that everybody takes for granted are wrong, are contrary to the will of the one who is the
real Lord of the universe, the real Son of God, Jesus Christ, his Father, the God of Israel,
not Caesar and not this hierarchy. This is one of the main reasons why people feared and tried to
suppress Christianity, because it's saying everything about your social system is wrong,
and we're going to live it out in this little group here, meeting in people's living room,
and we're going to live out and create this alternate utopian society where it doesn't
matter if you're a man or a woman, it doesn't matter if you're a slave or a free person,
it doesn't matter if you're an educated elite person or a manual laborer, and all this anti-Jewish
stuff and Jewish suspicion of Greeks and all, none of that is going to come to play a role in this
group. I mean, just hear how absolutely radically counter-cultural that message is.
But it's inspiring for the total poll, right? This is one of the questions I want to ask you
about this, because this is a mind-blowing thing to think about. I imagine I'm hypothetical here,
I can't predict that this is exactly what happened, but I imagine statistically speaking,
if Paul was rich, if Paul was a rich man, I don't know if he would have enjoyed this
philosopher or even taught it, but he seems that he's not at the top, but he also doesn't ever,
from what I understand, say he's a slave, he's not the bottom, he's this guy, though,
that seems to fit some category in the middle, maybe, or below the middle,
where he has to work, he's a hard worker, but he's connected with people on the lower level,
mostly, it seems, but he has some patrons who are able to finance him. So I have a hard time
knowing how successful in this world would this kind of subversive message you're describing
really be at first. And I ask that with the caveat of suggesting, when we look at Luke,
when we look at Matthew, Luke's like, blessed are the poor, but like Matthew goes, blessed are the
poor in spirit. Like, somebody's not enjoying this whole go-sell everything you own and come
following your message. Yeah, you know, it's interesting, I'm going to share with you something
I've never actually put in print, and I don't think I'm the only one who thinks this way, but
I don't see Paul the way you just described him, essentially, but the very fact that he is educated
and able to write these letters says that he grew up in the rarefied atmosphere of an elite family,
an elite Jewish family. And the fact that he is having to work with his hands, you know,
acts described as a tent maker, he never actually says what he does. I think it's something that's
been forced on him and that he's embraced because I think he's rejected by his family. I think
when Philippians 3, when he talks about, I've suffered the loss of all things, I think he
literally means that. He was kicked out of his family. He lost his access to financial resources,
he lost his social status that he had growing up. And so, you know, when he takes pride in his
manual labor, I think we've got to hear in the background there, not somebody who grew up as
a manual labor, but somebody who's kind of got this pride that I'm willing to do this in order
to serve Christ, but you know what, I wasn't made for this. So, I think he's picked this up and it's
that kind of, kind of like today, maybe a gentleman farmer, you know, might take pride in being a good
farmer, but you know, he's not like that person who's a sixth generation, you know, scrabbling
around on the dirt to survive kind of person. He does seem a bit clever to be able to get finances
and to organize the way that he does. I don't imagine, I mean, just hypothetically, a slave that
isn't being taught by someone who is in a higher position. Like, he seems to be organizing quite
well and defending himself quite well. So, yeah, I would imagine being from a sophisticated
Yeah, if you're a person from the upper echelon society, you can take a kind of a
chosen pride in being a manual laborer. You can take a kind of chosen pride in being a slave.
A real manual laborer wouldn't have gone around being proud of it. A real slave wouldn't have
gone around being proud of it and exalting it, you know, something like that. So, I think that
this reflects Paul's, as you say, he's a man of a lot of ability. You don't get that by growing up
at the bottom of society. So, many of the things that we take for granted as part of a person's
upbringing, only the elites had access to. And so, with that being said, I think Paul is embodying
in his own self the kind of person he wants other people to be. A person where, you know,
people, his own social background, he's not getting credit for that anymore.
He has affiliation with the Jewish community. He doesn't have that anymore. He doesn't have
the leisure that came with being a member of an elite family, etc., etc. But he's saying,
that's okay, because I've got something better now, you know, and you can have this something
better too. And we're going to build something better. We're going to build a better world.
But here's where two kind of implications, I want to draw from that one from the ancient world,
one from the modern world. Well, Paul, on the other hand, does not criticize the Greek enrollment
world. He doesn't tell his people to go out and work for social change. He doesn't tell them,
you know, go work for the abolition of slavery. Go work for women's equality. No, partly that's
because you didn't have a democratic society where, you know, the ordinary person just didn't
have any input into the political system. But partly it's because he and all his followers
believe the end is coming soon. And that's when so we are living between now and the short time
that returns in kind of a prior glimpse of what heaven is going to be like, of what this
kingdom of God is going to be like. We're trying to embody it here on earth. Having said that,
you know, when I talk about these things and get excited about them at the same moment,
I'm just feeling such a revulsion at what Christianity has become today in America.
I mean, the idea of Christianity as this radical countercultural phenomenon that's promoting
social egalitarianism, that's looking out for the poor and the needy, that is where
everyone has a place and it doesn't matter who you are, where you've got money and power or
anything like that. And where you're not trying to dominate society, but you're trying to model
out a kind of a better option and a better world such that people will see and be attracted to
this thing that you're doing here. Particularly if I could be a little personal here, the kind of
Bible even Christianity you and I grew up with is just the opposite of that today. And it's just so
election just yesterday. And you probably think you share some of my revulsion and a lot of those
kind of things that Jesus and Paul would throw up their hands at and run from.
Yeah, 100%. And there's funny videos out there about various...
I think that as a Christian myself.
But that's a good thing. I think there are people who can model themselves as good ethics and good
ways in participating in society while having faith. I do want to bring us,
as we're getting close here to the end, because there's actually much more we can dive into.
Oh, yeah.
I'm sure we could do a whole another episode. But specifically, as we're approaching this,
I want to ask, since we thought Paul might have come from an elite background, does this give
any validity to Acts in Gamaliel to try and argue that maybe he had been taught, even though in his
own letters, which we have to be highly critical and question, everything Acts tries to present
about Paul, because it doesn't get facts right about Paul in many cases. It makes me wonder if
there's some rumor or tradition, or did Acts kind of, Luke, whoever the author of this is,
uphold this out of his hat to give kind of pedigree to Paul. But if he comes from an elite family,
could he have not been trained by Gamaliel?
Yeah. For the sake of your audience, what Derek's referring to is in the Book of Acts,
it says that Paul, before he was a Christian, he was studying with the head Jewish leader,
Jewish leader of the Pharisees named Gamaliel, Gamaliel. There's no evidence in Paul's letters
to support that, but I think there's a lot of indirect evidence that could at least
lend Paul's ability to something like that. Paul says, you know, we've got to have Paul,
if the Book of Acts is correct that he grew up in Tarsus, he grew up somewhere in the Roman world,
and if we grant Tarsus, if Tarsus is not a place you would make up as a home for Paul,
how does he end up in Israel? How does he end up persecuting the church there? I mean,
he himself talks about having gone to Jerusalem and persecuting the church and all that. So what
took him there? Well, probably some kind of education. He refers to himself as being a
Hebrew of Hebrews and Israelite of Israelites for Philippians 3. He's someone who's very proud of
his Jewish tradition. So I picture him as being part of a conservative Jewish family with strong
roots in Israel, you know, strong ties, familial ties, maybe they're fairly recent. If Acts is
right that he's a Roman citizen, his family may have done some service to the Romans either in
Israel or elsewhere, perhaps during the civil wars in 1st century BC, Asia Minor, when there's a lot
of Jews did do that and provide support, including Herod did a lot of that. But a lot of plausibility,
they could have been a well, if not wealthy, at least well enough off Jewish family conservative
Israel, sent their son there to study and be trained in the ways of their ancestors.
When he says he does say he was a Pharisee, which is puzzling. As far as we know, there were no
Pharisees outside of Israel. He didn't go to the local Pharisee school or something like that. So
that implies that he had training in Israel with Pharisees. Well, you know, that does that mean
he was a Gamaliel? Who knows? But he says he was in Galatians too. He was advancing in the
tradition, the ways of the fathers beyond his peers. He was very zealous. And so it
lends plausibility, whether it was Gamaliel or something like that. It seems that the basic
idea that he's a diaspora Jew, educated diasporas Jew, sent to Israel to be educated in Judaism,
that's where he gets his deep knowledge of the scriptures, etc, etc. You know, it all kind of
ties together, whether the details are exactly right, I couldn't say. But I think that at least
the broad picture of how acts presents that must be must be valid as a fair amount of coherence
between Paul's letter and letters and the book of Acts. Final question as we've been talking about
Asia Minor. I opened the book of Revelation again. And who are the churches? Then where are they at?
Asia Minor. So I wondered, you know, this author who's on the island of Patmos,
is quite radically anti-Roman. Not a big fan. I definitely read Revelation to be speaking about
Rome, at least Mystery Babylon. I take Revelation 11 when it talks about Egypt and Sodom. I'll take
that as Jerusalem. But it's probably those who are cooperating with Mystery Babylon. So like they
have the mark. They're the people who are playing along with Rome. In Asia Minor, is there anything
significant on the ground that you would say leaps out at you now that you actually, I look at you
as kind of this robot, a human of a robot, who actually kind of can situate themselves in this
kind of world? And when they read it, they're like, whoa, I would have never seen that. Is there
anything in Revelation that you could think of that might leap out at you from you being able
to situate yourself into that culture in Asia Minor? Well, you know, I hadn't thought about it
quite that way. We do have totally outside of Judaism. There are, particularly in some of the
Sibylene oracles, some anti-Roman sentiments, certainly in Egypt, where some of those came from,
Mesopotamia. There, we know there were some anti-Roman sentiments. To some degree, there's
anti-Romanism everywhere. But was there anything distinctive about Asia Minor in that regard?
There was during the period when the Romans ended up taking over, there were wars between
them and the rulers at Pergamon, the Mithridates and others, where eventually the last of that
family willed their empire to the Romans, and that's how they came in. And they gradually
worked their way over and took things over from the Seleucids, etc. But there was not a,
by the time we come to Paul, the Romans have been ruling for a couple of centuries in Asia Minor.
And it's pretty well integrated into their system and their culture in so far as at least the
cities are concerned. Now, you know, traditional, one of the things we often, again, comes out a
little bit in my novels, is that the countryside was very loosely touched by Greek culture and by
Roman ways and such as that. More so around the cities, less so outside of them. The Romans did
not come in nor did the Greeks and impose some central governmental system or social system.
They basically are planted cities and the culture and influence radiated outward from those cities.
We see this in today in America with people who are out in the country versus people who are in
different values. Exactly. Exactly. I mean, you look at the maps of various states and the voting
and red and the blue, and it's like the rural areas are red and the cities are blue. Right.
So you certainly have some rural urban activity. But Paul, actually, one of the little things about
Paul, Paul is a man of cities, not a single word anywhere in his letters or in the book of Acts,
of him just gathering a group of people together in some village or on a farm and,
you know, or staying at a local farmer's house and talking about Jesus. Paul is a man who is
at home in the world of cities. And so he is going to be reflecting that ethos. And
if anything, the only place I would see would be more within the framework of Judaism.
And even in Asia Minor particularly, Judaism has favored by the Romans. Jewish historian Josephus
preserves a number of decrees by various Roman officials where they are protecting Jews when
they've appealed to Rome for help when the local Greek officials of a city are trying to get them
insist that they come to court on their Sabbath or if they're a citizen that they serve in the army
or various other kind of things that Jews could not do because they're religious scruples.
And the Romans interestingly side with the Jews. So if anything, Paul's background as a Jew would
have made him more sympathetic to Rome rather than less so. So I think it really is this
Christ experience and being involved with this early Christian community that's already
got this apocalyptic ideology that yet God of Israel is soon going to bring down,
bring in his kingdom and to bring down other kingdoms, which above all means the Romans,
that Paul I think more absorbs this in the Christian culture that he's part of. We can use
that modern term Christian here. Go ahead. No, I think it's funny when he ends up on the shipwreck
on the land of Malta, this little island, like he doesn't proselytize or try to preach to any of
them. But notice as soon as he gets to the next city, he's like, Hey, everybody. If I could add in
one other point before we close back on the social values side that I think is might be really
interesting to your readers. You know, when I talked earlier about the benefits flowing downward
and honor flowing upward, and it's a two way street. Do you know what the Greek word is for
that behavior of the Greek of the patron toward the people below him, the clients? Chorus,
which is our word that's translated in our Bible's grace. The word that we speak about God's grace
towards humans. And we understand this patron client network. Any ancient reader would have
seen that if one is receiving Chorus from God, then you owe duties of service upward to the one
who is giving you Chorus. And so this whole Lutheran dichotomy between works and faith would have
been nonsensical. The idea that somehow you can receive grace and not act in the appropriate manner
to honor and serve the patron who is giving you grace would have been nonsensical. A client who
does not offer the proper works to the patron is going to be rejected as a client, is going to be
cast off and left to his own devices, et cetera, et cetera. And so, you know, just one little
example that I'm sorry I should have mentioned earlier about understanding the social system,
just like slavery helps us to understand better, understanding this patron client system too,
helps us to understand a central Christian concept like grace and realize that there's just been
this whole, you know, chasing after rabbits that never needed to happen when it comes down to
the relationship of faith and works. The answer is yes, you know, both are part of the way that
works out. I think that's a powerful way to end because too often we think, well, once saved,
always saved, not can go and sleep around on the wife and I can joke around, you know, like God's
grace has covered me and it's like, dude, that's not how it works. But thank you so much, Dr. Stanley,
I have to give us some, absolutely. So tell us, we talked about Paul and Asclepius for anybody
who's actually interested in signing up for the patron and I will be sure we'll get, we'll draw it
in a week. Me and Dr. Stanley will touch base about this and figure out whose name and we'll email
you. Two lucky winners for joining the patron will get a copy. But you mentioned at the end,
we could talk about how someone's going to get the audible or the paperback for one of your,
the trilogy here. Yeah, yeah, I've got a few paperbacks I could do. So I guess I should throw
that in. I was primarily thinking the Kindle versions and the audible versions. I can give those
away for free on my end, but I do have some extra copies. So I could, let's do this. I would be
happy to give away, let's start with the audible version. If you, I'm sorry, so let's start with
the Kindle or it doesn't have to be Kindle agreed on your computer or any other reading device.
I'll give away five free copies of the Kindle version to people who, if you go to my website,
take us there for a moment, Derek, to the contact tab so I can tell people how to do this.
So if you click on that contact tab, you'll see a contact the author link here. So if you are
interested in getting a Kindle copy of the first book, contact me through that link and tell me,
and I will choose five people. I will ask you if you, I don't have any way of enforcing this,
but I'll ask you to only request one if you're willing to write a review on my Amazon page.
And if you do that and tell me you've done it, I just might send you a link for a free Kindle
version of the second book. So we could keep that in mind as well. So I'll do five copies of that.
I'll also do, let's say two copies of the paperback. So if you prefer the paperback specify that,
but the audible one is the one that's easier. As for the audible version,
if you have audible, you can, if you're already an audible subscriber, you can use one of your
credits to get either of the books there. But I really would like to get more reviews posted on
audible from my books. And so if you go there, in fact, you can get to the audible version.
Yeah, if you can click on the audio book there and you click on that link, it will take you to
the audible page. I will also give away five copies of both books to anyone who, again,
writes reviews. So I'll give you the link to the first one, write me a review, and then I'll send
you one to the second one if you would write a review there as well. It doesn't have to be a
glowing review. I mean, I think you will love it and you'll write good reviews of them. But I just
would like to get more responses on there to help me with promoting those books to others. So
is that clear enough? Use that contact page, contact me, tell me, do you want the audible
version? Do you want the Kindle version? Do you want the paperback version? And I will,
as with the other one, I'll allow for a week. So I think you're going to really enjoy them.
If you have any interest in the Roman world, if you have any interest in early Christianity,
any interest in Judaism in the Roman world, any of these kind of things,
I think you'll find the books engaging and interesting. I should say one last thing. I am
an absolute stickler for historical accuracy in every detail. When I talk about places in there,
when I've got a house or a street, you can go stand on that archaeological site and stand on that spot
in a lot of cases, not every case, because some places have not been fully excavated.
But I've used my imagination based on my knowledge of the standard kind of Greek city layout and
things like this and customs and practices. I had one guy contact me one time and say,
you have a character, give somebody the finger. Did they really do that back then? I said, yes,
they did. Wow, the middle finger is the infamous ancient F use.
I bet you've never had an interview end on a middle finger.
Everybody have a wonderful day.
Good place to end. Wow. Thank you, Dr. Stanley. Everybody go in the description,
check out his books, get a copy. You want to know what's happening? I want to know what's
happening. Join our Patreon. I'll look out for you on the books. So let's see who the winner is
and never forget, we are Mythdition.
