Does cognitive dissonance explain the origins of Christianity?
Does it actually solve some of the problems
that we see in the early sources?
I'm gonna play a short clip from Inti Wright
who says absolutely not.
It cannot explain the origins of Christianity.
And you have to ask yourself the question,
is he really interested in the historical research
and understanding what's going on here?
Or is he kind of grinding to show his position to be true
and that Christianity is unlike anything out there?
There is nothing comparable
and that this Jesus resurrection
is the most plausible explanation for all of the data.
We know of at least a dozen messianic or prophetic movements
between roughly a hundred years before Jesus
and roughly a hundred years after Jesus,
ending with the Bar-Coch-Fire revolt in the 130s AD.
In each of those cases,
the movement ended with the violent death of the founder
as far as we can tell.
When that happened, and there are several movements
which crop up in the history in Josephus,
we can track them and I've written about these
as others have done.
When that happened, when the founder dies,
the followers have a choice.
They can either clear off and forget the movement.
This whole kingdom of God idea,
we're not gonna get into that mess anymore.
Or they get another leader.
Going around saying that the original leader
has been raised from the dead is not an option.
Even though if they were loyal phariseic Jews
as many of them were,
resurrection would be very much in their minds
that that's what we're aiming for,
the kingdom of God, the raising of all the dead.
But not one person coming back in the middle of history.
And I've sometimes fantasized and imagined,
say after the death of Simon Bar-Giora,
who was the messiah of the war period, 66 to 70,
who the Romans killed at the end of Titus' triumph
in Rome in 72.
If somebody the next day had said,
I think God has raised him from the dead.
And his friends might say,
what do you mean God has raised him from the dead?
And if the person had said,
oh, well, you know, he always said
that one day there'll be a glorious resurrection.
So maybe that's happened.
Then his friends would say, don't be so stupid.
They just killed him.
We've just buried him.
What do you mean he's raised from the dead?
And if somebody at that point
would come out with a sort of bulk manian explanation,
oh, well, we have a sense of his presence with us.
We have a sense that our sins have been forgiven.
They would say, well, maybe he is in some sense present.
Maybe our sins have been forgiven.
But why did you say he's been raised from the dead?
That's not what that means.
So I think once we start to think historically
about what people actually knew, believed, expected,
anticipated, and how they reacted as first century Jews,
those theories simply fall away
and were left with this very stark and striking claim,
which was stark and striking in the first century
as it is today, that they say that the tomb was empty
and that they really did experience Jesus
in a new transformed physicality,
which seemed capable of inhabiting in both heaven and earth
and moving easily between the two.
That's a very strange thing.
And Jesus never talked about that in advance.
And nor, as far as we can tell,
did any of the Jewish writers who wrote about resurrection.
So there's all sorts of new things
which come out in the resurrection stories
and Paul's theories about resurrection,
for which they were unprepared
and for which theories like that of Pesh
and even the rather different theories of Dale Allison
simply don't address.
Yeah, so this argument is probably
the most popular argument
against cognitive dissonance theory
as an explanation for how Christianity began,
why it took the shape that it did.
Right, the most extensive place
that he really explains this argument in his book,
The Resurrection to the Son of God, 2003,
big, his magnum opus on the resurrection,
large 700 page book.
He spends like 600 pages arguing
for his position on the historical trustworthiness
of the resurrection of the early Christian claim
that Jesus rose from the dead.
And then he begins to address some counterarguments
and some possible non-miraculous alternatives
to the resurrection hypothesis.
And the first alternative explanation
that he addresses is cognitive dissonance theory.
And his argument, his main argument
is that cognitive dissonance theory
can't explain Christian origins
because we have evidence of a number
of different messianic movements
that arose in the first century.
And when their leaders, when the messianic claimants
at the head of those movements died,
the movements died with them.
We have no evidence of any other movement
in the first century that is similar in any way
to early Christianity that continued
after the death of their leader
and continued to kind of double down
and say, no, he's still alive.
He is, we are continuing to believe that he is the Messiah.
What you could do is pack up and find another Messiah.
That was your option.
But they wouldn't go around saying,
no, he's still the Messiah.
We still believe it.
There's a couple of problems with this.
The first major problem is that it's an argument
from silence.
And I think in that clip, he says,
as far as we know, and that as far as we know
is carrying a heck of a lot of weight in that argument
because we know next to nothing
about most other messianic movements from that period.
The only reason we know as much as we do know,
such as it is about early Christianity
is because early Christianity succeeded.
And so Wright is kind of relying on a survivor bias here
in saying that, well, because our movement survived
and because it survived,
we have maintained the tradition of the texts
associated with this movement.
But most of those other movements,
the only things we know about them
is what the history books that we have
choose to say about them,
which are usually just a sentence or two
related to the Jewish wars in 66 to 70
or Simon Bar Kokba with the Jewish revolt in 8135.
And there was just no reason to talk about them.
I think analogously, comparing those movements
to the kinds of movements that sociologists, anthropologists,
social psychologists study today
in talking about cognitive dissonance theory,
movements like the movement that Leon Festinger studied
in his seminal work when Prophecy fails in the 1950s,
we wouldn't know anything about that movement
and how they responded to the failure of their expectations
if it wasn't for the fact that Leon Festinger
and his team of researchers were studying that group
and saw in real time how they responded.
Nobody would have been interested in them otherwise.
And I mean, probably the most famous example
of failed prophecy in the 21st century
is a guy named Harold Camping,
predicted the end of the world in 2011.
And when it didn't come,
he reinterpreted things a couple of times.
And then when those dates passed,
he said, okay, I was wrong.
That all got a lot of publicity.
And then he died shortly after that.
And most people think that was the end of the matter.
His prophecies failed.
He eventually, you know...
People stopped following.
Yeah, people stopped following.
That was the end of the movement.
Most people don't know.
That's actually not the case.
There is still a group of Campingite followers
even in spite of the fact that he said, yes, I was wrong.
A lot of his followers still believe
that Jesus actually did begin his end time judgment.
They've reinterpreted things so that it fits
with the fact that Jesus didn't return
like they expected on May 21st, 2011.
But they continue to think that May 21st, 2011
was the time when the end began.
And you can look up a group called
E-Bible Fellowship on YouTube.
And they have a ton of material arguing
for the end times beginning and kind of the doors
of the gates of salvation closing on May 21st, 2011.
And it's a fascinating movement.
But we wouldn't know anything about that group
if we didn't have the internet, basically.
They would just be some isolated group somewhere
that nobody, you know, we wouldn't have any record of.
And, you know, the media doesn't have
any real interest in them.
So how much less would we have any information
about these groups in the first century, you know,
2000 years removed?
Having said that though, we actually do have data
on a couple movements from the first century
that really did maintain faith despite their leader's death.
And Wright doesn't mention these groups at all.
They doesn't account for them.
But the first is a Samaritan sect called the Decipians.
And the Decipians, they followed a guy named Decythias
who proclaimed himself as the Messiah
and they continued to believe
that he was the Messiah after their death.
And the interesting thing about them
is that we wouldn't really know this detail
that they continued to believe
that he was the Messiah after his death
if it wasn't for the fact that origin
in his commentary on the Gospel of John
mentions them in discussing the Samaritan woman
at the well that Jesus talks to at the well
and they have a conversation,
that conversation turns to talking about the Messiah.
And she says, I know that the Messiah will come
and we're waiting for him.
And Jesus says, I, who am speaking to you, am he.
And origin commenting on that recognizes that,
well, the Samaritans did have around this time
in the first century, a Messiah,
who is in many ways strangely comparable to Jesus.
But the interesting thing about that fragment,
and it is a fragment,
is that we don't have the complete text
of origin's commentary on the Gospel of John.
And this passage, or it's book 13 of origin's commentary
only was translated into English in 2006.
And that's three years after Wright wrote his book
on the resurrection and argued against cognitive dissonance.
So I don't know if he had access to this
when he wrote that book,
but here is the relevant passage
where Origen speaks about the Decythians.
He says, we must not fail to remark
that just as Jesus arose from among the Jews,
not only saying that he was the Christ,
but also demonstrating it,
so also a certain Decythias arose
from among the Samaritans
and declared that he himself was the Christ
who had been prophesied.
To this day, there are Decythians.
So to this day, Origen writing in the second century,
speaking about a group probably that existed
in the first century.
We don't know exactly when the Decythians were active
or when Decythias was alive,
but most scholars think it was in the first century.
To this day, there are Decythians derived from him
who bring forward books of Decythias.
And certain stories about him,
very similar to the Gospels,
describing how he did not taste death,
but is alive somewhere.
So for this group, they continued,
despite their Messianic founders' death,
they continued to believe that he was the Messiah,
and in order to believe that he was the Messiah,
they maintained that he didn't actually die.
That's pretty interesting,
and I mean, Origen recognizes how similar it is
to the claims that the early Christians were making,
and he makes that direct comparison between them.
But we also have to talk about John the Baptist,
because John the Baptist, most Christians
read about John the Baptist from the Gospels,
and so they assume John the Baptist was a prophet,
and he was a forerunner of Jesus,
but most critical scholars recognize
that the way that John the Baptist
is being portrayed in the Gospels
is there's an agenda going on in the Gospels
that is intentionally placing John the Baptist below Jesus,
and the reason that they are so invested,
I mean, and John three is a good example of this.
John three, you have on John the Baptist's lips saying,
oh, I must decrease, and he must increase.
The reason the Gospels are so interested in doing that
is because there were still followers of John the Baptist
after his death, and we have evidence.
Joel Marcus has a phenomenal book on John the Baptist
called John the Baptist in History and Theology,
and he, in the first several chapters of that book,
argues really persuasively going into
the Clementine literature in the third and fourth century
and shows how some followers of John the Baptist
continued to believe in him, not just as a prophet,
but as the Messiah.
They believed that John the Baptist was the Messiah
and that Jesus was not the Messiah,
and they were in direct competition
with the early Christians into the third and fourth centuries.
And I mean, that raises the question like,
how could they believe that he was the Messiah
even though he had died?
And that points us back to the Gospels
and some of those strange passages in the Gospels
where some people mistake Jesus for John the Baptist
and they think, you know, some people thought
that Jesus was John the Baptist, risen from the dead.
And it's speculative, but there are scholars who argue
that the way that John the Baptist's followers
continued to maintain their faith in him
as the Messiah after his death
was by believing that he had risen from the dead.
You can't prove that, but we have next to nothing
to go on in all these sources.
And Christian apologists like to argue
that the only way that the early Christians
could have believed that Jesus maintained,
that Jesus's followers maintained belief in him
after his death, as the Messiah after his death,
was the resurrection.
How could they believe that he was a Messiah
unless he had risen from the dead?
Dead Messiah was no Messiah at all.
And so if that argument stands for Jesus,
doesn't it also stand for John the Baptist?
How could they maintain faith in him
as the Messiah after his death?
Maybe they believe that he rose from the dead.
That's speculative, but it's clear that they did believe,
followers of John the Baptist did believe
that he was the Messiah into the third and fourth centuries.
That is pretty well established.
And it seems that some people believed
that Jesus was John the Baptist,
risen from the dead.
And so there was a close association between them.
And I think those two examples of DeSithius
and John the Baptist show pretty clearly
that the claim that Wright makes
about first century messianic movements
and them not maintaining faith in their leader
after his death simply isn't true.
It doesn't have support.
I want to add icing to your cake
and then you can do the cherry on top
because I always get the gears going in your head.
Number one is thank you for two examples.
One I would say is really, really solid DeSithians.
Why is this Christian apologist, church father saying this?
What the heck?
You're not helping your case.
Don't you see the 21st century?
No, he doesn't.
So we're in the enlightenment phase looking and examining
and we have different values
that we're approaching this with than they did.
They didn't mind their cousins, cousin groups
and brother groups and sister groups looking like them
or even the fact as Justin Martyr points out
comparisons to the Zeus and sons of Zeus
and all that kind of stuff, no problem there.
But I don't want to get off topic to that.
I want to focus on this resurrection thing
because what you said nails something hard.
First thing I want to say is this.
Now I know why NT Wright really wants to emphasize
physical resurrection as a Jewish ubiquitous thing
and really wants to nail that because even if you granted
all this DeSithius thing, did he die?
It says he didn't taste death
and that meant he wasn't resurrected physically.
So no matter what you do, my friend,
he's going to wiggle out of this
because I don't think it's just a historian thing.
There's an apologetic and they're driven with an apologetic
because he needs that physical death resurrection Jewishness
as he's tried to make the case through and through.
But also what I find interesting is how much we don't know.
So what you do is you're just giving two examples.
We don't have a lot of stuff
and we don't know how many groups
thought their person was still alive.
We have this ax apologetic by the author who's saying,
look at all these other people, their movements have died out
but Jesus has survived and we have this.
It doesn't mention this DeSithius guy.
It doesn't mention possibly who knows how many other groups
are out there actually believing their person's not dead.
I say that to say, I think there's something interesting
about mystery that allows this to be the case.
So why did they?
The question would be like, why did the DeSithians
believe DeSithius never tasted death?
We don't know the answer to that
but I wouldn't be shocked if there was a curious mystery
of not knowing where he went,
not knowing how he got to where he went.
There is a missing body trope translation
as Richard C. Miller talks about
and when they go missing, it is assumed
they have become a God or they have become deified.
Oftentimes, even Jehovah's Witnesses,
I think one side of the Jehovah's Witnesses,
one of the Seventh Day Adventists,
one of these cult type groups think
that one of the disciples is still alive today
because Jesus said,
some of you standing here will not taste death.
John 21 talks about this guy who never dies.
So they hold this idea that one of them is not alive.
Well, they have no way to falsify it
so it can stay alive because it's not falsifiable.
In the earliest gospel we have in Mark,
you have the disciples flee.
They do not stick around
when Jesus is handled by the Romans.
Once they have him in the kangaroo case
and it's over, they're off the scene.
They're like, they're not watching what's happening.
So Jesus gets killed.
They have no way of knowing what is going on with him.
Of course, the story paints that he's buried in a tomb
but it's mysterious.
It leaves room for who knows what.
So I wanna give one other example
that I thought was interesting
and I brought this up to you in the book of Revelation.
John Dominic Crossin points this out in his work,
talking about Render and the Caesar that
which is Caesar is the name of the book.
It's a really good book.
In Revelation, he highlights some really interesting things
about the Mark and the Beast, the 660 and six.
This idea about the sibling oracles playing a role
in the knowledge of this author
in their writing against Rome.
And in it, even in the sibling oracles
as well as hints that here in this Revelation
that Nero is gonna take a fatal wound.
Nero dies but does not stay dead, comes back.
And the Nero Redivivus Smith of a man who was dead
is alive again and is gonna lead an army.
The Parthians, the Romans feared
what might happen to that.
The Jews were hoping, at least these ones
were particularly hoping, come on,
bring the Parthians to destroy them.
Some of them feared that they themselves
would be destroyed in it.
There's just a, it's never one stop shop, right?
But the fact that they honestly believed
and there's like two or three historical imposters
because the myth was so prevalent
that there were men who claimed to be Nero
actually running in and like people were convinced,
oh my God, it's Nero and they got arrested
and put to death and stuff like that.
Like, that's a big deal that there are people
actually thinking that like, hold on, Nero, Nero's alive.
Why would they, like, doesn't this speak
of the superstition of the time
that they think here's a guy who was dead.
Nobody saw him get killed.
It's documented in some of the historians
that he may have committed suicide.
There may have been a wound to the head.
Someone might have assassinated him.
We don't know how Nero died.
Mystery.
Mystery creates hypotheses
and hypotheses that are superstitious ones at that.
So here you have this Jesus guy.
Here you have this DeSithius guy.
Here you have John the Baptist.
And notice, even in the gospels,
whether you think this is a good account or not
for what you're saying,
notice it's like he doesn't know there's a mystery here.
This guy looks like John the Baptist.
Well, hold on, I thought we put this guy to death
but Herod obviously didn't see him maybe get killed?
Who knows?
Maybe it's an echo of something of a memory?
I don't know.
But it's an interesting, again, another mystery.
And he wants to pin the tail on the donkey here
and go, that might be John the Baptist,
but he's dead, maybe he's back.
This seems to be telling us about the ideas
in the air at the time.
Yeah, absolutely.
And it's very clear in Revelation that Jesus is,
there is a parallel, a contrasting parallel
between Nero and the Nero Radivis met the beast
and the writer on the white horse
and the armies of heaven that he leads.
And there's a clear parallel and contrast there,
which, I mean, in the kind of anti-imperial
or anti-Roman empire vision of Revelation
is clearly combating that Roman imperial propaganda
and it is pulling on that Nero Radivis myth
and kind of using it for its own ends.
So that myth was alive and well
and the early Christians were impacted by it.
So, I mean, they were definitely in dialogue with that stuff.
Another point though about Wright's argument,
I mean, because he specifically cites Josephus
and we've talked about this before,
but he says, you know, first century Jews
seem to have been more hard-headed
than 20th century flying saucer devotees.
That's what Wright says, is they were more hard-headed.
Cognitive dissonance doesn't seem to have been a factor
for those first century Jewish messianic movements.
And he says, we don't see much evidence
of cognitive dissonance in Josephus.
And he's obviously, he's speaking of Josephus' account
of the Jewish wars and his account
of the different messianic movements,
Simon Barghiora in the revolt of 66 to 70.
But what's really ironic about him citing Josephus specifically
is that the whole point, Josephus' whole apologetic point
in writing his Jewish wars,
in writing his antiquities of the Jews
is to present a version of Judaism
which has been revised and made palatable to a Roman audience.
He is trying to smooth out those tensions
between Rome and Judaism and make Judaism respectable.
But in doing that, Josephus talks about a lot of the,
you know, superstitions that the Jews had
in believing that a Messiah was coming
and that he would deliver them
and how those beliefs, those messianic beliefs
fueled the revolt that led to the Jewish wars.
But then he says, what they didn't understand
is that the prophecies that they were clinging to
about an anointed king weren't actually
about Simon Barghiora or any other
of these Jewish would-be messias.
Those prophecies were actually about Vespasian.
They were actually about the Roman emperor
and he is the anointed king.
And so even in Josephus, you see his whole work,
there is an apologetic interest in reinterpreting
the prophetic traditions that he has inherited
and making them viable in the new world that he was living in
where the temple had been destroyed
and the previous expectations that he held to were dashed
and he was finding a way to maintain faith
in a revised expanded new Judaism
that could survive, that was viable in a situation
where his previous faith could not survive.
And that also, I think, points out another thing
about Wright's argument is that he seems to have
a pretty shallow view of cognitive dissonance
because he talks about it as if the go-to response
of people in responding to failed expectations
is simply to double down.
So they simply double down and cling to faith
in spite of the fact that prophecy has failed.
And he says that doesn't describe the early Christians
because they weren't expecting Jesus to die
and they weren't expecting one man,
they weren't expecting the Messiah to rise
prior to the general resurrection.
And so because they weren't expecting that,
this was a surprising new belief
and cognitive dissonance doesn't predict that.
And that's a pretty gross error.
That's a pretty big misunderstanding
of what cognitive dissonance actually predicts
because Leon Festinger in his book,
A Theory of Cognitive Dissonance from 1957,
goes into responses to dissonance
and one of the primary ways that people respond
to dissonance is by adding new cognitive elements,
things that they didn't previously hold to be true,
but they're rationalizations.
It's bringing new information on board
in order to shore up the core of your previous beliefs.
But reinterpretation, rationalization,
things that you didn't previously believe,
things that you didn't previously expect,
but things that help you maintain faith
in spite of the failure of your previous expectations.
And it's that rationalization,
that reinterpretation point that Wright doesn't seem to get.
But I mean, you can look at any number of examples
of failed prophetic expectations
in the way that groups maintain faith.
I mean, the Campingites, they weren't expecting,
prior to May 21st, 2011,
they weren't saying that that date
would mark the beginning of God's judgment.
They weren't saying that it would mark a heavenly coming
where the doors, the gates of heaven close
and the offer of salvation is no longer available,
but that Jesus hasn't actually come physically.
No, they were saying it was the physical,
second coming, the big climactic end of all things.
And they reinterpreted that.
Same thing if you're talking about the Jehovah's Witnesses
or the Seventh Day Adventists
or the followers of Sabatizevi,
in all of those cases,
they radically reinterpreted their previous expectation
and said things after the fact
that they never would have imagined saying beforehand.
And so that argument that the followers of Jesus
weren't expecting him to rise
in advance of the general resurrection,
just completely misunderstands
what dissonance theory actually claims.
