There are hundreds of videos that haven't been launched on YouTube, on Patreon. Make
sure you guys join the Patreon to help us grow. We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision
podcast. Your host, Derek Lambert. We're going to talk about Jeremiah, Daniel,
fellow prophecies in the Bible with a good guess that we've already had on. But before we do,
guys, I got the merch. Check out the link down in the description if you guys want to rock it.
I've also got the We Are MythVision on the back. Anyway, I'm excited about that. I just got that
done in Teespring and you guys can check that out down in the description. I really, really
appreciate that. So with that being said, I have Jim Majors joining. What's going on, brother?
Man, just same old saying, trying to... Well, I've already submitted my dissertation for...
I've already submitted it to the committee for their approval. And if they approve it,
then I go on to defend it orally and officially. And hopefully, I will be graduating this semester.
Dude, that's awesome. So he is obviously up and coming PhD candidate in Oklahoma and
fingers crossed, he passes the dissertation. Is there a way you can give us a hint of what
your dissertation is on? Yeah, absolutely. It's on the book of Daniel, but more specifically,
it is on the methodology behind the composition of it. And so, as most people know,
the majority of biblical scholars believe that Daniel was in its final form composed
in the second century BCE during the anti-Keyman crisis. So between 167, 164, about 165 is what
most scholars believe it was composed. So some of the text is older. In chapters two through six,
there's a lot of older text. In chapters nine, there's a prayer that's quite a bit older.
But chapter seven through 12 is different. Chapter seven through 12 has all the hallmarks of
a second century BCE document. It's basically a pseudopigraph. It's written in the name of somebody
else by somebody who's not that person. Interesting. And I'm sure it gets really complex, what you
argue. And I'll be obviously interviewing you at some point. Once you argue your dissertation,
I'm sure we can do a presentation of it if you'd be interested on the show, because I love this
kind of stuff. Yeah. I was going to say, essentially, what I had to highlight that,
just so people would get what my dissertation is about, because I theorize why these certain texts
were selected and not other texts, and for what purpose they selected these texts for.
Interesting. He's diving deep. I can't wait to do that. I gave you a call the other day,
and I was like, look, man, I'm sorry, we can't half-ass deal with these prophecies. We cannot
play around with these prophecies. I told you that I was a full preterist. For those who don't
know, that means it's fulfilled in the past. But more than that, more than just the idea that I'm
full preterist, the majority of Christians believe that these prophecies have been or will be
fulfilled, as if they are some ongoing prophecy, and that the Bible would never have failed
prophecies unless it's a false prophet. But Daniel's not in that. Jeremiah's not in that.
Ezekiel, which I've had Dr. Joshua Bowen come on and show Ezekiel's failed prophecy. Of course,
I've got him hunting for other ones to do coming up shows that we can deal with. I figure we would
dive into Jeremiah, and you could present a straightforward, clear what's going on in the
mindset. If you don't mind, I want you to play the obvious, what we have here, but then break it
down for dummies like me and say, now listen, this is evidence. It didn't happen. They changed it to
say this, or they made it sound like, oh, well, because you didn't keep your end of the deal,
God is pushing it another hint, hint. It didn't happen kind of thing. Give us some of that stuff
as you describe these prophecies. Look, I don't want to tell you how to do your presentation.
I'm going to try not to try to not interrupt you, but I kind of want, I'm sure people will
understand that, but maybe you can break it down when something comes up. Bingo, don't you see it?
Just to let it flash in people's eyes, because dude, it might go right over their head, and they just
don't see what you're saying. So with that being said, Derek Lambert will remain silent and listen
to what you have to say. Thank you. Okay, so the passages that you're talking about in Jeremiah
are Jeremiah 25, 11 through 12, and Jeremiah 29, 10. And they say that the dominion of Babylon
will last for 70 years. And in 70 years, the Jews will be restored and Israel will be restored.
So historically, that is incorrect on all fronts. So Daniel had to come up with, or the author of Daniel
had to come up with some way by choosing these texts that reflected a time of persecution,
a time where they were taken from their land, you know, the Babylonian exile.
While they weren't in exile in the Maccabean era, where when the text was composed, they were
out of their, like they were, it was during a period where they were not allowed to
practice their religion, essentially. Circumcision was banned. The dietary laws were banned.
The, observing the Sabbath was banned. Pretty much anything that was Jewish was banned. So
while they weren't exiled, they were experiencing persecution from a Gentile force.
And this is, let me give, like, if you don't mind me prodding, just to kind of
clarify, this is actually the Maccabean, this is, let me repeat that, this is the Antiochus
Epiphanes time. Like, during that time, they were hard on the Jews and they weren't playing games.
But the author is playing off Jeremiah, and Jeremiah is older, if I'm not mistaken, but
not that much older. Or is it? Well, Jeremiah is a lot older than Daniel is. Now, there are some of
the chapters two through six, there are some texts there that seem like they might be from
a little after that period, but nothing around that same time. And we know that that is not an
author writing at that time, because they wouldn't make some of the mistakes and some of the historical
inaccuracies that they do in Daniel. For example, if Daniel 11, right off the gate,
if Daniel 11 was written by somebody at the time of Nebuchadnezzar at the time of the Babylonian
exile, then they would have not had made some of these mistakes. And Daniel 11, it says,
in the third year of the reign of King Jehoiakim of Judah, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon came to
Jerusalem and besieged it. And there are so many problems just right there. So the third year of
Jehoiakim starting out is 606 BCE. But in 606 BCE, Nebuchadnezzar wasn't the king of Babylon.
His father was Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar wasn't the king until 605. And he didn't
besiege Jerusalem in the third year of Jehoiakim either. There was no siege of Jerusalem during
the reign of Jehoiakim. He didn't begin the siege of Jerusalem until November, December of 598,
and didn't finish until 597, which leads to the final issue. If the siege of Jerusalem was in 597,
then it wasn't during the reign of Jehoiakim, but his son, Jeconiah, or Jehoiachen. And Daniel 11 not
only goes against extra biblical sources here, but it directly contradicts biblical sources.
So not just extra biblical, but it contradicts within the Bible itself. In 2 Kings 24,
over and over, it clearly states that King Jehoiachen or Jeconiah, the son of Jehoiakim,
was the king when Nebuchadnezzar besieged the city.
Let me get you centered, because you're about to lay your head on my shoulder.
Can you center a little bit? There you go. There you go. There you go. A little bit better.
Yeah, there you go. Yeah, you just had to sit up because you're about to lay your head on.
You're going to lay your head on my shoulder.
I've got one arm rest that's lower than the other one.
No, no, no problem. So this is powerful. We don't have to get stuck here,
but already whoever is piecing Daniel together, whoever's writing Daniel 11 and writing this
book, is probably using either other sources or is making up their own sources the best they can
to come up with this kind of intro?
Well, it's likely that Daniel is using two different sources, probably the
chronicler and second kings, and he's trying to harmonize the two, because they also contradict
each other. My best guess would be that he's trying to find some sort of happy middle ground
between the two. This never ends, bro. It harmonizes things like the key to every religion,
man. Let's make sure this thing works. Okay, so what is Daniel? Because I think before, man,
when we had you and Dr. Joshua on, you guys were starting in Jeremiah and then working
in the Daniel. I think it's great that you started at Daniel because Daniel is using this
Jeremiah text or at least the ideas in Jeremiah, and he's trying to create a prophecy, if you will.
He's borrowing old literature. You point out in chapters two through six, it's obvious older
stuff is put in here maybe to make it look like it fits with this. I don't know. Or maybe they just,
maybe I'll give them the benefit of the doubt and not say, this is all purposeful evil, but I'll
give it like honorary deceit. It's like, maybe he believes, let me use some of the stuff that I hold
sacred and use it into this text. I don't know. What are your thoughts? I mean, yeah, and I think
there's a lot of truth in that. I mean, they weren't the best record keepers. And at the time,
if it was indeed written in the second century BCE and the author was looking at these texts,
he would have no way to verify them because often one historical document was all that there was,
and he's had to take it at face value, or that any other document, any other source was
just not accessible at the time. For example, I don't think that Daniel had access to the
Babylonian Chronicles. So I don't think that he had access to some of the Babylonian literature
that, like some of the Cannaeiform tablets that give us the list of kings and things like that,
or he wouldn't make these simple mistakes. I don't know if he'd even be able to read them
if they're a cuneiform. You know what I mean? That's the interesting part too. It's like,
dude, this is great that we have this evidence now to back it up. So Daniel, what is Daniel
doing with this prophecy and how are these fell prophecies? Go ahead and tell us what,
build up the case and showing us where the issues lie. You've already pointed out,
contradictions are there, those need to be examined. So this was supposed to happen at a
time of peace, or supposed to end in a time of peace, in a time of the restoration of Jerusalem
and the destruction of Babylon, and yet here they are in the second century and they're
under persecution of a Gentile force again. So the author is looking back on Jeremiah and the
promise of God to restore the temple and to restore Jerusalem and restore the tribes and
everything like that. A bit not happening on top of that, just a way of reinterpreting it
as if he was indeed Daniel from that time period. It was a way of giving hope to his
fellow Jews who were under persecution, just saying, look, it's not too much longer,
like God is going to keep his promise. He is sovereign and he is going to restore Jerusalem
in the temple, so don't worry. That a noble lie, and it's okay, it's a noble lie. I mean,
I would do the same thing if I were them. If we were in the shoes, we'd do the same thing. We're
not knocking that. We're just trying to rip apart the hocus pocus that's been developed around this
and point out the humanity in this text. I think that's wonderful actually. So technically what's
going on is there's this guy who we don't really know who he is that's authoring these books,
writing it in a time during Antiochus epiphanies and the Gentiles are being
really, really ridiculously rough on the Jews for whatever reason. Not trying to lay complete
blame, but they themselves are, he's creating this narrative, playing it back in time a little over
70 years or so after Jeremiah where this guy Daniel exists and he's being mistreated and
then finally makes these predictions in the book about the times that the author's actually living
in at the moment as if that back two, three, four hundred years ago, they predicted this day would
come. You know that kind of thing. Right, because they had some way of explaining why these quote
unquote desolations of Jerusalem were not brought to an end, why the the anti-king crisis was going
on and they do this through a reinterpretation of the Jeremiah prophecies through these these
visions or these angelic revelations. They reinterpreted Jeremiah. So Jeremiah's initial
meaning is now kind of changed. Is that what you're suggesting? Right, right. Well, it's,
you know, the angel tells them, you know, it's, you know, no, it wasn't actually 70 years. You
misunderstood because in in Hebrew, the word for seven and the word for week, they use the same
consonants. And so basically the angel was saying, no, no, no, you just misunderstood. You didn't,
you didn't catch the deeper meaning. It was, it wasn't just seven sevens. It wasn't just 40,
it wasn't just, it wasn't just 70 years, but it was 770s. It was or 77s or 70 weeks of years.
So it was actually 490 years. So you just, you misunderstood that.
Okay, this gets to the, this gets to debate, right? This is where debates start happening.
And you have an opinion and I love that about you. So does Dr. Joshua. We talk all the time
about you, man. He's like, he's, he's going to be something. Let me tell you.
Man, he's awesome. I love Dr. Josh. He really is, man. And I love what they're doing. 490 years
from when and what, what the heck, man? I mean, like, you know what I'm talking about here? Because
Christians want to use this 490 for themselves. You got to leave a little 490 for everybody,
man. You know, everybody's got to have a little bit of that 490 somewhere in their own little
eschatology. So what's going on with the 490, man?
So you have to remember the, the 490 is split up into three separate parts. You've got the
seven weeks and then 62 weeks and then a final seven weeks. So the Christians lump in the seven
and the six and the 62 together and say, well, this is to whenever the, the Messiah is going to
be, be cut down is at the end of these, these 69 weeks. And then the one week is whenever
Jesus returns and they completely ignore the fact that there are other divisions. You know,
there's a 49 year division and then the next 62 week division. And the first one is whenever the,
the anointed priest is supposed to arrive and they don't talk about an anointed one being cut down
until the end of the 62 weeks. So really there's a 62 week span between what, what the prophecy says
an anointed, an anointed priest or the, the anointed prince arrives and whenever an anointed
one is cut down and they also insert the, these, these definite articles where there are not definite
articles. So they will instead of, instead of translating it as an anointed one, they will
say the Messiah. Sounds a lot better. Exactly. And they will, and they'll even capitalize Messiah,
you know, or instead of a prince or an anointed one, it's the anointed one or the prince. You
know, it's, it really points to Jesus and they take out or they ignore that the division, but
like I said, between the seven weeks and the 62 weeks and make it to where the arrival of the
Messiah and the Messiah being cut down is at the same time.
Interesting. So let me ask you this, because I know modern eschatology for Christians is like
that. They do a lot of this. Does the, the author of the Apoc, or the Apocalypse of John,
the book of Revelation, if you will, is he the guy who's already hijacking and misapplying this
stuff? Or, okay, so that's the guy that's making the big boo boo. Okay, guys, be looking out on,
watch out when you're reading the Apocalypse of John. John's just doing what Daniel was doing
to Jeremiah. Okay, he's doing his own little thing. Okay, so yeah, I just appreciate you
specifying that. And I think it's important too, on a starting date for when they should apply the
490, that's also disputed for bias reasons by Christians. You know, oh no, it had to start later
so that it fits Jesus' life in the first century. Can you go into that argument real quick?
Yeah, so Christians will, they usually claim that it started in 444. Why? Because it's the easiest
one to finagle, you know, to, to, to get in there. But in doing so, they have to,
sorry, my goats were going crazy.
What were we talking about again? 444, yeah, the Christians, they finagle that, yeah.
Yeah, so Christians use the, use 444 because it's the one that they can best finagle to arrive at
32 or 33, so somewhere around the time that, that Jesus was, was crucified.
And they have no solid grounds. They're backdating. They're kind of going from this and working back
490 years, right? Right. Or 400 and maybe not 490, but, right. Yeah, they, I mean, they, they are,
that's, they, they really are. That's, that's what they're doing. But in doing so, they, they
say that there was this prophetic year and that there were only 360 days in a year instead of 365.
And so it's going to be off by this amount of years, you know, because it didn't quite line up
with the, the crucifixion of, of Jesus, you know, the 400 and well, not the 490 years, but the,
the, the 483, the first, first two, two periods, because the, that was when he was cut off.
That's not 490 years. So, and Christians also can't explain, you know, what, what those last
seven years are, you know, and, and the, and the last seven years is what the focus of the
entire prophecy is, is over. You know, John, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The, the, the first two sections are
just, just, just build, just historical buildup. But the, the readers, the, the audience that these,
that the, the compiler of Daniel was, was compiling for and writing to would have seen this as, as
really significant, you know, because they were, they were living in this period, you know, during
these three and a half years where the, the, the abomination of desolation stood, you know, in,
in the temple, you know, the, most likely, you know, a statue or an altar, you know,
to another God, you know, maybe Zeus or Apollo, you know, something like that.
And, and we know through other texts, you know, like through, through Second Maccabees, for example,
that, that Antiochus, you know, would sacrifice pigs and things like that on, on the altar,
you know, to, to desecrate the altar and to defile it. And it would, it was referred to as the, the,
the, the abomination that makes desolate, because it makes, it made, made the temple to where it
was no longer a holy place. Dude, I wish I could just blow up bomb shells all over the screen,
because what you're saying so powerful, technically, just based on what you guys already heard,
I just want to dumb it down. What we have is Daniel is, or author of Daniel, is playing out this
thing that's happened back in the day, a little after Jeremiah, as though this is speaking of
the future times. And you know, when you get later in Daniel, eight, nine, 10, 11, to 12,
all those passages, you start seeing, oh snap, the one who makes desolate. Oh, that's anti,
because Epiphanes, oh, the kingdoms will split. Look at the statue and the vision and all these
things. It's clearly talking about their time. That seven year period is about their time. And
the Christians did the same thing, hijacking this. They want to use double fulfillment or
shadow and the real fulfillment, all this BS to try and come at the conclusion that this
applies to them in the first century, at least the authors of the New Testament. Whereas Christians
are doing the same damn thing again, hijacking the New Testament narrative to apply it to Donald
Trump. And you name it, like, I'm just giving you an example, though, not all Christians do that,
but to some moment in the near future or in our time, and they come up with some excuse to try and
keep this prophecy for now. And I wanted to say, if the seven weeks to the author of Daniel
are happening then in the lifetime of Antiochus Epiphanes and that audience, wouldn't you backdate
the 683 years before that as your starting date? Or 400, 483 years, sorry. Wouldn't you go backwards
483 years from the time around Antiochus Epiphanes instead of assuming what the Christians do or
am I wrong? Well, the Christians wouldn't necessarily think that. The Christians wouldn't
see it, wouldn't read it as, is it being needed to be counted back or anything like that. If you
were a reader at the time, and part of the audience that the author of Daniel's writing to, you
look at this as if it was happening right now. In 927, it talks about the one who makes a covenant
with many. The ruler who is the come that makes a covenant with the many. And they would, as an
audience member, you would have known about this alliance made between Antiochus IV and these
Hellenized Jews. You read about that in 1 Maccabees, 1 Maccabees 1. And he talks about, let us go and
make a covenant with the Gentiles around us. I guess what I was saying is that prophetic clock,
the 490 year prophetic clock, ignoring spending time on the Christians, just pointing out a
correct calculation for that author's use of the terms 490 or the 77s, you got to backdate it from
there. You can't go to the 1st century and start counting backwards and try to do 483 or 490. They
do that. Don't get me wrong, but you're stilling Daniel to try and make your own thing. And Daniel's
trying to backdate sometime just after Jeremiah. And what I'm getting at, I guess, and simple question
is, when do we start the 490? Is there a certain date you would say would best suit that starting of
that time? I mean, I would say that it would be at the edict by Cyrus. I mean, that's the only one
that I can think of that would be a good candidate. I think that's the one that Daniel,
the author would have been talking about, the one that they would have understood.
For one, if it was one of, like, say,
not, you know, if it was a later edict, you know, one of the ones from the 444, say, from Nehemiah
or Ezra, then the reader in the 5th or 6th century B.C. would have no idea what you're talking about,
because it hadn't happened yet. So they would have to wait for this declaration to be made for
this word to go out to rebuild Jerusalem. So in the context of the prophecy, that would mean nothing
to them. Right, it didn't happen. So really, the edict of Cyrus would be the best candidate,
just because it would be known by everybody else. So I guess my other question then would be, we
kind of touched on this before, was Daniel, author of Daniel, I'm just using Daniel as the author of
Daniel, because we don't even know if that's really his name. Do we have an idea of who might have
wrote this or not? No idea. Some Jew during the Maccabean era. Okay. I'm just going to refer to
this some Jew as Daniel, just so that we can not have to keep repeating whoever the author of Daniel
is. So Daniel is actually playing off Jeremiah. What's his intention? Is he trying to fix a problem?
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, essentially, the problem is these, these desolations in Jerusalem have not
been taken away, like, like God said, that they would at the end of the exile, that our, our,
we're still under Gentile oppression. So something is still going on.
So I mean, but Daniel at the same time acknowledges that Israel is still living in sin.
And so he does, you know, ask for mercy, you know, ask, ask God for mercy and, and, and everything
like that. So he doesn't ask for anything regarding the 70 years. At first, he just prays to, to God,
you know, just saying that, that he's sorry, you know, that Israel needs to repent and all this
other stuff. Just a plea, basically, plea for mercy. And then the angel Gabriel comes and,
and explains to him that it was just a big misinterpretation this whole time that you
guys just didn't understand. It wasn't 70 years. It was actually 490 years.
See, that's what always, that's what get, it kind of cracks me up a little, you know what I'm
saying? Like, and I get it. I mean, look, I'm not trying to knock people wanting to create hope.
But call it what it is, you know, when you say, look, my, my, my youngins right here,
he's peeking his head in. Say, hey, they can't see it. Say, hey, hey, what do you need, buddy?
I need sea salt. Okay. There should be some above the oven in there. Okay. That is recorded.
All right. Love you. Sorry about that. No, you're good. 490 seconds to figure things out too.
I'm just kidding. So Daniel is doing this. Jeremiah is making a prediction. Do we know
if Jeremiah was written, supposedly when it was written? I mean, is there a good reason to
believe that Jeremiah or at least this part of Jeremiah? Cause I love critical scholarship. I
love what you do. Like, dude, you'll tell me like Daniel one verse one was written in 563.
Daniel one verse two and a half is, you know what I mean? Like critical scholars don't play around.
You can tell when stuff's been tampered with. So I mean, as far as, so the character of Jeremiah
is said to have lived like in the late seventh century BCE. That's, that's like the, the, the,
the biblical character. But as far as like the, the text itself, I mean, definitely wasn't a product
of seventh century. If that's what you're asking. I just didn't know if it was written after the
supposed prediction of the time in which it's supposed to happen, that the 70 years is up.
I figured it would at least be between the window of when Daniel says after these 70 years,
you know, God's going to, you know, come in and redeem. You guys are going to roll, you know,
I think it was kind of an eschatological view. I think Jeremiah was thinking the same
end, like kind of like what Daniel's expecting this, we're supposed to rule the world. Now that
might have changed its meaning between the time of whoever wrote Jeremiah to the meaning of the
time of whoever wrote Daniel. But I asked that to say, why would the author write a Feld prophecy
if it was written after that? You see what I'm saying? Does that make sense?
You want me to repeat it? Yeah, just dumb it dumb it down. Okay. So if let me just make it
as simple. Imagine Jeremiah says by 500 BC, we're going to be, you know, we're going to be freed.
And he's supposedly writing it at 600 BC. There'd be no reason for him to have written this around
400 BC. After, if it fails, you see what I'm saying? Why would you write a flopped prophecy that
didn't happen? That's kind of my question is, when did Jeremiah make this claim that the 70 years,
and then that's it, God will come in and make things right? He couldn't have written it after
it, right? Right. So the Jeremiah that we read is different than the Hebrew text. So like if it's
developed from the from the Septuagint, then the that version, the Greek version is not as nearly
as long as the Hebrew version. And it's they, they have a different order as far as like the
contents of the text. But as far as like, when they were written, I mean, they were probably
written somewhere during the Persian period, potentially, probably, but probably later. I
don't think that it was the early Persian period. So but definitely not as as early as the 6th century,
7th century BC. I love that. That's how you know you're dealing with a scholar, ladies and gentlemen.
I want to yes, no, overthink everything. Yeah, you overthink everything because you're not telling
me the answer that I want, right? Because I'm a basic fundamentalist. That's that's how I roll,
man. You got to tell me I want to know the truth. The truth is no one knows when it was written.
Simple as that. We can guess we can have good reasons to propose certain ideas. And then I
respect and that response was wonderful. I really appreciate that. And I was pushing you too, dude.
I was trying to I was trying to press you on this. So tell me what's going on here, man. We've got
Jeremiah saying 70 years. After the 70 years, is this just a redemption of Israel getting back on
top? Or is this the end in the like, did the Jews think that God's going to have like this golden
phase where Israel is going to rain? What is the mindset in Jeremiah to Daniel? Is there an eschatology
that's supposed to happen? I mean, so essentially what you have going on here is the the prediction
of a a jubilee. So a jubilee, you know, is whenever the Jews are, you know, they're they're
thrown from the land to let it sit for for a period. And this happens, you know, every
well, every every 50, every 49 years is is one one sabbatical period, followed by the 50th,
which would be the jubilee. It's actually contested whether it's the 49th or the 50th. So but this
constitutes seven, the total of seven sabbatical periods, so it's seven sevens makes one one jubilee.
So and this is based on, you know, on Leviticus, like Leviticus 25, where it talks about,
you know, a jubilee, you know, for six years, you know, you shall work the land and on the
seventh, you will you will let it let it go, let it go free, or they're the the slaves.
And in Leviticus 25, when it talks about the the Hebrew ones shall be shall serve with you until
the year of the jubilee, and then they and they their children go free. So that was the the seventh
year jubilee. So the the 40 the 49 is just seven of those. And then 490 is
is 10 of those sabbatical cycles, 10 of those sets of seven sevens.
So it has kind of a dual meaning, you know, because the the 70 years was the period that the
the period of the Babylonian rule over over over the Jews, and the the the period that they would
be exiled from their from their land until they were allowed to to to return. So that's symbolic
in the the jubilee, that if you are taken into servitude, or if you're in a debt slave, you know,
a debt servant, whatever you want to call it, then at the end of those those seven years,
then you got to go free. And so this was that was a representation of of that. But at this,
at the same time, they are to be punished. And there's some biblical precedent for the
the punishment being seven times what the what the what the offense was, you know,
you get get in return seven fold, or you have to pay in return seven fold.
So if they, and that's if they aren't being obedient, that kind of stuff,
is that like they would have to pay back seven times if if they're
able to get up like what depends on what their their their offense was, you know,
like if you steal something, then you have to pay back seven fold, or you mentioned this is
like a Levitical priest type thing, which is common in this in this literature here, which,
you know, purity laws, doing things, you know, in a holy sense, very holy, it might be from the
priestly text, if I'm not mistaken, for those who know about the, you know, documentary hypothesis.
But I just ask that because are they ripping off some of this, these legal,
if you will, codes to apply it to this?
I wouldn't say no, I wouldn't say ripping off. I would say that they're using it because it's
it's familiar and it would it would have a lot of meaning. Because where where Jubilee meant a
return to your to your homeland from from from where you had you had been removed.
It wasn't necessarily a Jubilee because you had to have your your your freedom back as well.
So even though these people living during this during this this entire king crisis in the second
century, even though they weren't deported from their land like they were during the period of
Babylonian exile in the sixth century, they were still experiencing this this separation
from from their their traditional way of life and and traditional Jerusalem and and how how
Jews should be living. So under this Seleucid rule or this this this Hellenistic rule,
everything that made Jerusalem special was no longer permitted, it was no longer what was
actually penalized. And Jerusalem became just another another Hellenized city like like the
the rest of the the Roman world at the time. So where is the problem at, Jim? What are the
problems in this? I mean, it just I'm looking for failures, right? That's been the point
is like poking holes. But what what are some of the problems that we're we're having here?
So the problem, the biggest problem is also probably the biggest quote unquote blessing
in terms of a critical a critical assessment of the text, because it gives us a really accurate date.
In chapter 11, from verse 1 to verse 2 to verse 39, it's accurate. It's an accurate representation
of the the all the events happening during the anti-king crisis. Can you cover some of those
just to keep get people zeroed in on? What's that? Do you have some of those in the top of
your head that you could actually just spit off the top that supposedly happened? I mean,
that we're accurate? Oh, that that talk about the the the abomination of of desolation or
I don't want to pull my notes real quick. I do want to give you some
because I think that'll build up what you're trying to say. And then when all of a sudden plot,
you know, it's cool to let them know like this happened, this happened, this happened. But then
here's the problem. Right, right.
Okay, all right. So for for example, in chapter 11, in verses two through four,
it's describing the end of the the Persian Empire, the the rise and the fall of Alexander the Great.
And it it caused his empire to be divided into four regions. Right. And 11, five through six talks
about the king of the south. That's and the rise, the king of the south, that's that's told me the
first as and the, well, as well as a solusus, solusus the first was the ruler over Syria at the
time. Then it says the daughter of the king of the south. Well, that was Baranis, the daughter of
Ptolemy the second. She married Antiochus the second in 252 BC. And the as Daniel calls the offspring
of her and Antiochus were killed in 246. And 117 through nine talk about how Ptolemy the third
who is Baranis's brother, the daughter of the king of the south, how how he and the the branch
from her roots, quote unquote, attack the solusive kingdom who Daniel calls the fortress of the king
of the north. And they won that was 241. And it describes how solusus the second who they call
the king of the north tried to invade the Ptolemy kingdom. 10 through 13 talks about how how
the sons of solusus, solusus third, Antiochus the third, how they continued against the quote
unquote king of the south told me the fourth and told me eventually defeats Antiochus in 217.
But like Daniel says, due to his pride, told me the fifth was defeated by Antiochus in 198.
Then it talks about how in verses 14 through 19, how the the the lawless among your people who were
the the Jewish supporters of Hellenization, how they joined forces with Antiochus and fought against
the the the Ptolemy's. And so in 200 BC, Antiochus defeated the Ptolemy's and caused some of their
forces to go into like Jerusalem side on some other cities. And he conquers a Roman general.
I'm sorry, he is, he tries to conquer these these other regions. But he's killed by a Roman general
who Daniel calls a commander in 187, a guy named Lucius Scipio. And verses 20 through 28 talk about
the reign of solusus the fourth, it says within a few days he shall be broken. He didn't reign very
long at all. And it says that someone will obtain the kingdom through intrigue. And Antiochus the
fourth, Antiochus Epiphanes, he obtained the kingdom, the solusive kingdom, he through by usurping.
Um, he he killed the high priest, uh, priest, uh, Onias the third, who Daniel calls the prince of
the covenant. Um, the next year he invades Egypt. And on his way back to Syria, he's upset and but
hurt about, uh, getting his, getting his butt kicked. We're actually about getting betrayed.
And, uh, he attacks Jerusalem and Daniel says in verse 28, I believe he says that his heart will
be set against the holy covenant. Um, 29 through 35 talk about how Antiochus, um, tries to invade
the solusive, uh, the solusive kingdom. Um, but is stopped by the quote unquote ships of Cateen,
who are the, the, uh, the, the Romans or the Roman representatives. Um, and then Antiochus
attacked Jerusalem in 168 and which is where he entered the temple, uh, set up the statue. Uh,
he set up the abomination that makes desolate. Um, which also first Maccabees one talks about.
Um, and then it says that the people who are loyal to their God shall stand firm and take
action, which is talking about the, uh, the, essentially the, the Maccabean, uh, revolt, um,
started with, uh, Matthias and, and, and his sons, um, being the first person to actually
stand up to these, uh, these, uh, solusive forces, uh, well, uh, to standing up to Antiochus. Um,
and 36 through 39 are the last verses that are historically accurate in chapter 11.
And they just talk about how awful Antiochus is and that he has no respect for Yahweh, um,
and no respect for his gods. And then verses 40, um, through chapter 12, um,
it's the, the, this was, this is what is supposed to be a prophecy that this is what was a mystery
to the audience at the time. 1140 through verse through chapter 12, uh, somewhere in the middle
of chapter 12, they had no idea what was, what was going to happen. Um, all they could see is that
it seems that he's writing in the sixth century and it seems that he is accurate all the way up to
this point. So why wouldn't he keep being accurate? But the problem is, is that's when the prophecy
dies off. And that's what gives us the date of 165, 164, uh, BCE. Um, that's, uh, that's, uh,
right at the years after Antiochus attacked, uh, Jerusalem and the years that it stops becoming
accurate. Um, like when it talks about where he would die, um, when he would die, uh, the,
the actual return of, of, of God, the, the fulfillment of the promise that he would
restore Jerusalem. Well, it hasn't been restored. So that's obviously incorrect. Um, and the earliest
Christians interpreted this as meaning Antiochus, um, as well, but they just saw a huge gap, um,
that would, that would end at, at Jesus or at the, at the, the second coming of Jesus. Um, so that,
I mean, they, they interpreted certain chapters these ways as well. Um, but parallel chapters
they might interpret a different way. Early church fathers like, yeah, uh, like, uh, Tertullian, uh,
um, Augustine, Hippolytus, um, uh, Origin, um, yeah. So give me an example if you don't mind of,
like, you, you were giving us an example, just kind of give us an example more on that. So you're
saying that, um, from Daniel's day, do they acknowledge that this stuff didn't happen or
they don't, they just act like Daniel was correct in his understanding or do they realize that there
was, it didn't happen. There wasn't a restoration of Jerusalem and stuff like that, but that was
because it's talking about Jesus. I mean, what? So the, the early disagreement, uh, stemmed from
this, this pagan philosopher, um, named, uh, named Porphyry, who, uh, it was in the, the second
century sometime in the mid to late second century, um, CE, uh, writing a commentary on Daniel, um,
identifies and Antiochus as this, this person being mentioned in this text and also, um,
identifies the accuracy. Um, he, he, he notices the accuracy up to 11, first 39. And then from
1140 on, it's, it's, uh, it's inaccurate. And that's how he also dates it to the time of Antiochus
IV. But the disagreement wasn't whether or not it was talking about Antiochus IV or about Alexander
the Great or, or any of that. Um, the, the main controversy, controversy was the claim that
it was written in the second century instead of the sixth century. So the, most of the
disagreements didn't stem around the identification of the, of the, uh, of Antiochus, but about the,
the alleged dating of it. Interesting. So the dating is a problem and we pointed out,
obviously there's issues here. Uh, the dating does point to a newer book. It's not, uh, it's not as
old as you think, but in what way do they apply Daniel to Jesus or do these early church fathers
not really try to do that because I know lots of Christians want to double down or double
fulfill, double prophecy, that kind of stuff. But the resurrection, there's a lot of people who
want to take that resurrection theme and apply that to the general resurrection that Christians
want to use. Um, what do you do with that? You know? Well, so, I mean, Christians essentially,
in order to make this fit, they had to do a lot of damage control. Um, it, it'll either conflict
with datings of Jesus's birth or of his, uh, crucifixion or of earthquakes or lunar eclipses
or solar eclipses or, however they interpret it, that's the thing about it. However they interpret
it, it, it, it means giving up something else, uh, you know, giving up the accuracy of, of another
claim. Um, you know, Christians look at Daniel as pointing to, uh, to Jesus, um, but they can't
explain what the significance of the three and a half years that the, uh, the, the abomination of
desolation stands in the temple, um, or of the other three and a half years that end in the
return and the, the judgment of the Gentiles. Um, so I mean, there's, um, you know, they, they, they
can't explain all of Daniel within the context of their explanations. Um, if they use 444,
they can't explain what the first, uh, what the first 49 years meant or what the following, uh,
the following 63 weeks meant, or 62 weeks, um, excuse me.
Or a lot of people say we're on a pause right now and the last seven years hasn't started yet.
You know, like we're in this little pause area and they're still trying to postpone and what's
going to happen in some contemporary to the 20th, 20th, 21st century have done this to try and say
the seven weeks or the seven years, um, have happened, uh, you know, or they're happening
and there, there's date setters that have fell time and time again, still using this book.
So I guess my whole intention was maybe different than yours in this episode and that was me to
just try to like, you know, put the book down guys, you know, like stop trying to read it. Don't
get me wrong, but quit playing games. Like look, look at it for what it is. Stop trying to run
and look at passages like here's an example. Uh, his name shall be called Emmanuel. Okay.
And applying that to Jesus. That's what Christians did, but you are literally ripping off the
contemporary meaning to the author who wrote and his name shall be called Emmanuel. You're,
you're hijacking and I know Pescher was a common tool, you know, midrash and things like that
were used to come up with these methods and whatnot. But, um, people are doing that in
the tarnful man, like waiting for the rapture, the end, the fear of all that kind of stuff,
apocalypse. If you don't believe you're going to end up going to this place, don't worry,
punishment's coming. Like what? You know, that's just no, no good man, no good. And I just wanted
to get you to poke holes at Jeremiah and Daniel and kind of show, I call it poking holes, but
really it's just illuminating what's going on deeper than what you're just read your Bible.
Like you're looking at multiple sources. Like when you were quoting, um, in Daniel 11, two through
39, showing, Hey, this is what happened. You're not just saying that because, well, Daniel says this,
no, there are extra biblical literature and a lot of the sources are from the enemy.
You know, purporting this idea and showing that this is accurate, that this is really what happened.
And then all of a sudden you go south right after that. So I just appreciate you
illuminating that. Is there anything you'd like to add that I haven't said?
Yeah. I mean, I didn't have to poke holes in anything. I mean, the holes were already there.
I just took the duct tape off. That's really all I did.
That was actually really a great point. Wow. I was going to use the term holy, but you know,
it's, yeah, that works. It's enough. Yeah. That's enough. I think you've done enough damage here,
my friend. You can go off and put your cape on. And I'm just, dude, seriously though,
I really want to hear your dissertation when you get done and you actually graduate. I think
you're going to do a great job, man. I seriously do. When you do, I like to hear your dissertation
on the channel. Bring your paper. Let's get graphs up. Let's pull images and do something deep.
I'd like to hear what you have, man. Yeah. I mean, probably going to have to just do
maybe just parts of it or just really summarize it, but yeah, definitely.
I think so because how long is it going to take you to present this? Oh, hours.
Yeah. Well, you guys let me know what you think in the comment section. And Jim,
you still have the YouTube channel, correct? Yep, sure do. YouTube.com slash
Jim majors. Yeah. Are you still running it? Are you still like doing things on it?
I am starting to do it again. Yeah. Trying to get back in the run of things. Just
spend a crazy time with school and everything. I got you. Go down in the description. Make
sure you guys subscribe to his channel. He's going to bring more content and Jim majors is known to
do quite a bit of debating online. He's done a lot of debates with Christians mainly, but I'm sure
you're open to debate people on different topics over time. Mainly the Christians though. You have
a lot of fun with that. So, yep. And you talked about Christian martyrdoms. If you haven't seen
the shows we've done with him before, go check him out, but show him some love in the description
and check out his channel. Like the content. Give him some words of encouragement. If you
want to see him pill back some duct tape again, let me know because I always enjoy having Jim
on the show, man. Jim, thank you so much, bro. Thanks, man. Always have a good time. Thanks.
You too, man. And we got to do another collab, bro. I'm going to have to bring you and Dr.
Josh on and do something again, dude. That was fun. Yeah, for sure. Awesome. And don't forget,
we are Mithvision.
I have hundreds of videos on the Patreon. Become a Patreon and get early access to everything
I ever launched. Join the Twitter. I've got a Discord chat room. You guys can help grow the
community. One-time PayPal or Cash App. If you want to help us out with a donation and join our
Facebook groups, man, let's make this thing happen.
