We discuss God, God's origins. We talk about all sorts of stuff here on myth-vision pertaining to
being a very human development on myth-vision. And I've noticed that a lot of people are curious
about the origins of Yahweh. And at the end of the day, there's a lot of like question marks.
We just don't know too, too much. You just read your Bible there. Exactly. And if you look in
Exodus chapter 3, I mean, it makes it very clear who Yahweh is and where he comes from.
I mean, at least from the perspective of that source, you know.
Yeah, of course. Right.
And that's truly a divine source. So I should just take it at face value. As far as some of the
elements we find about the characteristics, if you will, that Yahweh has is like a storm deity.
He has some attributes you find in other common ancient Near Eastern deities.
I remember reading God and Anatomy right here actually. I love the there's certain attributes.
I think I might even turn to the page here. Let's see if it's there already saved. But in this
wasn't it here. Long story short, the goddess Anana traveled from her temple to Urruk to Nippur
in the hope of arousing inlil, feigning my father feigns, lying down. She cried, may I
soothe his heart? May I pacify his liver? May I direct my words to his distressed heart sitting
on his lap? She sings him awake with the refrain. Oh, sleeping one. How long will you sleep?
Anana's lament was considered so powerful that her cult singers recited it in her temple
at Urruk on the seventh day. And of each month. Don't know why I stopped to emphasize that.
In the hope of appeasing the gods for an unknown misdemeanor which might prompt untimely or
simulated sorry slumber, precautionary measures were only sensible discerning the difference
between a sleeping God and a sulking God was not always easy. Many centuries later in the sixth
century BCE, Yahweh's worshipers were singing petitions to awaken him to the devastating aftermath
of the Babylonian attack. Rouse yourself. Why do you sleep? Oh Yahweh awake. Do not cast us off
forever. And that's God's sleeping which might be a common thing in the ancient world. I find the
seventh day thing kind of interesting as well. I wonder why that ever come up in Pat's debate with
the seventh day week. Hey, it has to be consecutive. Continuous. It can't be interrupted by intercalendar
days or whatever. We got to put certain rules to say how it's so unique. But my point is like
there's lots of attributes. You can go to the ball cycle and you can find balls, the storm,
who's a warrior God. I think yeah. I mean the point maybe the point to start here is that by
within the text that the Bible that we have Yahweh just has all the attributes. But this is like
this is looking back from this post destruction, this post Babylonian perspective where the people
who wrote and collected these texts have now in some respects been internationalized. They've
been exposed to like new ideas and these new perspectives. But one of the very difficult
things in trying to understand who Yahweh is like getting underneath all that. How do we mine
these texts to get back to where Yahweh came from? I mean unless you're going to accept that
he showed up in a burning bush in Exodus chapter three and introduced himself, not as Yahweh but
as Eche. But yeah, it's really, really complicated. So you know, he's a storm God. It seems in the
early texts, I mean he's similar I think to what we read of Ba'al in the Ugarite texts. And this
is where scholars have tended to go in their appraisals and their evaluations of who Yahweh was
and where he came from. But there's so much that we just don't know. Yeah, and I think it's important
to be able to distinguish between, as you know, Kip was pointing out, like looking at how the Hebrew
Bible tries to work through later conceptions and maybe rework texts and traditions in order to
bring those things into alignment. And what happened in early Israelite religion. So when
you have Yahweh with this, you know, consort, Shaira, like this is a real thing, right? And
one of the things that I do think is important to point out is these types of later understandings
and polemics that we find in the Hebrew Bible that play off of Babylonian mythology, certainly
Ugaritic ideas, mythologies. So, you know, for example, looking at how Genesis one interacts
with the Enuma Elish and concepts that you find in there. And not only is it important to recognize
that it is dependent upon and interacting with the Enuma Elish, which, for those that may not know,
is the text that comes from, you know, probably the late 2nd millennium, but goes throughout
new Assyrian or Assyrian history and Babylonian history, the new Babylonian empire, it becomes the
or was the center of the Akitu festival. And it was every New Year's this thing got recited
and in some ways like acted out. And but it was a focus. And if you look at how the text of Genesis
one interacts with the Enuma Elish, it does so in such a way that it demythologizes this battle
with the sea concept, where in Enuma Elish, Marduk is coming at Tiamat, who is overpowered and is
terrifying the gods and takes Tiamat down, creates the world through her dead carcass, you know,
whereas we do see the actual battle in places like what Psalm one and four and other places in the
Psalms here in Genesis one, it's demythologized to the point that it's just, you know, Tiamat isn't
even really mentioned with this sort of direct this specific reference to Tiamat, but instead it
uses this word to home, which fine, you know, is found in many creation contexts and battle with
the sea context, but it's playing off of this Semitic word Tom to for the for the sea, which is
what Tiamat comes from. So again, it's all sort of, you know, the creatures that we find that are
created by Tiamat, that she and her consort, Kingu are standing beside and fighting with
their their demythologized, now the Tanim, Tanimim, or, you know, just just these little things that
Yahweh plays within the sea or yellowing plays within the sea. And I mean, it's not quite that,
you know, but there are these things that's just, you know, it's not that Marduk's, you know, wind
has to confront Tiamat in the face to, you know, fill her up so that he can destroy her. Instead,
you know, the spirit of, you know, the wind of Elohim, it just broods over the sea, right. And so
at any rate, it's probably going way too deep. But like, I feel like it's important to recognize
that in passages like Genesis one, and as we can talk about like Deuteronomy 32, Psalm 82,
like these are texts that are engaging with the tradition that ancient Israelite or early
Israelite religion had, but doing so in a way that brings it into alignment without sort of just
completely supplanting it, which allows us to sort of, you know, peer back behind the cloak and to
see what's actually back there. Probing into Yahweh's dad, El, who's really Yahweh later.
Weird how it works. Right. What if I asked you to flip the question on the origins of Yahweh to
the origins of El? Do we have a better idea of the origins of El than we do on the origins of
Yahweh? Or are you not really so sure on that one either? Yeah, I mean, I think El is difficult
because it's primarily seen in the Ugaritic pantheon. And while we have lots of texts from
Rashamra, you know, ancient Ugarit, they're really coming from essentially one time period, right,
in the 14th, 13th century. And so like, I don't know that we have this, not that I know of,
have this long tradition where we can like go back because Canaanite, Canaanite mythology,
I think, is going to have some connections, obviously, with like Mesopotamian, the Mesopotamian
pantheon, but it's going to also be distinct from it. And I don't know. Somebody like Mark Smith,
obviously, would be a great resource to get at that. But yeah. But of course, you know,
El is the head of the pantheon, has like the 70 sons. And so like this is where, you know, Ba'al
and Anat, and like these, you know, these figures sort of fall underneath, but creates this very
interesting dynamic that we see in places like the Enuma Elish, the same sort of thing where you
have a younger deity who's somehow supplanting, being allowed to or not allowed, but like is elected
to rule over them, but yet still not diminishing the senior deities. It's a very interesting dynamic
in the pantheon. You guys just want to sin. Yes. Okay. Yeah, I can tell. Just, you know,
hang on, I got to suppress the truth. And I'm just going to say, okay, got it. Okay. So since you've
suppressed the truth and righteousness, we can tell them like, you guys just made all that up.
Yeah. And really, what really is going on is like, there are no real other gods and like,
there's only one and it's El Yahweh, which is the same guy. Sorry. Well, same God. So pretty much
we're looking at is, if we want to understand, I guess to ask you both as experts who are looking
at the world in a bigger picture, you're not just zeroing in on the Bible, how much can we learn?
This is a very generic question, but how much can we learn by reading around the Bible about
the God, the attributes, the religion, the practice? Like I asked this because as a fundamentalist
that I was, I still am. Don't tell anybody because they can't hear that. But as a fundamentalist,
I read my Bible because I practically worship the book. And as I started reading outside of my
Bible, learning about stories like Romulus, we talked about last night at dinner, or different
things that started getting fascinating, you're like, whoa, there's other people who got ascended
in clouds well before Jesus and like, cool things like that. So what would you say about that
generic question and go wherever you want with your suppression of the righteousness of God?
So it kind of raises, I got into a discussion disagreement with a guy on Twitter
what some months ago, some months ago. And, you know, this is sort of, he wanted to take
this perspective of the biblical text where, yes, we have all this, all this surrounding
ancient Near Eastern literature, and it's useful in so far as we can see how the Bible
is teasing out some of the same ideas and some of the same terms of phrase and the language
and stuff helps us understand the text of the Bible, but still had very much this
perspective that the Bible's a special book. So anywhere where it looks like,
you know, where it looks like what's going on in these ancient Near Eastern texts,
you kind of, you can go to this point and say, yeah, it's just using the language and stuff,
but still maintaining this perspective of the text that it's somehow unique, right?
And I think, like, I responded at one point to this guy where I was like,
you can't learn about what's inside the Bible without actually taking a look at what's going
on around it. I mean, it just ends up becoming the circular exercise of using the Bible to
interpret the Bible doesn't it's such a close circle that ever come to learn anything or to
see anything that might be there, right? I just, yeah, it's the other literature is super, super
important because it helps us to contextualize this stuff. Yeah, I mean, I think I guess the
comparison I would make is I always go back to music. So there's a difference between, like, if
you see if I can do this, like, if you turn on Kenny Chesney and listen to some songs, and then
you listen to like Trace Adkins, you know, or some other country singer, I can't not really do
it too well here picking up country music. I'm not sure who they are. Can you sing us Elvira? No,
okay, that's somebody different. But so the views just like dropped instantly.
But no, like, you could say that listening to somebody who's singing country music,
you have a similar genre, or you have the same genre, right? And the songs can kind of sound
the same. And you, you know, you have similar terms of phrase like my dog died or my truck won't
start, you know, but sorry, that wasn't fair. But but that doesn't mean that Trace Adkins is
pulling from or something. Kenny Chesney, right? It's just because they're pulling from sort of
stock phraseology part of the genre. Okay, so that's one type of it's not dependence necessarily
upon one song upon another, but upon the stock phraseology of the genre. Okay. However, if you
go and I always use him, but if you go to somebody like Eminem, and you have Eminem, who is the song
about you, I think is what it's called. Yeah, I can't remember I love you because you remind me
of me as well as remind me. And it's clearly not just pulling from stock, you know, rap phraseology
or something, but it's utilizing Joan Jett's I Love Rock and Roll, right? And so there's no way
to truly understand what Eminem is doing. It can be an enjoyable song to listen to. If you don't
know Joan Jett's I, you can understand it on a certain level. But if you're trying to get, you
know, deep into what it is that he's doing with reworking and polemicizing and whatever,
you have to be able to understand that it's pulling from and reworking Joan Jett's I Love Rock and
Roll. And so these are the two different ways, and there's a spectrum, of course, that ancient texts
work with one another and against one another and in light of one another. And so if what
apologists want to try to do when it comes to the Bible is to try to go toward the Kenny Chesney
Trace Adkins, you know, and well, it's just a stock phraseology, you know, you just have ancient
Near Eastern motifs and themes. Yeah, that's true. That does happen a lot, right? Because they're all
writing from the same world, right? In the same mindset, types of mindsets. But that doesn't mean
that you can then say it all functions that way, right? And you do have polemics, you do have
intentional reworkings, you do have the Psalm 68, you know, where the writer of the clouds is now
no longer Baal, but it's Yahweh, right? So I think we have to be able to come at it from both
perspectives. This is a really demonic thing you just said. So I love it. And so, being funny,
Michael Jones does that, which you're describing a lot. And he's a big fan of trying to do that.
And what I find ironic about that kind of conclusion is it's kind of a sophisticated one.
It's a clever one. Most fundamentals would try to just deny, like not even accept that it's
happening. And this happened to me with him in the New Testament. So outside of your specialty,
but nonetheless, you're aware of this kind of material. And I want to bring up a highlighted
point when we're talking about Greek and Roman legends and myths and you name it, playing a role
into the New Testament. He does the same thing he does when he was conversating with you guys on
Genesis, where, oh, it's just phraseology used in the air, duh, they're in the ancient areas that
probably conquered by Assyrian and Babylon. Like how silly you guys are trying to make a genetic
connection, good luck. And if you try to make linguistic genetic connections, well, I'll just
shut those down and ignore them or deny them. Even if there is three birds that fly off and
there's common tropes or even the lie thing you brought out with the, you know, we're going to
get into so many different things in your courses. By the way, your course also covers a lot of the
ancient Israelite stuff. So both of you have courses, both of you have YouTube channels,
you have books, you'll eventually I'm sure be putting out some more book stuff for people.
But that was my little shame. You just got to stop watching the chosen so much. Yeah,
I'm afraid you're going to have some tainted literature that you might be putting out.
And watch when we're reading as Bucky talks about, and then the Romans went on and they
scrubbed the Hebrew letters from the walls of the, so just making the point, I bring up like
antecedents to the Romulus thing I brought up with Jesus Ascension. And it was kind of a funny
like, we got real comfortable, I think. So you just kind of said what he felt like saying, well,
what would you expect God to do? I mean, if I was God, he said, like, or alien or something,
aliens and gods got mixed into this, but like, I would come down. And if people already believed
in these kinds of myths and legends, I would do, I would make my character fit within the same trope
of it. And Derek Bennett jokingly goes, so the God of the universe couldn't do something different
to establish something so radically new and different. I thought it was funny how Derek Bennett
kind of played that. But he does this where he will say, in a sophisticated way, in case we really
do get a gotcha kind of thing. Well, so what? What would you expect? They got to relate it.
They got to use the language they've got to somehow relate it to their people. That doesn't
deny that Jesus didn't actually float up into a cloud. Right. This is sort of the apologetic
approach. Ten minutes later. No, I'm just kidding. Of course, you know, like we all like,
we're all friends, like I love Michael Jones and he's really nice guy. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We all get along really well. We're jabbing at you, Michael. Yeah. But you know, like this, this,
this is something that is, I think it happens of necessity, right? Because if you're, if you're
starting with the conclusion that somehow, in some way, this has to be the word of God, right?
And it has to be the inspired word of God. It has to be true in whatever it is, however it is,
that we're going to ultimately understand this. It has to relay the truth. It has to
relay God's message. I think that what ends up happening is in the same way that in Exodus,
1237, when it talks about 600,000 fighting men, and you end up going, wait a minute,
like New Kingdom, Egypt only has like 3 million people. You can't have everybody leaving Egypt.
Then you either have to say, the text got it wrong, right? Maybe this isn't an infallible
inspired text, or you have to say, maybe it means something else, or maybe we've been mistranslating
this, right? And I think that what's driving the direction that you go is the thing that you're
starting with, which is your conclusion, unfortunately, in this case.
