Today, I ask Paula Fredrickson, who are the heroes in your academic pursuit of understanding
the first century Jesus studies, Paul's studies, you name it, who are they, and how have they
influenced you? Also, are there any academic studies or people who have written works that
you totally disagree with, but have also helped you get closer to drawing the conclusions you do
today? Thank you so much for those who made this possible, these 12 videos with Paula Fredrickson,
and thank you for joining our Patreon to keep these kind of things coming.
Dr. Fredrickson, I really appreciate you. Again, I can't tell you how this is amazing,
being able to do this. Who were the most influential scholars? Plurl. I know we're
going to talk about some singlers here, but plural in all your research as an academic.
And in what ways did they truly change your understanding in your field of research?
Wow. I read as much as I can, and there are so many brilliant people who have worked in this field,
but I'd have to say if I were reconstructing an academic genealogy for myself, I think the founding
father would be Schweitzer because of his recreation of a robust Jewish apocalyptic eschatology as the
matrix both for Jesus and for Paul. He's where I start from. Following him, the Scandinavian scholars,
Stendhal and Munch and Dahl, both with their Stendhal, particularly on Paul, Dahl on both,
Paul and Jesus, and Munch with Paul. Munch's first chapter of his important book is called
The Call, not The Conversion. And once you bump into a good idea, it's so obvious you can't believe
you didn't think of it yourself. Paul says he was called. He doesn't say he was changed. He didn't
say he went over. He didn't say I converted. He says I was called, and that's prophetic language.
It doesn't put him outside of Jewishness at all. He's in fact entirely within it.
So those scholars, and Christa, who's a theologian as well as an historian,
acknowledge forthrightly that it's 2,000 years after the declaration of the coming kingdom,
and no amount of, what did he call it, hermeneutical gymnastics can deny that simple fact.
So he was able to look square in the face that those eschatological prophecies were part of the
foundation of the movement, and that they cannot be usable theologically for somebody in the 20th
and 21st century. And I think that takes a tremendous amount of theological courage,
and I also think it's historically true. So, and of course, Ed Sanders changed the game for
everybody, both with Jesus and especially with Paul and Palestinian Judaism, or he should have
changed the game more than it ended up being changed, I think, but he's an absolutely foundational
figure in late 20th century New Testament scholarship. And right now, I'm reading,
I think the way that David Litba is so agile with pagan materials and Hellenistic Jewish
materials, it's reconfiguring and reframing stuff. Robin's book, tremendous imaginative,
Candidum Moss's work on martyrdom. I range up to late antiquity, so I'd have to say Peter Brown
he invented the field of late antiquity as an arena of scholarship.
But yeah, those are my heroes.
I really appreciate that. I was thinking about your particular take in this conversion language
that you have done many lectures against, showing there's a there's a turning but not a conversion
or a change, but not like a complete I'm changing to something else. And there are some who are
naysayers to this kind of idea. And they'll say, Oh, you're just trying to be politically correct.
Because of post Holocaust, you know, situations and things that I think the Holocaust is
genuinely regrettable. I think so. Yeah, I'm with you. I just think that they're trying to say,
Oh, well, we're softening our tone about Paul for this reason. But that doesn't seem in all that
I've read of yours, ever even a motivating factor on Paul. I mean, it wouldn't hurt that if we found
Paul's extremely Jewish and in a Jewish background, that even is better. But
that's not the motive. He was flawless with respect to the law. And by being a Pharisee,
he was one of the expert interpreters of the law. He's there's a lot of resistance to seeing Paul
within Judaism as an operative school of interpretation. And people like anti right will
make fun of it and say, Oh, you're looking at the material through the tearful,
tear misted spectacles of post Holocaust scholarship, as if that shouldn't be the case.
But historically, Paul is called and he's still functioning with it. He's talking about a Messiah.
He's talking about a resurrection of the dead. Who else is talking about that kind of stuff?
Right. And he's quoting Isaiah all over Romans as his validating source,
authoritative source for his message. And he's expecting the end of time. You don't start a
new religion if you're expecting the world to end in your own lifetime. So for all these reasons,
I think that arguing that Paul remains within Judaism isn't even a historical question.
It's just what the evidence says. In terms of conversion for his, there are two issues. The
so-called conversion of Paul. And then there's the, is he converting Gentiles? He's specifically
not converting Gentiles. That's why he's saying no circumcision. And if he's in a binary system of
Jewishness and everything else, the only thing for people to convert to, if they're not converting
to Judaism is staying within paganism. He's not saying that. So what are they doing? He's looking
at Isaiah. He's looking at the classical prophets. And that's when people turn to the God of Israel,
but they do so as Gentiles. They don't do it. They don't become, there's no apocalyptic circumcision
party. People are, the nations are saved as the nations and Israel is saved as Israel.
So that's another reason why if Paul is insisting that Gentiles remain Gentiles,
they can only be Gentiles if Israel exists. You need both binaries to have that
sociological category work. And this is what Ephesians collapses. Israel remains Israel.
Gentiles remain Gentiles. They just don't worship Bibles anymore. But if Gentiles have to remain
Gentiles and doesn't Israel have to remain Israel? I love your scholarship. And while you have your
heroes, there are people who I'm certain see you as there. So I hope that we continue educating
people. And I'm sure there are plenty of people you could list that their works impacted in some
way. And even if you thought they were wrong, it was due to their work that helped you to maybe
see a clearer picture. And that's some of the times that I see, even when I'm not an academic,
but like I'll listen and read all these scholars and I go, you know what, they did help me better
grasp something, but I do think they took maybe wrong conclusions or whatever, but it helped me.
And I think that's what we're supposed to do. Well, yeah, I'd have to say in that category,
the so-called New Perspective on Paul, which is attributed to Sanders, but Sanders himself
does not subscribe to it as the 40th anniversary edition of Paul and Palestinian Judaism
has a very important introduction by Mark Chansey, where he mentions that Sanders is not a New
Perspective on Paul guy. But it's Jimmy Dunn and a very eminent scholar, and he write very
heavily published Richard Hayes. And what they said was that after Paul and Palestinian Judaism,
they couldn't say that Paul was writing against Jewish legalism, which is the whole Lutheran trope.
Luther was criticizing Jewish legalism because he was going after Roman Catholicism
and the Renaissance and the Jews were coding for the Catholics.
So the New Perspective on Paul, people said, oh, it must be the ethnic specificity
of Jewishness that Paul didn't like. Paul wasn't against Judaism. He was against circumcision,
food laws, the Sabbath, the temple cult, you know, and basically everything that makes up.
He was against Jewish nationalism and Jewish ethnic pride. I mean, we are post-Bismarck,
we hear nationalism and we think nation states. I think Tom Wright's Paul has a problem
with Theodor Herzl. He's, you know, there is no Jewish nationalism in the first century. And
to say that Paul renounced, it doesn't renounce Judaism, but all of the things that make up
Jewishness doesn't get you very far. All it does is re-entrench the old perspective on Paul,
that Paul somehow thought that there was something wrong with Jewishness and he had to fix it.
And I found that very clarifying to think with and I have read their works and it helped me a lot
to think what I think. Thank you. Thank you to those who contributed and to go fund me on making
this trip possible for these 12 recordings with Paula Fredrickson. I want to give a special shout
out to you. Your names are chiseled in history. I also want to thank everybody who has become
a patron of MythVision, making stuff like this possible, taking academic work that is hiding
behind all of these scholarships, all of these colleges, and making it public, public knowledge
for everybody to learn.
