All right guys, who is Jesus and is there reason to believe in him?
Aaron Raw is joining me today on this show. If you don't know who he is, you will soon.
Let me know if you guys have any guests that you're interested also in bringing to the table.
Email me at mythvisionpodcast at gmail.com. I'll try and find these people,
contact them and see if they're interested in doing an interview. Maybe they have books they
could send me. I can get acquainted with their position and bring them on the show.
Aaron Raw is going to take us into what I like to call a histo-mythesis position
and also delve into other stuff in the Old Testament or Hebrew scriptures,
showing a lot of interesting, strange things on how they believed.
You guys don't want to miss this. I really enjoyed this show. The guy is scarier looking than he
really is in person. He's actually a kind guy and a very, he's very gentleman like. I even tease him
from the start. So hope you guys like this. Don't forget to subscribe to the channel and
let me know what you guys think by writing a comment down below. Peace.
We are MythVision. Welcome back ladies and gentlemen. Your host Derek Lambert here. I've
got an awesome show today from someone that I guess you could say is a lot like me. He's just
got a better voice when it comes to vocalizing the way he thinks and what he says on his shows.
If you guys aren't familiar with Aaron Raw and you need to go over there, just go down in the
description, hit that subscribe button. Make sure you guys get acquainted with this stuff because
he deals with a lot of fundamentalists. But he's also an activist in many other ways too. So it's
not just religious stuff that he's dealing with, but he finds that religious stuff,
weaves its way into society, into politics, et cetera, et cetera. So Aaron, welcome to the show,
brother. It's pronounced Aaron. Aaron. Yes, sir. I'm sorry. That's all right. Everybody,
everybody gets it wrong. You know, if you had a second A, I would just be like AA Ron.
You remember that show? The guys like AA Ron, he mispronounces everybody's names. So welcome man,
welcome. Oh, thank you much. I appreciate what you do. I really am a big fan of what you do.
A lot of people look at you and they think you're a satanist. What do you think of that?
I often say that I can't be a satanist only because one, I'm not young and sexy enough,
and two, I can't afford the wardrobe. Oh man. Those people got some style.
They really do. They really do. Years ago, when I was a fundamentalist, you actually were out on
the scene still communicating these things. You've been out for quite some time and I saw you and my
fundamentalist self couldn't stand you. I did the same thing with Dr. Bob, Robert M. Price. I said,
this guy, and he's debating William Lane Craig, and I was like, Craig won, you know? Like, yeah,
and it's crazy how much one's mind can change when they actually start opening up their mind
and stop being in a narrow box. I left the fundamentalist ideas. I started seeing parallels to
paganism and other worldviews. And I said, at first, my deconstruction was God's bigger, you know,
God's bigger than just Jesus. And then it was like, hold on, Jesus is in all these other,
well, can't be just Jesus because he's predate him. And then I started saying, well,
God's in all of it, right? Then I started deconstructing from there. It was a good gradual
deconstruction. Some people have the aha and their whole life just crumbles. I had a gradual
deconstruction. So that was thanks to guys like you who pointed out obvious things and were not
afraid to say what you think. I appreciate that. When you said, when you said thing about having
an open mind, you know, I'm in the same situation and that once I very strongly advocated for the
truth with a capital T and my truth was still a lie. I mean, I thought it was truth because I
thought it was something that I could demonstrate, but I couldn't demonstrate. I was, I was doing the
neo-pagan spiritualism thing. I was doing like a cult transcendentalism. And I'm like, okay,
no, this is direct firsthand experience. It's a supernatural, right? But what it actually is,
is direct firsthand experience of faith. And faith is the most auto deceptive,
most dishonest position it is possible to have. If you, if you believe things on faith and you
are lying to yourself, faith, the only thing in the universe that needs faith is liars and bad
salesmen. But you really can convince yourself to see and hear and experience virtually anything
you already want to believe. It's just a matter of ambience. And that was the thing that actually
broke me of drumbeat or whatever, you know, I mean, or horror movie effects, whatever. I remember
in one case, there was this girl that was doing this kind of meditation. And I knew she's alone
in this room doing this meditation. And I, I moved the door open that opens very quietly. And I set
a Buddha, a little Buddha down on the floor. And I know she doesn't know what the fuck a Buddha is.
And so she, she thinks it's a demon. And, and she thinks she's evoked a demon. And I realized that
wow, I mean, all, all I had to do was put in like drums and incense or whatever and like you,
you're on and just like, you know, see in your mind's eye, in other words, make shit up in your
head, right? That's what see in your mind's eye. What does it mean when you look at somebody's aura,
right? When you train to yourself to look just beyond what your eyes can see.
What does that phrase mean? It means make shit up and pretend to believe it. Lie to yourself. And I
am sadly sad at the time when I realized that I'm, I'm, I'm actually lying to other people. I mean,
I think I'm, I'm bringing it, but I've been, but if I can, if I can cause a Christian to see Jesus,
and I can cause a Hindu to see Krishna, but I can't do the reverse. I can't cause, I can't make,
if somebody was raised in India, I'm not going to make them see Jesus. That's, that's just not
going to happen, right? Guru Nanak, maybe, but, but not, not, not Jesus. Likewise, someone raised,
raised in, in American Christianity, I am not going to be able to get them to see,
you know, the, the Hindu gods, any of them. Krishna, none of them. Yeah. So yeah, it's not like
there's any one God. If there was one God that was true, damn thing goes off again. Every podcast.
It's okay. That's, it's okay. It's all spirit walk by and it's like, I'm just teasing. Yeah.
Yeah. No, I agree with you. I think, um,
it, what I was saying is if there was a truth to it, if there was one God, right, an actual God,
if there was one right religion, you wouldn't have hundreds of millions of people believing in a
different religion. And what's funny about that is that, you know, all the times that Christians,
Protestant Christians, whether they're Baptists or Pentecosts or whatever the hell,
they all want to say that, um, that the Mormons and the Jehovah's Witnesses and the Catholics,
they're not true Christians. The Catholics aren't Christians at all. Catholics are just
Mary worshiping pagans. But if that were the case, Catholicism accounts for just more,
just slightly over half of all the Christian collective. So the, I mean, if Catholicism
is not Christianity, then that would, and only the Protestant sects are, right, excluding
Mormons and Jehovah's Witnesses. But even if you include Mormons and Jehovah's Witnesses,
still, if Catholics aren't Christian, then that means that Christianity is the fourth largest
religion in the world. Islam is already the dominant religion on earth. And the second
largest religion would be Hinduism with 800 million people believing in that. So
if you, if popularity accounts for anything, what the fuck? And then the third largest religion
would be Catholicism and then Christianity and then Sikhism. Yeah, you'd have to separate
Catholicism from the other Christianities or, and then you got to divide down from there.
I'm talking about Christianity as a collective. If you put all of, if you put the Baptist and
the Pentecost and the Lutherans and, and, and, and even the Mormons and Jehovah's Witnesses,
put them all in one lump, right? And then I'll all say that Mormons aren't really
Christian. They're just the church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. What the hell
makes them not Christian, right? You don't have to be Trinitarian to be Christian.
Mormons are binitarian. There were also Unitarians. If you can accept that George Washington was a
Unitarian, or maybe not Washington, but there's the early, the first five presidents, you know,
you had a couple of, of deists in there that on their logbooks, they're listed as Unitarian
Christians. And if you can accept that the founding fathers were Unitarians, then you
can accept binitarians too. You don't have to be a Trinitarian. There's just a huge amount of
hypocrisy there. And that's why you have famously, we had like last week, we had that woman who
voted for Pete Buttigieg and then found out he was gay and then wanted to take her vote back,
right? I don't know if you saw this. It was beautiful. So we didn't this with this woman
saying, well, I'm Christian and I can't vote for a gay man. And this other woman says, well,
I'm Christian too. And I work for this gay man who is also Christian. So, and then they're both
saying to each other that you don't believe. Wow. Yeah, that's so it's crazy. To be fair,
one of them says that I think we're just interpreting this differently. So that was a much
better way of presenting that. But imagine getting famous for something like that.
You're in Iowa. You would never be famous for anything else ever. Suddenly you're on national
news and Stephen Colbert and on all kinds of parody sites and all of this, because you said
this thing, this stupid thing for which you will remember remembered for the rest of your life.
That's interesting. I saw a video recently, it was put out years ago, and it was pretty much
why people believe in God's. And he went into a naturalist, evolutionist explanation. Brilliant
man. I want to try and interview him if it's possible. I don't know if it will be. But Stephen
Hawkins, I believe, and others inspired him. But he was doing it for Richard Dawkins.
That's a great question because it's and you, I'm sure have seen it for sure. If you haven't seen
this. No, I know for a fact you've probably seen this because it was so brilliant. He went into
everything, the evolutionary mechanisms as to why back in prehistory and showed why humans
would invoke something like this and how it's actually normal that we fill in the gaps. We
don't understand something. So we put things there and you know, each culture has done something
different, whether it was the elves or angels or, you know, God's God or some evolved form of
explaining the unexplainable to them from their perception. And as we've developed, I had one
guy tell me he says, as science develops, we'll start to really grasp things and it'll make
sense of them. Kind of like I've heard Yahweh was a volcanic deity at one point. Okay, I don't know
how true I've heard some arguments. There are people that are interested in this can just
look up the phrase in Google for a moment and they'll give you all the references to it. There are 60
times that Yahweh is described as a volcano in the Old Testament. So you can just type in that
phrase. I think Google will pull it up just with that. 60 times Yahweh is called a volcano.
And people don't notice it because they read in Exodus that they are following something
when actually they're just seeing something on the horizon and going toward that, right? So they
are following what is a column of smoke by day and a column of fire by night. Well, what's that?
Yeah, that is interesting and the burning bush. The burning bush is not even a bush. It's not a
shrubbery. Oh, man, I don't know if they're ready for this. So do you and I want to ask point blank
because I've been watching you for a minute. I love your stuff. I said, how do I get a hold of
them? And I just was being too lazy to really dig and try to find a way to contact you and
didn't realize your email was on the left side of your website or there and I said,
let me email this guy and try and get him on the show. I see that you've been influenced by a lot
of guys like me. I've been influenced by Dr. Carrier, Dr. Price, David Fitzgerald, these guys
in a lot of ways. And I also listen to Historicists too. I try to find common ground. I try to see
whether there's evidence. I'm agnostic whether or not there was a historical Jesus, but
I'm prone to think the lack of evidence from my point of view, I would think there's not
sufficient to be so certain like someone like Dr. Ehrman is. And what are your thoughts on it?
Well, even Ehrman's arguments for the historicity of Jesus, I think, fall short. I also want to
clarify that of the three names of Fitzgerald and Price and Carrier, that I'm not so much in
Carrier's camp. That's the one that people want to associate. If you declare yourself a mythicist,
people think that you're following Carrier's argument, which never quite resonated with me.
I mean, because he's talking about angelography, Hebrew angelography, that would be compelling
if I could verify it, but I don't know how to verify what he's saying. Now, I've talked to
Fitzgerald and I asked him about, well, here's one of the things that I would argue for historical
Jesus. I mean, we have this one case where it's talking about Jesus coming back to the fig tree,
right? There's no figs on the tree and so he curses the tree and it causes it to wither and
everything. I'm like, this is obviously a bullshit story, but it's about a guy who is too stupid to
know when the figs are in season or worse when he tries to cure somebody of blindness and it
doesn't work, right? Or when he goes back to his hometown and he can't perform his miracles because
familiarity breeds contempt and people will say, what? We're supposed to believe you're
some holy man? You're the kid from the hood. We know you. We're not going to believe you're
bullshit. Well, so that doesn't work. So Jesus says that a physician, which is a really loose
translation, is not respected in his own hometown. A bullshit artist will not be believed by the
people who know him is another way that you can phrase that because Jesus was only a faith healer,
a first century faith healer who wanted to take money for the poor, which is just like every other
faith healer takes money for the poor and then you find out that that charity doesn't really exist,
but that they're just living off that money themselves. So that's what Jesus is doing,
right? He's going from town to town, taking people's money for the poor and then just going to the next
town. So you take a historicist approach, though, today? Now, here's the problem and I gave a speech
explaining this in what was it called? A mythical man. Mythical man was the name of the speech.
The description was, I think that there is at least one and here's the problem. It's not
just one historical guy. We know that on the mythical aspect, the story of Jesus is based on,
among other things, Dionysus, right? And Prometheus. I mean... Shut up! He was just trying to tell you
who else it was based off of. He tries to have communications with other dogs in other parts
of the neighborhood through our walls. That's a problem. And if he hears any noise, then it's
that it. You might be hearing me. I don't know. He does that sometimes. I'll be listening to a video
if a new voice comes on and suddenly he charges into bark. I'm like, it's the computer. Shut up.
But anyway, great dog. Guard dog can't complain about that. Where was I? Oh, yeah. So reading
Dionysus, I mean, like years and years ago, I'm reading Dionysus and one of the original accounts
were the oldest accounts of Dionysus and they're translated into English, of course, where he says
that he is the vine and he is the fruit of the vine. I'm like, that's the shit Jesus was saying.
Right? So what is the most recent date that this could have been written?
All right. So we know that this is at least, what was it? Something like 503 years before Jesus?
Minimum. It's at least that much older than Jesus. But it's the same stuff.
Right? And Prometheus, Prometheus, I think, is even even older. Right? So Prometheus was crucified
to atone for forbidden knowledge given to man. So he's crucified to atone for the sins of man.
But it's a much worse crucifixion than what Jesus has to go through. Jesus's crucifixion
kind of emulates what happened to Alsestis, who was another Greek character who lost a bed,
if I remember right, and she had to go to hell for three days. And then Hercules had to go down to
hell to rescue her. So she's in hell for three. So you just take Jesus and part of Prometheus,
part of Dionysus, part of Alsestis, part of the handful of other things. These are just all these
other stories. Why do we see all these parallels? Oh, look at here. Krishna is giving sight to the
blind. Now, Krishna is a dick about it. I mean, he doesn't actually give sight to that blind person.
He does it only for a moment because that blind guy, and this is in the Mahabharata,
the blind guy says that he wants to look upon Krishna's glory. And Krishna gives him sight so
that he can see how cute Krishna is. And then he takes his sight away again. Krishna was a dick.
That actually sounds, it's funny you say, I love this. I love this. Please keep bringing this.
That sounds a lot like, if you look at Jesus after he heals the blind man, he also gives him kind of
like a don't go sinning anymore. Almost like this is a better story than the Krishna one. They're
trying to create by saying, we're going to let you keep your sight, but don't go sinning. If you
sin anymore, I'm going to take it from you. Like almost like that could be how you could see it there.
I don't, he doesn't say I'm going to take it from me, but he does say go and sin no more. Makes you
kind of wonder why what's wrong with what if I sin, what happens, you know? Well, there's a lot
of parallels with not just Jesus, but I mean throughout. And since we're talking about Krishna,
there's a moment in, I don't know if it's in the Bhagavad Gita or if it's elsewhere in the Mahabharata,
I can't remember, but Krishna is escorting his friends Arjuna and they encounter a, I think it
was a lake god. And so Arjuna, the king has to do battle with this lake god. And the god tried to
cheat by, by hitting him in, especially essentially in the jug, hitting him below the belt, right?
So the nut shot. And Arjuna still wins. I mean, he's, he's wrestling a god and he still wins,
even though the god cheated by punching him in the nards. Isn't that the same story that we,
we see in Genesis 30 when, when he doesn't kick him in or hit him in the nards, but he dinged
sure. Isn't it the socket of the hip? Oh, good point. Touched him in the hollow of the thigh.
That's his junk. Exactly. Oh snap. This is interesting. Yeah. So it was exactly the same
story, but told from the other perspective, right? So now, and then also the characters are always
recast. Why is it that they always recast the characters? You know, if you read the Quran,
you'll notice that, Hey, this name and this name are exactly the same character. This is the same
story as these things from the Bible, but they changed the name. Why did they, why would you
change the name? It's the same character. Everybody acknowledges this is the same character. It's
Zeus and Jupiter. They're the same guy, right? We just, it's a different culture. So we call
them a different name. So the same thing happened with like Noah, right? Well, originally it was
the Asura and then it became, it wouldn't have pitched him and, and, and, and Atrahasis. And,
and then it was another one that I forget the name of. It was actually a much later one. So
they eventually you get the pagan version of Noah and then you get what is eventually the
Jewish version of Noah. And they both appeared about the same time. And we know that everybody's
ripping off everybody else's story. Never verbatim, never entirely. Like the whole Adam and Eve thing,
it was, it was bizarre when I'm reading, when I'm reading Mesopotamian mythology back in the day.
And, and I happen across this thing where Enki, a visit, he goes into the sacred garden of Inanna,
right? No, this is an entity. He starts eating the fruit that is growing in, in Inanna's sacred
garden. And then she finds him eating these forbidden fruit. And she cursed him. He's a God,
but he fell. So now she has a fallen immortal. And now she, she laments this and she wants to
forgive what she's done, which is a typical God thing to do. And so she, she bears, what is it,
seven daughters to cure the wounds that he received from eating forbidden fruit in the sacred garden
and becoming a fallen immortal. And one of them, Ninti, was called daughter of the rib,
for she was meant to close the wound to his side. And I'm like, where have I read this line before?
It's in a much more recent book. Right? Yeah, I was in a, I was in a class of comparative history
of world religions. And, and this Christian pipes up and says, well, well, the Christian
Bible came first and all of these pagan lessons or all these pagan legends came out of that. And,
and so the minister who's a Methodist or not enough, the professor is a Methodist, right? And
he's, he, he has a doctorate in, in divinity and everything. And he's been all to these sites in,
in, in Asia and everywhere. And he's, he's really competent in this. And he has to explain to this
kid that it's not possible for the Genesis account to be the original. And for all of these other
myths to be somehow based on that, because it's never the big thing that remains true. It's,
it's the trivial details, right? The fallen immortal, the wound to the side. It's a different
collection of gods. And then there was another one called Adapa. And Adapa is, he's taken to
meet the gods and he's warned that the gods are tricksters. And that if they offer him any food,
then it's likely to be poisoned. So he should refuse, he should refuse to eat whatever they offer him.
But instead of offering him poisoned food, the gods offer him the fruit of forever life.
And because Adapa did not eat of the fruit of eternal life, well that meant that he is mortal.
And nobody catches the parallel in that because everybody conveniently forgets that in the Genesis
account there's also, there's two trees. There's the tree of knowledge of, of good and evil,
which is obviously a parable, right? Everywhere in the Bible that talks about the eating of the
fruit of or the fruit of meaning the result of actions or decisions. Only, only in Genesis are
we supposed to accept that that's literal and which of course can't be, right? That knowledge,
eat of the fruit of free of knowledge of good and evil means that if you know knowledge of good
and evil, then you will, you will change your state of mind. You will understand morality and
you'll never be able to be the innocent child, animal like child that you were before. So it
looks like the old adage that you can't ever go home again. But right at the, right at the end,
is it Genesis 3 that God says that he has to take Adam out of the garden, lest he eat from
the fruit of eternal life because then he would live forever. And that means that Adam was not
already immortal. Couldn't it been? What if Adam had not eaten from the fruit of a tree of eternal
life or the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil? What if Adam had never eaten
from either tree? If he had never eaten from the fruit of eternal life, he would not have
eternal life, he would die, right? If he'd never eaten from either tree at all, what would happen?
Of course, he would die. So Adam cannot be immortal. And these are all stories that were
adapted from other stories. I mean like, it was like, let us make man in our image. That came
from Enuma Elish, the oldest creation myth, where you have seven gods. They're the sixth generation
of gods. So it talks about what the first generation did, the second generation did,
created this, and the third generation created that. And then finally we get to the sixth
divine generation, created man. So that man would complete creation such that the seventh
generation of gods could rest. Where the hell we get that from? It's ridiculous to imagine
the God, right? The all-powerful God is needing a rest. But when your gods are just people with
magic powers, it's easier to understand that. So how do they create this God? Or how do they
create man? Well, they create seven, 14 figurines. This collection of gods creates 14 figurines,
clay figurines. And they're using the Golem spell, which in old Hebrew magic was where you create
a human-like figure of something. And then you either put a spell in its mouth or you breathe
into it the breath of life, because they thought that air was spirit. That's why evaporating alcohol
is called spirits, because you can see the distortion, right? That's why they thought that
dust devils are literal devils. That's why smoke coming out of a volcano is the spirit of God,
right? It's because they thought clouds moving and thought that was God, because it's movement
of air. They didn't know that air was particulate matter, but they knew that you would die if you
can't breathe. So in that line where Jesus says that Jesus gave up the ghost, in another translation
it says that he gave up his spirit or that he breathed his last. Right. And then in Ecclesiastes,
it says that who knows whether the breath of the beast goes down into the earth or the breath of
man ascends to heaven. Breath of man. But in another translation, it becomes spirit again. So spirit
and breath, air, they're the same thing. And entomologists will explain that the actual origins
of that were, yeah, they thought it was air. If you do this, that's air. If bad spirits foul air
would believe to cause disease, well, they don't realize that things stink. Therefore,
there's bacteria causing the stink that is also infectious. They don't make that correlation,
because they don't know. So they think that air is supernatural spirits. That's what it is. So they
breathe the breath of life into whatever. So they make these little figurines and they breathe the
breath of life into them to bring them into life. And that's exactly what Adam is. If you read
Jewish descriptions of this, they describe it as a Golem spell. They describe the creation of Adam
as a Golem spell, which is magic, but the Christians will just refuse to eat. And then the Muslims
don't have a problem with it. Jews will accept that it's magic. The Muslims accept that it's
magic. They're all talking about Adam. But the Christians say, well, no, we can't use the word
magic. Why? I don't know, because we just don't want to admit that. It's like Republicans admitting
that Trump is guilty. It's not allowed to say that. So something I wanted to poke out. There's
one more. Oh, go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Since we're talking about mythicism, okay, how do they
generate the power that God's needed something to generate the power to create life in that
interesting concept? The way that they did that was by sacrificing one of their own. They killed
one of their own gods. And then these figurines that they were making
were soaked in the blood of the slain God, the sacrificed God. You get this? Yes. Yes. So they
are brought to life by being soaked in the blood. Where have I heard this before?
But this is way older than, this is older than Zoroastrianism, which is older than Judaism,
which is older than Christianity. That's the problem I have with historicism, right? So one
of the problems that I hear is this, and I'm not saying could there be, I always say this,
like there could be a guy at the bottom, like we talked about, could be multiple guys, okay?
In fact, I would go so far as to say even the ideas of, you know, the two thieves and Jesus,
you could say one of two things in my, and this is just like the closest things I could say,
like, in terms of contemporary situations that were going on in the history, because they always
want to go, what's the closest? Don't go back 5,000 years to try and pull something. Get it close.
Okay, Josephus' autobiography, okay, there could be a taken from there, where his three
pals are on the cross, one gets taken down and actually lives, the other two die,
by a physician, or you could go back to Joseph, which I can show parallels, line by line almost,
where Judah, Judas, sells off his brother into slavery for silver, he gets taken by the Malachi,
whatever the heck their names were, to Egypt, ends up in Potiphar's house, Pontius Pilate,
let me not jump forward here, I don't mean to do any weird things, so Potiphar's house gets cast
through the dungeon, or in the earth, or in the belly of the well, I meant inside of the heart
of the earth, that's what I meant to say, and he ends up overseeing this chamber, and two guys
have dreams, one is a baker, one is a wine man, so you have the bread and the wine, and when Joseph
goes to tell the wine guy, when he gets taken back up to Pharaoh, because he was going to live,
resurrected to eternal life, or resurrected to death, which the baker had his head cut off,
and was put on a spike, the wine guy, he says, hey, remember me, don't forget about me, Jesus says,
do this in remembrance of me, what the hell's going on, so when I started seeing this, I knew right
away, wow, what a great myth, what a great copy of an older story, and Jesus fits that narrative,
I think that fits even better than the parallel to brain fart just now, his three pals I was just
mentioning in Josephus, and could it be utilized, could Josephus be BSing and using the same Joseph
myth, absolutely, there's no telling what could have been going on here to apply to that situation,
but the idea that you just brought up about the gods, that's the problem I see with a lot of
historicists, they get so into trying to, you know, historicize this, that I think they're
lumping some stuff that's mythology into the context and don't know where to draw the line,
I don't think any of us can absolutely in every essence draw the line, this is why it's all
probability, but I love what you said, Jesus being the last Adam, which was a possibly mortal,
possible immortal kind of weird situation here, where this guy has been cast down, well it says
in Philippians, Paul says he came down willingly lowering himself below, whether he was an angel
as we see with Dr. Carrier, or whether he was just some other god kind of figure, a demigod,
copying Greco-Roman mythology in some way, or even Serapis, Osiris, Dionysus, something else,
and he comes down and what's he do, exactly what you said, another creation, so it's a new
creation, right, here we are back to Adam with the first creation where they're breathing life in
and Jesus turns to his disciples and he says he breathes on them or something in one of the
hidden rooms or something, this is awesome seeing it like that though, I think that's the closest
I can get to the beauty of the story is seeing that it is a myth and that is exactly what it is,
but looking at it the way we're looking at it now, I actually like this stuff, like I like
catching it seeing oh, haha you were copying that story, nice try, it's like discovering that has
freed me, because I don't have to believe it, I can call it for what it is and it's an old myth,
it worked for superstitious people in a time in which they did not have what we have today,
and that's okay, it's part of something that happened, but the fact that we're still
doing this today, that's where I'm like ah, when are we gonna grow up, when are we gonna stop
turning the weird stuff and telling our kids no, no, no, we're gonna pray for you, you don't have
to go to the hospital, no, no, no, no, no, to the addicts, because I'm a recovering addict,
to the addicts, no, no, no, just pray to God and you'll be okay, no, go see a real doctor,
because you have a real problem and you're on benzodiazepines and alcohol, you're gonna die,
dude, you know what I'm saying? Christianity is largely about shirking responsibility,
and Christians of course will not recognize this, because they think that we don't,
unbelievers don't believe because we want to shirk responsibility, we're taking responsibility,
we can't say the devil made us do it, right, we don't break the law because we know it's the law,
we know people invented the law, not God, right, and so we're gonna do what we can to support and
enforce the law, whereas Christians very often will try to say, well, it doesn't matter that I
sexually molested my sister because Jesus has forgiven me and so I shouldn't be criminalized,
because you know, that argument was made by the Duggar family trying to get out of prosecution,
and lots of different Christians, once they got into our charges, they try to use that argument,
I'm soaked in the blood, and so I don't have to go up on charges, and that's, you see, that way
you don't actually have to do anything to help people, you can just pray for them that they'll
accidentally get the help that they need without you doing anything about it, because that's another
shirk of responsibility, and that it doesn't matter how badly we mess up this planet, because Jesus
is going to come back any minute now to destroy everything anyway, so it doesn't matter if we
try to preserve our resources because we don't need to, because we are in the last days, and we've
been in the last days for 2,000 years, right, we just keep making shit worse, but the big problem
here is between, in the in the mysticism, hysterism, is arguments like Bart Ernaut,
you try to put him in a category where you have Ernaut's argument, and Ernaut's argument is
that Jesus existed, but he wasn't the Christ, okay, so that's a step away from, you know, the
typical Christian argument that Jesus existed, and he is God, right, or he's the Son of God,
or the more Muslim and Jewish argument that he's a prophet of God, or that he's just a
shyster pretending that he knows God, you know, he's, he's Joe Biden saying, I know Obama,
but then on the other side, on the other extreme side, we have Richard Carrier, who says there's
absolutely no truth of the Jesus myth at all, it's entirely mythological, or mythological,
and there was no guy, well, well, Erman, I'm sorry, Price, and Fitzgerald, I think are a little
little closer to my camp, and I certainly know that Price is, because much of my inspiration
actually comes from him, he said some things that are, and I've seen a little crazy too, but
when, one of the things that Price has argued is that when you read Josephus, and Josephus has
talked about how he found three people being crucified, and that he recognized one of them,
or you recognize his friends, and that he went to the registry, I forget the name,
I can't remember the name, I always have these moments, but a name that I could
recall at any other time, I don't have now, but anyway, he went to go get the Roman magistrate
to have these friends cut down, and they are cut down, and then one of them died, or two of them
died, and one lived, I think is what, I think is the way it was, and then this is all being viewed
from the opposite perspective when you read Luke, and suddenly you see Joseph of Arimathea,
which is dangerously close to Joseph of Arimathea, Joseph of Arimathea, Joseph of Arimathea.
Now if you look at how much the Muslims have corrupted the name of Noah, and the name of
Ecclesiastes, or the name of Satan, how they've changed that just in that little bit of time,
imagine, it's not hard to see how these names were corrupted between Joseph of Arimathea
and Joseph of Arimathea. So it looks like when you read Luke, that we're talking about the same
event, these people are both writing stories, looking at each other while they're doing it.
This is according to Bob Price, and I thought, okay, that's an out there kind of a theory,
but that kind of makes sense. When you think about this, and because other people are going to say,
well, we have all of this other documentation of Jesus, do you? Really? One of the problems is
that when Joseph mentions the James, the brother of Jesus, the anointed, he's not talking about that
Jesus. He's talking about Jesus of Damneus, who lived at a different time, and is a completely
different character. We know who that character was. We've got historical documentation for that guy.
We don't have it for your Jesus, but we got it for this Jesus, and we know that that's a different
Jesus. Josephus wrote about 19 GZI, 19 different Jesuses, and Jesus of Damneus ate your guy. Now
Christians will adamantly argue that he is, and until you prove absolutely that he is not, because
that's what they need, absolute proof that their belief is wrong. They don't need the slightest
proof that it's true, but they need absolute proof that it's wrong, because they're going to be
completely unreasonable. Of course, of course. The problem is, I like to look at things in a bell
curve. I try not to think in binary terms, whether you're good or evil or whatever, that
most people on most subjects, we're kind of around here toward the middle. Then it just becomes an
issue, are we slightly left of or right of center, is what it comes down to most of the time.
So, again, I try not to deal with too many absolutes. There are a few.
There are a few things we know we're absolutely certain, like there was never a global flood.
We know that for absolutely certain. The best you can do is go back to ice age. That's like the
best you can do, and even then, I don't know if water covered every mountain. I mean, come on,
like, no. We can actually go back a lot further than that to previous ice ages, pre-Cambrian
ice ages, at least two identified so far, where the entire planet is covered in a thin sheet of
frost at least. Right. So anyway, they wanted to call it an ice age where everything was frozen,
but the fact is that it would have to have been thin because there's not that much water on the
planet. So like a thin frost and then some actual liquid water in some pockets here and there.
So, getting back to the subject, there was a historic element to Jesus. It wasn't like Richard
Carrier says, whether it's where it's just purely mythology. And when Bart Ehrman is talking about,
well, we have record that there was, we have all these indications. Most of what he's talking about
is simply Christian historians that grew up Christian. We're never going to question that,
right? They're just never going to come about questioning. Well, they always argue for consensus.
Well, all these historians accept that Jesus was true. Well, yeah, they do when they were raised
never to question that. And it's the ones that question them and say, well, I'm not sure if
Jesus did exist. Well, now you're a mythicist and now you're outside and now you're, we're going to
shun you. But what the argument really is, is when we're talking about Jesus, I've heard arguments
from Christians where they're actually talking about Jesus Ben Ananias. And I'm like, that
reference that you're talking about, that's not Jesus of Nazareth. That's not your Jesus. That's
this other Jesus again. So then we have one of Ehrman's books where Ehrman himself brings up
this, these, like the 16 different gospels that never made it into the book. So we have a hero
character that everybody's talking about. And where did this hero come from? Right? Well,
there might have been a real guy at the base of some of this, some of this. But then when you get
to where we have certain books that are kicked out because he killed a child in one of these books,
in one of these gospels that didn't make it. Wasn't he a child too or something? He was a child
who performed magic on something because the kid was mad at her. So crap, I can't remember.
Yeah. And I like another one that was rejected, which is the Gospel of Thomas
in which Jesus said the only wise thing that Jesus has ever said in any of his gospels,
period, and it's one that didn't get in the book. In the Gospel of Thomas, they ask him,
what do you think about crucifixion? What do you think about circumcision? And Jesus says,
if God wanted people to be circumcised, we would have been born without foreskins.
Yep. That's right. That's right. There you go. That's the only wise thing Jesus ever uttered.
And that didn't make it into the book either. So there's another problem. So I argued with Fitzgerald,
as I started to say earlier, that there are some things that Jesus did that are just so stupid
that we would have to believe that this is a person that did this. There was a first century
faith healer out there conning people who doesn't know when the fig season is, who doesn't know that
farmers in his time at that time, in his location at that time, knew that there were seeds smaller
other seeds like the black orchard that are smaller than the mustard seed. Jesus isn't a farmer,
right? He claims to be a carpenter, maybe because he got wood. I don't know. But
then this is why he's hanging out with male apostles. But
and yeah, which is something that Paul had issues with, because he obviously hated women
and was seemingly closet queer. So yeah, I mean, why is it that the most adamantly
anti homosexual people are the ones that are against you? Yeah, against you being with a woman.
The ones that we catch having sex with a male prostitute in the car or snorting coke off their
ass of a male prostitute or going into a hotel room with a rent a boy whose advertising criteria
was that he had an eight inch uncircumcised penis. That's a weird and that's a weird and he was
Brazilian. Oh my gosh. Well, I tell you this real quick on the fig tree thing. I know that if we
literalize that, of course, the fig tree, I know for a fact, the small seed thing, that's obvious.
But for the fig tree, I'm not so certain it's supposed to be taken literal in the aspect of
whether it is meant to be Israel. And really, even if it isn't literal, it's still bad. Because what
it's saying is it's anti Semitic in many ways, because it's saying the fig tree, this, this
Israel is about to end. It's like really this anti Semitic notion I get from the text is that,
you know, God's taking away what he had with the sons of Abraham, and he's going to have new people
seated at the table. It's like, Oh, snap, what's going on here? But exactly what David Fitzgerald
said. Right. That's that's what he was explaining to me when I when I said that this this shows a
fallibility of humanity doesn't but he says it but it doesn't really because all of these things
are parallels and that each of these words refers to or implies or means there's supposed to rip
which is why I hate arguing scripture because I can read what it says and I can criticize what it
says. But when they always say, Well, when it says this, it really means that, right, except on every
other Thursday or except when the moon, it's full or when I want to argue with somebody else about
a different thing, then it becomes literal again. But until then, it's metaphorical or it's metaphorical
when I can't defend it and literal when I just want to make believe. Right. Right. Yeah. So well,
I heard this argument with Dr. Bob and I'm sure you would attest to this because you brought up some
fascinating things earlier and now. Dr. Bob was debating William Lane Craig on this and William
Lane Craig attacked the dying and rising God theme, right, which we all you me and Dr. Bob
totally agree that it's there. I mean, it may not be exactly the way you want it. You know, this
God might not have been a man in any way, shape or form over here. That's Osiris or something
else. And Jesus might be caricatured as a man. Oh, let's not talk like that. That's totally
different things. I hear historicists argue that all the time. Anywho, on that note, I wish that
Dr. Bob nailed this this idea on the cross here during their debate because he said the problem
with the dying and rising God thing is all the other dying and rising gods are agricultural.
However, the New Testament's not. It's historical. This, this, that. Are you kidding me? Look at the
parables. Listen to the agricultural use of the wheat and the shaft and come on, man. Are you,
you're telling me this has no agricultural implication and that this is not another possible
rewrite of Dionysus, the vine, the grape. This is agriculture. I just, I maybe I'm looking into
it differently. They just can't see what we're looking at or the Christians are avoiding these
things like the plague. So what I suspect is the case is I think that there was a faith healer
who had a strong following and was also got in trouble over this. And then we have subsequently,
we have lumped on to him these legends about how he's supposed to return. And like, like the one
beautiful thing where Jesus says that he hopes he doesn't return in winter because, you know,
that'll be cold, but he doesn't understand that the earth is a sphere. And in the other hemisphere,
it's not winter. When it's winter up here, it's not winter down there. So it doesn't matter
if it's winter. It's always winter somewhere or it's always the opposite season somewhere else.
And Jesus says that that he, he testifies verily that of those few of you who are standing with me
now, that not all of you will have tasted death. Some will, but not all will have even tasted death
before you see me returning at the right, in the clouds at the right hand of power,
which is pretty explicit. We're going to see Jesus return while some of these guys are still alive.
And then they want to come up with every kind of interpretation for how it's not,
it's death in the body, but not in the spirit. Well, how can it only be some of them then?
Yeah, no, I like that.
That would work. So we have a faith healer and on, and at a time when Jesus was a common name,
and people are commonly lumping different GZI together. And then as you noted, we've got,
we've got so many dangerous parallels with, with, with Joseph, and then also with, with John the
Baptist, right? And then with Moses too, right? We have so many different, and they're obviously
just borrowing at interesting elements. It's like when we watched, remember the movie Independence
Day? I remember reading this brilliant article, this was the things that Independence Day was
based on or the tropes that they borrowed from previous movies. I never saw it. So the only,
the only novel, the only new thing about Independence Day was that the spaceships were
15 miles across. The spaceships were bigger than any spaceship had ever been seen in a,
in a, in a, not even Star Wars would have a spaceship inside the orbit that would be that big,
right? And that was it. So they show all of these things. And when they show, when they show this
in Independence Day, this is when we first saw this in 1952s, the day they come, whatever, you know,
and, and when the head of, no, this was a different movie, they did the same thing when they did
Cloverfield, you know, they said, the scene where the, the statue of Liberty's head and they said,
okay, we've also seen this in this movie, and in this movie, and in this, and I think Independence
Day was one of the movies that was previous and then there was another one previous to that. So
I mean, there's, there's tropes that people borrow. That it just, it's just the way that people tell
stories. That's why we can't find anything absolutely novel. And you would, and then this
was my thought, I was, I was hanging out with some pagans back in the day. And this one guy
declared himself that Dionysus was his patron deity. And I said, well, my problem is that Dionysus was,
was said to turn water into wine, but not like Jesus did. Jesus did it like, like Penn and Teller
did it, where they pour water into a jug and then they turn the jug upside down and pour water out,
right? Well, anybody can do that. Penn and Teller did that. But what Dionysus did was he made the
springs of the earth spring forth wine. Now, I'm not saying that anybody was ever actually there
or actually saw wine coming out of springs. Obviously that this is just a story. None of that
really happened, right? It doesn't have to be, there isn't, there does not have to be a kernel of
truth to that. Just something somebody made up, but people want to, to put the, when they, when
they have a hero, we start lumping shit onto it. And my position is that we've done that so many
times in more recent history with Vlad Tepes, with Robin the Hood and with Arthur, King of the
Britons. In each case, there's a historical element that has nothing to do with the legends that are
built around it. And we don't even know anymore what that, what that kernel of truth is. But we
know, like in Robin Hood's case, Maid Marion made up. She does not even appear in the story until
centuries later. Suddenly she appears and then she's in every version after that. There's a Maid
Marion, Robin of Locxley. That was, that was the name of the, there might have been a Robin of Locxley.
We know that there was a John Little that had like 17 kids. That's, that's the kernel of truth
that we've got to that story. That's it. That's a lot to hinge on, right? You know, just taking
this back to Jesus in what you're saying here. I know I'm going to sound a little crazy, probably
to some people who are your fans, but that's okay. It's, I'm just, I speculate. And one thing I
learned is just to evolve my ideas as I learn. I don't think it's too far-fetched. And neither does
Dr. Bob to suspect some kernel of legend on Caesar being applied to the coming of Jesus as Titus,
as some would suspect. I'm not saying everything that Joseph Atwell espouses is obviously in the
vein of accuracy, okay? And I'm not saying he's- You know, he's not, even among mythicists,
right? Atwell does not have a good reputation. And of course, mythicists have a shitty
reputation against everybody that wants to just take the status quo and not put any challenge
to that. So I'm very hesitant to adopt anything that Atwell has suggested. And I don't automatically
subscribe to whatever carrier has suggested. Even though I understand what he's saying,
I just don't know how to verify it to the conclusion that he has. What seems to me,
after talking to a number of others, and especially Price, about how some of this was
put together, is that people are confusing and conflating different people named Jesus.
So I think if you could find any of the historic sources for Jesus, maybe there were only two or
three of them. But any of them, and even if there was only one, even if there was only one guy
at the basis, if there was one first century faith either, and he's in the first century,
because there's evidence that he might have been, there's indications in history that he might
have been earlier, that the legends that are based on Jesus are actually based on an earlier
carrier. Another century earlier, yes. And some of that comes from the early church fathers.
I know that the Jews in the Talmud. And the early church fathers seem to be talking about
a Jew. Did Justin Martyr realize that he could have met someone who had met Jesus?
Because he's not talking about a Jesus who lived a generation or two earlier.
You know, I mean, actually a little bit more than that. But it is still possible that he could,
that Justin Martyr could have met somebody who had met Jesus. You know, it's, I think,
if I remember the dates right, I think he's still within the range of a human lifetime
from that. But what he's writing about is a character that predates Hercules,
who predates, you know, how you have Apollo courting the sun across the sky in one
myth, and then you have Helios, the same character essentially, courting the sun
across the sky in another one. Well, Jesus is also depicted as courting the sun across the sky.
Jesus is the sun god. Jesus is described in Psalm 19, according to Justin Martyr. So he doesn't
seem to be thinking that Jesus was a guy who died just a few years earlier, or just say two or three
decades earlier. You know, he's not thinking of Jesus that way. And obviously not two or three
decades, substantially longer, but just barely within the range of a human lifetime. He's talking
about somebody from the basis of the Old Testament, at least the way I read it. And other people have
interpreted that maybe what he's saying is that Satan went back in time to create these pagan
gods to make them counterfeits of Jesus. But nobody ever suggested time travel. At that time
in history, not one author ever suggested time travel was possible. That's a new science fiction
topic. Justin Martyr definitely was not progressive enough to imagine time travel.
He thought Jesus was eternal. Jesus existed from the beginning. Jesus is the sun, essentially.
Jesus existed in Psalm nine. Jesus predates all of these pagan gods. Jesus didn't live in
the fourth decade of the first millennium. Jesus was several millennia ago, is the way that I
interpreted. I've heard somebody had a criticism of my interpretation of that. I just, I remember
that there was a criticism. I can't remember what it was or how valid it might have been. So
I'm sure somebody won't remind me. Yes, someone watching this because I love my fans. I mean,
I'm seriously, I love going through the comments and listening to people's ideas. And there's
so many, there's some that are just over the top. And I'm like, okay, this guy just took a hit of
something. I don't know what he put in his bong. So here's my thought in a summary. Even if we were
to imagine that it's not multiple, Jesus is being combined and conflated, which I think is almost
certain. And there's not going to be any historic record for probably any of these guys, if that's
the case. But even if there was only one guy, it's not going to be that guy. That if we had a time
machine, I'm certain about this, if we had a time machine and could go back and it was somebody that
spoke Aramaic and just hunt down, you'd not going to find Jesus. You go back to 32 CE, you're not
going to find Jesus. You'll find 50 other GZI. You'll find Grim Chapman from Life of Brian.
You're going to find a whole bunch of apostles because you Jews produce messiahs by the sackfall
is what they used to say, right? Or is what they said in Jesus Christ Superstar and I've read it
in other places too. And I think, because the Bible actually does make that comment,
that the Jews would keep producing all these messiahs. So they're getting them all combined
and conflated. But even if there was only one guy, even if there's just one Jesus who somehow
was born in both Galilee and Nazareth or is from both places and also went to Egypt
without going more than 50 miles from where he was born. If you take out all of the contradictions,
there's one guy somehow did all of this. Put him in your TARDIS, bring him into the 1970s
and let him see Jesus Christ Superstar. If you don't tell him in advance, he would not know
that story was about him. How can there be a historic Jesus if that Jesus character doesn't
recognize his own story? Would Vlad Tepes recognize Brahms Stoker's Dracula as being about him?
No. Take him to any Dracula movie. Vlad Tepes is not going to know who the hell that character is.
This has nothing to do with him. Same thing with King Arthur, same thing with Robin Hood.
None of these characters recognize their own stories. Robin Hood, what I think would be the
most outraged, because we remember and glorify all these things that we've attributed to Robin Hood
that we know where all of these details were added centuries later. Everything we know about Robin
Hood was made up centuries later. We know nothing about Robin Hood from his actual life,
apart from that he might have known little John. And that's it. I totally agree with you. I mean,
if you just, on Jesus for a moment with the magnifying glass in the 30s, if this is when,
because we got other corroborating evidence to suggest Pontius Pilate, Pontius Pilate, right?
That's when they place his death. You only got a 12-year window right there. And if you put it
in that 12-year window and you look at the story about it in the synoptics, you run into some issues.
I mean, you have Jesus Barabbas, and then you have Jesus the Christ, and that's Son of the Father
and the Christ here. And they decide to take the murderer instead of the, you know, turn the other
cheek, Jesus. You're never going to find that. That's not in there. That's not in history. So
I agree with you that if there was, I like what Dr. Bob said, and he said it really well in a debate
back in early 2000, he said, if there was a Jesus, we know nothing of him. We know nothing of certainty
of him. He's been lost in the back of the gospel somewhere. And there's just no way to say, you
know, we can speculate, but we don't know of him. Like you're saying, there's probably something
there could be, but we don't really know anything. And every, every Christian is going to bring up
the eyewitness accounts, which we know that the four gospels that actually did make it through
scrutiny to become included in the Bible, apart from the 16 that didn't make it, right? We know
that the four that did are not eyewitness accounts. Right now, we know that one is based on the other.
Another one is a minor extrapolation of the previous two. And then John just like comes out
of left field making a whole new shit that, you know, centuries, decades later, and it has nothing
to do with the other two, virtually nothing. Right. So none of them were actually penned by the
names, by the people that were named. I mean, especially not when, when it's in the wrong
language. And the, and the original character who supposedly wrote it was illiterate, but then,
you know, Muhammad was illiterate too. So it was amazing what illiterate prophets can write.
Oh yeah. You make good points there. I really liked that. I heard there was 90
total of gospels that we have historically. And I'm not talking like written 300 years ago type
gospels. I'm talking like in antiquity, there's like 94 or 96 total, total gospels from what I've
been told. And like in terms of going back, you know, the gospel Thomas is these, some of these
are getting really close. So it's like, why did they, why did they push it out? And, you know,
there's so many reasons why this is horseshit. And I really do, I like what you bring to the table
here because I like doing it. Christians go, why do you, why do you spend so much time on it?
I don't know. Let's say more than half the world is superstitious. And I think
through the detriment of everyone else, including themselves. Right.
Yeah. And then, and it's difficult to find one historic Jesus who, as I said, was, was both Nazarene
and Galilean and also lived in Egypt for whatever period of time and, and also did this. And at the
same time did that. And it had the same story. Did the loaves and fishes thing twice with his
followers being exactly the same amount of, of, of impressed and stunned at both times. You saw
him do it before. Why are you so, why are you so amazing? Why is it exactly the same story when he
does it again? He did that. You already saw that. Right. How is it Jesus was born during the time
of Herod, which is before six BC, well, before four BC, and then simultaneously during the
census of Curianess at, or after six CE, there's a 10 year window there in which Jesus was born
both before and after, but couldn't have been born in the middle. And then people say, well, why did,
you know, we know that Jesus exists because what, what year is it? Right. Well, we know that Jesus
split time between the beginning of the earth, which they think I've actually met Christians who
think that the earth was created 2000 BC. Not kidding. I mean, we've seen like
Mel Brooks used to do the thing about the 2000 year old man going back to the Stone Age. So it was,
a lot of people believed there's 2000 years before the time of Jesus and there's 2000 years after
the time of Jesus. And that's how they, it's not even 6000 years. It's only four. They're not,
they're not getting this somehow. I don't, but anyway, but anyway, they say that Jesus split
time and they don't realize that the time that they're talking about would have been the year 45
on the Julian calendar and that we did not then change the calendar. It was Pope Gregory,
centuries and centuries later, who decided to retrofit his own calendar onto the Julian calendar,
slight changes to it, but then he retrofit the date back to the, when he imagined Jesus was
born. Now, since he couldn't reconcile four BC to six CE, he picked arbitrarily a date in the middle
to make that the year zero and there never would have been a year zero, but that would,
he made that and that would have been the, the Julian calendar day 45, which there was already
a Jewish calendar. There's already a Chinese calendar. There's already a ZD calendar and they
all, they retrofit their dates back. So that's what he did. So in, I think it was, I can't remember
what, what century he did that, but when, when Pope Gregory lived, but he, he retrofitted it and
since nobody was, it was the middle ages, nobody's like really using a calendar anyway, then except
for, you know, officials and he's, he was leading the officials. Right. So that we, that's how we
established the calendar. So one guy arbitrarily set that day and it wasn't Jesus. You hear that,
everybody? I love this man. I actually have a, I'm about to drop this video, which by the time I
dropped this show on my channel, the video that I'm talking about is already out. So if you're
watching this, you know what I'm talking about. Dr. Bob, I just did a pagan parallels to Jesus
video. I think it was so wonderfully done because he's not anti-theist, okay, which you are,
okay? And that's okay. You are who you are. And Dr. Bob was, you know, clarify, just to clarify
for anybody that doesn't know, anti-theist means that taking out an evaluation, weighing the positives
and negatives of religion, we come up that, that an anti-theist has come up with the idea that,
that, that religion is a net negative against humanity, that it has done more harm than good
and should be dispensed with. That does not mean. I can't argue with that. Then you're an anti-theist.
I don't see. Yeah. And I mean, look, that doesn't mean you're like, and look, I love watching.
I know I want to talk so much stuff with you, man, because you were on the streets talking to
the evangelist and you were like not backing down, but you weren't like trying to cause a problem.
You really want to let him know like, Hey, man, you're not the only one who has a position you're
trying to talk about. And you're going to also hear what I have to say too. And I respect that because
some people need to do that. I think that religion just has the monopoly on the game and
there's got to be some heroes that could stand up and say, listen, you want to believe in fairy
tales and Santa Claus and Easter Bunny and stuff. That's great. Go ahead, but don't teach that. Don't
make that the mandate. Get it out of the fricking schools. Stop forcing people. Let it be a part
of history. Hey, we were once, you know, we were once superstitious people and here's some things
we used to believe as humans. But look at us today now that we're advanced. Look at the medicines,
et cetera, et cetera. I don't want to rabbit show, but Dr. Bob. I know I opened up a can of worms.
I'm sorry. I just have to. It's not, I want people to understand that it's not that, you know, that
I want to express what I believe. It's not that I want to compare my beliefs to your beliefs and
you're going to listen to what my beliefs are. It's not that it's, I'm doing something far worse
than that because I'm doing the thing that the believers, the believers don't care what you
believe. They believe what they believe. You believe what I believe in or whatever. We're fine.
That's what they want. I'm pointing out they're wrong. You're stating things. It's not just your
opinion. You're stating, you're making claims of fact that are not fact and that already is a lie,
but then you're claiming things that we can also prove are not true. And it's enough, by the way,
if you, if you assert something to be fact, you had better be able to show that it is a fact.
So if you're claiming fact that isn't fact, that's a lie. If you're claiming knowledge,
you don't actually know that too is a lie. But then they go worse than that by promoting,
you know, their, their evidence for the young earth and all of this, which is you're just lying
now. That's all of the creationist arguments. They're just frauds, falsehoods and fallacies.
That's all there is to it. So I'm not expressing my beliefs. I'm telling them they're wrong and
that's what they hate. That Dr. Bob. Yeah, now Dr. Bob. Great, great transition. No, I love that.
I respect that. And I'm glad somebody is doing that. So Dr. Bob, Dr. Bob did a show with me on
pagan parallels to Jesus. And he showed a lot of these parallels, the dying and rising God themes.
But we dealt with something I thought you might even like to hear. And I'm sure you do a lot of
this anti-apologist work, which is what it's, you know, you're really, you're really defending
reality in the best way we can, we can test it and see it to be the case with the science we have,
etc. I'm accused of being an evangelical atheist. Oh my goodness. Well, if that's the worst they can
say, I guess that's a good title. Oh well. But Dr. Bob says that when we're looking at the apologist
like William Lynn Craig and looking at the apologist like Ravi Zacharias, he outright says
con man. He's like, with Ravi Zacharias, he's like, he's a con man. This guy is a joke. He's,
and I used to be fond of this guy. Like I had spent hundreds and hundreds of dollars on series,
a series and all these things he taught. And I was a big fan of his apologist works. And,
you know, he seemed so sincere. And we talked about how they deal with these arguments of
pagan parallels going back to church fathers. Oh, like you mentioned earlier, the devil, you know,
knew he went back, he saw he mimicked Jesus, he knew what Jesus would be, or he saw the pre-existent
Christ and said, let me make mimicked parallel figures and trick people to go for him. And that
was one version of church fathers trickery to, or apologists, I meant to say that, I'm sorry,
to get people to think they're right. The other one was that they didn't, that the, I can't remember
what he said in the show. He said something about, there's three different versions of apologetics
when it came to these parallels that the church fathers had. One of them recognized that they
were predating and that they were similar. They, they accepted it. It's almost like at some point
that worked against them or one of the church fathers recognized that's probably not the best
argument. Let me try and find a better way. And Dr. Bob goes into those things. Do you have any
examples that you know of in terms of pagan parallels to Jesus that maybe you'd bring to the
table? Well, just the ones that I already mentioned with Dionysus and Prometheus and Ocestus and,
and there are a couple of others. Right. That, that, but I, but a lot of people will bring up
parallels that don't actually exist. I want to warn people that it was a book by Kersi Graves
of a previous crucified saviors. I can't remember what the title of his book was, but
I, I don't tend to believe what people tell me just because somebody told me. Right. You know,
now I have bought into a couple of parody things that put up on, on shared on Facebook stories
that have turned out to be parody. You know, that's, it's really embarrassing, but it's,
it's really how it's like that pose law thing where religious right is so far extreme that it's,
it's ridiculous to, it's difficult to write a parody of them without somebody thinking that
that's, that that's real because it's such a parody already. Right. So as, as some have already
pointed out, you know, the onion can just be a regular newspaper now. But I don't believe,
I try not to believe what people tell me just because they told me, I want to verify, I want
to be able to look up others. If you tell me, if you give me one news story and it says something
I like, I have gotten into the habit of like looking up the details of that story to see
are other news agencies covering this too, you know, different ones. And are they saying the
same thing? You know, and so it's important to do that. It's important to the best way,
the scientific method of, you know, establishing what we believe scientifically, which means
this is what we think is most probably true. It's not like it make believe like what believers
call it. The reason we're unbelievers because we're not making beliefs. When I say I believe
something, it means that this is what is most likely true or closest to the truth.
You try to test your own beliefs wrong, right? Try to disprove your own. So if you want to believe
this, go find out what would disprove it. If other stories are not, if are not supported,
it's this is the only news story. It doesn't mean that all of the other news agencies just
haven't found out about this. And only info wars, only info wars knows this information, right?
And somehow, somehow CNN and MSNBC and all of these don't know this yet. If that story is only
being carried in one place, it's, it's not substantiated. It needs to be substantiated
before you believe it. Right. Belief. Belief shouldn't be something that you do before you
find the evidence. Belief should be compelled by the evidence. And if there's not, if, if I have
reason to believe that, Hey, you know what, maybe this isn't, maybe this is not true. It's effectively
not true. Well, you bring up a good point. This was brought up too. Dr. Bob said you'll love this.
Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15 that there were 500 who witnessed Jesus after his resurrection,
the 12, this and that. Yet. I want to see those, those depositions. Yeah, I was going to say,
why is it that if Paul's written before the gospels and the gospels don't mention these 500,
wouldn't you think the gospels would have used such a claim to try and put, put the point that,
oh, well, listen, he not only appeared to me and the women and this, but also 500. Paul makes that
argument in 1 Corinthians 15, but the gospels leave it out. Why? Something. The same reason.
The same reason there was a small town in Mexico.
