We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to be delving a deep dive into Islamic literature,
manuscript traditions, a lot of stuff that's way over my head. I have no clue.
But before we do, I want to mention something. Do you remember when I did my Mormonism series?
If you didn't, you should check out the series because at the start, you're thinking as a skeptic, you might go,
well, that guy is a crook and he's this and he's that. But then from a believer standpoint, a Mormon will look and say, hey, this was the prophet.
This man was a man of God. And so I feel like I'm caught in between both sides because by the time they got close to the death of Muhammad,
not Muhammad, but to Joseph Smith, and I use Muhammad as the example.
I didn't want to see him die. You start to fall in love with the character, whether you think he's good or bad.
Either way, you start to fall in love with the story and what is painted about him.
Well, I recently read Leslie Hazelton's work After the Prophet about the Sunni Shi'a split as well as the first Muslim.
And when I watched this in my head as I was listening to the audiobooks, I started to like gain better insight to the culture and the history.
And I can't imagine if you were to speak to this man, you'd either loved him or hate him.
I can't imagine either sitting in the middle when it came to Muhammad.
So my studies into Islam, I ask all skeptics out there to join me in putting aside the polemics against the apologist and trying to argue against those who are desiring to hold on to their faith.
And this is what they want and educate yourselves because there's so much more to learn than what this back and forth with people who believe.
It's the same thing in Christianity. Like I don't waste my time spending 24 seven arguing with Christian apologist.
There's way more material out there to learn and fall in love with.
And with that being said, sorry for the long intro. We have Dr. Hytham Sidki joining us today. Welcome to MythVision, my friend.
I'm happy to be here.
I hope you don't mind my intro. I really feel like I got to talk to my side, my team, and let them know like there's so many wonderful things to learn about the history.
Sure, there's ugly things. I can go to the Old Testament, find you all sorts of stuff.
And you go, oh, or the Hebrew Bible is if a Jew is watching out of respect for them.
But it's like, yeah, we can we can focus on that.
And I do that sometimes.
But what I really like is discovering things I've never known and how humans have developed these interesting traditions and especially the manuscript traditions,
like what was going on in their heads, all of that fun stuff.
And being an expert in this field, I figure I'd get the best and I'm having you join us today.
So thank you so much.
No problem real quick.
If you're interested in checking out some of his literature, go to his academia page.
Be sure to go.
I mean, he's got tons of stuff written on the topics.
So if you're wanting to go and take a deep dive, you'll probably never come out of this rabbit hole.
Please check that out.
And also the upcoming website.
I hope everybody gets the opportunity.
It's ITSCA.
Or how do you pronounce it?
Yeah, ITSCA, IQSA, International Chronic Studies Association.
Awesome.
So what's this website about?
Yeah, so we've just launched a new website for IQSA, the organization.
And the idea is we are really creating a new platform that connects the public.
So everyone who is interested in everything to do with the Quran and Islam with the leading scholars of chronic studies around the world.
What that means is we're offering like a new subscription platform.
We give people access to blogs contributed by the scholars at large that are part of IQSA.
We have webinars that they can attend with the leading scholars and be able to interact with them and ask questions.
And we have master classes and a lot more access to a ton of material that's launching on our website.
So please go check it out at ITSAweb.org.
Awesome.
Yeah, definitely check it out.
I'm definitely going to go join it.
I mean, if I'm going to learn this subject, I need to access all of you scholars.
So once again, I'm greatly like appreciative of having you here.
What are your credentials for those who may not know who you are on my channel?
What makes you an expert in these in the studies?
Yeah, that's a great question.
So the first thing I'd say is time.
Yeah.
So, you know, when it comes to a lot of some very interested in chronic manuscripts and reading traditions and as far as other than one or two specific programs,
there aren't that many, you know, programs that specialize in chronic manuscript studies.
And as a result, you know, a lot of people who work in that area, even some of the leading scholars in the world,
have really just, you know, developed that expertise by spending a lot of time working with the material.
And, you know, for me, it's been it's been basically a little bit over a decade.
I also have, you could say, traditional classical Muslim training in the reading traditions.
There's this thing called Ijazah, which is like this certification.
And so I've studied the reading traditions.
I've studied some of the classical Muslim works on chronic orthography and things like that.
And, you know, my interest, of course, is and I like to bring together my background.
So my MS, it was an applied math and my PhD was in computational molecular engineering.
And I like to bring together the computational side to help us learn new insights on what was going on with the transmission of the Quran,
both the oral side and the written side in the earliest period.
Yeah, that that's what really got me when I when I interviewed Dr. Nasser.
I was he started talking about orality.
And I was like, OK, so like oral, like as in like what we kind of hear some scholars say that there's like an oral gospel that gets written into text, something like it.
But it's actually far more than that in Islam.
The orality seems to be where the magic happens, where the the majestic takes place.
And the text later on takes on, it seems that kind of majestic aspect that the the oral actually had.
So people start to take the text more serious and and doesn't mean it wasn't taken serious.
It just means that the real the pronunciation and the the vocal.
So there's a lot to that.
And, you know, Dr. Highland, I know that or Dr. Sidney, I call you by your first name.
When I look into this, I wonder how much of that tradition does stem from earlier Judeo Christian oral practices.
It makes me wonder.
There's a huge mystery on like pre Islamic culture and what was going on and where all this comes out of.
So I'm as mesmerized as an ignorant person on the topic as maybe you are, except you have far more questions, meaning, you know, a lot more and the more you know, the more questions you have.
So thank you so much for taking the time.
Can we jump into questions?
If that's okay.
Absolutely.
Awesome.
So question number one, could you explain what the seven Ahouf hadith is?
Yeah, so that's I mean, can I explain it?
Nobody really knows what it means, but I'll give you a little bit of background and context.
So, you know, there's not one, there's not one way to read the Quran, or I guess to put it a little bit differently.
There is no one Quran, at least according to Sunni Islamic belief, there are different renditions or different, you know, versions of the Quran.
And the question is, where did all of these come from?
So the tip, the, the, the explanation or the justification for the existence of all of these different versions of the Quran goes back to a hadith.
So hadith is basically a saying or some report attribute or action or some report attributed to the Prophet Muhammad.
And the, the, the, there are different reports that mention this concept of Sabahat Ahouf.
If we translate it literally would be seven letters, and we'll go into what that kind of that may or may not mean.
Now, at a high level, this, the, the, the body of reports around this seven letters, Sabahat Ahouf, all deal with some sort of a prophetic allowance or justification for the, or permission, I guess I should say,
for the existence of different versions or different readings of the Quran.
All right. Now, the most famous report to do with the Sabahat Ahouf, it goes something roughly like this, that there were two companions, one by the name of Omar.
So the very famous Caliph, the, the, the, the second Caliph, Omar, and another man by the name of Hisham, Ibn Hakim, Ibn Hezam.
So what happened was this guy Hisham, he was praying and he was reciting some Quran and Omar happens to walk by and he hears him reading some Quran from a certain chapter coach, Surat Al Furqan.
And he's like, this doesn't sound like what I just learned, what the hell are you saying?
And so he said, like, I wanted to grab this guy, but I waited for him to finish his prayer.
So once he finished, I grabbed him and I dragged him to the Prophet.
And I, I, I complain, I said, Hey, you know, what the heck is this man reading?
You know, this isn't the Quran that you taught me.
And so essentially what happens is the Prophet tells the man to read, and the man reads, and then he tells Omar to read, and then Omar reads, and then he says, you know, after each one reads, he says,
It's like, like this, it has been sent down.
And so he basically approves both of them.
And then he kind of ends it by saying the Quran was sent down upon this enigmatic phrase.
Now there are a couple other reports.
There are questions of like whether they're independent or not, things like that.
But really this phrase has perplexed Muslims for up until today.
Nobody really knows what it like.
What does it mean?
Right.
But at least in Sunni Islam, it's understood to be the license or permission, the authority, the prophetic authority behind the existence of multiple variants of the Quran.
So in a nutshell, that is what the Sabbath of tradition is.
It's interesting.
And I'm just going into a couple of the bullet points because this stops way over my head on a typical understanding.
You sometimes hear the opinion expressed at the seven Ahruf.
And I'm going to say Ahruf, you know, refer to dialects.
Does that interpretation make any sense?
Does it have to do with the dialect?
Yeah.
So very good question.
Now, I guess what I can do is I can give you a little bit of like reception history of how did Muslims attempt to explain it?
I guess before that, I should mention one thing.
So one question that always pops up in the people's minds is like, was the Sabbath Ahruf report invented in order to explain the existence of variation in the Quran?
Right.
So that's, I think that's a very natural question to ask.
So in, you know, Western Hadith critical scholarship, we have different techniques we can use to try to date traditions.
Nobody has actually done an exhaustive, and I mean, exhaustive study of every single report associated with this Sabbath Ahruf concept.
But at the very least, I mean, you can say like a preliminary result that I think will probably bear out once someone actually does the legwork is that this report was circulating very early.
So it's like a first century report.
Perhaps it is historic, perhaps it is historical.
And one other thing that speaks to that is the fact that if someone is going to make something up to explain variation, the Quran, why would they make something up that nobody can make sense of?
Right.
The very fact that people can't even agree on what the meaning of that is might speak to sort of its, its, its historicity and its age.
But to get back to your question, so people have tried to explain this in different ways and people have given, I'll just give you a small window into the general categories of explanations.
Now, one thing I do want to mention as well is like, if you go to much later works, like so you'll be in things like that, they'll be like, you know, here are 40 different possible explanations of what the Sabbath Ahruf are.
And, you know, the majority of those are, of those are a distinction without a difference.
Like it could be this or this or it was like a thing that later scholars like, like to show how erudite they were and how well read they were by showing all the possible, you know, variations of things that they can collect.
You know, it's, it's kind of like flexing in a nutshell.
Some of the earliest opinions about or explanations of what the Sabbath Ahruf are is like that they, they're like synonyms.
So the example to give you in English, the best way I can translate it.
And this is almost quite literally the statement we have from very early figures like a Zuhri and Sayyid and Musayib and others like that.
It's like, it's like me telling you.
Come here, get over here, advance, you know, like that sort of it's like it's it's synonymous phrases.
So there are statements like that that are that are transmitted from early authorities.
Then we have people who, so that's sort of like the earliest layer, right?
And then what you find is you find people who try to put together more holistic theories, right?
Other than, than just like simple statements.
And one of the earliest people is a guy by the name of Abu Ubaid al Qasim Ibn Salam.
He's a guy who tries 224 AH, so the Hijri calendar.
So he's basically like an early third century figure.
And he proposes this idea that the Sabbath Ahruf are Lughat.
They are either dialects or linguistic practices, but maybe dialect, again, simplification.
Let's say seven.
So he proposes this idea that these seven Ahruf are seven dialects, right?
And that and he names some tribes like this is this is, you know, this one might be the Hudayl, etc.
And so he he does that now implicit in that, by the way.
So there is an important piece, which has to do with seven.
So implicit in his explanation is understanding seven literally, right?
So there is a question is seven here intended to be literal or figurative.
So we would call the figurative at Teqthir.
So just like it's a bunch, right?
It's like me talking to you and saying, you know, man, I went to the to the store to buy some groceries
and I was standing in line and there were there were a dozen people in front of me, right?
Do I literally mean there were 12 people in front of me?
Or do I mean there were just a bunch of people in front of me, right?
And then we have we have different numbers that we use to denote different quantities of things.
So when I say a dozen, I definitely don't mean a hundred.
I mean like like a small bunch.
But when I say like, man, there were a million people that gives you a different order of magnitude, right?
So this is a question.
And it really isn't that some people are like very adamant about it.
No, it absolutely is literal.
Here's a refutation for anyone who ever says it's figurative.
But it actually without kind of wandering into the weeds, it actually isn't that clear.
And the reason is seven is a symbolic number.
It's found all across late at Teq and prior to that, etc.
And, you know, seven heavens, all that kind of stuff, right?
So so Abu Ubaid interpreted Saba here to be literal seven, right?
And so he says, let's say sort of like the TLDR, he says there are seven dialects.
Now, shortly after him, another man by named Ibn Qutaybah, he's a scholar.
He comes along and he actually he rejects this opinion.
And he says, in fact, the seven categories of types of variation.
What does that mean?
That means like you have one category are variations in case, like let's say grammar.
Well, another category are variations in dotting.
Another category are variations in this.
And he constructs his own like seven categories.
Now, I think one thing that's pretty clear to people is that, you know, that's pretty arbitrary.
You know, I can make a certain I can classify variants into seven categories,
but someone else can come along and classify them in seven different categories.
And that's kind of what Ibn al-Jazadi, another much later scholar does is he comes up with his own set classification of seven.
And if someone can come up with seven, another person come up with eight.
Another person can come up with six, et cetera.
So that's another but is a very popular opinion that it represents seven different classes of variation.
Yet another opinion, and this one's also found kind of early, is that the Sabbath Ahruf are seven different genres that are present in the Quran.
Like you have you have like punishment stories, you have law, you have things like that, right?
And then other people explain the Sabbath Ahruf as like esoteric readings of the text versus the apparent readings and things like that.
But the point is not to go on forever is that really there's no consensus as to what the Sabbath Ahruf really means.
But and so, you know, do I personally think it has anything?
It's the seven dialects, no.
And I think people who also oppose that opinion point out that that report that I mentioned to you about Omar and Hisham, they're both actually from the same tribe.
They're both from Quraish.
And if it was a dialectical difference, then, you know, you know, they're both from the same tribe.
It doesn't make sense.
Then other people, they come back and they say, well, maybe the other guy, yes, he was also from Quraish, but maybe the person who taught him was not from Quraish.
And you can see how this can go on and on and on for a very long time.
Yeah, it's always it's kind of not solidified, but it is an interesting question with an interesting history behind how people kind of theologize all of this stuff, which you're not a theologian.
I might as well say up front doesn't mean you don't know theology, but you're more into a historical critical approach rather than trying to make interpretations.
So another question we have is you've recently published an article on regionality of the Quranic codices.
Could you explain what you mean by regionality and tell us about some of your findings?
Yeah, absolutely.
So this was, I guess the product of about, you know, I don't know, three years of work on this on this question.
I guess so there are two pieces to it.
So the first thing is, I'll give you some background.
If you go and look in the traditional Muslim literature, they all, not generally speaking, I think unanimously speak of a major event that took place during the reign of the Third Caliph of Man.
Okay.
And that major event is the codification of the Quran.
So as the story goes, prior to this codification, as you mentioned, there were different versions of the Quran.
They are generally like the way the Muslim tradition conceived of these versions are as companion codices.
So different companions of the Prophet Muhammad had different codices.
And these codices had a, let's say, a large is always relative, but they had a certain degree of variation between them that was sufficient enough to cause, let's say, argumentation between people.
No, my version is the right one.
No, my version is the right one.
That kind of thing.
And apparently this broke out on the battlefield.
Things got really heated and word got to earth, man.
And he said, you know what, we should standardize the text.
So he took on this project.
He elicited the help of Zaid bin Thabit, who was another companion, much younger, who was also a scribe of the Prophet Muhammad.
And they basically made a master copy, made copies of that copy, and then they sent them out to the different garrison cities across the Muslim Empire.
So that's the general story.
And the question is, I know, I think one interesting question is, like, did that really happen?
Right.
And it appears that it did happen.
And so how do we know that?
Well, you know, one thing we can find out is, you know, by looking at the different manuscripts that we have that have survived of the Quran, apart from one manuscript, which is the polympsest, they're extraordinarily close to each other.
Like, they're very, very, very similar to the point where, I mean, nobody would look at them and be like,
these are all, like, these, these are completely independent, you know, and this isn't a case of, like, the difference between, you know, the, the Gospels, right?
That's right.
The difference is at the level of, like, spelling of words and things like that.
I hate to say it, but this is what really bothered me about Christian apologists who love to come after Muslims.
It's like, I don't think you realize how, like, your manuscript tradition is not good compared.
If you're going to be like, if you're comparing them, it's apples to oranges.
I mean, it seems that Islam had a far better, they held on to the tradition and the manuscript tradition.
I'm willing, I mean, I've actually said this as a skeptic, like, I'm totally okay if this all went right back to the Prophet.
It doesn't matter to me.
Like, I don't get why, maybe they're feeling self, like, there's some type of self conscious, like, we got to attack them where it hurts us the most.
I don't know.
It makes no sense to me.
Like, they have a very good, strong tradition out of all of your academic, the academics such as yourself have come on.
It's convinced me that this stuff goes pretty much back and I don't rely on conspiracy theories in order to like bolster a position.
Well, they burned a bunch of stuff.
Like, you know, like that's somehow proof to them that this is, it's like that scene from Dumb and Dumber where Jim Carrey is like, so you're telling me there's a chance.
You know, like, like, no.
So sorry for interrupting.
I just don't know.
That's fine.
Yeah.
So I guess you did touch on something very interesting.
So let me just kind of finish this piece.
So is there, well, let me comment on it because I will forget.
So this question of like, was there like a Quran burning that took place and whatnot and things like that.
So it does.
So burning is is a trope, right?
So so whether or not things were burnt, like, we can't know, but definitely, but definitely is also a strong word.
But it does seem like other traditions, other textual traditions.
So what I want to do is I want to bring this back to sort of a more like clinical approach to think about text types and things like that, because that's how I approach I approach studying manuscripts.
And I think it is helpful to think about that.
And just to have like a framework in which everyone can kind of speak the common language without coming in with different presuppositions.
So what I want to say is we don't really have.
It does really seem like other textual traditions were stamped out in whatever method, whether it was, you know, things were burnt or buried or reused, recycled, because they have a polymest.
That also, you know, that could have happened.
Now, one interesting thing.
So so one comment that comes up, well, if Earthman ordered all these other Qurans to be burnt, or let's just say destroyed or eliminated.
What's going on there?
Like, is this like, is there a big scandal?
Was there like all this super weird, different material?
And the undertext of the Sunnah Palm Sest.
So just to give readers an idea of what a Palm Sest is.
So so people used to write on parchment.
So parchment is basically treated animal skin.
And, you know, it's very expensive to produce.
And not only that, when you write on it, isn't paper and you can't really erase, but what you can do is you can scrape things off and you can scrub.
And the actual parchment is, I guess, durable enough to withstand that.
So you can you can scrape off the old writing and then you can basically wash it and, you know, sand it down, if you will.
And then give it a fresh coat and then write on it a second time.
And what happens is over over.
So my guess is most likely when the when the Palm Sest was reused, the person who wrote on it fresh could not see what was on there before.
It looked pretty clean.
But there are like sort of traces of the metals in the ink that was used that oxidized over time.
And it brought out it sort of, you know, it's sometimes like you write with like lemon ink, you know, when you were a kid and it's invisible.
You take a heater to it and it kind of comes out.
But it's the same idea.
It reappeared over centuries.
And then what we can do is we can augment what is visible to the naked eye with, you know, multi spectral imaging and XRF imaging and things like that.
To bring it out even more.
And we can read it.
And so we've done that.
It's not we.
I haven't done that.
I mean, but, you know, but I'm sorry.
The game wasn't good.
RZ.
That's me.
Elizabeth Poole and others have basically have different attempts at deciphering the undertext.
Now, what we can say is the undertext is very, very, very close to the arithmetic text.
Right.
We want to use now it differs in a few words here and there, paraphrasing slightly different things like that.
But there, there are no as we haven't deciphered all of it.
There are still some folios that haven't been deciphered.
But what we have deciphered, which is a pretty sizable chunk.
There is not a single verse that's out of place.
There's like one, but it's very clear it was a scribal error.
Or at least that's a, I think it's a very compelling hypothesis, like one tiny verse that is completely inconsequential, but everything is there.
So if someone wants to base something on material evidence, well, what I don't really care if someone comes to me and says, look, here's a, here's a report from the Muslim tradition.
That says that there used to be a surah that was like this long and that was lost.
And now it's this short and all that kind of stuff where like there were all these things.
Maybe that was the case.
But as far as we can tell so far, the other textual traditions that were eliminated prior to the arithmetic codification are marginally different, but not substantially different from the arithmetic text.
So on the basis of material evidence, I would say, and there are reports like that in the Muslim tradition that say like, oh, this chapter al-Ahzab, you know, I think it's 36 or 33, I don't remember now, used to be as long as Q2, which is like the longest surah or Q9 or whatever.
And to me, like, I don't, that is not meaningful to me unless, unless I see some material evidence.
So as far as I look at it, the other traditions were marginally different than the arithmetic tradition, but not substantially so.
So that's how I look at it.
It's almost like when I spoke to Dr. Nasser, and I mean, like I'm barely learning, but I feel like I'm picking up, you know, what you guys are putting down.
But the idea that like they found the Quran on leafs and on flat stones and things like this, one could believe that to be the case.
And then one could say, well, I think this is mostly tradition.
There are certain things, for example, the people who are antagonists will love to find the bad and dwell on it and then ignore when other claims that are also oral tradition or statements without any empirical data.
If it looks bad, they like to jump on it.
If it looks good, they'll try to downplay it or something.
And for me, the reason why I said that I wouldn't care if this came all the way back to the Prophet, to me, it's not textual.
How well is it preserved?
That's not like, for me, that's not a hill that like, it's interesting.
I love learning it.
The point I'm making is it's not like whether this went back to the Prophet or not, this somehow proves me right or wrong or something like that.
That seems to be their motives.
Does that make sense?
Whereas what I'm interested is just, let me just learn the history.
I don't care about right and wrong.
It's more about like, what happened and what can we know about these things?
I want to try and shift our focus from trying to debunk people or try to be disproving of stuff.
That's ultimately what I'm trying to do and just to educate people.
I do find that really interesting, this whole idea of where in regionality, the codices and things like that, what are the nature of those regional variants, if you don't mind me asking?
Yeah, absolutely.
So just to, I guess now we can circle back to that.
I apologize for going on that tangent.
I'm sorry.
It's fine.
So essentially, what we can do is, it turns out that the copies of the codices that were made during this Earthmanic project were not identical.
There were small differences between them.
And they're preserved in books of Quranic orthography, which what we call Rassim and things like that.
And they mentioned the different regional codices had, some had this variant and others had that variant.
And there's about 40 odd differences between them.
And the question is like, how much does that reflect reality?
And what, so what Noldeke showed a long time ago is that it turns out that if you look at all these variants, they actually form what's called a stemma, like a genealogical tree, right?
Very beautifully, it forms a stemma, which indicates that, well, you know, this is a copying process.
This was copied from here.
And, you know, there were scribal errors that were introduced that basically are responsible for the differences.
Right.
And in about 2004, Michael Cook came along and he refined Noldeke's hypothesis a little bit, and he narrowed it down to four potential different patterns of copying.
Like, so I guess implicit in what I'm saying is that there are four codices.
So one was Captain Medina, which was the capital of the time.
One was sent to Basra, one was sent to Kufa, and one was sent to Syria.
And I would argue was sent to Hems in Syria.
And essentially what I do is I say, well, you know, that was done on the basis of the literary reports.
But how does that reflect reality in the manuscripts?
So I basically go scouring all the manuscripts I have access to and all the data that I can.
And I apply basically what we'd call phylogenetic analysis.
So it's the same kind of thing that we use to study evolution and speciation.
We can use very similar techniques to generate stemmas or these family trees.
And I show that, yeah, all these manuscripts go back to four ancestral codices.
So it is consistent with that.
And then based on radiocarbon dating of some of the manuscripts that I used to generate that tree, we can basically say, yeah, the time window is consistent with around 650, the reign of the Third Caleb Fourth Man.
Now, there's one more piece I want to add.
So how, what is the, okay, well, that's great and all.
What else can we learn?
So one interesting thing I try to argue is that awareness of these variants between the, the different regional codices was learned over time.
So it wasn't like each codex was sent with a list, you know, like an announcement like, hey, guys, here are all the differences between your codex and all the other ones.
They were just sent.
And as people just travel and information diffused throughout the empire, people started comparing or maybe, you know, you'd read in prayer and I'd listen to you back, oh, you know, mine's a little different.
And then I'd be aware and then be like, you know what, let me go through systematically and try to pick all these out.
And so what I show is this is what I argue is that essentially knowledge and awareness of the regional variants emerged over time.
It wasn't there like from time t equals zero.
And the way I show that there are a couple approaches.
But one thing we can do is we can compare the reports to the oldest manuscripts we have.
And one thing is that orthography.
So spelling evolves over time, right.
And so the way things were spelled in the oldest manuscripts are a little different than the way things are spelled in later manuscripts.
And what we find is when they mention, oh, look, there's a variant here and there, or there's this or that.
The spellings that they are aware of are the spellings that are found in, let's say, like late first century, second century manuscripts, not the earliest ones.
And we can use that to be like, aha.
So this awareness of the regional variants approximately emerges around that time.
And then everybody knows 600, 700s AD first, second century, you know, just so they know.
I'll try to do both. Yes, both both dates.
Sometimes you get very focused working in one area.
And yeah, so I would say around, you know, maybe late, late seventh century AD.
So like 690 somewhere around around there, roughly speaking, is when people started becoming maybe 680 something like that, people started becoming aware of the.
So within a couple of decades, people started becoming aware of these, these regional differences.
And then you start seeing manuscripts that are written with mixed variants.
So someone might be like, you know, I really like the reading.
I really like the one in the Syrian tradition.
So they'll use that in their manuscript and so on and that kind of thing.
Now, of course, you know, the so there's always been this question of like, you know, why did the Earthmanic committee introduce these variants in the manuscripts?
And so, you know, as I mentioned, I think that a very natural way of looking at them is like, well, they were just minor scribal errors that were introduced when the things were copied.
Now, in the Muslim tradition, what you often find is you find this idea that, well, they were inserted on purpose.
So these variants were added purposefully because otherwise, how would you accommodate multiple readings?
So if I wanted to have, you know, two different readings, I mean, I could put the word in the margin that could put it sort of interlinearly or something, but that's just messy.
Well, what can I do? Well, I can say, you know what, when you write one codex, put this one here and the other codex with the other one there.
And so that's the general or that is one of the explanations that are given.
So that's the general nature of the of the regional codices and the variants.
And, you know, one final, I think really interesting thing we can we can learn about it, we can learn about, you know, through my study of the regional variants is we can learn about how the oral and the written interact with each other.
So, yes, you know, the manuscript tradition was copied, you know, the manuscripts were copied through written transmission, but the oral did also influence the written tradition and vice versa.
There's so much in this that I won't be able to unpack.
There's so many amazing things you brought up that make me wonder, especially with the rise of an empire, because this is not just taking places like the Koresh tribe and here we are and they're just in this little local area.
And this is it. No, like, there's Medina and there's Mecca and then they're they're they're conquering Syria.
And here they are, you know, going to Persia.
I mean, like by this time, I mean, they've already conquered Heraclus there.
They're this is like long, they're expanding this empire.
So you got to imagine how much they're trying to control all sorts of different people that are now starting to find their way in.
Because from what I understand, if I'm not mistaken, a historical approach, after listening to a few of these books and kind of reading a little bit at first, that it didn't seem like they were trying to kind of proselytize.
It seemed like it wasn't a goal of Muhammad to like, like convert people, I think, and I don't know.
I'm looking at it historically here.
I'd love to get your historic historical opinion on this, but it doesn't seem like that was the mission.
That's something that kind of took place as the empire rose, as more people became conquered and and started to become part of the empire is that they started to say, become Muslim.
Now, is that historically accurate?
For me, it's actually a very contentious question, even in the field.
So was Islam from its inception, or at least from the establishment of the Medinan state, was it imperialistic?
Was that part of the long term vision?
Or was it not?
So depending on who you ask, was the Islamic project as an empire, was it ethnic?
Was it religious?
So you have people sharing, or was it universalist?
Was it exclusivist?
Was it this?
And this is very contentious.
And I am not a historian of early Islam, and that's very specialized.
So there are different opinions out there actually in the field right now, and there are different books that scholars wrote, try to argue these different positions.
And so I am noncommittal on this.
And who knows, maybe time will tell.
Yeah, I kind of wondered, and the only reason I brought it up, and I'm very thankful for your honesty on not knowing.
That's how you know someone's an academic when they say, well, I'm not sure.
That makes me feel very comfortable.
I just say that for those who are watching, to keep in mind, whenever you're interviewing academics, you'll notice that when they don't know, that's a good sign.
Or they're not certain.
They might have an opinion, but they'll usually refer their opinion and keep it off record just because they don't want to put that on record if they're not experts in the field.
I ask that because with the rise of the Empire and having manuscript tradition out there, I wonder if that the different cultures played a role in the impact in some sense.
Like just an analogy, and then I love to let you do whatever, you know, say whatever.
Early Christianity, most of scholars I talked to think it was Jewish from the start, purely Jewish, like no Gentiles were involved.
In fact, there are elements in Matthew's Gospel where Jesus' own words are saying, don't even go to them, actually.
Do not go to the Samaritans.
Do not go to the Gentiles.
Rather go only to the lawsuit of the House of Israel, which sounds to be Jews.
And then after he dies, and then of course the end of Matthew says, oh now go into all the nations and proselytize and whatnot.
Did Jesus really have that mission in mind, or is that something that the followers had?
And the Gentile influence on Christianity makes me start to think elements have creeped their way into the movement that have kind of developed to this expansion idea.
That's the only reason I brought it up.
Yeah, and so I do see the Earthmanic codification as a political project.
And I think, I mean, I think it was a brilliant move, you know, politically speaking, I think it was a brilliant move.
And there are really, so this is just a small point I'll make.
There are interesting questions around why the Quran is in the form of a codex.
So it could have been a scroll, I mean, you know, it could have been a scroll, right?
It could have been, so why is it a codex?
And the specific structure of the codex, the specific like codecological aspects, the layout of the codex, how surahs, how chapters are separated, things like that.
More work needs to be done on sort of contextualizing that tradition and understanding it, its development and its emergence in late antiquity.
And I think we can learn a lot about the influence and about the interaction between cultures that led to the Muslim state adopting the codex as the specific form for their religious scripture.
So that's like an unanswered question as of yet.
And we'll see what happens.
Yeah, I love it though. This is fun.
So I'm going to butcher this pronunciation.
And it's just because I'm totally Western and I'm trying to learn how to say some of these things.
But the next question is, what is the Qur'an?
Am I saying that right?
It's Qur'an.
Qur'an, a reading tradition of the Quran.
What is it?
What is a Qur'an, a reading tradition of the Quran?
Yes, so I just refer to it as a reading tradition from this point on.
So a reading tradition is essentially a systematic way of rendering the written text of the Quran into speech.
So Arabic is not like, I guess, even English, but basically the earliest manuscript, the earliest codices.
And this is just by virtue of the fact that they were written in Arabic.
Not everything is expressed in it.
What does that mean?
That means that there's no vocalization.
There are no vowels, there are no case endings, there are none of these kinds of things.
And even sometimes you don't get continental dotting and whatnot.
And so the written is not sufficient to contain all of the information needed to turn it into words, right?
So a reading tradition is essentially the rendering the written into the spoken.
So that's abstract.
And what does that actually mean?
What that means is that the authentic codex, the authentic text, there are different ways of rendering that in the speech.
One very common example is in the first surah, you know, Q1, you have Malik, Yomedin.
So the king of the day of judgment or Malik, the owner of the day of judgment.
And those two are different readings.
A reading tradition is every decision that you make on how you want to vocalize a word.
All of that, in all of their permutations, represent a system, a reading tradition.
So if I take a reading tradition and I switch one word to something else, that's a different reading tradition.
I am simplifying it, there are differences among transmitters, but that's just the general idea, is that a reading tradition is a fixed systematic rendering of the written text into oral.
And reading traditions are typically ascribed to readers.
So different people had different reading traditions, right?
And those reading traditions can vary a little bit, or they can vary a lot.
The only thing they have in common, at least the canonical ones, which I'll talk about in a moment, is that they all, more or less, follow the Arthmanic text very closely.
So the general idea is that even though the text, the written text of the Quran was codified during the reign of Arthman, people still read it differently.
So they had different, they vocalized it differently.
And anybody could just vocalize a text differently, whether it's through choosing different combos or coming up with new combos or what have you.
There were just many different reading traditions.
And those different reading traditions proliferated, because imagine permutations, every time I permute something, that's technically a new one.
And you can get all kinds of like an infinite number of possibilities, right?
And then basically in the fourth century, there's a guy by the name of Ibn Mujahid, and he comes along and he decides to limit, restrict the number of, to canonize, I guess you could think of.
Right.
So he picks, he picks the readings of seven individuals.
And he publishes them in his book, publishes, you know, he writes a book called, you know, a kitabah sabbath.
What was the publishing company's name?
The book of the seven readers, and that catches on more or less.
Now, one important thing to keep in mind, so, and then, and then like about, you know, I don't know, 700 years later, Ibn Mujahid comes along and he adds three, if you will, to the canon.
And now we have today, there are 10 canonical reading traditions.
But one thing to one important point to make is, it's not like the other one, it's not like a guy came along, you know, 700 years after the fact and said, I'm just going to add these three additional reading traditions to it.
They were actually transmitted in the same way the other seven were transmitted.
The whole time, it just wasn't considered part of the canon.
I don't know the best example to give, I don't know enough about the history of, you know, the New Testament, whatnot, but it's, it's like, there's a non chronical gospel that's being used by communities and copied and whatnot.
And then maybe like, in on the year 700, they decide, you know what, we're going to add one more gospel to the canon.
It's not like the gospel appeared magically out of nowhere in the seventh century.
So it wasn't part of the New Testament officially until they decided to add it.
That's maybe the analogy I would give in terms of, because I have heard some different sort of misconceptions about where the remaining three come from.
But that makes sense and there are certain schools or certain Christian denomination, if I could use the term or the particulars like Catholics do have more books in their canon,
even though the writings, they don't consider them canonical, they have the books attached to their literature.
Some are pseudopographical writings or whatever, but then they still see them as holy literature.
They just don't consider them canonical.
So they're not on the same level, but they're there.
That's kind of the example, I guess, could be there.
I do think it's interesting in that question because I was going to follow up with who determined what are now the canonical readings, which you answered and why did they choose those readings.
But I guess a fair way to say it today, are there Muslims that read outside of those 10 canonicals?
No, so it's sort of the one very important aspect of considering something acceptable for reading is sort of maintaining an oral tradition, like this sort of a living tradition of those readings.
There are at four more that are more or less kind of still not non-canonical, but not 100% canonical that are still transmitted.
But generally speaking, outside of the 10, people do not read according to those traditions anymore.
They just stick to the 10.
They're still in works, they're still in books, they're documented, they're there, but they're just not recited as part of the performance.
So they're not prayed with, they're not used in a religious or liturgical sense.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, no, that's all.
Go ahead.
I was going to say, do you think that the same way in the 400s, and I say 400s, meaning around a year 1000 or so, for those who are watching who aren't familiar with the dating in Islam, do you think that there's the chance that Islam might adopt those four as canonical at some point?
I asked just because sometimes we get stagnant and we've made things canon and we just won't change.
This is the way things are.
And do you think that that doesn't seem to be something that will happen?
I don't know if I can answer that.
I don't know.
Yeah, this is an opinion thing.
There's no way to like...
I mean, it depends.
The question is, well, the problem is, at least a couple of the four, they don't follow the Orphan, they don't follow the Uthmanikas 100%.
And that's one of the conditions that Muslims have kind of established as a condition for a valid reading.
They have this idea.
It's called like Sunnah Mutabah.
It's like a communal practice that's been established.
And the idea goes like this.
Look, the earlier generations, they decided to all come together and agree, we're only going to read according to readings that follow the Uthmanik text.
And since they established that, there's no reason for us to go back and, you know, carve a new path, if that makes sense.
Will it happen in the future?
I have no idea.
So, okay, before we get to who these readers were and things like that, just one more question.
This gets into the whole, like, I always refer back to what I know about biblical studies, and there's probably some unique things that Islamic studies has that maybe I can't analogize.
But the way I understand this is just because someone came up on the 400s and had this standardized, let's get the 10 canonical readings, these are them.
There was a common, like, they probably were the most popular, well-read ones already.
So, like, where people like, I'll give you an example, people go, oh, the canon didn't exist till the 4th century when Constantine and they had the council and all this.
And people are like, actually, no, a couple hundred years before that, there were already church fathers that were using certain texts, and they just kind of solidified that canonization over time.
Is that, would that be a good analogy to say what's happening here?
I think that's an excellent analogy.
That's a very, very good observation.
So, by and large, nobody knows specifically why Ibn Mujahid chose those seven.
In fact, some people after him criticized him, like, why did you pick that guy?
You should have picked this other guy who's more deserving of being in your book.
But over time, you know, it crystallized and it more or less got accepted.
So, the question now is, I think one interesting question is, well, what, if we go back to manuscripts prior to the canonization, what do we see?
Do we see the vocalized manuscripts?
Do we see the reading of those seven readers or the ten readers?
And you don't, you kind of don't, you see some of them, like a few of them you do.
But oftentimes what you see is you see the, you can see the regional tradition, and this will go to like, who are these seven or who are these ten?
You can look at a vocalized manuscript and say, okay, the reading of this manuscript is from this region.
Like this is a Boston reading.
This is a, you know, Iraqi reading.
This is a Syrian reading.
This is a Hijazi reading.
But rarely in the, in the grand scheme of like the number of vocalized manuscripts, can you say, aha, this is Ablaamno.
This is one of the seven kanaka readings.
And perhaps so it depends on how you look at it.
Well, you know, the tradition, I guess some, some traditional reports do say that they were the most popular in their regions, but most popular is relative.
And we don't quite know when the manuscripts were vocalized.
So maybe those manuscripts were vocalized before those readers were born or before they came popular.
So there are all kinds of questions like this that we don't have the answer to.
But TLDR, yes, more or less, yes.
That's what they tend to say is that they, they generally, and I do think that is the case.
Those readers that were chosen were quite popular in their respective regions.
And I think these readings, before we get to the readers, one more time, just make a comment and get your thoughts.
Why seven, right?
Here we go with this thing again.
And I think there's a sacred significance to choosing seven, which, you know, I can imagine he felt tugged in multiple directions at points.
I don't know which one do I get.
I think, I think, so I have a, this is actually a chapter in the, in the book I'm writing right now, my monograph, is why did I have to choose these seven.
So nobody really knows and we can't like interrogate him.
But I think, I think I figured it out if I may be so bold to claim.
So I want to share it here.
You know, you all have to wait for it, but I think I figured it out.
And I think the number seven is a coincidence.
And here's the thing.
People have criticized him for choosing seven.
They're like, why didn't you make it six or eight?
Because when you made it seven, you confused people, you made them think.
So many people apparently, even today, actually confuse the seven Ahruf that we talked about with the seven readers.
They're like, oh, the seven Ahruf, they're like, no, no, no, they have nothing to do with each other.
And oh, how we wish you just would have added one person or removed one person just so that you don't confuse people.
So I actually think it was sheer coincidence.
It was not intentional on his part as to why it ended up with seven, you know, if that, if that makes sense.
Yeah.
Because being an outsider, right?
Like I even was like, oh, this seems to have a connection to seven being Ahruf.
I think it's sheer coincidence on this part.
Yeah.
Okay.
Excellent.
I look forward to your book, obviously.
And when we get that, let me know.
I'll make sure I put that link in the description because we're going to have to do a follow up pertaining to the book as well.
I would, I hope so.
Awesome.
So what do we know about the lives of those readers and what are they like?
So I'm sure, you know, like anyone, you can go into early church history and you could find a really noble guy who, who's got a real good thumbs up named origin.
And then what do you find out a couple hundred years later?
He's a heretic.
Whoa, what happened here?
Like, you know, and then there's very interesting people.
So if you don't mind, tell us a little bit.
Yeah.
So the seven readers and the 10 just even more so.
So they, they, they, they've generally lived the earliest ones, they die in the early second century.
So that would be early eighth century CE and the later ones, they die in the early third century.
So they span.
So that would be the eighth, ninth century.
So they span that time and some of them are students of each other.
So that's another thing to know.
So who are like the earliest ones?
So the earliest ones we have Ibn Amir.
So he's, he's, he's Damascene.
He's from Damascus.
He dies 118.
Hijri, an A.H.
And then in Mecca, we have Ibn Kathir not to be confused with the famous exegete who wrote like a tafsir, not him.
A different name in Kathir.
He dies a 120 in Medina.
We have Abu Jaffa.
He dies around 128 or 130 in Iraq.
So in Kufa, we have awesome.
He dies 127, I think.
And then we have Abu Amir.
He's in Basra.
He dies, I think in 140 or 150, something like that.
So those are them.
Then they have students.
So, so Abu Jaffa in Medina, one of his students is Nafa.
And he dies in like the 170, 179 or 171.
I don't remember now.
And then we have in Kufa, we also have Hamza, 154.
And we have two of his students who are in the canon.
And then we have Yaqub who dies in the early third century in Basra.
Those are kind of the readers, the landscape.
So we know different amounts of information about the different readers.
Some we know a lot more about and some we don't.
So for example, Ibn Ahmed, we generally don't know that much about him.
Other than that, essentially he was just,
he dedicated his life to reading the Quran.
He was a Quranic reader.
The same with Abu Jaffa, but we know a little bit more about his life.
But as you get to the later ones, we know a little more.
So for example, Qisa'i, he's a Kufan, but he was also a famous Chromarian.
And he got into a big argument, debate with Sibaway.
So very well, like the father of Arabic grammar, if you will.
And that argument between them led to the death of Sibaway.
And yeah, yeah.
So I don't remember the details.
It's been a while since I've read it.
So take this with a grain of salt.
But basically they were debating a grammatical issue as to whether about a wasp,
as to whether it's specifically written.
What is correct Arabic?
Is it, you know, this way or is it that way?
And apparently, as the story goes, what Qisa'i did is he bribed a bunch of Bedouins.
And he told them, listen, when I ask you, when we call on you guys and ask you,
how is this said, you have to agree with me, right?
And so, you know, I mean, he told them just like hang out outside a little bit because he knew,
he knew, he knew that what Sibaway would do is when they disagree,
he'd be like, you know what, let's go ask a Bedouin.
Let's go ask a real Arabian and let's see what they have to say.
And in fact, that's exactly what happened during their debate.
Sibaway was like, you know what, let's go find those some Bedouins and ask them and let's see who's right.
And they went to the Bedouins and they were bribed by Qisa'i and they asked them and guess what?
And so, so then Sibaway apparently was like distraught and he kind of wandered out.
He refused to eat for days and he died or something like that.
I don't know.
Right.
So who knows?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's entertaining.
And Qisa'i is a very interesting personality.
So he has other stories like this that are transmitted from him about like, of him, you know, making like elementary mistakes in prayer with like Haruna Rashid, the Caleb praying behind him.
Or like, you know, someone asked him like, hey, why do you read this way?
But instead of giving him like an actual answer, he just answers with a pun.
And so one example of that is, you know, he was asked, you know, there's a word for wolf.
It's Vib and he reads it Vib without a hemsa.
But there's hems can mean a letter.
It's like a bottle stop, but it can also mean like a spear, like a pokey thing.
And so he asked, he was asked, why don't you hemsate?
Why don't you, you know, do hemsa of the word wolf?
And he says, I'm afraid, you know, the wolf will eat me.
So he's like, basically he in turn like, why, why, why don't you poke?
Why don't you poke the wolf?
And he's saying, I'm afraid the wolf.
Well, that's funny, but you didn't answer the question.
So he was a very lively person.
And so, you know, that's those are basically the readers.
I don't know.
I can give you more details about the other ones.
You know, there are some stories about Hamza, who is a famous Kufen reader.
He was controversial with his reading.
Some people didn't like it that much.
Generally speaking, later on, it was, it was, it was pretty unanimously accepted.
And yeah, so, so those were the, those were the readers.
I guess I will say something informative, right?
So one thing that, that, that unifies or unites the readers is their adherence to the
arithmetic text.
So in their lifetimes, there were readers that did not follow the arithmetic text 100%.
But all 10 of these readers with minor, minor exceptions, they all more or less followed
the arithmetic text.
And as I mentioned before, that was kind of one of the stipulations that the Muslim
community adopted for the canonicity of the readings.
In this vein, before we get to next question, analogies, right?
I have to give early Christianity was kind of the Wild Wild West.
Like, in fact, I asked Dr. Bart Ehrman, you know, like, hey, Dr. Ehrman, you have Roman
Catholics and like the furthest from that are like snake handling Pentecostals, right?
And I do think that God, they have a modalist view.
God is one but shows up in different personalities, but it's not the Trinity.
They think it's one God that shows up in different personalities, whereas Trinity has three in
one and somehow that's supposed to make sense.
But anyway, the point is it's, it's very, there's a mystery to the Trinity.
Of course, if you ask a Christian, if you ask someone like me, I'm like, yeah, anyway,
we won't go there.
The point is, is there was really big differences.
In fact, he says there were more differences in early Christianity and they were called
Christians, followers of Jesus, at least into the early second century where some had multiple
gods and they still were considered Christians.
And some were like only one God and Jesus was a man and the father of him was Yahweh.
So like technically, there were still Christians, but they didn't worship Jesus or they didn't,
you know, whatever it might be.
They might have seen him and venerated him, but still had like a monotheistic Judaism type
of view.
So anyway, I just say all that to say, like these readers that you're saying that didn't
really follow Uthmanic, this is a bad analogy.
But my point is, was it potentially the Wild Wild West of reading traditions and potentially
having like variations of reading traditions other than Uthmanic ones around this time?
And these guys are kind of the heroes when later Uthmanic approach is like, yeah, stamp
of approval, kind of like origin was a universalist.
Later church people said, look, that we still reserved his writings, but he was a heretic
and they now don't consider him a saint or they downplay him.
Is it possible that there were other things like that going on, but because Uthmanic approach
became the solidified, like here is the one, that that's what we're seeing?
I don't know if that's the best way to...
No, that's a very good question.
So as I mentioned before, you know, if you look at the Poemcest, right?
So I mentioned that the level of difference between the text of the Poemcest and the Uthmanic text
is very minor, right?
Right.
And the grand scheme of things.
And I am personally not aware of anything that like shows or presents a different theology,
you know, than Islam like, oh, God is not one, Muhammad is not a prophet.
There's nothing that consequential if that makes sense.
You know, don't enter a house before you ask permission or before, I mean, little things
like that, you know, in the grand scheme of things, they're inconsequential to, you know,
big theological questions.
Of course, I don't want to dismiss like a lot of scholarly work, including myself.
It's all about the details, right?
So like I care a lot about the details.
I'm like, oh, wow, you know, sometimes a single letter can be very interesting.
But again, it's always helpful to step back and look at things from big picture.
And the differences are more, I don't know.
I mean, I don't know of anything that has a significant theological implication to it
of that magnitude.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, no, no.
That's a great point.
There are people who are watching this, especially if you're Christian, to take note.
I mean, it is what it is.
Facts are facts.
And this is what seems to be the case.
It seems they had a standard understanding, a standard theological doctrine.
Well, not.
So here's a different, here's the thing.
Understand is different from reading.
So there's one thing to read a text, but there's another thing to understand it.
So the theological interpretation is different.
In early Islam, there were definitely differences in theology.
And even till today, you know, that Shiite Islam has slightly different theology than
Sunni Islam, et cetera.
And even Ash-Adi within Sunnism, like Ash-Adi's and Ath-Adi's, they understand God and his
attributes differently.
I'm not trying to deny the existence of theological differences, lest people say, well, you've
marginalized what I consider to be a huge difference.
But that's different from the text itself.
Right.
That's also the point I'm trying to make.
So we also had like historic, we have, we had the Mu'tazidis, we had all kinds of things
like that.
But the key thing that I'm trying to point out is the text itself, there's nothing in
the Quran itself that is, that has changed or is present in a companion codex and not
the other one that has these large theological ramifications.
People, these different sects look at the same text and understand it differently and
say that, no, this text says X and someone else says no.
This says why.
So I want to make that point clear.
This is, oh man, this is an amazing interview, by the way.
I'm absolutely loving this.
I'm learning a lot.
This makes me think too, like if we think the reading traditions, just throwing it out
there as someone, you could tell them like a student asking a teacher.
In the reading traditions, if there were other ones that weren't Uthmanic, it's not like
they're reading off of a text that's so different if it is something like the Palimpsest.
Let's say there are primitive, just rearranging order and that's oftentimes what it is.
It's not even like the text is so different.
There might be a word or two, but the point is it's the same thing.
So my question gets down to a root kind of in saying even if they weren't Uthmanic readers,
they were still, in a sense, reading similar stuff.
Even if there were Palimpsest and potentially other fragmentary documentation or other Koran
that it's just ordering things a little different, it doesn't matter.
At the end of the day, it's the interpretation that you'll see that varies.
It's not the text ultimately.
Not saying there isn't differences, but it's like, pretty much we've got it.
We would give it a 99.9 on a test of saying this is really good, actually, especially
from that hold.
And so this is the argument, actually, that Behnam Sadagi and Mohsen Godarzi put forward is they say,
well, if we look at the Palimpsest, which has been radiocarbon dated, and so we have
very good ideas from the early, it's from the first half of the seventh century.
So it quite likely was written prior to or contemporary to the Uthmanic codification,
but it's a different text tradition.
But because these two things are so similar, the differences between it is highly
unlikely that what we're looking at is our differences due to oral transmission.
So this isn't me sitting down with my circle of students and just sharing a story with them.
And then they go off and later on, they write it down, or maybe they share it with someone else
or something like that.
And then at the level of just like, here's a gist of the story that I told.
And so what he argues is that there was a, but it's also not the same as the Uthmanic tradition,
which we've talked about, and which is like very clearly copied in writing because it's so
uniform. It's somewhere in the middle.
So he says, well, it was a hybrid.
Maybe some dictation took place, something like that.
But it's written oral transmission that was taking place.
And he says, well, clearly the Uthmanic text and the Palimpsest share a common ancestor
because of those similarities, and he posits that this common ancestor is the prophetic archetype.
So he says the commonality between them goes back to the prophet.
So that's their argument.
I generally find that compelling, but there are still, again, the devils in the details,
there are still question marks around certain aspects and like, was all of it, was this, was that.
But the general idea is that the text traditions, the two different text types are so close.
And so early and attested so early in time that really, at least we can say, if you don't want to say
it's a prophetic archetype, one could say that the archetype goes back to the time of the prophet,
if that makes sense.
Yeah, that's what I was going to say.
Like, like, obviously you couldn't prove it empirically, but it is heading, it's leaning
optimistically in that direction.
And I think that I have no problem with it.
That's why I say, like, I'm not saying, like, oh, I think this goes back to the prophet,
like, I know, I say, like, it wouldn't, it doesn't hurt.
Like, I don't get why people are trying to fight this as if this isn't something that could be the case.
And that's what makes me think that the tradition, if I may ask, because I said this to Dr. Nasser
on a recording, like, there's a tradition that the prophet never wanted, never had the Qur'an,
like, compile the Qur'an.
But that seems to be a later tradition, maybe.
So the question is, if the Qur'an does go back to the life, let's say, within the life or the
latter life of Muhammad, is it possible that that tradition is just not a not a true tradition that
Muhammad himself did not have this?
Because from what I understand, there's many traditions.
Sometimes the traditions contradict each other.
That's not the Qur'an and that's not the Sunnah, what not, you know, the life of the prophet and stuff.
These are traditions that even oftentimes a lot of Muslims say that's late.
We don't even agree that that could be embellished or myth or whatever.
And that's something I can appreciate.
I really do value that.
So the question is, that idea that that the prophet himself didn't want to compile the Qur'an,
isn't that a later idea or is that early?
So I would I would remove agency from didn't want to and leave it at did not, if that makes sense.
Right.
So according, at least according to most traditions, the prophet did not compile the Qur'an in a codex.
It doesn't mean he didn't have it written down.
So I mentioned before, like earlier on, I mentioned this figure by the name of Zay didn't have it.
And he did have scribes.
So he had people who sat down and it seems like it is historical that he had scribes.
So I just want to point that out.
So that, you know, whether he would dictate, put on or whatever, and they would write things down,
but he did have scribes.
So some chronic material was written, was all that written down, some of it, most of it.
I mean, we could go on about this all day.
My take on it is, who knows?
Like, I have no idea.
I think what's interesting, this is what I find very interesting.
When I look at a codex, even the earliest manuscripts,
whether it's the polymcester of Atmanikwan or any of that kind of thing,
it does not strike me that this is the first attempt.
This is a people's first attempt at producing a book.
That is my take.
I mean, knowing, you know, just the little bit I know about the history of writing in Arabic
and all that kind of stuff, I find it hard to believe that the culture that produced
these codices had never had a codex among them, if that makes sense.
So I think it speaks to the fact that, and we know this now because we have thousands,
and I mean, I don't even know, like many, many inscriptions all throughout Arabia
that are in Arabic, right?
So that the Arabic language, they're in different scripts, but they are in Arabic.
And what that shows is that there was writing taking place in Arabia.
And so I think that's an interesting area that is still very much under-explored and under-appreciated,
but that's just how I look.
And I think that's a much more interesting question, potentially, is like,
what was the written culture like prior to Islam?
Like, we have a very little idea of what that looks like, but maybe there's a,
maybe there's a Dead Sea Scrolls out there that we can discover one day that, you know,
we'll talk more about that.
A Dead Sea Scroll type of Islamic thing.
And yeah, this, you have a really good point.
And I think that that leans in the direction of saying there's definitely something prior.
I mean, you talked about Common Ancestor to the Palimpsest and the Uthmanic text.
So it seems like something might have been already developed in the works before that.
It's the same problem I run into to people who are too skeptical in my biblical stuff, right?
I have a guy yesterday wanting to dispute with me that Paul never existed.
And I'm like, so why do you say that?
And his first reasoning was, well, the earliest manuscript we have of Paul
dates 170 years or something after the life of Paul, right?
Okay. And he goes, and only one mention in First Clement.
So he starts to do these like hypercritical analyses of like, what is the empirical data
we have? And that restricts us.
And then he had this kind of conspiracy that Paul was invented to backdrop, like all of this,
it's more ad hoc than it is just, what does Occam's Razor tell us?
And this seems to me the most clear thing is that I have a hard time believing that Muhammad
himself was not actively in some sense, extremely impacted by the Judeo-Christian
background. That's just my opinion, right? Like I think, well, he comes out of the Abrahamic.
It's very clear that this is not a new thing. Even Muslims understand that.
And for me, I think he saw this and he had such an impact.
I have a hard time believing they didn't put pen to paper.
I have a very, or pen to papyri or, you know, something, you know what I mean?
It's just, it's tough for me to believe.
So sorry for getting excited and just telling you, I love this stuff.
I wish people would stop making polemics and arguing over silly stuff.
If you don't know and we can't prove it at the end of the day to say, look, this is what I think.
But I wouldn't make a mountain out of a molehill,
like antagonistically trying to jab at Muslims for this.
Because the scholarship is pretty on board, even like Sean Anthony, right?
Who's openly said like, you know, he's not a Muslim, but he's like, sorry guys,
this is good evidence that goes right back very close, you know, to the Prophet.
And I just wanted to add one comment, you know, there are, it doesn't mean we have all the answers,
right? So there are very interesting questions to do with source criticism, right?
So, you know, for example, where can we find mentions of certain stories or
pericapies in the Quran and things like that? Where can we place it?
How did they diffuse? I mean, there are all kinds of very interesting questions like that,
that we can talk about. And also like in terms of the composition of these narratives and
things like that, there's still ongoing and very early actually, like in chronic studies.
And whether or not we can date the actual text of the Quran as a whole to a specific time period,
which we just talked about, it has very little bearing on questions of source criticism,
if that makes sense. Yeah. And I love source criticism, as you know.
Thank you so much for taking the time to answer those. So I've got a couple more,
if you're okay with it and ready to take a job. Sure. Thank you. The companion of the Prophet,
Ibn Masud, am I saying that Masud, is said to have been opposed to the standard text of Utmam
and continue to teach his own reading with his own copy in Kufa. Is there any truth to these
reports? And I guess if there was any truth, you'd have to ask like, what kind of text would he
have had like a palimpsest? Would it be minor detailed differences, like what we see in just
order? Hard to know. But what are your thoughts? Yeah. So this is a very interesting question.
So just to point something out, which I didn't before, the palimpsest is not
the Ibn Masud codex, right? It's a codex of like an unknown companion, as Sauddagi would phrase it.
But did Ibn Masud oppose the Earthmanic codification, or did he have his own tradition and cling to it?
That seems, there's a lot of evidence that seems to point towards, yes, that is the case.
And I'll give you a couple examples. So for example, there are people writing in, let's say,
the late second century, early third century, like Ramarians, like there's a guy by the name of
Farhullah, he was a Qisa'i student, he was student of a Qisa'i, we talked about. And in his work,
so we don't have any companion codex that has survived. Okay. But we do have literary reports.
But I don't consider it the same as like, here's a hadith, here's this, and I'll tell you why.
Because Al-Farhullah, he is an eye witness to these codices. He says, I saw, like,
I saw in the codices of Ibn Masud, and he will say X, Y, Z, he'll say like, I saw this.
He even mentions like, there's a very interesting thing where he mentions, he says that
I saw the codex of a guy by the name of Al-Hadith Ibn Suaid, who was a student of Ibn Masud. He said,
I saw this verse written like this, it was a variant, just pointing it out. And he says,
it was like a transposition, and he says that his codex was buried during the reign of Al-Hajjaj.
So someone had dug this thing up, right? So like, a hundred years later,
and started looking through it, which I find like, so I wish he gave us more, but that's
all he says. He's like, this man, this Mus'haf was buried, you know, during the reign of Hajjad,
because he apparently cracked down on the Ibn Masud tradition in Kufa. And he's looking through
these manuscripts, these old codices, which is very interesting. So here we have someone who is
an eye witness who is documenting it in his book. So to me, that's, that is contemporary evidence
of the existence of codices that belong to a tradition ascribed to Ibn Masud, that is not
the earthmanic tradition. And then we have, well, and then what's very interesting as well is he
mentions things about orthography, like, oh, in the codices of Ibn Masud, there are certain words
that are spelled like this. And what's really cool is like, he couldn't have made this up,
because this is not part of the Hajjazi spelling tradition, which we find part of the earthmanic
text. And it's sort of a more in line with the old Nabataean Arabic spelling tradition. So it's
not like, so it speaks to the, it speaks to the historicity and accuracy of these reports. So we
have, we have sort of eye witness accounts of these things, but we don't have any unfortunately
surviving codices yet of these traditions. We can see remnants of these things in some manuscripts.
And I think that's an interesting subject, but we don't have like a whole codex of Ibn Masud.
Now to go back to your question, was that actually the case? It does seem to be the case
that Ibn Masud strongly opposed the earthmanic codification for a variety of reasons. You know,
it might be some ego, he felt that he was left out of the project and he was more deserving of,
of being the person in charge and things like that. And he had this very interesting saying,
he told people like, you know, like, like, conceal your, your, your codices, and maybe that's why
people buried them or hid them. But like, you know, and then he quotes the Quran, he quotes a
verse, he says, whoever clings to something will, will rise on a day of judgment with that,
which they concealed or which that would, which they held. And so he really, it really does seem
that, you know, the Ibn Masud tradition, it, it, it kind of was the last bastion in Kufa of,
of non-earthmanic traditions until it kind of slowly, you know, died out. That doesn't mean
there were not. Now, of course, there's some people who say, well, this, this never existed.
And this goes back to the Sabbath Ahrov. I forgot to mention this earlier. The interpretation of
the Sabbath Ahrov is that all these reports of companion codices and things like that,
they're all wrong. Like they, they're all false. They're all fabrications. And all the seven Ahrov
go back to the one earthmanic text. So that is an opinion out there, which I think I'm very comfortable
saying that doesn't seem to be a reflection of reality. And they say, all these other companion
readings are just exegesis. They're not actual codices. But then what do you do when someone
says, like, I saw with my own eyes, like in this book, this written, the poem says, which,
which attests a different textual tradition. So, yeah, that does seem to be like the wrong
opinion. But sort of come back. So Ibn Masud seems to have definitely had stuck to his tradition.
And okay, so things can get kind of complicated. Why? Because some people point to the legacy of
Ibn Masud. So even though his tradition died out, it doesn't mean his like, it doesn't mean his genes
died out. So if you think of it in terms of like genetics and DNA, his like the, the, the Kufan
readers, there, if you look at their readings, and you compare the different, the variants in
their, the canonical ones, even compared to the readings of other non-Kufans, you can see,
you can see traces of Ibn Masud, even though it's been harmonized with the russum, with the
arithmetic text, so that it doesn't really deviate, you see traces of the arithmetic reading left
over wherever it sort of, you mean the not Hispanic, but the, sorry, the Ibn Masud tradition,
I'm sorry, you see remnants of the Ibn Masud. So, so his lineage lives on. Now, some people will say,
well, for example, someone like Hamza, you know, they will say, because part of his lineage goes
back to Ibn Masud, that is evidence that Ibn Masud eventually decided to abandon his text and adopt
the arithmetic text. And I think they have it backwards. I think it's, it's, it's that the
Ibn Masud tradition was harmonized with the arithmetic tradition, as opposed to Hamza is a
reflection of what Ibn Masud eventually adopted, if that makes sense. Right. I have a lot, there's
a very, there are very good reasons why, and this is part of discussion in my book, but we'll have
to, we'll have to save that for a different time. But I hope that gives you a window into, like,
one very interesting question is how did these reading traditions form, right? If you think
about it, you know, there were other traditions that were non-Earthmanic that were around,
and how did they, how did they get harmonized with the Earthmanic text? How did they gel? How
did they crystallize? So another, so Ibn Masud isn't the only person who had another tradition.
There were many other ones, but he was perhaps the most famous. There's another companion by the
name of Ubay Ibn Kab. He had also his own tradition. How does, how does that stuff work its way into
the Earthmanic text? I think that's very interesting. And we have reports of other
companions also opposing or not liking the, so this goes into like, what's politics and what's
theology, right? So there's a theological point, which is that this concept of Ijmah or like
consensus, that because the Muslim community has arrived at a consensus of the supremacy or
authority of the Earthmanic text, that can be used to make certain historical claims,
which I don't agree with. So for example, there's a report about one of the students of Ibn Masud,
his name is Al Qama, but they traveled to Syria and they run into Abu Dada, who's another companion.
And Abu Dada, he says, hey, I guess, I guess he heard about a group of people coming over from
Kufa and he's like, anyone amongst you from the students of Ibn Masud? And Al Qama, he's like,
he's like me. And he says, hey, how do you read this chapter? It's wa layli idha yakhshah. He's
like, how do you read this? So the guy recites and he says, wa dhakari wa l-untha, which is
different than what's in the Earthmanic text, which is wa ma phala qad dhakara wa l-untha.
And he's like, aha, this is how I learned it from the Prophet, the exact same way. And then he says,
But which one is it that he said he learned from the Prophet?
So he agrees with Ibn Masud, right? So he says, aha, you have confirmed what I know,
which is this reading, not the Earthmanic reading. As for those people, they want me to read,
wa ma phala qad dhakara wa l-untha. They want me to read according to what's in the Earthmanic text.
By God, I will never follow them. So he categorically is opposed to following that reading.
So now the question is, now really, how historical is this narrative?
One could, depending on how skeptical you are, one could say that this narrative was constructed by
the pro-Ibn Masud people in order to show other companions affirming his reading. So it's like a
validation or an affirmation of his reading. And so, I mean, and then you can kind of,
this rabbit hole can go on and think, but whether or not you accept it that way,
we have reports of other companions either opposing readings in the Earthmanic text
or even younger companions like Ibn Abbas actually instructing his students to not read
certain Earthmanic readings and to read this instead. But I think the salient point is that
these different schools kind of die out over time and what really remains is the Earthmanic
tradition. So rather than it being radically different, like the early church in their
thinking of different cult groups, it seems more of an infighting in a political power struggle,
it seems. And I mean, like this probably is entering, there's so many minds in this
bomb field, you know, of trying to like enter in and figure out what's going on.
But it's not as radical as what we see obviously in the early church,
but there still seems to be, there's this tension and this tension is something I would love to
explore further with you at some point, maybe just like exploring little interesting rabbit
holes of like what this person did and what the, maybe what the arguments are surrounding it.
Because you may not even have an opinion, you may just, you may be like me where someone goes,
did Jesus exist? And I think there was a guy, but then someone goes, well, who was he? And
I go, are you ready for this? So let me give you 10 theories of like really interesting
ones about who the guy may or may not have been. And if you would take me on that journey one day,
I'm sure you know quite a bit about it, just the different things like taking that critical
approach, you really got my mind working because now I'm like, all right, yeah, there's people who
will say, for example, just to give you an example, there's a Valentinius, right? He's a,
he's from Alexandria, Egypt, who was a Gnostic, we call him a Gnostic or someone like that,
who said that he learned his teachings from someone who was taught directly from Paul.
But the church at large that went out says, no, we have someone who learned directly from Saint
Peter. Is this a competitive political move to say my movement came earlier and this is true?
Or is it all legend to try and bolster the claims of the person? I love this stuff. Nobody knows
for sure, but it's a fun exercise. So yeah, absolutely. And you do have, you know, one very
interesting thing tidbit is I mentioned Ubaib and Kab, you know, he was also like a big famous reader.
And apparently he got into hot water with Omar, you know, the second Caliph, because
he would recite Quran and he would lead prayers in like the prophets mosque in Medina and things
like that, that allegedly Omar would consider to be abrogated. He's like, why are you reading this
stuff, man? He's like, essentially the essence of his response is, who are you to tell me what I
can and can't read when I learned it directly from the prophet? So I mean, I guess my take on
these things is short of doing sort of the, the, my due diligence and really digging into it and
doing a lot of, a lot of work on analyzing and studying these reports and dating them and all
kinds of things like that. I use them to, because of the value that they give us in terms of how we
can understand the, how early Muslims received the Quranic text, how did they receive it?
These things like, and people who revere Ibn Masjid or people who revere Ubaib,
whether or not it's a real story, it's a historical narrative, it tells us something about how they
perceived that figure that they revered, right? And that I think in and of itself is a window into
the formation of the text, the, the transmission of the text, and also the early Muslim understanding
of the text. And that's where I see a lot of value. So when I say, when I share some of these stories
sometimes, it's not that I take it as historical or not historical, I take it as in every single one
of these narratives, right, gives us insight into early Muslim thought and the different factions
and the different groups. And there are reports that I will tell you, I think this is categorically
not historical. But why would someone like, what does it say about someone who would invent a story
about the Prophet doing X, Y, Z with the Quran or saying this or doing that? And what can we learn?
And that's what I think is very interesting. Yeah, it's an interesting thing you're describing
there because oftentimes that also can work as historical evidence for the existence of people.
Why are they venerated? I mean, we're gonna make up a fictional person that they're venerating.
This gets into a root of like, did Muhammad exist? Like, I see no reason why personally.
This, this is still disputed, but there are people out there, you know, that still want to
act like he didn't exist or something. And it's like, I don't know, it just seems really strange
to legendize a non-existent figure and to have this going on. But I mean, it's, it's a lot less
ad hoc to just go with this guy existed. And I say that to say, there are people who do that with
like the characters around Jesus, Paul, Peter. And you start to see like, why are they still
using this character, this person? There seems to be some veneration of a real person there.
And what you said about Omar, who's saying, no, no, no, we don't read it, we read it like this,
or what do you talk about? Well, I learned this directly from the Prophet, who are you to tell
me? To me, I even think like, I like to use historical exercise to think, is this anachronistic?
Like, could this be Omar trying to say, no, like, we're pointing toward Uthmanic text here,
which is after Omar is already here. Like, is some of this stuff kind of hinting at, hey,
we already have a standardized text, we're already going with Uthman, and you're already reading
something that's outdated or something. I don't know, you know, it's just interesting questions.
Well, thank you so much for this wonderful interview. I've had a blast. My brain has
exercised quite a bit here. I can't imagine what we didn't get into because it just piques my
curiosity to want to learn more. They did a really good job of documenting a lot of stuff. So
there's a lot to probe into. And I've said it before, this, I would love to see it,
could be a Netflix like series. I would love the history of Islam from, you know, prior to the
birth of Muhammad, all the way to like, all right, here, he has died. And the followers after the
caliphs, the whole nine, like, I would, and the influence and impact of his wife and like,
or his wife's, but more than one, they still had impacts after his death. And just the wars, you
know, the, what is it, the red camel, the red camel battle, like there's just so much to get into.
I love it. So thank you for scratching my itch and allowing me to interview you. I hope everybody
goes and checks out the website one more time. What is the website and what can people gain from it?
Yes, yeah, thanks for that. So, and thanks for this, this very interesting discussion.
So I definitely encourage people to check out xoep.org. So it's iqsaweb.org. And what we've just
done is we've launched a new platform. And what we're offering is we're basically offering
an opportunity to folks in the general public who are interested in the Quran,
we're interested in chronic studies, and who are interested in learning more about cutting edge
scholarship of basically getting content directly from our members. And our members represent the
leading scholars in chronic studies across the world. So we plan on offering everything from
webinars to some of our conference recordings. So sometimes it's difficult and expensive for just,
you know, folks to travel and attend these conferences. But when we have the opportunity,
we record and we publish on our website. So you can go check it out. We have recordings up there
from our past conferences. We have master classes. So are you really interested in
chronic manuscripts? And do you want to learn the basics? So we have a master class on that
coming up. Are you interested in other aspects of the Quran? We plan on offering all kinds of things.
And the last thing or one of the other things that we do have is a blog where we have contributions
from all of our members, again, across the spectrum across the world, who contribute
high quality blog posts highlighting their research and answering some of the cutting
edge questions and most important questions going on in chronic studies today. So if that's
something that you are interested in, definitely go check it out at xoweb.org.
I have to. In fact, when I decided to get into Islamic studies recently, this would have been
like the website I jump on immediately, which is still I'm still early on. So I'm going to
definitely be joining. I want to learn more, learn from the scholars, understand what I'm
talking about. And I hope you do too. So go sign up, check it out, see what the prices are. All
you got to do is go check out the website. And I'm sure there are many options for different
things that you're interested in doing. And in the long run, if I may say this, is you're not
only helping the scholars that are doing this work, you're also creating unity between the east
and west. And the inner faith dialogue and the continuation of appreciating each other's traditions
and respecting each other. This is this goes deeper than just I'm learning something. So
helping participate is doing a really humanitarian thing. And at the end of the day, you're helping
more than you realize by doing that. So Dr. Sid P, I hope that we can do this again, especially
when your book is launched so that we can actually take a dive into the some of the things you say
and get you some controversy. But seriously, this has been amazing. I appreciate you.
No problem. Thanks for having me. Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, if you are looking for
the one roof of MythVision, let me give it to you. We are MythVision.
