Go in the description, subscribe to the New Testament Review podcast with Ian Mills and
Laura Robinson. Ian Mills, can you educate me on who Marcion is? I've heard he was the
first guy I discovered or had a gospel or something. I'm ignorant. So everything Marcion, please.
So Marcion is a super important Christian figure from the beginning into the middle of second century.
He would, of course, be rejected as a heretic by later Christians. But nevertheless,
is super influential for sort of shaping the sorts of things Christians were interested in,
the sorts of things they were polemicizing against, and quite possibly even shaping the
New Testament canon or even giving us an idea of having the canon. Marcion is the first figure
we see who says we have these number of books as a Christians, and these are our scriptures
and nothing else is. He seems to be the guy who comes up with that. So Marcion is a guy from
Sinope. He's a shipowner, now tastes the word used to describe him. It probably means he is some
sort of merchant, probably owns a number of ships, and seems to have been very, very wealthy. He came
to Rome sometime around 140, maybe a little earlier than that. The dating, the sources are inconsistent
on when he came to Rome, but he comes to Rome and makes this huge payment to the Roman church,
which doesn't seem to be here in the mid-2nd century run by a single bishop. It seems to be
run by a college of presbyters, and he makes this massive donation. And then while he's there,
the timeline is probably impossible to reconstruct precisely, but there seems to have been a series
of controversies where it came out that Marcion does not believe that the God of the Hebrew Bible,
the God of the Jewish scriptures, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob is the same God
who is the Father of Jesus. There is a new God. Jesus reveals, according to Marcion, reveals
a new Father, a new God, and the God of the Hebrew Bible is a debate here, but is either a
wicked God or is a merely judicial God. And there's a question over whether or not
Marcion believed the other God was evil, which I think is probably the case,
or just merely a God of pure justice. So this, of course, becomes a problem in the Roman church.
It is fascinating that someone like this could have been incorporated at first without seeming
to have occasion to much controversy, but there's reasons to believe that the church in Rome,
being run as a series of churches with a series of leaders, was fairly diverse and inclusive.
We seem to have lots of people using different kinds of gospels, holding different theologies
who were at least all in conversation in Rome in the middle of the second century,
but he gets kicked out and his donation is returned to him.
At some point, whether this is happening already or only happens hereafter,
Marcion goes on to found a series of churches across the Mediterranean Empire.
These show up as, you know, in the Syria, we have the Marcionites, seems to have been the
mainstream kind of Christianity in the second century in Syria. We have Syriac sources,
written by proto-Orthodox, you know, mainstream, what we now consider the mainstream church,
who are complaining that the word Christian is used in Syria to refer only to the Marcionites,
and that when people talk about their kind of Christianity, the thing that we now think of
as Orthodox Christianity, they call them Pollutians or Socrates, which is they name them after their
means their bishop. Just like we talked about Marcionites being followers of Marcion,
it seemed that there are places and times where the thing that we think of as Orthodox Christianity
was named after just a random guy, a guy named Pollutian or a guy named Socrates.
So the Roman, the Marcionite Christianity spreads throughout the world, and we see already Justin
Martyr writing maybe 10 to 15 years after Marcion comes to Rome and this controversy happens,
says that Marcionites have covered the whole world, they're everywhere.
Marcion, in advocating this distinctive theology, can't simply use the same New Testament we have.
So Marcion has a significantly different New Testament. He has one Gospel and he has 10
Pollutian letters, and sources before and after Marcion of other kinds of Christian
groups and individuals writing seem to be very eclectic with their New Testament writings.
They have a mishmash of Gospels. We have, of course, the correspondence of Serapian with
the church in Antioch, where he's aware they're using this Gospel of Peter and that's no big deal,
and then he finds out later that the Gospel of Peter is used by a group he doesn't like,
and then writes back and says, okay, you should stop using this. There doesn't seem to be a canon,
there doesn't seem to be a solid list of books. There are certain books that are acceptable and
certain books that aren't, but people are using different books as they see fit.
Marcion seems to change that. He says there are only 10 letters of Paul we should use,
and interestingly there, that may not have been an innovation of Marcion. There's good reason to
think we have other Christians, facilities in Alexandria, P46, one of our earliest witnesses
to the Paulian collection. A 10-letter collection of Paul may have been the first kind of,
may have preceded it, may have preceded our 13-letter collection. The pastoral epistles,
1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, and Titus may be later editions. Most scholars agree Paul didn't write
those letters, and they may even reflect anti-Marcionan polemic. The pastoral epistles refer
to the knowledge falsely so-called, referring probably to non-sticks, and to the antithesis,
and the antithesis is the name of the work Marcion composed as a sort of prologue to his New Testament.
So there may be evidence that the pastoral epistles are actually aware of Marcion.
But backing up one second, we have the 10 letters of Paul which Marcion edited,
so he revised the content of these things. He cut out sections like Romans 9 through 11,
which talk about the history of Israel, God's interactions with Israel,
and he edited the Gospel of Luke. So he gets rid of the other Gospels, or maybe he doesn't know
them, it's really hard to tell. Tritulean does say he polemicizes against other Gospels, so it's
possible he did indeed know other Gospels, and seems likely a guy in Rome in the second century
would know of other Gospels. But he takes Luke and he edits that, so he cuts out chapters 1, 2,
3, with the exception of a single verse, and half of the fourth chapter, and then revises
stuff along the way. And there are scholars who believe that Marcion's Gospel was in fact
the first Gospel, or that Marcion's Gospel was the first form of the Gospel of Luke,
and that Luke is a revision of Marcion's Gospel. And I think there's good reasons to say that's
wrong, and this is part of my doctoral work. But this is a view that has attracted some serious
scholars. I just don't think dividends supports the view. This is fascinating, this material.
You mentioned something in passing, and I'm backing up to the Romans 9 to 11 thing.
You know, I interview Dr. Robert Price on the show all the time, and I'm going to be continuing
to grow this channel and interview more scholars. You're an expert when it comes to Marcion,
so I want to hear your opinion on this, and I'm sure that you have one. There are some people
who believe that Romans 9 to 11 don't fit in Rome, or in Paul's letter to the Romans.
You're not in that school of thought, you don't think so?
No, I don't think it's a very mainstream view. I think most Pauline scholars see Romans 9 through
11 as making a lot of sense in the letter of Romans, and I agree with them on that.
There isn't textual evidence to support the omission of this text. And the classic study on
this is Ulrich Schmid wrote a monograph on Marcion's Pauline epistles, and Schmid comes down with it
on this view as well, that Marcion indeed redacted the Pauline epistles in the second century.
And so, no, I think there's good reason to think that Marcion in fact revised these texts.
I know I'm asking you to somehow have a time machine and go back and figure out everything
Marcion thought and why, but his view, I guess you'd say, his view is on God.
Quite strange that he would go that far and say, no, this is a different God.
What do you think the reasoning, is there any writings that give you the reasons why he believes
this? Yeah, so we don't have any of Marcion's works surviving. What we do have are lots of
Christians responding to Marcion, and in doing so, they will quote his gospel, they will quote his
Pauline epistles, and they will reference the content of the antithesis. Now, the antithesis
I alluded to earlier is this preface that Marcion composed to the New Testament. And
it seems to have been a sort of, it's called the antithesis because Marcion is juxtaposing
the image of God we get from the Jewish scriptures with the image of God we get from Jesus.
And he's saying, look, Isaiah says that God creates evil, makes evil. Jesus doesn't look like that.
The Hebrew Bible has God commanding murder, has God creating a flood to wipe out the human
population, but Jesus doesn't. And so he's drawing out these contrasts. And of course,
we have Tertullian responding and saying, look, this is why God behaved one way in one time,
and differently in Jesus. And this is an age old problem that Christians have dealt with.
We have Christians dealing with this in lots of different ways across history.
Allegorical interpretation is very popular, of course, in the early church. And there's
other ways to talk about why it is to deal with difficult texts in scripture. Jewish
interpreters and Christian interpreters struggle with these things. Marcion's solution was a
radical one. Marcion's solution is that it's a different God. And we see the Gnostics, the
varieties of Christianity who believe that saving knowledge of some sort will save you,
many of them adopted a similar solution. So Marcion is sometimes grouped with the Gnostics,
although I think that's a fundamental misunderstanding of what's going on here.
They're both addressing issues that Christian and Jewish interpreters, Jewish interpreters from,
before Christianity existed, are wrestling with how to deal with difficult texts. And the Gnostics
and Marcion and origin of Alexandria, with this allegorical interpretation, are all coming up with
ways to address that. And so this is where we get Marcion's solution seems to have been to say,
these are different gods. He went out hard with a strong stance that it seemed convincing to many
people though, obviously, if it spread like wildfire, it makes you kind of wonder, I wish we
could see more into the past and really see what was going on. He was an ascetic.
Yes, it seems to be that he didn't believe in, he rejected sex, he was an advocate of fasting,
he was an advocate of prayer. In fact, if we look at Marcion's practice, well, the hints we get
about the way Marcion practiced his Christian faith, he actually looks very much like a,
like all the other Christians do. They gave money to the poor. Christianist thesis, I mean,
giving, saying sex is a bad thing was super common in Christian texts. Even, you know,
mainstream proto orthodox Christian texts, everyone seems to kind of agree with this.
And Paul seems to kind of agree with this. I mean, Paul says the better thing to do is to stop
having sex, but if you must, you can give into it so you don't burn, probably referring not to
going to hell, but to burn with passion and make yourself sick. So it does seem to be a mainstream
view. Marcion doesn't seem to be an outlier here. Marcion may have been a little more radical in
giving up, you know, sex entirely. But we see the same thing advocated in all sorts of non-Marcion
texts. We see one of the things that sets apart what we call the apocryphal acts, which are just
a bunch of narratives about what Christians are up to, as well as like early martyr stories,
is one of the things that often gets Christian Christians in trouble is you convert somebody's
wife. And that's a problem, because as soon as somebody's wife becomes a Christian,
they stop having sex with their husband, because apparently that's just what you do when you're
a Christian. And the husband does not take fondly to this. And we see similar things going on in
Justin's second apology, and there's all sorts of evidence to this. So one of the main problems
Christians ran into, and this is kind of alien in our post-Protestant, you know, nuclear family,
the thing that's important about Christianity is our belief in a nuclear family or something like
that. That is so alien to the Christianity we find in the New Testament and in early
Christian literature, where, you know, even Matthew has Jesus talking about people being
called to be eunuchs from birth, and he doesn't mean literal. He means people called to give up,
to practice aschesis, to give up sex and to give up food and to give up meat.
Lots of Christians were vegetarians, too. I mean, this is, yeah,
so Marcine doesn't seem to be not wired here. Marcine seems to fit into the Christian image.
Just to poke in their revelation, you know, the Book of Revelation, the Apocalypse of John gives
hints that the 144,000 are virgin Israelites, which is strange. How to make sense of that is
another question. I'm not going to unravel the Apocalypse of John today, and what is
literal and what is figurative in descriptions there as hard as it is. Gotcha. Well, I just think
it's interesting. How does that even line up with Judaism? Is this a strange thing? Because
Judaism seems to have more of a family-orientated type of religious movement. Sometimes, but we also
have testimony to the Essenes and the Theraputa, which are sort of like basically proto, I mean,
I shouldn't call them proto-monastic. They're monastic type movements in Judaism before Christianity
comes around and certainly contemporary with Christianity. We see all sorts of, you know,
people living in the desert. So, no, I don't think, I mean, it is absolutely true that there are
elements of Judaism that are sex-positive, but Judaism, like every other movement, is a
lots of different kinds of people doing very different things. And, you know, if you read
Philo and stuff, you find various philosophical approaches to advocate forms of eschisis and
self-denial. So, I look forward to seeing your book on what you write on Marcion with his gospel
redactions and stuff, because if there was a Luke that was private, that's very complicated and
complex, but I do think it's interesting. And the last thing I'd like to ask about Marcion,
because we could really go in more and spend more time delving probably on details, is he was rich.
How does that work? I mean, you're supposed to be like, I don't know.
Fascinating question. We don't know. We know so little about the situation of Christians,
the economic social situation of Christians at the beginning of the second century.
We get hints that, you know, there apparently were people who were close to the emperor who
were Christians. At the same time, Celsus seems to say, Celsus, who is preserved for us only in
origins against Contra Celsum, criticizes Christianity as being a movement of the poor
and of widows and of, you know, the social drags of society. And we see similar things
in Lucian's passing of Peregrinas. Another pagan, this time his work does survive,
and seems to suggest that Christians were, you know, viewed as a movement of a popular movement
that was associated with the poor and the outsiders. At the same time, Peregrinas in this
narrative pretends to be a Christian in order to get hold of their generosity. And so there are
people who have money to be generous with. And Peregrinas doesn't seem to have been forced to
give up, renounce everything, at least not right away, I forget exactly how that narrative plays out.
But so there is some connection to, there is some evidence that mainstream Christianity was
a movement of the poor.
