I'm not the first person to have suggested that the author of the book of Revelation,
though a skillful author and aware of the Septuagint, so he's intelligent, but he also
is paranoid.
Chapter 17 ends with the woman you saw is the great city that rules over the kings of
the earth.
That can't be Jerusalem, that's obviously Rome.
They may think that Jesus is coming back soon in a victorious way, that there will be a
vindication, a divine vindication and salvation of the world, and we don't have to care for
the environment.
I was a full Preterist for a long time, which meant that everything was fulfilled, and the
book of Revelation was 70 AD, it was nothing after that.
Domitian, get out of here with that stuff, it's all Nero.
So a debate took place between a full Preterist and a futurist, someone who believes Jesus
is coming in the future.
They argued over a Revelation 18 and the woman sitting on seven hills.
The Preterist argues that this is Jerusalem in order to keep the fulfillment of the prophecies
to 70 AD.
While the other side proposes the harlot is Rome sitting on the seven hills.
The Preterist wants to date the book of Revelation of pre-70 AD, or right around there, while
the other side dates Revelation to 96 AD.
Which side is correct and why?
I mean, obviously the later date, Babylon is Rome, there's no doubt about that.
That's absolutely right.
I mean, it's got to be Rome.
If you've been to Rome, you know there are seven hills, but this is an opportunity to
deal with the book of Revelation in a more global way, and I'm going to advance the hypothesis
that the author is suffering from PTSD, and that he's a survivor of the Jewish war, and
we know that there were several immigrants, probably many, that left Judea and probably
Galilee and settled in West Asia Minor.
We know the names of some of them, and we have evidence of shared traditions in Western
Asia Minor and Judea, which is really quite otherwise difficult to explain, and I can
get into that if you wish to.
The author thinks that there's going to be a large number of martyrs, perhaps 144,000,
but certainly there are the martyrs who are under the altar.
When their number is complete, then Jesus will return in victory somehow.
But he only names one person who has died, although the author, according to the narrative
frame, is in batmos, perhaps awaiting execution, and that's the way he's been understood
in by Christian tradition to some extent, although it's usually thought that that's
John the son of Zebedee, and that certainly can't be the case.
The reason that I'm interested in this PTSD is that my wife is a therapist who studies
PTSD on a regular basis and has dealt with doctoral students who themselves have been
in the military and have come back from Afghanistan or Kuwait or other wars and are suffering,
and there's a paranoia about upcoming devastation and warnings for people to envisions and so
on, and I'm not the first person to have suggested that the author of the book of Revelation,
though a skillful author and aware of the Septuagint, so he's intelligent, but he also
is paranoid, and you have a level of paranoia and militarism and eagerness for divine punishment
of one's enemies that is unparalleled, at least in the New Testament, so I think that's
another reason for saying that the beast has to be Rome.
And it's actually Revelation 17. 18 continues the narrative, but the specific detail, the
seven heads, which is obvious reference to the seven hills of Rome, famous description
of Rome, but the chapter 17 ends with, the woman you saw is the great city that rules
over the kings of the earth. That can't be Jerusalem, that's obviously Rome, and the
whole idea of the adulteries that she committed and the abominations, it's all references
to paganism. And the ships that come in with commerce, it's very hard to get to Jerusalem
by ship. Interesting. Right, and it says that she sits by many waters, because Rome is in
the center of the whole sea. Elaine Pagel said when I visited her, she had an interesting
take on this, what you're talking about, and this goes in the vein of both of you guys.
She said John is Island of Patmos near Ephesus, you know, it's not far. He's probably walking
in the city, seeing the statue of Domitian, 20 feet tall, massive pagan guy sitting here
with a temple in Ephesus that has 30 carvings with images, with one Nero has a knife to
a slave girl's throat, and she's trying to ward him off, and he's cutting her throat
to kill her, and she represents a nation, and there's 30 of these nations that are being
captured in these still pictures. In Ephraim, D.C.S. too. And one of them is Israel, conquered
by Rome. And here's John looking at this temple, looking at this, and going, oh God, you can't
sit back and let this keep going. Like, you're gonna have to intervene. And so that's her,
he's taking that position. You're talking about like, retribution has to happen. Oh, how long,
oh Lord, you know, the crying from beneath the throne, how much longer? And it's gotta
happen.
Yeah, and several commentators have noted that there might be allusions to the eruption
of Asuvius in the construction of revelations, because that was a great tragedy that occurred
in 79 A.D. So this author would be within 10 to 15 years of that event. And a lot of
the description of how they're imagining Rome being destroyed is really evocative of
that. And you'd mention the ships, which is, this makes both points here. This is in 18,
so Revelation's 18. Every sea captain and all who travel by ship, the sailors and all
who earn their living from the sea will stand far off when they see the smoke of her burning,
they will exclaim, was there ever a city like this great city? They will throw dust
on their heads and with weeping and mourning cry out, whoa, whoa to you, great city, where
all who had ships on the sea became rich through her wealth. In one hour, she has been
brought to ruin. And then goes on and on about the destruction.
This is like Linnie's description, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah, it's very much like this. It's gonna be just, it's just gonna be gone. It's
vaporized and referenced to ashes even.
And he's riding from a boat.
Correct, yes. So obviously there's another reason you can't be Jerusalem. You can't
really, I don't think you can see Jerusalem burning from a ship at sea. I think that's
actually literally impossible, thanks to the curvature of the earth. But I haven't done
the math on that, so I don't know. But you could be Rome, right? You could see Rome.
Any city on the coast of Italy, like Rome, you could see this, like Pompeii or Herculaneum.
And the reference to ashes too, is like it evokes the same thing, which you can imagine
like someone with PTSD, like you're saying, like if they were there or had read about
it, like how that would evoke in them like the same kind of terror that they would now
want to visit on Rome, almost as if God's fireball missed, hit the wrong city, right?
But it's going to come and hit the right one soon, you know. That's the imagination.
But it's clearly Rome that he's imagining that of. It can't be Jerusalem.
One more vein, because we can go into so much on these things and get lost. But Nero, Nero
being the beast, it's obvious. Neon Kaiser fits the description of the number of a man.
Yeah, I think it fits both numbers, right? Both 616 and 666. I've seen different constructions.
But it goes deeper than that, because Nero being this horrific beast of a character from
both the historians who are both pagan, as well as what we see described in the New Testament
book of Revelation. When we look at Nero though, and he is killed, supposedly, there's a myth.
And I can't remember what this myth is called.
Nero, he's going to come back, right?
Correct. Yeah, this is a going, pagan notion. I haven't looked into whether that theory is
incorporated with Revelation, but it definitely comes up in 2nd century, other apocalyptic
texts. This constant fear of the return of Nero would be the final anti-Christ kind of
thing.
Well, you have it in the book of Revelation.
Oh, that's right, you do, yes.
There was a beast who was and is not and shall be. He's one of the seven. Da, da, da, da.
It's got to be Nero to be this.
Yeah, when you do the math with the, because they go through the stages of the emperors.
That is a big, right?
Which is another point, because that's the stages of the emperors goes past the Jewish
War. So whoever's writing this is clearly long past the Jewish War. So they're talking
about something in their future, and they're trying to imagine, they're clearly in the
reign of the mission, or at least they want you to think they are, because that's how
they're constructing their vision. And they're predicting the end anytime now, and it's going
to be the return of Nero will be the final doom.
By the way, there are two other really destructive things about the book of Revelation in modern
readership. One is the glorification of divine vengeance and violence. So that, and I'm
showing my colors, but the other is that if people read the book of Revelation as though
the book of Revelation is a revelation to them, they may think that Jesus is coming
back soon in a victorious way, that there will be a vindication, a divine vindication
and salvation of the world, and we don't have to care for the environment. We don't have
to worry about racism or nationalism or whatever. And I grew up in a fundamentalist background
too, and my father was a dispensation list, and he thought the book of Revelation was
written for the 20th century, and that we don't have to worry about some of these things
because God's going to bail everybody out. Well, I don't think there's a God, and a God
or not, we've got to bail ourselves out, and we can't use all of this wishful thinking
to justify polluting the planet.
Yeah, to pile on to what we were talking about earlier, it's important for context for people
to know that it was widely believed that Nero was responsible for burning Rome the first
time in 64. So you can see how the rate of Eva's theory, oh, Nero will come back and
he'll finish the job, the idea, from whatever means that it happens. But as you can see
all of this tying in, in concept.
Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us, but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier, all on the Patreon, Early
Access. You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and
you're helping MythVision grow.
