Who was Jesus with Acharya S? Astro Theology? Christ Myth Theory? All these variety of ideas
she had brought to the table. Brilliant woman. You're going to hear from some of her fans and
some of the ideas surrounding how these affected our lives and our knowledge and our understanding
of Jesus and all the gods or at least the ones we understand. Hope you guys enjoy it. If you have
something to contribute go down in the comment section. Let us know your thoughts of Acharya S.
DM Murdoch and don't forget to like, subscribe, and share. Your host, Derek Lambert.
We are MythVision. Your host, Derek Lambert. Your other host, Dr. Luther G. Williams.
We have Miguel Connor from Aonbite Gnostic Radio joining us today. How you doing, Miguel?
Good. Glad to be on with you guys. Luther?
Always a pleasure, Derek. How are you guys doing? Great. And we have Batman. Can we hear the voice
of Batman for a second here? This is Batman. And today's show is Who Was Jesus with Acharya S?
I just want to read something before we just rabbit trail. None of this is preplanned.
This is off the cuff. And Dorothy Milne Murdoch was born in March 27th, 1960. She died on December
the 25th of 2015, the winter solstice, better known by her pen names, Acharya S and DM Murdoch.
Was an American writer supporting the Christ myth theory. Jesus ever existed
as a historical person, but was rather a mingling of various pre-Christian myths,
sun deities, dying and rising deities. Her last published book is Did Moses Exist?
The Myth of the Israelite Lawgiver. She wrote and operated a website focused on history,
religion and spirituality and astro theology. She asserted the pre-Christian religious
civilizations understood their myths as allegorical, but Christians obliterated evidence by destroying,
suppressing literature after they attained control of the Roman Empire, leading to widespread
illiteracy in the ancient world. Ensuring the mythical nature of Christ's story was hidden,
she argued the Christian canon as well as its important figures were based on Roman,
Greek, Egyptian and other cultural myths. Her theories are variously received by mainstream
scholars. For instance, Dr. Robert M. Price. He criticized her book at first and then praised
her later. She also wrote against the ancient astronauts theories and all sorts of ideas.
She's spoken many languages and read in many languages. This woman was a scholar-scholar
and I just want to introduce her as that. We hope to resurrect her spirit in this conversation
and I hope you guys stay tuned and enjoy the show. Whoever would like to start us off,
I'm just here for the ride. So if you guys have something you'd like to say, please feel free to
do so. Bueller? No, I was just thinking, looking at the Wikipedia article and it's amazing that
her book Christ's Conspiracy came out in 1999. It was a completely different world and
when I think about it, her work was not, it fueled so many different movements and opened
so many doors. The mythesis was just a small part of it, but it really helped, it fueled the free
thought movement, the new atheists movement, the pagan movement. I think people, the UFO
movement, when you would go to Chariot forums back in those days, the early 2000s and so forth,
it was a huge motley crew. I mean, it really was the big tent and scholars, again, pagans,
ufologists, atheists, open-minded Christians would all congregate there. So she was, I mean,
she was a walking Alexandria of ancient times. So it's amazing how cutting is what she did and,
of course, how controversial it is because sadly, I was also thinking last night,
you know, the internet back then was very different. It wasn't woke like it is today
and I guess in a way it was better because you didn't get these hordes of woke people trying
to cancel you out when one person decided your idea was not popular, but at the same time,
people could be really vicious to each other one on one and sadly, Chariot definitely gave
credence to the idea of, you know, Gamergate and the Bro culture because her work was cruelly
received and there was not, it was received negatively, but a lot of even scholars and
thinkers would attack her for being a woman, which was completely out of line. I mean, they didn't
attack her ideas, but they would attack her or they would just online in an article, you know,
throw insults at her. So she had a, it was a weird paradox. She had an uphill battle. She had all
these amazing people that really gravitated to her work, but she also had to deal with attacks
from fundamentalists from atheists because many in the new atheist movement hated the
mythic position because for them, it was important that there was a historical Jesus so they could
bring down his ideas and religion. If there was no historical Jesus, they kind of didn't have an
argument. Nobody had an argument unless you go into the, you know, the myth, the metaphor and all
that beauty that attracted me to a chariot. But again, the power of myth, I saw her very much
taking the torch of some thinkers as Joseph Campbell and Carl Jung when mythology is not
just stories, but it really is the inner process of the human being and how we stand in the universe,
how we can become transparent to the transcendent and reach out and expand our consciousness out
into whether the spiritual world or a better form of living and so forth. She really was a pioneer
in so many ways. And again, it's, it's a great light went out and she's definitely sorely missed,
but it cannot be overstated enough that she was a pioneer in so many ways. I don't think,
I don't think the internet or religious studies or even culture would be the same without her
work and her contribution. I agree. She was one of a kind. I mean,
I had come to these positions without even knowing that she existed. And when I found her,
someone introduced her to her material to me, I was just blown away that somebody else believed
like I did, you know. And so over the years, I became friends with her. I actually like created
the covers for her astrothiology calendars that she used to produce. And I even did the cover for
her last book before she passed away, the Moses book. And she was just a very intelligent,
smart. I mean, she was so smart. I just don't think her work gets the credit that she deserves.
The number of citations and the number of people that she consulted. And I mean,
experts in their field. And, you know, I just feel that
she gets so much criticism without people reading her material.
And I just wish that would change.
Yeah, I mean, that's when you're a groundbreaking thinker that's just going to happen. I mean,
she was a trailblazer and her idea, she was uncompromising. She was aggressive.
Her mind, again, is those people that you fall in love with the way her mind work because they're
always working things out, always looking for different insights into scholarship,
never resting and continuing going. I remember my first encounter with Acharya was years before
I even read her book, sort of. I think it was 1999 or around there. And there I could relate.
I had just gotten out of rehab or I'd been out of rehab. So I was in sort of the pink cloud mode.
And I was dating an Indian girl, beautiful Indian girl, very smart. She was probably more secular
at the time than she would have been Hindu. And she came by my apartment and gave and says,
you've got to read this. And there was a stack of photocopy papers on the Christ conspiracy
comparing Jesus to Horus and all that and the 12 and it blew my mind. I was like, this is it.
This is where I need to be. And at the time, I was pretty much, I was sort of this fusion.
I was a practicing Catholic who would go to church on Sundays, but I was also really into
Buddhism, Mahayana Buddhism. So I would go to the Buddhist temple on Wednesday. So I was pretty
open minded. But these ideas, for some reason, I found it's oddly, you would think that I would
have found that sort of would have rejected them or felt uncomfortable when you get a new idea
that goes against the religion you were raised for most of your life back then 30 years of my life.
But it felt just so natural because again, it really opened up the power of myth and the whole
lattice, the beautiful mosaic that is religion and religious studies across the world that Jesus
would have so many parallels to Horus, to Krishna, to Buddha. And it was incredible. And then years
later, probably about five years later, I bought the Christ conspiracy and I think I sat down for
six hours at a coffee shop in Chicago and read the entire thing. I emailed her. I had already
later I'd started my podcast and she was one of my first guests. I emailed her and I said,
I love your work. And she was just so kind and down to earth. She gave me like two interviews
in a row. I'm sure you guys know it's always great when you get started. And you always remember
those scholars or bestseller writers who are so down to earth, so casual that they're like,
sure, let's have a conversation up because I'm great. That's what I got about a chair. It wasn't
like I have all this knowledge and and I want and this is that I enjoy talking about this
with anybody who wants to have an intelligent, engaging conversation. And that was so great. And
she was a guest for many years. And then we started, we would talk on the phone and
correspond and we became friends. And it was a it was a great experience.
She was awesome. I mean, just listening to her, if she was still alive today,
me and Luther would obviously be fighting you, Miguel, over who's getting her for the next show.
Because she was that good. I mean, she did a good, what I like to call, she was a bridge between
New Age, mythicism and atheistic myth, mythicism. And really, you couldn't put your finger on her.
At one moment, she sounded atheistic. And then the next moment, she sounded New Agey. And you're
like, this woman's too good to be true. Like the world can't keep this woman. And this is why she's
not here today, I like to think. Because, you know, it was hard. It's hard to tell exactly where she
was. She wouldn't come out public and say, what I believe doesn't matter. She says that very openly.
It really doesn't matter. Look at my work. Look at what it says. It speaks for itself.
And me and Luther really were influenced by that Batman. I'll edit that. Who's that? Who's
that guy you just mentioned? I've never heard of him. Batman. These are not the droids you're
looking for. I'll edit this. So, but his name is on the thing. Yeah, I'm going to slap a picture
over that. Yeah, I'll cut it. I'll make sure it's in your copy. But yeah, you patch that roof. Don't
leave any of it unrepaired. I wanted to ask you guys, if we could take this from the work that
she did, right, that what we're doing is right now, we're kind of just giving our heartfelt,
you know, toward what she did. Let's talk about some ideas on mythicism that she brought to the
table. Some of the Sun deity concepts, the astrothiology stuff, if we can talk about some
of these ideas and just have a little fun, and some of our audience may not have heard
of these ideas. So I don't know if you'd like to start us out, Luther, or Batman, or Miguel,
it doesn't matter. I just want to hear some astrothiology stuff and think that you heard
that she taught that made you go, Oh, because I will be same way.
Yeah, well, before we get into the specifics, let me say I was tremendously influenced by her,
but too late to have known her personally. And so at the time, I had a background in esoteric
research in the Bible for about a decade. And I became familiar with her writings. And immediately,
I was thinking along the lines of her work as a synthesis of the various types of esotericism is
what I wanted to do. And then she also was a great synthesizing influence, as Miguel pointed out,
and as Batman did too. So I was more committed than ever after reading the Christ conspiracy,
and a few other of her articles to ground the esoterics that I was doing in theoretical perspectives.
And so I did that, whether we're talking about Anomatology, the study of the meaning of names,
or celestial imagery, or Gamatria, which is which is really my specialty in the main thrust,
all that really came from her and most recently Roman Providence theory. And so
she sat down shortly before she died. Our viewers may be aware with Joe Atwell and talked about
the some possible lines of confluence between New Age mythicism and Roman Providence theory.
Well, I heard that and I believe that that's a very important direction for the research
to follow. And so I committed myself to really continuing her work in that area. And so
right now, I'm working assiduously in connecting esoterics with various theoretical perspectives
and most notably Roman Providence theory that's reflected in the brand new book that I have coming
out, and her work, her open-mindedness, and the thoroughness of her scholarship is indispensable
in the kind of things that I'm doing. And I let Joe Atwell know that. He actually sat down with her.
But it's so important for this kind of scholarship and this kind of perspective
to be present in our world today. You know, since, oh, I guess for the past five years,
most definitely, you know, we've had things like, you know, the election of a populist president
in the United States, the Great Britain, the people of Great Britain deciding to leave the
European Union. And so there's this rise of populism. And so I think Atarya's thrust in that
really anticipated this kind of movement in the area of scholarship, because now scholars are
asking questions which were never asked before, and not just the questions themselves, but the
motivations for those questions. And of course, then you look at what makes asking those questions
possible or profitable. So you talk about even funding sources. Are they available? Because
every area that scholars go into, there has to be some impetus in order to launch it and to sustain
it. And Atarya was brave enough to tackle a lot of these areas. And that's why some call her a
pseudo scholar. She's not a real scholar. But if you listen to the super scholars, like Dr. Robert
Price, who we've had many times on the show, he doesn't question at all her scholarship. And in
fact, considers it to be so immense, and her legacy to be so complex, that no scholars have
have exhibited that kind of breadth. And even he himself has said, boy, if I have to tackle
the kind of the kind of information that Atarya was used to dealing with, I don't know if I could
do it. So I think now the kinds of questions that we're beginning to ask in the research, it's
reflective of the age in which we live. We are studying the motivations behind scholarship. We're
asking the why questions and the who questions. Those are the ones that prompted the meetings
between Atarya and Joseph Atwell. Those are the kinds of meetings that are reflected in my writings
now. And so when you talk about Roman provenance and, you know, why, what are we actually seeing
here? What's the politics that's behind it? She shot the arrow pointing toward all these things.
And so I'm very grateful for her work. Well, Luther, if you don't mind me piggybacking off that
two things real quick before we jump into detail, so I'm sure we all we could literally do a show
only on how magnificent she truly was. And I mean, wouldn't hurt me none. You know, this is just
she's such an awesome person. But I've heard personally firsthand, and then no Dr. Price
does not mind me sharing this information. He's supposed to do the follow up Christ
conspiracy, the second book to complete it on her behalf because she's not with us anymore.
He told me and I'm asking about Astro theology over and over with him. And he was like,
she was looking at so many sources, so many things. He said that he himself could not complete
the second Christ conspiracy. He had to send it to someone else that he knew had a vast
understanding of this, this world of literature that is astro theological mythological nature to
tell you these celestial stories and myths in a way that he has never looked at them.
So it was way overwhelming to him to be able to really get all that. And number two, I was detoxing
on a couch as a fundamentalist, preterist believer and turned on this video that had this weird image
with 12 signs. And it was called zeitgeist. And I was like, hold on, I sat down for a few hours.
Now mind you, I didn't know how accurate or inaccurate don't really care at this moment.
I'm watching something that made me look at Jesus in a whole new way. I had never thought
is Jesus. He there was no comparison to Jesus. Even if there is some as a fundamentalist Christian
we're taught. And as a Christian period, there are no real comparisons to Jesus. I mean,
Mahapagandha, yeah, he might have been a nice guy. But yeah, he might have been cool.
Jesus, there's nothing that compares to Jesus. I mean, we got songs like that, you know, nothing
compared, you know, all the Christian songs that are in church and stuff that sing these things,
nothing compares to you, right? Well, this video showed me that there were things that compared
to it, even though skeptics come on and go, they over parallel this, this, that, blah, blah, blah.
I didn't care. There was enough for me to see and go, okay, I need to start treating Jesus
like I do any other deity at this point. I need to consider, is there more of a connection between
why he exists and looks like he does and why these others look like they do. And that's when my whole
world as a Christian no longer was Christian. It was humanity. That's what Acharya taught me.
She taught me to not be a Christian, but to be a human, a human being in this world with other
humans and how to love you for whatever your tradition is. You're a Buddhist, you're a Muslim,
you're this, okay, we all have tradition. But let's go to the bone, the very fabric of all
foundations to everything we all hold sacred. And there you'll find something celestial in nature.
That's great. That's awesome. Wonderful.
Inspirational stuff, brother. Yes, all humans, all the same. Well, we all share the same stories,
the same archetypes, same archetypal images. So I think that was, that was our passion as
much as it's my passion and those people here is that commonality, that source material, where do
we come from, and what we can share, the struggles, the visions, the dreams that we share as a person.
I mean, what it was that Carl Jung or Campbell said, myth is a public dream and dreams are
private myths. This is where we stand. I mean, there is that line from the Terry Pratchett novel.
There's the death character and the lady asking, well, humans, do we need to believe in fantasies
to cope with reality? And he and death goes, no, you need to believe in fantasies to be human.
You have no choice. And she's like, well, why do we get delusional? And she said, and death goes,
you need to believe in things that aren't true. How else can they become? And it is true. I mean,
imagination, inspiration. What did William Blake, what was invented today, was imagined yesterday.
So, and these stories, these ancient myths fueled us. I mean, if we didn't have the myth of Icarus,
would the airplane be invented? Who knows? But that story was, again, it was a thrust. It's behind us
to go to the moon to find diseases, to, I mean, so much is dependent on these ancient myths from
all over the world that it really fuels. But I'm sort of getting into, I'm taking from Derek's
like inspirational speech about how things are. And I should say too, and I was supposed to be
talking about the solar parallels, but one of the, she was a very open-minded person. She had
vision, she had insights, but she got criticized a lot in Christ's conspiracy because there were
sections about John Allegro and the mushroom that Jesus was a mushroom. There was things, maybe
about aliens, about how there's salt on the pyramids. But what I didn't see her as sort of new age,
what I saw as she was basically just said, look, everything you believed in as a Judeo-Christian
is false. So let's speculate on a few more things. And she was just putting it out. Let's speculate
on this, let's speculate. She wasn't committing to anything. I mean, the only thing she was 100%
committed to was Jesus was the son. I mean, you could see that going, but everything else was
a speculation. And she would modify her arguments. I remember we did one show and I asked her,
well, are the Anunnaki aliens? And she's like, no, I have, I was open-minded about it. I did the
research, I looked at the source material, the language, I realized there is no chance. Of course,
she got blowback because then she would show me all these people unsubscribing from her
website. The ufologists were furious at her because no, the Anunnaki are aliens. But
she took everything on a case-by-case basis. And again, she was very open-minded. I know
later on, she, towards I met her, she suddenly, her big issue was Islam. She decided that Islam
was bad. She, she had somehow drank the apocalypse bucket and thought that by now we would all be
under Sharia law and all this other stuff. But that was, she had decided that's one, one route she
was going to go. I think Luther was talking about, well, we have these, we have this populist
president and all that. And I always, and I always think, wonder what a chair would have
thought about Trump. She would have thought he was a Bulgarian ignorant guy, but she also believed
in strong borders. I mean, you couldn't put her in a, you couldn't pigeonhole. She kind of took
every issue by issue and never dismissed any person just out of hand as this person believes in
this. So she would agree with a lot of conservatives and she would agree with a lot of liberals on
a lot of issues. There was no issue. I agree with that, Miguel. Pigeon-holder. You know, she, yeah,
she was just about impossible to, if you try to pigeon-holder, you know, you'd be frustrated in
the attempt just a little while up the line. I think about this term Christian that Derek spoke
so eloquently about, you know, do we, do we really know what a Christian or an anointed one or a
messianic, what those things really mean? We're still trying to discover that. We're still trying
to discover what all this means about us. And I think ultimately Acharya helped us learn about
ourselves. How do we, how do we reconcile the human and the divine? What does that mean? The
urging of man towards the divine? And what does it teach us about ourselves? And I think we're still
learning. I don't know what to call it because as we, as we discover these things, there is the urge
to label them. I think that's not just scholarly, that's human. And so, you know, you can't call it
Christian because it's bigger than that. Or maybe you can if you desire to hijack the term from
orthodoxy and say, well, I'm going to use it in a different way. And then that has its own problems.
But I think she put us on this great path towards self-discovery and she's going to be recognized
as one of the major figures to, to launch that effort. Yeah. And I think it's important is she,
she told us to again look at the stars. I mean, because part of her thesis was that all these
biblical characters, all these ancient figures across time are based on the processes of the
star and the zodiac and the movement of the universe, which is something scholarship has
basically completely forgotten. And you guys, we both had John Lundwall, who basically says he's
100% rise. Robert Price agrees. I mean, how can you be a scholar of religion and not know astronomy?
If you don't know astronomy, you're probably wasting your time because that is how the ancients
talked about as above so below the theory of correspondence. There was really no separation
between the process of the stars and who we were. I mean, the sky was like the internet,
it was our, the Wikipedia, it was the television, it was the place where you documented your
stories all at once. It was like Google, but cooler, right? And that's how the ancients thought.
And scholarship got well not lost, it just evolved into linear thought into a historical
thought and completely forgot how the ancients did. And I mean, scholars have admitted that
most things like the gospels or thunder, the perfect mind in the Nakamari library and all
this, these things were never just read because nobody read in ancient times. It's illogical
that people would sit there and read these things only maybe less than 1%. So these things were
performed out in place under the stars different times of years to really, you know, take effect
on the followers and get people interested. And so they could relate to the times of the year and
the stars as a mnemonic device. So Acharya really brought this back. And I mean, I brought it back
because as you guys have probably heard in the founding fathers, Napoleon, this Martin Luther
King Jr. talked about the similarities of Jesus and Mithras in a lot of his papers. This was in
the air, it was normal. And in the last generation, everybody forgot about it slowly in this amnesia.
And Acharya really brought it to the forefront. And hopefully people won't forget. I know it's
hard to look at the stars because so much pollution that we've all screwed things up and nobody wants
to get a telescope. We just bought our son a telescope. So hopefully we can get him to look
at the stars. So, you know, why read the Bible? I'll tell my son, it's all up there, man.
Oh, go ahead. Go ahead, Batman. Yeah, I was gonna say, you know, it's funny, Miguel,
that you bring that up about the stars because when I was growing up, I was 16 years old and
Star Wars came out. And probably the greatest myth of our generation. And it influenced my life so
much. I remember paying over 40 times to see the movie as a kid. I went to the theater that many
times. And after that, I lost count. I remember sneaking in a tape recorder under my coat. And I
would even tape the dialogue. So my brother and I, we would recite it at night. And I knew that I
wanted to get in that industry. I had never seen any movie like that before. And so I became a
student of Joseph Campbell, because of George Lucas's influence by him. And so I was never able
to go to film school or move out to California. What I wanted to do. So the next best thing was,
I became a senior designer for a company that's known all across the world for the movies and
and entertainment that it provides. And I got to meet my dream. I actually worked with George
Lucas. I worked with Jim Henson and the Muppets, several of those individuals, but it was it was
George Lucas who really inspired me. And then of course, being a student of Joseph Campbell,
you know, and growing up as a kid, I loved the classics. I loved Homer. And I loved, you know,
the Iliad and the Odyssey. And I loved Jason and the Argonauts. And, you know, all of those
King Arthur and Excalibur, I loved, you know, those things growing up. And so Achari and I had a lot
in common. And we would discuss these things. And we both felt like, Oh, what kids are missing out on
today? You know, and then, but it was those things that helped me put it all together that these
stories were what Joseph Campbell discovered as the hero's journey. And so we looked at that and
they're all similar. Everything's similar. All these stories are so similar. They're the names
of the major characters maybe have changed. But essentially, they're telling the same things.
I mean, here you have Luke Skywalker, you know, Skywalker is the sun, you know, and you have the
dark side of Darth Vader and the Sith representing the night. And these, but these are all ancient
stories. We do this with the matrix. You know, you can just about pick any movie out today. But
Achari and I would discuss these things and say it all goes back to the stars. It's
it's solar and lunar theology made in story form. And that's really the bottom line. We see that in
national flags, flags across the world have sun, moon or stars on them. You know, when you talk about
Japan, it's the land of the rising sun, right? All of these, all of these stories have commonalities.
And it says commonalities, I think that is what makes us human. And that's what she was really
all about. I agree. 100% sure. That's a that's very interesting. And you brought that to my
to my to my thinking five, six years ago. And I thought, Oh, man, this is hard to swallow.
But it was so freeing. Because, you know, I was trapped. I was inside of a very, very isolated
box in the way that I thought I thought I was right. I had this notion that I had to know,
like I had to know everything and be right. And when I started uncover this stuff, I realized
the vastness and who knows how far back now that we're uncovering places like a
Lebeke Tepe and and who knows what's older than that that we haven't discovered that might have
some type of celestial route to it. It's like, Whoa, I'll never know. I'll never know at all. So
it was very freeing to know upfront, I will never know at all. And I thought I had to know at all.
It was like a weird, I don't know, my Christianity was kind of a Gnostic in nature, like I had to be
the one who knew, you know what I mean? You know, it was kind of Gnostic. Yeah, I'm plugging Miguel
here a little, you know, but I mean, you were elite, stuck up elite. That's a fact. I was,
I was definitely Calvinistic asked Luther and, you know, already I'm Calvinistic. Yeah, I was
never pass up a debate, Derek. And I don't mean to embarrass you. No, I couldn't. I was like,
let me show you from the text and blah, blah, blah. And then you guys literally came by and said, Hey,
you know that rug you're standing on? And I'm on my back now looking up and you're like, you see
those stars up there now? Guess what? All along, baby, you had no clue. So then I saw the son,
the son of God, he cometh on the clouds, and every eye shall see him, the light of the world.
And I said, Is that just spiritual light? I used to think this is just spiritual. This is just
this and that. He comes on the clouds. I mean, I remember watching Dragon Ball Z,
I remember Goku would ride on this little, you know, small cloud and I'd be like,
that Jesus surfing on the clouds, don't, I don't make sense. Then I realized, well,
this is apocalyptic literature. At least that's what we're told is apocalyptic literature. God
comes on the clouds, that's judgment, which it does mean that in the Old Testament, according to
the story, but who else rides on the clouds? Who else is the son of God or the light of the world?
And they always make a big fuss about sun and the sun not being the same word. I get it. But
there's many other details that made me say, you know what, he is that light figure. He is the sun
in some sense. And then, you know, these ideas made me open up my mind, like what is going on?
What is going on? Moses. Scholarship, it's a universal consensus at this point. If you're a
critical scholar that isn't a believer, Dr. Price told me very clearly all the Old Testament or
Hebrew scripture, critical scholars who don't believe are unanimous in saying Moses did not exist.
Unanimous. Was that common 30 years ago? I don't know how common that was.
Well, before Thomas sell Thompson. Yeah, I wouldn't be surprised if he did. I'm sort of
leaning that he might have existed now. Yeah, there might have been obviously an astrological
thing to it. But when you read the work of Gary Greenberg and others, he might have been a historical
and even the ancients did there was there's but anyway, that's a completely different.
Right. I like to keep different arguments. Yeah. Okay, could he be based on a historical like Jesus,
the Jesus character? So many people like he exists. I think and I like to think
historicists are finding evidence of historical elements of a historical Jesus based off other
things like three men dying on the cross to thieves and Jesus crucified. Well, if there's
anything historical, we can know they'd say he was crucified, even like Paul says, if there's
anything in our faith, he had to rise from the dead or everything's in vain. I tend to think
these narratives are taken from Josephus. So if there was a historical Jesus, Ben Ananias,
let's say, saying, woe to you, Israel, woe to you scribes. All they did is they took a historical
guy over here and put him onto a narrative in the 30s under Pontius Pilate claiming a prediction
of the temple's destruction. So I wonder if the same could be said of like Moses, Moses might be
based off of some Egyptian guy or some person that may exist in another narrative and not actually
a Hebrew, Israelite that that really existed around that time. That's all I'm saying. I'm not
saying that there couldn't be a root there. But does that mean that Jesus himself actually existed?
And this is where we get into the weird stuff and no mythology and the names and the sequences and
like, at what point do we stop and go, Hey, Derek, that stuff's not so weird.
I'm not calling it weird, though. Oh, okay. I thought you I thought you were making it personal.
No, no, I'm only kidding. But I mean, what is the value in finding the historical Jesus? I think
if we step back, we have to ask, what is it that we expect to find? What does it do for us to have
a historical Jesus? Is there some sort of a deep seated human need? Would he be something like a
theological security blanket to take the peanuts metaphor? You know, if we if we found him, and
how important would he be in actual practice? Do we need to somehow keep him in mind just beyond
the curtain so that, you know, we have him? I mean, the historical Jesus is not the liturgical Jesus.
You can be a worshipper, you can be a believer, you can even be a fundamentalist. They don't need
historical Jesus is that's why they may not refer to him. And yet there's something I don't know,
something attractive, maybe even inherently satisfying as a human to know that such a figure
existed. And I can't discount that. So I certainly like Miguel, keep an open mind about it. Although
Derek, you and I talked about this. I recently constructed for the book, a timeline of Christianity,
and I call this timeline Christianity light. Okay, and what's missing from it conspicuously
is Jesus. I've got all these causes and motivations and all these agents, and it's a Christianity
timeline without Christ. And it works just fine. The more details I plug into it, the more I'm able
to understand movements and motivations without the need for a historical Jesus figure. So I'm
still exploring it. Let's see how it goes. Good luck. As Robert Price says, until we build a TARDIS,
a time machine, we're going to speculate. I am pretty confident we're not going to find
any something close to a historical Jesus or person, but I'm no longer, again, it's never
been my dogma or anything I worry too much about. Honestly, I would put mythicism as my first.
And if I had a second place, it would probably be Jesus the magician. I think that would be the
second strongest. I think it's pretty obvious he was a badass magic user who had to go because,
you know, it's more of a Dungeons and Dragons, you know, there's a star and then there's Dungeons
and Dragons and science fiction. That's it, Lord of the Rings. So it works perfect with my world
view and everything else. But that's what Albert Schweitzer said in the quest for the historical
Jesus. Whenever we go looking for a historical Jesus, we end up with the Jesus we want. Somehow
we find that works perfectly for our world view. And maybe this is a supernatural, right? We search
for Jesus. We're going to find the kind of Jesus that needs to work to help our lives or fit into
our world view or challenges or something like that. And Miguel, you know, nobody gave it more
of a fair shot than a chariot, right? I mean, she called it, she called it peeling back the onion.
Remember, she used to use that metaphor. And she says I can peel it back as far back as possible.
And then I found there was nothing there. Right. And she would take it far. I mean,
she went not just the onion, but the whole farm or yard because no, no. Well, we have John the
Baptist. Nope. No historical. Well, Mary Magdalene. No, no, no. I think there was only Pontius Pilate
left, you know, in a chariot system. And he might be used to walk carefully. But that was it. And
same with all the other history. I don't think Paul, I mean, I think she thought Paul might have been
a Polonius of Tyenne or a mosaic of different characters. So it was, she was uncompromising.
But like you said, she could back it up with plenty of citations, arguments and everything
else. It wasn't going to change. But yeah, Apostles, Mary Magdalene, all these people,
complete fictions based on the processes of the start. Virgin Mary, you name it.
I just did an interview with Rabbi Tovia Singer and Rabbi was pointing out trying to take the
approach of how embarrassment, the argument from embarrassment. And he says that pretty much the
argument from embarrassment makes sense of why Paul exists. And he's really arguing with other
church members. And, you know, he's not a liar and this and this and that. And I remember reading
Batman's paper. And Batman reminded me of Paul looking a lot like Balaam, the false prophet in
the Old Testament. And I thought to myself, well, Rabbi Tovia Singer's got a point about this
embarrassment thing. But where else can I find this argument from embarrassment? Aha, Balaam.
I mean, the book tells us that he was a prophet of God, who somehow is telling people that these
things are going to happen. And then the story has to answer, well, the reason Balaam got it wrong
is that God sent a lying spirit in his mouth. So technically, he's actually not telling the truth
that God himself put the lying spirit in Balaam's mouth. And of course, you have talking donkeys
and stuff, which you could take that literal and argue with fundamentalists all day and bash the
book. Or you could say, what is this donkey? Or like Elijah, the bald, you're bald, 42 children
get mauled by a bear. Are we going to bash the Bible all day long or say, let's see what this
really is trying to say? I mean, is this not celestial? Is this Ursa major or minor? Is this
not something going on? And that's what I think our passion is here at MythVision. I know that's
your passion too, at Aonbite and Gnostic Radio. Our passion isn't to bash the book. We are obviously
going to, you know, chuckle a little at fundamentalism and let them know like, hey, you guys are playing
with out of your league with this text, and you're really like doing something hocus pocus with it,
that had nothing to do with the original context. We are trying to get to what it's really saying,
what's really going on. I think when someone says what's the importance of did Jesus exist,
or did these guys actually exist, to me, it's important to me, not just be for practice,
practical purpose. Remember now, guys, I'm an elitist, so I have to know. But no, regardless,
it's a matter of, for me, it's a matter of going, how can we have 2 billion plus people
in this world who literally create walls on people outside, not all of them, by the way,
I'm just giving a big number here, create walls separating themselves from the rest of humanity.
If what Acharya S is doing is correct, and she's pointing this stuff out, this is so groundbreaking,
this is the precipice of humanity's complete change, if we went in this direction, we would no
longer have the divisions we have between race, our culture, all these things could really change,
this is just the birth of something like that. So, to me, that's why I am fascinated over whether
or not Jesus existed or not, for the sake of humanity's future. If there is a man who did exist,
this debate will never end, because this guy, and I'm not saying this means he did or didn't exist,
I'm just saying, this guy existed, now it's, did he really rise from the dead? And it's always
going to be that, but if we can show enough reason why this guy is celestial, he didn't
really exist, there is, it's all mythological, that I think takes away all the things, and at
the end of the day, more people will start to say, Jesus, his horse is Osiris, his Dionysus, his
Mithras is, what the heck is going on? That's my opinion. Yeah, that's why I liked Dr. Price's
statement when he said, you know, if Superman didn't exist, which that's what we're comparing Jesus
to, is the celestial Superman, if he didn't exist, then does Clark Kent exist? If Superman didn't
exist, then did Clark Kent not exist? And that's the bottom line for me, is that if we found a guy,
would it really matter? Because he's just a guy. I mean, I, I take the position that all of these
things are mythological stories. And like Acharya, when I say myth, I don't mean that these are
fictional non-meaning stories, but they're full of meaning, and they contain cultural
uh, importances that, that, that make these myths important. You know, I try to think
agriculture to me, the discovery of agriculture, was probably the single greatest discovery
since we found the atom bomb. I mean, it changed the world, understanding agriculture.
And to see these stories preserve that information throughout the Bible in a celestial understanding
is life and death for those people. You know, these were hunter-gatherers at one point,
and now they're going into understanding, hey, this is the time of year that we can plant.
Oh, this is the time of year that we can harvest that. And by doing that, they could sustain great
cities and people could stay together. And to me, that was really, really important information.
So to put these, this information to story form so that children could understand them later
and be easy to remember, it preserves that information. And I think we've kind of lost
sight of that. And Acharya and I would discuss these things. I had, I have a theory that,
that all of these stories have a central character, which is the sun,
the S-U-N. And each of these stories also have a subcharacter. So for instance, Adam
represents the sun and Eve is Virgo. So it's the sun in Virgo. You know, Noah was grandfather,
Enoch, who lived 365 years. Right. We know that's the solar revolution around the earth.
So Enoch represents the sun, but Noah is that water man. He's Aquarius, the water man.
And these are constellations. I think the boat or the, that Noah rode on was the Argo Navus,
the night sky boat. Columbia the dove is part of that story. Corvus the crow is the raven.
And then you look at David, King David, you know, he remember the whole Goliath story when he
kills Goliath with a sling and then he cuts the head off of Goliath with his sword and holds his
head up high before the children of Israel. Well, this is the constellation we know as Perseus.
And we know the Greek story, Perseus slays the Medusa and holds her head up high to display before
the Kraken and turn the Kraken into stone. And Jacob and Esau are the Gemini twins.
And their father, Isaac, is the son in the story. Moses, the lawgiver, he is the son in Libra,
the scales of justice. He's also the son in the bull, the destruction of the bull story,
Taurus the bull. Jonah is the fish story, right? Jonah is the son.
Daniel and the lions then. Daniel is the son in Leo the lion. So these are all
preservations of ancient mythological stories, but they're set to seasons and knowledge of those
seasons. And there's a lot of hidden detail in each one of these stories. And they're repeated in
the New Testament. So instead of Eve being Virgo, who's the virgin in the New Testament? It's Mary,
you know, the son in Virgo. You have the new waterman who takes the place of Noah is John the
Baptist. He's the new waterman, right? You even see the dove in the story where when he's baptized
in the River Jordan, the dove descends upon Jesus, right? James and John, the Gemini twins.
I mean, so this just continues on in the New Testament repeating these stories. So what's
happened is in the Old Testament, you had a multiplicity of son stories.
But in the New Testament, you had a singular son story, but with all the characters
from the Old Testament. And so this is a new story. It's like they try to master it like they
mastered all the old and right. And that's why you see that you see them taking from the Old Testament.
Yeah. Dr. Bob, like, says that's his number one myth is his point. And this is actually going to
be in his book that's coming out soon. I didn't mean to interrupt you, Batman. I just figured
this is a perfect point to bring up. And he's coming at it. I've had sit down conversations
in his living room. I'm like, Dr. Bob, think astro theology with me. Like I want him to think
like what we're thinking right now. I think we're all on the same page and seeing what we're seeing
together here. We all agree. He's like seeing the textual like details. And he's going, ah,
that's borrowing from Deuteronomy Exodus. This he's looking at it textually as a critical scholar.
And he's finding the story rewritten. And that's his number one argument on why these guys didn't
exist is he finds practically the whole New Testament practically is all just a rewrite.
And you're absolutely correct, Batman, that this New Testament is a single son story collectively
discussing all the different celestial signs and the sun traveling through their houses.
And to me, that was interesting that you see little elements of that. Like he says,
as in the days of Noah, well, we know that they were in the last days, according to the New Testament.
Well, as in the days of Noah, come on, that was the flood, right? Well, who's the water man?
John the Baptist is bringing the flood by him appearing. This idea of the flood is the beginning
of the end right here in the New Testament. So there's this interesting celestial motif.
And you said something, and I'll shut up after this. I think this is valid.
I was watching a debate between Dr. Baum and William Lane Craig. They say, Christian say,
the number one apologist for Christianity in the world. I know Catholics who literally say William
Lane Craig is like the top apologist in the world for Christianity. The one part that I bit
my tongue when I heard the debate that I wish Dr. Baum would have known what we're talking about here
or would have drove home. He said, the problem with you saying dying and rising gods compared to Jesus
is that you're saying, and the New Testament is not an agricultural mythology like other
agricultural mythologies. He drove home historicity as his point and his point that couldn't go
any further. And most scholarship just accepts. Because why? There's a tidal wave of historicity
from the church that is always taught. Oh, that's a historical character. These are actual facts.
I see agricultural mythology throughout not only the old, but into the new with all the parables
and all the stories that Jesus is telling about the harvest and reaping and the wheat and the
shaft. And you name it, this is agricultural mythology at its best, but you need to know how
to look at it. If Dr. Baum would have drove that home, I think dying and rising God comparisons
right in the face of someone like William Lane Craig could have fallen to his face right there
if he had an understanding like Acharya S. does on these models. She probably said, sorry, dude,
this is agricultural. And let me give you the reason why, buddy. So sit down, you know,
I'm gonna sit down now. And you know, Derek, I watch almost all of your shows, you know,
the myth, myth, vision podcast. And it's funny, almost every show we get into these discussions,
you know, whether it be Paul is this person or that person or did he exist or didn't exist or,
you know, or whatever the show is, I notice always there are comparisons to Apollo or to
Mithras or Dionysus or it's almost every show. And it's like this dancing elephant that's in the room
that's like, geez, maybe none of them existed. And they're all mythological characters
could it be, you know, because we don't know, but I'm telling you, if I can put this all together
as a and demonstrate the zodiac and them following this through their culture in these stories,
in my opinion, they cannot be historical. They just cannot be. And when you add on top of that,
all of the fantastic things, you know, Jesus fed the 5000 with five loaves and two fishes or what,
you know what I'm saying? These are the, this is the fantastic part of it. And it, to me, it should
say, okay, look, we shouldn't look at this as history. We should look at this as what is trying to
teach us, you know, from either an agricultural aspect or an astrological aspect or whatever it is.
You know, it's like, what was it in 1973, I think? No, 72. It was a book called The City of Revelation.
John Mitchell showed how the 153 fish story is a geometry lesson.
And it's, it's incredible the detail of that geometry lesson.
And yet we use in the myth of Pythagoras too. Yeah. And the thing is, look at the, we take it as,
as history. I mean, you can't take a geometry lesson as history. So I'm with the chariot and all of
this stuff, you know, as long as you can't prove that there is a guy, then the burden of proof is
on you to find the guy, you know, but from all of my research, I'm, I just can't find any of
these guys or, or, or any, either could anybody in the first century, strangely,
must have all been there on the internet doing podcasts and so on. That's right.
James, brother of Jesus here, how can I help you? So I know, you know, Acharya, I know she was
frustrated. I spoke with her several times about this. She was concerned about the future generations
and, and our generation in particular, where kids today, they don't read books. They're,
you know, if it doesn't move, like on a screen, then they're not interested.
And she felt like her work was in vain. And I just told her, you know, I think history will
prove that wrong. Because I think we are in a malaise, that's for sure. I mean, millennials aren't
reading books. And even before that, Batman, I mean, again, none of us are looking at the stars
just as important doesn't matter how many books we read, we've got to know what's going on up there
in the sky. I mean, Derek was talking about go black and tip in as Gordon White argues in his book
Starships. It's really fascinating because we assume that when civilization start, it starts,
you know, with kind of Maslow's thing, you know, let's build some of the hunt, let's build shelter,
let's later on, we build the temples and the universities. But go black and tepe shows is
that it started out with the stargazing building, the temple, which goes back to that thing about
Terry Pratchard, it starts with the fantasy, it starts with us looking at the stars, and you
can say, Well, is that the gods? Is that UFOs downloading information? As humans, we need
those stories in the stars just to exist. We need those fantasies somewhere to look up and inspire
us like a guest Tobias Chirton always asked them one time, why was the 60s the 60s? Was it the drugs?
Was it he said, No, I think once Kennedy said we can go to the moon, everybody lifted their head to
the sky and it somehow subconsciously inspired Western civilization that we had the power to go
to the stars. That's why we got the music, the art and the, you know, and of course, the, you know,
the, the controversies in the culture for better or worse, it changed our consciousness just like
go black and tepe shows that humans need to start looking up at the stars. So back to your point,
Batman, yes, it's, I'm not as optimistic because again, we're not younger generations aren't reading
and none of us are looking at the stars. So they might watch podcasts like this though,
because it moves on the screen. Well, there you go. And it's interesting, you know,
I'm hoping that, that, that they will watch stuff like this and learn from history because,
you know, I think, I think also looking at the movies and I know Luther, you've got something
you want to share, but looking at movies, right? A lot of mythology that we do know that are in
these books are in movies. Somehow if we can connect them and let them know just the same way
you felt about Iron Man, the same way you felt about the Hulk, the same way you felt about Batman
is exactly what the ancients probably thought about Jesus. So they were sacred to them, of
course, probably far more than that though, but go ahead, Luther, I can see words bubbling out of
your temple, like right here out of your head. Well, I think Batman said it best when he started
to frame the symbolism going on here. I think one reason why we live in dangerous times is that
the ability to tell these kinds of stories are reserved for only certain people and only a certain
class. These stories belong to everyone. And I think everyone in the, in the spirit of ancient
learning needs to be able to riff on these stories the way Miguel does in his story,
in his show, to create your own personal mythology to at least be able to do that
and have a command of the symbol so that creatively you can say something that is meaningful to you
and use that as a basis for how you live and how you understand the world and and react to others.
Batman was talking about the symbolism Moses coming in and about Moses being judgment and
representing Libra and and the son in Libra. I think that's exactly right. And I would add to that
that the ancients understood the principle of the dialectic. They understood what was on the
opposite side. Yes. And so and so in Moses we began to have the sacrificing of sheep. We had,
it was a sheep religion. And that goes back to areas of the Ram. That's exactly right. And that's
on the other side of Libra. So yes, we had Libra, which is the judgment of the scales,
but we also had him suspended dialectically or diametrically, if you will, on the other side
with Aries. And so there is this triangular relationship of thesis, antithesis, you know,
your Aries and the antithesis of that would be the Libra. And then the synthesis is how is the
human being relating to these opposites? How are we caught in the middle of it? So there's this
triangulation and that triangulation speaks to the three, four, five triangle of Pythagoras,
which is very important in how the New Testament framed the 153 numerics as as Michelle pointed
out. And so these ancients understood the power of the dialectic. They understood that, hey,
that opposition is a fundamental principle of life. You're not going to meet everybody who
thinks the way you do. Not everybody's going to be the same. The world is not full of your
mirror image. Okay. And, and when you deal with this fundamental difference or opposition,
how does that change our world? What new possibilities does it present? And where do we go
from there? And that's something we have lost, because we have lost today the ability to,
to tolerate much less appreciate people who don't think like us.
We read all the time about, about people being offended. And so that shuts off the discussion
because I'm offended. Whereas the ancients would think that being offended, what should be the
beginning point of a discussion. Okay, you're offended. Great. Let's proceed from here and
hash it out, bring facts to the table, and let's find out why. So I think we have lost the dynamic
interplay that Batman was talking about that the stars have told us about. And I think that's an
that's essential to being human. Yeah, we are, we are story consuming machines as humans. I mean,
whole industries, I mean, look, Hollywood is based on our love for stories. You know, my wife reads
romance novels, you know, these are stories, you know, I'm just saying,
you know, in the ancient world, do you think they were any different than we are?
No, they needed those stories to survive. Simple. Exactly. They had to have them, you know. And
geez, I mean, Star Wars is such a cult classic today. That you know, an ocean of myth. It is like
hardcore press down that in the empire. Then I think return of the Jedi, he lost it. Yeah.
He stopped taking dimethyl tryptamine. I think he lost the cycle. Gotta plug that
arm and need a muscular. Yeah, Derek, I wanted to say, you know, earlier you were saying how,
you know, you wanted to have all the details and you know, I've hammered you constantly. Yes. On this
that the nature of of religious syncretism is that things change all the time throughout history.
So you're never going to be able to nail down the real detailed specifics of these things because
of that, unless you're going to pick one small slivered area of time and deal only with that.
Yeah. I'd rather try and get a grand big picture. I mean, you're absolutely right.
And I guess it's like changing a tire, a tire on a moving car. It's just not going to happen.
And you know, like Acharya said to me, she said, Mark, 80, 85% of our history has actually been
destroyed, you know, and I think intentionally by the church of Rome. And then it takes us some new
scroll from Egypt or archaeological discovery and everything is turned around and everybody's
scrambling. So yeah. And isn't it interesting, Miguel, that we have, you know, that we found these
star charts and stuff that deal with the Zodiac, with the Dead Sea Scrolls, but nobody ever talks
about this. No, no, no. But they're part of the context. They're part of that finding. And when
you put it in context, context, you realize all of this is about the stars. Always has been.
You know what blew me away when you first started talking to me. And I know you guys are fully aware
of the great year. I never realized time like we never really sat back and understood how did
they understand time? Well, they understood 24 hour days, understood 365 Enoch lived 365 years,
wouldn't you know it? Well, the great year. And that took everything that I thought and if you
aren't aware of what the great year is, and you're watching this, just go into YouTube, type in the
great year, start searching people, Randall Carlson and others who, you know, will take you through
explaining the wobble and going into more detail of what is going on with the great year. But
measuring time like that on a grand Zodiac, not just a 12 month Zodiac, that really took me through
something biblically that I never had an explanation for, which was the ages, the end of the age that
Jesus was talking about, according to the New Testament, these ages that were thousands of
years, you know, at a time really blew my mind was like, huh, what's going on with the ages?
At least that's the way I was understanding it was looking at it that way. And something that you
said that I thought was great, Miguel, was how we look at globebeccatepe and, you know, science is
trying to say this is when hunter-gatherers finally become, you know, I'm very agnostic on that. I
just can't because think about it, the earth took a bath not too long before that, where the sea
levels rose 400 feet. And most of civilization today, look at like the United States politics,
right? I don't vote, but I look at the chart and I see red and blue and who do I look at the most?
It's California, it's New York, it's Florida, it's along the shore. Let 400 feet of water come
back before 12,500, 800 years ago and see how many civilizations were destroyed and wiped out.
There's no telling what they knew. We literally hit a reset button and my computer, I just don't
know what the hell was in it before it reset. All of it got wiped by this virus called water
and something happened, whether, you know, I'm not getting into catastrophes, but nonetheless
something happened. To me, these stories are what lived on. And today, when I talk about
recovery, and this is not really part of this program, but when I talk about recovery to people,
they always wonder, what God are you offering me? What Jesus? What religion? And I look at them and
I say, just listen to my story. All you need to hear is my narrative. And my narrative can be that
living myth in you. And if you can hold on to what I'm saying, then I can guarantee you it's the same
thing. What's God and AA? Group of drunks. And all you got to do is have an ear to hear what they're
saying. And next thing you know, you're finding yourself further away from that last drink,
further away from that last use, that doesn't go for just recovery. That goes for life as humans.
And if we can keep a narrative going and spinning off this narrative, whatever people do with it,
which is usually always something like historicity, let's get strict and let's hold rules and
guidelines and find ways to make people fit in this box. Even people who are in recovery rooms
do that. And instead, we stick to a narrative narratives what saves people. So that's my philosophy.
Twist and turns in the stories, guys. We can look at it conceptually, as well as numerologically.
And of course, you know, I'm very big on the theological significance and the conceptual
significance of numbers. But to riff off of what you said, Derek, concerning the great year,
as a story progresses, you reach different points on the circle. And they can they can be measured
in a metric expressed by different numbers, but also different concepts, what happens in the story
at this point. And then as it goes a little further along the circle, and something different will
happen. And so it is with the various numbers and concepts that we find in the scriptures,
you know, there's the numbers that that we're familiar with that we run into every every day,
like 144, 72, 180, all those are divisions of the great year. So if you look at the largest
context of it, you know, like 72, the average lifespan of a man thought of by many in the
ancient world is 1360th of the great year, 144, 118, 1180th of the great year, 180, which is 1144th
of the great year. In fact, I've got a list of that in my previous book. And I list about 20
of these various numbers that you encounter. And they all are divisions of the great year.
Derek, can I, Darren, can I, I mean, Luther, can I break in here? Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead.
Batman. Yeah, you were just talking about that. And I wanted to say,
you know, you see like these specific numbers like the 144,000 in Revelation.
And I don't know if anybody remembers in the year, what was it, the 2012? Remember the Mayan
calendar told us that the end of the world was going to happen. I think it was December 20th.
You know, again, winter solstice, right? Okay. And yet, and yet this was after 144,000, I think,
is it either 144? I think it was 144 back tunes. And so why are they using that same specific number?
Is it because we all have remnants of that information of those stories
that divide the great year? You know, you find that you find that number 430
in multiple cultures, you know, right? And I just think that over time, we've lost a lot
of that information, like Derek was saying, our computer hard drives got wiped out. But there
was still a remembrance of these things. And they're shared culturally across the world.
And I just think that's important to recognize that what you were saying,
numerologically, has been preserved in some of these stories.
Right.
Joseph tells the wine bearer when he leaves the dungeon, remember me. Jesus says to his followers,
do this in remembrance of me. They're trying to keep something alive, you know.
Remember me, right? We think of remember as somehow looking back. That's not what the word says.
The word says, make me a member again. The word says, reconnect me. You can remember your arm.
It means put your arm back into your body, son. Remember you, make you a member again,
make it an authentic part of you. And I think that's what we've forgotten. So when he's saying,
remember me, it means, yeah, I'm a part of you. I'm connected to you now. Recognize the vital
connection and maintain it. So I mean, you know, even so, I guess what we're saying is that even
words, we lose the profundity of the meanings that they express. And that's kind of tragic.
Maybe we can do our part to restore that.
Amen. And none of this, none of this would have been possible. I don't think these types of
discussions without Acharya. Her work is, to me, the authority on astrathiology today.
And mythology too. Yeah. Dude, she had bigger balls than all of us combined.
Yeah. Yeah, she did. Keep it real. I mean, she's amazing.
Miguel, thank you for, thank you for coming and like really like being here with us, man. It feels
natural having you here and like talking about these things. I think we can do this more often
if you guys want like bi-monthly something that's doable. And then maybe see if we can
incorporate it more because I know a lot of people who are going to like what we're talking about.
Every great year. Yeah, all right. Oh hell, see you in the next five, six lives.
Right. We'll meet in the spirit world, Miguel. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We'll be robots. We'll have
robot parts. The narrative, you know, like. The apes will be ruling the world. That's right.
There you go. But the Alexandrians knew about it. They know that. We'll be on some spacecraft
talking about how our ancient ancestors had this story called Star Wars. And we're not sure what
this is. Oh man. No, it was a lot of fun. Yeah, let's do it again. Again, if we can get people to
look at the stars and at the same time read these ancient stories, I think humanity has a small
chance of making it. So why not? Might be our best friends. I agree. Batman, Luther, Miguel,
you guys are awesome. I just want to say we got to do more of this. And I feel like this was our
little last supper with Acharya and doing this in remembrance of her.
Thank you. Or as I used to tell her, Amun Ra. That's right. Amun Ra. Thank you. Thank you. All right.
