Melchizedek, you've probably heard that name before, but many Christians would be hard
pressed to tell you who he was, or why he was significant to Judaism and Christianity.
Since his name only appears twice in the Old Testament, I mean, how important could he
be?
Nevertheless, this marginal figure and the Hellenistic legends that developed about him
ended up influencing Second Temple Judaism and early Christian theology in profound ways.
The purpose and origins of the Melchizedek's story in Genesis are also far from obvious.
He appears out of nowhere as a Canaanite priest king devoted to the God of Israel at
a time when the Canaanites were supposedly wicked idol worshippers bestowing blessings
on Abraham after a military campaign that portrays the peaceful patriarch as a powerful
military commander.
Thanks to recent biblical scholarship, we might finally have a solution to most of these
puzzles.
Stay tuned as we explore how the legend of Melchizedek grew from his surprising Old
Testament origins into a major savior figure for the Dead Sea Scrolls cult and early Christians.
Also thanks to Paul Davidson for writing this amazing script about Melchizedek.
To show him our appreciation, I hope everyone will subscribe to his YouTube channel, Inquisitive
Bible Reader.
Let him know.
Myth Fishin' Sent You.
Part One
Melchizedek in the Old Testament
The Battle Campaign of Genesis 14
The only narrative passage in the Bible that mentions Melchizedek is Genesis chapter 14
and we need to take a closer look at the surrounding events concerning Abraham in order to understand
what Melchizedek is doing here.
In the preceding chapter, we read about how Abraham, or rather Abram as he is called here,
and Lot, the kinsmen of Abram, have migrated together from Egypt into southern Palestine
with their livestock herds.
Because of disputes between the herders employed by Abram and Lot, the two men decide to split
up and go their separate ways.
Lot chooses the fertile plain of the Jordan River near the city of Sodom and Abraham settles
in the hill country of Canaan.
It is at this time that Yahweh makes the famous promise to Abraham that all the land he can
see will belong to his offspring, who will be like the dust of the earth in number.
Abram then builds an altar to Yahweh at Hebron.
The theme of Yahweh's promise to Abram continues in chapter 15, as Yahweh comes to Abram in
a vision, promising him a son and declaring that his descendants will be like the stars
in the sky in number.
Sandwiched between these two chapters, however, is a story that is unlike anything else in
Genesis.
It tells of an invasion by four nations led by the king of distant Ilam named Kedur Leomur.
First, these invaders subdued the towns of southern Canaan, then they defeat the kings
of the Dead Sea Pentapolis, including Sodom.
They pillage Sodom, kidnap Lot, and then depart.
When Abram hears of this, he forms an army of trained warriors from his household.
Abram and his army chase the four kings to the distant north, first to the city of Dan,
then to a place called Hobba, north of Damascus, and defeat them.
Abram recaptures the loot along with Lot and the other abductees and returns home.
A few things happen when Abram returns.
First, the king of Sodom comes out to meet him at a place called the Kings Valley.
In the next verse, verse 18, we are told that King Melchizedek of Salem brought out bread
and wine.
He was a priest of El Elyon.
In verses 19 and 20, Melchizedek says to Abram,
Blessed be Abram by El Elyon, maker of heaven and earth, and blessed be El Elyon who has
delivered your enemies into your hand.
Lastly, the text says, and he gave him one tenth of everything.
Grammatically, the subject he should refer to the speaker Melchizedek, who gives a tenth
of his wealth to Abram, even though all English Bibles translated the opposite way.
This becomes an important issue later on.
Melchizedek's sudden appearance in these three verses is jarring because no earlier
verse has mentioned him and the city of Salem, presumed to be Jerusalem, has no obvious connection
to the story.
This is another problem we'll come back to.
The narrative then returns to the king of Sodom who offers to let Abram keep the plunder
he recovered, but Abram declines the offer.
The Historicity of Genesis 14
For a long time, Bible scholars assumed that some memory of a genuine historical event
lay behind this story.
However, a century of archaeological research fell to produce any evidence for these four
kings and their campaign in Palestine.
There was simply no time in the second millennium BCE when an international alliance led by
Elam could have been historical reality.
In fact, every aspect of this story creates problems when viewed through the lens of historicity.
For one thing, while Elam and Shinar are well-known places, the lands of Go'im and
Elassar, where the other two kings came from, are difficult to identify.
Similarly, the names of the four kings themselves are unknown in the historical record.
The names of Canaanite kings, meanwhile, seem to have been intended as puns or message names.
The king of Sodom, for example, is named Berah, which means in evil.
And the king of Gomorrah, Bershah, or Bershah, has a name that means in sin.
Although these kings are the good guys in Genesis 14, their names remind the reader of that
other Sodom in Gomorrah tell.
The geography of Genesis 14 also poses difficulties, in particular.
The reference to Dan is anachronistic, because according to the book of Judges, that city
was named by the Danites after their ancestor, Dan, a great grandson of Abraham, who has
not even been born yet in this story.
It's also a problem that no city named Hobah existed anywhere in the region of Damascus.
Additionally, there is the matter of Melchizedek himself.
At one time, scholars speculated that Melchizedek might have belonged to a Zadakite line of
priest kings who ruled Jerusalem before the Israelites conquered it.
But our modern knowledge of Bronze Age Jerusalem, particularly in light of the Amarna tablets,
rules this out.
Lastly, the very idea that texts like Genesis would contain cultural memory about minor
historical events that took place centuries or millennia earlier is problematic.
Old Testament scholar Ronald Hindle points out that looking for historicity in passages
like Genesis 14 is pointless, he writes.
These historical questions relate to the time of individual events, the smallest scale of
history.
Cultural memory is liable to forget particular events within a few generations.
When one looks beyond a few generations, cultural memory tends to forget or blur these small
time scales and relates instead to larger scales of historical time, particularly to
the scale of social time.
This time scale does not pertain to small punctuated events, but to the longer rhythms
of society, religion, ethnicity, and economy.
It has become clear to modern historians, Bible scholars, and archaeologists that the
story of Genesis 14 does not refer to historical events, so where did this story and its characters
come from?
And what does that mean for the historicity of Melchizedek?
Genesis 14 as a late addition to the Abraham legend.
It is now a widespread view among scholars that chapter 14 was a late insertion into
the book of Genesis.
We have already seen how it disrupts the story in chapters 13 and 15, which are concerned
with God's promises to Abraham and flow more smoothly without chapter 14.
John Van Ceders in his famous book on the themes of Genesis titled Prologue to History,
the Yahwist as Historian and Genesis, notes that Genesis 14 is too late to have any relevance
to the main text of Genesis.
A recent meticulously researched book on Melchizedek by a Norwegian scholar named Gard Ganneted
provides an insightful theory as to why Genesis 14 was written and inserted into the Abraham
narrative, a theory that, if correct, fortifies the case that Genesis 14 was later than the
surrounding chapters.
Garad argues that the earlier story of Abraham contained critical literary gaps that a later
editor of Genesis wanted to resolve.
For example, in Genesis 13, God instructs Abram to walk through the length and breadth
of the promised land.
But what does Abram actually do in response to this command?
He simply pitches his tent at Hebron and builds an altar.
Genesis 14 fills in this omission.
Interestingly, it is the invaders who take the first steps as they traverse key locations
throughout southern Canaan.
Then Abram pursues them all the way to the far north, completing the journey through
the land.
In this way, Abram vanquishes and ousts the foreign nations to become the master of all
the promised land.
There seems to be a deliberate illusion here to Deuteronomy 34 and the vision God gives
to Moses of a promised land stretching from Zohar in the south to Dan in the north.
The two cities that in later times defined the furthest reaches of Israel.
The use of the name El El Yan, often translated as God Most High, is also interesting.
The phrase is rare in the Bible and occurs mainly in later texts.
It is also frequently used in Sirach, a Hellenistic book.
And it was part of the title used by the Hasmonean priests were getting to the Melchizedek
stuff.
But establishing the late dating of Genesis 14 is a crucial first step for understanding
how the Melchizedek legend developed.
Just how late is Genesis 14?
Gerard proposes that King Kedoleomor is not simply a fictional person, but a stand-in
for a real nation in the author's own day, namely Persia, the empire that ruled Israel
after the exile.
Persia's core territory included Elam and Sousa.
The old Elamite capital had become one of the capitals of Persia.
Interestingly, Ezra 4 tells us that Elamites had been deported and settled in Samaria during
the exile.
Therefore, it is only during and after the exile that Jews would have been familiar with
the Elamites and Elamite-sounding names.
Kedoleomor is indeed a plausible Elamite name, even though no actual king by that name is
known to history.
In terms of genre, Genesis 14 is vastly different from the rest of the Abraham narrative, but
quite similar to the novelistic quasi-historical narratives that were common in Jewish literature
of the Persian and Hellenistic periods.
These stories, such as Daniel, Esther, and Judith, freely mix factual elements with fictional
characters and events.
Zorad has convincingly shown that Genesis 14 is the same type of story and it interweaves
other Old Testament passages in its construction.
The four invading nations are all found in the Table of Nations in Genesis 10, assuming
Elassar to be a variant of Elisha.
The cities conquered by invaders are the same cities mentioned in the wilderness wandering
Deuteronomy 1-3, with the order reversed.
Abram's pursuit of the invaders to Damascus and Hobbes follows exactly the extent of David's
conquest in 2 Samuel 8, which includes Damascus and Zoba.
Hobbes then is probably just a misspelling of Zoba, and Abram's conquest of the four
kings is an allegorical story expressing the hope and yearning of Jews living under Persian
or Seleucid rule and surrounded by deportees from other nations to re-establish the Davidic
Kingdom of Israel.
As a result, Gerard and many other leading Old Testament scholars, including Thomas Romer
and Israel Finkelstein, believe that Genesis 14 was composed in the Persian or Hellenistic
period, the Melchizedek episode.
Just as Genesis 14 interrupts the surrounding narrative of God's promise to Abram, the
three verses that concern Melchizedek, verses 18-20, disrupt the dialogue between Abram
and the king of Sodom.
In verse 17, the king of Sodom goes out to meet Abram in the king's valley, but Melchizedek,
the priest king of Salem, appears without any earlier announcement in verse 18 to provide
bread and wine, pronounce a blessing on Abram, and give a tithe.
Then just as suddenly as Melchizedek appeared, he disappears again, and the king of Sodom
resumes his conversation with Abram.
Melchizedek has not mentioned any further in Genesis, as French scholar Imdel Khor once
put it.
Melchizedek crosses the sky like a meteor, nobody knowing where he comes from or where
he is going to.
If the suspicions of most scholars are correct, then chapter 14 originally lacked the Melchizedek
verses when it was first inserted into Genesis.
In other words, Genesis 14 is one of the latest passages of the Old Testament, and the Melchizedek
verses are later still.
This makes it quite unlikely that Melchizedek reflects any genuine memory of an ancient historical
figure or the political situation in Bronze Age Jerusalem.
It also raises the possibility that rather than being based on Genesis, the Melchizedek
mentioned in Psalm 110 actually came first.
The Problem of Psalm 110
Psalm 110 is simply put, a puzzle.
It appears to be a royal Psalm, but its origins are debated, and the dates assigned to its
range from the pre-exilic period of the monarchy to the Hasmonean period.
The precise meaning of key verses also continues to elude scholars to this day.
Let's take a closer look at what it's about.
The Psalm is addressed to the king in Jerusalem, with Yahweh as the speaker.
In the first three verses, it promises the king victory over his enemies and the loyalty
of his people.
In verse 4, Yahweh swears an oath and makes a statement to the king that is the crux
of the problem.
The typical translation, such as that given by the NRSV, is this, however, the NRSV offers
an alternative translation in the footnotes.
How can the sentence be translated in such different ways?
And why has Melchizedek's name disappeared from the second version?
According to Gennard, this sentence has two ambiguous components.
One is Melchizedek, which in Hebrew looks more like two words connected with a mak'af,
the Hebrew hyphen, than a person's name.
The Malk part means king, which makes sense, since the Psalm is addressed to the king.
And the Serek part has a wide semantic range that includes accuracy, loyalty, and righteousness.
Some scholars believe that Serek was also the name of a Bronze Age Canaanite god, but
there's no direct evidence for such a deity, based on Aramaic inscriptions that use the
same word to describe a vassal king's loyalty to the Assyrian king or to his god.
Gennard suggests that loyalty might be the best interpretation of Serek here.
The second ambiguous component in verse 4 is the phrase Al-Dibrati, which appears nowhere
else in the Hebrew Bible.
This is what scholars call a hapax legamanon.
It means that Hebrew scholars and translators have no other examples of this word in ancient
literature to help them understand its meaning.
Traditionally, it has been translated according to the order of.
Gennard argues that based on more well understood phrases that are similar in structure and
etymology, it means for my sake or because of me.
It does not appear to describe a priestly order or lineage.
Putting it all together, Gennard believes Psalm 110, 4b, is best translated as,
You are a priest forever, for my sake, my king is loyal.
As a second possibility, he suggests,
You are a priest forever, for my sake, O king of righteousness.
The exact translation is not important.
What is important is that without Genesis 14, Bible translators would have no reason
to translate Malkizidek in Psalm 110 as a person's name.
This Psalm is not about a Canaanite king named Malkizidek.
It is a declaration by Yahweh that the king of Jerusalem is his loyal and righteous priest.
Is this interpretation 100% assured?
Perhaps not.
But it is easier to justify on linguistic grounds than the traditional interpretation,
which is heavily reliant on the Septuagint, and on the assumed existence of Malkizidek
in Genesis 14.
Furthermore, this new interpretation fits very well with the likelihood that Malkizidek
was not introduced into the Abraham story until a very late date,
and without the otherwise improbable fact that no other passage in the Old Testament ever mentions
this so-called Malkizidek.
The author of Psalm 110 was not writing about Malkizidek because he had never heard of him.
Historicizing Psalm 110.
When the various Hebrew Psalms were compiled in the Hellenistic period, it became common
practice to associate them with the biblical characters and stories.
We see for example how many of them, including Psalm 110, are attributed to David,
even though they originally had nothing to do with him.
Sometimes details from the Psalms and other poetic texts could also be imported back
into biblical narratives as a form of intertextuality.
An interesting example of this given by Yerzokovich in a 2000 paper is the story of King Amazia
and his defeat of the Edomites.
In the original version of the story in 2 Kings 14.7, Amazia kills 10,000 Edomites in
battle and captures the Iraqi fortress of Sela.
The later version in 2 Chronicles 25.11-12, however, adds the detail that 10,000 Edomites
were captured alive at Sela and throw down onto the rocks, dashing them to pieces.
This gruesome addition seems to be influenced by Psalm 137, which condemns the Edomites
and Babylonians saying,
Happy shall they be, who take your little ones and dash them against the rock.
Another example comes from a fascinating study by Mark Z. Bretler of Psalm 105 and its recounting
of the Egyptian plagues.
From careful analysis of the Psalms structure and vocabulary, Bretler shows the psalmist
was working not from Exodus itself, but from separate J and P sources of the plagues and
he added the darkness episode to precede them.
Sometime later, the editor of the book of Exodus reused and embellished the darkness
plague but changed its placement in the plague sequence, the same kind of intertextual influence.
May have been responsible for the Melchizedek verses in Genesis.
Grinard argues that Psalm 110 was reinterpreted in the Hellenistic era as a historical poem
about Abraham and his battle with the foreign kings because the inscription of David had
been added.
Interpreters assume the speaking voice of the Psalm was David and who else could the
great King David describe as his Lord, but Abraham, the father of all Israel.
We see similar logic at work in Mark 1237 where Jesus argues on the basis of Psalm
110 that the Christ cannot be a son of David because David would not call his own son Lord.
Although our lack of Jewish scriptural commentaries from the Hellenistic period makes Grinard's
theory impossible to prove, the association of Psalm 110 with Abraham is evident in rabbinic
literature and there is reason to think that Psalm 110 was read together with Genesis 14
in synagogues.
Melchizedek, The Gap Filler
Jews who interpreted Psalm 110 as a historical poem about Abraham would have discovered that
it contained four surplus details about Abraham that were not originally explained in Genesis
14.
Grinard believes that Melchizedek's character was invented on the basis of Psalm 110 verse
4 and added Genesis 14 to fill in those gaps.
The first surplus detail was the insistence that Yahweh was actively involved in Abraham's
battles.
The battle campaign described in Genesis 14 takes place without any divine intervention.
The Melchizedek verses fill that gap by declaring it was El El Yan who delivered Abrams' enemies
into his hand.
Remember that in Hellenistic times, El El Yan was a widely used title for the God of
Israel.
The second detail is that in Psalm 110, Yahweh comes from Zion to provide aid for Abraham.
Genesis 14 did not mention Zion.
However, the Bible's only other mention of Salem, Psalm 76 verse 2, uses it as a synonym
for Zion and so Melchizedek bringing aid to Abraham from Salem fills this gap.
The third detail is that Psalm 110 confers on Abraham an eternal priesthood, an idea
that Dove tells nicely with Moses' declaration in Exodus 19 that Israel is to be a kingdom
of priests.
Melchizedek, giving tithes to Abraham, confirms him as a priest since only a priest could
receive tithes.
And if it seems strange to regard Abraham as a priest, remember that he builds altars
to Yahweh on several occasions and performs sacrifices, nearly including that of his own
son.
The fourth detail is that Psalm 110 describes Abraham having his head raised up because
he drinks from a stream.
Melchizedek bringing wine to Abraham might fulfill this element, although Gernard acknowledges
that the case here is a bit weaker than the other three.
In summary, a strong case can be made that Genesis did not contain a character named
Melchizedek until a fairly late date.
The word Melchizedek, if properly understood, is actually a description of the loyalty of
righteousness of the king toward Yahweh.
However, in Hellenistic times, this Psalm was regarded as a poetic version of the story
about Abraham and Genesis 14 and Melchizedek was reinterpreted as the name of a priest
king associated with Abraham and his battle campaign.
Once the existence of this enigmatic priest king became firmly established in Genesis
14 and in Psalm 110, particularly the Greek translation of Psalm 110, which explicitly
treats Melchizedek as a name, there was an explosion of interest in Jewish religious
circles about this mysterious character's identity and importance.
2.
Melchizedek after the Old Testament embellishment of the Melchizedek legend by Hellenistic writers
Melchizedek is mentioned frequently by Jewish writers during the late Second Temple period,
starting in the 2nd century BC.
The Genesis Apocryphon, an Aramaic retelling of Genesis, embellishes the story of Genesis
14 to smooth over the abruptness of Melchizedek's appearance and it specifies that Melchizedek
rather than Abram was the recipient of the tithes.
Josephus and Pseudo-Eupolimus also recount and expand the story of Abram and Melchizedek.
In Book 6 of his Jewish Wars, Josephus goes so far as to state that Melchizedek was the
first priest of God and the original founder of the Jewish temple rather than Solomon.
Like the Genesis Apocryphon, Josephus also clarifies that it was Abraham who paid the
tithe.
Pseudo-Eupolimus, on the other hand, says it was Melchizedek who paid the tithe to Abraham.
The Jewish historian and philosopher Philo of Alexandria describes Melchizedek in a
truly remarkable way.
In his book Allegory of the Laws, Philo says that Melchizedek was created directly by God
as a king with his own priesthood, a symbol of lawfulness and righteousness in opposition
to tyrants.
He describes Melchizedek as the prince of peace, and then has this to say.
Scholars still debate exactly what Philo means here, but Philo seems to be describing Melchizedek
as a priest king specially created by God to serve as the Logos, an angel-like entity
or substance that is able to bridge the chasm between the transcendent God who necessarily
exists outside the material cosmos and the earthly realm.
The Logos concept originated in Greek philosophy and here Philo is combining Greek concepts
with an esoteric interpretation of Genesis in order to convey philosophical truth.
However, Philo's application of the Logos to Jewish theology was highly influential among
early Christians who believed the Logos was a divine redeemer sent by God to save humankind.
Second Enoch and the need for a priestly deliverer.
Another stage in the development of the Melchizedek legend is found in the book of two Enoch,
which is generally now dated to the early first century, building on the pre-flood mythology
of one Enoch.
Two Enoch describes the miraculous conception and birth of Melchizedek to Sathonym, the sister
in law of Noah, even though Sathonym is barren and has not slept with her husband.
This miraculous birth has important parallels with the birth of Noah in the earlier texts
of one Enoch and the Genesis Apocryphon.
Furthermore, Melchizedek emerges from his mother's body as a full grown adult with the
badge of priesthood on his chest.
This mark is probably the divine name Yahweh, which Israelite priests wore on their turbans.
But in this case, it signifies Melchizedek's innate priestly nature.
To keep Melchizedek safe from the lawlessness of the pre-flood world, God commands the archangel
Michael to take Melchizedek to the Garden of Eden in heaven so that he can become God's
high priest after the flood.
God also appears in a dream at night to Melchizedek's father and gives him this promise.
An important theme of two Enoch is the idea that a supra-human mediator figure to quote
Lutheran theologian Charles A. Geishin, rather than the Jewish law, is needed in order to
provide true deliverance from sin.
Although the origins of two Enoch are obscure, Geishin thinks it was written by a group that
believed the Levitical priesthood in Jerusalem to be impure.
This community, whoever they were, yearned for a divine mediator who could provide deliverance
from the sin that had corrupted Israel and the world as the original priest of God miraculously
ordained at the very beginning of history and then preserved in heaven for a time of
destruction and judgment.
Melchizedek seems to be an archetype for that deliverer.
Geishin summarizes the Melchizedek-related portion of two Enoch as follows.
The generative idea of Suh-Dinok 69 through 73 is the need for a priestly mediator to
provide deliverance from the grip of evil and offer atonement for sins.
These chapters catalogua the divine Oregon and birth of a supra-human priest who will
deal with evil and make atonement for sin.
A very degenerative view of the Levitical priesthood is presented here.
This indicates that it was probably still functioning at the time when this document
was written.
The Gospel of Melchizedek
The most important Dead Sea scroll concerning Melchizedek is a remarkable text called 11Q
Melchizedek which probably dates to the 1st century BC although some scholars push it
back to the 2nd century.
The Judean community that produced this scroll apparently believed Melchizedek himself to
be the one who in Psalm 110 sits at God's right hand, has dominion over his enemies
and brings judgment.
Accordingly, they looked for other Jewish texts that described such a figure.
One in particular they discovered was Psalm 82.
According to 11Q Melchizedek, Melchizedek is the Elohim or God who sits in judgment
and exercises God's authority in Psalm 82.
11Q Melchizedek combines this Psalm with Peshir style interpretation of Torah passages about
the day of atonement and the year of Jubilee.
To reinvent Melchizedek as a savior who in the last days will fight and destroy the armies
of the devil Belial.
Such humanity, set the captives free, provide atonement for the people of Zion and usher
in a new age of peace, Christological roles that should be familiar to any Christian.
11Q Melchizedek also connects Melchizedek to the Gospel or good news that is proclaimed
in Isaiah 52-7.
Thus Melchizedek is Isaiah's messenger who announces peace and salvation and the phrase
Malach El Hayek or El Hayek.
Forgive me for mispronouncing this word, but it means your God is king is understood as
a pun or allusion to Melchizedek's name.
Furthermore, 11Q Melchizedek identifies Melchizedek as the anointed priest in the in time prophecy
of Daniel 9.25.
This is the day of peace which he spoke of through Isaiah the prophet who said, How beautiful
upon the mountains are the feet of the messenger who announces peace, the messenger of good
who announces salvation, saying to Zion, Your God is king and the messenger is the anointed
of the spirit, the one about whom Daniel said, Until an anointed one, a prince, it shall
be seven weeks.
There are a handful of other fragmentary Dead Sea Scrolls that Melchizedek appears in if
scholars reconstructions of those scrolls are correct.
In one called The Visions of Amram, he is equated with Michael, the Prince of Light,
and Angelic counterpart to Belial, the Prince of Darkness.
In Songs of the Sabbath Sacrifice, he is again portrayed as an angelic priest who serves
in the heavenly sanctuary.
Melchizedek in the Epistle to the Hebrews
The Epistle to the Hebrews is an oddity among the books of the New Testament.
While Pauline theology and the gospels interpret the death of Christ through the metaphor of
the Passover Lamb, Hebrews approaches it as a Yom Kippur or Day of Atonement Sacrifice
which serves a very different purpose in Judaism.
Hebrews also seems to have no room for a physical resurrection of Christ in its theology.
Instead, Christ's ascension to heaven where he presents his own blood as an Atonement
Sacrifice is the direct and immediate consequence of his crucifixion.
To explain how Christ could be the heavenly High Priest despite being from the seed of
Judah and not a Levite, Hebrews invokes the High Priest mythology of Melchizedek.
Christ may not be a Levite, but to the author of Hebrews, Christ is a divinely created
Son of God and his eligibility for priesthood is affirmed by comparing him to Melchizedek
who according to Hebrews 7.3 is also
The idea that Melchizedek is immortal probably originates with the statement in Psalm 110
verse 4, especially in the Septuagint, that Melchizedek is a priest forever, a connection
with the Jewish tradition of 11 Q. Melchizedek is also implied because both 11 Q. Melchizedek
and Hebrews link the Messianic High Priest and salvation of God's people to the Yom Kippur
ritual.
A point of similarity that cannot be derived from either of the two Melchizedek passages
found in the Old Testament.
More generally speaking, the author of Hebrews assumes that his audience is already fully
acquainted with a well-developed tradition in which Melchizedek is not a dead historical
character but an eternal priest in the heavenly temple.
In the verses that follow, the author of Hebrews defends the superiority of Melchizedek's
priesthood by arguing that because Abraham paid tithes to Melchizedek and the Levites
were descended from Abraham, the Levites who were still in the loin of Abraham also paid
tithes to Melchizedek in a sense.
He then goes on to argue that tithes received by one who is immortal are superior to tithes
received by mortal men, confirming that for the author, Melchizedek is still alive and
serving in the heavenly temple.
Incidentally, this is why it is so important for English Bibles to translate Genesis 14
as having Abraham pay tithes to Melchizedek instead of the other way around.
If we instead allow that it was Melchizedek who gave tithes to Abraham, the logic of Hebrews
and its doctrine of soteriology collapses.
As an aside, Christians who believe in the literal inerrancy of the Bible must contend
with the fact the author of Hebrews has such a lofty view of Melchizedek as an immortal
angelic priest, a view that goes well beyond what can be gleaned from the canonical Old
Testament.
The conclusion of this argument in Hebrews chapter 7 is that Christ must be the one spoken
of in Psalm 110, and the oath sworn by God that Christ would live on as a priest forever
makes his position superior to the earthly Levites who must continue to offer sacrifices
day after day.
Over the years, scholars have often noted the affinity between Hebrews and the Dead
Sea Scrolls, and a few have speculated that Hebrews might have been written for an audience
of Essenes who had converted to Christianity.
One New Testament scholar, the late John O'Neill of Edinburgh University, even goes
so far as to suggest that Hebrews was originally written about the Teacher of Righteousness,
the martyred leader of the Jewish sect at Qumran, and only later revised as a Christian
epistle.
This proposal is based not only on the theology of Hebrews, but also on the fact that every
appearance of the name Jesus, aside from the epistolary appendix at the end, is either
missing from certain manuscripts or can be challenged on grammatical grounds as a secondary
gloss.
O'Neill's view has not been widely accepted, and is probably not even known to most scholars
today.
The fact that such a position is possible shows how well Hebrews fits into a pre-Christian
Jewish framework.
The potential connection between Hebrews on the one hand and the Melchizedek traditions
of Qumran on the other has long been controversial among scholars.
Harold Atridge of Yale Divinity School, in a recent paper, describes the author of Hebrews
as a
sophisticated rhetorician and exegete, who seems to be aware of various esoteric interpretations
of the Melchizedek character without committing to any of them.
Norwegian scholar Anders Aschem, on the other hand, argues in a 1999 paper that the tradition
found in Hebrews is very much the same as the one found in 11Q Melchizedek, wherever
the author may have learned it.
Benjamin Ribbons, in a recent book on Hebrews, also points out the sharp criticism in Hebrews
towards the Levitical priesthood and the inefficacy of Levitical sacrifices, a viewpoint that
is shared by 11Q Melchizedek in particular.
No matter how the puzzle of the book of Hebrews and its origins gets resolved, our exploration
of the Melchizedek legend through the ages demonstrates that belief in a heavenly high
priest who was once a human on earth, who was elevated to God's right hand in heaven,
and who will bring judgment, atonement, and salvation at the eschaton, was present in
Jewish communities well before the earliest Christian writers began applying these beliefs
to Jesus.
Please subscribe to Paul Davidson's YouTube channel, Inquisitive Bible Reader.
Like this video, leave your thoughts in the comment section, and join our Patreon and
YouTube membership programs as well, and never forget, we are MythVision.
