Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
James the just, James the brother of the Lord.
Mythicists say this is probably just a pillar but not a biological brother.
We can maybe address this.
At the same time though, I want to go further than that simple, typical argument I hear
between Mythicist and Historicist, did he exist or not?
I want to go deeper into the things you've explored on this character, who this man was.
Peter's got the keys to the kingdom but James rules the church and he has to see subordinate?
Something's up and I guess what really gets me in most of my audience, whether you're
a Mythicist, watching this or a Historicist, I love what you do.
Because what we've been told by the authorities, I say the authorities by the authoritarian
church about what is true, has a big question mark.
I'm highly suspect of the narrative that we have been given, not to say it doesn't work
for some people, but I think there's political reasons when you get in the second century
why they do certain things the way they do them.
So tell us who James is, what's his role, what did he do, and then maybe we touch on
the epistle of James.
Well, let me start with when you visit the Vatican, which I've done a few times, and
you walk up the main steps into the center entrance, you have Paul on the right, Peter
on the left, these colossal, amazing statues.
And they were martyred in Rome supposedly, whether, you know, possibly, I'm not sure
about Peter, Paul probably, and you have to ask, where's James?
Because this is the headquarters of the Christian church, you've got the Pope inside, and he's
a successor of Peter, not James, so what happened to James?
And then you flip open Galatians, which we've touched on a number of times, and we find
that the pillars are James, Peter, and John, presumably John the son of Zebedee.
I've written a lot about James, it's in the Jesus dynasty, it's a major part of that.
The title of the book, The Jesus Dynasty, is the idea that there's a caliphate.
It's not just a Muslim term, a caliphate means that blood lineage is important for leadership.
And so Sunni and Shia are one example of that.
But also, how about the line of David, you know, in others you've got to be of the line
of David, or most of the royal houses of Europe, even though there's intermarriage
and different ways to get it more complicated as time goes on, but anyway.
So when Jesus dies, his brother is appointed, and most Christians just reading the New Testament
don't really recognize that, or it doesn't strike them with the force that it probably should.
And some would not even notice it, but who's in charge in Acts 15, and this is Acts.
And Luke plays down the family like you wouldn't believe.
First of all, in chapter four, he doesn't even name the brothers,
doesn't even say anything about the brothers.
And also, all the way through, he plays down Mary.
I've written a book on Mary.
It's called The Lost Mary.
Probably because of COVID, all the books are back up now.
Unfortunately, it probably won't come out until 2023 spring.
So, you know, it's going to be a little bit of a wait.
But it's because they stopped like 50 books for publication because of politics and all the stuff going on with Trump and so forth.
But anyway, but in there, I really cover it pretty thoroughly.
But Mark has, you know, Mark again, Mark six, verse three.
Jesus is the son of Mary.
You know, that's another subject like who's the father, but son of Mary,
James, Joseph, Simon and Judah, his brothers, Matthew has that as well.
So these brothers are here and they're mentioned.
So Luke knows they're there, but why should, who's this guy that stands up and says, my decision is?
I mean, that's huge.
And Paul has to go see him to kind of get clearance on things.
So we get more outside the New Testament, but Paul does say he names him first.
He said, I didn't see all the apostles, but I saw James, the Lord's brother.
OK, I think they're biological if they're Mary's kids.
It's the most obvious interpretation.
I think most scholars think that.
But because of sexuality and Mary needing to be a perpetual virgin, which is very
non-Jewish, by the way, have a baby and then get married, never have sex again and have kids,
violates the first commandment of the Torah, be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth.
So the Western church says they're cousins.
They're Joseph's brothers, Clofis's kids.
And the Eastern church says they're Joseph's kids from a previous marriage.
He's a widower.
So they'd be like half brothers, you know, but not really even half brothers,
because Joseph's not Jesus's father.
So they're just like household brothers.
It's even, I guess, is that stepbrothers?
Yeah, I guess that would be stepbrothers.
Anyway, so, but if we look at other sources, you begin to see that the idea of biological,
I think, is pretty strong.
You can read the book and judge it yourself.
But I think he's very important.
Now, we get things like the Gospel of Thomas.
The disciples ask, whenever you leave us, who do we go to?
Go to James the just for whom heaven and earth have come to be.
Now, that's a Jewish expression.
It refers to a group called the Lamed Vavnik.
They're the 36 righteous because 36 is one more than like 70 divides in half.
And then you have one plus.
So it's the majority of the Sanhedrin.
So the develops within mystical Judaism, this idea that as long as there's 36 righteous people on earth,
God won't destroy the world because that's that's enough.
So for whom heaven and earth came to be as a way of saying that he's one of the.
He's one of the pillars, not just to the church, but of the world.
He's very right.
He keeps the world from being destroyed because it's back to Abraham.
Like, what if there were 10?
Would you?
Oh, no, if there were 10 and they couldn't even find 10.
And it's also in Malachi, lest I come and strike the earth with a curse.
And the word curse is carometer destruction.
Malachi is the last verse of the Hebrew Bible in the prophets, at least,
not of the Hebrew Bible, which ends in chronicles.
But anyway, so I think it's he's a brother.
Jesus grew up with him.
There's we don't know a lot about him.
Did he believe in Jesus at first?
Did he come later?
He does get an appearance, which is very important.
But we only know it from Paul.
Notice, gospels are leaving mentioned Luke, not at all, really, in the gospels.
And then yet we get Paul.
He appeared to Peter, the apostles and so forth.
He appeared to James.
So he gets an appearance.
Maybe that's when he decided, you know, my brother is the one.
But anyway, then we get lots of later sources,
Clement of Alexandria, Clement of Rome, Irenaeus.
They all talk about and and the leadership was given over to James.
It's pretty uniform.
I give all the the best book.
The best Isomans is the thickest, most thorough study.
I want to give him credit for pioneering Jamesian studies.
But the best book for people that just want to get an overview would probably be Painter,
John Painter, with the brilliant title, Just James.
Many.
It's just done, James.
And it's a wonderful book.
And and he takes a lot of Isomans stuff and other material and presents it.
But those are the two books I would recommend on James.
And then there's other books.
Nusner edited a book on James.
So James James has become big now.
You know, I remember when I started this stuff 25, 30 years ago,
it's like people at James who right.
And James has actually got into the public now because of the ossuary.
Which is a question about James.
I'd like to ask you.
Isomans has a thesis about or he he proposes Stephen stoning an axe is kind
of a secret cover up, if you will, of the James.
Yeah, what what do you think there?
I don't want to, you know, I don't want to take a position on the way
characters get represented again and so forth, because it's too convoluted.
An argument.
But I do think he has shown these parallels and themes that didn't just come out of nowhere.
So was there like not a historical Stephen, but it's really talking about James.
But we do have in the Clementines, the pseudo-Clementines,
and that's what he's talking about, especially the Syriac version that we now have.
A reference to James about this time, seven years after the crucifixion,
getting thrown down on steps and almost left for dead.
But he recovers and then he later dies in 63.
So we have, you know, this is where he's developing it.
And I certainly am open to those ideas that don't think you're reading acts
and you're getting like, oh, this is a straight historical.
I call that the master narrative that's taken over the world.
But that's why people are saying James, who?
Because they don't because you're reading a guy that basically deep six James.
And therefore, you know, you don't know much about James.
So what do we know?
Well, I'm pretty extravagant.
I don't I don't I think Eisenman might agree with this.
In fact, I think he might have maybe maybe he does say this.
Yes, I'm pretty sure he does thinking back.
But I would agree with him.
James is the beloved disciple and John, but very disguised now.
But the one to whom Jesus puts his mother or into whose whose care Jesus puts his mother.
The Zebedee idea is crazy.
He's a fisherman.
There's nothing good ever said about Zebedee.
I think he's rebuked twice by Jesus and the Gospels.
One is when he wants the position on the right and left hand with his brother.
And the other is he wants to burn a village that didn't accept them.
And Jesus says, you don't even know what spirit you're of.
So this image of the Zebedee.
Now, there's another John, John the Elder that is this like love one another guy and so forth.
And that could be, we think there might be two, two Johns.
That's what Eusebius says, but that's another subject.
Anyway, I think James is a beloved disciple.
That would mean that he's at the Last Supper.
And we have even at sources that put him at the Last Supper.
He's very important.
Eisenman says this, and I agree with him.
If you want to understand the early Jesus moment, go to James the Just.
And he's going to give you the clue more than Paul is.
I'm talking about before Paul.
Yeah. And therefore it's, we didn't just lose a character like, oh, well,
we don't know much about James.
We've lost this whole ethos that he represents.
And yes, a lot of it's reflected in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
It's just a way of thinking about the redemption, about salvation,
about the world, about the future.
And it's not this dualistic polling cosmic thing.
It's much more on earth as it is in heaven.
The earth is important.
The earth is the place to be.
So he's important.
The letter, look, everybody says it's good Hellenistic Greek, a semi,
a literate or even a literate person like James, a Jew from the first century
couldn't have written it.
But when you read the themes of James, I find it quite striking that
he only refers to Jesus twice.
And if you take those references out, the sentences read perfectly well.
Like, hold not the faith in vain.
If a poor man comes into your assembly, says, hold not the faith
of our Lord Jesus in vain.
Well, that's the faith of the prophets.
That's the faith of the Torah.
That's, you know, and then he mentions them in verse one.
And the rest, he does it, never even mentions Jesus.
Nothing about the blood of Jesus, nothing about the cross of Jesus.
No Pauline themes whatsoever.
And whether he's addressing Paul or not about the faith in works, he's
trying to say two things that forgiveness is given by God all the way through the
Bible, you know, that didn't start with Jesus.
Jesus even said that with the two men who went up to pray in the temple, the
humble one who repented went up justified.
He's not a Christian.
You know, you turn to God in prayer.
Read Psalm 51, David's prayer.
It's nothing about Christianity.
You turn to your Creator, repent with all your heart.
That's the piety of James.
And if you notice that a lot of the ethics are right out of the sermon on the
Mount or Q, as I would, you know, the Q source, like swear not at all.
And don't do this and don't do that.
So I think it's probably our closest reflection.
It is apocalyptic.
The judge stands at the door.
Remember that?
And you got, and the judgment's coming.
But notice it's going to be on people that are not paying wages to their workers.
You see, it has kind of a different political, social, yeah, earthly thing.
So I love the book.
I think it might be our last chance to glimpse maybe some kind of way of
thinking that survived from the James movement.
But I can't prove that James, the historical James wrote it.
I love the way he addresses the 12 tribes, though, because he apparently
feels that if that a 12 are going to sit on 12 thrones, judging the 12
tribes of Israel, then who's going to be the main guy in the middle?
He said, well, that would be Jesus on earth.
Who's the representative of Jesus on earth?
It seems like he's saying, I'm James.
I'm writing to the 12 tribes.
See, so real quick, the 12 tribes, because we only got like one minute, two
minutes. How do you define that?
Because there's different people who define that differently.
But do you think that's the Jewish diaspora that the 12 tribes he's writing
to or he's broader?
He probably has a new constituted.
Just he's well aware of the prophets.
They've been scattered among the nations and he probably believes like Paul.
They're coming back through the now that the Messiah is here.
He's Isaiah 11.
You mentioned it.
He's going to regather the tribes and he's going to gather the nations too.
He's going to be assigned to the nations to bring righteousness.
The nations are part of it.
You can't leave them out, but you have to have all Israel save first.
Right.
Now, whether James would use that exact language like Paul, I'm not sure, but
he's got some idea.
You can't read the prophets without thinking that God has to reconstitute
Israel, even if Israel is broader or to find more broadly, maybe not so ethnically.
Because even the Jews, after all these years back then, you know,
it's not like everybody could show.
Plus, look at all the foreigners that married into the in the Hebrew Bible.
Joseph married an Egyptian.
Moses married an Ethiopian at one point, a Kushite.
And that was OK, unless you go to Ezra.
But that's under a specific political situation that
you don't paint that everywhere.
But there's some people who do that.
Thank you so much.
OK, I hope that helped.
