I think about idealism, I think that idealism is really counter-intuitive and very hard to defend
and I'm not entirely clear that it isn't self-defeating.
A miracle that would be convincing, it said, would be God healing amputees, something that occurs regularly
and we don't have a natural explanation for it and it occurs in correlation with, say, prayer.
But when it comes to miracle arguments that are nested in, as you said, prior beliefs
and also a very long time ago, based on reports that happened lifetimes afterwards,
one of the things that strikes me as unlikely is that a god would dangle salvation based on
whether or not we accept that proposition under those circumstances.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert,
and my co-host today is Stephen Woodford. Welcome to MythVision.
Thank you very much. It's always a pleasure. Well, I say always. I've only been on once before,
but still. Yeah, we're in Texas, but look, we have a god before us today and I don't mean that to
kisses, but Graham Oppie, Dr. Oppie has joined us again and Dr. Oppie, if you can for our audience,
you have been on MythVision before. However, there are some people who go,
who is this gentleman? What is your background? What makes you an expert in philosophy? Because
we're going to go deep, seriously deep, into some philosophical concepts today.
Can you tell us a little bit about yourself? Okay, so I'm a philosopher at Monash University
in Melbourne, Australia, where I've been based for the last 25 years. Mostly I teach
philosophy of religion. Most of my research is in philosophy of religion as well, though
I kind of dabble in metaphysics, epistemology, philosophy of science, and a few other things
as well. I've written a bunch of books in philosophy of religion. Some of them I've just
mentioned quickly. So I wrote a book called Ontological Arguments and Belief in God back in
the mid-90s, about ontological arguments. One called Arguing About Gods in 2006, I think it came out,
which is more general coverage of arguments for and against the existence of God.
And recently I've written some more popular books or books that are aiming for a kind of wider
audience, including Atheism the Basics, which is in the Routledge Basics series,
Naturalism and Religion, which was also published by Routledge. And other things are not coming to
mind right now. Yes, I look, there's like a Bible. If you have a long rap sheet of experience,
expertise, books, I hope everybody goes in the description, check out his Amazon link.
You could read for years and still have stuff to read. So we'll just tell them that actually,
recently read The Basics of Atheism from Graham. And yeah, highly recommend
syncing it even to that. It's a really good way in specifically if you're interested in,
well, for many reasons, but one such reason is if you're interested in the debate of how to
define Atheism, which is such a tedious debate, but it comes up. So yeah, syncing it even there.
It really does. Today, me and Stephen came up with a title that we thought was necessary.
Why is Atheism a better explanation than Theism? It's really simple. But it comes up all the time
and I figure I'll start off with my question. Stephen can help me put the icing on the cake
in a philosophical way so that it's in a language Graham may understand because sometimes I bloviate,
but recently there was a debate between Dr. Bart Ehrman and Michael Lacona. And Lacona was
taking the approach that the resurrection can somehow be proven historically using a historical
methodology. And Bart went and took kind of a David Hume approach and was like, come on,
I like look around every day what happens on the normal. You're trying to argue that one man out
of, I can't remember how many human Homo sapiens have existed since we would account this, but
one, this only happened once. And you're acting like this is somehow actually historically
reliably true. So he took this philosophical approach, kind of a David Hume approach. And I
had Christians actually tell me, no, no, no, you know what's wrong? Bart's philosophy is all wrong.
And like, he just doesn't have proper philosophy and epistemology. If he only knew proper
philosophy and epistemology, he wouldn't be making these arguments against miracles. And as a just
a normal human who once used to buy miracles but never took in a critical approach, I'm thinking
to myself, I don't see the things that you're seeing in these texts happening on a daily basis.
Is it really absurd to take the approach Bart Ehrman's taken? So Steven, package that in a way
that's more to the point I'm trying to get across. I think you did a fairly good job. But I guess we
could just say that you were talking about miracles and like maybe their ontological price tags and
like the verifiability and the rest. So Dr. Api, I don't know if that was a
mute to respond to. So I really like what Hume says about miracles in the inquiries.
Not so much the a priori argument, but the kind of our posteriori arguments that he gives the
the the points that he makes, which are related to the point that you're making about
the fact that there's an enormous amount of testimony to miracles historically and in the
present. And you could everybody agrees, everybody agrees that almost none of it stands up to critical
scrutiny. So miracle claims, whatever they are. So there are many that have emerged in the last
20 or 30 years claims about statutes of elephants in India having tears of milk, for example,
milk coming out of their eyes and things. But very few people in the circles that we're moving in
take those claims seriously. Well, why not? Part of the reason that you are gesturing out is because
our experience just tells us that those things don't happen. And second, we can see that the
people making the claims are motivated to make those claims. They have they have reasons in their
prior beliefs that predispose them to taking whatever the particular claims are that are being
pushed seriously. But people who don't share their beliefs are pretty much uniformly skeptical
about them. And it's not just in the present. If you look back into the past, there's this similar
pattern and people just agree generally and have the people making the miracle claims that even
if we don't know what their motivations were, we don't think that they're reliably reporting on stuff
that happened. So there's just a quick summary. Yeah, thank you. One of the things that comes to
mind with miracles is a miracle that would be convincing, it said, would be God healing amputees.
Something that would be something that occurs regularly and we find it. Yeah, it occurs regularly
and we don't have a natural explanation for it and it occurs in correlation with say prayer.
But when it comes to miracle arguments that are nested in, as you said, prior beliefs and also
like a very long time ago, based on reports that happened lifetimes afterwards. One of the things
that strikes me as unlikely is that a God would dangle salvation based on whether or not we accept
that proposition under those circumstances. Especially intelligent one, right? So I think
it's quite important. So this came up in the chat beforehand. One of the important things
is to remember that the first question, the primary question is to look at the reports
of the miracles. We've got to make some assessment about whether we think they're reliable or not
and we don't go on to start speculating about how these things could have happened.
There are real people involved in the descriptions, how the real people responded
to the events that are alleged to have happened and so on. The first question is going to be
about the reliability of the reports. So just to give you an example, quite recent one. So
a few years ago, I was on radio in Melbourne just before Easter, talking about the meaning
of Easter to non-believers. And on the day after, a guy rang me up, a guy who didn't sound crazy,
but he proceeded to tell me, so he spoke for about half an hour, about how he could heal
people by touch and how lots of people had witnessed him doing it and so he could heal
all kinds of things. And so I just let him talk and eventually I had to go to a meeting
and so I just sort of at the end we cut it off. It was obvious, as I'm sure it is to you,
that whatever was going on with him, he didn't have the ability to heal people by touch. I just
think about the sensation that this would cause if you could just sort of stand at the entrance
to the hospital and go ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding and just heal people. Medicine would
be completely transformed. It was obvious that even though superficially he was quite rational,
there was something deeply, I think, wrong with him at the time. And that's not uncommon. And so
that's one of the issues with the origins of some, though by no means all of the
miracle reports, is that they originate with someone like that who tells other people and,
unlike me, those other people take what he says at face value and believe it. Now we've got,
and you know, they tell other people and before too long you've got these long chains of testimony
and you've got stories up and running, but what they started with was not an event in the world,
right, that was accurately reported. What they start with is a guy like that who,
it's unclear what, why he was saying what he was saying, right, but it was clear, and I was,
I was not sure, it would be obvious to everybody who's listening, that he didn't have the ability
that he claimed to have and he wasn't doing the things that he claimed to be doing.
Yeah, no, that's good. And it's like when people do buy miracles, they don't tend to buy the
miracles as you touched upon from other religions and other claims, like someone that believes in
the resurrection doesn't typically believe that Muhammad split the moon into, and it's for exactly
the same reasons that a naturalist would say, look, or even the Muslim would say, no, we don't
think that the resurrection was a thing. Yeah, is there anything else you wanted to add there,
Derek, on miracles? Oh, did Dr. Api want to add? So we could talk a little bit more about these,
I mean, about the resurrection maybe and the claims there. So we've got, we've got a bunch of
documents written, I mean, and there's controversy about how, how, how they were written, how long
after the events they were written and so on. But on the weight of scholarship, including not just
the kind of evangelical scholarship, but the kind of liberal scholarship as well, probably the earliest
ones that about 70, the latest, John could be as late as 115, on their own reckoning, at least a
couple of synoptics, reports of what people at the time that they were written believed. They
didn't purport to be eyewitness accounts. There's no indication of how they collected the stories
that were written down. It was just, this is our version of events now. What happened between the,
whatever it was, 40 to 90 years, right, between whatever happened and the events were written
down is plenty of time for lots of details, that kind of supernatural stuff to have gotten in there,
even though no supernatural stuff happened back at the time when whatever, whatever the
events were, if there were events at all, but I'm just, you know, we don't have to take a stand
about that. If you've got that sort of approach, then there's no question about trying to find
an explanation for the resurrection. What you, what, what you're likely going to say is, okay,
so you've got these texts that report a resurrection, and we've got no reason to think
that this is a bit of history. And then you don't have to start sort of myth-making of any kind.
Thank you so much for that, Dr. Oppie. I really appreciate you, and thanks, Stephen,
for letting me get my questions out of the way. The watchmaker argument is something that I used
to love about 10, 12 years ago as a Christian. I'd read all these books, and I'd be like,
whoa, fascinated with it. Stephen, why don't you take us into this a little more,
and let's see what Dr. Oppie has to say. Yeah, sure. So, well, before Darwin,
teleological arguments, and more specifically, the watchmaker analogy was the theist's best friend,
their favorite way, if you want to call it that. But while it still has prominence
among certain groups, as you said, like your prior self and probably some of your family members and
friends, Derek, buy into it, it seems as though cosmological arguments have well and truly taken
the throne. But relating to the watchmaker analogy, I was wondering, Graham, if you existed before
Darwin, do you think that you would be a theist because of the watchmaker analogy? Or do you
think you might have been like a Hume or a Percy Bischelli and had figured it out?
So, so it's hard to know what I would have been. It's hard to answer that question. It seems like
those kinds of counterfactuals are pretty hard to assess. But I like, I really like
Hume's dialogues concerning natural religion, and I have a new paper on that, which will,
there's a book on the dialogues that's, that Russell's putting together. I mean, it's still
a couple of years away from completion. So you might see it for a while. But my chapter is about
the design argument in Hume's treatment of it in the dialogues. And I think that he's got about 10
different criticisms of the argument in the dialogues. And the combined effect of those
criticisms is enough to kind of completely undermine the force of the argument. Of course,
leaving aside some kind of speculations that Hume and others made, before Darwin, people
really didn't have a clue about the origin of species. But
you're not having a clue doesn't mean that the best explanation was going to be to appeal to
a particular religious tradition and the story that it tells about the origins.
Yeah, that's interesting, because it seems like a lot of people have a disposition where they think
we should buy the best explanation, even if we can kind of see that it's not particularly great at
explaining what we're observing. And it seems intuitively, as long as that like correlates
with an intuition, which a lot of people have, which is as far as I can tell why watchmaker
analogy and arguments like that are so convincing, they really like pull on our intuition, which is
at least by my opinion, why, you know, arguments pertaining to Hilbert's hotel and whatnot also
have that same effect, they pull on our intuitions. People mistake the intuition as a good reason to
buy into a certain idea, especially if it also correlates with the idea that they might, you
know, survive death and whatnot. But no, thank you for your answer on that. I appreciate it.
So one of the ideas that Hume plays with at various points in the dialogues is just that
there's this kind of eternal principle of order in the natural world and things, it's kind of
inevitable that you're going to have an orderly universe and that it's quite likely that you'll
get animals and so on. And he thinks that that's going to be a better explanation than the kind
of standard Christian explanation. And he has various reasons for thinking that, right? Now,
that's, that's pre Darwin, right? It doesn't, it's not clear, even post Darwin, that naturalists aren't
ultimately going to be forced back to saying something similar, not about the biological case,
but maybe about fine tuning case, that they're going to have to say that, you know, there's this,
this perhaps it's necessary, perhaps it's intrinsic or something like that to the natural order.
But if you, if you suppose that the fine tuning is intrinsic or it's necessary or something like that,
you've got an explanation for it. And then the only remaining question is going to be whether
it's a more expensive explanation than, say, buying the whole of Christianity.
You've got a lot of money for that, you know what I mean?
There's definitely questions that relate to that. But yeah, no, that's a great answer. Thank you.
I thought it might be good if we pivot towards morality, because it's another thing that we,
you know, experience in life. And there's a question of whether theism or naturalism does
a better job of explaining it. So objective morality, is it a thing? And if so,
does theism or naturalism better explain it? So yeah, so this is interesting, right? I mean,
naturalists just cover the whole spectrum from people who are kind of element of us about morality
to people who think that they're immoral truths to some subjectivists and projectivists and a
whole range. There's a whole lot of stuff just because philosophers can't make up their minds
about or at least haven't managed to reach any kind of consensus about morality.
It seems fine that naturalist opinion is all over the place on this one to me.
If you ask for my own perspective, I'm inclined to think that probably
the best position is going to be one that says that yes, they are moral truths. In fact,
there are some claims that are necessary. But that's me. It's a kind of idiosyncratic position.
It's not something that's inherent to naturalism. Would that be would that be like a platonic form
or of some sort? No, I'm not thinking that. Another part of me is a nominalist, so I don't
want to have abstract objects at all. But I'm happy to think that to suppose that
modal claims are true, right? So there are claims about what's possible and claims about what's
necessary that are just true. And one of my speculative claims, though I quite like this one,
is that I always talk about possible worlds. So I'm just going to do that for a sec.
That all the possible worlds share some history with the actual world and diverge from it only
because interterministic causation plays out differently. So I have a view that's quite narrow
about what the possibilities are. But it follows from that that if there's a kind of initial state
to the world that's necessary, so you get the necessity of the values of the constants in the
fine-tuning and you get a whole lot of stuff about what's necessary. I'm assuming that in any universe
like ours, it would be wrong to torture infants for fun. And it just turns out to be necessarily
true, right? Because there are no other kinds of universes other than ones that are like ours
because they all share our history, our laws, and so on.
Yeah, yeah. I've always found that. Sorry, Garum.
Sorry. So, I mean, again, that's all kind of idiosyncratic. That's all my views. It's not
stuff that naturalists generally are wedded to. But that's, you know, that's what I'm going to say.
Yeah, sweet. Do you want me to take another question there, Derek? I don't want to hug
it all. I'm just too excited. Yeah, no, no, no. Listen, this is definitely what I have you here for.
In fact, I knew when we talked in Texas, I was like, okay, you need to tell me more about philosophy.
But I'll be honest, I've just to butt in my little two cents here is that I was turned off
by philosophy because every time I ran into someone, everyone has a different, it's like
a denomination or a different theological position. Like, I talked to people, one guy said he was an
atheist, a hard atheist, you know, pretty much saying he had like a Gnostic understanding that
there was no God, full on like, not even the if you put percentages on it, he was 100, right?
He was so dogmatic. I don't know why, but huge red flags raised up, especially now that he converted
to Islam. And he said, I'm not, I'm not making this up. So I guess if I were to ask Graham,
without even like giving him any background knowledge and like giving him any more than this,
the guy said that he was big in the philosophy. He bumped into a bunch of other Muslims on YouTube
who are philosophy kind of thinkers, they convinced him that their philosophical position
was true. And he realized that atheism was wrong. All right, with just this amount of
information, if you were to try and give a speculation, would you say there was more
of a psychological need to be an in-group than actually having a philosophical position to say,
you know what, actually this philosophically makes far greater sense than naturalism?
I don't know, it's very hard without knowing that the people involved, I think, to make judgments
about that. And one of the things that seems to be true about philosophers as it's true about
everybody else is that you're greatly influenced by your teachers and your peers, the things that
you believe, even the things that you sort of figured that you worked out for yourself, it often
turns out that there are kind of patterns in your in-group and so on. So it's difficult to
criticize people for doing that when it seems like it's a kind of universal human trait.
Right. I just figure maybe it was something psychological and not just the philosophy that
convinced him. But I don't know, he went from atheist to I'm a Muslim, so it just kind of
shocked me too. And he like, well, you know, people go all over the place, there are lots of people
converting in one direction and converting in the other direction. In your country and in mine
and in Steven's, the direction of the trend since 1900 has been heavily in favour of people
losing their religious beliefs. So in 1900, the first census in Australia was 1901,
the country was 97% Christian. We are due for another census fairly soon and people are tipping
that for the first time that percentage will be under 50 in Australia. That's a big change over
the course of the century. Yeah. And I know that you've got a chapter on that in the basics of
atheism. So another reason you had to get Graham's work. Earlier, you were speaking about a necessary
being when you were talking about possible worlds. And you have this general critique of
cosmological arguments, which establishes an explanatory parity between naturalism and
theism, and then establishes a simplicity superiority for naturalism over theism. And I was
wondering, would you mind expanding upon that? Like, yeah. Okay, so there's a kind of idea
in philosophy of science about theory choice, that when you've got two theories that are
competing to explain the same data, the way that you make the choice is by looking to see
which of the theories does best at doing two things simultaneously, minimising its commitments,
so that is being as simple as it can be, and maximising explanation, explaining as much as it can.
And so I've applied that idea to cosmological arguments, to the cosmological data. So suppose
we think, why is there something rather than nothing? Right? Or why does the universe exist?
Or whatever we're thinking is the thing that is going to be explained, and we want to know
whether naturalism or theism is doing a better job. If we're thinking about the why is there
something rather than nothing, there's kind of a limited range of things you can say. One response
is going to be, there had to be. And theists and naturalists can both say that. Theists can say
there's necessarily an existing guide. Naturalists can say the universe exists of necessity at any
rate, the initial part of the universe exists of necessity. If the explanation, if what you're
looking for is why does the universe exist? Theists will say it exists because God made it,
maybe they'll think it's sort of contingent, God could have chosen to make a different
universe than the universe. Well, naturalists can still say it exists because it had to.
And when we're weighing up now the costs and benefits here, naturalists is committed to the
universe and has a necessity attaching, say, to the initial boundary. Theists have the universe,
maybe they make that initial boundary contingent, but then they have God and God's necessary.
It looks as though, straightforward accounting here, that theism is more complicated because it's
got God, both have got the universe and some necessity in there, but only theism has got God
and they both explain the data. So that as you summed up my view, naturalism is slightly simpler,
both views can explain the data. So you should prefer naturalism to theism. And I think that you
can run this kind of argument against every cosmological argument that there is. I mean,
there are lots and lots of different kinds of cosmological arguments, but once you sort of
zoom in on, okay, so what's the data here that's being explained? It doesn't look as though
theism is ever going to come out ahead of naturalism. Brilliant. You said about applying it to
different types of cosmological arguments, and that leads us perfectly to the next question.
And that is, how does this specifically work in reference to the column?
Right. So there'll be arguments where
there are other things that you want to say in criticism of them, so that you're not going to
come back to this point. So think about the column, syllogism, whatever begins to exist has a cause
of its beginning to exist, or it's coming to exist. The universe began to exist, so the universe has
a cause of its beginning to exist. If you think about what theist is going to say about God,
they're going to say that God, either they're going to have to say God didn't begin to exist,
or they're going to have to say, they're going to have to reject the premise that said that
everything that begins to exist has a cause, because they're going to say that God doesn't
have a cause. So they're going to say that there's this first thing that doesn't begin to exist.
So now let's think about the naturalist who's got the universe. Yes, we'll suppose there's a
beginning to it. There's a first bit, but it doesn't have a cause. It just has the same
status that God has. And so now we're done, right, because we've got the universe versus
universe plus God. The naturalist position is simpler. That will be the response.
Yeah, perfect. Perfect. I was just going to say one of the things I love in studying the
history of religions and how taking the evolutionary model to our history and
realizing where God's come from, the concepts of God's, it was like Stephen Pinker, I think,
that once said something like, you kind of wonder if the first man or woman that was speaking
and language is on the scene. And then they heard that voice in their head, which was really them.
And they were thinking, God, you know, like, like the mind that was outside of them, like, hold on,
hold on, or the thinking in their own head as if it's another mind. And it makes you kind of realize
like, okay, when we know where these gods come from, these ancient Near Eastern deities, or
you name it, polytheism, and then you go further back into nature worship and whatnot,
you kind of go, okay, gods have evolved these concepts. And so I know I'm going way back,
but it's like, we keep wanting to hold on to this, this evolutionary thing that was necessary,
I think, for our survival and part of our evolutionary development. And we're over here
getting hyper, you know, like, is God necessary, is this concept that we're talking about as God
even necessary after a while? Because in my head, I'm like, like this thing seems to be
an outdated model that keeps trying to update. This is Windows 2.0, Windows 3.0, God keeps
updating in the software to match what we've been talking about all along, which naturalism. So
anyway, sorry for being exciting. I just, it's just something I keep thinking about with all
these arguments. Do you want to add something to that? Okay, so I'll say something that Stamen
can jump in. So it's, you might think that it was kind of inevitable that we had belief in God
without thinking that it was necessary, without thinking that it kind of did anything good for
us as far as our survival and building a civilization and so on. When? And it's really
not clear because we don't, I mean, we have textual records that go back a few thousand years,
and we have archaeological evidence that goes back further, but the archaeological evidence
can tell us, for example, about burial practices, but don't tell us much about what the people believed.
So the kind of early history is really kind of speculative, right? The earliest text we've got,
there's the, there's things like the Vedas, but that's only sort of like at most a couple of
thousand years BC. So there's lots of speculation in there. And so of course, there's lots of
speculation about whether people had religions, if so, what their practices were and so on.
So that's the only point I'll make so far. Yeah, no, that's, that's fair. One of the things that I
think of, one of the things that comes to mind, I should say, when we're like talking about religion
and its necessity and like the idea that it's been with us for a lot, it reminds me of this argument
that's put across that Western civilization is based on Judeo-Christian values. And I think one
of the biggest signs that God is created in man's image is that you take, say, just take
Christians, you take the Christian of today, they might be accepting of homosexuals and totally
against slavery. And it just so happens that that's exactly the reading that they get out of their
Bible and they're certain that they're correct and other people have got it wrong. You go back
a hundred years, you're going to get like very different views. For example, you'll get a lot
more misogynistic views from the same text being read in a slightly different way. And the fact that
you can just trace this back. And basically what I'm saying is that I think that religion is just
as malleable and relative as so many other parts of the weave that makes up the sociology of humans.
Wasn't it Xenophane's that made the quote about, I think I'm saying this name correctly,
where he says like, if horses could draw images of their gods, they would look like horses. If it
was dogs, it would be dog. Like, yeah, I think that this is a good point. It's relative to the
experience and the observation of the animal or the creature itself and the world that it perceives.
That's kind of my point, I guess. I don't know. Yeah. So I mean, it's interesting to look at
the debate about slavery that emerged late in the 18th century and in the 19th century.
The first half of the 19th century, the pro-slavery arguments in the United States were mostly based
on scripture. And that's kind of tricky, I think. Yeah. I mean, one of the things I find very tricky
there is, so if I was an earnest Christian and I was reading the Bible, I would be homophobic
and I would be for slavery. I would find pretty much every Christian that I find,
I'd think that they're cowardice and they're not following it at all. So I would actually make
quite a fundamental Christian if I was convinced of their propositions. But it's malleable, right?
It's always so malleable. So some Christians will think that make a virtue out of this. I mean,
it depends. You don't have to be a fundamentalist. You can be quite a liberal Christian and you can
think that maybe it's understandable why people read the Bible that way, but we certainly shouldn't
read it that way now, right? Yeah. I find if they do that, though, they kind of give up the moral
objectivity that they like. Yeah, maybe. There's also teachings that I just can't help but think
of Jim Jones when I hear it in the New Testament. Hate your mother, your father, and they reinterpret.
They dip in the meaning of words. Jesus was radical. Let's just put it that way. And if you're not
radical, it's hard for me to think you're following Jesus. But then again, I was a fundamentalist,
Stephen. So I was looking at other Christians thinking there's no way you're a real Christian.
But even I wasn't following all the teachings of Jesus. So some of the teachings are radical,
not all of them are. Not all, not all. But then again, some of them actually we would think come
from probably Greek philosophy. Hard to say that some of these things even came from the mouth of
Jesus, you know. And you know, we were saying earlier about a movement towards like religion kind
of adapts with society. One of, at least from what I can understand from looking at like Roman
history. And one of the reasons that Christianity got a hold is that the Roman religion was very
war based and quite aggressive. And what they needed after they had got this empire together
is a different mode, like something where you can actually love and look after
your members. And like Christianity was a bit more compatible with that with some of the texts
and whatnot. So there was an argument of why it became a favored religion in that in during that
time. Yeah, so that's interesting. I mean, I'm sure there are other explanations that you could
give. You could say, well, look, it was quite a minor set until it happened that Constantine got
the bug, right? And then I mean, yes, there was a there was a reversal briefly. But basically,
once it was the religion of empire, that's when it spread. That's when it became deeply entrenched.
And it wasn't really any intrinsic features of true the religion. I mean, you could you could
argue it that way. Yeah, that's very true. Yeah, Constantine got the bug. Steven,
sorry, what are we doing next? Hey, I'm bringing us back to the clam, my dudes. That's what I'm
doing. Okay, I'm following you. Yeah, so I was so the clams tends to get broken into stages with
stage one, establishing a first cause. And stage two, normally drawing from whatever arguments
have been put forward for stage one to say, you know, it connects it to God. And I was wondering,
Graham, what do you think about the various arguments for stage two of the column? I'll
keep it open like that. Yeah. So it seems to me that it's not just the column, right? Cosmological
arguments in general have this feature that you argue, first of all, for something like a first
cause, an unmoved mover, whatever, you know, a cause of a necessary being, or whatever. And then
you argue, in the second part, somehow, we're going to identify that with the Christian God,
or the Muslim God, or the Jewish God, or maybe some other God, right? But you've got to,
there's a second stage, and you want to argue that there are various attributes
that this thing has. Those arguments always look to me much more wobbly than the
cosmological argument. First stage, which you're at liberty, if you're a naturalist,
to just accept the conclusion of and then just say, but it's not God, right? It's just, right?
And so if you're going to go that way, you're going to think that the thing doesn't have these
additional properties, it's not omniscient, it's not omnipotent, it's not, it doesn't have moral
properties at all. You'll agree, perhaps, that it's one, and you may not go much further than that.
So I think if you're, and the kind of naturalists that I am, you're going to think all those
arguments are really just, they just don't work. And there'll be different reasons, as there always
are, with arguments. When you're given an argument with a bunch of premises and a conclusion,
sometimes the conclusion is not supported by the premises, sometimes one or other of the
premises is false, and it's kind of just work to figure out what you want to say about any given
argument. That's why I argue about God's with such a big book.
If I could poke a little here, I've always been curious to wonder, we keep talking about cost.
What is the cost of this? What is the cost of that? In fact, it was Stephen who brought this to my
attention initially, was talking about the cost of this, and the cost of that. I'm like,
how are you paying for it? It's all abstract, and there's no really anything to buy.
But I'm starting to think, oh, that's what philosophers do. So one of my questions I have is
polytheism versus monotheism. If you have to pick one or the other, it sounds like if there's more
gods to play with, can you play a hypothetical where it costs the same as monotheism? Or is there
an argument to be made why a single God makes better sense than plenty of gods?
So if we're talking about which is the simpler theory, it seems as though it's
simpler to have one God than many. That will be especially true if the gods belong to different
kinds. So you've got one kind of thing versus many kinds of things, because they might all be
gods, but they might be different in various ways as they were in ancient pantheons. So there's
an argument, I think, from simplicity. There's some argument from simplicity, some considerations
about simplicity that are going to favor monotheism over polytheism. But then the question will be,
so what benefits would you have if you're a polytheist? What things could you explain that are
harder to explain on monotheism, particularly if we're contrasting it with the kind of
monotheism that makes God all-powerful, all-knowing, all-good, and so on? Well, now there's stuff
about the world that seems suboptimal in various ways. Maybe having many gods is going to help you
as versus the kind of standard omnigot anyway in explaining those features of the world.
When things are designed by committees, they don't always turn out to be optimal, so maybe the gods
just couldn't agree, and that's why we got the blind spot in the human eye as a kind of engineering
effect. I do find it interesting how monotheism, or what we call monotheism, gets clothed with
different hierarchies of beings that are spiritual powers. But really, if you go back far enough,
these Elohim, what we call angels in the Greek, were gods. They were divine ones. And so it goes,
you can see the system become monotheism over time. So this is an interesting point, because even then
the God was not all-powerful. You can see the God of the Bible to use an example to specifically
point out. He doesn't know where Adam is. He regrets making man. There's all sorts of like,
ah, why did I, dang it, like a dad angry at his kids. So I think that's right about the history
of Judaism. This goes back to the point that you made about the kind of evolution in the way that
people thought about God. It's not that from the beginning in, I mean, after all, if you go back
far enough, it looks as though the Jews were polytheists. It's really not until, maybe it's
after the Babylonian exile that they really get kind of confirmed in the monotheism. They also,
back, if you go back a couple of hundred years before that, practice child sacrifice as well.
I mean, there's, it's not like there's this monolithic thing with a set of monolithic teachings.
There's clearly this historical evolution. And the idea of God as a kind of omnipotent
omniscient perfect with good and so on, well, is a much more recent achievement than even,
you know, the, I think, than the Gospels, right? It comes later. It comes, it comes,
starts to come with the councils. I was, one more, Stephen, if you don't mind me jabbing,
just to get his thoughts on it. I was just going to say that on that front, there's a book by a
friend, I always get her name wrong, Francesca Stavokapulu, and like this book released. Oh,
we've got it. Snap, snap, snap, snap. Whereas Graham has no books on his shelf. Doesn't have
any themes. Let's come back to that in a minute and I'll explain. All right. Okay. All right.
So, just so I don't lose track, because I think I threw us off the column here,
but I know we're coming back to it. It's okay. Forgive me in advance. It was necessary.
It was necessary. I feel like the only way that monotheism really worked being that if we're
looking at the model I was describing, polytheism gets morphed into hierarchies where there's really
one God, but there's other powers beneath him and subordinate. You're kind of forced towards
determinism. It seems like it forces this philosophical determinism to take place,
which would make sense if you want to make God the author of all things evil and good. And
just everything happens. But really, it's kind of like Apostle Paul and Romans 9 was like,
who do you think you are, oh man, to answer to God? God does what he wants with the clay.
Shut your mouth and just keep doing what you're supposed to and obey.
That's what made me a Calvinist, actually, when I was a fundamentalist. I started studying the
Bible. It was like, whoa, God does good evil. He chooses who he wants before and after. It feels
like monotheism if you're going to have an Omni-God, Omni-This, Omni-That, Omni-That,
other than maybe Omni-Benevolence. You're forced into a determinism. Am I wrong?
So it depends. After all, there are some people who do go for theological determinism.
I guess that's what we'll call it. But lots of people don't. So you might think that the Omni-God
thought the best thing to do, in fact, perhaps the only thing to do that would kind of make
sense from God's perspective was to roll the dice a bit so that God didn't know what was
going to happen. That's good. I think Peter van Inwagen has an argument along the lines of saying
that if there's a necessary being, everything that comes from it's necessary. I might be wrong,
but I think he has an argument like that. So everything turns out to be necessary. You end
up with kind of like the best and worst of all possible worlds. But that's right. It's hard to
see how the contingency comes in unless you think that the first thing that God does is just this
indeterministic thing. So we've got our world, but it could have been something very different.
God just rolled the dice and this is what popped out. But now what you kind of lose
is the ability to ultimately explain lots of features of the world. It turns out that they're
just kind of brutally contingent, even though there's this necessary being.
Is that basically modal collapse you're looking at, like a spinoza?
Yeah, so that's what you're talking about. So this is how to avoid it.
Yeah, because I often hear philosophers saying we want to avoid it. And there is a part of me
that just goes, just bite that big bullet. It solves a lot, but I know it has its costs as well.
Right. So I mean, the kind of obvious costs that we make use of sort of counterfactual reasoning
all the time, but there you can't interpret that in a realistic way if you think that there's only
one possible world. True. David Lewis would be sacked completely gone. Well, so I'll just hear
most philosophers and not just the ones influenced by the
Christians who thought that the whole world is contingent. God could have chosen not to make
anything. Right. So there's a kind of very deep contingency. But even amongst naturalists,
there are lots of them who think that there's contingency in the world. They might have just
located at the beginning and say, you know, the beginning is just it's contingent. Right.
Yeah. There's no explaining it. And it could have been otherwise. There's no explaining.
Lots of people don't like that. But it's one of that's also one of the acceptable positions.
That's part of the reason why I was talking about my necessitarianism before I said it's
kind of idiosyncratic. You don't have to go. Yeah, I've always found that if anyone is
confident when it comes to these kinds of questions, we're at like the beginning of
everything and all of these, you know, in relations to a necessary being and whatnot,
if anyone's super confident, that's a massive red flag. Because I just understand that anyone
could be super confident on a proposition like that. Yeah. If we're not done, we're not at the
hotel yet, are we? Well, the hotel was coming up. Okay, because I wanted to butt something in
in the midst of our column thing to ask Dr. Oppie his opinion. It's your show. I'm just happy.
Well, no, it's ours. It's ours here. This is us, brother. This is us. But I wanted...
Sorry, just when you said to me, hey, do you want to join me for a chat? I was like, hell yeah.
And then when you said it's going to be 1 a.m. at your time, I'm like, okay. And then you said,
I've got a guest, Graham Oppie. I was just like, all right, let me breathe. Come on, let's go.
He's like 6 a.m. I'll do it. I don't care. Whatever. You were down and you got your coffee.
This is a personal opinion. And I want to remove any emotions from this particular
opinion of yours, because I know your friends with Dr. William Lynn Craig. But William Lynn Craig
takes this conclusion that I find kind of ironic is sophisticated as he is. And he's far brighter
than I probably ever will be philosophically speaking. So I can't. I'm not here to poke or
jab. But someone as advanced as you in philosophy and him comes at the end of the roads and sees
people like you draw your conclusions and see, hey, the column, it doesn't work for me. It just
isn't something that I find true. But he holds to it almost like if people aren't seeing what he's
seeing, you're going to hell. This is like it's part of the belief system he has. Maybe you can
correct me if I'm wrong or not properly. And maybe I'm strawmaning him or something. But it seems
like when you come from a Christian background like that, that kind of weighs in more than the
philosophy. And he just doesn't see it as a rational conclusion other than following his
position. Am I am I like misrepresenting him based on your conversations with him?
So I haven't talked to him about his views about divine retribution, right? So I do know that he
thinks that there's hell and it's populated. But he might think that there's sort of
after death opportunities to kind of influence which way you go. I've got no idea about that.
So I mean, he's obviously does have the view that at any point in your life, he could convert,
right? So that you're going to hell. He's in no position to make a judgment about that until
you're actually dead, right? Because he doesn't know what's gonna, but he also doesn't know about
opportunities that would come later. So even by his, so I would think by his own life, he wouldn't
be making judgments as hard and fast as that. And he would certainly, but he certainly does think
that my views have mistaken that they're false, right? Right. And that in the end, that's really
where the kind of philosophical action is. We argue with each other about the truth of false
and infuse or about the reasonableness of believing this or that. Stephen, were you
one like urgent to say something? Go for it. No, I'm just I'm spying. It's not because I've got
someone to say it's just I'm happy. But okay. So if I may just a little more on that, just to point
out, like, do you think he thinks that your conclusions are irrational and that don't make
sense? Or does he think, okay, you know what, you've drawn a world that makes sense. It really does,
but you're wrong. And Jesus is the Lord and you're going to go to hell if you don't come to him. That's
all it is. But he does think that other views make sense. So he thinks that he's got from his
religious experience, he's got direct evidence of the truth of his views. Right. Now, obviously,
I claim I don't have that evidence. Right. And it's kind of hard to contradict me on that.
Right. For whatever reason, I don't have any of that sort of evidence. And so
when my believing proceeds, according to the evidence that I do have, more or less,
to the extent that any of us that is true of any of us. Right. And so he's not really in a position
to say that sort of by my own light, so I'm just kind of crazy and going wrong. I don't think.
I guess a response could be, but Graham, it's written on your heart. How can you deny this?
Right. But to the extent that I can inspect my heart when I look there, there's no writing.
Right. Yeah, that would be a miracle that would be hard to explain. I'll admit.
So we're going to go to the Infinite Hotel. But did you want to explain why you don't have an
infinite number of books behind you first? So I do think that there's a question about whether
really natural reality has an infinite regress or not. I mean, I think that there's pretty good
evidence that the early history of our universe is very small and dense and hot and could be
just the origin of everything. But it might be that there's a multiverse and
that regresses infinitely. And there are lots and lots of universes like ours that come into
existence in the multiverse. I don't see that as being ruled out. So I don't see infinite
regress as being ruled out. Obviously, in some sense, it will be simpler if it turned out that
there's just our universe. So you would need good reason to postulate a multiverse. I've
spoken to physicists who think that there may be good reason to suppose there is one.
But I think that that's still super controversial. So my own view is undecided between the two.
I kind of like the idea of a kind of necessary origin single universe. But I'm not wedded to it.
I couldn't happily go with the kind of view that says there's a multiverse with an infinite past.
Yeah, good. Sticking with the Hilbert's Hotel, defenders of the Kalam argue for its second
premise that the universe began to exist with both a priori and a posteriori arguments. And
one such a priori argument appeals to Hilbert's Hotel. It's Al Ghazali's argument, of course,
with infinite rotations of planets. But Craig has made it very popular using David Hilbert's work.
And what it allegedly shows is that actual infinites cannot exist. And I was wondering if
you could quickly take us through this argument and what your favorite response is to it.
Okay, so could there be an infinite hotel? That is a hotel with infinitely many rooms. So just imagine
a kind of infinite plane with a flat surface that just goes on forever
with a hotel and there's an entrance and sort of that way it just goes on forever.
Craig thinks that there's all kinds of absurdities that would be possible if it was possible for
there to be an infinite hotel. So for example, if the hotel was full and somebody turned up,
you could just move the person in room one to room two, the one in room two to room three,
and so on and fit the new person in even though the hotel was full. He says that's just absurd.
Right, and then there are other things which he thinks look even more ludicrous than that,
but that will do. Right, now there's so many different things to say in response to this
that it's hard to know where to start. What I'm inclined to say is that, go back to the view
that I mentioned where all the world's possible world shifts some common history with our world
and diverge on it because indeterministic causation plays out differently. I actually think it's
impossible for there to be an infinite hotel, but that's irrelevant to the question whether
there's a multiverse with an infinite past. Those are just different questions. So
he could be right about the hotel, that it really is impossible for there to be a hotel
with infinitely many rooms, and yet it's still perfectly possible that there's an infinite past
to the multiverse. Would another way to phrase that be that Hilbert's hotel would be one instantiation
of an actual infinite, and by ruling that out you don't actually rule out actual
infinites per se, you just rule out one. I mean you could put it that way, yeah.
So that's one of the kind of, I think of as a kind of more fundamental
objection. Suppose you have the view about possibility, that more or less if you can conceive
of something as possible. That's a view I don't like, but we're with it. But let's suppose we've
got it. Well now infinite hotels are conceivable. What's the problem? It would just turn out if
you had an infinite hotel that you could do this. You could fit in an extra person. If you
try to think about it filling in some of the details about how this world with the infinite
hotel works, and you're really serious about, we're going to kind of move person from room to
room. Each one's going to take a certain amount of time. People will have checked out down the
line at some point long before we reach them. People will die before we reach them if they're
living in the hotel and they never check out. So there's no, this idea about sort of putting
someone in the first room and shifting all the others is going to be sort of perfectly feasible.
Yeah, it's good. And just for the audience, Graham speaks about this in his book,
Philosophical Perspectives on Infinity, which is a book I got into when someone pushed forward
the thesis of causal finitism from Alexander Proust and Robert Koens and brought up Benedetti
paradoxes. And if you think Hilbert's hotel is a mess, goodness, Benedetti paradoxes are something
else. But hey, we can get to that in a second. Depending on your time, I'm very conscious of
keeping you longer than is. Okay, we're going okay so far. Edith, in another half an hour or so,
I'll start saying leaky things and you'll want to stop. Well, that just sounds like a challenge.
I'm well up for that. In a similar light, would you mind, well, another a priori argument is,
let's put forward for the column, is the successive edition argument. And would you
mind explaining what this argument is and what your favorite response is to it?
So the idea is that you can't, I mean, the way that it's said, there's this notion of a completed
infinity. And the idea is that you can't complete an infinity by successive editions. So just think
about the natural numbers. There's no biggest natural number we keep. So you move from one to
two by adding one, you move from two to three by adding one. And there's nothing at the top end.
Right. And so the thought is now consider the present, there couldn't be an infinite past
because we've just reached that we would have reached the top end of an infinity.
But that's kind of confused because the right way to think about the infinite past is to count
backwards. Right. So we've gone from minus one to zero before that was minus two, before that was
minus three, before that was minus four, and so on. There's no bottom end to an infinite
past, just as there's no top end. No matter what you pick, going back at which negative
number we pick, there's infinitely more before that. That's what's required for an infinite
regress. Yeah. That's cool. So the successive edition argument just doesn't get any traction
against the infinite past, according to me. That's good. That reminds me of some work from,
I'm going to butcher his name, I'm sorry, but his name is something like Nicholas Shackel,
or Shackle. He was the person that came up with the unsatisfiable pair diagnosis, which is a
response to causal, some of the arguments towards causal finitism, particularly in reference to
the Benedetti paradoxes. And he phrases it so well in there. He was saying that if you start
speaking about sets that don't have a first member, all of a sudden it becomes obvious
why the successive edition and things like this have an issue, because they're explicitly assuming
a first member to start to get this kicked off from the get-go. I just always found that that was
always a good way of it coming across. Where's Morrison and Alex Melpass has published lots
in this regard as well. But yeah, no, thank you for that answer. That's brilliant.
What we got next? Honestly, Derek, this is so exciting. It's like a birthday present. I can't
believe my luck. Okay, so here's an interesting one. So we're talking about explanatory value
and how naturalism tends to do a better job than theism, which and what evidence, if any,
is better explained by theism than by naturalism and why?
So in my book, The Best Argument Against God, I argue that naturalism is simpler than theism and
there's nowhere that theism does better than naturalism. There's lots of drawers. That depends
on a certain way of partitioning the data though, because if you kind of gerrymandered the data and
you pick, you know, like I go around and I collect together 100 people who believe in theism and I
say relative to this evidence, right, is there any evidence that favours theism over naturalism,
ignoring all the rest of it? And the answer is going to be yes, right? There's 100 people who
believe this view and that's it. That's the evidence, right? But that would be cheating,
right? Because what you have to do is you have to survey the whole of opinion, right? And then
the data's just a mess. There are just as many people who are not theists as there are theists
and if we're allowed to project back over the 100 billion or whatever humans that they've been,
very few of them will have been theists. That is monotheists. So provided that we're kind of
partitioning the data in the proper way, the view that I took in that book and I don't see
any reason to retreat from it is that there isn't actually any data that gets explained better
by theism, the naturalism. It's important to bear in mind that the data here when it comes to
the kind of historical stuff, I'm not counting the resurrection as a bit of data, right? There are
these texts, right, that say that there was a resurrection and what needs explaining is the
existence of the texts, right? So that's another thing that you have to bear in mind about the
way that the data is being handled here. I'm assuming that the data is stuff that both sides
agree on and they don't agree that there was a resurrection but they both agree that there are
these texts that say that there was, right? And so it's the texts that require the explanation.
That's actually such a wonderful question that you just asked even and just the way you put
that Graham is like, all right, show's over. No, but seriously, this is just, I love it, I love it.
Yeah. So I've got a couple of friends who think that moral realism would be more expected under
theism. And I guess like with the answer that you gave there, it comes down to the fact that they've
brought into a set of other propositions that make it so that theism is something that they find a
bit more palatable than naturalism. And it's like everything is just so sensitive to our web of
beliefs. It's pretty amazing when you think about just how delicate it all is.
Right. So that's right. As I said before, it seems to me that there's a very wide range of
opinion that naturalists can take about morality and values and normative stuff.
And perhaps there's quite a range that theists can take too, but there are certain kinds of theists
who very strongly go for some kind of divine command theory or sort of intrinsic to God,
kind of ultimate source of values is somehow God appears. Very true.
When I've got two more questions, Derek, what about you? Listen, I'm here for the ride. That's
all I'm here for, brother. Man, it's a hell of a ride. It's good stuff. It really is. I'm learning
a lot though. There's a lot I'm learning. Some of it's like, all right, I really need to read on
this because this is pretty intense. And I'm sure I'm going to come across it a hundred more times
with my channel because my channel is like a trigger for like so many people. Well,
actually, on that note, I found that the more and more I'm reading the philosophical literature
and trying to get my head around all of this stuff as an autodidact is just someone coming
out of it from out of nowhere. Some words from Hitchens keep bringing my head and that is the
more I learn just basically the thicker I think I am. And I'm just wondering like, does that stop
at all Graham or does that just keep going with just across the board? So it never stops, right?
I mean, this is something that I've talked about in various places. One person knows next to nothing
compared to what we know collectively, you know, go and stand in a library in the nonfiction section
and look around the shelves. I mean, I guess this would have worked better 20 years ago than it does
now. Well, sort of, you know, go to go to Wikipedia, right? I mean, it is pretty accurate.
And think about all the stuff that's in there that you just don't know anything about that
somebody knows about, right? So each of us knows next to nothing compared to what we know collectively.
But also collectively, we don't know that much, right? I mean, it seems like a lot from, you know,
because I know so little compared to everybody. So relative to what I know, it seems like
collectively, we know a lot. But there's lots and lots of stuff that we just don't know.
Really dwarfs what we do know. When I was a kid, Dr. So you just come up against this, right?
It's impossible. It's impossible to be well informed about very much at all.
When I was a kid, I used to walk by ant farms and like my friend would have the little or not
ant farms, but little ant hills and then my friend had an ant farm. And I always put myself in that
perspective to go like, are we just like ants kind of in a bigger sense in a whole different farm?
And, you know, I think who wasn't one of the well known like popular scientists?
He made this point too that humans are kind of like ants in an ant farm. Would you think that
that's an analogy that might make sense to the universe around us? And we're over here trying
to like debate each other and argue over what makes the most sense of of all existence. Like,
why are we here? What's the meaning? All these things which may never have an answer may not
may not even have an answer, which is why we say it just is.
So one of the big questions is whether we're special, right? And we don't know the answer
to that. We don't know whether this I mean, the odds increase increasingly, we've been finding
earth like planets. So planets in the kind of habitable zone with oceans. But I don't think
that we've yet found any real evidence of life elsewhere. So we just don't know at this stage.
We also don't know if even if life turns out to be common, whether creatures like us are common,
and whether they do any better than we do. As in, you know, we may well wipe ourselves out in the
next few hundred years, years or reasons, whether that's kind of as good as it gets, in which case,
we're not quite like the ants, because we're kind of close to the top of the tree. But maybe we're
not. We just have no idea at this stage, I think. What if we what if we went to one of these planets,
and we were literally able to speciation, we could actually cross species, like the timing was just
right. Holy crap, I can actually breathe. So that that seems unlikely. That's unlikely to me.
Would you think there's a God then? That's because the I mean, assuming that that biological
evolution takes a fairly similar track and it's kind of genetic, that's that that would be miraculous.
That's why I said that. Yeah, we're having fun. Stephen, get your questions,
brother. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Just just a quick comment, actually, reminding me of what was being
being said there. I remember I was listening to Daniel Dennett when he was speaking about
Craig and Craig saying about things being absurd. And Dennett used the example of aliens,
potential aliens. He said, look, some things are going to give you an absurd result in any case.
So let us suppose for a moment that we are the only the only conscious beings in the universe.
That's absurd. There's so many planets and there's just so many galaxies, potentially
so many universes. That's absolutely absolutely absurd. But if you flip that on its head and you
go, Hey, just turns out that it's everywhere. That's also absurd. So, you know, it just might
be like whatever the case is, it's going to be something that's hard to swallow.
Yeah. And who knows if and when we'll find out. That's true. Hey, they're already here. They're
already here. They don't you know that they came down 2000 years ago and resurrected a guy.
Okay, fine tuning. So it is argued by some theorists that the universe is fine tuned.
And I know that you've already touched upon this. But the basic argument is that the occurrence of
life in the universe is extremely sensitive to the values of certain fundamental physical constants.
And that since the observed values are improbable, theism offers a better explanation than
naturalism in this regard. I was wondering what your thoughts are.
Okay, so it's not just life, right? The probability of it being stars, for example,
is, I mean, or almost anything, right? Well, the way the story is usually told,
right? If you don't have the constant set in the sort of Goldilocks range, if you don't have them
just right, either the universe kind of collapses in on itself in a fraction of a second.
Right. And so you, so you see nothing of what we see in the universe, or it blows apart so rapidly
that basically you've got empty space and the occasional flip of a particle of some sort.
And either way, right, it's not just life. It's, I mean, because it's, it's kind of
interesting that we fix on life. But there wouldn't be stars, for example. And maybe
there's a God that just really loves stars and didn't care at all about life. It was just a
kind of consequence of there being stars. Yeah. Well, I like that idea of, you know, how some
people will go, Listen, I don't want kids and I don't want pets. I just want a nice garden.
It would be like the equivalent of that for God. It's just, I just want it to look pretty. Okay.
Look at that argument from Beauty right there. But I guess one reason why one wouldn't want to put
life would want to use life in that argument is that they can then replace that with stars,
and they can replace that with, I don't know, whatever else they want to put in, and then
they can go. It can be anything. Yeah. And then they've got so many more arguments. So, so, so the
question, one question is going to be whether the basic premise here is true, that is, is the
universe fine-tuned for whatever do you only get a universe say, say, do you only get a universe
with stars if the constants are just right? That seems to be the case at the moment. There seems
to be pretty broad agreement amongst physicists about that. So it's not, I wouldn't say it was
certain, but it seems kind of likely that one of the difficulties here is the way that physicists
can change quite, quite dramatically. We don't yet have a way of putting together quantum mechanics
and general relativity. When we get the physical theory of everything, some sort of quantum gravity,
maybe all of the fine-tuning will disappear. Maybe all the constants will be,
somehow or other, their values or just be fixed by the theory instead of having to write them
in by hand the way that we do at the moment. Yeah. So, so that's one, so one possibility here is
future physics of just remove this issue. Suppose that doesn't happen, then how can we explain this
from a naturalistic point of view? Well, what I, so I like to argue it this way.
Supposing that there is this fine-tuning, there are two possibilities here. Either
it's the values of the constants have always been fixed. So there's an infinite regress and
they've always been the way they are, or there was a first moment and in the first moment the
values were already fixed. In that case, you've got kind of two options. You can either just say
there's no explanation or you can say it's necessary that they take the values they do,
and theists and naturals can both take that position because theists can still also ask,
when were the values fixed? I mean, got that fixed meaning, got it decided that's what the
values were going to be. Was there a prior state we got hadn't and then suddenly swapped to having
decided or was it always the case that God was going to make an inverse with his fine-tuning
values. So that's one possibility is that it's there at the beginning and naturalism and theism
are a draw on that. We can either say that it's necessary or it's contingent, but we have an
explanation. The alternative is that there was this transition that went from not fixed to fixed
at some later point. How could that happen? How could there be a transition from not fixed to
fixed? It looks as though that's just going to be chance, right? It doesn't matter what the numbers
are, unlikely stuff happens, right? And so there's your explanation. So it seems to me and theists
can say that too. God just made the world and said, let it happen. Maybe he made lots and lots of
universes and said, let them all happen, right? And then something turned out, whatever. But if
it's, if that's what happened, there was this kind of indeterministic transition, then again,
we've got an explanation. So it seems to me that naturalism and theism have the same resources
and can both explain it in the same kind of way. That's what I mean. Brilliant. My next
question, I'm just going to warn you fairly, Graham, that this question is probably going to
be the hardest question you've ever had to answer. I'm just warning you, okay? Here we go.
Why are you not convinced of Andrew Locke's modus tolin's argument for the club?
So I've had a discussion with Andrew about this. That was, in some ways, it was kind of difficult.
And then I had a discussion, a kind of post review with Alex Melkis, I think.
Yeah. From memory.
There's lots of things I could say. But the, I mean, I'll just say the kind of generic thing
about arguments, right? And to be convincing an argument where you've got a set of premises
and a conclusion, it's got to be that you accept all of the premises. And Andrew and I just don't
see eye to eye on the premises. So at that point, if he wants to declare kind of victory,
then I'll just revert to a much simpler argument, like God doesn't exist, so God doesn't exist.
I win and just go home, right? It's easy to make kind of valid arguments with
premises that your opponents don't accept. The value of the argument,
once it turns out that the people that you're arguing with don't accept your premises,
the value of the argument to you is zero at that point, according to me.
Yeah. So that would be, that's the kind of response that I'm getting right.
Now, brilliant. I remember when I was watching it, I, well, I spilled coffee on the keyboard,
because after a bit of back and forth, you went, right, I'm just going to say that God
doesn't exist and go home. Okay, well played. But no, thank you. That's all my questions, Derek.
Yeah, I just had two more. Did you ever watch that video by Sean Carroll? I'm sure you've
heard his debate with William Lynn Craig, but he has one called God is not a good theory.
Did you ever watch one of those? He's sitting in the classroom.
I haven't, I haven't watched it, but I've, I've heard about his view. Somehow or other,
I picked it up through stuff on the internet. What do you think about some of their works?
Like there's, there's Anne, Lawrence Krauss, et cetera, but I know they're not all the same.
So in a way, I agree with them, right? The thesis of the best argument against God is
really that God isn't the best theory. Now, I guess it's one question, whether it's the best
theory, it's another, whether it's not a good theory, right? And I'm, I'm happy to say it's
not the best theory. Naturalism is a better theory. But there are many worse worldviews,
I think, than the better, theistic worldviews. So I'm in, and if they're kind of, so, so here,
I'm not sure exactly what Krauss and Carroll and people like that are saying, but if they're saying
that there's kind of nothing good to be said for the, that the, that theistic worldviews,
even the best of them are the worst worldviews that they could be, I'm going to disagree with that,
right? People who believe that there are kind of multi-dimensional wizards that have taken
out of the government, you know, so, right? Theistic worldviews can be much better than that.
Yeah, I don't think that's what their point is, but yeah, I get what you're saying. And I think
it was kind of, he used good, but I think it was your point of the best. I think that's what he meant
is theism is not the best, but I think that's exactly what he meant. And any naturalist has
gotten inside that. Right. I think he did it for title, probably, grabbing as it's not a good,
oh, what? Good. God is good. What do you mean? Like, so probably people clicking that way. And my
other, my other question, other than Sean Carroll, literally left my brain and I swear I had it and
it disappeared. Sean Carroll was one of them. Yeah, I had one more, but it was more of a fun
question. Oh, prediction. So I know, you know, we're naturalists, so we don't believe in the divine,
but we do look at statistics and we look at the way that many things are going and you're looking
at data points and you kind of wonder, I asked myself, where are we going in the next century?
Where do you think we're heading in terms of this question of theism, atheism? Do you think that the
dominant position within the next century or two may end up actually being
atheism or lack theism or something of that in the world? Okay. So I talk about this in the last
chapter of atheism, the basics. And there I say, I'm not going to make a prediction 100 years ahead.
I won't even make one five years ahead. Oh, wow. So can you make a guess? So the data about religion
is a bit all over the place. So in the West, it's been declining pretty steadily for a century,
even in the United States, which remains proportionately more religious than countries like the UK
and Australia. But it's still, there's a decline. But in other parts of the world, religions, I mean,
religions like Islam and Christianity have been growing. And there's a certain amount of research
that suggests that it's something like gross domestic product, wealth or something like that,
that's tied to the kind of decline of religion. And it's hard to project that forwards. I mean,
things, if anything, got worse since I wrote atheism, the basics, it's kind of less clear
that we're heading into a period of prosperity, that sort of broadening prosperity that would
make it more likely that we're going to see decline in religiosity. So I'm not prepared to make any
beds. Well, thank you so much for answering my question. Stephen, thank you for joining me, man.
Rationality Rules YouTube channel, Graham Oppie's books, gotta get them. Anything you want to add?
Well, for me, it's just thanks for having me on. I really appreciate it. Thanks for the opportunity.
I can't believe you didn't tell Graham that I was going to be here. I feel like I've just jumped in,
but apart from that, we're good. No, I think Graham appreciated it. He didn't have to deal with a
completely low IQ conversation with me. He's been lots of fun. Thanks.
Seriously, thank you. Yeah, I want to have you back, of course. Maybe we can have you debate.
The one thing I asked you in a super chat recently on a different episode was your
conversation with Bernardo Castro, who's an idealist, and he's like a super sophisticated guy.
You said he's depending on quantum mechanics to work a certain way or something, and it's
not accepted in science yet that that's the case or something. I can't remember.
So that's roughly right. The interpretation of quantum mechanics is very controversial,
and this is added dimension of complexity because we don't quite know what the success
and theory that puts quantum mechanics in general relative together will look like.
Relying on a particular way of interpreting quantum mechanics in order to build your
philosophical view is slightly dangerous. It might turn out to be well justified,
but it's dangerous. There's lots of other things to say. I think about idealism. I think that
idealism is really counterintuitive and very hard to defend, and I'm not entirely clear that it
isn't self-defeating. The only kind of idealism that you could really motivate is solipsism,
and that's just not a position that anyone should adopt.
I don't know if we didn't cover almost all of the fun topics in this one episode.
I hope people watching this enjoyed. Let us know what you think down in the comment section.
Let us know what you think of Steven. I had a blast. His questions were great. Dr. Appi,
seriously, you're always fun and can't wait to one day know half the things you do philosophically.
Okay, so thanks for having me on. I guess we can wind it up at this point.
Yep, I seriously appreciate it, and everybody never forget we are Midsfishing.
