approach.
Professor Goodacre, Francis Hill Professor, Francis Hill Fox Professor of Religious Studies
at Duke University.
I am so trying to memorize this.
And I do this, by the way, with every person that I have on.
Like when it was Ian Mills, I said, he's the New Testament review podcast or podcast review.
I get it backwards.
Well, do you know, I have the advantage when I do conversations on my podcast that I actually
quite often say, I'm going to add in the other stuff afterwards.
And then when I'm sitting calmly at my desk, I can then go, oh, they are the such and such
because I can read it off the thing.
So kudos to you for actually doing it in live, as it were.
Well, thank you.
I tried to.
And then I, of course, want to read the materials before I actually go to interview.
So I want to talk about the far hypothesis a little.
This is your, like, this is what you're so known for, right?
And it's at odds with many Q people, Q people.
But the question I ask, and this is kind of a basic thing, is Mark comes first.
Can you address the issue with Mark and priority number one, and then maybe take us through
your mind of dating when we date them and why?
And I'm talking the synoptics, maybe throw John in the mix.
I won't take too long.
But why does Mark come first?
Well, Mark, I would actually date into the 70s.
I think he's, I think he's, he's writing not long after the fall of Jerusalem.
There's a great moment in, in Mark 15, where people say to Jesus, you know, this is the
guy who said that, actually, let me, let me start that again.
That's this.
Hopefully you can edit that out.
Three, two, one.
Mark, I think, is definitely the first gospel.
The likelihood is that Mark is written in the 70s, not long after the fall of Jerusalem.
Notice how obsessed Mark is with the temple.
He keeps talking about the temple.
Now, we kind of think, oh, that's kind of natural that he would be talking about the
temple all the time.
Why?
Why is it natural?
Read Paul's epistles.
How often does he talk about the Jerusalem temple?
And he actually physically himself must have gone there, right?
We, I mean, we, we know that Paul went to Jerusalem.
He talked about going to Jerusalem.
How often does he mention being in the temple?
It's not part of his, it's not part of the way that he thinks.
So, I mean, and then he goes to Mark's gospel and all the way through, he's talking about
the temple.
We have this, you know, we talk about the cleansing of the temple, that story about Jesus
going into the temple and turning over the tables.
Why?
I mean, I think that, I think there's probably some history there, right?
I think that this probably happened, but that's not the question.
The question is, why does Mark tell you that story?
There's plenty of other things that he could, you know, talk about.
You constantly have this thing.
And then Mark 13 focused big time on the temple, this big apocalyptic drama.
Mark, I think, is written in the aftermath of the fall of Jerusalem, and it's actually
trying to bring the Jesus story into the present, Mark's present in the 70s and actually explain
how it is that they've got to this kind of situation.
But what becomes interesting about Matthew and Luke is that they pick up that obsession
with the temple as well.
And if anything, they go even further.
And I mean, particularly when you look at the way that Luke writes up Mark 13, when
Luke writes it up in Luke 21, he's even more specific about details of the destruction
of Jerusalem.
And really that's one of the ways that you deal with prophecy in the ancient world.
It's about when prophecy is successful.
And I can explain that with an analogy.
I saw a really terrible documentary on Channel 5 UK once, really terrible documentary.
And it was called The Man Who Painted 9-11, and it was all about a guy that does prophetic
painting.
And one of his paintings, I think the 1990s or something, was of a plane hitting the Twin
Towers.
People go, wow, look at that, this guy prophesied it.
Now, the reason why that guy was on that documentary is because 9-11 happened.
If 9-11 hadn't happened, that guy would not be on the documentary with that picture of
the Twin Towers, right?
So whether or not Jesus predicted the fall of the temple.
The point is that it's in the text because the authors of those texts want to say, look,
Jesus prophesied it.
And it came true.
That's the function of that prophecy.
And what happens a lot with New Testament scholars is that they get caught up in this
idea of, well, could Jesus really prophesy or not?
That's not the question.
The question is, what's the function of the prophecy in the text?
And what it's doing is for people who are hearing Matthew's Gospel, let's say, in Syria
somewhere, and they go, oh my goodness, did Jesus prophesy that?
People are hearing Luke's Gospel in Corinth, and they're going, oh, it turns out that Jesus
prophesied that.
Did you, ah, wow, you know, so it's a legitimizing role.
So Mark, I think, because of the fall of Jerusalem and other things as well, he writes this Gospel,
which is kind of triggered by the events of 66 to 70.
And this is such a profoundly traumatic event for Jews in this period that that's what it
kind of pushes us, what it kind of leads to.
And Matthew, I think, sees the problem with lots of what's in Mark's Gospel, but he also
loves it.
He also thinks very highly of it.
So what you get is you get Matthew attempting to fix Mark.
He's trying to correct it, kind of smooth some of its rougher edges, re-Judaise Jesus
a bit, because Mark's Jesus has got this kind of Gentile leaning.
And Luke, I think, sees what Matthew's done and thinks, I could do that, because Luke's
known Mark's Gospel, I think, for more years.
I think he's got Mark practically by heart.
I think he knows Mark almost by heart.
Then he sees Matthew's Gospel, I say sees, they actually hear it for the first time.
He goes somewhere.
He's traveling somewhere.
And he hears someone read Matthew's Gospel, because I want a copy of that.
So he gets a copy of it.
He sees instantly what Matthew's done.
Fixed Mark.
This guy's tried to fix Mark, light bulb goes on, and he thinks, I could fix Mark, too.
And I can do it better than Matthew, not just because he's got his own stories and someone
to contribute, but also because he can use some of this new stuff, because he loves the
new stuff.
You know, I mean, Luke is both an interpreter and a critic of Matthew, I think.
So he's not a hater of it, but he definitely is wanting to, he knows he can do better.
Right.
It's what a friend of mine, Chris Keith, talks about his competitive textuality.
He actually thinks that he can improve on Matthew's Gospel, I think.
And one of the things that I find baffling about the Q position, even still to this day,
and some of my best friends are Q scholars, so, you know, I don't want to say this in
any way that's kind of mocking or facetious, but I do have to say that one of the reasons
that I've always found the Q hypothesis so difficult to accept is that if you look in
antiquity, it is difficult to find two books more similar to one another than Matthew's
Gospel and Luke's Gospel, right?
They both work with Mark's Gospel, have Mark's Gospel as a kind of backbone to it.
They both had birth narratives.
They both had resurrection narratives.
They both had a genealogy.
They both put a ton more teaching material in, structuring some of it in exactly the
same way.
And then we say, Luke can't possibly even know Matthew because of, and then likes some
really spurious reasons that come up.
And I say, these are two of the most similar books you can find.
How could it be that they're independent of one another?
That's just a prima facie, kind of a first impression thing.
Obviously, there's detailed textual reasons for it as well, like the fact that Luke keeps
copying things that show Matthew and fingerprints, right?
Matthew's got very particular terms of phrase, and Luke keeps copying them in.
You know, I mean, that's one of the reasons that Luke knew Matthew and not Matthew knew
Luke.
Matthew says stuff like, they will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, right?
Keep saying that.
And then Luke says it one time, right?
Or Matthew will say, when Jesus had finished saying these things and hearing of the people,
blah, blah, blah.
He says that five times.
It's a key structuring device in the whole of Matthew.
Luke has it once in Luke seven, verse one, he just, you know, he just, oh, so suddenly
we've got, and that's not, you know, he's supposed to be Jesus's sayings, right?
I was supposed to be kind of, have these kind of narrative segues that, you know, I mean,
so I, I've always, I mean, I always feel kind of bad about it because there are so many
really brilliant scholars who have argued for you and who accept you.
So I actually do have to frequently say to myself, Mark, are you being fair to them here?
You know, and, and I suppose one thing that I would actually want to want to say as well
is that I always try as far as possible to think like a Q scholar in order that I can
have reputable arguments against them.
One thing I think one should always try and do is try and think of good arguments for
your opponent's position in order that you can actually make sure that you're arguing
against them fairly.
Stillman.
Huh?
It's a stillman argument.
Right, right.
Like a legit.
That's right.
Like a really good exercise of stillman.
Yeah, right, right.
The thing is, one of the things I most hate in scholarship is reading reviews that say
this person has misunderstood me, this person has misrepresented me just because it's kind
of tedious.
I want, I want to have like intellectual exchange, not you have misunderstood me, right?
So one of the ways I, so one of the things I try and do, I try as far as possible to
ward off people saying you have misrepresented me, you, I mean, you still get that.
You're always going to get that.
And you know, maybe I do misunderstand, but I'm sure I do, you know, misreader, misunderstand
people.
But you want to try and ward off that as much as, as much as possible.
And you know, I mean, the, I probably should say as well, I've learned more from Q scholars
than I have from most other colleagues in, you know, in New Testament.
And you know, I mentioned, I mentioned just one, John Kloppenborg from Toronto, absolutely
outstanding scholar.
I've learned far more from him than I have from most other scholars.
And in fact...
Have you debated him?
We, do you know, very early in my, very early in my career, the year 2000, before I published
the case against Q, we did have a session at the Society of Biblical Literature where
we were on the same panel.
But no, I haven't actually, I haven't actually debated the issue with John.
And we both, I suppose we also both are doing, I mean, we still keep returning.
The synoptic problem is something you keep returning to, you can't have a quite getaway
from it.
Right.
But we are doing that.
We're both doing other things now, I suppose.
Yeah.
I would like to set that up.
I wouldn't be against it.
I would love it because he's the leading guy on that specifically.
So when do you date Matthew and Luke?
I, for simplicity's sake, because, you know, we don't know, but for simplicity's sake,
I go Mark 70s, Matthew 80s, Luke, do you know what?
I used to say Luke 90s, but I've recently become convinced by Steve Mason's argument
that Luke knows Josephus.
I had, I didn't the past, I'd always put, I think Luke actually, we're going to have
to put him into the early second century.
Wow.
I think it's Steve Mason, the book is called Josephus and the New Testament.
Just a fantastic book.
And he makes a cautious argument that Luke and acts both show knowledge of Josephus's
antiquities, which is written in the 90s.
Pretty convincing.
It's pretty convincing.
The thing which ultimately really, really captured it for me is the way that Luke talks
about this character, the Egyptian, which Mason argues must come from the antiquities,
that people were not going around in, you know, in the first century talking about the
Egyptian because it wouldn't make any sense, right?
It's a very specific, it has a very specific context in Josephus, but Mason has a great
line that he said, I'm pretty sure that whatever his real name was, you know, that his parents
didn't christen him, the Egyptian, you know, this guy had a name, right?
But now I think Luke knows Josephus, but I also think Ignatius knows Luke.
Ignatius is difficult to date, but his letter to the Smyrnians, it has a couple of quotations
from Luke's gospel that are so precise, it has to cut, I could mount an argument for
that.
I've thought about trying to write that up.
Now that exercises an influence, therefore, on the other side, because on the assumption
that Ignatius is writing in the early to middle of the second century, Luke can't be any
later than the middle of the second century.
And then we start hitting, when we get to Irenaeus in the 170s, Irenaeus certainly knows
Luke, safest, therefore, to get Luke around, Luke must be, I think it's fairly recently
come into contact with Josephus' antiquities and Matthew's gospel as well.
So we can put, if we're putting Mark in the 70s, wouldn't rule out Mark being later as
well, could be as late as 80s or 90s, but if we're putting Mark in the 70s, we have
Matthew subsequent 80s, 90s, we've got Luke in the early second century.
John then also, I think, has to be early second century for that reason, because I'm arguing
in a forthcoming book that John knows Matthew, Mark and Luke.
I can't wait to get that one.
It's typical of me, unfortunately, I mean, everyone's going, oh, great, all right, good
acre, everybody knows everybody, but it is one of the things that I do feel strongly
is that I don't think these authors did work in a vacuum, and I think one of the things
that has happened in New Testament scholarship, I think that the idea of people being independent
to one another is very, very useful, because it means that, so if Matthew's independent
of Luke, and if John is independent of all three, and if Thomas is independent of all
four, then what happens is you've got all of these independent witnesses to the early
Jesus tradition, and that's historically and theologically for lots of people, a very
satisfying state of affairs, because then you just have this one big master narrative,
or you begin telling the story with John the Baptist.
I mean, if, I think the reason why everybody begins telling the story with John the Baptist
is because that's how Mark started it, and Mark's the first gospel and became influential,
so Matthew, all right, Matthew has some birth narratives at the beginning, but he starts
with John the Baptist as soon as the birth narratives are done.
Luke actually thinks, oh gosh, no, I want to start with John the Baptist, but I like these
birth narratives, okay, we'll start with John the Baptist's dad, so he starts with John
the Baptist's dad, Zechariah, at the beginning of Luke's gospel.
And then you get to John's gospel, lots of people think it's independent of the synoptics,
but where does he start?
John the Baptist, who told them that you start with John the Baptist?
What's that master narrative so pervasive in the first century?
I mean, I don't think it was, I think what's happened is Mark tells the story in a particular
way, he's followed by Matthew, he's followed by Luke, he's followed by John, and it becomes
a pervasive way of telling the story because they were familiar with one another's works,
not because this is a grand overarching early Christian master narrative, there are plenty
of other ways you could tell this story.
Paul never mentions John the Baptist in his excellent letters, right?
Right.
Does Paul start the story with John the Baptist?
I don't think so.
I don't think so.
I don't think so.
I think I know where he starts, he starts with Jesus was of the seed of David, that's
where he starts it, Romans 1, 3, that's how he starts.
Can I ask one more, this is such, I love this stuff, you've heard of full preterism, I'm
sure you've heard of it.
I may not know too much, but they believe that all prophecy was fulfilled.
They tie everything to the temple, so you brought up Mark, you're talking about Mark
in priority and it just, it begs me to ask as an ex-full preterist, someone who thought
everything as a fundamentalist all tied together, it's all the same thing, they argue all of
Paul's like soon apocalypse stuff actually is temple, so they go, oh, oh, oh, it's the
temple, and Mark capitalizes on this by using this, what I think is apocalyptic stuff, Paul
seems to be the early movement had, and he does make significance of the temple, but
as an expert in this, if I could ask, there are people who, they're partial preterists,
they say, well yeah, there's a temple ex-event too, if you're arguing that it's written
after, there is an ex-event too, writing whether or not there was a real prediction
stuff, he's writing it after the fact, I mean it'd be wonderful if someone wrote it
before and then we are able to actually prove that this was a prophecy, it'd be awesome,
but the point I'm making is, is everything, do you think the complete parosia, if you
will, the final, second coming, all of that, does that fit, and do you think the synoptic
apocalypse actually with the destruction of Jerusalem actually fulfills this whole revelation
of Jesus' resurrection, the final resurrection, the coming of the Lord, all of that, do you
think that even fits that, you have to redefine a lot of terms, I think.
Well we know that new religious movements regularly battle with predictions and unfulfilled
predictions, you know, I mean that's just a fact, and then you go back and you reinterpret,
you know, and what's fascinating about all four of the canonical gospels, and a lot of
non-canonical ones too, is you can see them in the act of attempting to interpret and
reinterpret prophecy, and that's the problem about writing stuff down, because, you know,
if you just keep it oral, you just say, oh maybe we just kind of misremembered it, or
maybe, you know, we should put this episode on, but as soon as you've written down, some
of those standing here will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God come with
power like Mark has in 9-1, once that's written down, then you are compelled to find a way
of reinterpreting that, right? And I mean, one of the most fascinating attempts to reinterpret
this is in John 21, where you've got this situation where the entire narrative presupposes
that all the disciples are dead, that's why John's gospel can't possibly be at least,
because supposing that they're all dead.
And this works into your thesis that John knows the other.
Absolutely, because John is trying to address this awful problem of the idea that the disciples,
at least, you know, at least maybe one would still be alive by the end, and then they've
all gone, and you get this amazing story where you get this attempt to kind of re... Well,
what Jesus actually said was this, not this, you know, and I say you get this sort of,
you know, and this what happens, that's the problem with literary works, because as soon
as you have a literary... As soon as you commit something to writing, you're then binding the
hands of somebody in the future who is going, oh, shoot, it actually didn't happen that way.
Do you know what I mean? So I think that's the issue that you get, because it must have been
dramatic and traumatic, and in a way, for a lot of the members of the Jesus movement,
kind of exhilarating when they thought, oh my goodness, you know, the temple has been destroyed.
Didn't we hear something about Jesus predicting? You know, I mean, and you... And they start
filtering the events through their own tradition, and you can just see, I think, in Mark's Gospel,
the excitement almost. I mean, it's an awful word to use, because it's such a profoundly
traumatic event, and that trauma is there as well in Mark, but it's almost the excitement of, yeah,
this thing we've just witnessed, that's what Jesus was talking about, and, you know, the
function of prophecy, I think, in all these texts, it's basically, it has a literary function,
and the literary function is, Jesus was right. Jesus was who he said he was. That's why we're
giving you this prophecy, which we have seen fulfilled. It only has that impact. If the reader
is thinking, wow, this has happened. Right. The question, I guess, then is just, I guess, on the
Mark thing, because Luke picks up this, Matthew picks this up, John doesn't even, he doesn't
really care about it anymore, in terms of the temple. He does, but he doesn't. He says,
turn down a stupor, rebuild it in three days, talk about his body. Yeah, that's right. And move it
to the beginning of the Gospel as well, so that you, you know, that gives you a little bit more
latitude, then, to do, in the restructuring of Mark, which John does, you can then have Lazarus
come in in 11 and 12. Where would the temple come in? That would have been hard to have done.
That's a good point. So you do it at the beginning, and actually, that's another
Mark and type move to make anyway. You basically do something right from the beginning of the Gospel
that tells you that this guy is going to end up on a cross and that Jesus knew that he was.
You know, so, so you, I think John is doing a Mark and type thing by putting the temple incident
at the beginning, even though in Mark's Gospel, it's at the end. So just wrapping this up here,
like three to five minutes here. This is the final question in that vein.
Full Preterus say the temple's destruction literally completes everything that was promised.
But John's trying to fix problems. Why is John trying to fix problems? If the temple's destruction
is what wraps up the whole story, the resurrection of the dead, like this, this final thesis,
what they do is they make it, instead of it being universal, cosmic. It's not cosmic. That's just
apocalyptic language. It's just, you know, describing a small temple event, which is big
enough. It's climatic. It's a big deal. So they make the resurrection that they make the final
judgment that they make all of these things the temple. And then they literally run to places
like Paul. They start with this gospel synoptic apocalypse. Then they've run into Paul. Paul
seems to expect something's going to come. Look, there's wrath is coming on the Jews,
temple, or they'll run to Revelation, go and measure the temple. The temple's still standing.
So they date all of these books pre 70 because they're fundamentalists. And they say it's all
talking about what's about to happen in 70, 80. Everything's complete. What's the problem with that?
You got five minutes to tell me that's not a horrible. Well, part of the problem with it is
that it's very difficult to make sense of the obsession with the temple if, if nothing has
happened yet. Right. I mean, there was this character, John 80 Robinson, J 80 Robinson,
who argued that you should date all of the gospels, the canonical gospels before 70,
because they're not specific enough about the destruction of the temple.
That's just, that is just isn't how these things work, you know, the whole, the whole point,
you know, I mean, I'll draw a comparison here with Josephus. The reason why Josephus tells you
stories about people prophesying the destruction of the temple because he has it as well.
The reason why Josephus has that is because the destruction has happened. You don't have
just miscellaneous prophecies in a literary text, in the hope that maybe one or two of
them will come true. No, you do it, you write them into the text after the things happen. So
in Josephus's Jewish war, there's this character is actually called Jesus.
It's not Jesus of Nazareth, but Jesus, Ben and Arnos. And Josephus depicts him as a bit of a madman,
bit of a crazy guy who keeps prophesying woe over Jerusalem. And this guy eventually falls
to his death, right? But the fascinating thing about this particular Jesus is Josephus tells you
the story about a crazy guy because the crazy guy turned out to be right, right? I have no idea
about that historical Jesus. I don't know whether that historical Jesus, Ben and Arnos, actually
prophesied the destruction of the temple. Maybe he did, maybe he didn't. I don't know,
maybe someone made him up. Who knows? The important thing is the literary function of that prophecy
in Josephus's text. The literary function is, oh my goodness, people should have been listening
to these people. It's like just before you get the story of the temple falling in Josephus,
people start hearing angels flying around in the temple saying that the house is going to be
forsaken. This house is going to be desolate, right? And actually one of the interesting things
is the same motif comes in Matthew and Luke. Jesus says, behold, the house will be desolate,
right? In a passage where some people put in Q because it's almost verbatim in Matthew and Luke
and you're thinking, what? You know, I mean, no, this is post-70. You know, some Q scholars have
seen that, by the way. And they say, oh gosh, Q must be post-70 because Q seems to know about the
fall of Jerusalem. Easier to say. Matthew has written that up and Luke's copied it from there.
But I think the most obvious response is, well, you would never say that Josephus is writing
before 70. That would be an absurd thing, of course, because he's writing a history. But he's
writing a history in which people do prophecies very similar to the Gospels. You know, you have
Jesus prophesize something that the reader knows has happened. So I think that's one of the major
things. I think I would also want to say that when you look at John's Gospel, that you have moved, I
think, a bit theologically. You know, in John's Gospel, what's happening is John is already
beginning to distance himself from the very apocalyptic Jesus of Matthew, Mark and Luke,
to some extent Luke, especially Matthew and Mark. And what John is doing is he really wants to replace
the idea of the Kingdom of God with the idea of eternal life. So what he does is he introduces the
term Kingdom of God in John 3 in the conversation with Nicodemus. You get it three times and then
it's gone. And then he never goes back to Kingdom of God again. This is what John often does. He
does the same thing with Son of Man. He introduced the term, but then supersedes it with Son of God.
So John takes a familiar concept from the synoptics, but then he develops it theologically.
And what he really wants to stress. So in chapter 3, you begin with Kingdom of God,
then it becomes all about eternal life. And then after John 3.16, one of the most famous
verses in the New Testament, for God so loved the world, you have that line in there, eternal life,
then eternal life all the way through the Gospel. Wow. You know, so John is doing something, I think,
Christological and theological with this. He's moving away from the apocalypticism of the
Gospels. It still makes its present felt sometimes, but essentially he's doing something a bit
fresh and it is more of a realized eschatology. It's true. So many more questions. Thank you so
much, Dr. Giddaker. Ladies and gentlemen, go get the books. I mean, this is amazing and I can't
wait to see what you actually produce with this John idea. And like, just so much, let's do this
again. Sure. I'd enjoy that. Thank you.
