Dr. Richard Carrier, I have another patron member named Nick, who has a question for
Richard Carrier. He has a great chapter, The Spiritual Body of Christ, in the book The
Empty Tomb. However, that chapter, it seems to me, makes sense only if Jesus was historical.
As he writes, if the Corinthians believed that Jesus' physical body was still in the
tomb, can you please explain or ask him to explain if and how that chapter makes sense
if the Jesus myth theory is true? Thank you.
Yeah, that's a great question. I actually, in that chapter, he's talking about this is
a book called The Empty Tomb that was edited by Jeff Lauder and Robert Price. It has a
lot of great chapters in it. It has three chapters by me. One is The Spiritual Body of
Christ and The Legend of the Empty Tomb. And the other is The Theft. I have a chapter
on the Theft theory and I have a chapter on the missing body, the misplaced body theory.
Now all these chapters, people often say like, but those chapters contradict each other.
And it's like, yeah, I'm not saying any one of these is necessarily true. I'm just saying
that we can show any one of them is true, right? Like they all have plausible case made
for them. So therefore, you can't argue for their genuine resurrection of Jesus when there's
all these other ways the evidence could have come about. And so what I do is like, here's
the best case for the theft scenario, and it fits all the evidence and fits it better
than the supernatural hypothesis. And you go, well, suppose you don't believe in the
theft scenario, what if the body was misplaced? Well, here's all the evidence that would support
that. And I show that that's also consistent with the evidence. And then I had the other
much, much longer chapter, which is the one at the time that I thought was more the more
probable of them, which is the idea that well, there wasn't even an empty tomb. They came
to believe Jesus was risen from the dead by revelation only. And this is clear and Paul
like these the only evidence that Jesus is risen from the dead that he cites other than
scripture tells us he did is the visions that we he appeared, right? So they have these
I saw Christ too, and he appeared in me and told me all this. So I think that fits the
evidence best. And so the question is, how could how could they have been convinced that
Jesus had risen from the dead by revelation when there would still be a body around, right?
Now there's actually multiple responses to that argument. And among them, the fact that
there wouldn't have been at that time any way to tell the difference between the genuine
body of Jesus or not. So they could if even if someone could point to a body in a grave,
they would just say, Oh, that's just you're just conning us. That's just some other body
or you're trying to pull a trick. So it'd be easy to deny that evidence. It wouldn't
have any effect on their mission. But there's another way to explain it, which looks like
the way that that was being argued at the time, which was, well, that body doesn't matter.
That's that's that's the garbage shell that he just discarded. He rose in a new supernatural
body, a superior body jumped from one body to the other. And that was therefore demonstrated
that so the same will happen to us, right? It's the idea that we're going to throw away
these garbage bodies, but we're going to get new better bodies, trust it, it's going to
be great. And in that chapter, I show that this is not a novel idea. There are other
Jewish sects that were selling pretty much the same concept that the body of flesh is
garbage. So we got to get rid of it. It wouldn't be, it would be contrary to the mission of
the afterlife belief to have to be risen in this this crappy, you know, sinful body
or whatever. But if you can jump from that, leave the old one behind and jump into a new
superior body, well, that explains everything. So there were some Jews who actually were
making this argument already. So this is this is not a novel concept. So the question is
in that chapter, I do have one line where I mentioned this theory could also be made
compatible with a non existent Jesus. And because at the time I was aware of Doherty's
theory, but I was not yet convinced of it. So in that chapter, I argue from the assumption
of historicity. So that whole chapter was written based on the assumption that there
was a historical Jesus. And therefore, how could all of this has happened? And that's
what I argue in the chapter. Now, years later, you know, in 2008, so that was 2005, right?
So in 2008, that's when my, when my fans basically got a research grant together for me to do
a postdoc study on historicity. And it was only after I completed that study. I mean,
I was convinced by about halfway through, but by the end of it, for sure. So between 2008 and
2014, that six year period, that's when I really started to become a mythicist,
started to realize the evidence for historicity doesn't hold up. So my mythicism was really
a, you know, I was convinced of it after I wrote the 2005 chapter. But there's a lot of material
in the 2005 chapter that was actually contributing to my realizing the plausibility of mythicism,
realizing that Doherty's theory works. And this is because this is what Doherty's theory was.
And it's the theory that I actually advocate under peer review in the book, which is that
they did believe that he, that Jesus assumed a body of flesh and that that body was died,
or it was killed, and that that body was buried. These are, they thought these were
historical events that actually happened, but they thought they happened in some other mythical realm,
the cosmic realm. I argue for the most evidence is the one that Doherty presents,
which is of affirmament, some sort of celestial event, because there's tons of evidence that
Satan and his demons lived up there and they had castles and gardens and all kinds of things up in
the sky, thousands of miles away. And that was actually the usual location of Satan and his
demons. And so the, the theory is that Jesus came down to that level, convinced the, the
the demons and stuff that he was a man, like a, you know, a sorcerer or something had flown up
there or whatever. And so they kill him, you know, mockingly or whatever, not realizing that this
is going to realize Jesus's mission and allow him to defeat them and overcome their power over death
and so on. And then he gets resurrected. Now in that theory, there is a body of Jesus and
is sitting up there somewhere. It's buried in a garden in Satan's, you know, back lot or something,
right? So there actually is a body that was a discarded shell that was left behind,
even in the mythos theory, even in the Doherty model, that would be the case. And it would be
similar to the fact that they're up in outer space are the bodies, also the buried bodies of Adam and
Eve. We have this from pre-Christian Jewish literature, the life of Adam and Eve, where they
talk about Adam and Eve, when they are kicked out of paradise, they are literally, it's a literal
fall, they fall from the third heaven down to earth and scratch out an existence down on earth.
And then when they die, angels come down and take the corpse, first of Adam, later of Eve,
but first of Adam, they take the corpse back up to bury him in the original paradise, the original
third heaven, the original Eden. And so his body is buried up there waiting for the resurrection,
the general resurrection at the end of time. And so already in Jewish belief, there's this idea
that there were burials, there are buried bodies up in outer space. So that was, that was already
a standard thing that they believed in and had no trouble believing in. So it would, so the Doherty
thesis actually fits context. There's not really anything to argue against it. So that's why the
question becomes simply not whether they believed Jesus took on a mortal body, even a Jewish body,
even a Davidic body, and then was killed, and then was buried, and then physically rose in a new
superior body. The question was only where did they think that happened? That's the only question
that we need to answer with regard to Paul when reading the letters of Paul. Is he talking about
events that they believed occurred on earth, or is he talking about events that he believed
occurred somewhere else? And it's even possible, I mentioned in a footnote in On the History of
Jesus, that the somewhere else could even be on earth. It could be like the lost paradise
some location on earth that just wasn't witnessed by humans. And so you could still only learn of it
by revelation. That's a possibility. I think the evidence more strongly supports the celestial
hypothesis. And anyway, all of this evidence and all of it is discussed in On the History of Jesus
as to why this is the most plausible outcome. So on that scenario, yes, the spiritual body of
Christ chapter completely fits because it's the same thinking. Yeah, the discarded shell of Jesus,
sitting up in Satan's garden or whatever. But that's not Jesus. Jesus jumped into a new body
and he ascended and now is Lord from the higher heavens. So that's how that actually would work
in completion there. So yeah, it's definitely compatible with the mythic hypothesis.
Would you agree, and I love what you're asking here, because these are questions I've asked.
Is it possible that mythicism would work and yet he comes to earth instead of dying up in heaven?
It's really weird because the literature we and the people watching this are most commonly
familiar with are not the literature you're talking about, the life of Adam and Eve.
You lose most people when they're not aware of celestial gardens and all that kind of stuff.
And it's like, no, we have this canon and why aren't we... This is the point I make in the first
chapter of Jesus from outer space is that you have to understand this literature in its actual
context. So you have to read it the way that people reading it then would understand it. You have to
know the things they know or believe or think. And I think there's a lot of anachronism. People
are looking at the Gospels, imagining that the people at that time thought the same things about
the cosmos and the world that we do and they did not. They had radically different worldviews of how
things were. Or even literature wise. We anachronistically assume, and I know this is going
to sound funny but you know what I'm saying, we assume Paul knows Matthew, Mark, Luke, John,
Revelation. That's a good example of even stronger anachronism, right? It's exactly because the
Bibles are all published with his letters after the Gospels. Everybody just assumes that Paul is
writing with knowledge of them. When you get rid of that assumption, you start to realize it's not
even possible. Obviously he doesn't have any idea about the contents of those Gospels. So clearly
they came up later. But even with regard to cosmic beliefs, and one of the examples is today,
the mainstream pretty much everywhere view is that heaven is not a place up there that you can
point to. You can't send a rocket to it, right? It's some sort of alternate dimension, right?
It's some sort of other universe. It's not even physically connected with ours.
But that's because we discovered that there's not any heaven out there.
That's the thing is that having heaven and actually, having the dead live actually on the
moon is problematic now because we've been there and we know they're not there. So you can't really
maintain this belief anymore. So we've changed that. So people are reading the text. They think
when they're talking about heaven, they think they're talking about heaven like we mean today,
this other dimensional place. That concept did not exist at all in antiquity. There was no idea
of this alternate dimension. Everything was physically accessible. Everything was part of
the complete coherent cosmos. So they thought heaven was literally up there. And in fact,
it had many layers. There was the firmament was the lowest part, which is the most corrupted heaven,
is the sub-heaven, the sub-lunar heaven. And the moon is kind of part of that, right? So the moon
is kind of orbits it and kind of creates the boundary. And some even thought like there was
like a crystal ball and they were like locked gates. So that's what Satan and his angels couldn't
get back up because they're these locked gates. And you have the right password to get past the
angel guarding the gate for each level. And it would go up. And so you'd have the first heaven
is the range between the moon and to the next planet, right? And then-
He's playing it. Yeah.
Yeah, you got Mars, Venus. The sun is one of them, right? So all the way up to the seventh heaven,
which is this field of the stars. And that's where God's throne is. And that's where this-
The other thing they believed, and again, I show all the evidence and put it in the book
and from primary sources and everything, is that everything on earth had copies in the heaven.
So like everything on earth is the most corrupted version of everything. So if there's gardens on
earth, there's gardens in the firmament. If there's gardens there, there's gardens in the first heaven,
which are even more perfect than the gardens in the second heaven or even more perfect. And the
most perfect, absolutely perfect gardens are the gardens in the seventh heaven. And they are the
fundamental model that all the others are- poorer emanations are all going all the way down.
Isn't this where Paul is his celestial body concepts coming from that you're going to have
the most seventh heaven? Correct. Yeah. I mean, he doesn't specify seventh heaven.
Right. He just just talked about the star stuff. But he does say, yeah, everything below the moon,
he doesn't say moon, but he says of this world, of the earth. But he's talking about earth and its
atmosphere. And to them, that was everything to the moon. They hadn't- There were some scientists
who knew the atmosphere ended long before the moon. But the general belief was the atmosphere
went all the way to the moon, but that it was 100,000 miles or more. They were aware of the
distance that was vast. So this isn't like a little like a- like Satan's living really close
in the sky. He's literally thousands of miles away. That's why you can't see him. Right. So,
so that's their- this is- but this is- these are their beliefs. They actually- this is how
people believed and understood the world was organized. So you have to understand that in
order to understand what these texts mean and what these people are saying. So when Paul says he
knows someone who went to the third heaven and visited Eden, he says they visited paradise in
the third heaven, which is a direct reference to the life of Adam and Eve. So he's fully aware
of the fact that Adam's body is buried up there. He knows this text and so on.
And he says there are secret things were communicated there that he can't- he can't repeat in the
letter. Right. So some scholars think he's referring to himself that that's- Paul did that. I'm not
sure of that, but it doesn't matter. He genuinely- and his other Christians that he's writing to,
genuinely believe someone genuinely went to the third heaven in some fashion.
Which is the Adam and Eve. Which would be- in- in most heliocentrics- or no, in most geocentric
schemes would be the sphere of the sun. Okay. So it would be the sphere- it would be the sphere either
of the sun or I think of Venus. I can't remember which, but they're different schemes, right? So-
but usually it would be the sun. So that would be the- the realm where the sun orbited is the
role where paradise is. And which ironically is where the Normans think that there's secret
cities inside the sun, right? That's- anyway, that would have been totally- they would have said,
oh yeah, of course there are cities inside the sun. That's- that's the third heaven. Where else would
it be? But- so anyway, Paul says that there are people that there- he knows someone and all the
Christians know that someone has gone to the third heaven and heard secret things told them there.
In paradise in the third heaven, very important to mention. This is just normal. This is the-
like how they believe the world is organized. And so you can't understand what they're talking about
if you don't see it from their point of view. You've got to get rid of all the anachronistic
assumptions like this heaven of an- as another dimension. That's not how they understood the
world. It would have been unintelligible to them at the time. So that's just one example. There are
many other examples of things that people take for granted in this time that you have to understand
are different from the way we assume things today. And- and another example is the idea that well a
hero or a messiah should be like- should never have any struggles and should never be defeated or
anything like that. He should always be perfect. But that's actually- there's actually no example
of that in any literature in antiquity. Neither Jewish nor- nor pagan. The idea that heroes had
to go through struggles and suffering- and have a downside and then recover from was the norm.
Like that was how you understood heroes. You- you couldn't understand a hero that never- never had
any trouble and never had any struggles, never had a passion. So that- so that when you understand
that the mindset like- of course Jesus is going to have his own passion. This- this mythic hero is
going- because that's what all mythic heroes did back then. You- you wouldn't have a mythic hero if
it wasn't in a model like that. So that's just another example. But there's a lot of ways that
you come at this. You have to see the world from the way they saw it. And then you understand that
these texts mean different things than we've been assuming because our assumptions are based on our
modern ideas that- that they're not existent when these texts were written.
So the final question I have in this, and this is something I think I'm sure you'll share my struggle
in terms of when you think about mythicism. Yeah. When the Gospels come up, this is the thing. You
know how I already mentioned, we don't have- you know, we're- we're packaged to read
Matthew to Revelation. Right. We aren't packaged to read Life of Adam and Eve,
all of this other background information. Because Enoch is really important. Absolutely
necessary in order to get the mindset of someone like Paul, or even to have an
idea maybe what Paul thought. Yeah. But do you feel- and- and I'd love to hear your struggle with
this- how much of a pain in the ass it is trying to promote or even say, look, mythicism seems to
maybe be the most plausible because the Gospels already- they paint this picture. And so you
have scholars like Delcey Allison, for example, he said on- on the air, I asked him, Paul's vision
of the resurrected Christ, resurrected Jesus. Do you think that Paul thought Jesus bodily
rose as in like physically? Or do you think this is some like what Jim Tabor, when I interviewed him,
he says, look, this is a spiritual body. It's not complete flesh and blood. No, he says flesh and
blood cannot inherit the kingdom. Okay. But it's another type of body, whatever it might be, it
might glow, it might have light. It's important to make that distinction that it's a bodily resurrection
either way. But I think the distinction is flesh- is the flesh or is it a new body? Is the
flesh left behind? That's the question you- So this is the thing Delcey Allison said, and you'll
see what I'm saying about this whole Gospels sticks this wrench in mythicism in a way, and it
doesn't mean it disproves it. What I mean is it causes hindering for people to understand
the mythicism and how this makes sense, is that Del Allison said, well, I think Paul's vision of a
resurrection, he says he was buried. It's not that far off to say if he was buried, Mark says he
was buried, and he rose from a tomb. So like he has this continuity concept as most Christians see
a continuity and disconnecting Paul from gospel ideas is so complex to go, okay, look, you've
got a Pontius Pilate narrative here. He's killed and crucified by Pontius Pilate. What are you doing?
Is Pontius Pilate in the first heaven here? And that is the hard part for people.
That's why it's so essential to understand the mythographic style of the way the Gospels are
composed, which also requires context again, understanding context. You got to look at,
if you really want to understand what it means to have a mythic hero historicized,
you should read the stories of all the mythic heroes historicized. So we have A Life of Romulus
by Plutarch. It looks exactly like the biography of real people. He has a biography of Caesar.
It looks exactly the same, right? You know, it's very similar in the construction, the way they
would tell these stories. And so he would ask, like, why would they make up all this historical
stuff about Romulus? Why would they write about it like it's a historical biography when he never
existed? You have to understand the mindset of what they're doing here. What is going on here?
What is the purpose of this life and the biography of it? And why are they packaging it that way?
And the fact that this was common. You pick any non-existent hero who is historicized,
there are Gospels of them, right? So you're like Plutarch, talks about the lives that were written
of Osiris. And he quotes and actually cites the things that happened events in his life and
struggles he went through and stuff like that. While at the same time Plutarch says, yes, but all
of that's front allegory. It's all symbolism meant to prevent outsiders from understanding the truth.
The truth is that Osiris was actually killed by the equivalent of Satan in the outer space
below the moon. It's basically the exact same model that I think Doherty is right about for
Jesus. I think they borrowed the same idea. Osiris is actually the sense becomes incarnate
in a body of flesh and is killed by set up in the heavens. And then resurrects becomes
triumphant and ascends again. And you only know this spiritually. No one was there to go witness
it because it didn't happen down here. But yet they go around telling the story of the death
and resurrection of Osiris as an earthly event, as a pharaoh who gets killed by an enemy and stuff
like that. That's normal. That's the thing. You've got to understand that that's actually the ordinary
way that's going on and people are writing about the mythic heroes in this time. So when you look
at like Marx doing the same thing, he's doing the same thing. Plutarch did with Romulus. He's
doing the same thing that the Egyptian priest did with the story of Osiris. Pick anybody. They're
doing the same thing. And then, of course, that becomes more obvious. So that's the context. So
the context already tells you that, okay, it's already possible that Marx is doing the same
stuff. Now the evidence, you go in and look at the evidence and you can confirm that this is what
Marx is doing because you go through it and you analyze story from story to story and the structure
of the stories. This is where I go into in chapter 10 and on the historicity of Jesus.
You see that Marx is literally crafting the entire thing as a parable. He wants it's the
message, not the literal events that matter. For him, it's you're supposed to get the point of the
story. You're not supposed to go around like a fundamentalist insisting that it historically
happened because the true insider knows it's the superficial story is not the actual meaning of
the story. The story is what is it conveying? What is the message of it? So when you get to like
Mark talking about the empty tomb, this is all symbol. And he actually, it's often been denied,
but you can find he's got illusions from scripture that he's constructing out of. He's getting material
from pagan literature too about empty tomb stories and stuff. He's actually pulling this stuff
together and creating his own basically tale. It's a tall tale that he's telling. But the reason
he's picking pieces, they're not arbitrary, it's not just arbitrarily copying stuff. He's choosing,
everything he chooses to assemble from other sources to assemble his story out of has a purpose.
It has a communicative meaning that you would theoretically, at the time, preach from. You
probably wouldn't preach to the public. You would preach in to congregations, to insiders, right?
At this time when Mark is publishing. So it would be like Jesus. Mark 4 has Jesus say this,
like, to outsiders, I'm telling these stories. But to you guys, I'm going to take you aside and
in private, I'm going to tell you the true meaning of the stories. Don't be deceived by the outside
superficial stories. When I talk about a guy met a guy, I don't mean that actually happened. I mean,
there's some sort of symbolic meaning here you have to get. So Mark has Jesus say this outright
to insiders. So that's the model for the Christian church at his time is insiders are going to get
the truth. Outsiders are going to be told a sort of fictional story and they're supposed to believe
it is true. But that makes them the damned, right? They're the ones who are going to be distracted
by this superficial historical story and be never get the truth. But the insiders are going to be
given the truth as the symbolic meaning is the truth, right? So this is when Mark is writing,
it's obvious. He tells us practically that and by having Jesus say this in chapter 4. So when
he's doing the empty tomb, he's not really intending you to think that there was actually an empty
tomb. That's not relevant. He's not quite citing sources. He's not saying, well, the women were
there and told me he doesn't say that noise. This is a story and the women run away, right? And so
there is a use of the story in literalist context, right? Because people will point out that having
the women run away and never tell anyone would explain why no one's ever heard of this empty
tomb before. So it has utility for selling the literal story. It's still a fake story. It's
completely made up. But I think the insider is supposed to get that if you think this is about
an empty tomb, you're completely missing the point. This is a symbol for the land of the dead.
It's a symbol for Jesus' triumph and what that's death and triumph means because there's illusions
to, for example, in that chapter that we've mentioned before in the empty tomb on the spiritual
body of Christ, I have the whole section on the legend of the empty tomb and I show like there's
definite illusions to Jacob's well. So basically Mark is crafting the story to make the empty tomb
allude to Jacob's well, the Jacob's well story. And so an insider is supposed to catch that
and then go back, or they probably wouldn't have to because they already know the story,
but they could go back to the story of Jacob's well where it's about how basically it's an
analogy to the water of life will save Israel and stuff like that. So this is Jacob's well,
the empty tomb is Jacob's well. Out of the death of Jesus will be the salvation of Israel,
the new Israel in their perspective. So you get all these, there are symbolical purposes, right?
It's not history. Once you see that, then now we have the context of, yes, this is what's done
to construct mythical historical stories about non-existent people. And then here we have internal
evidence. This is exactly what Mark is doing. And once you have that, there's just nothing left.
There's no thing to argue from is like, well, maybe there's something historical in Mark.
Say, well, yes, maybe, but we have no evidence of that. And all the evidence is perfectly well
explained by it not being the case, but Mark just coming up with it. And I've mentioned before,
I have a whole article on how Mark, a lot of what Mark is doing is reifying the letters of Paul.
He's taking those things that Paul just teaches and says, and he's creating stories involving
Jesus walking around talking to people that reify and represent the teachings of Paul. So he's
using Jesus as a character as a voice piece for Paul and as the mouthpiece for the gospel and the
message and everything. So there's a lot of what Mark is doing in the gospel and his construction
of stories and even its arrangement comes from Paul. He's just, you know, taking what's in Paul,
which is not a narrative of Jesus. It's just teachings. And then he's turning it into a narrative
about Jesus. And that's in context normal. That's what they always did. That's how myth was constructed
all the time. So it's obvious Mark is doing this. So that since that fully explains, you can explain
all the content of Mark that way. There isn't anything in Mark that is more probably historical
that relates to Jesus. Like he puts historical characters in there, but there's the fact that
they interacted with Jesus that you can't, there's no external corroborating evidence that that
ever happened. Right. The part about Jesus just is not. I mean, we might as well ask, did Romulus
engage with historical places and people? Yeah, exactly. Yeah, exactly. Right. Like there really
was a Rome, right? There really were kings of Rome and stuff. And, but no, Romulus wasn't there.
So, so that's the point that you have to get, understand in the context of this. And when
you get it in context, and you see that there are passages in Mark, or 5050, where I can say we
can't prove he's mythologizing here, but we also can't prove that it's historically based. And
with 5050, you can't use that passage to argue for either theory. So it just gets chucked. You
can't use it as evidence. And what's left, apart from those uncertain 5050 cases, is all pro-myth.
Like it's all obviously this is a myth. There's nothing supporting it being historical. It's
more probably. So the prior probability that the rest of Mark is, is non-historical is, you know,
high already, right? So we can show this. So yeah, it does require this. And you asked if I get
frustrated over this tonight. I get frustrated when scholars don't get this because they ought to
know better. They, they should by now know all of this stuff. I was shocked and surprised that
I had to have my chapters four and five and on the history of Jesus so long,
because in my interactions with scholars over this, they're, it's not that they all didn't
know all the things in there. Every one of them knew bunches of things in those chapters,
but none of them knew everything in those chapters. And so I never found anyone who knew
all of that stuff. So I had to put all of that stuff in there, even though it's not even really
disputable. It's all firmly in evidence and even like in many cases well supported by peer-reviewed
scholarship already. I had to put those long chapters of the 48 elements to put that in there
so that people can get the context so they understand where I'm coming from. And if you,
if you're still operating on anachronism, you don't know that stuff, you won't get the rest. But
scholars should know this. They should know, not only should they already know all of that stuff,
but even if they don't, they should know that as a scholar, oh, I should check into that.
I should read those chapters, get up to speed so that I know the right context that we're talking
about. That's how scholars should behave. They just won't read it. They ignore it and pretend
that it's not true. And then you get ridiculous, we can go into examples in another video maybe, but
examples of them making declarations about the ancient world that are plainly demonstrably
false, like outright false, because they didn't check. They didn't even read the chapters where
I actually present the primary evidence in the scholarship and stuff. So that frustrates the
hell to me that everyone else wouldn't get it doesn't frustrate me at all. I think this is an
opportunity to like teach them things that they aren't being taught by the experts. They aren't
being taught by their pastors. They won't have heard of this stuff. And it's valuable for them to
get a better understanding of the ancient world. And this is their opportunity to do it. So even
if you don't believe in mythicism, the book on the historicity of Jesus will be super useful to
you because it has all of this background information that will give you a better sense of the context
of antiquity, so that you will understand everything about Christian literature better,
even if you're a historicist, even if you think Jesus existed. So I think, so for regular people,
I'm not frustrated at all. I totally expect this. And so I hope that they will be encouraged to
actually read this stuff so they can get up to speed and learn this stuff so they have a better
sense of antiquity. And I don't expect them to already know that because how would you, right?
So it's us experts should know this already. And wow. So that's anyway,
that's my long response to your question there. Excellent. Thank you.
