Have you ever asked yourself why do we believe in gods at all?
Ask those who worship gods or a god and they'll tell you the gods put those desires in man when
they created us. Well is there a natural explanation? I've been telling you guys for a long time
that I'm looking for natural explanations these days. I don't turn to superstition to try and
figure stuff out. So Jay Anderson Thompson wrote a book called Why We Believe in Gods.
You must get it. It's down in the description. I really ask that you do and tell me what you
think of this. Fascinating presentation that he's going to give us today. He is a psychiatrist,
MD of course, and he studies lots of things and a couple of the things I think are worth noting
is his study in understanding on depression, suicide, terrorism and religious belief. I
saw a video on YouTube with him and he was actually working with the Richard Dawkins
Foundation which is actually a part of the Center for Inquiry. Make sure you guys hit that like
button to this video. I ask that you spread this information out because I think this is vital in
changing how we humans act and how we understand ourselves and the beliefs that we have carried
for thousands of years. Also become a patron. Help us at MythVision grow. You can do so at
Patreon and I've got a lot more ideas on what I'm going to continue to do with Patreon. So help us
by supporting us in some way or hit that one-time donation in the PayPal. Love you guys. Tell me
what you think of the show.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. Your host, Derek Lambert. Today,
I figure I would take you guys into a wonderful presentation by now, a good friend of mine,
and that is Dr. Andy Thompson. So let me give you guys a little backdrop about him real quick
as we get ready to do this presentation. You guys are going to be really, really excited about this
one. Jay Anderson Thompson Jr., MD, he goes by Andy, is a psychiatrist in private practice in
Charlottesville, Virginia. He is also a staff psychiatrist at Counseling and Psychological
Services at University of Virginia Student Health Services and the Institute of Law,
Psychiatry and Public Policy at the University of Virginia. Dr. Thompson's current research
interest is in the area of evolutionary psychology and using its principles to understand depression,
suicide, terrorism, and religious belief. And I think you get suicide terrorism, so I think that
kind of goes into the same thing. Why are fanatics fanatics? He also wrote a book. Everyone needs to
get their hands on why we believe in gods, right? So I saw a presentation on YouTube a while back
with him and Richard Dawkins, Dr. Dawkins. Why we believe in gods, a concise guide to the science
of faith. Really, really interesting book. The Ford is done by Richard Dawkins. It's a really,
really well-written book and it goes deep. You're going to get a glimpse into this book today
in a presentation that he's going to elaborate and take you through the reasons why we believe in
gods at all. What is the point? And I'm going to have a little Q&A after this, but he's going to
give a visual presentation. I hope you guys like this video. Make sure you guys become a patron.
You guys go down in the description to help get the book from Dr. Thompson
and any other of the links that he has down in the description. I ask you guys to go support
what he does. So with that being said, welcome to the show. Thank you. On the dogmas of religion,
as distinguished from moral principle, all mankind, from the beginning of the world
to the present, have been fighting, quarreling, burning, and torturing one another
over abstractions, unintelligible to themselves and to all others, and absolutely beyond the
comprehension of the human mind. Absolutely beyond the comprehension of the human mind.
Thomas Jefferson said those words in 1816. And the essence of my talk today is that should you
run into Mr. Jefferson next week, you could say to him, no, Mr. President, religion is no longer
beyond the comprehension of the human mind. In fact, we are tantalizingly close to a cognitive
neuroscience of religious belief. We now know why human minds generate religious beliefs,
why they are so powerful, why we are all vulnerable to subscribe to them, and to spread them.
That knowledge is before us. We're the first generation in the history of the world
that is starting to understand and have a comprehensive understanding of why human
minds are vulnerable to generate and to accept religious beliefs. And what you could also say
to Mr. Jefferson is that we're in that position, because when he made those comments in 1816,
there was a seven-year-old boy named Charles Darman, who would grow up to give us one of the
most important, if not the most important, idea that ever occurred to human mind,
evolution by natural selection, the only workable explanation we have for the design
and variety of all life on earth, and also the only workable explanation we have for the
architecture of the human mind and part of that architecture, the pieces that lead to religious
belief. And Darman himself, when he wrote Origin of the Species in 1859, he knew the implication
that his discovery, because in the next to the last paragraph, he said psychology will be based
on a new foundation. And it took about 150 years for the principles of evolutionary biology
to be applied to the human mind. And one of the findings that came out of evolutionary psychology,
evolutionary anthropology, is the understanding of why human minds generate religious beliefs.
And let me give you a little map of what we're going to be doing this morning.
And the other interesting thing is that today is actually Darwin's birthday,
February 12. It would have been 211 years old today. So happy birthday, Mr. Darman.
Let me give you a map. We're going to do the basics of the modern Darwinian synthesis,
evolution by natural selection. Then we're going to do a little bit about human evolution,
because that's important. And then we will go into just some of the cognitive neuroscience
of religious belief. What I hope to show you is that religious belief arises from
mechanisms that we use in everyday life, even though religious ideas may seem extreme,
they are really just one step away from ideas that we use every day that you're using right now.
And then we'll talk about religious ritual. Religion comes from the word religious, which means
debauched. And I'll show you why religion empowers itself by harnessing certain neurotransmitters
in religious ritual, one of the other things that makes it so powerful. Before I jump into the
talk, I want to thank a number of people. First and foremost, Mr. Lamberg for contacting me
and asking me to give you this presentation today. Also, my co-author on the book, Claire Alprefer,
I'm a publisher at Kurt Bolton, but particularly Richard Dawkins. I've had the opportunity to
work with his foundation, now part of CFI, to learn from him, also the others at the forefront
of the secular movement, the late Christopher Hitchens, Sam Harris, Ion Hercielli, all of those
people. And the really unsung heroes of this presentation, all the anthropologists, the psychologists
whose research is giving us that comprehensive understanding of religious belief.
All right. This is the typical understanding of evolution by natural selection. Certain traits
enhance survival. If that's what you think, I want to shift your understanding just a little bit,
because it's not survival, it's only survival for reproductive success and the reproductive
success of genes, right? The modern Darwinian synthesis shows us that evolution doesn't act
at the level of the individual, me. Evolution acts at the level of the gene, double helix.
And if you step back from it for a moment, that makes sense, because what's the fundamental
unit of life? It's the genes. We're right now in the midst of a coronavirus epidemic,
and genes that build viruses that can easily spread into hosts, those are the genes that
proliferate. We're now hearing about these mutants, these variants. When you hear that,
that's a genetic shift that makes that virus more able to reproduce the genes that built that
virus. That's the modern Darwinian synthesis. This is a nice statement of it. Now, I'm going
to give you a moment here, let you read it, and then I'll explain more.
An organism is an integrated collection of problem-solving devices, adaptations that were
shaped by natural selection over evolutionary time to promote, in some specific way, the survival
of the genes that directed their construction, Simmons 2005. So, if you think about it, every
organism you mean bacteria plants is this integrated collection of problem-solving devices
that are solving a constant stream of problems. My heart solved the problem of pumping blood,
my lungs solved the problem of extracting oxygen from the air. Hemoglobin in our blood
solves the problem of transporting that oxygen all over the body. So, at every level of biological
inquiry from cells to brains to people, integrated collection of problem-solving devices.
Now, the other reason this statement is important is because this is also a description of the human
mind. The mind is what the brain does, and the brain is this integrated collection of problem-solving
devices shaped by natural selection over evolutionary time to promote, in some way,
the survival of the genes that built those problem-solving devices, those adaptations.
So, you're looking at this screen right now. This screen is an upside-down two-dimensional
image on your retina, and your brain has myriad adaptations which are turning it into the three
dimensional view that you have. And I like Steve Pinker's analogy. The mind is like the
Apollo spacecraft. What's the Apollo spacecraft? It's this compact array of engineering devices
that are solving a constant stream of problems only some of which are made conscious to the
astronauts. Your mind brain is the same thing. It is solving a constant stream of problems
some of which become conscious to you, and we're going to be particularly focused on what are
called social adaptations. The adaptations in our mind that are used to negotiate the complexities
of social life. I must say, Dr. Thompson, that's what interested me, and there's so many things
that are so clever in your presentation, and in your book, of course, which is seriously go get the
book, guys. I cannot recommend that enough because you're going to see your everyday life,
common things that you just never thought. For example, when you're going to sleep and you feel
like you're falling off the edge of a cliff, well, I always do that, and I catch my breath like,
oh man, go to sleep. Why did I feel like I was falling? Well, a lot of people say,
well, you just stopped breathing or this and this and that. Come to find out, we once lived in trees,
and this might be an evolutionary mechanism preventing us from, so I'm just giving you
like a just a little tease. You're going to see things. Thank you. No, that's a nice example.
We are very sensitive to falling and to falling off of edges, and so we wake up very easily,
and that may be a legacy of our time as Lucy when we were still living in trees, and we had to be,
you know, sensitive about falling out of a tree because we can get killed or eaten.
Speaking of Lucy, let's now shift and please, Mr. Lambert, just what you just did. If you see
something that's interesting you want to highlight, absolutely jump in, please.
I just thought what you said was fascinating because we're going to see things we can't
usually see. You're going to break that. You're going to interpret things for us in a way that
we would not know to interpret them, and that's why I'm thankful for what you do.
Well, no, you're going to jump in, I think, probably at places where people who are,
you know, part of your broadcast would also be interested, so absolutely. It's a way of
getting an indirect audience here. Yes, sir. All right, now we're going to switch to human evolution,
and this is a painting on a cave, obviously, and I picked it deliberately. Notice the bow.
All right, the fundamental here is that we are not fallen angels. We are risen apes. We are
actually an African ape, and in that development, in that development of mammals and primates
and African apes are the mechanisms, the everyday mechanisms that go to building religious belief,
and Darwin knew this, and even though the origin of species and natural selection
is clearly also relates to humans, he never mentioned humans. They were the sort of great
unacknowledged presence in that book, and this is the one place that he mentioned it.
He knew we were probably descendants of apes in Africa. He knew at the time that he wrote the
origin, and he then published it in 1870. I want you to change your mind about Africa.
If somebody asks you where you're from, you say Africa, and I thought you were from Texas.
Well, you know, most recently, but actually I'm originally from Africa. Africa has our bones.
Africa is where we arose. We are all Africans. There are seven plus billion people on the earth
today. All seven billion of us are descendants of a small group of hunter-gatherers that arose in
Africa two to three hundred thousand years ago and conquered the world. So put aside your religious,
racial, ethnic, political differences. Underneath our skins, we are all Africans.
And if you look to your right, you'll see what is called the Great Rift Valley, which runs from
Somalia down the east coast of Africa all the way to South Africa. And you want to think of
that as the probable birth canal of the human species. It's called the east side story. That's
probably where we arose. And one of the crucial things was the switch to becoming primates.
Primates have eyes in the front of their head. Think of a squirrel with the eyes on the side of
the head. You can see that most of it is just one eye, monocular vision. And the areas of
binocular vision, two eyes, is very small. And binocular vision is much, much better. And we
evolved binocular vision, primates, monkeys, apes. And you can see that it's a much, much
greater field. But you can't see your back. So you need somebody to have your back.
You're a social species. We have each other's back. We are all our brothers and sisters' keepers.
Think of lemurs. Think of lemurs as your earliest primate ancestor. The early primates were like
modern-day lemurs. Now, next time you go to your family physician and they ask for your family
history, get them this. This is your history as a primate. And it goes from the primates on your
left 65 million years ago, primates, then monkeys, and then the evolution of apes. You see in the
middle, the last common ancestor between monkeys and apes, probably 25 million years ago, that you
can say, well, Andy, why are you going over this? Because many of the mechanisms we have are ancient,
far more ancient than us. As we'll talk about, one of the crucial things in religion is the
attachment system. And the attachment system is a basic mammalian system. I also, like whales,
have attachments. But it's crucial to primates. It's crucial to monkeys, to apes, and to us,
the attachment system. So many of the systems I'm going to be talking about go back even well
before us. So this is your primate where we shifted from basic mammals to primates. Now,
I want you to look over on the right, the other black silhouette. That's the common ancestor,
the last common ancestor between chimps and bonobos and apes. We share about 99% of our
genes with chimps and bonobos. And so about five million years ago, it was a common ancestor,
and one line became chimps and bonobos, and the other line became the hominids. And you see that
little squiggle just to your right that goes from the black silhouette of two humans. That tiny
little line is this. This is your hominid family history. So if your physician says, no, no, no,
I want your immediate family history, this is what you give them. This is your, this is the
hominid line, five million years of evolution of hominids, artipithecus, astralopithecinus.
And if your physician says, no, no, no, I want your immediate family history,
you give them this. This is our genus Homo erectus, Homo bohabilis. And our genus is 2.4
million years old. And it is very hard for us to get our minds around the time sequences
involved here. They're obviously massive. But if you just take our genus Homo, right, 2.4 million
years, here's a little exercise you can do. Think of today, February 12th, the whole day, 24 hours,
we're going to take every hour and make it 100,000 years. So today, 24 hours is 2.4 million years
ago. So midnight, last night, our genus Homo shows up. Sometime this morning around six o'clock,
some of them start to leave Africa. About noon today, some will make it to what is modern day
Europe. At six o'clock tonight, our immediate ancestor, Homo heidelbergensis,
shows up in Africa. Some of the Homo heidelbergensis goes to what is now Europe and become
Neanderthals, about nine o'clock tonight. In Africa, about 10 o'clock tonight, we show up,
Homo sapiens. And it is probably about 11.20 tonight, that fully formed modern
you and me, anatomically, behaviorally modern human beings show up, 11.20 tonight.
It is not until, it is not until six minutes before midnight, about 10,000 years ago,
that we settle down into agricultural communities in the Near East. And in some sense, modern life
begins. We settle down in agricultural communities, and we may actually have settled down into those
agricultural communities to brew a better beer. We may owe civilization to beer, but that's another
story. What we think of as modern times, even the most basic agricultural hunter-gatherer life,
settled life in pre-agriculture, agricultural communities, is six minutes before midnight.
And that's just our genus, Homo, 2.4 million years. Why am I going through this? Because
all of the social mechanisms that I'm talking about, that went into religion, that go into
religion, again, many of them come out of that period of time. And this just shows our genus
leaving Africa. The numbers are in millions of years. And these are some of the archaeologic
sites. But we come out of Africa starting almost two million years ago. Then our species, again,
shows up in Africa. We're somewhere between 200,000, 300,000 years old. And then we leave Africa
and we conquer the world. And we are the last surviving hominid. The enderthals lasted to
maybe 25,000 years ago. Homo florensis on the little island off of Indonesia. I think that's
like 20,000 years ago. But we're now the last surviving hominid. Why? That's one of the great
questions. And one of the answers may be because we develop mechanisms of what's called ultra-sociality.
We're intensely cooperative social species. That may be part of the reasons. And it's those social
mechanisms that go into religion. And we migrated all around the world. Notice the man in the middle
and the one in the back, and also actually the man in the front. Notice what they're carrying.
And one of the reasons we may have conquered the world is that somewhere around 70,000 years ago,
we developed bow and arrow technology. A kind of paleolithic nuclear weapon.
And we know Neanderthals had spears. Homo heidelbergensis had spears. But what we know is that
they didn't throw them. That it was all up close. And so 70,000 years ago, we developed the deadly
bow and arrow technology. And one of the reasons we may be the last surviving hominid
is we wiped out all the others. What's some of the evidence for that? This is one of the earliest
grave sites of our species. These are Homo sapiens in Egypt. And all the pencils point to,
these are two males, and all the pencils point to arrowheads that are embedded in their bodies.
What is one of the uses of religion? It is to bind groups together and to prepare them and to
encourage them for war. And you can see the caption, if you believe in me, divide into sex,
kill and hurt as many from the other sex as you possibly can. And as we will talk about,
one of the uses of religion is to bond men together for the purposes of violence and
war, intergroup aggression. And we'll also see that that's one of the purposes of religious rituals.
So again, I can't stress enough that whenever you think of the origins of humans and our psychology,
our psychology did not arise in 19th century Europe. Our psychology is a hunter-gatherer
psychology from the savannas of Africa that evolved over millions of years.
Always keep in mind that the evolutionary past is what frames your experiences of the present.
Our modern skulls contain a hunter-gatherer brain. You know, we're still sadly very, very trial.
Another way to think about this is that life for most of our evolutionary history was an
endless camping trip with close relatives. I don't know how fun that would be.
I guess you get used to being a social creature. I'm just being funny, of course,
but you'd probably enjoy it in those days. That was kind of part of life.
Well, yes and no. I think there were advantages, clearly. I mean, I think people were closer and
more mutually interdependent than maybe today. But I'm quite grateful for antibiotics and electricity
and hot showers. But my psychology, just like all of us, our psychology is still
a hunter-gatherer, tribal, intensely social psychology. Those mechanisms that allow us
that close interpersonal connection, those same mechanisms are used to generate religious beliefs
and religious beliefs functions. One of the main uses is group bonding. It can be, as all of us
here know, group bonding for the purpose of a deadly violence. I guess this is a question slash
a little poking. First of all, when I went to a counselor a while back, I was going through some
struggles in life, they talked about codependency. I imagine codependency might have come out of
these very tight bonds socially and depending on one another, that it can be unhealthy to some
degree, probably, depending on the kind of habits you have in that relationship. Would that come
out of something like this? I think that's an excellent observation. And I'm a minority view
here. But I think we have to be careful about labeling things negatively, you know, codependent.
The reality is we are all codependent. We're all interdependent. I'm sitting here today because
of the work of innumerable people. And we're all still, even in the modern world, intensely
rely upon other people. You know, we're actually relying on the people who make the electricity
happen here in Charlottesville. So, you know, the idea of the Marlboro man, the independence,
going alone is, in a sense, an unfortunate myth. And so, I don't like negative labels like
codependent. I mean, I think, you know, there are relationships that have problems.
And I think we have to avoid sort of negative or critical, pejorative labels.
What about monogamy? What about the idea of being with one, because you know how animals are,
animals, they kind of, they're kind of, they kind of have a polyamorous slash monogamy type of
stance. And I feel naturally humans are like that. It's natural to see other women and be
attracted as a guy at the same time, having your girl and vice versa. Did monogamy, you think,
came out of our being socially like very close and tight-knitted?
Well, that's a, that's a, that's a really complicated situation, because it goes back
to a more basic difference between the sexes that has to do with what's called parental investment.
Anybody watching this who's interested, look up Robert Trivers' parental investment,
and there's a huge skew between the amount of parental investment that women have in offspring
and the amount of parental investment that men have. And maybe let's, let's hold that for...
Yeah, yeah. I'm sorry.
... because, well, but no, but it's, no, it's an important question, because again, I think
a couple of things here, that understanding evolutionary biology, understanding the concepts
of evolutionary biology, understanding parental investment and the difference in parental investment
in the sexes goes a long way to understanding the difference in sexual behavior between men
and women of our species. Religion, one of the, you know, uses of religion is to control the
reproductive resources of women. Think of the, the Muslim women in shadow, right? So religion gets
heavily involved in trying to control women's sexuality. So it's, it is connected. This creates
something that is going to be important to understanding religion, which is a mismatch
theory, the mismatch between the environment we are involved for and the environment that we live
in today. And, and again, always keep in mind, and when you're talking about any fundamental
human trait, and even the fundamental structures, and we'll see a religion and religious ritual,
it goes back to our hunter-gatherer path on the savannas of Africa. And echoes of that,
as I will show you, are even in our modern religions. This is on, on your left, a skull of
Homo erectus, on the right, one of our skulls, Homo sapiens. And I put it up there to show you
the differences and look particularly in this area, the frontal lobes. And one of the features
of hominid evolution is the rapid growth in our brains, rapid and evolutionary times,
in any sense of evolutionary time. Lucy, Strollopithecines, their, their brain, I think,
was like 400 cubic centimeters. Homo habilis, it was maybe 800 cubic centimeters. I think ours is
something like 14 or 1500. We had very rapid brain growth, and particularly in the areas of the
frontal lobe. So what drove that brain growth? Think about it. As, as Homo, we had largely
conquered the physical environment. You know, we had left Africa, gotten as far as Indonesia,
up into what is today the Caucasus Mountains, cold climates. So even a couple of million years ago,
we had conquered the physical environment. So what was the environment that was creating the
natural selection pressures that drove this very rapid brain growth? Not the physical environment.
So what was the environment that pushed this rapid, huge growth of our brains, particularly our
frontal lobes? Well, it was each other, the interpersonal social environment, and developing
these social adaptations in our brain, many of which reside in our frontal lobes that allow for
this ultra-sociality, this ultra-cooperativeness. Bees, ants, insects, what do they have? They have
these huge groups that are in intense cooperative networks. They have something that's called
eusociality, right? Colony life, multi-generational care of the young, cooperative care of the young.
I have a one-year-old grandson. I'll gladly let you hold him, right? And chimpanzee mother won't
let her sister hold her baby, right? So we take it for granted, but we have something that's
unusual, this cooperative care of the young. We have division of labor. Think of the different
jobs that we do and do with each other, specialties that we have. We defend our group, we defend our
local communal group, and we have self-sacrifice, which can lead to suicide, and maybe it is part
of what even drives suicide in our species. So we achieve eusociality, colony life, and this
may be another secret to why we are the only surviving prominent in this intense ultra-social
species. Why is this important? All right, we're going to move away from human evolution, and I'm
going to start now to give you a taste for the mechanisms that generate religious beliefs.
So religious ideas are byproducts of cognitive mechanisms that were originally designed for
other purposes. They are, in a sense, an artifact of our ability to imagine different social worlds.
They are always human concepts with just slight alterations. One of the things I want you to
take away from this is that even the craziest of religious ideas is actually just one step away
from everyday cognitive mechanisms. What's a byproduct? What's the difference between an
adaptation and a byproduct? Because people will say, well, religion is so strong, it couldn't
just be a byproduct. Think about it for a moment. Reading and writing. Reading and writing is a
cultural byproduct of biological adaptations. We have biological adaptations for vision,
we have biologic adaptations for speech, we have a biological adaptation of language,
we have a biological adaptation of fine motor movement, our hands. So reading and writing,
we don't have reading and writing adaptations in our brain, you have to work hard for a few
years to learn to read and write. Reading and writing is a byproduct of these
biologic cognitive mechanisms, and I don't think anybody listening to this talk would say that
reading and writing is a small feature of humanity. It obviously is huge. It has transformed us.
Similarly, religion is a byproduct of these mechanisms, and obviously it has had a huge
impact on our species. If you've been to a Pentecostal service and people start speaking in
tongues, what do they do? They reach up. They're reaching up. If you've ever been around
one-and-a-half or two-year-olds who can walk, what do they do? They wobble over to you and they
reach up wanting you to pick them up. That's one manifestation of the attachment bond, the
attachment response, and our attachment system is very much involved in religion.
When we're distressed, what do we do? We reach for an attachment figure. We reach for a caretaker.
Anyone that's interested in this, I'd encourage you to look at an article that you can pull up on
the web called On Becoming Attached by Robert Karen, the people that mapped this out, British
psychiatrist John Bowlby, American psychologist Mary Ainsworth. They mapped out the attachment
system, which is a basic mammalian system, but they mapped out the attachment systems in humans.
We use it obviously in our love relationships, in our childcare, in our friendships. The attachment
bond is huge. The attachment system is huge and religion utilizes it, or I would say hijacks it.
If I may, Dr. Thompson, I think it's fascinating about this. I'm looking at myself when I see this
image because I used to be involved in non-denominational churches that spoke in tongues,
but not just churches that speak in tongues do this. We have some more conservative non-denominational
or non-speaking in tongues, non-charismatic churches that still have the praise and worship,
and they still put hands up, or sometimes they do a different type of gesture.
But one of the points is, Christian music in general, sometimes you can confuse the song
for a loved one, like a spouse or a parent, and it's almost like God is interchangeable
with this social thing you're discussing here, which is fascinating.
Absolutely. No, and thank you because you're absolutely right. It illustrates how the attachment
system is used in that way, and the attachment system is, I would argue in this case, hijacked
for religious purposes. It evokes it, and we'll talk about one of the ways it gets supercharged
at a chemical level, religious rituals. That's one function of religious rituals,
is they supercharge this byproduct that is religion. I want to talk here just for a minute about
byproducts, cultural byproducts, and mismatch theory, because the religion, the fundamental
psychology of religion, is the same as the fundamental psychology of junk food. It's also
the same fundamental psychology as pornography, and people feel that I'm being offensive. No,
I'm being descriptive, and what I hope to show you is accurate description. So what is junk food?
All of us have cravings for sugar, but sugar, the original sugar that we have cravings for,
ripe fruit. Ripe fruit was a crucial source of calories, and vitamin C, and it was scarce.
We had cravings for it, so whenever we had the opportunity, we ate it. What does a modern
world give us? The modern world gives us sugar, refined sugar, Coca-Cola, brownies, cookies,
and it's a supernormal stimulus, meaning when I eat a peach, it's pleasurable. I get a little hit
of dopamine. It's pleasurable. When I eat a brownie, bam, I get a big hit of dopamine. It is really
nice, and I don't know about you all, but if I know there's a brownie downstairs and a peach,
which one am I going to wake up in the middle of the night and go get? A peach or a brownie?
Obviously the brownie, because it's a supernormal stimulus that maps onto or hijacks an ancient
mechanism. All of us have cravings for fat, but it was the fat of lean game meat, and it was rare.
It was a crucial source of proteins, a crucial source of calories, but it was rare.
In the modern world, we have this massively fat-laden meat that we can get every day,
and it hijacks, do I want lean game meat from a rabbit or do I want the juicy steak?
No choice there. I'm going to go for the steak, because it hijacks that ancient system with a
supernormal stimuli. We all have cravings for salt. The Big Mac meal, the French fries have got salt,
and they're soaked in meat juice. You can see, I hope, that a Big Mac meal is a monument to your
Stone Age inheritance. It is a cultural creation of the modern world, and it hijacks, is based on,
and hijacks, these ancient mechanisms, but hijacks them with supernormal stimuli.
What's God? God, most gods in most religions, are supernormal caretakers. They're supernormal
attachment figures. God the Father. He's a more powerful father than our every day,
ordinary fathers, but he's a powerful attachment figure that we reach up to.
So, and if you think about pornography, pornography comes from males' sexual biases.
Males are drawn to markers of youth, fertility, and pornography gives it to us in supernormal stimuli.
I love this slide. Somebody sent it to me.
Now, this one is crucial, and it goes into our sense of an afterlife, for instance.
We have something called decoupled cognition, and these are fancy terms for, I hope you will see,
every ordinary, every day, ordinary mechanisms that you've been using the whole time you've
listened to this. So, what is decoupled cognition? We can decouple our cognition in time and place,
as hard as you may have been working listening to me. I will guarantee you that while you've
been listening to me, there have been moments where you have remembered a conversation with
somebody else, or you're thinking about a conversation you're going to have to have
with somebody else, right? So, we can decouple from the present moment, go to the past,
we can go to the future, we can go to a different place. Right now, I could ask all of you to
imagine in your head a conversation with President Biden. You can do it just like that.
You'll notice at the beginning of my talk, I said, you know, if you were to run into Mr.
Jefferson next week, and not one of you listening to this talk said, wait a second,
you know, that that's impossible. You sort of knew it was impossible, but you could imagine,
you know, right now, running into Mr. Jefferson and having a conversation with him.
Decouple from this moment in time and this place, wherever you're sitting right now,
and you can go to another time and another place and have a complicated social interaction,
a conversation with President Biden would be complicated, right? And you could also,
you could ask President Biden for something and promise him something in return, reciprocity,
another one of our mechanisms. What's prayer? Dear God, I will do this for you, if you will do this
for me, you know, if you will save, if you will save so and so, I will donate to your works,
right? A complicated social interaction in a different place at a different time with an
unseen other, but the standard, you know, complicated conversation. So that's one aspect of decoupled
cognition. The other part is the decoupling between how we experience thoughts and feelings,
our mind, and how we experience our body. Now, I want to illustrate this, this way.
Imagine that this is your brain, right? Okay, so this is, this is your brain right here.
This is the frontal lobe of your brain, right here. Okay, now we're going to cut it in half,
and this is the medial, what's called the medial, the midline of your brain, right? And this middle
of your brain right here, right? This is in the midline is where you experience your own thoughts
and feelings, and where you experience other people's thoughts and feelings. What the slide
shows you, all those dots are in the midline, midline of the frontal lobe, and that's where you
have self-knowledge, where you're thinking about other people's minds, your own mind,
mentalizing, that's basically think mind and everything that goes into mind, medial, frontal
lobe. Now, the outside of your brain, so here's our, here's our right hemisphere, right half of our
brain. Okay, the outward layers, particularly here in the frontal motor strips, this is where
we perceive our bodies and other people's bodies. So anything that has to do with bodies
is separate from what has to do with mind. Mind and body are separated in our brain's
perception of it. It's called decoupled cognition, cognition meaning obviously awareness,
so the awareness of mind, my own mind, your mind, the awareness of my own body, your body,
decoupled in different areas of the brain. And again, you can ask, well Andy, why are you going
through all this, right? Because this is crucial, that dualism, we thought mind and body, mind and
brain are separate, they're not. The brain represents minds and bodies in separate neural
systems, separate neural circuits. So we experience and believe minds and bodies are separate categories.
Despite clear evidence of the contrary, my brain, if it's damaged, I lose both awareness of mind
and body, right? But our experience, our moment to moment daily experience is that they are separate.
So think about, let's flip it for a second. So think about if I had to have Derek in front of me
to think about what is going on in his mind, to wonder what he wants, what he would like in this
presentation, what his questions might be. If I had to have Derek sitting literally in front of me,
you know, that would be, that would be very difficult. But even before meeting Derek,
I can think about what he might want. And so I hope you can see that a belief, just an operating
belief in some form of life, separate from the experience of a body, that's just our basic
day to day, you know, setting of our brain. That's the default setting of our brain is the split
between mind and body. So I'm getting to the age where many of those near and dear to me have died.
I can still have conversations with them in my head, as I will occasionally do.
For a moment, think about it. Think about somebody who you have loved deeply,
loved deeply, who is now deceased, who's passed. And I ask you to call up a conversation with them.
I can do it. You can do it instantly. Instantly, you can have a conversation with somebody
who's gone. If you think about it, that's just one small step to ancestor worship.
Wow, that's true.
And it's just, it's not, if you can see, I hope that it's not very hard to imagine a God, a man,
or a woman, but obviously, God's have mostly been men. You can imagine a God, a man,
who's out there, who has a mind of his own, who you can communicate with or propitiate or submit to.
And you can see that it's actually just one small step from the mechanism I asked you to use in
talking to Mr. Jefferson or talking to President Byte or talking to the person who you have lost.
I think it's interesting that I had this conversation yesterday with Dr. Robert Price,
who's also an atheist, of course. And I said, it's amazing what theists have done, of course,
is when the arguments and the evidence becomes clear and we have a natural explanation for
things, they always step up that level to try and compete with the natural view. And so right now,
I think the most, I guess you'd say, the best argument for theism that I've heard, for example,
is that, well, we have minds and that we have intelligence. To some degree, we can, we can,
you know, we have a coordination of the world and reality around us. The world around us has
pattern in some form of structure, even though there's chaos at the same time. Therefore,
there must be a mind like us. One step further, we have a mind, so there must be a mind. And
that's like the best argument, not labeling what religion or whatnot. But I can see how we would
easily concoct the idea without necessarily having any evidence for it. We just have to say, well,
there's patterns and things seem to measure in certain ways with certain laws of nature.
Therefore, there's got to be a mind behind those laws that create the, you see where I'm going.
And exactly. And it's just one small step from what we're doing all the time.
There's a conflict going on in my job at the Student Health Service. There are three different
people involved. And, you know, I can instantly right now think of the various things going on in
those three people's minds and the potential arguments about one particular patient. And I,
you know, it's a very detailed, complicated thing between actually, you know, three different minds.
They're not here right now. And I can decouple myself right now from this place and this time and
think about what they're thinking and what they're going to be thinking next week when there's a
meeting on Monday about it and how it's going to affect me. And those are multiple minds operating
on very specific, complicated issues. And we do that all the time. And the people who
eventually watch this, if they'll step back for a moment, hit pause and think about while they were
listening, just every now and then, my guess is they went to a complicated conversation with somebody
that they've got to have this week or next week or remembering a conversation in order to think
about a conversation next week. And we just take this for granted. But these are things that
evolved over evolutionary time. And we don't have a good time sense. We can sort of imagine our
grandparents' generation, but it's just impossible to get our minds around, you know, our ancient
ancestors. And these capacities took a long time to evolve and become automatic. And we just take
them for granted. But they're actually extremely complex. I think one of the problems in artificial
intelligence is they've yet to be able to fully program something that can do all of what our
minds can do. Again, why this is important is this obviously leads very easily to a belief in the
afterlife. This is from a grave in what is today Israel. And it's a young adolescent who died and
buried. And clearly they thought he was going to the afterlife somewhere. They put some animal
horns with him. And our species and Neanderthals' gravesites had things in them that indicated
people believed that they were going someplace else. And I hope you can see that it's very easily,
it conceived of. We can very easily think of another place that's populated by
minds, that the idea of an afterlife is very easy. And one of the other reasons is the mechanism for
thinking about other people's minds never really turns off. I know my parents are dead.
I know their bodies are dead. But, you know, the mechanisms for thinking about their minds
never turns off. So I can easily have a conversation with them. It's very easy to think of them being
alive in another place. This is the modern version of belief in heaven.
Pop-up is now in the clouds, sweetheart. Yep, it's Sky Daddy. Yeah. So you can see
how easy it is for human minds to conceive of an afterlife, a heaven, a place, a place that's
populated by people we know and love. Something else that's important to religion is our ability to
just fill in the blanks. We see this as a square, but if you look closely, there's no line for the
square. But we see the square. We just fill in the blanks. And this goes into a phenomenon called
minimally counterintuitive worlds, MCIs. We fill in the blanks. What does this mean?
If you think about a big old oak tree that is somewhere in your community,
and I tell you that that big old oak tree can do your taxes, can reprogram your computer,
can play chess with you, you're simply not going to believe it. It's just too many violations of
tree-ness. It's just completely off the charts. But if I tell you that that tree on the night
of a full moon can hear your request, hear your prayer,
all of us are vulnerable to believe that. Because there's just one small violation of tree-ness,
and that small violation is a basic human capacity, listening to a request. And all of us are vulnerable
to believe that. And this is true of all supernatural beliefs. They are called MCIs,
minimally counterintuitive worlds. And it's because there is something attention-arresting,
something memorable. Because there's just something we're deeply familiar with,
but one small twist that is something human. And it's this sort of optimal compromise between
something that's interesting, but everything that is expected. And MCIs are crucial to
religious beliefs. Let's take something before we get to religious beliefs. One of my favorite
movies of all time, really, and certainly as a child, was The Wizard of Oz. And that's a magical
movie for most people who see it. If you haven't seen it, I strongly encourage it. It's a wonderful
movie. And its power comes from the, in a sense, supernatural agents, are basically just men
with one slight twist. The scarecrow, he's looking for a brain. The cowardly lion is looking for courage.
And the tin man is looking for a heart. But otherwise, they're just men. And everything
about men, you just fill in the blanks. And you don't question. But there's just one slight twist
on something that is human, and it's memorable. It's attention-arresting. And clearly, they've
got a great attachment system. Dorothy becomes attached to them. They're looking for the Wizard
of Oz, a father. The supernatural templates in The Wizard of Oz are very powerful. But they're all
these MCIs. And that's true of any fairy tale that we remember, and any fairy tale that is religion.
So there are a counterintuitive physical property. So, you know, God is everywhere. He's still a guy,
but he's everywhere. Right? Or there's one slight counterintuitive piece of biology.
The Virgin Mary was a virgin. She conceived a very natural human phenomena. She was a virgin.
One small twist. There's a counterintuitive psychology. Now, think about it. The Christian
God knows what I'm thinking. Right? Knows whether I've been naughty or nice. He knows
what I'm thinking. But if he knows what I'm thinking, if he knows what I'm thinking,
why do I still have to pray to them? Why do I have to have a normal human conversation?
So there's just this one little twist that's attention-arresting, but still everything about
humans and human mental states and ordinary human capacities is still there. They're just
taken for granted. We don't even think about them. The poet, Shelley, I think put it well. I'll let
you all read it. There is no attribute of God, which is not either borrowed from the passions
and powers of the human mind or which is not a negation. So, you know, religions always have some
piece of human mental state embedded in it. You know, some little twist, but all the fundamentals
of human emotional states, mental states are there. Now, what I've done so far is just,
I hope, give you a taste. That's just a taste for the everyday, ordinary, cognitive mechanisms
that we use to be the extraordinary social species that we are. Those mechanisms go into
religious belief. Religious belief, like reading and writing, is this cultural creation. It's a
byproduct of these mechanisms. They arise from these mechanisms, and then there's a cultural
creation that comes back at those mechanisms in a supernormal way that really triggers strong
feeling, their attention-arresting, their memorable, and they hijack those systems.
My attachment system is hijacked to be, you know, connected to a God or to Jesus or the
Virgin Mary. What I want to do now, I've shown you, I hope, some of those mechanisms. There are
others, theory of mind mechanisms, hyperactive agency detection mechanisms, and this is why
religion is so powerful because there's a list of at least 20 different mechanisms.
Every ordinary day, cognitive mechanisms that go into religion, that religion creates a cultural
narrative about, can they come back with supernormal stimuli? That's the cognitive mechanism. Now,
how do those supernormal stimuli get supercharged? You know, how do you put high-octane fuel
into those mechanisms? And that's what I want to turn to next in the last part of the talk,
which is about religious ritual. And religious ritual, religion comes from relegary to bind,
and religious ritual intensifies that bonding and other things.
One of the, to me, interesting things, and part of why I went over human evolution, is that
Nicholas Wade, the New York Times, former New York Times religion, I'm sorry, former New
York Times science editor, wrote a very interesting book called The Faith Instinct, and he makes a
very powerful case that we see the original religion. We see the original religion in human
beings. We can see what it is, and then we can see the echoes in modern-day religions.
And he points out that the Kung San of Africa, the Kung San live on the southeast coast of Africa,
it's thought to be a window into deep history. This is a window into the environment that shaped
us that we evolved in. So the Kung San's religion, and this is just, you know, shows you one of
their ritual. The Kung San, southeast coast of Africa, the Andaman Islands, and I meant to point
it out when I was showing the map of where we went, look up Andaman Islands, they're off of the
east coast of India. And the Andaman Islands have tribes that basically were untouched. So the 19th
century and remain largely untouched to this day, now protected by the Indian government.
And so the Andaman Islands were probably settled 60,000 years ago. The Andaman Islanders and the
Aborigines of Australia. And Australia was the Aborigines settled there about 60,000 years ago.
Now, what's important about that is that the religions of the Kung San, the Andaman Islands,
and the Aborigines are almost identical. And Wade argues that why that is the case
is because we are seeing the original religion of Homo sapiens, that Homo sapiens had in Africa
when they left Africa and started to move around the world. They took it with them. And we still see
it in close to pure form in the Kung San, the Andaman Islanders, and the Aborigines. And as I'll
show you, I hope, even echoes of it in modern day Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Buddhism.
What is that first religion? That first religion is largely based on song and dance.
There are no priests or ecclesiastical hierarchy. One of the things that religion does is it puts
everybody on the same level. It's the entire community. So any distinction by rank or social
hierarchy is temporarily moved to the side. And it is centered on constant rhythmic physical
activity, song and dance. Why? And here's the reason. Unbeknownst to them, our ancestors
utilized neurotransmitters in our brain that are very, very powerful. Serotonin in the upper left,
serotonin is the oldest monoamine neurotransmitters. The monoamine neurotransmitters are serotonin,
dopamine, norepinephrine. Serotonin, when you go out and exercise, you get boosts in serotonin.
Prozac, our modern antidepressants, boosts serotonin. When you get a boost of serotonin,
what are the things that happen? Your self-esteem improves, one thing. You get a boost in serotonin.
Your focus goes outward from inward. So you feel better about yourself and you're more
outwardly focused. Serotonin is also involved in complicated thinking, norepinephrine. That's
adrenaline. Obviously, adrenaline really turns on our... Think about when you get really excited.
Your antenna, they get really wired. You get excited. That's norepinephrine, adrenaline.
Dopamine. What's dopamine? Dopamine is the pleasure chemical. When you eat that brownie,
you get a big hit of dopamine. But everybody tends to think of it as just the pleasure chemical.
I want to change your mind here. Dopamine is much more powerful. Dopamine is what goes into
focus, attention, motivation, concentration. Dopamine and norepinephrine are crucial with
marking things as important to go into our memory. So the things that you remember from this talk
today have been charged with dopamine and norepinephrine. So that they are boosted in physical
activity. Oxytocin. Everybody's probably heard of oxytocin. Oxytocin is the trust hormone.
And one of the things we'll talk about is just wanted touch triggers oxytocin. But the boosted
oxytocin trust. Endorphins. Everybody's probably heard of endorphins. These are our own internal
morphine. So they help blunt pain. And the runner's high is part endorphin. But endorphins
main mechanism, or not the main mechanism, but probably its main importance is endorphins are
involved in bonding, probably more so than oxytocin. And what our ancestors literally stumbled into
were mechanisms that boosted all these neurotransmitters at once to create intense group bonding.
Music. Now when we listen to music, but when we make music, when we sing, when we make music,
we boost endorphins. This is Darwin's statement about music. I'll let you all read it.
I conclude that musical notes and rhythm were first acquired by the male or female progenitors
of mankind for the sake of charming the opposite sex. The musical tones became firmly associated
with some of the strongest passions and animals capable of filling Darwin, the descent of man.
And think of love songs. So much of music is for romance, but music also is for bonding.
And when we make music, we are triggering that endorphin system.
It reminds me of animals that make a calling with certain noises. They purposely
heighten their tones or whatever it might be. It's got this release of something,
I suspect that draws in the opposite sex. Yeah, their courtship. Absolutely. And it's
triggering endorphins. It's triggering bonding. This is one of my favorite experiments.
Again, to show you what is at the base of religious rituals. So there's a group in England,
and they did this experiment. How many of you have been to a gym or you have it in your home,
a rowing machine and ergonometer. And I hope everybody knows what that is. These are rowing
indoor rowing machines. So what they did was the following. They put people together, like the four
people in the upper picture, they put people together rowing, right? And they also had people
rowing solo just by themselves on an on an ergonometer. And so they take the person that's
rowing solo on the ergonometer. And because you can measure work output, they they measure work
output on the ergonometer. And then they measure pain threshold, you can you can you can get accurate
measures of people's pain thresholds using blood pressure cuffs. And so you're on an
ergonometer, your row set work output, you measure your pain threshold. Then the person is put with
other people, and they're rowing synchronously, right? And they can control for work output. So
they know it's the same level of work output that they had when they were rowing single,
they're rowing, you know, together. And then they measure pain threshold, same work output.
But what happens when they measure pain threshold, the pain threshold is gone up.
They don't feel as much pain. Same work output, but they're doing it synchronously with others.
Just synchronous movement with other people, and you're getting a hit of endorphins. Your pain
threshold goes up. Increased endorphins, increased bonding. Beautiful experiment.
Oh, one other experiment. If imagine for a moment that we're all actually in an auditorium,
there's 200 people in the auditorium, and we randomly divide the 200 people into two groups.
And one of the groups is just asked to walk around the building three times. So the other group
is asked to walk around the building three times, but to walk in lockstep, like soldiers marching,
right? And they're going to walk in lockstep three times around the building. Other group just
walk around the building. Then they bring them back and they have each group play what are called
economic trust games that measure how quickly you trust other people. What happens? Okay. And the
only difference is marching synchronously. The group that marks synchronously, they trust each
other much better, much quicker. And all they're doing, they're in other words, they are more
bonded. You know, they're more bonded, they trust each other, they're bonded better than the other
group. One of the other unfortunate aspects of this is that the groups, they instantly think
that they're better than the other group. These people that met before most of them,
they're just randomly divided into two groups. And it becomes us against them. But the group
that has done synchronous movement, they trust each other more. So we're talking a group, we're
talking music, we're talking singing, making music, trigger all those neurotransmitters,
and we're talking about synchronous movement, you know, synchronous movement, enhancing bonding,
then touch. And touch, we now know, is much more powerful than we ever imagined.
When you have wanted touch, let's say for a moment, one of my close buddies comes in here,
and he just puts his hand on my shoulder. So he does, just puts his hand on my shoulder.
I'm going to get a hit of endorphins and oxytocin. My frontal lobes are going to relax a little bit.
It's a powerful experiment. We're not aware of it. Just that little touch on my shoulder
is going to trigger that. One of the most interesting experiments was actually done by
a researcher here at University of Virginia, Jim Connell. And he puts a woman in a scanning machine.
So she's in a scanning machine. She gets shown a threat scenario. The part of her brain, the fear
part of her brain, the amygdala, lights up. Next, she's in a scanning machine, and she's holding
the hand of a stranger, somebody she's not met. She's just holding the hand of the stranger,
shown a threat scenario. Her amygdala lights up, but not as much. She's just holding the
hand of a stranger. Still lights up, but not as much. Then, third experiment, she is holding the
hand of her partner, shown a threat scenario. Amygdala barely lights up. Holding the hand of
her partner, where it's even more interesting, is that the degree to which her amygdala does not
light up. In other words, the calm or she is in the face of threat, the calm or she is
tracks with her rating of the quality of her relationship with her partner. So if she rates
it as a very good relationship, it lights up the least. Now, very powerful evidence that touch
impacts our brain, impacts our bonding, impacts how we respond to threat, even. Again, it's probably
endorphins, oxytocin. So, what is song and dance? Song is making music, endorphins, dopamine, serotonin,
dance, physical movement. Again, endorphins, oxytocin, particularly with physical movement, serotonin, dopamine,
norepinephrine, and touch, endorphins, oxytocin. You've probably heard of mirror neurons. Mirror
neurons work this way. So, you're sitting there watching me right now. I'm going to raise my
right hand. I raise my right hand. An area on my left motor strip lights up.
Lights up. You're watching this. You're not raising your right hand, but watching this,
the same area in your brain lights up. Other parts of your frontal lobe are suppressing it,
but the area that would light up if you lifted your right hand is going to light up. People who
have frontal lobe damage, if I lift my hand, even if they don't want to, they'll lift theirs.
These are mirror neurons. So, I see somebody who's in pain.
I've got, I see somebody who's got a cut on their hand, right? And so, they've got a cut there on
their left hand. This sensory area for my left hand lights up as well. We literally feel each
other's pain. We have to learn to desensitize ourselves, not to. But mirror neurons are very
powerful. So, you can feel like, you know, I don't want any part of that ritual,
but it is still going to, it's still going to impact you. You know, you may, you know,
stand there with your arms crossed, you know, watching some religious ritual, but it's still
getting to you. You know, you see a wave in a stadium, right? You don't want to participate,
but it's still impacting you, if you were doing the wave.
This is one of my favorite illustrations. For those of you who remember, in 2012,
former President Clinton gave the nominating speech for then President Obama.
And Clinton finishes his speech. And then, to the surprise of the audience, President Obama walks
out. Clinton sort of bows, an act of submission, sort of bows. And then the two men embrace,
and Obama is rubbing Clinton's back like crazy. And you can see a tear in Bill Clinton's eye.
Very powerful moment. What most people in the audience don't know is that these two men hated
each other. There's an article in the New Yorker magazine that details it. These two men absolutely
hated each other. And there was, you know, because Obama had beaten Hillary Clinton in 2008
in the primaries, but they hated each other. And it was like the Middle East peace accords,
getting these two men back together. Clinton agreed to do the talk, the nominating speech.
And it was a powerful speech, wonderful speech. And then the two men embrace. These are two men
who absolutely hated each other. And what you see, you see Obama, you know,
stroking his back. There's hugging. There's touching. There's powerful endorphin and oxytocin
release at this moment. If you remember it, if you happen to see it, which I did, you could not,
you could not, not be moved. Even if you didn't like either man. It was a very powerful moment.
I found myself welling up, right? That's mirror neurons. You know, I'm not on the stage at the
Democratic Convention. I'm nowhere near it, right? I'm not involved. I'm just watching it. And it's,
it's very powerful. So those are mirror neurons. Right. So we have, we have song, dance, physical
movement, symmetrical movement, mirror neurons. Why is this important? Because these are the things
that go into religious ritual. What do these rituals do? Remember, we have very important,
close group living. Imagine if you were living in a small hunter-gatherer group of 100 people in
harsh environments, and you have got to be, you've got to get along with everybody. Well,
they're going to be freeloaders. You've got to find out who those people are. Rituals may expose
their rituals of punishment. You do have to punish offenders, but you're still mutually
interdependent. You want to keep them in the group. You want to punish them, but keep them in the
group. Rituals are a way of commitment, signaling commitment to the group. If you're not doing the
ritual, you're signaling that you're not committed to the group. So you do the ritual and whether
you like it or not, you know, you get those same chemicals. Courtship, you know, there's a lot of,
you know, you saw in that Kung San, the women are in the center and they're checking out the guys,
you know, who's committed to the group. It is also courtship involved, even in religious rituals.
You have to ease communal conflict. We come together for rituals when we want to defend
territory. Rituals are a way of signaling our quality and identity of a group and it has to
prepare men for war. Think of all the rituals. Think of the rituals that the football teams went
through before the Super Bowl. I don't know how many of you saw the opening ceremonies at
the Beijing Olympics in 2008. Those were downright frightening, I thought. I mean,
Chinese were signaling that, you know, we're in the modern world now and we are serious. Go back
and look at the 2008 opening ceremonies at the Olympics. Unbelievable. So religious rituals
and group or group rituals, they enhance bonding and they do all these other things and they do it
with the neurotransmitters. Now, one of my favorites here is you remember that
the Pentecostals. Anybody know why pews were put in Christian churches in the 14th century?
I have no idea. It's because the political leadership is trying to take over religion.
Right? And pews were put in Christian churches originally to stop the dancing,
you know, trying to control the group a little bit more. They literally look up the origin of
those uncomfortable pews that we sat on for all those years. You know, I was brought up in the
Presbyterian church. God's frozen people and all those hard pews. Pews were originally put in
Christian churches, I think in the 14th century to stop the dancing. What did people do? They just
moved the dancing to Saturday night, you know, Carnival. But this is religious, this is what
goes into religious ritual and you see this in the Kung San, the Andaman Islanders and the
Aborigines. It's a window into deep time. It's a window into those original rituals. Imagine
doing those kind of rituals eight or 12 hours. Right? It's huge.
And, you know, again, ancient cave paintings. The ancient cave paintings are always of people
together. You don't see, you know, one person, you know, sitting down with a cup of coffee.
Now, let me encourage you to try this. If you're even with just one other person while you're
watching this, just hit the pause button and let me give you a little experiment that you can do
at home. And this is an experiment I do with audiences when I have the audience in front of
me for the talk. What I want you to do is three things to start with. First of all,
I want you to just think about how you're feeling. Just what's your mood? How are you feeling today?
Just, you know, take a mind's eye of that. Number one. Number two, think of somebody you care about.
But somebody where there's a pretty bad conflict right now between you and this person that you
care about. And just think about how right now you feel about that person.
Okay, the third thing I'd like you to do is to take the back of your hand,
the skin on the back of your hand, and just pinch it as hard as you can. Try to create as
much pain as you can. Just, you know, really crunch down on it, right? Just really get the
sense of where that pain is. Do those three things. Now, if you've got somebody there with you,
you know, hopefully maybe a couple people there with you, but it's the pandemic,
just even if it's one person, like you to stand up, stand up and put your arm around the person.
Everybody's got their arm around each other, right? So I'm going to imagine that Derek is right here,
right? So Derek is right next to me. We've got our arms around each other, right? And we're going to
start swaying. You know, just sway symmetrically, rhythmically, we're going to get a good sway
going, right? Get a good sway going here, right? Then I want you to sing out loud as loud as you
can. You know, a couple verses of happy birthday. If it's not your birthday, maybe happy birthday to
Charles Garland. But just belt out a couple of verses of happy birthday, right? So what are we
doing? We're doing symmetrical movement. We're doing touch, right? Okay. And then we're making music,
right? Symmetrical movement, touch, making music, stimulating all those neurotransmitters.
So maybe do just a couple verses of happy birthday, right? And you do that. And I appreciate I'm
making you self-conscious, but I'd encourage you try to do this ritual. Okay, try to just do this.
Trust me. Then what I want you to do after you've done it, and your self-consciousness is quieted
down for a minute, then pinch your skin. See if you can make it hurt as much. My prediction is you
can't. No matter how hard you try, you're not going to hurt as much because you boosted those
endorphins. Then I want you to think about that person that you're in conflict with and how you
feel about it. And again, my prediction would be that it'll be harder to generate the same level
of frustration or anger you might be feeling towards that person at the moment. Then the third
thing we're doing in reverse order would be to just think about how you're feeling if you notice
any change in your emotional state. And again, my prediction would be if you can get away from the
self-consciousness of having done it, that you'll notice that you're just feeling a little bit
better, a little bit more energetic. You just feel better, right? Those are the fundamental
elements of religious ritual. Imagine doing that in the savannas of Africa for the Outback of
Australia for eight, 12 hours, like these people do. Think of that intent. I mean, it would be
impossible. No matter how you're feeling about the group, it would be impossible not to have
triggered massive outlines of those neurotransmitters and hormones and have the changes that I've
described. Now, let me tell you something that I sometimes do, is that I will put slides together
that have all the verses of Amazing Grace. And I'll have an audience do the swaying and
do the touching, and then I will ask them to sing. And these are audiences of atheists.
These are audiences of atheists, right? And I will ask them to sing something, Amazing Grace,
the content of which goes against their beliefs, right? Absolutely goes against their beliefs,
right? And I'll have them sing four verses of Amazing Grace. And even though it's against their
beliefs, most of the people get the same boost that I've described. It's posted on the internet,
but I did a talk in Israel, specifically on ritual. And I had one of the rabbis there who
invited me to have everybody sing a particular song. And you can see the audience doing this.
And you can also see that they're people in the audience who feel too self-conscious to do it.
And because of mirror neurons and the fact that they're surrounded by all their friends doing
this, they're getting that same tip. It was a fascinating experience. It is one of the most
interesting trips and meetings that I've been to because this was at a religious school. People
there were largely religious. In fact, the person that invited me was a rabbi to talk about a ritual.
All right, now, this is a place in Eastern Turkey that's important. If you look it up,
Gobekli Tepe. Why am I showing this? Here's the reason. The standard view used to be that
we were hunter-gatherers, then we settled into agricultural communities, then we developed
religion. And that used to be the traditional view, or a group religion, a widespread group
religion. That was the standard view. Gobekli Tepe demonstrates that while we were still hunter-gatherers,
we came to this area where we built some stone monuments and we held religious rituals and
religious feasts while we were still hunter-gatherers. And so it has flipped things around. So people
while still in Paleolithic, Neolithic times, still living as hunter-gatherers would come
together for these religious rituals. What's interesting is that they also took wild barley
and brewed beer. And this is some of the evidence of it that they took wild barley and brewed beer.
Now why? Because one of the reasons that we drink alcohol is that when we drink alcohol,
the neurotransmitter that gets triggered endorphins, bonding. Alcohol hits these new opioid
receptors in our brain that are involved with endorphins that create bonding. So it reduces
suspicion, reduces anxiety. Think about when you drink, you feel closer to other people,
you open up, there's greater bonding. So when we moved from hunter-gatherers to more settled
communities, we used religion to bring groups together, to bond them. And it was probably
song, you know, dance, touch, rhythmic movement, and alcohol. And they think one of the reasons we
may have settled down into agricultural communities is to brew better beer. The original bread was
not for eating, it was to hold the barley used for beer. And so your Southern Baptist friends
who won't dance and won't drink, you can tell them they're being anti-religious.
They're going against the grain. And this is one of the stones from Gobekli Tepe, and you can see
the figures touching and dancing. Next time you see this, I want you to see it differently.
These are obviously Islamic men gathering for prayer. And I want you to see this a little
differently, because I hope if I've done my work well this morning, you can see that this has
all the elements of ancient religion, of our original religion. These men are moving symmetrically.
This is a dance. They're moving physical activity. They're moving symmetrically.
Okay, they're huddled together. There's touch. And I don't know if you've ever heard the Muslim
chants. They're actually quite beautiful, regardless of what you think of Islam. They're
beautiful. It's a closed space. This is a dance. Now, it's a dance with all the elements,
all the echoes of the original religion. Song, dance, trance, all there.
We think of Buddhists as, you know, in red monks, in red guard sitting. This is a Buddhist ceremony.
And again, it is making music. It's a song. It is dance. It's symmetrical movement.
And just watching it, you'll feel it. Think of the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem.
The men standing by the Wailing Wall, they're moving symmetrically. It's a dance.
They're crowded together. They're touching. It's symmetrical movement. And they are reciting out
loud. They're making music. Again, you see, I hope, all the elements of the original religion.
And of course, you know, Christian churches, the singing, and obviously,
as much as the pews have tried to inhibit dancing, you know, particularly, I love African American
churches. You see the dancing. You see, again, I hope, all the echoes, all the remnants of the
original religion of human beings, of homo sapiens, and all the mechanisms that are used to trigger
these neurotransmitters and neuro hormones that create an intense emotional experience and intense
bonding. That brings me to the conclusion. And I love this cartoon. And it says,
I wish you would make up your mind, Mr. Dickens. Was it the best of times or was it the worst of
times? It could scarcely have been both. And that was, of course, Dickens famous line. It's the best
of times. It's the worst of times. And what I want to end with is this, that I think Mr. Dickens was
right, that it is the worst of times, yet it is also the best of times. It's the worst of times
in that all you have to do is turn on a television. All you have to do is pick up a newspaper. And you
can see how religion still poisons so much of life on earth. And it really, I think, constitutes
one of the main barriers to a global civil society. I just, I think there's no way if you're
an honest observer of human life, if you suddenly arrive from Mars, you would notice
these religions, the religious differences, the religious warfare. And I think it doesn't take
much to conclude that one of the still terrible barriers to a global civil society is religion.
As Christopher Hitchens said, it poisons everything. Yet, if I've done my work well this morning,
I hope I have shown you it is also the best of times. Why do I say that? It is the best of times
because we, we are the first generation in the history of the world. We are the first generation
that now understands how and why human minds generate religious beliefs, where they come from,
their structure, their power, you know, why they, why they hold such a grip on us. We now are really
getting close to a comprehensive psychological science of religious belief. And so that's why I
think it's also the best of times. And so I think it leaves us with basically three questions.
What am I going to do with this knowledge? Number one, number two, what are you going to do
with this knowledge that is now out there? But most importantly, what are we as democratic,
scientifically literate societies going to do with this knowledge for future generations?
Thank you very much. Wow. Thank you. That was, that was highly educational and obviously brings
up so many points. I have to say one of the interesting things that you said about
Glabecki Tepe that I find interesting about being a hunter-gatherer and having these giant
stones that we know they put serious efforts into. A lot of people want to dispute this, but
that whole idea of Glabecki Tepe, like what's going on, where we already a complete agricultural
society or is there still hunter-gatherers? Well, we have evidence for us being hunter-gatherers.
How could we be both or whatever? I was looking at a video that you sent me the other night about
evolution and bipedalism. And when did it start? When did humans, or if you will,
when did our ancestors go from walking on all fours to going on two legs? And a lot of people
think, well, at one point we were all fours and then we just came down out of the trees and we
started trying to slowly, gradually upright. And they're actually suggesting bipedalism
actually developed while we were in the trees. And it was a gradual evolution which made sense
once we came down. We were able to upright walk and do what we wanted to do. That really makes
me think like Glabecki Tepe didn't need to have to be an agricultural society. You could have had
kind of a development taking place. There's an evolution, what we call a missing link.
Here's the link. There's kind of a strange link being filled in here. I just have to say first,
before I even ask any question, thank you for this presentation. I hope anyone who watches
this gets the book, reads it, because it goes into all of the what you called agencies and
it goes in depth into many of these agencies that we naturally use that actually unknowingly are
where we come up with beliefs and ideas that we hold that have no evidence based
in why we believe them. We take that leap of faith, so to speak.
Well, if I may, that's another piece of our evolutionary legacy and our cognitive mechanisms
is that it actually would be advantageous for me to believe you and not question you.
Right? I mean, if you tell me there's a tiger coming or there's marauders over the hill,
wouldn't it be wise for me just to automatically believe you and get moving with you? It would
not be useful if I said, well, just a second, Derek, I need to have empirical evidence of the
approach of marauders or I need empirical evidence. One of the things that, again,
one of the legacies of our evolution and one of the legacies of our group cohesiveness is the
readiness to believe particularly authorities. We're far more deferential to authority than any of
us would care to believe and it seems kind of nuts on the surface, but if you again go back
to the environment that we evolved in, I'm more likely to survive. If you tell me,
marauders are coming and I say, thanks, and I get the hell out of here with you just as fast.
And so the doubt muscle, the skeptical muscle in our brain is something that we all have to
work on and it really takes effort to stop and say, show me the evidence.
That is a great point. Oh, I apologize. No, no, no, no, just it takes a lot of cognitive
effort for me to say, wait a second, Derek, show me the evidence because we're much more trusting
because it has a survival advantage and we're particularly trusting of authorities. And so
if an authority tells me something, an authority tells me something that's one of those MCIs,
if an authority tells me that the tree across from UVA's rotunda will listen to my prayers
at night and I'm a child and an authority is telling me this, I'm going to be prone to believe
them. It's going to take some questioning. That happens often. I'll hear theists who are debating
with atheists about the ideas of God, supernatural things. And one of the things they say is, well,
it comes natural to believe in God and that's because God wants us. Of course, this is their
argument and I know you know it. God put that in us to want to worship him and to follow him and
all that. Of course, you explain the natural explanations in this video. But we have an
uphill battle as skeptics, as rationalists, as atheist naturalists to say, look, we agree the
components there are there and the natural tendency to believe. Like you talk about,
you mentioned in passing and you didn't spend much time, which you spent a little bit of time
in your first presentation I ever saw, which has like well over a million views in the Dawkins
Foundation, which is obviously CFI, the Center for Inquiry. They work with Center Inquiry.
You talk about the hyperactive agency. You talk about a shadow. We never mistake a shadow for,
we mistake a shadow for a human, but we never mistake a human for a shadow. Like
these agencies that work into our thinking, it's like explaining that to someone and then accepting
that and thinking critically about that is what we're trying to do with God, the idea of God.
And that's difficult. Right. And that's why it's very hard to, and I think it's unwise,
probably, to try to argue somebody out of their beliefs because it just triggers defense mechanisms
because you're attacking their identity, their group identity, their family. You're attacking
all of these things. And so my tactic has changed to look, just go look at the evidence. Try to just
go read and just look at the evidence. Use your own critical analytic skills that you'd use if
you were trying to figure out how to fix something in your house. And just go and read the evidence
and see what you think. Because it's very hard, I think it's close. It's very hard to argue somebody
out of religious beliefs. And your illustration was good that the theists will say that it comes
naturally to us because God put it and made us so that we would easily believe. Whereas what's
going on is that religious belief comes naturally to us because it just utilizes
all the everyday mechanisms that make us human. And we're particularly vulnerable to the idea of
God putting it in us because it's an authority figure, just like my mother taught me by table
manners. You know, an authority figure, God is going to put something into us.
I think that makes so much sense because when you go down the theist route, you have to ask,
well, why do they believe in hundreds of gods? Or why are they ancestry worshippers? Or why
do they do this? Or why is there God like that? If God inherently put this in us to worship him
or it or whatever, which one is it? And how do we know? So the problem is on their fault.
They start with, well, why do we all kind of want to believe in things? The natural explanation
makes far better sense of why than concocting your God is the reason. And your God, the creator of
all, is the reason why. And then there's a lot of people that kind of like are more liberal and
they're thinking to go, well, God is they just go by different names and this and this and that.
But still the overarching creator, if they will, is is what's doing this. And I think what you've
done is really excellently showed it's one step further in our already natural abilities to come
up with these ideas. And can you give us another example of hyperactive agency other than the
shadow thing, something interesting? Certainly. Let me respond to your first good point.
Please. You brought up the thing of hundreds of God or one God. There's an excellent essay by
the neuroscientist Robert Sapolsky, who shows that your religious beliefs are very much affected by
your environment. And monotheistic religions arise from deserts and desert cultures. Polytheistic
multiple gods tend to come from rainforest areas rainforests. It's just a fabulous essay.
And he maps out the hows and why's that the environments influence your religious belief,
whether you're polytheistic or monotheistic has to do with its origins in desert environments
and desert cultures versus rain what he calls rainforest religions. Just wonderful.
An example, hyperactive agency detection. So we're sitting here right now.
And we hear a door slam. All of us are going to all of us are going to flinch.
Our bodies are going to start to go into fight flight mechanism. Blood is going to get shunted
away from my gut into my muscles. Stress hormones are starting to be released. I'm
turning on fight flight, boom, you know, just at the door slamming. And this is a hyperactive
agency detector. And I'm going to assume until proven otherwise that that door was slammed
by another human being. Okay. And until proven otherwise. And why do I have to do that? The
reason is just like the smoke detector in your house. The smoke detector in your house is going
to go off with boiling water. And it's going to make noises and you know, it's going to mobilize
with boiling water. That's an annoyance. If it does not go off when there's a fire,
you're potentially going to get killed. So a false positive boiling water,
it's a false positive. It's not a fire. It seems like a fire, but it's not. So it's a false
positive. A false positive is an inconvenience, right? A false negative, meaning, you know,
it's not the absence of a fire. There's a real fire there. And it's not going off. And it's
reading it as if there's no fire. That's a false negative. False negative is deadly. So
inconvenience, dead. So there's what's called an asymmetry of risk. Inconvenience and death
are not equal for a long shot. And so there's a huge asymmetry of risk. I really want to avoid
death at all costs. Boiling water, it's an annoyance. Huge asymmetry of risk. So
because our brains are not designed to make us happy. They're designed to keep us alive
and to reproduce. So there's an asymmetry of risk. So we have these hyperactive agency
detectors. So that I'm going to assume that door was a human being until things quiet down. And I
realize, no, it's the wind. So think of our ancestors, right? Our ancestors are on the
savannas of Africa. And and there's lightning. Lightning strikes the earth and turns a tree
on fire. Well, who the hell did that? You know, there must be somebody up there that is annoyed
with me. Right. I mean, how can you explain? And and and we overread intention. If you have
children, if you ask them, you know, what a rock is for, they're going to say that, well, the rock
is there so that squirrels can scratch themselves. Or what's the lake there for? Well, the lake is
there for fish to swim in or ducks to swim on top of, you know, that we overread intention.
And and so we overread intention, we overread agency. So, you know, it's very easy for our
ancestors to explain terrifying phenomena in the natural world as agency and intentional.
This is great. There's got to be an agent shooting down that lightning.
And that agent has to have some intention. What's the intention there? Well, the intention
is it to scare us? Is it to punish us? But we're going to we're going to interpret it as having
to do with us agency and intention. And we we override those we we overreact because it was
crucial to our survival. We not only overreact, we automatically assume agency like you say,
you know, and that's what's interesting is the bush it moved. We automatically assume it moved
because of something. And it was moving because either wind or an animal, most likely it's a
threat. It moved because it's a predator until proven otherwise. Right. An animal or human predator.
And that's natural. And it comes natural. And the same goes for lightning, earthquake,
thunder. It doesn't matter what it is. Right. And it's natural selection. The person that that
didn't think the the moving bush was a predator or a human predator. They didn't live long enough
to have children. The ones that so these are these are these are mechanisms that augmented our
survival and had us survive long enough to leave, you know, children, all of us are the descendants
of people who grew up on the savannahs who were, you know, who moved quickly if there was a moving
bush or, you know, a loud noise. I got two more questions and I didn't have
Look, I got all day. You guys, any questions that you want?
Well, I just have one about consciousness first off. And this is interesting when you were talking
about mind and body. And I know that when we get into we could lose track and get deep into a
physiological discussion. And, and, and, you know, if I had a lobotomy done to me, you know,
different things that we can get into. But I, you know, it wasn't long ago, Dr. Thompson, where I
believed that there's like a separate entity to me, I had a soul or spirit, and my body was
separate. And then when I died, I was going to hover over my body, like many near death experience,
people claim that they're hovering over their body and they're watching their body and all these
things. They're separate spirit or soul from the body. Some argue that soul is the body,
some want to play games with the term, whatever. But I now think, and I'm thinking naturally,
this doesn't mean I have all the answers of everything. I'm looking for an answer that,
since we can answer all of these previous things we once had a superstitious claim to,
naturally, I suspect there's a natural explanation for consciousness. And it's the brain. To me,
the brain is what produces this consciousness. They say, can you hear a tree fall in the forest
if you're not there? Or does a tree make noise when it falls in the forest and you're not there?
I suspect it does, but I'm not there. So I can't tell you that when the tree fell, it made noise
because I don't know. But the idea of consciousness and the brain, is there consciousness separate
from the brain? Well, you have it, you're conscious, but the idea gets into a superstitious realm.
Is there consciousness beyond the mind, beyond humans, that is out there in which we now have
consciousness because there was a primitive or prior or a presuppositional consciousness out
there at some point. And that gets into philosophy, which I'm not trying to lose track into. But
what are your thoughts on this whole thing of consciousness and mind and body?
Well, I think there are a couple of questions there. Where's consciousness come from? And you
answered it. Consciousness is one thing that the brain does. And there are people who study that.
I can look it up before we go. There's a very good neurologist who was at Iowa, who's now at USC,
and he's got a great TED talk on it. He's got a number of books on it. And people are mapping out
the part of our brain that generates consciousness. It's thought of as one of the last great
frontiers in neuroscience. Again, the explanation is going to be a natural,
biologic explanation. And consciousness is one thing that the brain does.
Now, the second part of your observation and question. Again, if I've done my work well,
we can understand our vulnerability to believe that there is a consciousness or another mind
or minds out there, because that's how we operate every day. I know there are people over at Student
Health who are working there. And I know they've got minds and I know or can make guesses as to
what some of them are thinking right now. It's a snow day here. The people who are having to work
at the pharmacy who I know, they're real problems getting prescriptions to people today. And I can
see them and know that they're worried and frustrated. That's the same thing. I'm aware
of complicated consciousness out there in other people. So it doesn't take much to think, oh,
there's a God or God's out there with consciousness who have thoughts and feelings. Again, all religions
contain attributions of human, ordinary mental states. So there's a super consciousness out there
or there are gods out there with consciousness. Again, it's just one little step away from what
we're all using all the time. It's just so automatic. We don't even think about it.
But it's just one little step and there's a super consciousness out there or God has got a mind.
That makes sense.
This is taken every day example here. Regardless of one's political persuasions,
I think all of us in the last couple of days have had some thought or thoughts about,
I wonder what Donald Trump is thinking as all this stuff is being presented at the impeachment
trial. What's going on in this guy's mind? How's he reacting to it? We can think about what he may
be thinking or feeling. We can be curious about it. We can make guesses. We can make guesses.
That's why we're interested in it in the news. Oh, they said he was angry and yelling at the
television set. So we can picture him angry and yelling at the television set. Yesterday,
we found out that on yesterday's presentation at the impeachment trial,
he went out and played golf so we can think, well, he didn't want to watch it. He's frustrated.
Wanted to go play golf. So we can make very complicated thoughts about what may be going on
in his mind, his wishes, his thoughts, his intentions, his desires. It's just automatic.
Interesting.
It's just one slight step to what is God thinking of my presentation today?
Do you like it? Do you not like it? Is he angry? Am I going to get punished this afternoon?
Is he going to feel slandered or he's got other things to do?
It doesn't take much. But you can see, I hope that it's just one little step away from
what you think about the presentation. We're certain parts clear. Let's get a little bit
closer to your point. What are the people who see this going to think? I can think about
what some of your audience may think, what I hope they'll think, what I hope they'll understand.
I can think about the parts that I may not have been clear about. That's very complicated
cognition. I'm thinking about what's going on in other people's minds who I don't know,
who I haven't met in the future. And I can have very complicated thoughts about, well,
was that slide with neurotransmitters too busy? Could they see that? Did I explain that well?
I can have very, very intricate, very complicated thoughts about what's going on in the minds of
other people in response to this presentation. Minds that I've not met yet, I don't know.
And it doesn't require me to see them or to have them physically present for me to think about.
Dr. Thompson, the reason why that's powerful, what you just said, is because we have had interactions
and previous prior evidential experiences that we know for a fact have happened,
that we base those cognitive circumstances in a kind of non-reality sense. We're playing it in
our head because we've actually experienced these things. And so this is natural, and we project
the natural into a realm that is beyond that. The problem when we constantly as atheists will
try to tell theist, look, I can touch my sister, my wife, my brother, my kids. I can show you these
things, these interactions, these feelings, all these things naturally. But when we say, look,
I just don't have any evidence for God or gods to project what we experience all the time,
which is natural to put that up into the clouds to a sky daddy or some other form of some being
indeed, whatever you imagine it to be. When we ask for that evidence there, I don't see anything
wrong with that. I just think they think we can't see what they're seeing. And it's like,
you know, we do it to humans, but atheists aren't doing that to a divine figure anymore,
because we realize that is the imaginary friend, that is the, that is just a psychological and
oftentimes an emotional thing. But you went into the science on this. So there's a lot of emotional
attachment, but you went into a lot of other amazing things I never thought about in this
presentation. Well, thank you. I mean, to go back to your illustration, they can't see
that we can't see it. Because for them, it's just kind of obvious. It's just there.
And I think one thing that's important for atheists to realize is that
they're not as crazy as we think. Because they're saying that they just don't understand why we
can't see this, you know, presence of God and a father figure out there and who's taking care of
us, who has intentions, who's worried about us, who has moral precepts. They just don't understand
why we can't see it. Okay. And it's hard for us to see that they're that way, because that
belief system that they have is just one tiny step from what we're doing every day of our lives.
Naturally as humans. Naturally as humans. Yeah. I mean, all of us right now,
I probably say I follow politics. So it's infused with that. But
all of us right now can think about what Xi Jinping, the leader of China, we can
think about what he might be thinking. Right. We can play a whole narrative.
What does he think of Biden? What adjustments is he going to make? What did he think of Trump?
What, how is he going to respond to the criticisms of his locking up and putting in
concentration camps, the Muslims? What we can have complicated thoughts about his mind, his
intentions, his beliefs, his desires, you know, based on what we know of his history,
of everything. But the reality is, I don't speak Chinese. His thoughts are, you know,
I would assume in Chinese, I don't speak that language.
You know, but I can have, I can have pretty complicated thoughts about what's going on in
his mind. Maybe a few of them are, you know, close to being true. We'll never know. But they're not,
you know, it's not outlandish. Yeah. And, you know, it's just, and so I think Asia's have to,
you have to keep in mind that as, you know, because we see and are frustrated by just how,
you know, nutty some of these beliefs seem to be and how much they influence our lives and our
culture and our, you know, our daily, yeah, just our daily lives. And so we get frustrated. But
those beliefs, as crazy as we think they are, are, you know, just everyday cognitions with
just a few little twists and they become very powerful. Interesting. Yeah. And we need to keep
that in mind. And so it's very hard to show them because they're basing their beliefs on
everyday, ordinary, natural, the fundamental structure is
almost the same. It's almost the same. I was trying to think of an analogy. It would be like,
okay, it would be like, it would be like, you know, there's a neighbor down the street
who's got a house that you think, and I think most of us think is just the ugliest thing we've
ever seen. I mean, who the hell was the architect? That is the ugliest house I've ever seen.
You know, the paint job is terrible. The architecture is ugly. It's like,
where in the hell did that come from? Oh my God. And should we get together as a neighborhood and
go down to city council and try to stop them from finishing the house? Okay, but that house has got,
we don't have something, it has a foundation, it has walls, it has, you know, two by fours
and joints, it's got brick, it's got mortar, it's got plumbing, it's got, you know, it's just filled
completely filled with the same thing that's in my house. You know, it's fundamentally
got the same everyday things that are in my house. And that's what we've got to keep in mind.
And it, you know, so just the, you know, the, the, and let's get out of religion for a minute.
I mean, people don't realize how I think very easy it is to believe that another group stole
something. And life was, for most of our evolutionary history, life was harsh, difficult, deadly.
Resources were scarce. You know, intergroup violence was common and stealing resources.
And we had to be constantly on guard against other groups. And for stealing stuff, you know,
life was not easy. And part of what may have spurred actual human migration is that if you and I are
one group and we've been attacked and our group has been decimated, we probably better move.
We ought to head out. You know, we ought to, if we're going to survive, we got to move.
And that may have spurred a lot of human migration is to get away from other groups
that have injured or almost wiped us out. So it's very easy to be on guard against people
attacking us and people stealing stuff from us. Right. So it's, it's, you know, I get frustrated
politically again, I get frustrated with Trump's big lie that the election was stolen from him.
And all these Trump people that, you know, really believe in their hearts, the election
was stolen from them. But step back, we're very vulnerable to those kind of beliefs.
Right. That makes a lot of sense. That another group would steal stuff from us and injure us.
And if you tell me, let's extend the analogy. If you tell me, Andy,
there's this group that's coming after us, you know, they, they remember an attack from 10 years
ago that you and I may have forgotten and they, they finally got enough people that they're going
to seek revenge and they're coming after us. It would be wise for me to believe you.
You know, it would not be smart of me to say, Derek, I need to have the evidence.
You know, let's walk down to the other group and ask them that they really are indeed intending to
kill us and enacting revenge from 10 years ago. That would not be a good idea. If you told me
that, probably the best idea would be, okay, let's get the hell out of here. Right. Because I'm
dependent on you for my life. You're dependent on me. We got to get our group together and, you
know, get the hell out. And so, you know, you may have been lying to me, but it'd be better for me
survival wise to trust you. So I'm not going to, I'm not going to question, and I'm not going to
question a big lie from the authority figure. The authority figure tells me, you know, the steel
is on, you got to stop the steel. It's, you know, it's, I'm going to be vulnerable to believe it.
Wow. Really powerful stuff. Yeah. So I think,
you know, obviously, I love this stuff. I think it's crucial. I want it out there.
I think one of the problems that we have is that obviously, it's very,
and on the one hand, it's simple, but on the other hand, it's complicated. There are a lot of
different mechanisms that go into religious belief. And, you know, I just would like it in
the psychology textbooks. I would like the, you know, ABC Sunday morning television show to interview
people like Pascal Boyer or some of the people who've done some of the important research
that has delineated this. I think, unfortunately, it's not out there. And I very much appreciate
your praise of my previous presentations, your praise of my book. It means a lot to me.
My book is awesome. Well, but here's where I'm going with it though. My book is just
sort of summarizing. I didn't do any of this research. All my, all my, what I did was summarize
other people's work. Right. And there are all these people out there that I think need to be
recognized. I mean, CBS Sunday morning ought to be interviewing these people. There's a group at
University of British Columbia that has done just tremendous research on the psychology of religion.
I happened to like Pascal Boyer's book, Religion Explained, but they're just all sorts of books
out there. And, which, you know, I'm old. And, you know, when I was in college or medical school,
this knowledge was not there. These books were not there. And now,
since the early 2000, I think Pascal Boyer's book is 2002, increasingly over the last 20 years,
you have all these books out there and all this research out there. And I think it's not
permeating into the broader culture. You don't see, you don't see a CNN documentary on the
psychological researchers into religion. It needs to happen big time. They need to be doing,
they need to be doing, you know, profiles of these people. They need to be going to their labs.
They need to be profiling their work, their papers. Well, I'm going to ask the audience right now
in the midst of this, because I have one more question. And this is off that topic, but it's
an interesting one and a lot of, it's a pretty exciting topic. A lot of people like to talk about
and we'd like, I'd like to get your opinion if you have one on it. But first, ladies and gentlemen,
not only do you want to like this video, like the channel, it makes me a vision grow, of course.
But I want you to take this book, Why We Believe In Gods, and Dr. Andy Thompson,
his, his name. And I want you to run to every atheist place you know, every person who's even,
maybe not an atheist, that's a theist that is spouting the ideas of why we believe in gods,
things like that. And I want you to put his name in his book, because one thing about Andy is he's
going to mention the other guys. He's not like, Oh, this is me. No, you just heard him say from
the horse's mouth, all the other researchers he wants to give credit to. But we have to start by
giving names and potentially post this video underneath some of these blogs and Facebook and
all the social media platforms so that it spreads and that more people pay attention to these ideas
so that we can get this out there. It has to start somewhere. So really, it's up to you,
the viewer, to actually make this possible. You may not think that you can make a dent,
I'm telling you, you know, I have this saying in the recovery community where I got clean off drugs,
where a social creature, a string is easily snapped. But thousands of strings together create
a rope, and ropes can lift boats, aircrafts, houses, heavy, heavy objects can be lifted.
With that many strings combined, you guys are all the strings, make a rope, make this thing go out
there and change the world. It really, really will. We will figure out as a social species,
how to fill in those gaps that religious people have, how to have a healthy way of thinking
without having to think superstitiously about some concepts. Because I, from my own experience,
going from someone who is a hardcore Christian fundamentalist to an atheist rationalist naturalist
who thinks there's a natural explanation for the world, realizes there was a transition.
I had to replace ideas. I had to fill in those emotions with new things and new
actions in my life that have made me feel better. I had to make this plug for them, Andy. I just
felt like it was part of my needing to let them know how important they have a role that they
can play in this and to make a change. So thank you, ladies and gentlemen for checking this out and
doing that on behalf of my request. I'm asking you to do this. This is so important. The last
question I have for you, Dr. Thompson, is have you ever heard of the stoned ape theory?
I can give you a gist real quick. I think I have, but I think I'm
confusing it with the aquatic ape. This might be a fringe theory because I don't know consensus
like scholarship like you would, but I know you know of Joe Rogan. Joe Rogan is a huge podcaster
and he has these guys who come on with strange theories from time to time. And one of the theories
he presents is the stoned ape theory. All right. So the stoned ape theory is pretty much when we
were in trees and the canopies of trees five million years ago, my dating might be off here.
I'm just throwing the idea out. We came down to the ground for food. We didn't have the food
resource necessary to keep sustaining a tree canopy lifestyle. Potentially we don't have
absolute facts on that, but that we came down to the floor and on the ground and we flipped
cow patties and we found food. And when we did, we came across mushrooms and certain things that
had psychedelic tendencies and micro dosing or potentially ingesting some of these new diets
that we had taken part in gradually caused neurons to expand and connect in ways they
weren't connecting before, which caused us to gradually evolve in the direction that we did
evolve in, which allowed us to have the capacity of thinking in the frontal lobo cortex developing
in the way it is and all the different advantages we have were due to the psychedelic
diet that was potentially ingested over very long periods of time in the evolutionary process.
And that's pretty much what the stoned ape theory suggests is that the apes were taking
certain substances that allowed us to think outside the box. And one analogy I'll give,
I guess, is that what is the, I can't even think of his name now. I don't know why,
the inventor of Apple. Steve Jobs. Yeah, he talks about in his book that if it weren't for
acid, for example, if he had not experimented with acid, the creativity to come up with such an
invention wouldn't have been there. Now, that's a bad leap. I know that's not any empirical connection
necessarily, but the idea of these psychedelics making us think outside the box of what we typically
think out as may have had some advantages in our evolutionary process. Do you think there's
some validity to that? Or is that like a huge fringe theory?
I'm not familiar with the theory. Okay. I've not read about it. However, it's not as fringe
as people may think. You know, I would want to read about it. I'd want to see the evidence.
And here's the reason, because we did utilize plant neurotransmitters. And bear with me,
because I think it's important. Okay. One of the hallmarks of plants is they can't run.
Okay. So plants evolved chemicals that would manipulate the central nervous system of animals
that would feed on them or attack them. And so that's why the substances that we abuse,
you know, come from plants, alcohol, marijuana, nicotine, you name it. It comes from plants or,
you know, in the case of alcohol, from fermentation, from plants. And so plants
evolved these substances that would manipulate the central nervous system of animals that might
destroy the plant or would manipulate the central nervous system of animals that could
take their seeds and carry them elsewhere and deposit them. So there's an arms race. So plants
evolve chemicals that are actually toxic. And so we have to, so that we don't get killed,
we have to evolve chemical defenses against those plant toxins. And some of those defenses that we
evolved are the enzymes in our liver that detoxify drugs. And we also use those toxins for our own
benefit. So the evidence is we take nicotine and we take it in, but we control the levels of nicotine
because nicotine was very useful at killing the parasites in our guts, particularly worms,
worm infections. Marijuana, THC, we would use THC probably in part to, you know, protect us from
parasites. Alcohol, you know, obviously kills a lot of bacteria and is an anti-infectious agent.
Now, so we, you know, consumed plant toxins, as do other animals. There are other animals that
will consume plant toxins to control their infections. We consume some of these plant
toxins that impact our central nervous system that may create psychedelic experiences.
And those psychedelic experiences then become part of our culture.
Now, the question you raise is, did those psychedelic experiences, were they often enough
or frequent enough that they impacted brain growth? Here's where it gets complicated.
If my brain grows, it doesn't pass on to the next generation, the acquired characteristic kind of,
which was believed for a while. It has to affect the genes that build those brains,
which makes it a steeper hill decline. But did we, you know, in our hunter-gatherer past,
consume plants that gave psychedelic experiences? Absolutely. One of the most famous anthropologists
is a man named Napoleon Shagnon, and he studied the Yanamamo in South America, and they're thought
to be a window into deep history. There are now very few uncontacted, I think there are probably no
uncontacted Yanamamo tribes, but he lived among them in the 1960s, and they used psychedelic.
I don't remember exactly what the plant, where it came from, but they would use those
plants to create psychedelic experiences. So it's probably been part of our ancestral past
for a long time. Did it impact brain growth and our development as human beings? I think you would,
to go that far, I think you'd want to be very skeptical. I think what drove our big brain,
what drove our big brain growth was getting the hardware and the software to have the complicated
social, interpersonal experiences that we do, to be able to negotiate the interpersonal environment.
We conquered the physical environment, but the most complicated, difficult part of our
environment, even to this day, is each other. Wow. That is very well said, and I ask everyone to
obviously get the book. Let me know what you think in the description of this. This was a
great presentation, Dr. Thompson. Could I plug a couple other books? Absolutely.
Because I want people to understand that this stuff is out there. I'm obviously a fan of Richard
Dawkins book, The God Delusion, Sam Harris' book, The End of Faith, anything that Sam Harris writes,
or his debates. A book that I think is very good if people are interested in the basic
evolution of human beings and of human psychology is written by a guy named Stephen Stuart Williams.
It's a hyphenated last name, and his book is called The Eight that Understood the Universe.
I highly recommend that book, and that's more just the evolution of our psychology and our culture.
One of the best books on religion is Religion Explained by Pascal Boyer.
But again, if you research it, there's just a host of books out there, and YouTube talks.
There's a new book by a guy named Watley, and I think he also has a presentation at UCLA,
and it's W-A-T-L-E-Y. I'm afraid I can't remember the title of this book.
If you go to the publications, if you want to really dig deep, the group at University of
British Columbia and their psychology department that studies religions, they've got great stuff,
there's just wonderful work out there. I encourage people. Again, I appreciate Mr. Lambert's
praise in my book. If you read it, you'll see that it's just a compilation of other people's
stuff, and I try to list them in bibliography, the places they go read. That's why I think it's an
exciting time, and I think Mr. Lambert mentioned it, is you've got to get this stuff out there.
We've got to find ways to get it into newspapers. We've got to get it into television interviews.
We've got to get it into television shows. We've got to have it permeate the broader culture.
Obviously, I hope that you're not going to be able to write a psychology textbook for
introductory psychology in a high school or introductory psychology in a college that
doesn't contain this work. I think that's crucial, and I think that's something all of us can do.
We can make sure that evolution is taught in our schools, but now I think we're in a place where we
can say this stuff, it's out there, it's empirically supported, it needs to be included in your basic
psychology textbooks. Absolutely. Well, thank you so much for joining me today. Let's do this again.
Anytime. I so appreciate your invitation. So, ladies and gentlemen, do not ever forget
we are METFISHEN.
