Ladies and gentlemen, we're here at the Faithless Forum 2021.
I'm hanging out with Steven.
Rationality rules.
If you don't know the YouTube channel, obviously go subscribe.
If you don't want to miss it today, we're going to just have a simple conversation.
That's funny.
I say that because some people go, this is not simple, but I want it to be laid back.
I don't expect you'd have everything perfect.
You got a beer in your hand, we're hanging out in the hotel and having fun.
I hope everyone joins us next year.
So let's let's make this real simple.
You're a naturalist, you're an atheist, you don't believe there's a God.
In philosophy, you have all of these different positions, idealism and theism and pantheism.
You name it, there's different ideas that float around and philosophical ideas.
What in philosophy convinces you, well, maybe it's not philosophy, maybe it's the world
around you and then your philosophy is shaped by the natural world.
I don't know.
What draws you in the direction in becoming an atheist?
What makes you think you've got it right, whereas theists are wrong?
Yeah, good, great question.
I'd say that the answer that I'll give you now is not what I would have given you a
long time ago and maybe it's worth exploring the way that that works because I think it's
the path that a lot of atheists, a lot of naturalists take.
I find myself in a position where I go, hmm, there seems to be this contradiction between
having an all-powerful God and an all-loving God and children dying of cancer or millions
of years before we even exist, there's bushfires and annihilating sentient beings.
How does this make sense under the rubric of classical theism?
So I end up not being convinced by these propositions and I go for a lack-theism kind of push and
I go, I'm just not convinced of this.
What does this make me at this point?
Well, I'm not a theist.
I don't think that this is true or if I was a theist, it would have to be towards a God
that doesn't have these attributes, which is not what my culture taught me.
It's not what the cultures around the world teach you.
It would have to be towards some form of pantheism or some pretty weak God.
Theism or something.
Yeah, yeah, totally.
And theism is a respectful position, I guess, in the sense that it's unfalsifiable, whereas
theism that you see in Christianity, Islam and Judaism is falsifiable because it makes
those claims about their God.
You can apply the reductio ad absurdum in order to show that the problem of evil is a really
serious problem.
And where that led me is to saying, I'm just not convinced by this stuff.
And I guess I'm an atheist.
And that's the definition that I think most atheists use, and it's what I would have used
for a very long time.
It's what I use still.
But then as time goes on, some atheists will just get on with their lives, they just enjoy
their time.
They say, look, there is no God.
I'm here for a while.
Let's have a good time.
Let's go to events.
Let's have some drinks.
Let's have a good time.
Whereas for me, I wanted to learn more.
My entire drive when it comes to philosophy, just life in general, is that I want to figure
out why we are here, because it's weird.
Why is there something rather than nothing?
I love this, by the way.
That was a great video.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's a legit question.
Why is there something rather than nothing?
Does theism make more sense of this than atheism?
Some philosophers, very serious philosophers taken seriously in the Academy, publishing
peer-reviewed papers, and it's like they think, yeah, you start looking this up.
The more time you spend investing yourself, you change the reasons and you change the
way that you look at this conversation.
And I've went from the lack of theism position, which I still hold, which is that I'm just
not convinced by the arguments that are put forward.
I think there's basically no chance that Christianity is true.
But a more vague definition, maybe there could be something there, I can't, it is essentially
unfalsifiable.
But the way that I move towards naturalism is to get to naturalism, you need to know
a lot more.
You need to think about the key fields of philosophy, epistemology.
How do we know what we know?
Dealing with a gripper's trilemma and things like this, a hard solipsism, if to deal with
the arguments that the presuppositionists will put forward, you have to look at ontology
being.
And as you, as I have navigated through these places, ethics, right, I went from being a
moral realist, thinking Sam Harris has got it right, turns out I'd now say that Sam
Harris is quite embarrassing when it comes to philosophy, right?
And I'd call myself an anti-realist when it comes to morality.
But after navigating enough of philosophy, that's when I'm confident enough to actually
affirm a proposition such as there are no gods, which is the philosophical definition that
you'll find in the literature.
Graham Oppie mentions this, Paul Draper, or just naturalism, right?
The idea that it's just, it's just a natural state of things, right?
They're not even a pawn in the cosmic game of play.
And finally, I've got to the point where I'm okay with that.
So the question is, and I want to repeat it, I think you said it, maybe I got to like put
the highlighter to the screen.
The question is, you're taking a positive position that there are no gods.
Whereas most people like me shiver in their underwear and kind of go, well, I could prove
there isn't a being, right?
So this is where it gets into this real tricky lack theism, atheism.
Is it metaphysical atheism?
Is it this modern consensus of normal non-philosopher speaking people who say, oh, atheism.
So my question is, you're taking that affirmative that you are claiming there are no gods.
Yeah, I would go that far now.
Yes.
Obviously, it depends on the God type.
If you've got a God that's got these properties of omnipotence and omnipenevolence, it's very
easy, it's much more easy to approach that because it's falsifiable.
The problems of evil are a serious problem for theists.
And if they don't think it is, then they're not paying attention because it's the thing
that will bring people out almost all the time.
Almost all arguments against theism are basically going to be rooting either down to explanatory
value versus ontological costs, which Graham Woppey's been saying before, or it's just
going to be a rendition of the problem of evil.
I would go so far as to say that I think that God almost certainly doesn't exist.
Right.
What would be my credence?
What percentage would I put on it if we want to go that far?
Maybe 95, 98 percent, I'd be well up there.
But then if you take a deistic position as a God out there, he's not all powerful and
she doesn't have omnipenevolence and the motives are not known to us.
Okay, fair enough.
There's a reason to think that that's compatible with the world that we see.
But to me, like if you used to say, well, are you going to affirm that or not?
I think like Ockham's razor works here, you just go, listen, if I get the same explanatory
value with fewer ontological commitments, then that's what I'm going to do.
So it's not like a strong position on all of theism.
I don't think you can get there, but most theists, you'll say this to them, do you believe
in reincarnation?
No.
That's an affirmative position.
You're not saying that you lack belief in reincarnation.
You're saying, no, I don't believe in reincarnation.
And I think that's pretty much where I'd fall on theism.
It's like, I think there's good reasons to think that it's not true.
There's, in addition to the problems of evil, we have the explanatory value that we need
for the world that we experience, there's no need to go any further than that.
So I'd affirm in that sense.
Bill deGrasse Tyson says, you know, the famous memes that float around.
I love them.
He says, you know, the universe is not, does not have to make sense to you, right?
So I love that because it makes you put yourself in perspective, the dot and the spec we are
in comparison to the universe itself and who knows what's beyond that.
The question I have for you, if I were to jab back to get you to try and dig, if I said,
okay, what do you do about fine tuning though?
Like, like we have these implications, there seems to be order.
You say there's total randomness, this, this, that, and how do you deal with the fine tuning
argument in this?
If they said, look, I get it.
I'm with you.
I'm with you.
We get it.
The God of the Bible, these theistic omni, this omni that, no, I just think there's a
mind.
Bernardo Castro, okay?
Have you heard of him?
No, no, no, familiar.
I'd love to get you acquainted with him because he takes a idealist, I don't, I think it's
ideal or idealistic philosophical position, but ultimately he thinks, and I have him on
record on the channel talking to me about this, he thinks that materialism is implausible,
not even possible.
Okay.
Oh, wow.
This is how far, he's a hardcore.
It doesn't, it's not even an open possibility.
He's like two PhDs, he's like a brilliant, there's a debate coming up with him and Graham
Oppie.
Can't wait to see it.
This guy's like really sharp, but he says that this mind, when I said, tell me about
this mind is it's not perfect and it's trying to figure things out.
It doesn't know what it's doing.
And to me, all that language, and this is me as a naturalist, as someone who, I guess
you could call me a materialist.
I don't, when they go that, the people go, oh, that's nihilism.
No, that's not what you act like.
If all I thought was material world exists, there's no purpose in meaning.
We give ourselves that.
So we're getting off into weeds.
The point is, he kept describing it like this imperfect mind.
And when I thought about that, it reminded me when I was coming out of Christianity
from theism and said, well, maybe pantheism or deism.
And then for a while, I kind of sat in those bubbles because it was a comfortable transition
coming out.
Then it was, what's the difference between deism and atheism?
One says something made it, it's gone.
The other says nothing's there, and either all things exist eternally, and there's the
universe contracting and expanding, or who knows if it had a beginning or not, because
we can only go back so far.
All of that to just say, like, I started seeing, what's the real difference between an imperfect
mind supposedly figuring things out, or just the mathematical construct that we live in
in this universe that we live in has its imperfections.
It looks random, but still has some order.
Like this is just how the natural what we live in, the brute fact is, what's the difference
between that?
Yeah, I think it comes down to the falsifiability stuff, right?
So if you did actually have a God that's all powerful and all loving, then it would be
weird to find the left recurrent laryngeal nerve that goes from here, all the way down
to your heart, round a veil, and all the way up, and in a giraffe, it takes a 15 foot
detour.
A bit of a hard thing that doesn't look like fine tune to me, that looks like random mutations
being selected upon by nature.
But if the mind is not perfect, then maybe there's room for those kind of, quote, mistakes
or those diversions.
And I do get it, because you look around and you see that it does seem to be fine tuning
in the sense that all of the complexity we see, all of the detail, again, the why something
rather than nothing, it seems you can answer that better if you say that there's a reason
for it.
But look, if you was to drop 5D6 dice, do you know what the chances are that you'd get
six on all of them?
I don't know the percentage.
If you did, I'd be impressed, because I've dropped that on you for no reason, right?
It's about one in 1,772.
Do you know what the chances would be to get three, four, six, two, one, just some random
one that you defined beforehand?
1,700, whatever you say.
It's exactly the same.
And one of the things I think is, well, if the universe has existed forever, or as there
is this multiverse, or if, you know, then you're having the dice rolled so many times,
you're going to get every combination or nearly every combination.
Right.
Technically, you won't get every combination, but by necessity, but you probably will with
probability.
And that would explain some of the things that we see.
But it is so difficult.
We live.
You said about humility.
We live in such a small part of the universe, and we know so little about so much.
And I can't help but think that there's just no way, even with our best empirical sources
that we can be making these definitive statements about, that is fine-tuned.
Well, we don't have examples of what's not fine-tuned, so we don't really have this to
be a...
If this is, yeah.
Precisely.
So it's an if.
And then this is the final thing I'd like to ask you on this, because dude, I honestly
want to invite you on to hang out, do a live sometime.
If you're ever down, you are in mind that I really want to achieve and learn the things
you do.
Your lecture the other day, pertaining to logical fallacies, I mean, I know I can learn
a thing or two from you.
So brute facts.
This boils down to that whole like, you're going to be stuck with this idea of brute facts
at the end of the day.
Theists still have the same problem.
And I kind of wanted you to say it, so you're the one in trouble, not me.
The problem is, is where did God come from at this point?
Because, sure, we can run into, OK, something had to cause all this, why does anything exist
at all?
And then you can answer that if you were a theist to say, well, God, and then you've
got to go, you're still begging the question.
Well, God is a brute fact.
Yeah.
So the way that they would cash it out is we see what they would call contingent things
in the universe, things that you could define it this way loosely.
They're explanatory explanations for what they are embedded in something else.
They don't explain themselves.
And we buy this already because we don't think like the camera came out of nowhere.
There's reasons for it being there, same with, you know, like you and I and like the lighting
and just anything and everything.
We always see that there's a reason and it's a contingent reason.
But if you follow that forever, you're going to get an infinite regress.
Now, I don't personally see too much of an issue with this, but what theists like to
do is they want to go, okay, take the totality of contingent beings.
They call it beings because live and it's got to define the words, but being just means
a proposition, a number, a fact, it could be meant, it could be anything.
But they say, like, take the totality of contingent beings.
What's the explanation for that?
Well, if you say that the explanation is that it's contingent on something else, then you've
done a foul.
The foul is, is that you've said, you're explaining the set by rendering it a member of itself
and they don't like this.
So they want other solutions.
Well, you could say that all of this contingent stuff is explained by something that is quote
necessary, that is something that explains itself.
But the thing is, is we've got no examples of necessary beings in our universe.
They are incredibly costly to go, yeah, there's something's necessary.
It's about as costly as saying that something is brewed.
Say something is brewed is to say that there's no explanation for it.
We don't want to do that.
Like, we don't buy that in any domain of discourse, we really do not want to buy that.
We feel like we're going to have to buy it at some point.
There's no way to explain it.
There's no way.
But I would, I would contend that buying a necessary being is just as expensive because
everything else is explained in terms of contingency, not in necessity.
So it's very expensive.
So if we're going to have to pay for one, you're going to want to pay for the one which
doesn't commit you to both brewed facts and necessity.
Good point.
So what you have here, and there are some good arguments out there for necessity.
I don't think that they're the correct, but maybe that would be a tangent for another
time.
I don't know.
But yeah, when you're trying to explain the contingent facts and you have this necessary
being, we can play the same trick that they do with contingency.
You can say, all right, let's take the necessary fact and it try and explain why is there some
necessary fact rather than no necessary fact?
Why is there once some necessary being rather than no necessary being?
It's a set with one member in, perfectly legitimate.
If they explain that in terms of necessity, they're guilty of what we've done, right?
They've made it so that the set is a member of itself, big no, no, or what they can do
is say, it just is, well, okay, you just brought a brute fact and you've brought necessity.
Right.
You don't want to be doing this unless you've got good argumentation for it.
This seems to be the way that I'm looking at it at least.
Whereas you've got like Richard Swinburne, like top philosophers fortunate enough to
enjoy a drink with him and Alex Conner a couple of weeks back and what he does is he's asked,
why does God exist?
He just goes, just does brute fact.
He gets mocked by theists who buy necessity.
They say God must exist out of necessity and then pretty much immediately buy a brute fact
anyway.
It's very, very strange to me.
But it's very interesting and very unintuitive ground that you move into and yeah, it's a
fascinating one.
I could talk about it for ages.
I've been up at night too many times thinking about it.
I mean, this, you, well, it's the best, it's like the most amazing questions to ask.
Yeah, absolutely.
And there are questions you can't have the answer to completely.
Like I mean, we can, and you know what's amazing at this?
At the end of the day, no one really knows.
We don't have that.
It's a cratic, you know, the more I know, the more I realize, I don't know.
The more you think about this, the more you're going to realize you hit that wall of limit
where you just don't know.
Maybe someday we'll figure something out and hopefully we do.
I would love that.
But whether it's theism or not, I would love that.
I can tell you this though.
You can go ahead and call bankrupt to the Abrahamic faiths as if they're facts.
This is my point.
You want to be a theist?
Diaz?
Pantheist?
Cool.
Got it.
That gives you meaning more than the idea of like, are we alone?
Is this really all just organic development and there's no purpose of meaning?
What do you call that?
Above and beyond what we create to be meaning?
Who knows?
There might be meaning.
And it may not even be theism.
I mean, can you imagine there's a box outside of what we even put into that we just can't
even comprehend?
Yeah, there's some parts in the philosophical literature that takes this quite seriously.
We make games.
When that gets sufficiently developed, we'd want to see what civilizations look like in
games.
We'd run emulations.
Well, you can follow from that that maybe we're in an emulation, right?
These things in philosophy are taken seriously and it's like maybe, you know, but it's un-falsifiable.
I'm not convinced, but I wish maybe they've got it so good I've heard people go, I don't
see any glitches.
But that's also assuming that like, we haven't hit a stage at some point where we have
perfected it, where there aren't glitches.
So I mean, there's so many, but then it gets into that weird land of like, you can't prove
anything wrong.
It's all science fiction.
Yeah.
And we'll add to what you were saying there, and that is that when it comes to necessity
and contingency and these kind of topics, the one thing I am confident on, and it's
an area where I think confidence is pretty toxic, I'm confident that those that tell
you that they know the answer are bullshitting you.
They're bullshitting themselves.
There's no way that they're figuring this out a priori in an armchair.
They figured out this like significant thing about the universe like, really?
Where's your humility?
Like, are you serious?
And this is, this is something I have to say, I see pretty much exclusively from the
theist side, because you'll get the agnostic, you get the agnostics and atheists.
They tend to go, I'm kind of convinced of a necessary being.
I see some good arguments for it, I'm relatively confident.
But when you get theists, they go, no, God is necessary.
I know it.
Of course you don't, but you just keep pretending that you do and, you know,
accusing the atheists of not having this all sorted out.
It's, it's, yeah, I'm confident that those that think that they have the answer
on this one, big red flag for me.
So just to finish up and polish what you said there in a simple way for dummies
like me, this is really interesting.
You bring up that theist, I'll say it like this, theist attached to these
religious texts.
Okay.
They typically carry this kind of mindset and they're not even paying
attention to the things you're saying.
They're only seeing when you say, I'm confident, the biblical Abrahamic.
I'm confident that these, you know, Hinduism, the whole night, like I'm
confident these are manmade, probably because ancient philosophers and what
we call ancient science is what we call religion.
And here they are trying to ask those questions and answer those questions
with myth, the best they know, and maybe they believe them.
But at the end of the day, what you're trying to say is, is you're confident
that those are, and they'll think that there you are with your ego.
But no, you're literally saying in the other breath, look, theism is possible.
I don't know that it's not the case.
I'm telling you philosophically why I think it's a little more ad hoc than
the idea of brute facts instead of having necessity and brute facts.
That's an added step.
Like Graham Oppie said, it's much simpler and simpler seems to be easier.
Yeah, we do it in every other domain of discourse.
We buy the simplest solution that gives us the same explanatory value.
It's a simple Occam's razor.
Yeah, I'm with you on that front.
So theists pay attention and just know we're not even, we're not even
necessarily like against theism, even if we don't think it is quite as powerful
of an argument.
It's just we're, we are coming after the myths.
Yeah, and there's this room for the rational disagreement, right?
So I've had the opportunity to speak for some brilliant theists.
I can get why, you know, they don't think the problem of evil was a problem.
Richard Swinburne was telling me himself before he was thinking on that front.
For me, the fact that there is a thousand theodicies is like having
a thousand theories for gravity.
It means that we probably don't know it.
And maybe there isn't one to explain the problem of evil in the context
of the omni attributes that tend to be attributed.
But yeah, I'm sorry for interrupting, but I want to throw in.
I want to.
Great.
Well, everybody, go check out Rationality Rules and Steven.
Looking forward to having you come on at some point in the future, man.
Looking forward to it.
Thanks for the time.
You too.
