Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor Elaine Pagels, what motivated you or what was your driving purpose in diving
deep into the book of Revelation writing your book on the book of Revelation?
Well you know Derek, this is the most controversial book in the Bible.
It always has been from the very start, I mean some people said it was heresy, some
people said it was true prophecy and they were fighting about it thousands of years
ago right after it was written and Martin Luther said it didn't belong in the Bible
and you know all kinds of controversy.
So I really didn't go near that book for a long time but there was a time when the
work that I do took me to Egypt because of the secret gospels, that's where they were
found and I spent quite a bit of time in Egypt and the Egyptians loved America.
They wanted to have blue jeans, they wanted to hear American music, they love America
right?
Right there.
But at a certain point President Bush decided to invade Iraq.
This was of course after 9-11 and he didn't go for al-Qaeda which would have been the
right thing to do.
He could have gone into the camps in Afghanistan but instead he went into Iraq which wasn't
involved with 9-11 in the way that he claimed and I thought how do you turn the entire
Arab world against the United States?
It's by that kind of act.
I think Saddam Hussein was a terrible man but I agree with him on that but that act
was bound to turn Arabs against the United States and I thought why did he do that?
And then I discovered that he, being a Christian, an evangelical Christian, was basing it on
the book of Revelation.
And I thought wow, I mean how do you take a book that's 2000 years old and say it applies
to what's going on now?
So I thought how does that work?
Because people have been reading it for 2000 years as if it were always about what's going
on right now.
It might be the 2nd century, it might be the 7th century, it might be the 15th century,
it might be the 21st but it's always current.
How does that work?
So I started to say who wrote this book and why did he write it?
It's clear to people who look at that historically that it was written by this prophet who calls
himself John of Patmos.
We think he was a refugee from the Jewish war against Rome, the Jewish revolution in
which revolutionaries fought the Roman Empire to liberate their land from Rome the way that
the American revolutionaries fought to liberate this country from the British.
And of course the Jews lost because the Romans had far greater military power.
And John was forced to leave Jerusalem probably with a temple in flames, the whole center
of the city burning down, thousands of people had been slaughtered, raped, robbed, the whole
city was absolutely in ruins.
And John being a Jew would have been very deeply distressed to see the great city of
the holy city of Jerusalem destroyed.
But John was also a follower of Jesus and there's something else came up for him because
he knew probably having read Mark's Gospel 13th chapter that Jesus had prophesied that
terrible things would happen before the end would come.
And Jesus said that those within the same generation will see the kingdom of God come
with power.
And he said that the Son of Man would come in the heavens after this terrible time when
Jerusalem would be destroyed by war.
So John was not only devastated about the destruction of the holy city, but he thought
Jesus prophesied this and now it's going to happen.
So he, like other followers of Jesus, were very excited.
So he waited 10 years.
When is it going to happen?
When is the Son of Man going to return in the clouds?
He waited 20 years and he waited 30 years and it didn't happen.
He had left Jerusalem because it was a destroyed city.
He went to Asia Minor to the great city of Ephesus, which is now in Turkey.
And when he got there he would go down the huge road that leads into this magnificent
Roman city.
And the first thing he would see is a 20 foot high statue of the reigning emperor Domitian.
Now Domitian is the son of the general Titus who had taken his troops into Jerusalem and
he's the brother of Titus who had his soldiers torch the temple and destroy the city.
So where's the kingdom of God, he might have said.
Jesus said it would come within a generation, but John could see that the kingdom that had
come with power was not the kingdom of God.
It was Rome and Domitian was now ruling the world, the son of the man who destroyed his
own city.
And there was an enormous temple to the man who had destroyed Jerusalem of Espezian and
his son Titus right there in Ephesus.
And he must have been quite devastated.
And if he went around to other cities he would see these huge temples to praising Rome, the
gods of Rome and the emperors of Rome, rulers of the universe.
And if you went to one of these temples you would see a picture of Emperor Augustus for
example, ruling over land and sea.
The next one would be Emperor Nero with his, he's about to cut the throat of a naked female
slave forced to the ground and that slave is labeled Britain.
The next one is another Roman emperor forcing to the ground a naked female slave whose name
is Armenia.
And that's the way the Romans pictured the nations they conquered.
So you could go around this temple in honor of the Roman emperors and their gods.
You could see 30 nations that they had conquered and subdued and pictured as female slaves
that were being dominated by Rome.
And one of them was Judea, the land of Israel.
So other people might be very impressed with the Roman emperors and their gods but someone
like John would be really angry.
Where was God?
How could he allow that to happen again to the holy city?
So John at that point when he was in that city of Ephesus or near on the island of Patmos
outside of it, he said he saw a vision and he said Jesus appeared to him with a voice
like thunderous waters speaking to him and saying I'm going to show you what's going
to happen next.
And at that point he said he was taken up into heaven and shown that God was going to
vindicate his people and there was going to be a battle between the forces of good,
the angels in heaven were going to come with the Son of Man and fight all the evil forces
which meant the Romans and their godless people.
And he was going to destroy the evildoers and establish his kingdom on earth.
The last scene in the book of Revelation, you remember is the heavenly Jerusalem was
descending like a bride out of heaven and God is dwelling in it and it's a glorious
city.
That's the end.
So that was his picture.
And that I think was his expectation.
He was writing wartime literature.
Literature that came out of his experience of the agony of war and his fervent hope
and faith that God wouldn't let it go on that way, that he was going to come and transform
the world.
It's a very powerful book as you know.
Yeah, there's a few interesting details that I caught.
I became a full preterist toward the end of my being in Christianity which simply is a
teaching that all prophecy, mind you I was fundamentalist, all prophecy was fulfilled.
Everything actually happened.
So we're rationalizing and we're trying to make it all work.
And the way we looked at Revelation was, well, everything is fulfilled by 70 AD.
I know it doesn't quite fit in your scholarly mindset of how that would be, but we would
argue that Revelation was written before 70 as if everything is predicting the 70 AD destruction
of Jerusalem and like these women riding on the beast and stuff and the seven headed
beast or the seven hills, things like that.
We would reinterpret it to mean the seven hills in Jerusalem or the Jews, the leadership.
They were the ones who were the wicked and they were the bad guys in this picture.
But this is why I enjoyed listening to your book because it's a breath of fresh air on
realizing you don't have to fit everything into that box and I was trying to fit it along
with other full preterists that everything is fitting to 70 AD.
You mentioned in your book that there was, 4th Ezra is also taking place in the same
post-war situation.
He talks about a three headed beast, not a seven.
And the three heads are Vespasian, Titus, and Domitian.
And you know, people have done this forever and that's very interesting.
We really don't know when it was written.
Some people that I know, scholars, John Marshall, for example, in Canada thinks that it was
written before the fall of Jerusalem.
I don't know.
I think most likely it was written after that he came out of the war and was anticipating
that that was going to be what would motivate the Lord to come and vindicate his people.
Well some of the things they do is they'll say, John's supposedly measuring the temple,
supposedly.
Well, following Ezekiel.
Right.
And I kind of thought like, is this the way they'd interpret that is literally like he's
going with a measuring rod and he's actually measuring the actual Jerusalem temple as if
it's still standing.
So that's their argument of internal evidence to suppose pre-70.
And then another one they'll use, things which must soon take place.
And they use that whole mellow concept in Greek where everything's about to happen.
It's about to happen.
They apply that to the same concept where Jesus is talking about.
When you see these things, it's about to happen.
So they apply all this language to the synoptic apocalypse.
If I could use that language as the destruction of Jerusalem.
Well, it is about the destruction of Jerusalem, I think.
And I would, I think it's more likely that it was written really in the aftermath as
like for Thesra, another Jewish prophet who was weeping over the destruction of the city
and saying, how could God allow these godless people to destroy his holy city?
And what have we done to deserve this?
So this is the struggle of devout Jews at that time.
And the beast, you know, the seven hills I think are clearly about Rome.
And the seven-headed beast is the dynasty of the kings just as you said and just as it
appears in 4th Ezra, probably from Augustus to the time of Domitian.
You can argue which head of the beast is who.
But these are the beast with seven heads and crowns on its heads and so forth.
Yeah, these are rulers and they're Roman rulers and they are monsters and, you know, enemies.
I mean, it's clear to me when you, we don't even have to spend a lot of time.
I think it's very common sense to see the 666 as Nero and Kaiser, the title for Nero.
And then he's red hair, which we get the same description from historians.
Like, so when you're looking at extra biblical historical data, you kind of match this guy
and you're going, he was vicious and even if some of it's not true and it's propaganda
about him, well, some of it might be, some of it probably not.
I don't know.
What do you think?
Everybody knew that Nero was the worst.
That's why he appears as the epitome of the worst of the Roman Empire.
He was finally condemned to death by his own people into a disgraceful and hideous death,
which he only escaped by forcing his slave to kill him by sword.
Nero was a dreadful man.
So, however, how do people keep reading into that for thousands of years?
I finally realized, Derek, that this author is using the language, he's saturated in the
language of the prophets.
He reads Isaiah, Ezekiel, Daniel.
He knows these classical prophets by heart and he sort of uses their images and reinterprets
them for his own time.
It's amazing you're saying, this is so obvious to me because exactly what the prophet John
on the island of Patmos is doing is exactly what say Daniel might be doing using older
prophets too.
Yes.
This tool, this prophetic symbolic, like Daniel talks about the four kingdoms or the four
parts of this big statue, and you see Second Temple Judaism start to reinterpret what the
bottom statue was.
Oh, it was Greece.
No, no, no.
It's Rome.
And they start to make it mean what they want in their contemporary time.
And the prophet Isaiah speaks about Israel's enemy Babylon as a whore, right?
She's a queen.
She's a prostitute.
She's corrupt.
She's rich and God is going to destroy her and shame her, that whole city of Babylon.
And Babylon is contrasted with the holy city of Jerusalem.
So how do people keep reading into it?
I finally realized that what John does, he uses these traditional themes from other prophets.
He's one of them.
And basically they are images that you could find in any child's nightmare.
They're images of monsters, beasts, dragons, horrifying insect-like creatures that appear
in Star Wars 3.
And there are angels.
And so there's a battle between good and evil.
You see this in the dramas that we have, like Lord of the Rings, It's a Force of Good Against
Evil.
You see it in Star Wars, which is about Luke Skywalker, whose name speaks about a heavenly
origin, and Darth Vader, who's a dark father, and they clash.
So the forces of good and evil are battling in those stories, Harry Potter as well.
I mean, these are all stories about forces of good, forces of evil.
But the images are so universal, like dragons, beasts, monsters, whores, angels, heavenly
kingdoms that you can plug any conflict you have into that.
Like the mark of the beast.
People are talking about chips.
It's like, oh, well, if you have this stamp on your hand, or like if you have the mark
on your hand or your forehead, you can't buy or sell.
And so everyone's starting to do, every time, it's so Nostradamus, if I can use the term,
that it can mean almost whatever.
You know, the twin cities of the fathers flying angels and wings of, and you're like, oh,
that means this or that.
It's easy.
Well, it's a battle of dark forces and light forces, good and evil, God and Satan.
And that works very powerfully as a dramatic scenario, apocalyptic scenario from the Hebrew
prophets.
And that's why it's so easy to plug in any conflict you have.
And of course, whoever's reading it will say, well, we, of course, are on the side of good.
And for example, what I discovered, this was quite remarkable to me, that when George W.
Bush got intelligence reports about the Iraq War from Donald Rumsfeld, the Secretary of
Defense's office, they would appear on his desk in the White House with a photograph and
a quote from the Bible.
One of them was of the American tanks going into Iraq with all of the guns at the ready.
And the quote was from Isaiah, let the righteous nation enter.
Another one was about shock and awe.
We've heard of shock and awe, which is Nassau's name for the bombing of Iraq, American bombs
destroying much of Iraq.
And that is taken from a scene in the Book of Revelation in which the Prophet John sees
God's angels, seven angels, with huge bowls, which they pour out on the earth.
And what they're pouring out is the wrath of God.
It is lightning and thunder and earthquakes.
So there's a scene in the Book of Revelation in which John says he sees seven angels and
each one has a huge bowl.
And each bowl is full of God's wrath.
And one pours God's wrath on the earth and terrible things happen.
And then the second angel pours the bowl of God's wrath on the earth and terrible things
happen.
And then the third and the fourth and the fifth and the sixth.
And the sixth angel pours God's wrath on the earth and it says there's huge explosions
and noise and lightning, sort of brilliant light, and people die on earth cursing God.
And that was taken to be the bombs that are bombing Iraq, which happens to be Babylon.
It is Babylon, the ancient city of God's enemies.
So you think that might be motivating Factor for why he went there?
I don't know.
But in any case, he understood it apparently.
It's shock, you see, to unbelievers.
But it's awe, if you understand, that the Americans are bringing God's wrath at the
end of time.
So you see, I think that he, from what I could tell, and I don't know, genuinely believed
that it was his divinely given task to fulfill God's will.
And he was told that the book of Revelation is encouraging the operations he took to stamp
out evil on earth.
So I think he may have been an honest believer who intended that.
But that was how I started to understand how do people do this for thousands of years?
So that, for example, when Christians started the first crusade against Muslims in the 11th
century, the Catholic King of France preached the book of Revelation.
You've got to go and save the holy city from the infidels.
That's what the book of Revelation is about.
So the first crusade with Christian armies going, fighting the Muslims in Jerusalem,
was preached as the fulfillment of that prophecy.
Then when you look at the wars in Europe, in, for example, Britain, and the wars between
Catholics and Protestants, both Catholics and Protestants saw this as the coming of the
end of time.
And they both used the book of Revelation.
That's why Luther, Martin Luther, when he was, when he translated the book of Revelation,
he had the pictures in it of the, the whore writing on the, the beast.
And she was there identified as the Pope of Rome, the Catholic Church.
That's what you have to destroy, said Luther.
And the Catholics wrote a biography of Luther, and they pictured him as the seven-headed
beast.
On the front piece of it, you can see Martin Luther was seven heads.
You know, this is amazing.
I fell into the trap of that interpretation when I was a Protestant because I thought,
okay, you really pit yourself against, you're a Protestant, you're protesting against the
Catholic Church.
Of course.
And I thought this, it's hilarious because I watched a lecture you did on this specifically
talking about this.
You did.
It's fascinating because Martin Luther did exactly what Irenaeus, Irenaeus and the early
church fathers did.
Martin Luther at first goes, eh, nah, this book doesn't fit.
This book doesn't belong, but he figured out how to use it against the Catholic Church.
And then, and then in the Civil War, I can show you, maybe you saw this, it was used
on the southern side to indicate that Lincoln, the president was being strangled by the beast
which was the union.
And therefore, it was the task of the Confederate army to destroy the evil beast.
And it was used on the north in which the seven headed beast is seen with the seven
heads of the Confederate generals.
And that is the evil beast.
So what fascinated me, Derek, most of all, is that when you have a conflict like that
the war in this country, the Civil War, it can be used on both sides because both sides
can plug themselves into, we're the good side, they're the bad side.
And then the same thing happened in World War II.
Do you know that Adolf Hitler, although not a Christian, his propaganda minister, Yosef
Goebbels, was a Christian.
And Goebbels set forth information to German Christians, both Catholics and Protestants,
that Adolf Hitler was clearing the way for the coming of Christ.
The Dritter Reich, the Third Reich, was going to be the third millennium in which Christ
would rule the earth, but Adolf Hitler was his forerunner who had to clear the earth
from pollution, which meant for the Nazis, it meant homosexuals, it meant Jews, it meant
people who resisted Adolf Hitler.
So Hitler was acting out the book of Revelation.
And on the Allied side, the British, the Americans who were fighting Hitler, also saw Hitler
as the beast.
So that's what's so striking.
You see this also with Christian propaganda against Al Qaeda, and the way that Al Qaeda
and other extremist Muslim groups see this country as the Great Satan, the White House
is the Black House, I mean, they pick up the same apocalyptic imagery and throw it back.
Yep, from their own traditions, even.
Yes, so that it, that's what's so remarkable about the book of Revelation, it is powerfully
written, it's written with passion, it's emotionally powerful.
And especially...
It's a perfect ventriloquist dummy though, it is the perfect, then make, you can kind
of puppet it to say...
Well, it's very useful, particularly in war, because it is about extreme conflict.
And you know, one of the things that I came to, and this, I thought it was very interesting
to understand, something about how the images in that powerful book can be read, you know,
can be read in so many ways.
And then I thought, there's something about this book that really troubles me, much as
I respect the power of the writing.
And that is that what it teaches, what that apocalyptic scenario teaches, is that you
cannot compromise with those people that you think are evil, you cannot negotiate.
If you have a conflict, you are, you are on God's side, they are on Satan's side, whoever
you think they are.
So you have to annihilate them.
So what it teaches people is, you can't negotiate with the other side, you have to destroy them.
That's why you mentioned, for example, QAnon, it is a religious movement, it uses the same
apocalyptic imagery in its own way.
And many of the people I'm told by people who were there, when many people went into
the capital on the 6th of January, were serious Christian believers who believed they were
saving this country from evil forces.
So the problem I have with the book of Revelation is that that's what it teaches us about conflict.
And I think for myself, I would say, what we need to learn about conflict is that people
on different sides of important issues have different interests.
And if you sit down and listen to them, you do what the American government was set up
to do with different parties.
You negotiate, you listen to them, you give a little, you take a little, they give a little,
you take a little.
You work it out so that you find a solution that isn't the solution of either side, but
it's a compromise between people with very different views.
That's what the American government was set up to be.
But that book of Revelation and the way it does ancient tradition of apocalyptic thinking
says, no, you can't do that.
You can't compromise.
You have to annihilate them.
So I think that putting that into our politics or any politics, the politics of Israel or
the politics of Turkey or any country whatsoever that is using that kind of imagery teaches
you that you have to annihilate and destroy the enemy.
Thank you.
