Was homosexuality just for a time?
No, and no homosexuality was not for a time.
You're actually translating the Bible
to say the exact opposite of what the Bible says
in plain reading.
This generation will not pass away until this
if some of the men come in the clouds
and you interpret it to mean
this generation will pass away
and the next, and the next, and the next.
And in fact, it'll be over 2,000 years
before Jesus comes back.
I was a typical youth leader type charismatic Christian.
We are 2,000 years removed from the book of Revelation.
How is it that Revelation can be 2,000 years?
It's saying, seal it up the times far off for 190 years.
That statement there, disagree with every worship leader,
every worship pastor, every pastor I saw
on any stage in Hillsong, in like Bethel.
And the next day, he'd still be quoting it
as if like, like he just didn't care.
He didn't care about reality.
He didn't care about facts.
He didn't care about like the real world consequences
of his barbaric beliefs.
And that like, that pissed me off.
I, welcome back to MythVision podcast.
Today, my guest was a devout Christian.
Not only in a devout Christian,
he was a Christian youth pastor
who sincerely followed Jesus.
And we're going to get into this, but he no longer does.
So we're going to hear what happened
and then get a little bit of a story.
His name is David McDonald.
Welcome back, my friend.
Hey, thank you so much for having me on, Derek.
You've been on a few times in the past
and some people who've watched those live streams
may know who you are.
But the real question is,
people have theological positions
that kind of automatically say,
if you really left us, you were never truly one of us.
And I'm curious to know from just anyone asking anyone,
how serious were you about being a Christian
and following Jesus?
Yeah, I was very serious.
I didn't consider half the people in my church
true Christians, I would consider them lukewarm.
I was, I was a little bit,
I guess you could call self-righteous in that way
in that I really believe that to be a Christian,
you not only, it needed to consume your whole life.
You needed to take up your cross every day.
You needed to die to yourself, to be a disciple of Jesus
and to every breath that you took
was another way to glorify him.
There was no such thing as like a milky
or watered down version of Christianity for me.
To me, that wasn't Christianity.
To me, that was, it wasn't Christianity.
Right, right.
And I know I can relate in many ways
of looking around and seeing the church
and saying, what is this?
We're going just to give people something to hold on to.
We're gonna go into some things at some point
during this discussion that really caused your faith
some problems within the Bible.
Obviously coming from a Protestant perspective.
So you aren't dependent on church history
and letting church fathers supposedly dictate the truth.
You were dealing with the text of Christian text
if we will the Bible.
And that was really our main priority
was understanding scripture.
So we'll get into that.
So you're gonna want to stay tuned.
But the other thing that I find interesting
in what you're saying here, David,
is you're so serious about this
that if something isn't adding up,
I think it's gonna be a quick problem
for people like you and me.
And I think that's worth pointing out
when some people go, why is it these fundamentalists,
these evangelicals, these hardcore Jesus freaks
end up always being the ones,
and it's not always the case,
but like majority of them end up being the ones
who deconvert and kind of go all the way
in the, I don't believe at all.
So I think that can be highlighted throughout this episode,
I hope, for people who are watching.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
I think that a lot of,
I think that I do have an extreme personality,
but I think it's just that I take my belief seriously.
I think that if, like Paul said,
if Jesus really truly did raise from the dead,
then it means everything.
Like it truly does mean everything.
And if he didn't, then there's a problem.
And it doesn't mean anything.
So, I mean that, yeah.
If I were to ask you how serious,
give us an example of how serious you were
about your Christianity before we dive into some problems.
Cause I kind of wanna take a different route with this one.
I don't wanna go into something you've already talked about
somewhere where people can watch on your channel
and they need to, Deep Drinks podcast,
which is on YouTube, the link is in the description.
I highly recommend you go subscribe to my friend here, David.
You can hear his story in depth,
but this is a different path than you've ever talked about.
And we'll get into the problems.
How serious were you?
I mean, people talk to talk,
but what made you, if you could flex or show us something
or give us something to hold onto
on why you consider yourself so serious about Jesus?
I guess I was a typical youth leader type,
charismatic Christian in that.
I would often run like prayer groups up.
We live in, I live in a place called Noosa at the time
and we'd run prayer groups up the top of Mount Timberwa
to all hours of the night praying over our town,
trying to remove the devil's strongholds
for God's kingdom to come and all that kind of stuff.
We didn't have a lot of homeless people where I live,
but you know, I remember giving,
my parents bought me this brand new jumper.
I was only like 16.
It was like a birthday present
and it was like my favorite jumper.
And I gave it away to this homeless guy
and convinced him to come to church.
And apparently he did.
I wasn't there that day because I like to work,
but I was telling him about Jesus
and he was telling me about, you know,
being in war and killing people and things like that.
So like every, you know, my friends were with me
were on pushbikes and everywhere I kind of went,
it was just another reason to kind of witness to someone.
I used to tell people at checkouts,
like I heard a friend,
I had heard through a friend that someone had a sickness
and I would tell them like, well, I'll pray for you.
And I believe in miracles.
And I believe that you can be healed
and that God loves you.
And yeah, I was like,
it's kind of cringey to think about now,
but I was very, very much, it was all encompassing.
My dad made a joke actually that,
we were doing some, the work in the backyard.
And I think he was getting a little too sick
about how charismatic I got within the Christian faith.
And he was, he would take two steps
and then be like a branch in front of him and be like,
dear God, do I step over the branch
or like step and go around the branch
and then like you pick up a shovel and say,
dear God, thank you for giving me the power
to lift up this shovel.
Like, and I was kind of laughing along,
but he was trying to make a point that like, you know,
I was too focused, I was too,
I was too heavenly minded for any earthly good.
I can definitely relate and hope that we come back
full circle to this point.
I think you were trying your best
and honestly believed in your heart of hearts
and everything that you knew that you could possibly know
to get to the truth and to worship
and believe in God and stuff.
So I want to get to the problem.
I've told my deconstruction story many times,
but I've never actually gone into detail
about specific parts.
And I guess the biggest part for me was,
I was part of a church that believed
in the perfect Word of God,
that the Bible was without error,
that Noah's Ark really happened,
that Adam and Eve existed as real people.
They're just taking the Bible as literal truth
and that there were no contradictions.
And of course, there are ways
to remove every contradiction that you find in anything.
And this is something I really want to drive home
before we dive into any of the problems is,
if I said, Derek, I'm going to come visit you
in America, I currently live in Australia.
And I'm going to walk there and you say, oh, that's crazy.
But then the next day I rock up and I say,
I've walked to your house, Derek.
And in the future, let's say a hundred years from now,
there's a religion of deep drinks.
And they're saying, oh, no, no, Dave actually did walk.
He walked all the way to America.
And some people are going, no, he couldn't have walked.
That's impossible.
There's an ocean between Australia and America.
And then the person says, well, actually,
Dave was trying to teach us, the great prophet Dave
was trying to teach us the importance
of a deep vein thrombosis and blood clots on planes.
So what he was actually saying is he was walking up
and down the aisle in the plane to try and create blood flow
because we know that's important to do
when you're on long flights.
So David was actually, not only does this prove
that David did walk to America,
but he actually did teach us science as well.
And so, I mean, but is that the most likely reading?
Is that the most honest reading of me saying
that I'm going to walk to America
when I say I'm gonna walk to America?
I don't think so.
I guess there's so many analogies you could use,
but your whole point in this example of Dave
walking to America is that the plain obvious reading
that would have been intended initially would have been,
I'm gonna actually walk to America.
And so the question someone who might be using
historical methodology would be is,
did David not know that America connects to Australia
or did David honestly think somehow
he's gonna walk across the ocean as a miracle?
Like what did he mean?
And if we have no evidence of David
actually thinking about flying a plane to begin with,
why are we inserting this interpretation
to somehow match the problem and solve?
And this happens often in optical interpretation.
Or someone might see the last episode of Deep Drinks,
see that I had different lights on in the background
and see that I had a different color and go,
wow, David must have already been in America
and he was walking to,
there's a million ways you can justify anything
and you can make anything work
as long as you try hard enough.
But is it the most honest reading of the text?
And I would say the stuff that I'm going to bring out today,
it pulls apart Christianity,
at least the Bible's inerrancy with almost no excuse.
And it pulls apart the morality of the Bible
with almost no excuse.
Like it's a one hit punch, it's a Mike Tyson KO.
I don't know why more people aren't talking about this.
And so these were things that along your deconversion
or your doubting phase,
or were you in deep with Christianity
and then came across this stuff, what happened?
So I believe it was during ministry college
where I was training to be a youth pastor
that I actually discovered these things
and dove more deeply into them.
But I could never find a consistently good answer.
And I think that what you do when that happens
is you kind of put it to the back of your mind
and you put it into the shelf of like,
I'll deal with that later.
Or some people might not do that
or maybe I didn't do that.
I just thought this isn't like whatever.
I'm just gonna ignore that cognitive dissonance
and kind of move on.
Because like when you're going through ministry college
you're getting hit with so many different ideas.
It's like you don't have time to kind of like actually
seriously examine the fundamentals of what you believe.
And it's almost like your brain stops you as well.
If you've got too much involved,
like if your whole family is religious
and you have all these like connections
or your friend groups are religious,
you've invested so much money and time and energy
into this one thing.
It's like a sunk cost, fellas.
It doesn't matter what someone shows you.
It's really hard to see it.
Right, that makes sense.
Let's get into it.
What are some of the problems?
Okay, so this is kind of my deconstruction
in three ideas from the Bible.
And so the last two were pretty intense
but we're gonna start with something
that I think is a slam dunk argument
against the inherency of at least what Jesus spoke about.
One of my favorite ways to minister to people
especially in high school was I would go to people
and I would say, why do you believe in God?
Why do you believe in the Bible?
I was known as captain Christian in school
which was silent as a payout.
And then I claimed it.
I was like, I'm gonna claim that.
I love that.
But so I used to go to people and say like
the end is near essentially.
And I would read Matthew 24
and I'll talk about how there were walls
and rumors of walls.
I'll bring news stories in and I remember
I could look at a group of people
who were initially first trying to tease me
and then I'll start telling about this
and I could see some people in that group
who were kind of clicking with what I was saying
and it looks a little bit concerned.
And then afterwards I would go up to them
and I would say, I've got a Bible for you
and I'll have these little youth Bibles that I'd give out.
And they're like kind of magazines
and then one of those guys actually ended up
coming to youth group and getting quote unquote saved.
I'm gonna do a little bit of reading here.
I think it's important to give the respect
that the Bible should have in like reading the entire
scriptures around it before and around it.
So we get the full context
because I don't want people to feel like
I'm being dishonest when I'm interpreting this.
So the first one is, we'll read is
our first gospel that was written, which was Mark 13.
And we're gonna read chapter 13.
By the way, this is the same Bible
I used through ministry college.
You can see I wrote,
I wrote, there's lots of little notes
and scribbles in here.
So Mark 13, as he, that is Jesus was leaving the temple.
One of the disciples said to him, look teacher,
what massive stones, what's magnificent buildings?
Do you see all of these great buildings replied Jesus?
Not one stone will be left on another.
Everyone will be thrown down.
As Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives,
opposite the temple, Peter, James, John and Andrew
asked him privately, tell us,
when will these things happen?
And what will be the sign
that they are about to be fulfilled?
Jesus said to them, watch out that no one deceives you.
Many will come in my name claiming I am he
and he will deceive many.
When you hear of wars and rooms of wars,
do not be alarmed, such things must happen,
but the end is still to come.
Nations will rise against nations
and kingdoms against kingdoms.
There'll be earthquakes in various places and famines.
These are the beginning of birth pains.
You must be on your guard.
You will be handed over to the local councils
and flogged in the synagogues.
On account of me and on account of me,
you will stand before governors and kings as witness to them.
And the gospel must first be preached to all nations.
Whenever you are arrested and brought to trial,
do not worry beforehand about what to say.
Just say whatever is given to you at the time
for you are not speaking but the Holy Spirit.
Brother will portray brother to the death
and father his child.
Children will rebel against their parents
and have them put to death.
All men will hate you because of me,
but he who stands firm until the end will be saved.
When you see the abomination that causes desolation,
standing where it does not belong,
let the reader understand,
then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.
Let no one on the roof of his house
go down into the house to take anything out.
Let no one in the field go back to get his cloak.
How dreadful it will be in those days
for pregnant women and nursing mothers.
Pray that this will not take place in winter
because these will be the days of distress,
unequaled from the beginning
when God created the world until now
and never to be equaled again.
If the Lord had not cut those days short,
no one would have survived.
But for the sake of the elect,
from whom he has chosen, he has shortened them.
At the time, if anyone says to you,
look, here is the Christ, or look, there he is.
Do not believe it.
For false Christ and false prophets will appear
and perform signs and miracles
to deceive the elect if that were possible.
So be on your guard.
I have told you everything ahead of time,
but in those days, following that distress,
the sun will be darkened,
the moon will not give its light,
and the stars will fall from the sky
and the heavenly bodies will be shaken.
At that time,
men will see the son of man coming in the clouds
with great power and glory.
He will send his angels and gather his elect
from the four winds and the ends of the earth
to the ends of heaven.
Now learn the lesson from the fig tree.
As soon as its twigs get tender and its leaves come out,
you know that summer is near.
Even so, when you see these things happening,
you know that it is near, right at the door.
I tell you the truth.
This generation will certainly not pass away
until all these things have happened.
This generation will not pass away
until all these things happen.
And let me just remind everyone,
they'll see the son of man coming in the clouds.
They'll see, you know, the sun will be darkened,
the moon will not give its light.
To me, in plain reading,
that's blatantly obvious that the end
was going to come within a generation.
What do you all think?
Absolutely.
It's funny.
I bring this up all the time.
I mentioned this movement called Preterism,
full Preterism, and they saw this
and the way they dealt with it is they said,
it did come, he did come, he came on the clouds.
It was a metaphor.
Yahweh wrote on the clouds in the Old Testament.
So they would find a way to rationalize Jesus' statements,
but, you know, just giving the problem here
to really stick it in your face.
And trust me, I tried to rationalize this
for several years as a full Preterist.
Acts chapter one, verse 11,
has Jesus literally ascended into the clouds.
They see it with their eyeballs
and it says in the same way,
the two angels say, what are y'all staring at?
This same Jesus that you see go off into the clouds,
he will come back in the same manner.
So you like literally, at least according
to this Luke acts author,
which is an early witness in the synoptic tradition,
which would be using Mark and Matthew, I tend to think.
But anyway, you don't have to go down that path.
An interpretation is that, you know,
literally he's coming back on clouds.
So, I mean, do you think Jesus actually flew
on a freaking cloud in the first century
and that the end of all things actually happened
that the new heavens and new earth?
Because remember, his words will be forever,
but heaven and earth will pass away.
Just, so you have to deal with this new heavens
and new earth, which then you have to reinterpret that.
You have to, there's so much nonsense
that's involved in trying to fix a simple,
he was wrong answer.
Yeah, so in my previous understanding,
like the Bible couldn't be wrong.
Like the Bible was perfect.
And I think a lot of people,
maybe even people watching this right now
might halt to that perspective.
And they might say, well, the Bible is like factual.
Like it says factual and you can't argue against it.
And funny enough, it was actually the morality
that was taught to me at church
that had me and that ended up having me reject it.
Pursue the truth, pursue what's good,
pursue like the line, don't like, don't,
and I followed that.
But then when I followed that,
unfortunately it led me to reject the faith.
It's wild how that works, isn't it?
It is.
Okay, so the next scripture, Matthew 24.
Jesus, it's the same story.
Jesus left the temple and was walking away
when these disciples came to him
and called for his attention to the buildings.
Do you see these things?
He said, I tell you the truth,
not one stone will be left on another,
every one of them will be thrown down.
As Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives,
the disciples came to him privately.
Tell us, they said, when will this happen?
And what will be this sign of your coming
and the end of this age?
Jesus answered, watch out that no one deceives you.
For many will come in my name,
claiming I am the Christ and will deceive many.
You will hear of wars and rumors of wars,
but see to it that you are not alarmed.
Such things must happen, but the end is still to come.
Nations will rise against nations
and kingdoms against kingdoms.
There will be famines and earthquakes in various places.
All these things are the beginning of birth pains.
Then you'll be handed over to be persecuted and put to death
and you'll be hated by all nations because of me.
So this is actually, I used to use this and say,
like as a gotcha to like,
because people would come to me
and like kind of like tease me for being Christian.
And then I would point out like, I'm being hated, bruh.
So you're like, you're fulfilling the prophecy, bruh.
Anyway, at that time,
many will turn away from their faith
and will betray and hate each other.
And many false prophets will appear and deceive many people.
Because of the increase of wickedness,
the love of most will grow cold.
But he who stands firm until the end will be saved.
And the gospel of the kingdom will be preached
in the whole world as a testimony to all nations
and then the end will come.
When you see standing in the holy place,
the abomination that causes desolation
is spoken through the prophet Daniel.
Let the reader understand.
Then let those in Judea flee to the mountains.
Let no one on the roof of his house
go down to take anything out of the house.
Let no one in the field go back to get his cloak.
How dreadful it will be in those days
for pregnant women and nursing mothers.
Pray that your flight will not take place in winter
or on the Sabbath.
For then there will be great distress,
unequal from the beginning of the world until now
and never to be equaled again.
If those days had not been cut short, no one would survive.
But for the sake of the elect, those days will be shortened.
At the time, if anyone says to you,
look, here is the Christ, or there he is.
Do not believe it.
For false Christ and false prophets will appear
and perform great signs and miracles
to deceive even the elect, if that were possible.
See, I have told you ahead of time.
So if anyone tells you, there he is, out in the desert,
do not go out.
Or here he is in the inner rooms.
Do not believe it.
For as lightning that comes from the east
is visible even in the west,
so will be the coming of the sun of man.
Wherever there is a carcass, there the vultures will gather.
Immediately after the distress of those days,
the sun will be darkened and the moon will not give its light.
The stars will fall from the sky
and heavenly bodies will be shaken.
At that time, the sign of the sun of man
will appear in the sky
and all the nations of the earth will mourn.
They will see the sun of man coming on the clouds
of the sky with power and great glory.
And he will send his angels with a loud trumpet call
and they will gather the elect from the four winds
from one end of the heavens to the other.
Now learn this lesson from the fig tree.
As soon as its twigs are tender
and its leaves come out, you know that summer is near.
Even so, when you see all these things,
you know that it is near, right at the door.
I tell you the truth.
This generation will certainly not pass away
until all these things have happened.
So again, you're seeing the same story
with a little bit more flair, a little bit.
It's developed a little bit now
because Matthew was written after Mark.
I've got one more description to read from this
and then I'm gonna get into a little bit
of some apologetics about this.
So Luke 21, five, this is shorter, five for 23.
Some of his disciples were remarking
on how the temple was adorned with beautiful stones
and with gifts dedicated to God.
But Jesus said, as for what you see here,
the time will come that not one stone
will be left on another.
Every one of them will be thrown down.
Teacher, they asked, when will these things happen?
And what would be the sign
that they are about to take place?
He replied, watch out that you're not deceived.
For many will come in my name,
claiming I am he and the time is near.
Do not follow them.
When you hear of wars and revolutions,
do not be frightened.
These things must happen first,
but the end will not come right away.
Then he said to them,
nation will rise against nation
and kingdom against kingdom.
It will be great earthquakes,
famines and pestilence in various places
and fearful events and great signs from heaven.
But before all this,
they will lay hands on you and persecute you.
They will deliver you to the synagogue and prisons
and you will be brought before kings and governors
and all on account of my name.
This will result in your being witnessed to them,
but make up your mind not to worry beforehand
how to defend yourself.
For I will give you words and wisdom
that none of your adversaries
will be able to resist or contradict.
You will be portrayed even by parents,
brothers, relatives and friends
and they will put some of you to death.
All men will hate you because of me,
but not a hair on your head will perish
by standing firm you will gain life.
When you see Jerusalem being surrounded by armies,
you will know that the desolation is near.
Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.
Let those in the city get out
and let those in the country not enter the city.
For this is the time of punishment and fulfillment
of all that has been written.
How dreadful it will be in those days
of pregnant women and nursing mothers.
There will be great distress in the land
and wrath against this people.
They will fall by the sword
and will be taken as prisoner to all the nations.
Jerusalem will be trampled on by the Gentiles
until the time of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
There will be a sign in the sun, moon and stars.
And on earth, nations will be in anguish and perplexity
at the roaring and tossing of the sea.
Men will faint from terror,
apprehensive of what is coming on the world.
For heavenly bodies will be shaken.
At that time, they will see the Son of Man
coming in the cloud with power and great glory.
When these things begin to take place,
stand up and lift up your head
because your redemption is drawing near.
He told them this parable.
Look at the fig tree and all the trees.
When they sprout leaves,
you can see for yourself and know that summer is near.
Even so, when you see these things happening,
you know that the kingdom of God is near.
I tell you the truth.
This generation will certainly not pass away
until all these things have happened.
We've just heard the same story three separate times.
The exact same thing with some slight differences, obviously.
Saying this generation will not pass away
until all these things happen.
And you may wonder like, so why is this the case?
Like why hasn't Jesus come back?
Like what is the reason this is here?
What are the things that you've heard, Derek?
Oh, there's tons of stuff.
I mean, he's trying to save more people, 2nd Peter.
There's so many things
and I'm sure you're gonna get to that.
There's, well, it doesn't mean generation,
doesn't mean generation.
It means like race of Jews
or there's always an excuse
and people trying to get out of it.
Jesus is just trying to get more people saved
and he didn't mean what you think he meant.
There's always ways out of it.
You know, the one scripture that really nails this too
is Matthew 16, 27 and 28.
Turn there and read that real quick.
That one right there is a fun one.
Matthew 16.
27 to 28.
Yeah, but you might wanna read 26 or something
just to lead up to so you know where we're at.
What good will it be for a man
if he gains the whole world yet forfeits his soul?
Or what can a man give in exchange for his soul?
For the son of man is going to come
in his father's glory with his angels
and then he will reward each person
according to what he has done.
I tell you the truth.
Some who are standing here will not taste death
before they see the son of man coming in his kingdom.
Right.
I mean, there's always an excuse
to try and get out of this one.
The excuse I've heard for that one
is the Holy Spirit was the son of man coming in his kingdom.
It was like the day I had to fast.
And I initially had that in there,
but I was like, no, no, I want this to be like ironclad.
I don't want anyone to get a wiggle out of this.
No, that is ironclad.
It's just like your Matthew 24, just like your Luke 21,
just like your Mark 13.
And the other ones that we're going to get into,
it's ironclad.
They need to make up, well, the transfiguration,
that's what it is.
Well, that's only six days later.
And guess what?
No one there died.
No one tasted death.
No one died except Judas.
If you want to go to the Pentecost one,
no one had died yet other than Judas.
But he says, some of you standing here,
I don't know, he should have just said
one of you standing here.
He doesn't.
Some of you standing here will not taste death
until you see the Son of Man coming in the glory of the Father
with his angels to repay each man according to his deeds.
Well, what the heck does that?
And then, I mean, it's like, what did he do at Pentecost?
He just poured out his spirit on a few people.
He didn't repay each man according to their deeds.
That sounds like judgment, not, you know,
here, I'm just going to make everyone here speak in tongues.
That's just, there's so many wiggles that they want to make
because what is the alternative?
Not good.
The alternative is it didn't happen.
And like, or like it didn't come to pass.
So the word generation there, like it says,
it even says in the footnotes of this,
or race, like at the bottom,
because scholars knew that there was a problem.
But the problem, like I asked any person who says,
well, it can mean race.
Okay, well, find me, like go to your Bible,
go to the Bible that you use and see,
does it translate it as race?
I can't find any mainstream Bible
that I know of that translated as,
this race will not pass away until all these things happen.
Like that, that's not how the Bible scholars translated.
Even this one translated as generation,
like to translate it as race or whatever,
you're actually, you're actually,
you're actually translating the Bible
to say the exact opposite of what the Bible says
in plain reading, the exact opposite.
So did Jesus walk on the water
or did he fall below the waves?
Did he resurrect or did he just die and end up in a tomb?
He really didn't pray in plain English.
This generation will not pass away
until they see the Southern men coming in the clouds.
And you interpret it to mean,
this generation will pass away,
and the next, and the next, and the next.
And in fact, it'll be over 2,000 years
before Jesus comes back.
If you can do that,
then why can you not do that with everything else?
Why can you not find a way to say like,
oh yeah, Jesus never walked on water,
he actually sunk.
There wasn't an empty tomb.
There was actually 30 Jesus in there.
Like you can literally make up, make anything work.
The reason why people do that is not for historical
or intellectually honest reasons,
but it's theological reasons.
It's saving the theology that they've already subscribed to.
No one does like a crash course on Christianity
and then becomes a Christian.
They're like, they're buying to,
usually they buy into Christianity
for like traditional reasons, family reasons.
They get delivered from drugs,
they have a spiritual experience.
Something happens to them,
and then they start to put the pieces together afterwards.
I just wanna make one comment
as we move into the next troubleshooting issue here
for this whole thing is that,
it must have been important enough to these authors
that they are retaining this tradition
of some type of early apocalyptic idea
that is attributed to Jesus,
where the end, the eschaton,
the eschatology, if you will,
of all things is supposed to be near.
What I find ironic and interesting
is that in these passages, there's partial truth
because the destruction of the Jerusalem temple did happen.
And the Jews were captured in the city,
obviously that didn't end well.
Anyone can read Josephus.
So you have this like clear,
there's some truth to this,
the stones will be thrown down.
Now, has that meant literally,
of course you could say was figuratively to say
like the buildings will just be destroyed,
and they were, you know, Rome squashed the temple
and the people in it, like a cockroach.
So you're like having to say, okay,
this author, people wanna say this is prediction of Jesus,
there's a lot of reasons scholars would say
this is why they think these gospels were written
after Jerusalem's destruction.
The demise of the Jews and the temple.
But then you have the other issue of like after that,
so that whoever the author is that's writing this
is saying, you see these signs,
Jesus, you know, talks about these signs,
the temple's destruction.
Well, all of these signs, it's not the end yet,
but as soon as all this happens,
the end is about to take place.
So the author is writing like Daniel in a way
where he's in that little Antiochus Epiphanes window
of 10 years in the second century BC.
They're getting all the facts right,
and then they're making some predictions.
And from there, it's wrong.
And that's the problem.
We're dealing with the same felled apocalyptic
kind of thinking there.
And so it kind of gives some scholars the inclination
to say, we think we might at least date this after 70,
but they would like not want to go too far after 70,
because after that destruction,
they're expecting this generation to somehow not pass
and that the end is supposed to happen.
And of course, it keeps not happening.
You have another verse, another chapter you want to bring up
that I'm sure kind of implies this.
And so you seem to Peter three, the day of the Lord.
So this is like, I love this because this is like the author
trying to like calm down the church.
Like guys, it's been 40 years.
Don't worry about this, just chill out.
So read what it says here.
Dear friends, this is now my second letter to you.
I have written both of them as reminders
to stimulate you to wholesome thinking.
I want you to recall the word spoken in the past
by the holy prophets and the command given by our Lord
and Savior through your apostles.
First of all, you must understand that in the last days,
scoffers will come scoffing and following
their own evil desires.
They will say, where is the coming he promised?
Ever since the fathers died, everything goes on
as it has since the beginning of creation.
That's what we're doing, Derek.
We're scoffing right now.
That's my favorite sin by the way to scoff.
But they will deliberately forget that long ago,
by God's words, the heavens existed
and the earth was formed out of water and by water.
But do not forget this one thing, dear friends.
With the Lord, a day is like a thousand years
and a thousand years is like a day.
The Lord is not slow in keeping his promise
as some understand slowness.
He is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish,
but everyone to come to repentance.
You pretty much are pointing out several things
that I've also gone through with my deconversion
and trying to understand this.
Like, there'd be no reason, first of all, in writing this.
If there weren't people at this time
actually scoffing saying, dude,
you guys said he's coming back.
What the heck, man?
Like, he ain't coming back.
What's up?
Why is he not here yet?
You guys promised.
He promised and it's not happening.
And so there's a problem.
And now they're doing exactly what you're saying
when you opened up about David Walk to America.
These authors themselves,
this is the problem with understanding the New Testament
because once you just allow the scripture to be the truth,
their BS excuse, if I can say it,
because I've lied to my parents
or tried to make excuses for whatever I didn't do right,
you make up an excuse.
They're making up an excuse to get Jesus
and the early church off the hook.
And people are reading the excuse as if it is the truth.
Well, you know, days like a thousand,
anything can go with that David Walk to America.
So what that means is he got an airplane
and he literally walked back and forth in the aisle
until he got to America.
Then he stepped off the airplane walking.
So he didn't stop walking.
He literally walked all the way to America.
That's what's happening here.
That's exactly what's happening.
And you can actually, what's funny is like,
if you follow this like narrative through,
you can just see, you can see it.
Like it goes right over to the very last chapter,
the very last part of the New Testament.
He who testifies to this thing say,
yes, I'm coming soon, amen, Lord Jesus,
the grace of the Lord Jesus and God's people, amen.
So it's like right there, like the New Testament,
it ends with like this like, I am coming soon,
I am coming soon, Jesus is coming soon.
And you can just clearly see that these,
like this was a big problem for early Christianity.
It was, it was-
I think it's interesting, this is stuff
I've really dug into pretty deep.
If you go to the book of Daniel chapter 12,
Daniel is told by the angel,
seal up the words of the prophecies in the scroll
for the time is far off.
Like it's, you know,
seal it up till the time of the end.
Now, mind you, Daniel is living according
to the narrative of Daniel
in the Babylonian transition to Persia.
So there's this like Babylon's getting crushed
and Persia's coming in, right?
Which is like five, 600 years before,
or 400, 500 years, I think it is,
before the time of the actual in, 490 years, technically.
You, so it 490 years.
I mean, the Bible knows how to do math
for anyone who's just kind of curious.
This is why the whole day is 1,000 years,
it makes no sense.
And it's such a get off the hook baloney answer.
It says 490 years.
Christians, Jews, you name it, man,
everybody's jumped on this at some point in history,
trying to calculate to figure it out, right?
We were in the end time stuff,
I'm sure you were into it as too.
Here's the thing.
Daniel's told by this angel in this narrative
in Daniel 12, to seal up the words
of the prophecy in the scroll.
The time isn't, it's a little ways off,
which is like what, 490 years.
We are 2,000 years removed from the book of Revelation.
You just read in Revelation 22,
do not seal up the words for the prophecy in this book.
Do not in the scroll, do not seal them up
for the time is at hand or near.
If Daniel's seal up the book, the angel says,
cause we're waiting till the end, that's 490 years.
And Revelation says, do not seal up the words.
The time is at hand.
How is it that Revelation, the time is at hand,
can be 2,000 years, but in the book of Daniel,
it's saying, seal it up the times far off, 490 years.
Like, come on, let's stop playing games, wake up.
Yeah, and it's one of those things where I remember,
you look at like, you look at an answer
and you read an apologetic for this
and you read like 20 pages
and you just feel like you just don't get an answer.
Like you just don't, there's no like answer to this.
Like even the people who try and work it out
and are trying to be honest, they kind of,
they just use a lot of like,
you just go around this big circle
by the end, like if people are convinced,
they want to be convinced, they'll be convinced
and if they're not, they're not.
So, yeah.
I mean, I love Revelation.
Even the first chapter does what you did at the end.
It like tells you, and the angel of the Lord told,
John on the island of Patmos, he says,
hey, write these things down for these things
must soon take place.
Yeah.
Pretty much he says like,
hey, you're gonna write this book,
you're gonna write all this material
and once you write it down,
because everything you're about to write down
is gonna happen soon.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And again, it's like, you know, it's again,
it's like, did Jesus cast out demons out of people
or did he pull them into people?
Like if it did Jesus heal the blind
or did he run around poking people in the eyes with a stick,
you know, did Jesus resurrect or stay dead?
Like it truly, if you're going to translate the Bible
to say the exact opposite of what it says in plain reading,
you have a problem in my opinion.
You have a big, big problem.
Well, this is exactly what Christianity has
with so many denominations, interpretations,
theologies, the whole nine.
You literally have early groups
that thought Peter and Paul's rife, right?
You've got like the Pseudo-Clementine homilies.
In this literature, which is fourth century,
fifth century, either way,
you have like clear polemics trying to say,
Paul's visionary experience,
you can't trust visionary experiences.
It could be an angel of light, which was demonic.
It could have been a demon that came to Paul.
Like they're already rationalizing trying to say
Peter was literally there with the Lord.
There's some people who think Jesus was an antichrist,
that he's not the real Messiah, he's the anti-Messiah.
And then you're like, hold on, what?
So like, it's endless.
Is God good?
Well, according to the Gnostics in early sect of Christians,
they say God, the dimmy urge was some of them,
was an evil creator.
And if there's a God above that God,
that's the God of Jesus, a God of love.
So Jesus' father was a God of love
because all they did was read the Old Testament
and saw real quick, hold on,
kill men and women and children and lying spirits sent
and bad evil things this God was doing.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, that's not my God.
That's a bad God.
So you have an evil God and it will endlessly
come up with interpretations if you live within the bubble.
Yeah, a hundred percent.
There's actually, you know,
you've had a professor by them and on a bunch of times
and he said, and I quote,
Jesus fully expected that the history of the world
as we know it, as well as the way he knew it,
was going to come to a screeching halt
that God was going to soon intervene
in the affairs of this world,
overthrowing the forces of evil
in a cosmic act of judgment,
destroy huge masses of humanity.
Moreover, Jesus expected this cataclysmic end of history
would come in his own generation,
at least during the lifetime of his disciples.
So that's a quote by Bart Ehrman.
Bart is, I think Bart's hit the money on the head.
It sounds like there's some other problems as well, David.
Can you tell us something other than apocalyptic stuff?
Is there any moral problems
that led you down a path of seeing an issue?
Yeah, so I guess part of my deconstruction was,
you know, I went through ministry college
and one of the things that happened in ministry college
was I met one of my best friends
who was actually closeted.
He was a closeted gay man.
He'd been gay his whole life,
and he was, I remember the first time he told me
he wrote a note.
We were trying to ask him about his life or whatever,
and he said he's got some secrets,
and he wrote this note,
and then he left the room when we opened up,
and it just said, I used to be gay.
But that was kind of a lie,
and it was just through ministry college.
He was always gay.
He'd never had a partner.
He'd always remained in the closet.
He was a Christian,
but he was finding it really hard to rectify with his faith.
When I went to his house, he had countless books on
pray the gay way and how to become straight
and accepting your true self and all these things, right?
He'd always struggled with depression and anxiety,
and we came to this moment
where Australia was voting on the rights
for LGBT folks to be able to get married,
and I was kind of processing my faith,
kind of deconstructing at the time.
This was very, very, very confrontational,
and a lot of my other LGBT friends,
but let's go back a little bit.
So I was like laughing the day we were over my house
and we're having like a barbecue
or watching a movie or something,
and I said, oh, look, we've all come so far
since ministry college.
We're all pretty much different people.
And I said, if you could go back in time
and give yourself some advice 10 years ago,
what would you say?
And trigger warning for anyone,
but he said, I would tell myself to do myself.
And the conversation just,
just the mood shifted obviously in the room.
And I said, what do you mean?
And he said, I would tell myself
that nothing is ever going to change.
That I'll always be gay.
And what point do I have in living life
when my parents die?
I should just, I've got no one to live for.
And I went, dude, I gave him,
don't kick off the whole talk.
And I knew that he was struggling with depression
and he'd had some very strong suicidal thoughts at times.
But just to hear something like that, that really shocked me.
And so, after that conversation, I went away and I said,
no, we need to really look at this.
This isn't just something we can like hand wave away
when it comes to biblical morality.
Does the Bible condemn homosexuality?
Like, and if so, is it just for a time?
So I went away and I bought some books
and I started researching with about homosexuality
in the Bible, trying to help him kind of, I guess,
rectify his faith with what happened
with his personal identity.
And what we soon discovered,
and he was having talks with some of the elders at church,
is that there's a lot of things that we discovered.
But essentially, some of the things that I noticed is,
wait a second, the Bible says that women
need to cover their heads in prayer,
but the church kind of got rid of that doctrine.
And women are allowed to speak in church.
That was just for a time.
But I'm not asking, but homosexuality is homosexuality,
not for a time when they say, no, homosexuality is eternal.
So anyway, the more and more we looked into it,
the more and more the water seemed murky.
So the word that Paul uses for homosexuality is malochoi.
I think it's called malochoi.
I'm not, I don't know how to speak it.
And it literally translates to soft in ancient usage.
And it could refer to a range of characteristics.
And then there is a verse,
asenokotai, asenokotai, I think it is.
It is a more obscure term.
It is a compound word that literally translates to man better.
And it is believed to have been coined by Paul himself.
So given the structure of the word and the context,
many scholars interpret it as a reference to men
who have sex with other men.
So there's no reference of this before Paul mentions this word,
but we think that's what it means.
And another thing is like Jesus never mentioned homosexuality.
He mentioned a lot of things.
He mentioned like the slave master dynamic,
which by the way, some of the verses that we read earlier,
if you continue on a little bit, he talks about slavery.
So Jesus seemed to not mind about slavery
because it's all through the Old Testament.
And in Jesus' mind, slavery still existed.
Jesus never mentioned it.
And when I would bring this to pastors,
they would say ridiculous things.
They would say things like,
well, the reason why Jesus never mentioned homosexuality
is because there was no homosexuality
in Jerusalem at the time.
But later there was with Paul.
It was bizarre.
Like it was really weird.
And I was like, but I was like,
didn't Jesus know that his words we've written down
and used to argue about these things?
Like it was bizarre.
So then I started looking at like the Old Testament.
So there are a few verses in the Old Testament.
Leviticus 18-22,
do not have sexual relations with a man
as one does with a woman that is detestable.
Leviticus 20-13,
if a man has sexual relations with ships with a man
as one does with a woman,
both of them have done words detestable.
They are both to be put to death.
Their blood will be on their own heads.
So I was like, whoa, so like, wait, wait, well,
yeah, you're killing people for being gay,
like in the Old Testament.
And again, you don't really pick this up
when you're reading through the Bible in ministry college
because you just kind of like
trying to get through the assignments and trying to,
you know, you just kind of play,
but when it comes into real tangible,
like you know someone who's really struggling
and they've struggled their entire life
with quote unquote being a gay.
Like it's just ridiculous.
So then I was like, okay, well,
there are lots of things
that we reject in the Old Testament.
So I started noticing that like the Old Testament
has verses on how to beat your slaves.
The Old Testament instructs us not to wear fabric
of two mixed blends, two mixed materials.
The Old Testament requires the spilling of blood,
the death penalty for anyone who works on the Sabbath.
So you're working on the Sabbath.
You're, it's Sunday or Saturday
or whatever the Sabbath is for them.
And you pick up some sticks, death penalty.
If you have an unruly child,
you're supposed to take them to the edge of town
and everyone's supposed to gather at the edge of town
and stone them to death.
Like the Old Testament started to seem
a little immoral to me.
You know, I had a condemned homosexuality,
like blatantly like in the Old Testament,
but also condemned like wearing mixed fabrics.
It also says in the Old Testament, you know,
take the virgin girls for yourself with plunder,
like sex slavery,
but like we don't accept that as like correct today.
So like this whole moral question became like quite serious.
I started engaging with people on Facebook
about the same-sex marriage public site
and I literally had 24 people,
24 separate friends from church challenge me and say,
you're wrong for X, Y, Z reason.
And then I would go, okay.
And meanwhile I'm deconstructing my faith in all this.
And I would go, okay, let's have a conversation.
And we would have a conversation.
I would show them statistics about like same-sex couples
adopting children and the children turning out to be fine.
I'd show them like thing up, statistical statistic.
And we get to the point of the conversation
where they've agreed with all the statistics.
They've agreed with everything.
They've acknowledged it.
And it's at the point where they either need
to bring more evidence
so we can continue down that chain of thought
or they needed to change their mind.
And what would happen is they would usually disappear.
I would message them, I would comment.
They would just stop talking to me.
They just didn't want to change their mind on that issue.
I was hoping to change my mind.
I'd never got to, no one ever presents evidence
for why I should change my mind.
But what was more heartbreaking is I would see
those same people in other common threads the next day
giving out their fake talking points and fake statistics.
They agree that I debunked the previous day.
Like it just, to me, it was the most dishonest way
to engage with a community of people
who were at a greater risk
for like depression, suicidal anxiety.
And I just found it disgusting.
I found it absolutely disgusting.
And in the meantime, Amy is like asking me,
like, why do you care so much?
And I like, it wasn't just, it wasn't just,
I had other Christian friends who were gay,
lesbian friend of mine who, same thing,
struggling with suicidal thoughts
because of how the way the church was treating the Bible
and treating it as like the perfect word of God
that homosexuality was detestable.
Like, is this a trained behavior
that I just, that homosexuality is wrong,
that I think homosexuality is wrong,
that I was taught that homosexuality is wrong?
Is that trained?
Is like, have I just been like brainwashed by the church?
Like, we even, sorry, we even had a pastor quote
from this text called The Gay Manifesto.
It was a satirical piece from the 70s
and they were acting as if it was like this,
like it was actually like this agenda
that the LGBT community had.
They were trying to turn people gay and all this stuff.
Like, and literally we've pointed out to this dude,
he used to be my counselor at church actually,
but he would quote The Gay Manifesto,
we would point out to him and he would acknowledge the point.
So he read it, that this was a satirical piece
that did, this was a joke, this was like a skit.
This was not actually like a manifesto written
by the leaders of the LGBT community, whatever that is.
This was not that.
And then next day, he'd still be quoting it
as if like, like he just didn't care.
He didn't care about reality.
He didn't care about facts.
He didn't care about like the real world consequences
of his barbaric belief system.
And that like, that pissed me off.
I can dig it.
I can totally relate.
I engaged in doubt with Christians who, you know,
they, they're stuck in their ways in terms of what they believe.
And I think we all have at some point been like that,
but it's like once you start seeing it and you're like,
okay, well, if I'm not going to change their mind,
I am changing mine.
And that means I have to move to somewhere different.
And of course they're glad to shoo you off.
They're happy to see you finally stop being a pain
in their butt.
I actually encapsulated all of this in a Reddit post
that says, am I an atheist now?
All my religious friends hate me.
And I, and I talk about this very thing
and it's still there and you can read it.
Okay.
So that was, that was one thing that was homosexuality,
but the last thing that really like that,
that really did it for me is, is misogyny.
I remember after ministry college, I was like,
you know what, in ministry college, you're like,
you're flat out, you're so busy.
I want to really soak in the word of God.
I want to really look at the New Testament
and just soak in its message.
So I decided for the first time to read the Bible
from cover to cover, like in a, in a very purposeful attempt.
And I got up to one Timothy two, okay.
And let me just read one Timothy two,
one Timothy two, verse nine.
I also want women to dress modestly
with decency and propriety, not with braided hair
or gold or pearls or expensive clothes,
but with good deeds appropriate for women
who profess to worship God.
First of all, that statement there disagree
with every worship leader, every worship pastor,
every pastor I saw on any stage and Hillsong
in like Bethel and any everything.
They all will make-
If you're not like an Amish or a Puritan at the,
you know, you're not really trying to practice.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then it says,
a woman should learn in quietness and full submission.
I do not permit a woman to teach
or to have authority over a man.
She must be silent.
Okay. So I knew the apologetics from this
because I can, I went through ministry college.
The reason this was was because men and women
were separate in the early churches
and the women weren't as educated because of society.
And then they had to like lean over and ask their husbands
and they were disrupting the service.
And it was like, so it's like,
so what this verse is actually saying is like,
Hey, just like, just like quieten down a little bit
and just like ask your husband when you get home
to explain things if you don't fully get it.
That's the apologetic.
And it was actually being really nice, you know?
Like that's, that's, it's really nice.
And I'm like, okay.
But then I kept reading
for Adam was formed first, then Eve.
And Adam was not the one deceived,
but it was the woman who was deceived and became a sinner.
But women will be saved through childbearing
if they continue in faith, love and holiness with propriety.
Whoa. Okay.
All right. Hang on.
I was told in ministry college
that those verses that women should not teach,
they should not braid their hair,
they should not make themselves look pretty
was just for a time.
And it's not relevant anymore.
But hang on a sec.
This gives the reason.
And the reason was, was Adam was formed first,
then Eve and Eve was deceived.
That's still relevant today.
That's still works today.
That's still the same reasoning still applies today.
So I came to, to a, a female leader in the church.
And I said, and I asked,
and they said the game in the same thing.
It was that was for a time.
And I said, was homosexuality just for a time?
No. And no homosexuality was not for a time.
Cause that's a moral issue.
Well, so is the first supposed sinner who ate of the fruit.
I mean, women are forever stained
by this very verse you're describing.
And told, spread your legs and pop out babies.
Yeah.
Cover your head and shut your mouth for all time.
So when I read this, when I read this,
I was like, okay, I disagree with this.
I don't think this is right.
I think that this is wrong.
And then I realized, well, if I think this is wrong,
I need to either one, change my perspective,
like change my outlook,
or two, the Bible is wrong in some way.
And, and that stayed in the back of my mind
for the longest time.
And I realized that I couldn't look at the Bible
as like the perfect word of God anymore
if those things were not also true.
To sum up what I've heard you say today.
Number one, Jesus made some predictions
or at least according to the gospels,
Jesus made some predictions and he was wrong.
And several times the gospels repeated this wrong.
And we see them jumping over doing gymnastics
to try and save it and they were wrong.
And everybody's still trying to save it and they are wrong.
Number two, you had a very close friend you love
and that is dear to you.
And you recognize that your moral compass
is far more advanced toward people
who do not fit a category that this church
or the literature is trying to paint in a certain way,
at least it's been interpreted this way.
Then also you have the misogynistic approach.
So you have women being used as baby-making machines
who need to shut their mouth and be obedient to their husbands
because they're the cause for why sin is even here
to begin with.
So all humans that are females screwed us up.
Homosexuality is deserved to die
and homosexuals deserve to die and Jesus was wrong.
And so you have this combination
that's a three punch knockout
that forces you to have to reevaluate everything.
And just to really drive this home,
I've got two last things I wanna mention.
One, women were given a painful childbirth
and painful periods because they ate them
because Eve ate the fruit, this is the mythology, right?
What did animals ever do?
Why do some animals have painful births
and painful periods, right?
Kind of like, if anything, does that pre-revolution?
I don't know, that just seems very strange
that animals also seem to have the same problems,
at least the way they do.
Why do animals practice what we call homosexuality?
Same sex?
Exactly, exactly.
And secondly, so imagine that you're an all-knowing,
all-powerful creator of the universe
and you need to give instructions
on how you should handle something as complicated as,
not complicated, but as barbaric as like, okay?
Deuteronomy 22, if a man happens to meet in a town,
a virgin pledged to be married and sleeps with her,
you shall take both of them to the gate of town
and stone them to death.
The girl, because she was in town
and did not scream for help.
And the man, because he violated another man's wife.
You must purge the evil from among you.
So again, the man is stone to death
because he violated another man's wife.
Forget about what she went through.
And she has put to death for being raped and not screaming.
Right?
Verse 25, but if out in the country,
a man happens to meet a girl,
pledged to be married and sleeps with her,
only the man who has done this shall die.
Do nothing to the girl.
She has committed no sin deserving of death.
If a man happens to meet a virgin
who was not pledged to be married and sleeps her
and they are discovered,
he shall pay the father 50 shekels of silver.
He must marry the girl, for he has violated her.
He can never divorce her as long as he lives.
Hmm.
Yeah, it's just like...
Choke a girl and make her go unconscious in a city
and then have sex with her.
Yeah.
And oh, if you want to marry someone bad enough,
if you're a creep in the ancient world,
just shoot her as long as she's not already engaged.
And there you go, you'll have her for life.
As long as you have 50 shekels of silver
to pay the father for the damage you've done to his property.
Yeah, and I can imagine in the ancient world,
if the father thought that, well,
this is the kind of backwards,
ways that we were at one point,
I'm not judging the past, I'm saying,
this is not how life should be lived today, right?
That's the point.
I think you're with me on is that,
I could even see the father going, I'm screwed.
If he doesn't have 50 shekels, I'm screwed.
Nobody's gonna want to marry her anyway.
I mean, do you have 20 shekels?
Can you give me some?
Well, he could become the slave, you know?
Right.
That's true.
So in short, like, if you, for me,
this was the part where the Bible started to fall apart
for me and we didn't even get into like science
and how we know that it gets everything wrong
about cosmology and the Big Bang Theory
and the earth and evolution and like all those things
that are like, we didn't even get into any of the science.
But for me, this is where my story,
this is where it started to fall apart for me
and the Bible was such a pinnacle thing.
Now, again, you can be a Christian
and just not hold the Bible as the perfect word of God.
Fine.
Or you can just hold that it's telling things
that aren't true.
Fine.
There's nothing wrong with that.
Like that's, that works.
But for me, my Christianity was so intertwined
with this being the perfect word of God
that, yeah, it started to fall apart for those reasons.
The, if you believe that the Bible's perfect word of God,
Jesus's message failed, like Jesus's prophecy failed.
It is a failed prophecy.
Jesus isn't coming back.
He didn't come back.
And secondly, it fails as a moral guide.
Like, there is no one today that believes
that the verse that I just read in Deuteronomy
is acceptable.
And if you were to say, well, that was just for a time
or God was meeting people where they're at.
Well, I thought God never changed.
I thought God's laws never changed.
I thought God was the same yesterday, today and tomorrow.
It was moral back then.
It should be moral today if God never changes.
Well, I'm glad things do change
and I'm glad that people are changing.
And I'm glad that these religions, you know,
people are starting to have to do something different
because if not, they're going extinct.
And that's what has to happen.
For me, it's like progress is better,
progression is better than trying
to make these things moral when they're not.
If the sky is wrong about us coming,
shouldn't you start wondering about,
is he wrong about his resurrection?
And are we going to be resurrected in the end?
Isn't that the point of Christianity is to overcome death?
I don't know why you need to be a Christian at that point.
It's just my question.
I don't get it personally.
Same.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, let us know what you think
in the comment section about David's testimony,
his story and some of the problems that he ran into.
Did you also run into some of these problems?
Are there other verses in the Bible
that in particular raise red flags for you
along your deconversion path?
What were some of those troubling things?
Me and David will be looking in the comment section
to see what you say.
Go subscribe to Deep Drinks podcast.
Be sure to check it out.
I'll make sure there's a pin comment down below
with David's comment.
And let him know that MythVision sends you.
So the next live stream, the next episode,
go hit that subscribe and bell button and let him know,
say, hey, I was sent from Derek or MythVision
and I just wanted to say, I enjoyed your discussion
over there.
Also, let him know what you think.
So thank you so much and never forget,
we are MythVision.
MythVision.
Love it.
