It's the Maccabees who really are the ones during the second century who are going to
bring Torah to the center of the community. Before that, even though Ezra Nehemiah says it was,
you know, in keeping with the divine plan after they had been conquered, they repent and return,
but we know that's not the case.
There is a community, they write to Jerusalem, they have, they worship Yahweh, but they worship
Yahweh's wife too. They give money to sacrifices to Khnum and other Egyptian gods and so forth. It seems
they have a lot of different things that are just clearly idolatrous. And the priests in
Jerusalem and the authorities in Jerusalem say, they should say, we would expect them to say,
we have nothing to do with you backslides. We will have nothing to do with your community. We
are not going to support you to build a temple to Yahweh and his wife. The only temple, according
to the Torah, is to be built in Jerusalem. We go back to one family. Now that we're defeated and
conquered, we got to come together. We were a family and nation that's new. We don't have narratives
of peoples in relation to other peoples like we have in Herodotus, in Thucydides, and in Greek
history writing. We don't have that in the Ancient Near East, but we have in the Bible.
Then the question is, so what's the connection?
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert. Today,
I have Dr. Jacob L. Wright joining us today. How are you, my friend?
I'm doing well, Derek. Nice to be on your show.
I'm excited to have you here. In fact, you have a book that you've just launched that is so important
on answering the question of why the Bible was written. Period. Can you tell us a little bit
about this book? The question why is really the central question for me. The books that we have
on the Bible, one of the biggest books is Who Wrote the Bible? It's by Dick Friedman, Richard
Elliot Friedman. He says there's a scribe under Jeremiah Baruch and he tries to give a name to
it. I think all that kind of speculation is not helpful. Who wrote the Bible? Well, my answer
is a bunch of nameless scribes, generations of scribes who we know nothing about. Trying to
put a name on it is really unhelpful. There are a lot of books on who, where, when the Bible was
written. That's a big part of my project. Then there's also this what question, what the Bible
teaches. There's this war between, is the morality of the Bible something that we should adopt in
our societies? No, the morality of the Bible is really so old and awful and so forth. There's that
war there. My question is why? Why was the Bible written? That question has never really been
addressed in biblical scholarship. The reason why, it's a really a minefield. To try to explain
why a text was written goes to the heart of theological questions. Let's face it, there are
a lot of biblical scholars who may not belong to a religious kind of affiliation, but they still
are guided by presuppositions that are very theological and they avoid issues that are going
to offend believers. I'm not trying to offend believers, but I am trying to tell the truth
because I think it's helpful and to explain why we have a Bible. I hope that it helps. I think
it's getting a lot of resonance with people. It's one of the best five books on religion,
according to the publishers weekly. This is a book on the Bible and it also goes and debunks
hypotheses and long held traditions and theological positions and it's still getting a lot of traction
among people who care. Dr. Wright, your book is also up there for 2023 on the New Yorker,
so this is a very important book. It's resonating with many people. I hope people watching this
right now will go down in the description, get you a copy, read it for yourself, and let us
know what you think about it because I'm telling you this question and how we explain this. I think
we'll solve a lot of things and change a lot of things within the scholarship of the field that
I've read. Can you tell us, at least give us the tease as to what led up to writing the Bible?
Defeat. That's my puppy Hank just walking out. Defeat is the answer for why we have a Bible.
There was a kingdom, there were actually two kingdoms, the northern kingdom of Israel
and the southern kingdom of Judah and they were both destroyed by empires, the Assyrian empire,
and then the Babylonian empire and because these empires destroyed these kingdoms,
that's why we have a Bible. We don't have a Bible because it goes back to Moses receiving revelation.
A lot of people now maybe don't agree with that position but they still try to trace old text
back to King David and Solomon's court and so forth. Maybe we have some old text but they
have been thoroughly reshaped as a roadmap for survival for a community that had been conquered.
Now that's a problem for many people, you can imagine, right? It explains all the Bible,
all of the theology, all the religious innovation, the very fact that we have a text.
It explains it by natural reasons, very humanistic reasons and for people who aren't easily offended
like the Adam Gopnik at the New Yorker, they find real truth and meaning from this because
the truth does help us, right? I guess religious conservatives might be offended by it. I get
some emails, quite a few, every day about this. I get someone praying for me hoping that I'll accept
Jesus. I'm Jewish but Jesus was a nice Jewish guy but I'm not going to accept any kind of stuff
that doesn't get to the heart of truth and the truth is going to set us free. I really do believe
that and the truth of my project is the Bible is a human response, an ingenious one, but a human
response to defeat. It can be thoroughly explained by a community living on the margins who don't
know how to survive when empires are no longer allowing them to have kingdoms and to have
territorial sovereignty and palace and so forth and they reorient their attention
from the king to a god and they reorient their attention to a text. You actually are in the
vein of exactly what Mithvisions is all about. We want to solve the riddles of ancient history
in the sands of time with umprints, not with abracadabra, ghost and mystical kind of explanations
and this is right in the vein of how do we explain this if we, you know, our analogy here,
Scooby Doo growing up. I used to watch a lot of it and there's always a ghost, a demon,
a monster people are always searching for and at the end of the episode, almost every episode,
we find them unmasked and there's a human behind the story of the spiritual and so
we're aiming at it that way trying to explain this human-wise and it was defeat that led this way.
Your book chronicles different texts and goes through different material over time. Can you
kind of paint a bit? Yeah, let's lay out a bit. So there are four parts of the book and in the
first part I go through all of the biblical narratives side by side with the archaeological
record and the historical sources and I show how the two really diverge drastically. If you look
at an introduction to the Bible that's being taught within colleges and seminaries and so forth,
they're not helpful because what they do is they begin with the narrative and try to show
where overlaps, where it doesn't, but it's kind of just a messy thing. What we try to do as
critical scholars is to separate that. Separate the archaeology and let the archaeological record
speak. The pottery speak. Pottery is the stuff that we find. That's the most important stuff because
it allows us to date things and then allow the text on its own to have its message and we try
to then to come back and say, so when can we date this text on the basis of the archaeological record?
The text that we have has been transmitted. The oldest copies we have we found around the time of
Jesus, but scholars and everybody believes they go way, they go farther back. How much farther back
is the question? I don't think it goes back to King David and Solomon and all these kings like
they're trying to argue and the reason why they're trying to argue that is because they don't want
it to be just about defeat. If it originated somewhere in the sands of time and what have you
and it can be traced to a time of where the kingdom was prospering and flourishing and all of that,
then it could be someone sitting under a tree thinking about what is true, what is right,
and coming up with this. But if it's all a response to trauma, collective trauma, and a way to bring
communities together, that's problematic because it sounds like social engineering. Well, social
engineering happens a lot and it can be problematic and there can be good kinds of things and this
is a text that has problems and there's good stuff to it, but it's thoroughly human. So in the first
part of the book, I go through the archaeological record and I show all these archives that we have
going all the way back, for example, to the Ammanah letters from Egypt that show that Egypt was
actually in the land. Israel couldn't have escaped Egypt because when they go to Canaan,
the Egyptians are there waiting for them during that time. And I look at different archives and
through the history, that's the first part, and then I start talking about after defeat. What were
the steps that they took to move their attention and orientation from a kingdom to in the palace
in King David to the stuff that we have in the books of Genesis, Exodus, all of that stuff.
And that is this prehistory that they create in order to show that, hey, we were a people
before there was a kingdom, we can also be a people now. And so they construct a past that is
mythic. And you know very well that myths do contain valuable insights, but let's be honest
about not trying to make them in some way mixing the kind of historicity and so forth. And all of
my colleagues, not all of them, I shouldn't say, but many of them just get fuzzy around those details.
And I think it's helpful. I know that you've had people on the show who are more, you know,
akin with my approach that we need to be very clear about these things. We're not trying to offend
people. And if you are offended, then maybe you should grow up. I move on that second part too,
looking at how the Bible comes emerges around the kinds of questions that emerge in this time
of imperial occupation. You know, the Persian Empire is controlling the world. And then there's
this little community around Jerusalem and the north and so forth. And they're working at their
issues. And those two other parts are just looking at the different kinds of,
what are the themes of the Bible? Let's look at various kinds of things that people are
really concerned about and show how they actually are responses to defeat, to conquest. And I go
through each one of them from theology to all of the kinds of things around books that you would
never imagine were like a response to defeat. And I say, look it, this is the best explanation.
This is really interesting to consider and think for the viewer. You kind of have this repetitive
theme of restoration. Oh crap, we screwed up, boom, exile or some type of punishment. Oh, boom,
God sends help, whether it's judges, whether it's prophets, whether it's heroes or a king,
whoever it is, he's trying to send them help. And this idea of over and over exile, restoration,
exile, restoration, all the way from Genesis, really until you get to these late prophets
and dealing with Persia and stuff. And I kind of wanted you to tease us with some of those
examples like, I'll give you an example. I interviewed John Collins, right, flew up there,
saw him the week he was retiring, he handed me a bunch of books to take home. I felt like a lucky
guy. And I asked him, hey, do you think the Exodus ever happened? He laughs, of course not.
I don't think the Exodus happened. Well, what do you think it was? And I probably putting words
in his mouth, I shouldn't. But I think he said something like a king who was exiled from Israel
was sent to Egypt. He escaped during some trial or bad situation. His people were like, get out,
and they were going to kill him if not. So he left Egypt and then later he comes back.
So based on this real possible king that really had to go to Egypt to escape,
then comes back and he's restored. And I can't remember if this is...
It's in the Bible. There is something like that. It's in the Book of Kings. Yeah.
So that was his thing. He thought, well, it could have been then. He's not certain. But your point
is to say, post defeat, here we are exiled to Babylon. We get rescued. Notice they always give
the credit to Yahweh for what Marduk. If you actually look at the sources, it's like Marduk
was the one who actually did these things. But Yahweh gets the credit. And then they're coming
back to restore and build Jerusalem. And it's always the elites who are writing this stuff.
Do you think the Exodus with Moses is actually a Persian, potentially post-Persia,
even Greek invention of a story? Like you said, they're including the mythical history
of the past. Good question. So what Professor Collins says, where he tries to come up with a
scenario is, I think, helpful. Yes, the Exodus story is very much a product of the Persian period
and later, especially the way we know it. The Book of Exodus, we can see it being shaped in the
Persian period. What Collins is saying is that there has always been this escaping the Levant,
Canaan, and going down to Egypt, because Egypt was a place of asylum. And then coming back.
And that's a routine that we see all the way through the Bible and also in extra biblical
sources. So the idea of an Exodus is really not that new. It's just a common thing of people who
live in Egypt, moving out and coming back in and all of that. And the Bible picks up on that. We've
made a big deal about it. And the reason why we made a big deal about it, it's about salvation.
Christians love the idea of the Exodus because it means God saved a people from bondage,
and they spiritualize it. And if the Exodus didn't happen, then it's possible that Jesus also did
will not. And that salvation, I explain, but is very much an attempt to say, no, our kings
were not the ones who did this. Our God is the one who did this. Why? Because our kings no longer
exist, right? The kingdom has been wiped out. So they have to say, well, they don't have to,
but they come up very creatively with this. They say that long before we ever had a kingdom,
we were in Egypt. It's a common thing. A lot of us come from Egypt. We were there in slavery
and who brought us out, who saved us. The word is salvation, saved us. Yesha. The same name
is Yeshua, Jesus, Savior. But the one who saved us was, according to Christians, Jesus's father,
Yahweh. And that is, like I said, an attempt to say, well, the real center of our community
is our transcendent God, not a political institution like that has been wiped out by the empire.
And you say that too often, you get emails. You get some real death threat type emails
because, you know why? It makes sense. It really resonates. People read this and say,
yes, that makes sense. I have to say that when I read, started to read in this stuff
when I was in college, it really was eye-opening too. And I expected that scholars would continue
along in that vein. But it's so strange that they still are trying to be fuzzy, trying to say,
oh, let's just be clear-cut. Conquest is the point of departure for the Bible.
Not Davidic conquest of other peoples, like they say, but the Davidic dynasty being conquered.
And there are two conquests. One is from 722 by the Assyrians. That's the northern kingdom.
And so that kind of move towards responding to defeat and moving away from the palace
is already embedded there a little bit. But it would be wrong to say that the Bible goes back
to 722 or around that time, because whatever that was was just an idea. Maybe a little bit of text,
but very little. What really snowballs into the corpus that we have is in the Persian period,
it in the Hellistic period. And it's not minimalism that I'm trying to argue for necessarily,
but I think we need to be a little bit more courageous in stating the facts. And the facts are
the Bible really is through and through a survival manual for a community that no longer has a kingdom.
You know, this kingdom idea, I hear many scholars debate whether or not there was ever a united
kingdom initially, or if there were two disparate kingdoms side by side. So I must ask you,
my friend, what is your stance on the United Kingdom? The United Monarchy, the United Kingdom is
probably not what we use because it's too much like England, but the United Monarchy is
a huge thing for people. I never understood it. Why is that so important? And I think it's a lot
about David. And I wrote a book on David too. And it's like, I never quite understood the infatuation
with David. I try to show David, he was just a warlord, kind of an early mafioso who had his band
and he went around and he carved out a little kingdom. And there was nothing about Goliath and
nothing about Israel. And either he's totally Judean, that really pissed people off that David has
nothing to do with Israel. And I developed that idea in my book, this book we're talking about.
So the United Kingdom or the United Monarchy is an attempt, I try to show, of Judah, right?
There's two kingdoms. Judah tries the Judean kingdom and thereafter tries to say we were already
at one time connected. Jerusalem was the capital that our God chose. The Davidic dynasty was the one
that he chose to be the ruler over the nation. And it's all an attempt to bring people to Jerusalem,
to the Davidic dynasty, and say the reason we have two kingdoms was because Israel sinned,
the Northern Kingdom sinned and they left us. That resonates with people really well too,
because it just makes sense. It makes sense to say we're not trying something new. We're going
back to the way it was before, right? And that's the same kind of principle that we have with the
five books of Moses. We can be a people without a kingdom because we were in the past. And so they
create a mythic past in order to say what we're doing in the present is not new, because no one
wants to try out something new. And so the Davidic kingdom idea, the United Monarchy, well the kingdoms
can be joined because they were already joined a long time ago in the most glorious period of our
history and then they broke apart and divided. Well, the archaeological record makes that very
problematic. There's nothing to support a United Monarchy. And you have all these guys arguing
and some of our critical scholars occupying huge positions at public universities. They have religious
backgrounds. You have to look at some of the professors where they come from in their training.
And you see that many of them came from seminary and they still have religious affiliations and so
forth. They're not bar-ermans. They haven't left the fold of that. They still hold on to that at some
level. The way they do it is just to make things fuzzy. To say, well, it could be a small United
Kingdom or David, it's like, it's just such a neat principle to set out. This is by the Davidic
dynasty to say that we are the ones who are supposed to rule. We already did it at the beginning. We
broke apart and we need to go back to the God ordained plan as it was all along. And that
principle is then picked up in a later point by the people who are trying to say the covenant,
Sinai, the laws, the Ten Commandments, Genesis, all of that. That is where we're going back to,
even though that's a mythic past that is even more grandiose than the one about the United
Monarchy. Two things come to mind with what you just said, powerful. Is post-Persia going into the
Hellenistic period, let's just say Persian Hellenistic for the sake of argument, because I
think it's a fuzzy area in terms of fully knowing how to nail it.
I think they're basically the same. You have an empire that had been conquered by
Alexander the Great and basically things are the same. So it's very hard to distinguish between
Persian and Hellenistic stuff. And so I'm looking at this and two things I think of, and one of them
will I think will tackle before we address this issue about the United Monarchy idea. I'm curious
to know, post-defeat, they're looking at these massive empires who have a working political
system that seems to be better than what they have. So I don't know about you, but I imagine
people in failure are not only probably living with, let's just say, animosity toward the larger
people, but also they have to compete in order to even be anybody they got to compete and they
see it's working. So they model stuff off of the empires in which conquered them,
but also they want to spin it. They want to give their own twist on it. They create a mythical
past, a history. And I think about the Samaritans and I think about the Jews. We hear this United
Monarchy. I wondered, and this is complete speculation, I wonder if they invented some
ancient unity between these two groups by saying we had a Northern Southern United Monarchy,
meaning you Samaritans from Samaria and us Judeans were actually, we got along in the
ancient past. And so they're trying to craft this story as if two Yahweh worshiping sex
sometime later, 5th, 4th century BCE, crafting an ancient history where they were united. I don't
know. No, that's the area that I work on, on Ezra Nehemiah, where we have this conflict between
Samaria and Jerusalem emerging in the first place. I mean, it goes back to these two kingdoms
that existed in the Iron Age. And the Northern Kingdom, Israel was just 10 times greater than
the Judean Kingdom. The Bible is a Judean product, but it's from a kingdom that is
10 times smaller and 10 times less significant than the Northern Kingdom. So during the Persian
period and Hellenistic period, you have them reemerging and Samaria is still stronger. Judah
becomes, is trying to take that position still. And they're trying, and many of them are fighting
with each other and want to break apart. And some of them are trying to come together. And so the
book of Chronicles, which is clearly in Hellenistic book, I mean, we have colleagues who are trying
to say it's a Persian period, but it's so clearly Hellenistic because it presupposes the end of the
Persian period. Like Ezra Nehemiah, Ezra Nehemiah tells the whole story of the Persian Empire.
You can't say that's from the Persian Empire because it's reflecting back on it. So, and it's
trying to, in the Hellenistic Empire, trying to say, this is how we succeeded during the Persian
times. We can succeed now. And the conflict between North and South continues on. And Samaria
versus Jerusalem and all that. And, you know, the parable of the Good Samaritan from the Gospels.
I'm not a New Testament scholar. I don't know where it is, but I do write on it in the book.
I just forgot right now. But it is that, I don't know if you've developed that on your own work.
Have you, have you thought about that? When Jesus, the parable of the Good Samaritan is like,
it's an answer to who is my neighbor. And then Jesus tells the story about the Samaritan,
who's better than the Levi, who's better than the Judeans and so forth, who takes care of this guy.
Right. And that is an attempt to say, my neighbor, we are one people, the North and the South, we can,
so Jesus was very much about, there is a larger community. It's not just about Judeans. It's not
just about Jews. There's a larger kind of concept of a more broader people of Israel, if you will.
And a lot of people have read the Good Samaritan parable as, you should love everyone or everyone
is our neighbor. But Jesus is going to tell a story about the Roman soldier. It's not like
trying to say we should love the Roman, the Roman soldiers are our neighbors. The, the, you know,
no, it's the Samaritans. They're our neighbor. And that is a, just continues the kinds of text
that we find in the book of Chronicles and so forth that try to show, you know,
Judah must treat Samaria better. Samaria must treat, and it's just all one way that develops it.
Yeah. And it kind of also tells me, as someone who sees it all the way here in this
late first century material, possibly early second, depending on the book,
is that there's still a struggle between these two category of people. And so this goes on for
centuries where they're competing. And I imagine there are other versions of Judaism.
But it really, what's the truth behind your position is that it really starts to merge
under the person that housed a period in a new way. So there are these kingdoms that fought
with each other, but there was no struggle because the Northern Kingdom was just strong and didn't
even care about Judah. The Northern Kingdom gets wiped out. It's Judah, the Southern Kingdom who
cares about trying to usurp that position, usurp that tradition and trying to make it their own.
So Jerusalem, after Samaria is gone, Jerusalem is trying to very hard once the,
but that all of it is very much a part of after they're both gone, now Judah and Samaria are
struggling. And so much of the biblical record in the Hebrew Bible is, belongs to the same
conversation that is in the New Testament. And a lot of scholars want to say, oh, there's the Old
Testament and the Old Testament period ends. And then there are these centuries, the inter-testamental
period in the New Testament, as if there's this big gap. My scholarship is saying there's no
inter-testamental period. It's the inter-testamental period is when the Bible emerged in the first
place. Wow. Wow. Drop your mic. All right. That was powerful. There's so much that your book gets
into and covering. I love that you bring up Ezra and Nehemiah. You're talking about a lot of these
later books and reshaping earlier ones. I think this is like the most clear, profound way of
approaching why the Bible was written. And I wondered, this is a little speculative. I understand
their scholarship. Like then Jan Vim, the silliest, I butcher these names, proposing whether or not
this is true. It's still an interesting hypothesis. The nine books of Herodotus, his histories,
were possibly competitor narratives because we know that it's writing about Persia and Greece
and what happened between Xerxes and King Cyrus, which is a huge player in the Bible.
So we have these huge players that connect the dots between Herodotus's histories with these
really well-known Persian kings. And to them, they're significant. He even paints their divine
narratives, all that kind of stuff from the Greek perspective of explaining the Persian empire.
Then you have the biblical and for crying out loud, Cyrus is the Messiah. What are your thoughts
about this? Whether or not he's completely right on, they modeled their mythical past of history
and comparing it and try to create like a new history's Herodotus kind of thing. What do you
think about this weird thing happening here with Herodotus and the biblical narrative and this
pivotal point with Persia? So that's not my field of expertise by any means. Herodotus is something
I use quite a bit, but there are other scholars who are trying to show the connections between the
kinds of history writing we have like in the Bible and Herodotus. And in some cases, they're not,
they may be conservative scholars. One of them was Gary Knoppers, a blessed memory. And he was,
in some ways, a conservative scholar, but he was an expert on the Greek stuff. And he really shows
how much of it is in the Bible against his intentions, not that he was a fundamentalist
by any ways. He grew up a fundamentalist, but his scholarship really makes a case for that.
It's something that I have not worked on in that kind of direction and with that objective,
but some of the stuff that we're seeing in the biblical record in terms of trying to create a
narrative, trying to connect the dots, that's new. We don't have narratives of peoples in relation
to other peoples like we have in Herodotus, in Thucydides, and in Greek history writing.
We don't have that in the Engineer East, but we have in the Bible. Then the question is,
so what's the connection? What's the connection between the Greek history writing and the biblical
narratives? Because the biblical narratives stand out in their West Asian Canaanite environment.
And I think this confuses many academics. I'm sorry, I'm butting in. I just think this is a
good conversation with you, Dr. Wright. You're so open-minded, but also very careful, and I respect
your decision on not even jumping to conclusions, but you're doing what I love, and that is thinking
and having our audience think with us. So this interesting point you bring up, it is very easy
to pin the tail on the donkey for the Bible when you see what looks like Canaanite, Ugaritic names
for deities, possible Akkadian loan words. I mean, all of that stuff really points to this
West Semitic or Southwest Asian context, and yet it's structured and modeled in a way that is
competitive and even similar in many ways to how Greeks narrate in so many ways. So my question,
and I'm throwing this to see what spaghetti sticks to the wall with you, is that could we be taking
old traditions, like you said, rewriting them under the context and pin of someone educated
with the Greek awareness of how they write their literature, yet giving their heritage,
their Semitic background, avoiding Greek loan words as much as often as possible, all of that.
I think you're right, and it's like colors go through the text with a fine-tooth comb,
trying to find an Akkadian loan word, or some kind of evidence for an Iron Age dating,
which means, like, before defeat. They're very interested in the Iron Age because,
once again, they want to get away from defeat, because that makes it all human,
thoroughly human, human after human, as Nietzsche said. And so you have to remember that in our own
languages and our own traditions, we have loan words that are very, or sayings that are very
ancient. We don't even know where they come from. They could be centuries old. That doesn't mean
if somebody, in a thousand years from now, found one of our letters or our text or whatever, and we
use some kind of expression that actually emerged three or four hundred years ago, that someone
could make a case, well, this text on this iPhone that we found, actually, we're going to have to
date the whole iPhone 300 years earlier because it has this word in it. And that's almost what
they do. Like, well, there's one word in this text, therefore, we're going to date it all 300
years earlier than what critical scholars say. And even critical scholars do that. It's hard.
We should talk sometime about what, how the field works, because the SPL, the Society of
Biblical Literature, is this huge guild of scholars. There's evangelicals, there are Jews,
there are critical scholars, there are, there's a whole spectrum of where they,
my point is that the critical scholars that are really useful to read, they still kind of
make things fuzzy by, by saying, here's some loan words, we have to be skeptical about late
datings. It may be, it may be not, but this loan word shows that it could be early. And it's like,
that's not helpful because the whole picture just fits so well. And I think I lay that out
in a new way so that people, it resonates with people. And you'll have to see how I do it. And
I think that's good. Listen, the reception is really good by non biblical scholars. It also is
by biblical scholars. But I think that the biblical scholars kind of go from it because
you think that's because it's competing. It's almost like, how dare you steal my thunder?
No, it's not about that. I'm just like popularizing. That's not what I'm doing. Actually, the book,
I did not expect it ever to take off. I didn't write a popular book. It's about Cambridge University
Press. Someone sent it to Gopnik, who's this like literary critic in New York who only reviews
several books a year. And he picked it up and said, damn. And he wrote a review of it in the
New Yorker, which blew me away, blew everybody away. And there's other people who are doing that
because they don't have any vested interest in this. I wrote this book actually for others,
for scholars and for students. I did not write it for ever. It's easy to read because I don't like
to write things in a complex matter because a part of scholarship that I think you appreciate is
taking very complex matters and making them easy to understand. And I haven't, I think,
a knack for that, at least in the writing. I'm not sure I do it in communication as well,
in oral communication. But in the writing, I do that, I think pretty well. And what they're mad
about is that it's setting out so easily for a broad audience, an idea that may something that
they may have been worried about, but no one had really developed and taken all the way.
There was one guy, the Germans, right? The Germans are still the best, I think, in terms of critical
research, not only in biblical stuff, but in a wide array of things, just wonderful universities,
where they don't have, they have total freedom from the religious institutions so that they really
are supposed to be scholars without any kind of, and that lends to cutting edge research. So this
guy, Julius Velhausen, like around 1900, he came up with the idea or didn't come up with it, but he
developed it a bit about defeat. And once again, kind of fuzzy, but pretty clear, he had to leave
the theological faculty for it. He had to go to another school and teach in it. And Velhausen
is, for many people in my field, respected, but kind of seen as the devil. And why? Why is he the
devil? Because he just lays out things that people say, damn, that makes sense. But I'm going to work
my whole career to show that it's more complicated than what he says. And if I can just add a little
bit of nuance to it, people might just throw him all the way out with the bathwater. And I don't
think Velhausen gets it right in many ways. And I try to really show that it's much more
more concerted effort after defeat. He has a lot of stuff that goes, he has stuff that goes all the
way back to Moses, but right in 1900, that's forgivable. Right, right, right. You're 100. And
I read some of that 10th century, 11th century BCE. And I'm like, you know, I breathe. I mean,
when he was saying that, it was radical because he left some stuff that may go back to Moses or
whatever. But he took so much away from Moses and from David and from all of them, that he got in
a lot of trouble. And today, I take everything away from them. And yeah, well, other than possibly,
and I say possibly a memory. And but even then, like you can't prove anything based on a memory.
And if the archaea, and I'm talking about the memory of a dynasty or a people,
but the fact that they constructed this narrative and it goes against archaeology,
you know, you're really like your book is going to show like you're really barking up the wrong
tree of assuming this is what actually happened as it's documented. Is there a name of a guy from
way back? Probably could be. That's the, but at that point, what's the important point? It's
really the story that you're reading, rather than could they have known a name from 500 years ago
that's Southwest Asian and in heritage or something or a dynasty of a tribal people,
you know, all these interesting things. I think that also might add this point is that
there have been scholars who like down day everything, make it to the Greek period. And
they're often, they're often very simplistic. And what makes my work controversial is that
no one has ever said Jacob Wright is simplistic. There's a lot of nuance. There's a lot of archaeology.
One of the most respected biblical scholars in Hebrew Bible, I teach at the top program
in PhD studies at every university, all of that. So it's not somebody who has an agenda to kind of
just make debunk the Bible. I'm an intellectual and I want to be honest about it because I think
we learn a lot about how humans respond to catastrophe. And we're facing catastrophes right
now. We're arguing with each other as if we have all the time in the world, but we're, if you can
see where we are, we're on the brink of disaster, like worry to fall over a cliff. And I think we
need truth in our time. And we need good scholars to do this. And scholars have courage. And it
showed me also the reception, which is nice, that if you have the courage and you write with
beauty and clarity, it will gain traction among people who I'm really care about, you know,
like Adam Gopnik and not worrying about what my colleagues in the field who are going to
nitpick with me. I don't care about it. Well, let me ask you this about the book. And if you could
tease us with a few examples off the top of your head that you think of early in the book, the Bible,
I'm speaking of, can you hint at some key elements among these books that tell us or hint at us?
So what are some of the motifs that say, Hey, this happened after the destruction of Babylon
or post-Persia or something? Is there a certain theme that we talked about the excess, right? So
that's a big one. And as I said, you know, there's a longstanding move between Egypt and other places
but what we have in the excess story of the book of Exodus of the Bible is very much an attempt to
say we did it without the king, we no longer have a king, and therefore it's all, you know,
our God and we can be still saved. You know, now what about Genesis that comes before Exodus? Well,
Genesis is very hard for people to understand. Well, how is that a response to defeat? It's
is about, you know, Abram and Sarah and everybody just making a family and growing and all the family
disputes. What the book of Genesis is about is that we have to remember that Abram and Isaac
and Jacob and all the children and all the women themselves represent different communities,
different regions, different territories. These are not just stories about people. They are
myths about ancestors and the communities are often named after the ancestors. So all of the
twelve sons of Jacob, those are names of tribes in a region. They have nothing to do with individual
figures until the biblical authors make them into some kind of ancestors that were connected
and the names that they have are the ones that they give to their posterity. But
that's all an attempt to say all of these communities, we go back to one family.
Now that we're defeated and conquered, we got to come together. We were a family, a nation
emerging way back in the midst of the whatever, the, the, the, in the ancient world, whatever,
you get the point, way back in the early history, we were, we came together in a family emerged
and we can do that now, today. And that is very much an attempt to say that
before we had a kingdom, right? Once again, the kingdom's not there. What brought us together
was our worship of one God, of this Yahweh. And that is their attempt, their theological
attempt to connect the dots, meaning connect all of these different regions and say,
let's come together around this. And, but they do it also in a family story, a family story that
is, remember, Abraham is chosen by Yahweh, Abraham and Sarah. And so the narrative is much, is very
much about a deity and a people who emerge into a family and that story then lays the groundwork
for families in the post-exilic period, meaning after the destruction to kind of return to that
model of, we can still be a larger family, if you will, our communities can come together
because we did it long ago. And I'm not making that all up. It sounds like, what evidence do you have
for that? We can find all of these names and different things in the older sources, as well as
extra biblical sources, and they have nothing to do with the book of Genesis. Right. And the book of
Genesis is what creates a narrative out of them. So you have family bonds or mythic
narratives constructing how these other tribes and various groups actually connect in our family,
which is interesting. It's a genealogy. You also see a lot of those genealogy kind of moves with
the Greeks, the way that they have genealogies as well. But I think of the Sumerian Kings list,
but it's not quite the same. That's really, it's, those are all kings. And so what I find interesting
about what you're saying is you got, let's create a pass for these tribes. You also are saying,
this is post monarch. So now you're, you're meaning, or better yet, this is post us having kings.
Yeah, go ahead. The Sumerian King list. I talk about that. And it's,
so there's this narrative, one king to the next king to the next king. And we have them in the
Bible from one king to the next king. And the Sumerian King list is very, very old. Right. Older
than the Bible. But you couldn't make a case that the, the Bible is old on that basis, because the
way the Sumerian King list works, it's all about the kings and the biblical sources are saying,
yes, there's some kings and there's dynasties and so forth. But their way that they're not at the
beginning of our history. Right. They create a mythic prehistory. Right. And that goes for most
of the Bible from Genesis, all the way to the narrative of just to remind you is from Genesis
to the book of kings. The book of kings ends with the destruction of Jerusalem. We don't have that
in Christian Bibles, but in the Jewish Bible, and you can see a little bit in the Christian Bibles,
that's the original narrative. It ends with defeat. And that narrative only has one book,
really, maybe two books, the book of Samuel and kings that talk about this, all the other stuff
that people read today. No one reads the book of kings. Right. No one teaches the book of kings,
maybe a few stories about Elijah and Elisha. But it's not really stuff that people get their
most of the theology from. They get the theology from Pentateuch, from Genesis, from all of that
stuff. All of that stuff is very easy to see as a way to preface this history with all of these
things that are going to be essential strategies for survival for communities who no longer have
that kingdom. And once again, go ahead. You know, I was going to say the judges
condemns the idea of kings, like, you know, they're already pointing toward the idea of kings are
coming and you're going to see why that isn't good. But at the same time, you're also seeing
promises of, like, later, so they can't let go of the memory or the idea of us. One day the Messiah
will come and one day, you know, we'll have this kingship that'll be ruled by God, where God will
actually come in. So they kind of don't want to let go of that, but they also have to explain why
we don't have that. Yeah. And one of the more important points about this is that you have
people who are looking at the book of Genesis and they find these parallels and they're trying to
make a story about how things come together, let's say, in ancient, you know, oral tradition,
and this goes way back and so forth. And I'm trying to show it's not oral tradition that
makes these stories. It's not something that goes way back. It's the attempt by scribes.
So to answer the question of, like, who wrote the Bible? It's an attempt by
nameless scribes over generations to connect various communities together in a literary way
through text, not through oral traditions, not through things that people knew all the time.
There is one kind of new approach. The documentary hypothesis, right, goes back to
Velhouse and he was the one who really popularized it. It's the JEPD. I don't know if your viewers
will know a lot about that, but it's not useful anymore to know because that theory
is really doesn't hold water very much. We have to, we have to, that theory says all these sources
go back to the Kingdom period or even the like the latest source, the prehistory source is like
pre-exilic. That's the case and most Americans kind of follow that. If that's the case, then
my whole thesis is wrong. I'm saying everything is a response to the defeat. And there's a new,
a neo-documentary hypothesis and it's defended by some scholars at big schools throughout the US
and it tries to argue that actually these sources, they knew nothing of each other. So there's the
one source that tells about the exes and another story that tells about the exes, but they don't
know each other. These sources, whatever, how do you imagine that? The problem with that is
they can make a claim that because these sources are telling about the exes independently of each
other that there must have been a common tradition about the exes. So our approach that I learned
from Germany, and my work in Germany, I spent most of my studies there, is no, there is a text,
it's like a snowball, it grows in each generation. So there's this kind of early idea about this
exes and it just emerges, or the early idea about maybe some ancestors, but you can't get back to
it very much, but you can see how it grows in each generation. It's not a bunch of independent sources
that were compiled like these neo-documentarians, say they were compiled by one editor. These are
older historical sources. They may not tell the history, but what they do show us is that everybody
agreed on the basic outline of Israel's history. And I try to show the basic outline of Israel's
history is a construction, a construction by very intelligent scribes, but they're doing it
with an eye to their communities, bringing together, unifying them, trying to give them
something that will hold them together when they no longer have a palace to do so.
So just to emphasize this, I'm glad you went into more weeds here because people on my channel
are very sharp. They love the deeper, more critical, what, let's get into the mechanics
of Dr. Wright's position here because he's saying something, it resonates, what he's saying makes
sense, it explains this broader picture, but what do we do with this, this juggernaut, I'll call it,
in scholarship that is almost, I'm going to use, I'm just going to upset some of my friends who
are scholars who might watch this, but almost a dogma that you have to regurgitate in American
scholarship of documentary hypothesis is the gospel. And you start challenging that, you're
fighting against your community of academic. Yeah, they're very vicious. A lot of the scholars who
are defending this documentary hypothesis, they can get very personal in their attacks. It's just
I don't know what rides on it. I don't know why they're so personally invested in it. Some of
them claim not to be religious very much at all. But once you start, I think once again,
it's like with the reception of the book, things just make sense very much. And because if it weren't
compelling at all, they wouldn't worry about it, right? We get angry about the things that are
closest to home and closest to the troops. If it's so outlandish, who cares? Well, that there's
some validity to it and it seems coherent and it could be true. Oh, man, you're going to have to
take that down and start getting ad hominem and all kinds of stuff. And it's just a mess.
Well, let's let's pick apart a few things if I can with you just to get your thoughts. And some
of this keep in mind, I'm sure is in your book or would take longer than our video would allow.
You have a lot of the JEDP and whatever hypothesis out here that wants to put stuff way,
way back. And they have this kind of idea that well, you might find J way, way back here or D.
They say all the way to King David or Solomon. Right. And much of them will go eighth, ninth,
tenth dynasty on these sources and sorry, not dynasty century BC. And then some of them they'll
say is Persian or granting this like final touch in the Persian. And you're saying actually, my
friends, we're crafting Persian onward. The whole picture not saying they're not using ancient
sources or ideas that might be there. But this evolution, the snowball rolling way, way back
here of these materials. And then there's like composite materials that are simultaneous traditions
that contradict. So the question I have about that and I know that we're weighing the weeds on
trying to do this in a video. But what do you do with doublets, triplets, when there's contradictory
material? How do you explain what you think's happening? Whereas they see it and they go,
we've got a creation account in Genesis one, we've got a creation account in Genesis two,
and they're two completely different accounts once 300 years before the other, you know,
throw numbers around, we don't know. But then I come to another scholar and I'm giving both sides
of the coin here. And they say, actually, if you look in Plato's Tamaeus, for example, he has a
cosmological ultimate crafter narrative of the divine creation of all creation, like all the
earth and heavens and all. And then you have a generation of Gaia in Uranus, heaven and earth.
It's a second creation where the lesser gods are actually able to create mortals. It's a separate
creation story side by side in Plato. So you have Tamaeus, which is giving you two creation
accounts side by side. And then you have this idea that, like, actually, Genesis one contradicts
Genesis two so much, they're two separate, completely different, disparate traditions
that some later scribe can put together. What are you leaning in? How would you answer some of
these problems that they try to solve? Yeah, so doublets are not an indication of
two different sources. They can be in some cases, but they're not necessarily so. And those were,
like you point out, if there's parallels, and they tell the same thing, then it must be two
different sources. Here's an easier explanation to use Occam's razor. Occam's razor is, if you can
explain it with fewer factors, then go with that. You don't need to multiply the factors, right? If
you can explain this evolved, you don't need to go to God to explain it. That's just not helpful.
And by the way, I lay that out in my book. A lot of religious people, why do we have a
Bible? Well, God wanted us to have a Bible. Why do we have trees? Well, trees, you know,
right? We don't make that kind of, if the wildlife biologist said, well, we have trees,
or the botanist said we have trees, because God wanted us to have trees, we wouldn't be going to
that botanist and reading. So we have to look for the more immediate reasons. And on the two sources,
the easiest way the Occam's razor is, there's an older story, not old story, an older, an earlier one.
It's in Genesis two. And Genesis one is a new attempt to tell that story, and it gets prefaced
to it. So instead of two sources, you just have a text that is like a snowball. By the way, Genesis
two is itself very late, very late. But whatever it is, you have a text. And then you have text
growing around like a snowball, as it rolls down the hill. It's not the reason why the whole
documentary hypothesis emerged was not because they were trying to defend the authority of
Scripture necessarily, they, they were doing this just because they had to explain the
doublets and so forth, all the duplication that goes way back into the 1800s. But it has become,
within scholarship in the last 50 years, a conservative position, because one could use it to
say there is the, there are independent sources, and they tell the same story roughly, that God
created the earth, and that there was an exodus, that there is Abraham, there are two sources that
mention Abraham, and it's like, no, there is an older study that tells about Abraham, and there
are new additions to that story. And the older story itself is not very old, because by the way,
Jacob is the older, Jacobs is Israel. And what they want to do with Abraham by saying Abraham was
Jacob's grandfather, was to create a new figure at a very late point that would unify. Jacob remembers
Israel the north, and if it's all the northern traditions, the Judeans need somebody who says,
this is our ancestor, and he was before Jacob, and Abraham, if you remember, he's down in Hebron,
and in Jude in the south, so they use a southern ancestor, and he's a late invention. He, there
are Greek influences there too. Thomas Romer, a very respected scholar, talks about Moses and
Abraham by comparing Greek sources. And by the way, we know so much about Moses. We have a lot of
stories about Moses from late Hellenistic sources about how he's a warrior and so forth, and you
see how Moses in this period, in the Hellenistic period, is really getting a lot of traction.
And so to put it simply, there is an earlier story, not an old, old story, but an earlier story,
and then there are responses to it, and there are attempts to say, well, let's do a new version of
that. And they grow, and the snowmogers. They started that, that task post-destruction. So the
older story may have actually been one of the earliest things they had initially started post-
destruction, and then it rolls from there. Exactly. And so it's not like when I say older,
that it goes all the way back to some kind of historic memory or something. It's just an attempt
to connect the dots and to create a myth that will unify dispersed exiled communities and say,
listen, we were connected already back then. And then people say, let's nuance that a little
bit more and add some other things. And they tell the story twice. And the story that comes before
it is the one that gets preference, because the best way to reorient the work is not to add a new
appendix to it, because no one will get to it. It's always to add the introduction. And there's
a great scholar, Sarah Milstein, who talks about redaction through introduction, meaning you take
a text and you redact it by putting a new introduction so that when one reads everything
after it, one reads through the lens of that new text. And that can be demonstrated by across the
Bible, but a lot of other kinds of materials from the ancient world. I was going to ask you, like,
when we get into King David's story, right, you have a whitewashed version, it seems. And then you
have a version that's like, this guy was like a murdering crazy, like this guy did some horrible
things. And I know that like Joe Maiden and others who've written on that try to.
So you have to start out, you know, First Samuel 17 is the story of David Goliath,
where he's just a hero, he trusted Yahweh, his brothers are scared, he has a lot of courage.
But First Samuel 17 is one of the latest texts of David, right? And we have the Greek version,
the Septuagint version, which is even simpler. And we can see how the Hebrew version is later
than the Greek version. And, and it's a late text to kind of say, before David actually became
this reprobate, he started out as a pretty good guy. And so that's an attempt like through
introduction to say, we can actually be nice to David because his he went off the wrong way,
but he began well. Oh my gosh, okay, so bonus material for you viewers who've made it this far.
And I'm glad you saw the teaser in the beginning of this video of some of the things we discussed.
Elephantine. I need to talk about this very, very controversial settlement, a Jewish settlement,
a Yahweh's Jewish settlement with their own temple that is not central as Deuteronomy wants to put
it in Jerusalem. They're writing letters to Jerusalem asking to rebuild it. Egyptians burn
it down because there's, I think if I'm not mistaken, they're sacrificing certain animals
that they found sacred and holy. And there might even be hints in the Exodus, I heard from one
scholar saying that there's, this is Exodus and its final redactions are happening so late
that there might be hints at elephantine in that material trying to say like, hey,
the Egyptians are not okay with you guys killing these certain animals in your temple.
I don't know that for so long. There is a lot to that. And tell us about it. I'm an expert on the
Persian period. And my first book was on Ezra Nehemiah and all that. And Ezra Nehemiah talks about,
okay, the Jews after the destruction during the time of Cyrus and the Persian empire and
all the kings that came after they returned and they finally got their shit together. They finally
came together and started refocusing their life on the Torah, on the law, on the temple, on obedience
and service to Yahweh. And that's the ideal period because that's where the community is fully devoted
to the Bible in a certain sense, right? The Bible doesn't exist yet, but their text,
they call it the Torah, the books of Moses. And everything after that is just commentary, right?
All the religions, Christianity, Jewish, Judaism and so forth is just kind of builds on that.
What is true about that is, yes, Judaism builds on Ezra Nehemiah and Christianity and so forth,
a community that comes together and wants to have the text read, like in church services today.
It builds on that. But that's all aspiration of the scribes. That's a kind of vision for this.
That was not the case in the Persian period. Even in the Persian period, in the late Persian period,
the text from Elephantina, from this little colony down on the Nile, guarding the Persian
empire. There were Jewish soldiers there and their families. They're guarding the borders of the
Persian empire. And we have all kinds of text, most amazing stuff. We don't have any archive for
a community that was related to Judah anywhere else, like that, to that amount of detail.
So we know very well about how they lived and thought. And you know what? They write to Jerusalem
about questions around their temple and about how they should do sacrifices and so forth.
No one ever says, we look for the Torah, we look for the books of Moses,
not only in Elephantina, but the priests in Jerusalem. They don't even seem to presuppose the
existence of a Torah. Not that the Torah is not growing there, but it's kind of a side project.
It's a plan B. It's a minority report, if you will. It's not the main thing, even in the Persian
period. So Esrani Amaya has to be a kind of fiction, a kind of aspiration. Maybe we should go there.
These are scribes imagining a community that gathers around their writing technology text and
scrolls. But the Elephantina evidence shows that there is a community, they write to Jerusalem,
they have, they worship Yahweh, but they worship Yahweh's wife too. They worship other, they give
money to sacrifices to Khnum and other Egyptian gods and so forth. It seems, I don't want to get
into all the details, but they have a lot of different things that are just clear idolatrous.
And the priests in Jerusalem and the authorities in Jerusalem say, they shouldn't say. We would
expect them to say, we have nothing to do with you backsliders. We will have nothing to do with
your community. We are not going to support you to build a temple to Yahweh and his wife.
The only temple, according to the Torah, is to be built in Jerusalem. That's what the Bible says.
Only the one place where you, well, we have the evidence. We know all about it. The temple is
destroyed. They're trying to rebuild it. They're writing to Jerusalem for help. And no one ever
thinks to say, you guys are backsliders. You guys are doing evil stuff. No, they accept what they do.
And so this all shows that this mentality of monotheism, of text, of Torah, of commandments,
of everything we take for granted in the Bible, that it might have existed, but it was a very
small little project among scribes of few circles. And it was just getting going. And it doesn't gain
traction until centuries later, right? It's the Maccabees who really are the ones during the
second century who are going to bring the Torah to the center of the community. Before that,
even though Ezra Nehemiah says it was, you know, in keeping with the divine plan,
after they had been conquered, they repented and returned, but we know that's not the case.
We know that's just, once again, an attempt to create a mythic past to say that this is what
we're doing now is the way we were doing it back then when we got our stuff together.
Ladies and gentlemen, you have to get a copy of why the Bible began. An alternative history
of Scripture and its origins. Dr. Jacob Elright, you've been fantastic. I love you as a guest.
I want to have you back. I like working with it. We need to do it again.
I swear, everybody in the chat, go down, get a copy, drop a comment on this discussion. I loved
this and I know that people will as well. Dr. Right, we may just take a gander and look through
the comments and see the praise and stuff. So show him some love. We'll have him come back as well.
This book is fantastic. I've never read anything like it, the way that you've wrote it.
I hope this thing reaches the moon, my friend. Well, thank you. Hank is ready to go for a walk.
Hank, you ready to go for a walk? Can you see? He's so tired of hearing about the Bible. Every
time he hears the Bible, he lies down and takes a nap or gets up and goes down to the basement.
The word Bible is like... I really, really though, seriously appreciate your time and I hope that
your dog doesn't hate me yet and that we can... He's Ben Aaron. He's a priest.
But let's do this again and maybe the audience will have some ideas. Once they've read the book,
can tell us what they'd like to see us discuss further or elaborate that they thought was amazing
about the book and teased the world with. Come on, talk about more about the Eleventina stuff
or the archives because that's... We'll get us into the weeds, but in a very concrete way. We
talked a lot about kind of the theories and the setting and how this all works within biblical
scholarship. We expect them to be much more critical than they are and they're not. But we need to
talk about the heart. People need to be equipped with knowing about... Here are three archives
and these archives make it very difficult to accept the biblical narrative. They help us
understand why we have a biblical narrative. We can appreciate the story when we understand
it's not history. Wow, and I think that's where the power of it is. It's in the story. It's not in
the reality of it actually being the case that we watch movies like that all the time. So any final
words from you, Dr. Wright? Well, I appreciate all you're doing to bring scholarship to a wider
audience and also bring in scholarship that is critical. And it's weird that we can have these
conversations with you that we can't really have within the guild because people are just
always trying... And it's nice to stick like... We say in Yiddish, let's talk pachalus. Let's just
get it right out and just knock it out. And that's going to be helpful because we want to do business.
Maybe MythVision will become a scholarly therapist session for scholars who really
want to say what they really think and not have to worry about a thing. In this very safe
environment that you create for us. Thank you. I try to be all things to all men and do it better
than Paul did. So bear with me. Well, I appreciate your brother. Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen,
sometimes, you know, it's a human thing that we, you know, have our memory, sometimes laps or
cognitive dissonance. Maybe sometimes we're sleepwalking. But in case you are, let me help you
out. Never, ever forget. We are MythVision.
