We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
Thank you for tuning in again.
Epistemology, the theory of knowledge, especially with regard to its methods, validity, and
scope.
Epistemology is the investigation of what distinguishes justified belief from opinion.
And today, I have none other than one of the masters of street epistemology out there,
and I hope I don't butcher his name, Anthony Magnobosco.
Yeah, you said it perfectly.
How are you doing, Derek?
Good morning.
Awesome, man.
Welcome to MythVision podcast.
You know, I watched some of your videos.
You've got an excellent channel.
People really need to go check out what you do.
You have, like, really good friendly conversations with people that usually it's like, don't
talk about politics, don't talk about religion, don't talk about, and you make it like something
that can be talked about because you're not in it to win a battle.
You really are wanting the battle to be done in their own mind for them to consider themselves.
That's special about what you do.
I think that's a really good description of what I do.
I'll usually go out and initiate talks with people and then ask them to pick a topic that
they think is really true.
Being in Texas, they often pick the God belief.
But yeah, I do want to talk about political claims and supernatural claims, whatever.
And then, yeah, I've been using this method called street epistemology, which is a friendly
approach where you're asking questions and you're basically encouraging your conversation
partner to reveal how they think that this stuff is true.
As opposed to me saying, well, here's evidence that shows that you're wrong.
Please accept the evidence, which is what we usually do when we have interactions with
people about these deeply held beliefs.
It's so amazing because even in, I'm a recovering addict, okay, and this isn't the conversation,
so to speak, but almost all areas of life, this is a great practice that you're bringing
in and it's really a patience that you're testing is not, once you realize you don't
have to be right and win the argument, you plant that seed of letting them examine their
own beliefs without making them feel confronted like there's a battle at hand.
They're going to feel that way, like even your tutorial when the guy who's worked at
the college, you can tell in his voice, in his demeanor, this guy is anxious to tell you
that he's a believer in Jesus and he sure hopes that you are too.
And you went with it and just let him do his thing.
I love that, man, how you approach that.
The people in drug addiction will approach me sometimes very angry or they think I have
this thing and I go, well, what worked with you?
Because I did it, I was abstinent when I got off of heroin.
I was dying from addiction and I withdraw that home, well, at someone else's house
for four days then at home and I didn't go to an outpatient or an inpatient facility
even though if I ever had to repeat it again, I would, they like approach me and they think
I'm going to tell them how you're supposed to get clean off drugs.
It's almost like a religion.
If you've heard of 12-step meetings, they're cultic in some ways and they do work.
Don't get me wrong, but they're cultic in many ways.
12-step groups have a higher power concept attached to them, make it whatever you want
it, a doorknob, but you can make it a light bulb or it's the divine creator.
Jesus, you know.
So they approach me and they think I'm going to tell them how they must do things to get
clean.
And I look at them and I just say, no, honestly, like there's many, many ways to achieve this.
What are you comfortable with?
What works for you is not what maybe works for me.
And they're like, shocked to hear me say that.
Like, you mean to tell me?
You're not going to tell me what I must do?
No, no.
It's interesting that you made that comparison because street epistemology, I think, is really
successful as a conversational approach when you're talking about deeply held beliefs.
If you try to take yourself out of it as much as possible, that was like the first thing
I think that you were mentioning is that when you can take your own ego out of the conversation
and this desire to win or to correct people and you focus on them, that really resonates
with a lot of people.
That would resonate with me if I was talking with somebody who perhaps I disagreed with.
If they were really willing to listen to me and let me speak my mind, that would gain
a lot of favor with them, I think, in my own mind.
And that works both ways.
So that's kind of one thing that I think that we try to do is really make them the focus
and not so much them and the belief per se, but how they concluded that that belief is
true.
And then the other thing you mentioned, you mentioned your struggle with addiction.
You may notice similarities with the approach that we do with things like motivational interviewing,
which is often used with people who are struggling with addictions.
This idea of, let me talk with you to figure out what's driving you to these thoughts or
these behaviors.
And in the process, you start to reveal things that maybe are preventing you from giving
up an addiction or reflecting on a belief or even changing your mind.
So there are some parallels there.
And I'm really glad that you, well, I think you're drawing that comparison.
I'm not exactly sure, but there definitely is one.
Yes.
I found religion and addiction to be very similar as well.
Addiction comforts, there's a reason they do it.
It's not, let me just destroy myself.
No, no, no, no, no.
There is a serious comfort that comes from whatever the substance or action, it doesn't
have to be a substance, because a lot of times the actions we perform release chemicals to
the brain like gambling.
They're not injecting a drug.
They're not smoking or sniffing or it's gambling and it releases the chemicals in the brain
and satisfies the human.
And I think that the, there's very core things in religion that satisfy humans and they're
content with it, even if it maybe isn't quite healthy.
And I think that what you're going to point out in your street epistemology is that there's
a healthy way of living apart from having to have these deeply held beliefs.
But how do we get them from this?
You know, I've had this question posed to me in a live with Pine Creek, Doug, R and
raw, like I had a bunch of skeptics on and they were like, if you could snap your fingers
and get rid of all religion right now, like all beliefs and deities, fairies, magical,
metaphysical things, et cetera, et cetera.
If you could do it right now, would you do it?
I said no.
I think most of the guys said no.
I think R and raw was the one that might say get rid of it, but I don't know.
It just, I say no because there's a transition, a healthy way of maybe helping the person
to find themselves able to comfortably come to conclusions because I went when I first
got clean.
I'll give you an example, Anthony.
I prayed to God and I said, I can't do this.
This was five, five years, three months ago.
I can't clean without your help.
That's what I said.
And I prayed and I said, you got to help me do it.
Well, about a year into me being clean, I realized that it was me all along.
And it wasn't just me.
It was the social structure that I had encompassed myself with.
We're a social creature.
We evolved that way.
And so I recognize, I don't even know if I believed in evolution at that time.
I mean, that's where I was and I realized we didn't have the capability, but we're
rabbit-challenging a little here.
That's interesting because I do run into a lot of people who say there's no way that
I could have gotten over that addiction without thinking that God was there and was holding
my hand or carried me or because I was too weak.
And it's so tempting to say, however, sometimes I even ask that, if it really was you, how
would you be able to tell?
Sometimes I just want to shake people and say, but it was actually you all along.
You are strong.
You can do this.
But what I'm wondering is, sometimes I think that a lot of people are reluctant to seriously
question their beliefs if they are convinced that the God got them through that for fear
of relapsing.
And you have me wondering if that was actually something that went through your mind was,
did that get in the way of it?
Were you worried about slipping back into drugs if you started to question the explanation
for getting out of it?
I honestly think there were moments where the thought did come into my head of, you
know, Derek, you're really, you're treading on unknown ground, right?
You're beginning to like listen to guys or skeptics that are showing that maybe the Bible
is human in nature, showing that this book you held sacred, the God of this book may
just be the figment of this cultural people's imagination based on a knowledge they don't
understand.
Therefore, they have kind of concocted this understanding of a deity by maybe natural
phenomena they don't understand and many other possible aspects.
But when I started to actually be inquisitive and investigate, there was the fear of like,
am I letting you down because I had a deep held like internal discussion with God all
the time?
Really, it was a discussion with myself, but I always thought it was God and finding
out eventually I kind of use the terms to a lot of people who are open to the discussion.
I found out that I was that God and they're like, whoa, don't say that, it's blasphemy.
But no, you get what I'm saying when I say that, but that I had the power and there is
inspiration in words, words do carry power in the way that we internalize them in the
way that we kind of live out our lives.
But I think over time, I'm going to say this bold and blunt to the conclusion, my becoming
a skeptic atheist, where I actually question things before I believe in them, I honestly
attribute that to me being clean today and not relapsing.
I felt a shame that there was a God watching my every move and every action, the negative
thoughts, the things that I may have done, pornography, you name it, the list goes on.
I always felt like he was watching me and he was let down by my action.
And therefore, I always internalize this as like, am I really yours?
Is your spirit really in me?
And when I did that, I always like, there was a guilt and a shame of this that I finally
when I psychologically let go and realized it wasn't just that Christians will use that
as the excuse for why I'm not a Christian anymore.
Oh, your actions, the way you lived your life, see, ha, ha, ha.
And that's what I've had happen to me, not all Christians, but my sister-in-law, other
people that I've discussed this with your lifestyles, the reason why you left it had
nothing to do with the evidence for or against God.
It was multiple facets that made me start to consider.
And that's really where I've come down on.
That's really interesting.
Yeah.
I could ask you a whole bunch more questions about that.
I mean, I'm just here to hang out and have a conversation and like use whatever you'd
like to do, man.
This is your time to shine.
And of course, guys, you could see he's experimenting on me right now and he does this on his channel.
You've got to go to his channel and subscribe.
So for sure.
Well, you're the questioner.
So sometimes I have a tendency to just get my questions in the way, but yeah, I mean,
what else?
I want to go.
I'm completely fine.
Go wherever you want to go with this.
Okay.
I'll ask you.
You've said this on your channel before, but for those who don't know you, are you a believer?
Have you left the faith?
What led you maybe down that path where there was a aha moment or a gradual escape?
I was raised in a believing family.
And as a young kid, I just didn't think that it was true.
I compared, I seriously wondered aloud to my parents if God was like Santa because it
seemed far-fetched and like mythology to me.
So that was, that's kind of where I was pretty much my whole life, although you learn early
on that it's important to a lot of people and I didn't know anyone else who was thinking
the things that I was thinking at an age of eight or nine, which led to a lot of anxiety
looking back.
Like I think I was a really anxious kid probably because of that thinking, I just don't fit
in.
I think that was a big, that was probably a big factor of that.
So I just kind of kept my mouth shut.
But as you get older and I started dating and I was, the girl that I was dating was
very religious.
I didn't realize it until later on and then their parents made this big deal out of it.
And then that didn't work out, but I did get married.
You know, a wonderful family now and, and it's sort of dawned on me that, that these
beliefs really can't be justified to the people that hold them to their standard.
And look at all the harm that's being caused because of this belief, these beliefs, these
God beliefs in particular.
And that's what sort of got me into the street epistemology stuff because I was the, you
mentioned before we started like you were a caged atheist, I think was the term used.
And I was like an uncaged, raging atheist at one point and I would argue with people
and that type of thing.
So this, this approach really appealed to me.
And then I came to find out that there's actually something to it, that it really does seem
to help people take a look at their views, reevaluate their level of confidence that
they're assigning to their belief.
And then ultimately, like your journey out, recognizing I could probably be just as good
and get through difficulties and maybe even have a better life without this belief that
I can't justify.
And watching that journey of people having, when I'm having conversations with people
where I use this method, it's very, it's very inspiring.
It's very motivating.
It's very exciting.
So I'm, I've kind of made it a point of my life to try to bring this tool to people as
many people as I possibly can before I'm gone, because I think, I think this approach can
really help humanity, not just on the God claim either, by the way, but all types of
claims.
I agree.
I was watching your Sarah interview in the park, and you were talking to her about karma.
Yeah, I remember that one.
Yeah, that was a really, really, and then these are older videos I suspect that you've
done and, but I enjoyed it three years ago.
Yeah.
I enjoyed that.
It made me think like I'm suspecting most of your conversations end up boiling down
to an emotional thing and we're very emotional creatures.
So this is like the heart of Christianity, resurrection, death, okay?
Death is the, I told my wife last night, who's the biggest enemy in the Bible?
She goes to the devil or Satan.
Well, in the case of karma, it's justice.
There's a sense of justice that I think people want.
They, a lot of people who think that karma is real, when you get down to it, they oftentimes
feel that they've wronged people or that they've been wronged and they like this idea of some
sort of karmic justice making sure that everything's balanced out.
So I think you're right.
Like there's these psychological underpinnings to these views and people don't realize it
until you engage with them in a respectful way where you make them the focus like we
talked about before and actually have them reveal their reasons.
And yeah, when it gets down to it, they usually can't justify those reasons.
They have poor methods and it's usually meeting a psychological need.
And that's interesting.
They project.
They project the obvious that we all share in common as humans like justice.
We all want the bad guy to get what he deserves.
And technically, I think it's in our nature to feel naturally eye for an eye about things.
You did that to my family.
Well, guess what?
I'm going to do that to you.
I love my family.
Why would you do that?
So if it doesn't happen to them, they pray, they hope, they project, oh, it's bound to
happen.
I believe it's going to happen, whether it's Hitler burning in a lake of fire or whoever,
whatever it might be.
Or if you've been good, let's project that the good get paid in some way at some point
in the future.
But I was thinking about it last night.
I told my wife, the biggest enemy in the Bible isn't Satan.
It's death.
And we all have to face it.
So this is something that is so primal.
It's so fundamental to all of us.
And they give you an answer, even if it's not something you can actually prove at all.
You will see them again.
This isn't the end.
And that's so deep and emotional, like we don't want to let go of our loved ones.
How do you overcome that in conversation?
How do you get people to look past the death?
That's a hard one, isn't it?
It's tough because a lot of atheists don't have a better answer other than the pretend
one that most people have been giving.
Or let me just say the unjustifiable one that most people have been giving.
So we're kind of, atheists, I suppose, or skeptics maybe, are at a disadvantage because
we often don't have better answers to give other than, I don't know, is one of the answers.
I don't know what happens when you die.
Or let's lean on each other.
And if a lot of, many people don't have a support system in place.
I was actually thinking about this in the shower earlier today.
I was thinking, how many children who are surrounded by parents who love them and nurture
them and protect them actually find the need to then, on their own, consider that maybe
there's a higher power also protecting them.
They probably don't do that because that needs already been filled.
It's when you get kicked out of your house or you're struggling at school or you're homeless
on the street because you lost your job.
That's usually, it's when we're desperate.
It's when we need somebody to be there to be our protector.
That's when our minds start, I think, being more open to the idea that there's, well,
there must be something else out there because I don't have anything right now.
That's a very tough thing to overcome.
Usually what I do is I have a discussion about, this is what it almost always comes down to
in street epistemology, especially on these supernatural religious claims that are meeting
psychological needs is, how do you think other people who don't have this belief manage
to cope?
They likely do know other people that do.
It often comes down to this.
Do you value truth more than you value the comfort that beliefs can give you that you
can't justify to yourself?
That's usually what it comes down to.
If you can get to that point, that's usually where you can really get the measure of a
person is, do I want to believe true things or do I want to believe things that I can't
justify or demonstrate to myself that they're true, but just thinking that they're true
is good enough for me?
That's usually the first part of that.
Then the second part of that is, well, you have a dialogue with them.
You explore how other people who value truth over comfort manage to cope.
Do you know anybody like that?
If you decided to one day be that person, how do you think that you would get there?
Can you walk me through your steps?
There's a lot of ways that you can recognize that this is an issue, evaluate where the
person is on that scale between truth and comfort, and then have them themselves map
out the steps to get to that end goal if that's where they're willing to go.
That's the other part, too, is they need to be willing to get there.
There's not much that I can say to convince them.
You do a fantastic job of that, and that's what I think really drew me into your channel.
I think that no matter who it is and what it is, the journey, if you have the internal
journey in oneself, has to happen for them.
They have to do it.
You can show them there's the bridge.
I know it's scary.
I know it's swinging.
I understand that you don't have all the answers.
You're concerned what's going to happen is the bridge going to break, is there really
something on the other side, which I'm using the bridge because you did a video with the
bridge and you and the guy recently.
I do notice that you're flipping the usage of the bridge, but that's cool.
Just go with it.
I love it.
Yeah.
In that bridge, what I'm saying is there's life on the other side, and you're worried
like, what's going to happen?
Is this bridge going to fall?
I'm going to end up in the lake of fire.
What is this unknown territory?
We have so many fantastic beliefs, but the person that needs to take that journey, you're
allowing them to do the work.
You're not like many atheists.
It's cool.
It's great information out there that you can hear atheists that do this, but they're
more like warriors attacking and battling.
What instead of you're doing is you're saying, listen, I'm a human.
You're a human, and I want you to know as a human, I love you no matter what.
I want you to know that.
I seriously, sincerely want what's best for you.
At the end of the day, I don't care what you believe, what you think.
I just want to maybe help you see something that no one showed me.
I eventually found this out, and you can take it or leave it at the end of the day because
I'm not listening to anything this guy has to say, or you know what?
This led me to a better life, and I'm glad that I took that path.
For me, it led me to a better life.
I feel more freedom.
I can create my own destiny, in a sense.
Destiny has a power.
Does that word mean?
It's got meaning to a lot of people, but what I mean is I can make myself what I want to
make myself be, and no higher above me thing has to tell me, the psychological deity, has
to tell me which way I must go.
No, I think the confines of our civilization and society automatically already make those
decisions for us.
If not, I'd probably have slaves just like everyone else in the society.
If we didn't get passed and beyond these social structures of slavery and such that the Bible
is totally thumbs-up-ing, and I'm using the Bible because that's where I came from, but
I challenge many faiths and consider all these ideas.
I just like what you do.
You carry them by the hand, and you say, are you willing to travel?
Really?
You don't even carry them by the hand.
You say, are you willing in your own mind to go there, and I'm going to guide you and
just ask you to take yourself through it?
What steps would you use to get there if that's where you actually want it to go?
Here's the best kept secret, I think, is that, and I think you've touched on this, that life
seems to be better when you don't have to pretend that something is true or active as
if it's true, even though you deep down recognize that you can't justify it to yourself.
It's a more honest life to admit that I just can't justify it, so I'm not going to think
that it's true, and I'm not going to behave in a way that, because I think that it's true,
so my behaviors are even different, and there have been some recent surveys of people that
have decided that it's important, it's more important for them to believe things that
are true than things that give them comfort that may not be true, that their lives actually
are better in the long run, that they're reporting happier lives.
Here's a video on my channel, what is it called, How We Let Go, yeah, that's a really
good video, it's built on some statistics and it's like a cartoon type of thing.
Life can get better if you're willing to question it, and sometimes that initial journey can
be difficult, you can lose friends, community, a job maybe even, you might have to rebuild.
It's not easy if you're already in it, like finding your way out of it can be difficult
and even painful, however, once you get through that, and then you look back, most people
report that life is actually better for them.
Yeah, I'm 100% on board, I can think of an example, maybe you can elaborate of something
like that that has nothing to do with God, a spouse is cheating on someone, do you really
want to know or not?
Part of me doesn't want to know because it's not true.
Yeah, it's going to be painful.
You have to move out and hire a truck and sit down your kids and explain it to them and then
rebuild and date, but then maybe you actually find somebody who you trust and you have a
more real relationship with.
Or another example, if you don't go through all those hoops is try to go to counseling
and see if the partner's willing to build the, or if you're willing to build the
trust back with them, I personally have gone through this.
So this is, I'm not, I have no shame in my game and my life and what I have, like me
and my wife have both done each other wrong.
We've had to build our trust back and there was a fear, a big fear of can I even trust
the woman or her trusting me, I'm worse than her just in case anyone's asking.
I've done more dirt than my wife, so I must be honest, but I'm going to say like that
is so deep and it's nothing to do with God, but it's something that's scary, but I'm
glad I know, I'm so glad I know because we can fix it or I can steer my life in the
direction I know I need to go, which I was able to fix it.
I went to a medical counselor, I sought professional help.
I spoke to people who helped me work on myself and a lot of times, you know what they do?
They don't tell you, all right, go home and fix your wife and tell your wife how wrong
she is.
These counselors are saying, look at yourself.
Let's talk about you.
The healing starts inside yourself, so that same healing can happen for people who've
been trapped in cults for a very long time.
I've been doing a lot of ex-Johavas witness interviews.
I'm trying to get Mike Render and Leah Remini from Scientology Show.
They were Scientologists.
I'm trying to get other people to come on and interview them on their cult experience,
the pros, the cons, and go from there.
I don't know if you're interested.
There's a huge, I'm noticing a huge, maybe it's just the algorithm, but on TikTok, there's
a huge ex-Mormon community, so if you're looking for people, that would be a great place to
go.
Maybe there's an equivalent ex-Johavas witness community there, I'm not sure.
Let me write that down.
Here, just write it to me after.
Ex-Mormon, ex-Johavas witness might be on there, but ex-Mormon.
Yeah.
Okay.
Definitely.
Let me ask you this.
A lot of people that probably watch my show, love my show because I don't confront them
on those epistemological beliefs that they might have.
A lot of people go, yeah, Jesus is mythology, but they go and they believe Yahweh or they
believe Allah or they might have a strange new-agey type of belief.
Yeah, all these are mythologies, but the divine source, I can close my eyes and imagine, the
divine source that's above it all, my wife seems to have something like this kind of
belief.
We had a talk last night and she said, I told her what biggest enemy in the Bible, death,
and realizing Jesus' words were, he who believes me or if you believe in me, you will never
die.
Those are comforting words.
If you don't want to die, you're going to believe in Jesus.
Well, shoot, let me do that, leap of faith, as they call it, believing in Jesus, things
I can't see, but I'm going to believe it anyway, and that's the definition I mean there, but
she says, why would you want to take that away from them?
That's what my wife said to me last night.
She said that, you know.
What are your thoughts?
Yeah, that comes up a lot, especially if you're an atheist activism, I suppose that comes
up a lot.
Why do you care?
Why do you care what other people think?
Why do you want to get involved?
Why do you want to take away a deeply held belief?
That is a question that I think each person should probably have, you know, probably ask
themselves and try to answer.
My response to that is that it's fairly evident that the beliefs that we're holding and acting
out on have the potential to harm other people, particularly if they can't be supported by
good evidence, and that's what these beliefs seem to be.
We see people holding services in the middle of a pandemic and encouraging elderly people
to meet without masks on because of God or something like that.
One example may not even be the best example, but I would imagine we can probably think
of 20 or 30 if we sat down to make a list.
That's my motivation is that I think the more people who are running around with beliefs
that they can justify to themselves and to other people by using reliable methodologies
and good evidence, the better it is for humanity.
However, there are a lot of people that they are there on that.
If the needle is pointing, they might put the needle more towards the comfort edge rather
than the truth.
Now, you can have discussions about why they decided that that's where their needle is
pointing and it may dawn on them that, you know what, actually, I think I really do value
truth more.
In fact, that this reminds me of a talk that I had with a woman named Maritza, two talks.
The first talk was about truth.
She initially said, hey, comfort is more important to me.
By the end of a 20-minute talk, she realized that no, truth was more important to her.
It wasn't because I convinced her that truth was more important.
I asked her questions so that she can reevaluate her position on that little gauge and by the
end of it, she realized she was really over here.
I think she was probably here all along that no, truth is more important even though she
said originally that no, it was comfort.
I think a lot of people do value truth and they're willing to pay the cost necessary
to make that conversion from comfort to truth.
But I don't make that determination for them.
I ask them, essentially, what is more important to you?
What would you want your kids to be running around with?
Where would you want your kids' needles to be pointing as they go through life?
Sometimes when you phrase it that way, it dawns on them, oh, wow.
I definitely want them to believe true things and I will try to be there as much as I can
possibly can and give them the comfort that they need.
It dawns on them.
But it doesn't usually, people don't usually think about their own position on that gauge.
So I ask them, you know, where would you want to be if they say, listen, it would be extremely
devastating for me to think that this God wasn't real.
I might actually harm myself or other people and if they mean it, then I back off on it.
So I basically let them, they are laying out everything to me and I try to go where
they take me.
However, I do ask questions to make sure that what they're saying is indeed an accurate
reflection of what their position is.
Yeah, you do a really good job.
I love that.
And you try to almost be invisible to allow them to, you're just a mirror and not like
a weapon.
They feel, no matter who it is, I feel like they kind of feel defensive no matter what
till you can hurdle that and just show them like, I'm not here, I'm not even responding
back and being critical of the things you already said.
I see a lot of that debate happen, whereas you're not really debating.
You're allowing them to challenge themselves, so to speak.
Right.
It's how can it be a debate if I'm, how can it be a debate if I'm as accurately as possible
repeating back what you're telling me and then building questions, fair questions, not
leading questions, hopefully, off of what you're telling me.
So all of the fuel for the conversation is based on the materials and the oxygen that
you're giving me.
So we can, we basically go at the speed that my conversation partner is comfortable with
and the direction that they want to go.
And that is a very, it's a very unusual thing.
It's kind of a counterintuitive thing too.
We don't usually engage in conversations where it's all about the person that you're speaking
with.
I think that comes down to, and this is probably why psychologists get paid so much, is it's
a level of maturity that is required, in my opinion, to be the man or the woman in the
position to be doing street epistemology.
Are you willing to allow people to walk away who might say, yes, I believe in fairies,
leave me alone?
Are you willing to be told no?
Are you willing to take rejection?
The ultimate thing is kind of having that, so to speak, serenity, if you will, on allowing
people to believe whatever they want to believe and being okay with it and knowing they believe
that walking up.
You have to be mature enough and stable enough to know that and be okay that they might walk
away the same way they came and they might even be more staunchly in that direction.
Are you okay with that when you go into this?
Not to challenge them or harm them.
I'm okay with them going wherever they want to go, to be clear.
However, I would be lying if I didn't say that there would be a part of me, and I've
had conversations with people where I just have to sit down, I turn my cameras off, I
grab a little bit of water, and I just think about how sad it is that that person is content
with valuing comfort over truth or believing in something like fairies, for example, that
they can't justify, and they're so ignorantly resolute in their position.
It's very sad because those people vote and they'll have families, and I'm hopeful that
they may come around on it.
The other thing about ending conversations on a good note or trying to keep it positive
the entire time is that when they're walking away and thinking about it, hopefully, they're
not thinking about the bad experience that they had, but the good experience that they
had and the value of the questions that you asked, where hopefully, maybe they'll be a
little bit more honest with themselves later on after they've had a chance to calm down
after being filmed, for example, in my situation, I'm filming them, and maybe even talking it
over with a friend or a priest or a leader in their community or whatever.
They're going to the bar and having a beer, and then they're processing the questions.
Maybe they'll be a little bit more honest with themselves and say, yeah, like, what kind
of life do I really want to live?
Do I want to live an honest life where I can justify the beliefs that I hold, or do I really
want to go around with these beliefs that I can't justify?
I'm optimistic that most people do value truth and that they will process these questions
in due time when they're ready for it.
Let me ask you a good one then.
In light of that last statement, you said a good statement there, people value truth.
Deep down, everybody really values truth, but they want to be comfortable at the same
time.
They don't want to be uncomfortable without.
They want the truth, but it's like that famous movie, you can't handle the truth.
It's uncomfortable at times, and trust me, it is.
That's someone who went to the other side, who didn't know what the other side of the
bridge was like.
I heard other people went there, but I had to go on my own path.
My deconversion, I like to call it deconstructing, if you will, and rebuilding was through comparative
religions and seeing mythology patterns similar to other societies, finding out biblical narrative
because I was a staunch Bible-believing Christian, old New Testament, the whole nine, very radical
in my beliefs.
You can go back and watch YouTube videos that I have.
It's on a whole other channel that I even leave my name on.
I had the Calvinist beard going.
I was a radical in terms of just really drinking the Kool-Aid, but I had to slowly realize
how this was built.
When I found out the fabric of it, the truth of how these texts were made and who wrote
them, and maybe some of the reasons why and how they were borrowing things from other
cultures that were probably successful, they said, well, we like that teaching.
Either they liked the way it sounded, it rang some truth in their own culture in their
life, or this is a successful culture.
I'm going to borrow this idea, the Enuma Elish, Epic of Gogamesh, whatever it might be, and
use it into their own narrative.
That was what helped me gradually escape.
It wasn't the confrontation of why'd your mother die?
Why would God allow that?
It wasn't nothing like that.
My mom's still alive.
I'm just making the example that I had a different path, and it was very comforting to take that
slowly over the year-to-year path of me looking into it.
Other people don't.
I wanted to ask you in that whole thing about truth.
It sounds like a lot of these people want to say there's evidence.
That's why I believe there's evidence, but you slowly start getting them to say faith.
You see, they start to come back over.
Can you discuss that a little bit with me?
Can you take me through like, are there anybody that dies on the note this evidence is true
hill that you've dealt with?
Well, yeah, there's a lot of people who think that they have good evidence to back up their
claims, and faith is not a factor.
You'll notice this also with a lot of seasoned apologists who I think recognize the liability
with saying that faith is a part of the mix.
I've noticed that there's a tendency these days to say, no, no, no, faith is something
that you get after you decide that you're believing that it's true.
It's a gift that you get at the end or something.
So faith can be oftentimes needed to get to the belief, equated with belief, or on the
flip end, the third stage of that is, no, faith is what you get after
you've concluded that the God is real.
So you have to be really careful with that word.
And that video with the bridged goes into all the different definitions and some of
the problems and how most people are really using it.
But no, there are a lot of people who say, I've got evidence to back this up.
It's good evidence.
However, for supernatural claims like gods or fairies or spirits, like in the case with
Maritza, with leaving out the water, I don't know if you ever watched that one.
Oh, yes.
It's a great one.
It's so good.
Uh, she thought that she had really good evidence for the belief.
However, when you start exploring the quality of the evidence to their standard,
not to mine, and you have to watch for this.
A lot of people will say, let me give you this book or they will start giving you
evidence that they think you will find convincing.
Put the kibosh on that.
Just say, hold on a second.
I'm really interested in the evidence that you think you have to justify your
confidence that this is true.
So always make it about their evidence.
And what I think you'll eventually find is that the evidence that they're
purporting that they have is not as good as they think that it is.
It can often be used to justify all different types of claims.
And they start to realize that they have a different standard, that the standard
to accept the claim that God is real, the evidence that they think that they have,
that standard is lower than the evidence that they would accept to discard the belief.
Ever notice that?
Very, very interesting.
And that actually came up in that talk with Maritza.
She required a really, really high standard from me.
She wanted evidence from me to show that spirits weren't real.
She set this very, very high bar.
And yet when we looked at the evidence that she had to justify her claim that
spirits were real, we realized in comparison, the bar was very low.
So we talked about that.
Why is that?
Why would that standard be a little bit different?
A lot of people don't even think about the quality of their evidence.
They just think that they have it because they think the belief is true.
And that's what's so beautiful about these respectful, questioning type of
interrogations that are polite and profound because it's like you are
taking yourself out of it and you're being a mirror to them.
You're basically showing them what they think and how they structured it.
No, that 100%.
She, just for anyone who, let me give them a T so they can go watch it.
They need to go watch this video.
Go to his YouTube channel.
She believed and her mother taught her that pretty much the spirit, you
leave water out when someone dies.
If I'm not mistaken, it was when someone dies so the spirits can come and
they drink the water, which right there, like a huge red flag comes in my head
like they can, they're able to actually drink physical in their spirits.
So where is the spiritual and the physical?
Where does that line up?
But anyways, yeah, like it's just difficult.
Like you need to define what you mean by spiritual or spirits.
But yeah, I want to ask you something else because I watch Pine Creek Doug
a lot and he does street epistemology type stuff.
He does like a hybrid though.
What did you mean by a hybrid?
If you don't mind me like, what is it he does different than you?
Well, hybrid, yeah.
Well, Doug is really well versed in the Bible itself because he was
a believer for so long.
So I noticed that he will, he will spend a lot of time arguing or not arguing,
but pointing out contradictions and verses.
So he'll listen to a lot of apologists and say, well, they're saying this,
but if you look at their book over here, it says this and how do you, how do
you reconcile that?
So he, he, he merges his, his deep understanding of that book with his
understanding of street epistemology and he merges it together in a really
entertaining way.
Whereas with me, I, if somebody said, well, I think that the Bible is true
and they give a verse, I wouldn't then immediately think, well, what verse
can I use to counter that?
I might ask, and I've even seen Doug do this.
This, this is what's so neat about him.
He, he works these levers in and out.
He, you know, I might shift and say, well, if we found a similar verse in a
competing religious book, would it mean that that book was true as well?
Something that that's just an outsider test for faith type of question, which he,
so he, he worked, he walks this really interesting line of presenting people
with things that in my mind that they would find defensive or offensive and
become defensive, whereas I try to avoid that.
I try to avoid raising people's hackles where I think he, he enjoys it.
In fact, I was just watching one of his videos yesterday.
I think he was saying his first priority is entertaining himself.
So he enjoyed, he, he enjoys these types of interactions.
And I do too.
However, I guess my, what's my number one priority?
My number one priority is to demonstrate the method of street epistemology and
then maybe also leave people with some challenging questions for them to think about.
That's interesting.
Yeah.
Maybe fifth on my list is, or maybe 10th on my list is, is personal enjoyment.
Cause it's, you know, it's hot in Texas and it takes time to edit these things.
And now with COVID, like that's all, that's kind of all on the back burner.
Um, entertaining myself is probably pretty low on my list.
That's funny.
I mean, for me, I, this is a passion of mine, of course, to edit, I guess my
pride, my priority is to, uh, expose ideas and concepts that you've never heard
that usually you're never going to hear in church for sure, but that someone
can come on and go, hold on, like, like, here's an example, uh, the Bible, right?
And mainly it's been the Bible cause that's like my bread and butter, so to
speak, that's where I came from.
That's everything I knew.
Um, but I also try to do this with scholars outside.
Like I want to start, uh, interviewing scholars on Buddhism, uh, people who
don't even know, like there's a debate in the Buddhist circles of whether
Buddha existed or not.
You know, the question I had initially when I started this was, did Jesus exist
or not, right?
So it was a question, but now it's like turned into like, tell me a channel
you can turn to that makes it entertaining and explains to you that Yahweh
fought Leviathan and from the corpse of the dragon Leviathan, he created the
cosmos.
Okay.
This is in the mythology, the lore of the Jewish lore, if you will, the
Old Testament, the Hebrew scriptures, and of course, in pseudopographical
writings.
Now, I don't know about you, but I mean, if you were to pose that to a
Christian who's never heard that, how would they respond?
You mean there's a story that God fought Leviathan and created the world from
his story?
Yeah.
Here's the difference.
Before I would present anything that I think could contradict what they've
just said, or maybe surprise them, I would first ask them how they would
react if they discovered something like that, right?
So that they say, well, you know, those books have all that stuff in there
anyways, and that's just how those people thought at that time.
And that was God's way of conversing with them and explaining very difficult
concepts, they're going to probably find a way to rationalize it.
So rather than playing whack-a-mole with like, well, what about this?
Well, what about that?
What about that?
Don't do that.
Ask them what's propping up their views and what they would have to see to
lower their confidence and their certainty that it's true.
So you're always working within their language, within their word usage,
within their, within their own belief structure.
You're always navigating with the things that are critical to them
thinking that this is true.
Now, you can entertain bringing in things for them to think about that
might upset the tower, so to speak, or pull one of those little pieces
out to go to the Jenga Tower reference.
I don't know if you've seen that video.
That's a really good video that I did.
I need to check it out.
I think it's called How to Change Minds.
Check that one out too.
Okay.
Maybe I can give you some links after this is done.
We'll stick them in the comments.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
In the description even.
Yeah.
It's really tempting to give people things that you think for sure will,
that they will find convincing.
Try to resist doing that.
Ask them to reveal what they found convincing and then explore it
with them by asking questions.
I want to say, and I didn't make this clear for me.
Like, I don't one-on-one specifically do this.
My videos convey information that might rock.
Like, what?
I didn't know that.
You see what I'm saying?
So they can watch it without anyone pressuring them, but they'll find out,
like, hold on, you mean to tell me there's a verse that says that?
And they might, it might create some sense.
I've had a buddy of mine, for example, Tim Mills.
He was a staunch Christian.
He started watching my videos and he comes, he's like, got his own channel now.
Atheist harmonics.
Like, he has his own channel where he literally wants the stories of people
who left the faith.
And that's his entire channel.
He said, Derek, what I did when you started showing all of these different things,
I couldn't help but start to question.
Like, is this really true?
Yeah.
Yeah, the key part there is that you were showing this on your YouTube channel
for people at when they were ready for it and they were prepared and they were
sitting down under a blanket with their cup of coffee, their AirPods, AirPods in
or whatever, and then they were watching that content where they weren't the focus
of it.
And that, I think, major makes a huge difference.
The problem is that if somebody were to watch that video and say, that's what
I'm going to, I'm going to use that the next time I argue with my uncle about
Jesus, and for sure, that's going to, that's, I find that so compelling.
And the way that Derek explained it was so great.
I'm going to use it with them.
You're probably not going to have the same result as somebody passively
watching it.
That seems to be, to be the case.
So I wouldn't want to discourage you from keep, you know, from keep doing
that because you're reaching people who are happening across it.
The problem is, is when you think that all I need to do is give that to somebody
the next time I have a one-on-one conversation with them, and then they're
going to find that convincing.
Right.
No, that's, you might get lucky.
You may get lucky.
And that's exactly what they needed to hear at that point in their life, but
you're taking a risk because it may not at all be a factor.
They may have already figured out a way to justify it, or they can probably
figure out a way to justify it on the fly.
That's a good point.
No, that's why I have you on here, actually, as I'm taking a lot of advice
that you've put out there and watching you in action and explaining a lot of
your tutorial ones, you know, you walk us through, you talk us through, and you
explain, it's really interesting.
It just, like I said, it takes a level of maturity.
So anyone who's going to go out there, I asked, I would ask.
That someone who's not at least well-versed in the street of
epistemology, hold your reservations, maybe ask simple questions, but try not
to get emotional.
People, people have different views.
Sorry, if you didn't know that, you know, let me let you know, like people
have different views in this world.
And so just be ready for that and maybe watch your videos.
If you have an emotional, a certain level of emotional maturity, I think really
helps if you can, if you can manage to, to, to suppress your ego and your
identity and your, your, um, your goals, I guess, like, I don't know.
Don't, don't approach this as, how do I convince people that they're wrong?
Figure out how they concluded that they're right.
And if you can approach it that way and take yourself out of it, you're
going to probably make really good progress.
You probably will make a tremendous progress in that regard.
Wow.
Dude, that's awesome.
I'm interviewing Jesus, uh, from Australia at the end of this month.
There's a man who really claims that he's Jesus.
Yeah.
Something was talking about him recently.
And he has a cold.
Maybe in Pine Creek.
Oh, it might have been.
I don't know.
Uh, I'm interviewing him on the 28th, I believe.
And I'm going to be doing something that I've never seen done with him.
Most people mock him and, uh, he's, he, what, from what I've seen, the
hours of content that I've kind of scoured through to get prepared for this
interview, like they either mock him or they don't really know how to handle
him any sincere, like this guy literally thinks this.
I don't know if there's mental health behind it or whatever.
I suspect there could be potentially, but, um, but I'm going to approach it in a
strange way.
It's going to be kind of more of an entertaining show where I'm going to be
asking him, I'm going to go, you know what, I don't believe you're Jesus.
Um, just letting you know up front, I'm a skeptic.
I don't believe in Jesus.
Even if you were him, I don't, I don't, but anyway, I'm just making the point.
I'm going to play the role as if he is.
I'm an atheist and, uh, I'm going to have Dr.
Robert in price with me as well.
He's an atheist and I'm going to interview Jesus pretending that he's actually
Jesus.
Yeah.
So Christians who might tune into this, they may not like it, but it is kind of
funny, like how do you know he's not Jesus?
If you were to ask a Christian that question, how do you know he's not?
He says he's the second coming of Jesus and Jesus supposedly said he was going to
come back, even though I'm getting biblical here when I say that he predicted
this way back then.
Um, how do you know he's not Jesus?
Anyone starting claims, you know,
this reminds me of one of the pre-show questions that I think was a Dave that
wrote down.
He wanted to know, oh, somebody wanted to know why I don't pray with people if
they offered to pray with me.
Do you remember that question that was on there?
So like, kind of your, your plan to interview him as if he is real.
Uh, kind of reminded me of that.
Like I, I don't like to participate in beliefs or, or rituals that can't be
justified to their own satisfaction.
So like, why would I want to pray with somebody if they really can't explain why
they think that their holy book is real or that God is real or that prayer does
anything.
So I'll respectfully decline and say, well, that's okay.
I'd rather just pass, but if, if you really think it's necessary, maybe as
you're walking away, if you want to say a prayer, that's, that's completely fine.
But I'd rather not, I'd rather not participate in it.
Right.
Now with me, I think my goals to, um, I'm going to be asking questions while
assuming he's Jesus, of course, knowing he's not, but I'm just assuming role
playing here, uh, is role playing.
I'm going to let him know.
I'm going to say it up front.
I'm going to be role playing, but it's all for hypothetical because I'm going to
ask him things that only if there was a Jesus, according to the narrative, the
myth that we're told about him.
Um, you know, that we have other documentation that is interesting that
Christians neglect.
Did you perform miracles as an infant, for example?
You know, like, uh, there, that takes you into pseudopographical writings, like
the infancy gospels, which are crazy.
I mean, Jesus like literally kills a kid and then brings him back to life to
testify that Jesus didn't actually kill him or something like these are real
documents that are written in the name of Christianity and Christians who follow
and believe in Jesus.
But I want to ask these funny, interesting, odd questions.
He's probably never had asked of him, but he also plays into this really,
really well.
He was interviewed by a psychologist and stuff.
So, um, they asked him about Simon Peter.
Yeah.
He says Simon Peter was a habitual rapist and that he raped Mary Magdalene
two days after the crucifixion.
And I'm like, I think I would probably ask him something like, how do you, how
do you demonstrate to humans that you love them and then watch, you know,
look, look for a few examples and then maybe ask something like, like, he
might say, well, I demonstrate it by protecting you from harm or something
like that.
I don't know what he would say.
Uh, then I might ask something like, are you all knowing?
Uh, he would probably say yes, I think, and then maybe say, well, can you,
can you, can you provide the cure for cancer and then see, see if it all jives.
But, you know, I guess, um, see that that would be sort of like circling
the wagons to trap him.
And we don't really do that in SE.
I'm not going to do that on this show.
Um, I am going to do follow up shows and discuss about the, discuss the
content that he lays out.
You see what I'm saying?
So the critical response isn't going to be during the show with him.
It's going to be after in another video where we will be able to discuss some
of the details, uh, I think it'll be a good, a good practice to kind of do that.
But I don't want the guy to run away.
He said, if it's uncomfortable and it's something disrespectful.
He doesn't mind tough questions.
He said, but if it's like, I can tell you're coming from a bad place of
mockery or something, I'm just going to, I'm just going to leave the interview.
But, uh, he's gotten mocked so much.
I do feel bad for the guy.
No, I think you could probably do an interview where you're not mocking him,
but you're saying, listen, I don't think, I would probably say, if, if, if,
if I had to interview this person, I, you know, researched it and it was,
it was like I'm thinking, I would probably say, I don't think that you are the son
of God.
I think that'd be a highly unusual.
I'm open to the possibility that it's the case.
I am wondering if there's perhaps something psychological going on here.
And I'm wondering if, um, if this is even a healthy thing to be questioning you on.
Because if you came to realize that you're not, I'm not really not sure what
the implications would be for you or your friends, your followers, or, or this
type of stuff, I think I would just lay everything out on the line and express
all my concerns about questioning him about his claims.
However, if he was still willing to engage, it kind of goes back to the
whole truth thing.
If he said, if he said, no, really, I do, I guess he's, he's so convinced that he's
right.
It's, it's very strange.
I, I don't usually get people who, who they themselves are the claim that I
would be interrogating.
Dude, I got to set that up at some point with you.
I really think I could probably make that happen, man.
If he'd be willing to carry on the discussion though, with your, with you,
with you asking those probing questions, I don't know if he would stay very long,
but even with you being kind, because those kinds of questions do dig into some
deep points.
Most people aren't comfortable going there and you would have to like slowly get
there.
Yeah.
I just thought I'd throw that out there because it's funny.
It's something coming up.
Uh, I think it'll be interesting.
Plus I do want to ask him about the Russian Jesus and say, you know,
is this guy a con man?
I mean, what's up?
You know what I mean?
Like, are, are you really the true son of God?
What is this guy doing?
Could there be more than one Jesus on earth?
You know, um, I'm going to ask questions that are kind of like that and be kind
and allow him to say them without being critical and just keep going into new
examples, questions and things, and then do a follow up critical show later on at
some point where I'm able to dissect and say, okay, let's play the clip and let's
discuss the matter and go into some, uh, interesting stuff.
And maybe he'll say some things that you might be shocked of, like that you
wouldn't expect him to answer.
It'll be interesting just to hear.
Yeah, it sounds like a fascinating interview to be honest.
I have to say, I'm going to watch that when it comes out.
Thank you, man.
Well, look, if there was anything you'd want to say to people right now, mostly
skeptics that watch my show, summer believers, of course, uh, they believe in
whatever it is, maybe it's the Jewish God, uh, they might be Muslims.
They really enjoy our show because we give a lot of content.
We don't really press these matters as often, even though I personally love
what you do, what Doug does, but you guys, you know, in the street epistemology,
you know, you got such a great channel loaded with material and it really
looks into the personal life.
That's why I like the cameras are there.
You've, you're, you're very sensitive to the people.
I really recommend they go check it.
What would you say to the people who are watching this right now?
Well, thank you for inviting me on your show.
Um, like I said at the start, I'm always looking for avenues to introduce
people to these, these concepts too, because it seems like it's a really
good way and productive way, albeit counter counterintuitive way of helping
people take another look at their views and then have that internal dialogue to
say, can I really be so sure that that's true?
And that has implications for the belief.
It has implications for their actions, which have implications for society.
So if you are at all concerned about what's happening in the world today, QAnon,
religious evangelicalism, dogmatism, people entrenched in deeply held views.
And if you're beating your head against the wall, wondering, how do I get
through to people?
How do I help people?
Then I think the street epistemology approach is appealing.
It's, it's not that hard to learn, but it is challenging to take your ego out of
it and make it about them.
But if you have the emotional intelligence, if you have the, the
determination to, to try it and to do it, then I think you're going to, you're
going to find that you're going to have much more productive conversations
with the people that you're speaking with.
And it also in turn, I think, changes you.
It starts to change you as, as a practitioner.
You tend to be a little bit more empathetic and understanding and willing
to entertain ideas that just sound so absurd.
It's, it's a better thing for humanity if you learn this approach.
And, uh, yeah, please check out the videos.
We have a discord server where you can go and you can engage with people
from around the world who are using this approach with different cultures.
Where you're working on a self-directed training course.
You mentioned the tutorial videos.
Those are a little dated.
We've learned so much since then.
And we have a team that's putting together a, a course that you'll be
able to go and learn building rapport or establishing the claim.
The ethics side of it, how to end the conversation on a productive note,
those types of things, it's all going to be covered.
So we've been hammering at this for about six years, seven years, and
there's nothing stopping us.
It's going to just keep getting better.
We appreciate criticisms and concerns because we take them seriously
and we try to address them.
And this thing is moving forward progressively.
And I'm excited to see where it goes.
So thank you for having me on.
I'm glad to be part of it.
I appreciate you allowing me to interview you, of course.
And really, this is really a fascinating deep dive conversation into a lot of facets
that we could break apart and do specific shows on.
But, um, yeah, I want everyone to know, go down in the description.
All his links will be down there.
You guys, you can check it out.
He's got the Facebook page.
Go like it.
He's got, uh, you've got, of course, the YouTube channel, the Discord.
There's various links there.
You can go help support what he's doing.
I'm sure there's ways of doing that as well.
And, um, I got one more question for you.
If you don't, of course, Christopher Hitchens, his method, all right, is radically
different than what you're doing here.
And I wanted to say, like, I love Christopher Hitchens.
I love what he does, what he says in so many ways.
However, he's just an example, you know, Richard Dawkins, other people, they're
examples, but the problem with that approach is when you have faiths like
Christianity that literally thrive off persecution.
They take that damaging context that is being spoken of by these people who are
well in, they are knowledgeable.
They know what they're talking about and they're on point with the reality, but
they use it kind of like a hammer in a way to really try and chisel away at
people's faith.
Um, they take that as I'm being persecuted and it only makes them a lot
of times more strengthened in their faith.
Do you have a comment you like to make about guys like that, the hardcore atheists?
Yeah, it's funny.
It's funny you mentioned that because we recently did a review video of the
first of a two-part series of the four horsemen.
I'm sure you've watched that video where they're, uh, Dennett and Harris and
Dawkins and Hitchens are sitting down and they're discussing things.
And three or four people who are into street epistemology reviewed that.
And we talked about the benefits of the approach, but I think back then this is,
when was that filmed?
I want to say that was 2005 or 2007 or something.
I don't know if they were even aware of the concerns that we have today about
driving people deeper into their views or giving them evidence that they may just
tentatively accept it, but it doesn't affect their attitude towards the belief.
That seems to be the latest research that the backfire effect is showing.
They may not have even just been aware that that was problematic.
A lot of them, I think they, they are, they're academics.
And I think back then the mentality was, we just need to ridicule these views,
expose them for how silly they are, show how the verses don't make sense in these
holy books, and that's going to resonate with people.
And it does.
We talked about that earlier.
If you're watching that video or you're watching a Hitchens video, you're going
to probably find it pretty compelling if you're passively watching it.
The problem is adopting that, that strategy in those one-on-one conversations.
And that is the, that's the disconnect that I think was probably missing.
Then a lot of atheists watched that and said, Oh, that's what I need to do.
That's the best advice from, from the leaders in this movement.
And what we're finding, what we found, and what street epistemology is the
remedy to is that there's a better way of engaging with people initially.
You may eventually find that, Oh, now they're ready for this more
caustic in your face combating versus approach, but you're taking a risk if you
start with that.
So my recommendation is to learn SE, you learn street epistemology.
Think of it as like, is like foreplay, conversational foreplay before you actually
get to the, the aggressive, you know, I'm going to drop, I'll drop a Doug word.
Coitus.
Oh, okay.
Oh yeah.
Just try to meet them where they're at, use this approach.
And then I think, I think you're going to find that it's going to, it will
greatly, you know, improve the conversations that you're having as well as you
as a practitioner.
I'm very thankful for what you've shared with me today and for your
channel's existence, because that has always been my approach naturally.
Uh, naturally, I felt me too.
I felt empathy for the believer and then me too.
Yeah.
And it was tough.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like you see, you see these, uh, these very, you know, well esteemed people
advocating for approach that conflicted with the approach that I naturally
would have done.
That's why, that's why SE appealed to me so much because it was more in line
with how I wanted to approach it.
But all the examples that were out there at that time, up until about 2012,
2013, when the SE stuff started coming about, I think there may have been some
more benign, natural, normal example, like respectful examples.
But that was pretty much all that we saw out there as atheists.
And I think that also had the potential of scaring away people who may have
been considering atheism, if that's all they saw that was out there.
Yeah.
And some of the, we can go on and on, but some of the examples that atheists
have given, like you said, only confirm what the Christians are already
assuming, you know, the devil's gotten into him.
Look at how he's treated.
That's not what they mean.
You know, and their minds are playing tricks on themselves to thinking
because Christopher Hitchens or Richard Dawkins was so rude to that person
or this way, that's an immune spirit.
The spirit of love is fruitfulness.
And it's like, well, when you show the fruits of the spirit, the way they
understand it, and you're an atheist and you're approaching them that way,
it's like, well, hold on, they're no different than me.
And they just, you know, so that's why I really appreciate what you do,
because the empathy is there.
You have a lot of patience, and I ask everyone to go check out.
Please show him some love.
Hey, make it worth it so Anthony can come back on here again.
I would love to come back on your show.
Maybe after your talk with the man who claims that he's Jesus, we can talk about it, perhaps.
Let's do it, man.
Thank you so much, guys.
Go show him some support.
Show us some support.
You guys, you know, I love you and never forget.
Please, we are MythVision.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
