We are MythVision, ladies and gentlemen.
Look at the people I have on the panel today.
I have Oz with Tang and Dr. Josh.
The Tang gang, Dr. Josh, how are you guys doing?
Pretty well.
Chilling, chilling.
I hear you have a conference coming up.
I must say, it's called Better, the atheist network
group presenting Better.
Who's going to be there and why the HE double hockey sticks?
Does everyone need to show up?
Well, Dr. Josh will be there.
So there's why you show up.
But yeah, Better in Fort Wayne, Indiana, June 25th and 26th
at the Allen County War Memorial Coliseum.
And as you can see there in the pictures,
and all of this will be updated today,
because last night we officially introduced
or announced another additional speaker to the lineup.
But Shane and Q, Paul Gia, Dave Warnock,
then the guest entertainer for the weekend, Madam Who.
And Cynthia McDonald, Dr. Yahshua Bowen, Seth Anders.
And then the latest, the late night edition
that we made officially yesterday is Holy Kool-Aid.
We'll be there.
And then I'm there for some reason.
But we'll figure that out later.
Well, you also have the YouTube channel.
I hope people go subscribe to Oz.
You do a lot of.
Man, what I like about your YouTube
is you're talking about issues in a way
that we don't admit vision do.
Like it's more on a personal level.
Here's a community.
We're going to talk about these issues.
We're going to wrestle them out.
And you'll let anybody come on
and have these conversations
as long as they're not a troll and they're sincere.
So I really do appreciate what you do over there at Tang.
And then of course,
we know that the real mastermind behind this is Megan,
but we just say Josh for whatever reason, you know?
I'm adjacent.
Adjacent, that's what I am.
Look, go subscribe to Megan's YouTube channel.
Hallelujah, hallelujah.
Seriously though, I love you guys and I'm excited.
So what what are we to expect at better?
And why call it better?
Well, what's the deal, man?
Oh, well, great questions.
And that's kind of.
Well, had its original purpose
and it's kind of morphed into a,
I guess a combination of things now.
But what is it?
It is still about better conversations
and how to have a better dialogue,
but it's not just with theist
where the focus originally was just with theist.
But now over the last six months, eight months,
some of the things that I've seen and experienced
even within our community,
I feel like we need to address those things as well
and how we can better help take care of each other,
how we can hold each other accountable
and apply responsibility,
but not be complete unreasonable assholes
when we're doing that.
And that we're using the same standards of evidence
and we're using the same types of approaches
as far as logic and reason to make decisions
even with our fellow unbelievers and unbelievers.
So it's kind of morphed a little bit in that regard,
but as far as what you can expect,
it's going to have, as far as the itinerary, the schedule,
it'll be your standard schedule,
speakers and panels and things like that.
But in between, there's gonna be crowd activities
where the crowd gets to interact
and be a part of the show, so to speak.
Each speaker, they're gonna have basically walk-up music
like WWE style and have like laser lights,
fog machines, mist machines.
So it's gonna be habits, some traditional formats,
but other than that,
it's not gonna be like any other secular slash atheist
conference that I, at least the searching and research
I've done that I've seen or stumbled upon so far.
What is this Yeshua Bowen gonna be saying
or talking about there?
Yeah, well, I mean,
the thing that I've been prepping for is that walk-up.
You know, you would think it'd be about what I'm gonna say,
but no, I gotta, you know, I gotta get prepped.
So I'll be coming up to-
You're gonna bring on a pimp stick and do a render.
I mean, I'm not gonna like,
I'm not gonna let it slip what the song is,
but a song's been known for a while.
But you know, prepping some stuff.
No, I am really excited about it.
It's a pretty dynamite lineup of speakers
to be able to go up there with.
So I'm super excited about it.
Also, there are gonna be some good panel discussions.
So I encourage everybody to come.
I'm gonna be talking about, surprise, surprise,
how we can have better conversations
with Christian apologists, fundamentalists, evangelicals
by engaging in matters of the historicity
of the Old Testament.
So, you know, thinking about hot button issues,
like I talk about in my book.
And actually, if you come, you may get a little bit
of a sneak peek at some of the content
of volume two of the atheist handbook
because that just got back from Kip Davis.
Dr. Kip Davis is the editor and he went through everything
and it just came back, got his notes,
made my corrections.
Now Megan's doing her read through.
So you might get a little flavor of that.
So come on down, come on down.
Come on down, Hallelujah.
Well, anyone who could talk to Darth Dawkins
for as long as you did and not buckle,
you gotta learn from that guy.
I mean, anyone who wants to learn
how to have a better conversation,
if they could do what you did, which is walk on water,
you literally held the blind in the whole nine.
I don't know how you did it.
You gotta go to the better conference
and sign up right now.
It's down in the description.
The link is there.
So please do so.
What else should we expect Oz?
Well, I just, I want to gain some clarity.
So Dr. Joshua, you saying there's a possibility
we may get some brand new flavor in our ears?
What?
That hip hop reference, that hip hop reference
left the stream.
So I'll leave it.
I'm sorry, I apologize profusely.
Now watch, if that's a killer priest reference, I'm screwed.
That's what's going on here.
Like, I'm screwed.
It rewind.
So what else did you ask me, Derek?
I'm sorry.
No, who else?
I mean, is there any special guests
that are gonna be showing up to the better conference
that we can maybe be surprised by?
Well, I'm still hoping this one guy
that has this really small, irrelevant YouTube channel
named Derek, we're hoping he shows up.
But I...
Right, right.
I hope he does too.
I mean...
There's actually for day two,
there's the latter part of day two.
We want it to be more entertainment.
So obviously, Madam, who's gonna be there?
I'm working on one more musical guest
and then I'm trying to get a comedian or two
to come in and do some stand up.
And again, just kind of change it up
because at the end there have time
where everybody can just hang out, chill,
because a big part of this should be
building relationships and friendships.
Yeah.
And I want time designated to that,
to where whether it's music going on
or stand up going on or whatever,
that people have time to mingle and just chill.
So yeah, we're working on a couple other things
in that regard, but until I'm the type,
until I have that in stone,
I'm not gonna throw names or anything out there.
I do like that idea because when I went to Texas,
I was there with you.
It was kind of like, there was too much educational
and like conference type of style
where I really enjoyed the one-on-one small talk
with all of you guys,
not having to be sitting there thinking,
all right, you gotta be there.
We got a 45 minute lecture here.
We got a session here, we got a session here,
nonstop through the whole thing,
more downtime spending with people.
I think that's what's gonna be good about better.
And of course, we're all learning.
We're still trying to figure it out.
But I heard there might be like this radical
fundamentalist creep who might actually show up.
Yeah, so I learned just several days ago
that the week before better in Fort Wayne,
there is a dinosaur and dragon show at the Coliseum.
And there's speaking suspicion
that there's a particular doctor
that may stick around for an extra week
to pay a speth visit.
You know, he's in the other room.
If you want me to ask him, if he's coming, right?
Let me just.
Yeah, ask him.
Okay.
Yeah.
Can this.
No, what do you want?
Yeah.
Come on in here.
Good evening, folks.
Ken Hoven here, a dinosaur adventurer, land.
Yeah.
Anybody see how high the IQ test was?
91, okay.
A little slow down here.
So what are we talking about this evening?
I'm going down to that dinosaur show,
because you know dinosaurs and humans,
you know, they walk the earth at the same time, okay?
It was about 25 minutes ago.
So, you know, and you, Oz, I understand that you believe
probably that dogs are produced non-dogs.
Is that correct?
Not like that godless engineer thinking
about those 14-foot whale penises, are you?
Hey, Harvard.
I'm as obsessed, yes.
Yeah, that's what I expected.
So, yeah, I think maybe I'll come down to that better
and learn you guys a thing or two, okay?
Because you probably believe in that evolution.
And of course, that's a bunch of nonsense.
And of course, it's a lie from the devil.
So, perhaps I'll come down and show up,
maybe for a little Q and A, okay?
So you guys can actually learn some, okay?
But listen, I've got something on the stove
and there's a dinosaur out there cooking it with me.
So, I'll bid you guys, I do.
Thanks, Ken.
Thanks.
Thanks, Ken.
Thank you, Dr. Kent, for that.
I'm still looking forward to your dissertation.
That guy, I mean, it should have seemed to look
he just gave me.
Wow.
Anybody got time for that?
Ain't nobody got time for that.
So, Dr. Josh, I feel like at this point,
the doc has moved in with you and Megan.
I mean, he's here so frequently.
We're working on him.
You know, this is all about better conversations
so, you know, we're really, really trying.
I think he's coming around, maybe.
He wasn't.
If he's confusing like your dogs
or any animals with dinosaurs,
does that tend to happen in your house?
No, because again, in his estimation,
dogs do not produce non-dogs.
So, it's difficult to confuse them, I thank for him.
Did Oliver make sure he knew that?
Because...
We don't know what Oliver is doing,
actually, most of the time, so.
Listen, better is going to be better.
Everybody, please go sign up right now.
There are variations on the tickets.
I do think it's important we at least cover cost,
what people can expect, Oz.
You know the skinny on this one, so help us out.
What is it?
I mean, just fees and what can they get?
You know, it's a lot of money.
It's a lot of money.
It's a lot of money.
Fees and what can they get?
Yep, so starting at the bottom, the $25,
that's, you're just getting the bones.
One of the bones is just the main,
the main session where the speakers are speaking.
There's no panel discussions or anything like that.
And then the next tier, and the prices are,
I think it's $75 is the next one.
For $75, you get the panel,
or I'm sorry, the main speakers and the panels.
And then the 150, the elite,
you get access to everything in lunch
with speakers and tang gang.
And then the $200 package,
you get access to everything lunch and dinner.
But the dinner, we had to change up a little bit
because we had to change venues,
which actually I think is going to be more badass
than what we originally planned.
Nice.
It's going to be held at the Summit City Comedy Club
where I work.
So that's going to be interesting.
No, I'm just kidding.
But we have full access to the bar.
And for any Tang patrons or YouTube channel members,
that's going to be live streamed to you and you only.
That's going to be private to patrons and channel members.
And when I say live stream,
it's not just going to be like one set camera at the bar.
Postal Mike, and I'm very, very grateful as went
and bought basically a camera switcher.
And we'll be able to say, okay, we're at the bar
and Jenna's in the green room.
We're going to kick it over to Jenna.
And the feed's going to go from the bar
to the green room with Jenna.
So you're going to get the full after party
with all of your, you know, for the most part,
your favorite YouTube content creators getting hammered
and having fun.
So it's going to be badass.
And I just, I just want to say on a serious note here
and Oz will never bring this up, I'm sure.
You know, COVID, COVID really put through a wrench into this
because Oz is supposed to be back in October of last year.
And it was going to be a financial hit to do it.
But he decided to do the responsible thing
and to call it off because of COVID.
And he's taken a hit for that, right?
And so this has been a difficult time.
I think.
So if for no other reason than to show support
for the channel and for Oz doing the right thing
and for Tangang doing the right thing, come out.
Come out and show your support.
And Oz, is there a video feed?
Like you can watch it online.
Is there a?
We were going to do that originally
and just for logistical reasons.
We decided to do just the after-party
because that means we were going to have to move everything
around for the after-party and then back to the venue.
So we're doing just that part of the live feed.
But no, and Josh, I appreciate that.
And thank you, because you're right.
Me by myself, I'm never going to bring that up.
But it's actually been a double hit
because it was supposed to be in April.
Then because of COVID, we pushed it to October.
Then there was the variant and then we had to reschedule again.
So it has, it's been brutal.
But I know for the team and myself,
it's been about doing the right thing the entire time.
And at the end of the day, doing the right thing
is simply doing the right thing.
And let me, let me say this because I know you won't say this.
Oz went out with his own money and purchased
all the sound equipment, all the lighting equipment,
all the, I always call it a fog machine,
but it's not a fog machine.
It's like a.
Mist.
Mist machine.
It's like the fog machine on crack.
Like, I know lots about that or something, but yeah, so I've heard.
But he went out of pocket for all of that,
you know, assuming that probably was going to have to spend
a little bit the first year.
But, and I've sort of been behind the scenes in all of this.
So I feel like, I feel comfortable speaking to it.
So if, if you can, obviously come out,
but if you can't make it, but you want to show some support,
maybe just drop a couple of bucks to Tang and ear market for the conference
because this is an important thing and we want to get it going.
I know Oz wants to get it going every year,
making an annual conference because I think this is a very special aspect
to the atheist community because it is, as Oz says,
it's atheist your way.
And I think there are a lot of atheists out there that feel like
they don't really fit in sometimes if they don't do philosophy,
if they don't do, if they don't know Hebrew or Greek or something.
Like, where do they fit in if they don't do all the special stuff?
That's what Tang gang is about.
So please show your support.
Come out if you can.
If you can't, you know, shoot, shoot, shoot some support money over there.
How does that work, Oz?
Because that's exactly what I was thinking as you were talking, Josh,
was say they can't come, say they can't get the tickets.
Worst case scenario.
Trust me when I say you'll want to go.
But if you can't, how can they, can they pay pal you?
What's the way that the best way to send funds to you for this conference?
Great question.
And for accountability reasons and for integrity, we do have a go fund me set up.
So Derek, as soon as soon as I came here, I will send that to you.
And you can put it on the screen and in the in the in a description that way
that's there and anything like that.
It's in it's not just helping Oz.
It's helping Tang gang and it's helping further years of this to come
because it does cost quite a bit of money to, you know, to do and to do it right.
You know, to make it worth everybody's while to to be there.
So I want it to be done.
I want it to be bad ass.
I want it to be done with excellence because I want the experience
to be everything people pay for.
I want everything to be worth, you know, that investment.
Thank you so much.
I definitely hope that we can get more people signed up, a lot more people.
If you're a myth vision fan and you love what we do here, you're going to love
the conference.
I can guarantee you that the conversations go deeper than just
mythology and biblical and all this kind of stuff.
It's like down to earth.
What does this mean to us and how can we live a better life?
Have better conversations.
All of that stuff is going to be at better.
Make sure you go sign up.
Are there anything else we're missing out?
I mean, you get to meet us bozos in person.
I mean, that's really that's maybe that's not a good thing that I should say
about me, but there are other people there that are really cool that you want
to meet in person and go stand on the corner or something.
I don't know if I should add this, but I did talk.
I'm putting Mike on the spot here.
OK, pass to Mike.
OK, he told me and you know what?
If you go, you can literally you can push him to this that he would record
like five minutes, all right, where you can have like your own little video
session with some of the people there.
So if you get to meet Dr.
Josh in person, you want to meet Dr.
Kent Hoven, OK, I get it.
I want to meet him, too.
You know, you can meet these people and he will record.
So you get a little clip, something special.
But but obviously I would say, you know, sign up for the better ticket.
You know, they'll do the little special extra for you
if you do something like that.
That's I'm volunteering past that he's going to hate me for that.
But oh, well, if you sign up for like the one hundred and seventy five
two hundred dollar ticket, you can get your own little something, something like
that. And actually, I'm glad you brought that up, because that is one of those
things for me is in my brain.
It slips through the cracks because I'm looking at the big picture.
But in between sessions and things, we're going to have like essentially
like little pods set up where we'll be doing interviews or maybe even reviews
it, you know, towards the end of the event and talking and chat.
And yes, even the possibility and the ability to talk to maybe your
favorite content creator or, you know, or a group of them, you know,
depends on who's in the room.
So those little things.
And then at the after party, there's actually going to be like stations set up
in each station will kind of have its own vibe, you know, its own feel.
So you can have drinks kind of go around.
I know Jenna's doing one.
She'll probably be in the green room.
Possibly Mike and I, of course, ours is going to be at the bar.
Who fucking want to guest?
You know, they'll be these different stations.
Again, that way, everybody's mingling and talking and hanging out.
And I'm really looking forward to the content the speakers are bringing,
but I can't wait just to chill with everybody.
I can't wait to chill.
Thank you so much.
Anything from you, Josh?
No, just I got to be careful about how much I drink there
because I never drink.
And apparently I'm very, very, very, very big lightweight.
So, you know, everybody going to kind of watch out for me.
Apparently I get really sad when I get drunk.
So, you know, man, I need to, I don't know.
We'll see.
Seriously, thank you.
I look forward to seeing how this pans out.
Everybody in the description, the links are there.
The GoFundMe is there.
Help, support, and don't forget we are MidFish.
