Ladies and gentlemen, we are Miss Vision.
Let's go, baby, we up in here.
I got Dr. J Bundy with me.
Dr. J Bundy, you know a little bit about evolution,
so we're going to talk about this.
A little bit.
But I want people to know, I titled this,
Why Are Christians Terrified of Evolution?
And I know, trust me, I know.
There are Christians out there who think evolution is the case,
or they're convinced of some form of theistic evolution and what not.
Right.
So did I want to go, Christian creationist theist,
you know, like how far do I want to go in the title?
And it's pretty simple because me and Dr. J were both Christians at one point.
And you, of course, know about this theory.
And maybe you might address this thing called a theory called evolution.
And what is going on?
So everybody in the chat, take a moment to subscribe
to Dr. J Bundy's YouTube channel.
Go check him out right here.
Locker, locker 86.
Yep.
You got it.
And he knows what he's doing with evolution.
In fact, tell us a little bit about it.
You got to go to live.
That's the video.
You guys saw him live.
I don't be in videos.
I don't do a lot of videos.
There you see.
There's the, there's, that makes it look like I actually make content.
Yeah.
I should have had the live run ready to go.
But you are always on.
So if people are looking for a hang out space where you are able to come,
hang out, throw ideas out there and do that kind of stuff.
Dr. J Bundy's where it's at pocket.
Locker, locker 86.
It's in the description.
It's pinned here in the chat.
Jay, tell us your background.
If you don't mind.
And people, he told me to call him Jay.
Sure.
Sure.
Yeah.
Jay's good to go for sure.
So I started my academic journey at Penn State on a full academic
scholarship, which was something I'm really fortunate and glad to have received
obviously.
But I did, I kind of made my own major.
Actually, I wanted to be a dating coach at the time.
And so I really wanted to study sexual selection in humans.
That wasn't really a major you could take at the time.
So I created my own major.
It was like psychology and sociology and economics.
Anything that got me thinking about human behavior from a systematic and scientific
perspective.
And ultimately that led me to evolutionary psychology and evolutionary biology.
And I ended up doing my masters in biological anthropology and also at Penn State.
And my master's thesis was on sexual selection in men's voices.
I actually found a lab that studied sexual selection in humans.
So it all kind of worked out once I found a lab.
And then I went on to do my PhD at Michigan State University in the lab of Dr. Rich Lensky,
who is the proprietor of the longest running evolution experiment in the history of science,
the Lensky Long Term E. Coli Evolution Experiment.
We call it the LTE.
And yeah, I got my PhD in integrative biology and ecology, evolutionary biology and behavior.
And I moved on to the University of Minnesota where I'm now in the Department of Ecology
Evolution and Behavior in the lab of Dr. Mike Travisano, who's fortunately the head of our
department and also himself, a former Rich Lensky graduate student.
So I kind of was able to stay in the family.
So that was nice.
It's fair to say you understand evolution.
Fair to say.
Fair to say.
Yes.
Excellent.
Excellent.
Yeah.
And I want people to understand you're going to want to stay tuned.
We have courses that will be coming out as well where you're going to actually systematically
through lectures, high quality content, educate people on sex and evolution.
We're here to sell the class.
We're here to sell the class.
We're here to sell the class.
No, I'm saying be on the lookout.
We're going to actually be on the lookout.
Be on the lookout.
Be on the lookout.
We're doing a class.
We're going to want to take that class.
And yeah, I think we're going to really help people understand the theory from the ground
up so that it's not something they're accepting on scientific consensus or because, you know,
experts, they trust have told them that that is in fact the way it is, but they're able
to sort of understand how the theory works, understand how we know it, understand how
we do experiments to test the theory, and then get to the point that they could probably
very easily explain how it works to a friend, coworker, or a loved one.
Now I want to talk to our audience for one second and just say, thank you for tuning
in.
I hope to learn something today.
And I'd like to get, first of all, you can help support us too on Patreon, just a little
short plug, but I'd like to get a statistic here if we can.
If you're on a phone or if you're near a computer and you're watching this, hit one
if you think that human evolution, and I mean macro, the way that there's always this debate
within Christianity, micro, macro, and there's like this, they're totally two different things
and macro is a myth and micro is the case.
Who in here thinks that we come from previous, what we would call species, or at least I
know in the scientific field, they'd probably have a different way to describe this, but
we act like we're different, completely different species.
Yes, yes, absolutely, like a separate kind of being, so to speak, different category.
If you're convinced of the theory of evolution, as it's painted by scientists at large, hit
a one.
If you think that evolution is a myth, it's not true, it's propaganda, it's whatever.
Type two.
I want to see what you think in the chat as we start into this, and I'm curious to kind
of gauge the audience.
So that's great.
I'm seeing a lot of ones.
I hope the two, sorry, just hiding out, but don't feel bad if you're like one or two people
in the chat.
It's true.
There are people, Jay, this is what we deal with.
You see it all the time.
I see it all the time, and so I'm not here to judge.
I'm not at all here to judge, but I am curious to see where people stand and why.
And to be fair, we both started out as believers in that side of things.
Yeah, we both started out as two, so it's all good.
And that's actually kind of the discussion today.
I didn't ask you to bring your PhD thesis to the table.
I'm not asking you to pull out the chemical compounds or show us the fossil record.
If I thought about the fossils, I would have had Erica here right with us and say, hey,
she's a bones and stones girl.
And we're going to do that, actually, at some point.
But today I wanted to talk to you kind of through the psychology of what the processes
and what you encounter and maybe some apologetics that you've seen, but how you respond to those.
And are these Christians seemingly afraid of the reality of what we're facing?
So that's why I titled this.
Yeah, yeah.
I think it's a great title.
So beginning off, let's start with you, right?
Sure.
If we're going to pick on anybody, we've got to pick on ourselves.
Sure, sure.
And I did not think we evolved.
I thought that God, and this is, I know people in the chat who probably never thought this
thing.
How ridiculous.
But I was an errant, infallible believer that the Bible, the Word of God, as described
as detailed, literally happened.
I believe that the earth was a very young earth.
I used to listen to Kent Hovind.
Oh, really?
I didn't know that.
Yeah.
At least 12, 13 years ago, when I was in the reformed camp and in Christianity, I got an
apologetics.
If you go to your Christian bookstore, you'll find a video, a DVD or two somewhere where
these guys pop up.
But I really thought the earth was young.
And I also thought, no, God made Adam like the first man humans.
We did not come from other previous hominid type species or apes or monkeys because they're
still around.
Duh.
Right.
Yeah.
We had the hearse of Walker Logic.
But it's true.
I really said, hey, we did not evolve.
And this is a propaganda, an atheistic worldview trying to strip away the meaning of God.
Kind of like Flat Earth thinks NASA is there to deceive you, some Flat Earthers, I'd say
most, think that this is a deception to get you away from God because the earth is obviously
flat.
Duh.
So I was convinced.
Where were you as a Christian?
It's really interesting because I think in my family growing up, the dominant paradigm
is fundamentalist and very evangelical because I come from five generations, at least administrators
on my mother's side and my grandfather's a Pentecostal bishop, you know, and my grandmother's
the first lady to church.
So that's been their whole life.
I mean, he was the assistant pastor for most of, you know, when I was really young coming
up, but still that was everything.
You know, it was church, I don't know, three or four days a week and, you know, all day,
Sunday, sometimes two or three services, right?
Because you'd have morning, you'd have Sunday school, you'd get something to eat, you'd
have morning service.
Sometimes you went somewhere for afternoon service or another church came to you for
an afternoon fellowship service once in a while.
You'd eat through an evening service and you're not home till, you know, 10 30 at night, grabbing
a bite to eat along the way.
So there's a lot.
And then in our house, my mom had us sort of attending a non-denominational Christian
church.
They spoke in tongues and all that.
No, they didn't.
They were very like liberal.
It was more like cultural Christian, like Christian identity, gospel music, community,
centered kind of feel good Christianity, but none of the hardcore anti this, anti that.
And I actually think that was a problem.
Right.
I think you've got a guest behind you.
Can you introduce your guest?
Introduce the amazing.
Sorry, I'm sorry.
I this is it's the most dogs you get, you know, people only watch you to see the dog.
And they're like, can you stop talking?
I just people are pet friendly.
And we're pet friendly here.
So please continue with the story.
My but yeah, so I kind of was getting it for all different from all different sides.
And I think that changed when I got to high school, because I went to Catholic school,
very Jesuit school.
And so we were taught, you know, evolution, not explicitly like it wasn't they didn't
make a big deal about it, but they certainly didn't deny it because I went to high school
right around the time the Catholic church really started to just be like, no, we're
good with evolution.
It's good to go.
And so we were kind of taught biology and then theology in the next room over in the
lecture hall.
And I remember the director of religious formation at my high school, who we all knew was like
brilliant because he was like a real scholar, even my mom was always impressed by how scholarly
he was, because he I forget what his doctor, what his degrees were, we had a bunch and
then he could speak all the languages and he had been through all the land.
So it reminds me some of the guys you see on your channel where he could go around on
the on a chalkboard and he could just draw the Middle East.
But yeah, and so this story comes to us from the Levant and they're over here and then
these other peoples they're over here.
And then he would go into the the word right in the script and then we're talking about
and he could give you all the translations and what the words meant and all that.
So we kind of had that very academic take on at least especially the Genesis narrative,
right?
Because he told us explicitly Genesis is our creation narrative.
And that whole idea of oh, well, parts of it are borrowed from the Epic of Gilgamesh
and you know, there are elements that come from we were taught that in school.
So he literally would just say, yes, this is our theology, which you learn in biology
is biology.
So I had to kind of be taught that there was this controversy.
And I didn't realize that although I was sort of schooled in a way that reconcile the two
things the faith of my family that I was actually practicing.
There really was a conflict and I didn't recognize that until really once I was like in the lab
probably I was like really deep, you know, because it's college campuses, I think a lot
of times where people are hearing the debates and the controversy and stuff like that.
So if you come from like a Catholic high school, you're not you don't know that there's a controversy
between the two.
See I came out of like more of a fundamentalist kind of background as well.
But in the private school I went to in sixth grade was young Earth creationism kind of
you know, really radical fundamentalism Christian school.
Yeah.
And I learned about Christianity more and more and and you know, I don't know a timeline
exactly but I know when I went to high school, I had a biology professor named Mr. Pope.
And Mr. Pope was an atheist.
He would say like I don't believe in God, but I'm going to tell you evolution in our
public school right like he just tell it.
And I purposely would not answer his questions when he would give us multiple choice or give
us a test because he wanted us to admit that we evolved from previous species and I had
already been like somewhat brainwashed into the you know, apologetic camp.
I failed his class one year and the next year I had to take a different biology teacher's
class and to give you like a little, I guess a snippet of where I ended up after high school,
I'm like deep into apologetics and like studying some philosophy.
I bump into him at a Lowe's when he's getting like wood in the local town.
And he's like, Hey, you still studying and learning and stuff.
And I'm like, yeah, he goes, remember everything he said, remember, everything is relative.
And I looked at him and I said, Are you absolutely sure because that told him I'd been engaging
with apologetics.
Yes.
Absolutely.
Are you sure?
Yeah.
Exactly.
And then he's like, Ah, you've been studying.
He goes, he just looked at me and said, Keep studying.
That's what he told me.
Keep studying.
I haven't spoken to him since I'm trying to connect with him to interview him and have
him come on and say, Do you remember when I, when I used to like be that kid in your
class that used to take, we were created.
No, we were created.
I would argue with him as a teacher, but I knew my lines.
Well, the day came, I saw him at the spa.
I was working at a local gym spa and I walked up to him in jacuzzi and I don't know why I
felt like I needed to ask him, said, Can I ask you why you don't believe in God?
And I'm a freaking fire and brimstone, hard, passionate Christian, but I didn't, I did
not want to respond.
I just wanted to hear his answer and he said, Well, I had a kid.
I had a daughter and she got an infection in her nose and they found that it was a bacteria
that was in her nose.
I can't remember the name of it, you know, bacteria have quite long names.
Yes.
And he said, I remember I prayed and I asked like, I everything inside of me was hinging
on this.
Like, like this is your time to prove to show me that you exist in light of all his science
that he ever had his whole life.
This was the opportunity God had to show this man that he existed is how he put it.
And when his his daughter's face deteriorated in the bacteria ate the flesh off of her
face to her brain.
She died.
Wow.
Right.
He said, at that point, I knew this was his face.
I'll never forget the soberness.
He said, I knew that there was no God listening to my voice when I cried for my daughter.
This is what he told me.
And as a Christian, I was like, it scared the crap out of me.
I was like, but I couldn't say anything.
It was so emotionally deep.
What he said, I walked away and I was like, he's just her my response.
He's just her.
He doesn't realize that this is all for a bigger plan.
Like all of that was my rationalization.
Yes, it's there.
Yeah.
But he had a point about a personal God here.
And so this is kind of my I wanted to to marry your story to mine as we get into this.
What has been I mean, obviously you go to college.
Is that where this changed where you went?
Oh, my goodness.
It's so I think, yes.
And I became a theistic evolutionist for a while.
It was really weird, right?
Because I on one hand, I got an evolution trying to basically understand relationships
and seduction.
So that was already a mess because I'm trying to be like a pickup artist, but be a good
guy who's still a Christian and is like, you know, you're trying to take the anti social
stuff you're learning and like repackage it into like good guy, you know, techniques
or whatever.
And so that so that was already kind of in a weird place.
And then I think once I really accepted the evidence of evolution, at first I just became
a theistic evolution.
I kind of felt like that's what that's what I was there for.
I started with that framework, right?
I started assuming that science was a way to learn how God did whatever he did.
And that's kind of why I always felt like it was encouraged, like you were encouraged
to study, you were encouraged to go to school, you were encouraged to learn nature and all
of this stuff, because you would just understand the wonders of how we wove it all together.
And so I had that perspective for a really long time, I think, and it's hard because
I think for me, it was a really long process, right?
And so I know there were like different phases.
I was like, I was definitely at a different point here than I was here.
But I never had that like, oh, I woke up one day and I wasn't a believer anymore.
I went to the evolution and then I was it was I was going to my dying breath.
Was yours like this?
Like you already weren't a believer and then you realize months later that you weren't
and you're like, hold on, I think it's time to like what I am now, because it's like
I'm already not now.
Yes, I'll tell you what happened.
So another thing about it, kind of some of it's coming back to me.
So one big thing was I remember I actually went in search earlier for the historical
Jesus and I read this book called Son of Man and it was basically trying to reconstruct
who Jesus would have been as a human being.
And it was really interesting.
It was kind of like it was trying to recreate the fact that like, no,
we don't even know if that was his real name.
So maybe he was Smith of nowhere.
And, you know, could anything come of Nazareth?
So he's just really something.
So it's getting me because I was trying to figure out, wait, how do I live like Jesus?
I'm supposed to live like Jesus.
I don't understand who just Jesus the man was.
Yeah, I keep telling me all the stuff in church.
I can't fly.
I can't turn on the wine.
I'm not born without sin.
I got to figure out who that dude walking around was.
And I think later on when I started to get into anthropology and stuff like that,
I eventually realized that that was a book written from an apologist, right?
It was an apologist book.
But it did get me thinking deeper about something that your audience thinks
about the history, the story, what do we really know?
How can we put and I think it got me interested in sort of
sort of Christian reconstruction.
But the thing that happened was there was some group and I don't remember their name,
but they basically manipulated a student group.
And by that, I mean, there was some group from out of state, like some national
group, and they get tied in with some students so that a student can invite them
to campus to host like a thing.
And so they hosted this, I think they called it the Creation Summit or something.
And it was supposed to be like a debate where they were calling out the scientist
to have the evolution debate.
And of course, they know that for the most part, the scientists,
especially the top tier scientists, don't engage in these debates.
And so they were calling out my graduate advisor at the time, Richard Lensky,
Charles of Fria, who wrote the software program of Vita because I do mostly
digital evolution.
So they kind of went after my mentor who started that, who wrote that software.
And then Robert Pennock, who wrote Tower of Babel Evidence Against
the New Creationism, he's my teaching mentor.
You told me to.
Yeah, he's my teaching mentor.
And he's he's my he was the expert witness at the Kits Miller versus Dover trial.
And so they called them out like, oh, come debate us, like unless you're scared.
And that was kind of it for me.
Like it was it was a bridge too far in the fact that I felt like I had
transitioned to essentially a university man and academic.
It's not OK to manipulate student groups like this, like that's not OK.
It's definitely not OK to be, you know, doing this kind of chess beating.
I'm going to call out scientists who, you know, you know, won't show up unless
they're scared type of language.
It was it was very ugly and it was it was marketed all over campus.
And then they just sat up there.
I didn't go. The scientists, they called out.
My my advisors didn't guard knew I wouldn't be able to sit still.
But a bunch of the other grad students went and then they just made fools of themselves.
And it was funny because they gave away an iPad.
That was their whole thing to get people there.
And then somebody else in my lab won the iPad.
So we won their stupid iPad.
That was funny. We were happy that we won that iPad.
But no, that really was it for me.
I was that was that was the first time I really said to myself, oh,
I don't want to be associated with the people who would do this like anymore.
And that was really where I stopped at wanting to identify as a Christian.
And then I also realized because I realized like they were they were they were fighting to defend a lie.
And so you could see dishonest tactics to put it bluntly.
Yeah, yeah, their approach to this topic, this issue.
And this debate's been going on.
I'm sure you know, being a scientist, like in courts,
over and over and over and the science is constantly ruled or within in this in the court cases.
So and they all know that.
So to do it anyway, after you've been, you know, it's it's it's not science.
That's that's been explained over and over and over again.
It's been settled in court. That is not science.
It's also been documented. That's unconstitutional.
So, you know, I brought this up in my debate against Ken Hoven.
If anybody wants to check that out, as I'm standing for Truths Channel,
there's this 300th debate.
But it's you know, I did something so different in that.
So just fair warning, fair warning.
You are literally going in there going, I'm going to debate you for real.
You were like, I'm going to murder you.
And then it this is in Hoven.
Like, yeah, you know, but it was but the but the bigger thing was,
I think I part of what was so different was I took the tact,
rather of not going over the genetics, not talking about the fossils,
not talking about the proteins and rather saying, no, there's been legal court cases
that already established that this is not science.
This is not how science works, right?
And I use Rob's testimony from the Kits Miller versus Dover trial
and then also talked about how it's been ruled that it isn't constitutional
by conservative judges.
So that's a bigger problem
that I think is happening is that there's somehow this license
to almost commit fraud when it's for the purposes of your religion.
I remember I've you ever seen the second Bill Nye versus Ken Ham debate?
They did the one everybody knows about.
But then they did.
I think that was maybe at the museum or whatever, the Creation Museum or something.
They did a second one actually at the Ark encounter.
And it's like a walking debate, like Ken Ham is walking
Bill Nye through the encounter with the like touring Christian groups,
like kind of behind them watching.
And I haven't seen.
And I remember saying to myself, this is child abuse.
It was the first time I recognized Christian indoctrination as child abuse,
which is a point my friend James Apperson has talked about a lot.
And it was it was because he kept using.
He kept like Ken Ham kept like going gesturing to the children
and then going to Bill Nye.
So you want to tell this little girl right here that her life has no purpose,
that she's just some kind of animal, you know, and he kept.
And I'm going, no.
Like even like, you know, like this is way too far.
And and I and I really remember feeling like there needs to be some sort of class
action because you can't because you remember they've lied to the government,
right? They they go, oh, we're building a museum.
And then we go, that's not a museum, right?
The museums, you know, fit into certain, you know, naturalistic academic category.
So they don't do that.
Then they get it licensed as a theme park.
OK, this is a theme park.
It's not a museum.
Oh, you're going to call it a museum anyway.
I mean, what's a boat that doesn't float?
Right. Like like none of this works.
And at some point, somebody has to stop and say, you know, they did all this to
for a lie. They did all this for something they knew wasn't true.
They've been told over and over and over, was it true? I mean, and and so.
Or they're dead wrong and they're just doubling down on nonsense.
So but at that point, it wouldn't matter if I if I if I set up.
Uh, let's just say a virus treatment clinic in my basement, right?
And I was in shooting people with bleach.
Let's just say, right?
And I believed it.
I said, the president said on TV, this might work.
I really believed it.
I mean, is anybody going to say this is OK?
No, nobody would.
But if it's if I just I just think there's a special class of crazy.
And we have to get to a point where
we we address that because in some sense, it feels almost like.
Well, I don't want to say I don't say we're losing ground,
but we're certainly not doing the type of things we can to gain it.
By that, I just mean to me like evolution is the most well supported
scientific theory there's ever been. It had to be right.
It would have never been accepted until there was overwhelming evidence.
You know, just just for the obvious reasons, right?
Well, I this this super chat here actually is in this.
And thank you, Zachary, for the support.
I really appreciate that pocket locker 86.
How do you respond to the creationist argument that micro and macro evolution
are different? How different are the two really?
I want to while this question is being asked, I want to emphasize
something that I think is important.
You just said something profound that is the most documented,
most well established theory in science.
Here's the here's the issue.
It's so well documented that even Christians
recognize they need to use the language.
So they have to go, oh, yeah, evolution, micro, though.
And they want to they want to hijack the language,
but then they want to specify how it works.
So can you answer this question for the quick way to respond to this is
they're not different. There is no difference.
Micro evolution is just referring to
what is, you know, observable changes that can happen relatively.
It's just a smaller scale.
And what what bothers me about this is that it's an inherently dishonest position.
There's never been a distinction between the two.
I think what where this comes from, and maybe that's the important thing
to understand is where this comes from.
This comes from the idea that, you know, they part of the apologetic is,
oh, you know, I believe in science, I buy science, science is just what you can
observe. And so then they then they know we can observe mutations.
They know we can observe variation within a species.
And so they say, oh, well, I buy micro evolution because I know
you get changes in populations.
I know you get mutations.
I know you get different breeds of dog and all of this type of stuff.
And so they're saying, since we can observe those changes,
you know, over the course of our lifetime or or to whatever
timescale meets their satisfaction, they're going to call that micro revolution.
The truth is, Mike, they're there, there's just one evolutionary process.
And so most evolutionary biologists
quite frankly refuse to even acknowledge a difference beyond saying that there's
you can you can argue some people will say micro revolution to say evolution,
you know, within a species level, right?
And then when you go beyond species level or go beyond genus,
maybe that's now macro evolution.
But they're always going to be arbitrary because there is no distinction.
You're all you're always you're always.
And again, the thing that I don't like about it is you're almost letting
the wrong side of this set the conversation.
If evolutionary biologists established this conversation,
this wouldn't be a conversation.
So it's sad that my head set up this distinction.
And then now we've got to explain a difference that isn't a difference
so people can understand that they shouldn't have been thinking of it as a difference to be.
Right, right, right. That's why I say the answer is no.
That's why I was going to say if I like is it wrong of me that my mind went,
have you ever seen a dog produce a like that was what immediately came
to my mind when I started thinking about this whole speciation.
That's essentially the argument.
And then and then they're going to say, because, you know,
we can get 50,000 varieties of cow, but they're all cows,
but we never see a non cow from a cow.
You know, that's where they write off macro.
And it's it's it's all wrong.
So first off, we we do observe macro revolution.
That's what the fossil record is.
That's what that's what the genomic patterns we see.
I mean, so so we we know that we've observed that we've also had,
you know, whatever level they they argue for, you know, arguably,
we actually see those things happen, right?
So we've seen speciation events.
We've seen new genus has come about.
So, you know, that's that's not again, none of the markers work, right?
And then what's really frustrating about some of this is.
It sort of misrepresents the nature of science fundamentally.
Science is about empiricism, right?
And so a lot of times the observations don't have to be direct.
You don't have to know that one of your children drank the rest of the orange juice.
You can simply know, hey, there's only me, my significant other
and these kids in this house, my significant other is allergic to orange juice.
I didn't drink the last of the orange juice.
There is, in fact, no more orange juice, one of them kids finished orange juice.
You don't have to set up a baby cam in the corner of the kitchen and then say,
well, since I didn't see who drank the last couple of orange juice,
we just have no idea, you know, and and so I just and this is the other thing
that I think may help our audience out a lot is I'm.
I'm almost.
Scared in some ways, myself to get too much into the scientific weeds with people.
Because as much as I think the skeptic side, the people who are, let's say,
pro science or whatever, really love that information because they're interested
and they want to know more.
I find that those type of details are not going to.
They're not really what the issue is, right?
The issue is sort of this emotional, like you said, they're terrified of evolution.
If the issue was the evidence, they'd already be on board.
And what I'm finding is, and this is the scary part, most of the Christians
that I engage with that don't accept evolution, they're so ignorant.
Like willfully that I don't think pointing out new scientific details
or information helps very much with them.
So that's been your experience.
Yeah.
And to them, it's it's more, at least with me now, I'm I'm more hoping
to connect to a person interpersonally and get them to realize that I think
they have a very serious blind spot regarding their faith.
And I think that has to be addressed first.
I get it.
I feel what you're saying.
So that's what I was actually going to follow up with the question.
And you kind of touched on it was, why do you think they're so afraid?
But we can go deeper into this, because it's not quite quite answered.
Sure.
Or your perspective, what do you think scares many Christians?
I'm not saying all, but there's definitely a larger amount from my
experience online that I encounter who either just don't want to talk about it
or or you find the Christians who accept it and they just go, but the Bible
is not talking about actual creation.
They've gone on a more little approach.
But what do you think about the people who deny evolution?
Why do you think they're denying it?
What are they afraid of?
Sure, I do think that it's it differs from person to person.
And I can definitely see that I actually think there's it's a good it's a great
conversation when you brought up because I think different things scare different people.
And I kind of want to get something out of the way first and talk about the whole
theistic evolution.
You don't have to reject evolution to be a theist or a believer or a Christian
or believe that the Bible is true.
You can reconcile all those things.
Now, I will admit, I personally find them irreconcilable, but people do.
And given that the nature of science is to stick to the empirical and the observable
and and stay within the restraints of the scientific method, certainly there are all
types of arguments you can make for your faith that don't subject it to that.
And I just don't have anything to say about that.
I don't find any of those particular ways of resolving Christianity in particular with
modern science to be satisfying from either side.
I think you're being less than honest with yourself about what science really has to
say, right?
I think you're taking a limit and going too far with it.
We know science only deals with the empirical.
So to me saying, well, my God, this time of spaceless immaterial being William
Lane Craig doesn't solve the problem.
It gets you out of a tough conversation if you want, right?
But you you you've just argued essentially the indefensible to me.
And so I like I just I just don't even care at that point.
So I just want to get that out of the way because it's kind of the hashtag,
not all Christians that we probably had to hang for the episode.
But in reality, let's talk about what I think the people who are terrified by this are terrified
of. Number one, I think if you're a literal six day creationist, then you've you've just
got problems because we now have evidence that that's not true and undeniable evidence that
that's not true. And again, it's one of those things where if somebody's trying to have this
conversation with you, there's something else going on.
You don't need to understand what they don't know about science.
You've got to understand why they're so dependent on Jesus until you figure out what that Jesus
hook is. You know, spouting off an encyclopedia of scientific facts isn't going to move them
out an inch is not. But that's that's sort of the big thing.
Like if you if you, you know, because the earth is billions of years old, life is billions of
years old. And that's it. It's just there's no way around that. You know, that's the end of it.
That brings me to thinking like, so point blank, some interpretive framework or understanding
about the literature has to be the foundation. So they're afraid that if you're rocking that
foundation, it can't be true. They've already convinced themselves that this is what interprets
the world, not your scientific method, not your. Yeah, and there's I have a lot of compassion for
people like this, because I don't want I don't want to make there's a very big difference between I
think if we really drew this out between saying my my grandmother's Pentecostalism and my mother's
non denominational type of Christian. And I think for my people like my mother and a lot of
more liberal Christians, I think they're more. I think we feel like they're more reasonable
people socially, politically, you know, they're not as dogmatic about their biblical beliefs.
But I don't I don't know what kind of footing they're on the theologically because the book
says what it says. Right. So when you when you come to me, oh, well, it says it was six days,
but it's really a merit metaphor because it's day, you know, we call it a day age creationism. So
it was really ages. It could have been eons and eons and eons, but they're just days in God's
time. So he uses that word so that humans can communicate. Now, cool, you're probably on
good footing with Catholics. But again, where are you getting that from? Where does where does
where does God say that? Like, I just don't know. And if God was that was the story that would be
in the story. So you're already you're off, you're just off. And at least with the fundamentalist,
they're saying the book says what it says, right? Right. Now, other people, I think if you're not,
if you're not that, if you're, if you're not, it has to be six days. If you're just a still a
young earth person, whatever that means, maybe not six days of creation, but you don't buy the
account. That's also a problem, right? Because again, the earth is not young. So I know there
are people who can say I'm not a six day literalist, but I am a young earth creationist.
You're still done. Okay. So, so that's a problem.
To me, there was a bigger problem, even for old earth creationist or theistic creationists. And
that is number one, I just there's a couple of different problems here. And I'm gonna kind of
your audience is really highly educated. So I like to have these conversations because I
can't have them with other people too nuanced. If you like what he said, press one. If you don't
like what he said, hit two. Let's see those ones and twos in the chat. I know, I know what the
crowd is like. But all right, so on, so on one hand, you have what I want to call the
non creator problem. If you just accept evolution, you just have this this this basically
what's the word here? I'm looking for Occam's razor. A lot of your audience would know it as
right parsing parsimony, we say in science, right? You don't add stuff to the model that's
unnecessary. So now we have this model of how we got to be here. It doesn't just explain cats and
dogs explains how we got here. And it says you don't need God at all. You just don't, you don't,
you don't need that. And so if you're being honest about science, if you're being honest about
parsimony, so now you're saying we can get to life in humans in our intelligence and spaceships
and all of that with no need of God. And so now you have this real issue of who is your God if
we can explain creation without him? Is what I call the non creator. If you're going to say,
if you really go all the way and say we're, we're not created, then who is your God? If he's not,
who is he? That was a big problem for me. So from a theistic to put that in a nutshell,
the theistic evolutionary, it's buying in all the properties that you've described,
the evidence that we evolved. God's not literally here like building us, you know, like pictures,
but it's just natural processes. Whereas somehow metaphysically or some unexplainable way,
there seems to be an essence of the deity somehow. Or he said it in motion or even just like God is
the source of natural laws. And we say Darwin's law, it's the name of my class, it's also the
name of the course we'll do, Darwin's law. We'll just say Darwin's law is one of those laws. So he
came up with physical laws and gravity. And then he came up with this organic law that we might
call Darwin's law. And so I think for some people, it's just a, that's just a, it's a bit too far
because we don't need that, right? If they're on, they're honest when they're going, that's not
parsimonious. You're saying my God's not necessary. My God's got to be necessary. You know, he can't
just be possible, maybe, or well, we're not really, he's got to be necessary. And you're telling me
he's not necessary. Now the other thing is a slight wrinkle or looking at that same coin,
maybe from the other side, and I call it the mundane God. What you're saying is we have a model
where my God's not, not, it, it, this is almost a theological perspective now. Now you're going
to tell me there is a God, he's the most powerful, the most awesome, all of this, but the world works
just as though it would if, as though he didn't. Right. So the world in which God is
all of that and everything, and the world in which God is a figment of my imagination are
completely indistinguishable from each other. And that's the emotional issue. Dr. Jay, if I may,
okay, you're not used to me calling you Dr. Jay, but I'm going to do it. No, it's okay.
I have to, I have to. It's fine, it's all over. One more thing that we're going to get to these
super chats because people are really chiming in and want to hear your thoughts, and I really
appreciate your wisdom and learning in this. He is a scientist for those who are tuning in now,
and you are obviously aware of evolution. There's another thing that I have been learning,
as I've been learning from people like you and others, is that there's so much death
in life. Like while we talk about life, there's so much that has been dying for
billions of years since life has spawned itself on this planet. And there's so much death
that makes you kind of question how active is this God in causing death of so much life
if you're saying it's, is he struggling to keep things alive? I mean, like, where are you,
this is more of like a theological question. Yeah, no, it really is. And that's part of the
thing too, is I always tell people, I don't think I'd be an evolutionary biologist if I didn't grow
up a Christian because, you know, I was really in a theology. I always wanted to be the top
theology student in my class. And I remember even my great grandfather talking to my grandfather
and saying, you know, we're all preachers, but, you know, Jason is the biblical scholar in the
family, you know, not compared to your audience. But, you know, like really, I was, I was always,
I was always really serious about this. And so I think that was part of it for me was
once I realized that if I was going to accept God, he was again this mundane God, like I didn't,
I didn't, God wasn't a parsimonious. That was just, I didn't need him anymore. Well, then I was like,
well, I don't, you know, it undermined Jesus. And I think this is the thing I wanted to touch
on that. I don't think it's brought up enough. And I can't say that have scientific evidence
of this, right? But this is what I feel like I think the issue is for a lot of people. I think
a lot of Christians, I know this is what the issue is. This naturalistic framework that says
we are animals, period end of story, we evolved period end of story, undermines the need for
Jesus. It says, no, we're not cursed. Oh, all the mutations, all the death, all the disease,
that's just, that's just the nature of reality. And so I really realized that the salvation narrative
itself was sort of bankrupt for me. If God didn't create us, I always would very simply,
if God did not create us, he does not have the power over life and death. If he does not have the
power over life and death, he cannot grant me eternal life through Jesus Christ.
Now, when you really get naturalistic on it, you go as far as to say, and that's not even a good
thing, right? You realize, I don't want to live forever. It's not good for the population for
us to live forever. Death is the thing. The pop is not me that you want to go on forever. It's
the population. So I want to, we got to go. You got to go. I will want you all taking up resources.
You know, we have to let the generations go, right? It's about generations over time.
So it says, why would you want any more than your one generation inheritance?
So I think those are some of the probably like the deeper philosophical issues that don't get
brought up, because I think on the Christian side, you don't want to go there. And then on the
secular or the scientific side, we don't go there because it's just sort of not our dominion,
right? But it is a great thing to talk about because people have to put these things together
in their head, in their life, right? They don't get to say, well, I'm not going to, you know,
they don't get the compartmentalize always. This is what people are really dealing with.
There's a scientific thing that they learn about. It challenges their theology, sometimes
undermines the very core of that theology. And now they're going to have an emotional response
to the undercutting of their theology. It's not just the facts of the matter type of issue for
people. Let me give you my two cents. And then if we can get to super chats and have you address
those. I'm not going to take long. I know that everybody's been waiting patiently. And I want
them to be vicariously living in this live stream with us. I'm hogging it up. But it's
something that while I have you on here on air, maybe people will relate to this point I'm making.
My point about saying there's so much death is for millions, billions of years, let's just go
with millions, hundreds of millions for like larger life on the planet, right? From dinosaurs,
you know, all the way down to what we're at, or even well before dinosaurs. My point is,
is the life life. If God has actively involved taking the theistic approach, theistic evolution
approach, you have to imagine how much death if he's steering pretend he's the Pied Piper,
everything's dancing to his tune. He steers stuff to death. And it's like brought up another one
of my theories now. So everybody get your popcorn. You got Monday and Jesus, right? All right,
but this this one is God as a tinkerer, right? You've reduced God to the tinkerer, right? He's
like you said, he's in control of the process, but it's just his mechanism is tinkering. It's
random mutations and everything dies with just enough survives that the thing doesn't go extend.
That's not the creator. The creator is supposed to be like poof, light, turtles, and then there's
a perfect turtle. And you tell me, yeah, he made a turtle, but he did it by like, first he made
some undifferent. So much death before. Yeah, 99% of everything died. And then, you know,
three and a half billion years into the process, here comes this cool green thing with the show.
And again, it's just, it's just what a tinkerer, like he's just in that workshop, tinkering,
doesn't really quite know what he wants to do. And that's that's not a comfortable, there's no,
I didn't, I don't, I don't know. There's no really, I don't think there's a comfortable way to make
God and evolution lie down in the same bed. But quickly before we go to super chat, Steve and Jay
Gould has this quote, people probably heard of non overlapping magisterium, like they
answered different questions. And I have some respect for that in terms of
different ways of knowing or whatever that means to people. I don't want to disrespect
non scientific ways of knowing. But the way I always put it is science is
expressing uncertainty in the face of the best possible evidence.
Faith is expressing certainty with no evidence at all. So there's, to me,
there's, that is why they're irreconcilable. Scientists, you say, I have to have the best
evidence I can possibly have. And even when I have the best evidence possible, I still have
to express some uncertainty because I could change it, there could be new evidence, there could be
something new. But with faith, you go, I'm certain in this, I'm holding on to this.
But you're not holding on to anything. So they would, they would obviously
disagree with your definition there. And they would say, actually, I have had confirmation,
because one time I flipped a coin, giving an analogy. And it landed on heads after I said,
God, make sure this lands on heads. Or I found my car keys after ask God, you know, or somehow
he convinced me with something that became like, Oh my gosh, he just answered the very thing I was
asking for, or whatever it may be, they find that as evidence. Or they say, we do have the
evidence, we have the text, the text says it. And so that to me is just as much evidence as
saying Romulus ascended on higher Osiris ascended from the dead by reading pyramid text, or whatever.
So it's not evidence. It's really just, I mean, you could count it as evidence. But
by that same criteria, that's a conversation you could have with them.
All the other gods exist and did the things then at that point. Okay, super chats. Here we go.
Thank you for being patient. And thank you for answering this question.
Forgive me, I'm going to put your name a quick, a quick, a quick way to disarm any creationist.
Oh, wow, a quick way to disarm any creationist. Let me think.
I think basically tell them that evolution is a pack of facts. I would tell them evolution is
true. And that that doesn't mean that they can't still be a believer. Right? Just just I always,
I always, and I always say this, I even say this on my channel, like I said this again,
hope and debate, if somebody tells you that they have a version of their faith, that is completely
consistent with all of the scientific evidence, and you tell them that they don't, you just don't
take their theology that seriously. So just give them a just give them just give them a break,
just disarm them, tell them, tell them, give them the benefit of the doubt, right? And let them kind
of kind of get there. I like that. Yeah, I like that. Well put, thank you for that. During chill,
I was joking, the guy says evolution is a pack of lies. And I was like, tell them that evolution is
a pack of truth. That wouldn't disarm. And I imagine he put his weapons up. Oh, wait, I forgot one.
Also tell them most Christians accept evolution. Do most Christians? Yeah, yes, yes. I think that's
the deities of most Christians accept evolution. Okay, if we're, yeah, probably worldwide, I would
imagine, especially adding countings. That many do, yeah, I don't know, whatever. But give them
something about Christians accepting evolution, they'll be good to go. Get on the boat with the
rest. I did. I always thought I was a long, I was an evolutionary biologist a long time before I was
an atheist. Okay, there you go. Darin says XJW, we told scientists don't agree with evolution.
Yeah, I mean, that's, yeah, that's not uncommon that scientists are told not to agree with evolution.
And matter of fact, it's really weird. One thing I can speak to, even at a university like Michigan
State, you kind of silo the training to where you have people who go through, get degrees in biology,
get degrees in chemistry, and all this stuff. And it's not to say that they don't agree with
evolution, they don't agree with evolution, they don't agree with evolution, they don't agree with
get degrees in chemistry, and all this stuff. And it's not to say that they've never heard of
evolution, but they might not ever take an evolutionary biology class or really have to
wrestle with the theory. So we often find that our students who are seniors, it's a senior seminar,
so they're on their way out the door. So like their last semester at school, and they're in almost
85 plus percent of them are on their way to med school, they really have not thought through
evolutionary theory or even read a chapter of the origin of species or any of that. So even at that
high level, it's still very new to students. They're like most of the people in the audience,
they accept it, they've got to rememberize something about mutations or genes on an exam or
whatever they do that, and they move on about their lives. They don't really think about the
broader implications until they get in front of us. Well put. Thank you so much for that.
Did I answer the yes, I did. Here's the next one, vaguely agnostic in the house. Good to see you
here. Christianity brings in 400 billion annually worldwide. Wouldn't you have an army of apologists
to keep that money rolling in? Bottom line, baby. Yeah, I mean, this is something I think is
interesting. I don't know why the truth doesn't sell, but it doesn't. I actually want to do a
stream on this where I want to say that there's like, there's something wrong with YouTube content
creators and YouTube viewers. And it's not like I don't I don't mean literally I don't mean this
to your audience or my audience. But what I mean is you would be so much more popular if you were
an apologist. If you were just lying to people, you'd be better. If you are a person who's like,
you know what, I want to stand up for the rights of LGBT people. Good luck. If you want to just
crap all over LGBT people, get ready to make some money. So there's something going on here. Like
Dr. Fauci recently said that Twitter is like a cesspool of misinformation. And you could say
the same thing about YouTube, but this is a little bit more than that. It's not just the
misinformation. It's like, people are hungry to like, let their bad side out or something, right?
And we are going to have to start to think bigger picture. Like I love the fact that you're doing
this professionally. I love the fact that you're out here on Patreon, because we've got to figure
out how do we support our community so that we can grow so that we can have some of this influence?
Because people may not know this, but it matters to this question. I played drums. I haven't been
because of COVID, but let's set COVID aside. I played drums at a church as a worship drummer.
And people ask me, why would I do that as an evolutionary biologist and atheist? And the
reason is because we can't afford to live in a bubble the same way they can.
Like we always say, oh, we just teach the best we can and we build it. If we build it, they'll come.
No, creationists aren't coming to an evolutionary biology class. They're not going to take your
class. It doesn't matter how good it is. It doesn't matter how awesome it is, how much you do active
learning. If you really want to make a difference, you have to be able to go to them. Because the
way the current balance sucks, you can go to a church and then you could work for people for
your church, go to a grocery shop with people from your church, go to the pharmacist's people
from your church. You can literally just make your whole life a bubble of all church people.
And so number one, we got to start to do that ourselves as atheists. And we got to go penetrate
them bubbles so that they're not in as much of an echo chamber and they can start to see your
friendly face on the other side. Thank you, Jay. Appreciate that. Brady Goodwin, for those who don't
know, Fanatics. So this is actually the well-known Grammy-nominated award-winning
hip hop, Christian Hip Hop. Oh, man. Love that. Awesome. Awesome. He's in house. Thank you so
much for that support. I'm a non-award, non-Grammy-winning mediocre rapper. So, okay. Good. Congratulations.
It's a tough road, though. I appreciate the artist. Appreciate it. He says,
what do you say to those who reject evolution? Because Darwin was, or Darwinism, is inherently
racist? It's not. It's just, it isn't. It's usually a misrepresentation of Darwinism.
To be honest, I don't even like the term Darwinist. If somebody calls me a Darwinist,
I always correct them. The term is evolutionary biologist. I don't like the term evolutionist
either. But no, I would say that evolutionary theory is what demonstrates to us that we all
evolved from Africa. And so there's nothing racist about evolutionary theory. In fact,
it helps us understand that race is a social construct. When we say race is a social construct
that people made up, it's evolutionary theory that helped us understand, oh, wait. And let me
be clear about that, because that's something people hear a lot. When we say race is a social
construct, what we mean is that there's more variation within a group than between groups.
So if you said who's short and who's tall, you would find that, let's just say black people
and white people overlap in who's tall. And there's a whole bunch of short black people and a whole
bunch of tall ones and the same thing, white ones. So we always overlap and we don't separate. So
we have a lot of variation within all of our groups. And there's not a lot that separates us.
And so it's actually evolutionary theory that helps us support anti-racist and anti-racist
understanding of humanity. And furthermore, it's an ad hominem attack. Even if Darwin was the most
racist person to ever have racist, it would not change the fact that this is still the most
well supported theory in the history of science. I found it quite like a revelation to find out
we all come from Africa as well. And when I first heard that, I was like, wow, this could really
help to unite. And this is actually one of the problems. I had Erica on my channel. I don't
want to rabbit-troll too often. She was dealing with a pseudo guy. I'm not even going to mention
his name, but he literally is trying to break down and act like us coming out of Africa and
the out of Africa theory is complete bogus. And then he wanted to, in the video, wanted to say
it was Asians and Caucasians that are unique and the Africans could descend from a much more
primitive model of, you see the racism coming in. Bro, she tore that guy, a whole new one.
And he had cult members come into her YouTube channel like crazy to come, call her names,
all sorts of stuff. Guts at Gibbon doesn't play games, but I saw it balances the playing field.
It completely flattened the whole thing. And it's also interesting, too, because speaking to
that, it's often the other side that is doing so much of that bigoted dog whistling. And then,
ironically, they want to throw that on the scientific side. So you just be careful because
I'm always like, cool, if you're going to tell me, for instance, you'll hear somebody say, oh,
the left and the progressives are emotionally manipulating people of color so that they monopolize
the vote of people of color. I'm like, oh, cool. So then you're definitely worried about the dog
whistling and racism on the right then, right? You know what I'm saying? So people will be like,
oh, well, yeah, I heard Darwinism is racist. So now I'm an anti-Darwinist. Oh, yeah, because they're
all good to go with equality. Get out of here. It doesn't even make any sense.
Right. But yeah, it's a great question. Great question.
Thank you for that. Blork, Povet, forgive me if I butchered that. Fundamentalist and non-literal
Christians seem to both not understand Genesis in its ancient Near Eastern context. Scholars seem
to think the intent was theological rather than strictly historical. Yeah, that's the way we were
taught. Now, I don't even know what all of this means, right? Because when we start getting to
theology and metaphor, you can always say it's about a bigger picture. And I would say, well,
isn't that bigger picture about Jesus coming to die from my sins? Because that's not true.
It could be pointing to a bigger picture, but the bigger picture is still a watercolor fiction.
But I certainly think that's the conversation that should be had now is people trying to say,
Genesis make more sense even as a theological text or historical text. And I think the theological
side will win. And I assume a lot of the scholars you have can speak to that and maybe do.
I would imagine the theological side will win for the reasons we've been bringing up in this
episode so far, but also strictly ancient Near Eastern context. If you're looking at it, just
to give the super chat some something of I think relevance to this is the literalists
are definitely taking it at face value. But what it is doing and it looks like it's doing,
it's kind of like the universe or the cosmology of the world and everything in it, the water,
the land, the sky, light, darkness, the sun, moon and stars, they're all listed here in Genesis.
This is God's cosmic temple. And it's like making it function. So they would say in the Hebrew,
it's not ex nihilo, like God out of nothing says turtle, you know, like, this gives the people
who are theistic evolution, people. Yes. Oh, I can allow gradual variation in all this. Yeah.
I can allow all that because this Genesis is not talking about that. It's just almost like
sanctifying in a one day week, the creation of the world. They're not saying that it was created.
Literally in that one week. I don't know. I don't know if if that's ultimately the case either,
because when I read some of the Psalms and stuff and it talks about God as the Creator,
where is that at? And like, does this mean that like, there was no actual creation of these things?
Was Adam, as it describes out of dirt from clay, really, because Adam and Red
mold him like, why go into the vivid description there? If you're not trying to tell people who
are reading this, hey, God made man out of the clay, literally made him like a play object.
I also say to like, where do you get the nature of God from if not from those stories, right?
Like if you throw out Genesis, then where's God come from? Right? He kind of doesn't he have to
get in there somewhere and be the create to really be God. And again, it's a relationship in a lot
of people say you can just define it different ways. But to me, that sense of God, the awe,
the wonder, the thing that will make me fall on my knees, right? So you can say it's a metaphor and
analogy. But at some point, something's got to be pointing to an actual nature of the God,
I was supposed to actually believe in now where I where I do give them the sort of metaphorical
thing is I always say, I don't think people in the ancient times were that stupid. Like I don't
think they were reading those stories as I don't think they expected them to be history books,
or science textbook, I think we're totally misreading them. Now, I don't know if that means
they were total like, Oh, this is supposed to be a myth. And everybody knows this is a myth,
or this is just a narrative. And everybody knows we don't have the scientific, we don't have the
knowledge to really fill it in. You know, that part I don't, I won't, I won't pretend to know.
But I do often think people of that time are spoken about almost too simply. Like I don't,
you know, I think it's, I think it's crazier now to, I don't think they thought it was six
days then either, right? I just, I don't know. That's just me. Yeah, I don't know. I, we might
have a disagreement here, but either way, I mean, what do you think they were just,
do you think they were taking it like very literally? I, it depends because the authors
themselves, like, I can't get into their minds and think, are they writing something that they
literally believe literally happened if they're creating the narrative, right? But like, if we
look at Paul, let's just go ahead in time, right? And look at Paul, Paul is reading Genesis. We
know this because he's like using Adam as references and stuff. And he, he acts like Adam is the first
man, like the first human period in all in Adam died, all in Christ. So he uses his theology,
like he believes that it is literal and even that creation itself is groaning. Like he's
thinking of the beginning and the end and he's on the cusp of the end. So I think he's thinking
literal, but does that mean everyone did? No, I just think that. Right. And I'm with you. That
definitely seemed like it's literal. And I guess what I'm wondering is, I just feel like, at least
the way we talk, like the Old Testament, like you would have thought that they related, there
would have been stories around, right? If this came from other creation, there would have been
other, it's not, it would not like this would have been the first time people heard a story of
where everything came from or how do we get here, where we're going. And so I just think
there's some level at which they, they expected people to tell stories and that story telling
was kind of how they shared their understanding. The problem is this, Jay, this is the problem,
in my opinion, is we live in a very sophisticated time in which we know how to dichotomize ideas in
our brain and separate what is true history, what isn't true history. I think if you go far enough
back, not only are most of them not literate, which means they don't use the same kind of
dichotomizing of ideas or like separating, they kind of take the world in and it's hard to describe.
The best way I could put it is someone said, we have the same hardware we've had for a couple
hundred thousand years, as far as the same hardware functions. But the software, when we went from
oral peoples to writing and how our software functioned within that hardware that we have,
it's hard to understand because I imagine that they did believe these things were true and
there's life that comes into the stories and stuff. So I don't know. I mean, I just, I don't
know if we're able to see how they saw things then because we think differently today. Even
the way they wrote history, they weren't writing like Bob went down on Wednesday, he vomited,
three fluid ounces of fluid. No, they're like Bob floated on three turtles and the the the crows
picked him up and flew them across. What? That didn't happen. Yeah, it's a totally different
paradigm. Yeah, man. And it's, I know we want to move on to the next question, but it creeps me
out a little bit that we venerate it. Like I find that a little bit weird, right, to be trying to
spend this much time picking apart the, you know, ancient minds. Like, yeah, it's weird. It's weird.
I'm a weirdo, by the way. Just so you, I didn't know if I told you that when we started.
Oh, we're all into it. We're all into it. Blark, thank you again for the support. I really appreciate
that. You beat me to it with your point about death, Derek. If I was a Christian, my only problem
with evolution would be the role of predation in its process. Deep time, specification, or sorry,
specification would be the least of my worries. Yep, would be the least of my ways. So it's,
it's the death. And my biology teacher said back when he was teaching me, and I remember him saying
that like 99% of life when extinct, and I can't remember, he said that Siberia used to be like,
like a tropical, whereas now it's like iced over and he said we have 99% of life that has ever
existed on this planet has gone extinct is what he said some number. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, that's it.
I am the God of life and I don't death is not good. And definitely, definitely not. And then, and,
and, you know, I've heard somebody did a video. I can't think of his name, but he did a great video
on animal suffering that really got me thinking about this. I mean, I was already an atheist by
this time. But yeah, I think there's something there to the whole predation there, especially
if you think of animal suffering. And that also got me with the flood. Like, oh,
Bloc, you and Derek and Jay Bundy and none believe remain me so mad. I'm often all the animals.
All the trees. I was always like, man, that's weird. That's weird. There's so many things that
float around there that we're trying to make. Oh, there's an ice age with the melting and there's
a massive flood. The sea level question. Yeah. What do you think about the Christians who are in
this? So somebody wonder bucket. No, wait, somebody said that they're Christian.
Jay G said, not sure why Christians just get of evolution. I'm a Christian and doesn't move the
needle for me one bit. Like I was a Christian and I believe in evolution. But now when I look back,
I'm like, no, it should move the needle. Yeah, you should be asking some hard questions. It is very
hard. I don't understand how it wouldn't somehow impact other than you're moving stuff around in
your brain or you were taught as a use some tradition. Like I've heard people go, well,
I'm not even a believer anymore, but why don't you go to your church anymore? They say this stuff to
me like, why aren't you just going in? You know, it's like, it's just a practice that I do. Even
if I don't believe it's true, I go and I eat the cookie and I drink the wine and I hear the
priests say this and it's just like, and then they go and they leave and like, why would you
as a non-believer not do that even though it's just tradition? Why don't you keep the tradition
and go and do these things? The vice versa, you kind of wonder if like, I just don't get how this
wouldn't move the needle unless you don't care if this is mythology. So Benjamin said, social
identity, that's why they don't move the needle. I think so. I think that's it. And I was just
thinking about this. Do you feel like, I feel like infallibility is really bad and I feel like most
people in discussion, especially Christian apologists, don't realize that. Like when you
argue yourself into a point that no one can do anything about, that's not a good thing. That's
a very bad thing. And I feel like we deal with now, the social identity thing, it becomes infallible
Christianity. This is kind of what I was getting at earlier with my mom. I feel bad now for the
softer kind of Christians because there's really almost no way for that to not be true.
Well, science is good to go. Oh, well, maybe it was old Earth, maybe it was young Earth.
Or just trying. I don't really know. Well, what about people who are non-believers? Well,
if you're a good person, God will take you in. What if you're a Muslim? Well, he knows that,
you know, it's like, and there's nothing that they're standing on firm enough
that you can say, okay, boom, now we get rid of that and you're ready to move. It's like,
they're not going to move because they're attached to the identity
to them that has to stay firmly in place. Or it gives them comfort and
gives them comfort or something. Or with the fact that they don't, I don't, it's not us. That's the
problem. I think the problem is you and me. Yeah, we don't understand. We don't understand.
Somebody else's brain. It's somebody else's brain. Yeah, because I mean, I'm reading the text. I'm
going, I can't believe that in the need this text. I could, I could believe that without this
story. I could just, if I wanted to, but like, I wouldn't look at my Bible and try to reconcile
that belief to it. It would be a whole different framework. Another thing we didn't touch on that
we should touch on is just the word animal. For whatever reason, like you said, it's not being
in that special category, recognizing that we are animals. I think that's it. And I also think that
goes a long way to undermine sin. If we really are animal nature, then you realize, you know,
I'm no weirder for, you know, enjoying some adult private time than my dog is for, you know,
humping a fire hyphen or whatever, you know, having a really reconcile your own animal nature. I
think, because I think that that's one of the things, that's one of the costs of Christianity
that we don't talk about. You sometimes say your Christianity doesn't bother me if you're not,
you know, on some jihad or you're not bothering me or voting against my reproductive rights and
stuff like that. But what about just not feeling okay with your own human nature, your own sexual
urges, your maybe it's your diet, the things you want to do with your life and just constantly
being told that everything you feel and desire that you can't help but feel and desire is actually
a sin. I mean, that's just to me, it's a really psychologically damaging set of beliefs, especially
when you feel like a person's hanging on to it and you can't find a way to even, you know,
try to pry him away from it. But dude, you said something just now that is so important to me,
and it's exactly what I said the other day when I did my live stream and I'm going to be doing a
presentation at a conference that's coming up sometime this year, GCRR, and I want to do some
science and talk about illusions and Plato and all this stuff like Plato's Cave and analogize
this stuff. But it's the self-destructive nature of self. It is not I that lives, but Christ that
lives in me. If there's any good, it's not me, it's Christ. Yes. And if you take this serious, the text
and the tradition, then you're going to end up in a situation where I would find that the ideology
is self-destructive and extremely humiliating to self because that if you find your life, Jesus
says, I did not come to bring peace. I came to bring a sword. Now, he's not talking about a
literal sword, but he's there to divide mother from father, sister from brother, the whole nine,
right? And then he says, to take up your cross and follow him, I might get this backwards, but he
says before or after this phrase that he says, if you find your life, you will lose it. But if you
lose your life, you will find it. Take up your cross and follow me. Now, what did Jesus do?
He carried the cross to death. The lifestyle of going to martyrdom is the teaching.
Absolutely. And so that's what I mean about the bigger picture. What's the bigger picture?
That's the bigger picture. That's the that's the grander point. Right. You know, sacrifice your
humanity for, you know, something we can't demonstrate to be an entity. It's, but yeah,
it's really sad. And actually just to touch on that, I think those of us that can and feel the
strength to, I actually, my new thing is I'm trying to encourage people to come out.
I'm trying to encourage people to talk to their friends, talk to their family,
and maybe even encourage them to de-convert. I know a lot of
counter-apologists stay away from that. They say, you know, don't talk to your friends,
don't talk to your family. But I think that number one, that's the spirit of influence we have.
Or at least get them comfortable with who you are. Absolutely. Like my mom does not want to
talk about Jesus when I'm around. Yeah, yeah. You know, but it, I'm going to be honest,
and I'm going to be, but I also don't have the intention of trying to wreck everything she holds
on to. No, no, no, no. But I do want to, I do, I can't help this. This is me and you can call it
a flaw or a good thing. And the audience might have a split opinion on this. You might have a
certain opinion on this. I do want to get rid of the idea of hell for my mom, because this mythology
eats her alive when she thinks about it, when she thinks about it. Yeah. When I bring it up,
she goes, Derek, as long as I'm going to heaven, I'll be okay. She always worries about, am I going
to heaven? Am I going to heaven? Am I going to heaven? Am I going to heaven? Am I going to heaven?
And I'm like, I used to tell her as a Christian, mom, yes, of course you're going to heaven,
like without a doubt. Then became a Calvinist and was like, I think you're going to heaven,
because I think that God's spirit dwells in you. And there's, I don't know as long as you persevere
to the end. I would say you've confessed with your mouth and you believe. But now I'm like, mom,
hell is a myth. I don't try to go into heaven. She likes to think about happy after this.
I'm like, hell is a myth. Hell is not real. You need to cut out worrying about a place called hell.
Like it is mythology. It is invented. My uncle committed suicide. And I think my grandparents
have spent my entire life worried about that. And I feel like while everybody is so walking on
eggshells around them, because they don't want to challenge their faith, they're not seeing all
the ways that their faith is probably hurting them. And the only thing I would say to our audiences,
of course, you'll play it differently with everybody. You'll know if a person is suffering
because they're so anxious about hell, or if it's just a case where you just think they're
better off not thinking things that aren't true anymore. But I always want to say be encouraged
that you're a myth vision watcher, because that means that you've had the graduate seminar with
Bart Ehrman and Kit Davis and Josh Bowen and Richard Carrier. So if you're not ready to
have the conversation, who is bingo? Let's get through these. And then I got to go like
handle. So we have a special thing going on tonight. And I'm going to spend the time of the
fam. I'm so thankful you came on here, by the way. I'm gonna be lighting. You already know we
got to do this again. Of course, I'm going to light candles and I got to put them in the bags
right there because we're having a Satanist ritual. I'm just kidding. We're doing like a
neighborhood thing where everyone puts candles in a bag, little sand there. So you're watching a
movie that they did this in yesterday and it goes around the neighborhood and you see everybody's
candles in front. They're about to do that. So I'll be home lighting candles.
I already know you. Candles. Yeah, I know you. Margaret DeVeldin says,
do you think atheists talk enough about death? Do atheists work enough to build a personal
philosophy? Wow. We need it. I think we need to have a philosophy. I would say no to both.
And so the first question, do atheists talk enough? I say no. And myself, I've just been
realizing that now that I'm really identifying this way, I need to start to get comfortable
that because I really think that that's sort of maybe one of the ultimate hooks of religion.
Even when people bring this stuff into your life, like, you're always going to need your grandparents
or someone's always going to be around forever. It's kind of a threat, right? We just need to
learn to cope with death a little bit more productively. And then the building a personal
philosophy we don't do, right? Because all we share is non-belief. But I think you need to start
to identify. That's why I started the church at the Cult of the Flying Man. I wanted to identify
what are some values, science, critical thinking and humanism. So I could put some positive hears
what I believe actually life should look like. The other thing is you got to get some community
when you finally have a personal philosophy and how you want to live your life, you can meet like
minded people. That's why I say to people to go subscribe to you. So whenever I'm not on and
there's too much time on, they're hanging out, they're BSing, you can throw an idea out there,
they'll talk about it. That's right. And then even we're on, we're in Gather, which is like a
virtual office thing. So now even when we're not live, we're watching movies and gaming together
and having birthday parties, all types of fun stuff. So come check us out on a Pocket Locker 86.
Go check them out. Go check them out. In the description, you can go and find his YouTube
channel from there. You can find the rest of his stuff. So and there is a link tree.
One undeniable evidence, the world is not 6,000 years old. Thank you for the super chat and the
question. Aren't their trees older than this? No, mountains. I just think it takes longer.
So one of the things that really predates Darwinism in sort of shifting scientific thinking is
Lyell's gradualism, sort of understanding that because the creationist view of geology was what
we call catastrophism, right? God said, let there be a mountain. That's the catastrophic event. Just
boom, a mountain just pops up, right? We realize, oh no, it's gradualism. You have tectonic plates
shifting, right? And they come. So once you start to understand tectonic plates and how long it takes
to make a mountain, you're good to go. Thank you so much. We got to get through this. Mom just
tried to call me. She's probably like, where are you at? Is it possible? Is it possible? God
believe has rooted in our developmental biology as a result of being helpless infants. I think
certainly the mechanism to depend on the authority figures in your life was a life or death thing,
but there was a MythVision podcast about the sort of what the neurobiology of why we believe,
and it was sort of not just saying we have the best opportunity we've ever had to debunk these
beliefs, but actually to understand why we believe. So absolutely. Thank you so much. I agree. Dr. John
Wathi goes into this. Zachary Lahaki, Pocket Locker 86, how do you best respond to the creationist
chestnut? There are no transitional fossils. They are all transitional fossils. Every fossil's
transition. They are all transitional fossils. Simply put. We're trying to get there. I get it.
Zachary, we're going to have to, I think it'll be good to like get you and this question remind us
to bring that up when we have Erica on. You are halfway between your children and your grandparents
right? So they're all transitional fossils. Seriously, Jay, I love you, man. I really appreciate
your time and the community that you're building, and I hope more people go check you out on the
YouTube. Go show them some love. Hit the subscribe button if you want true salvation from the flying
man. Hit the all button so you get that bell and go hang out. Let's see. I wanted to see at the end
of the show if we got anyone to subscribe. I'll give people 20 more seconds to hit the subscribe
button before we close the door and all burn in the lake of fire. So check out the Patreon.
Help us out. Go support us. I'm kicking butt, taking names. I've got like 50, 60, 70 videos
I still need to edit and put on. That'll be early. That won't be on YouTube for who knows how long.
Derek, we got at least like that 25, baby, because we're over 400. So thank you guys so much and
keep joining. Yeah, we refreshed that, man. You've made, that's a difference. That's
a difference. There you go. So yeah, we'll have the 400 plus. We'll do, I'll take a little break
and we'll do a celebration. We'll do a little 400 sub celebration tonight.
Seriously, everybody's subbing and who knows how many we'll sub after. We'll keep an eye on it and
we will do this again. Any final words from you as we leave? Stay curious. Just keep learning.
Keep learning. Keep growing and find some friends. Find some friends. Well, also, never forget.
We are MythVision.
