Holy moly you do not I'm telling you guys you don't want to miss this one
We talk about the documentary hypothesis. We get lost into the Dead Sea Scrolls
We talk about failed prophecies and how the Old Testament is
Reusing stuff from older places and here we have the New Testament just redoing the same thing Christian apologists are known
For a lot of these defenses that aren't necessary so to speak and so Dr.
Kip Davies destroys the notion that is being
Regurgitated over and over by the Christian Apologist. It's time to take scholarship seriously
Oh
We are
Myth vision welcome back to myth vision podcast. I'm your host Derek Lambert today. We have Kip Davis welcome to the show my friend
Thank you. It's good to be here. So I wanted to stay
Yeah, I wanted to say and you can edit this out afterwards if you want
But you're you're cool little little animation there with them with leviton
from the Old Testament I
Think he would kick your ass
Look man, I'm sorry, but I've I've beat him. Okay, you see it. It's how can you deny?
You witness it on screen, you know, dude. Anyway, I guess that's better evidence than for Yahweh, right?
You dealt with a situation where I want everybody to go right now
Please go down in the description. I ask you guys to
Join this guy's YouTube channel go subscribe to Kip's channel. He has dealt with the documentary hypothesis
He's a PhD student. Can you tell us where your PhD?
PhD student at
I'm not a student. I'm I'm I graduated in 2009
So and I
Oh, yeah, yeah, I
Sorry, I'm Dr. Davis. Yes. No, that's fine
So I did my I did my my PhD studies at the University of Manchester
So, which is not as impressive as as Yale or Harvard but
Okay
It's okay. You could still beat Leviathan. I'm not worried about it. Um, so let's let's talk about Christian apologist
I was a minor version of Christian of a Christian apologist. I was working under a
Guy named Thomas McCuddy at a small little, you know school here in North Carolina and Thomas McCuddy was kind of a disciple of
People in the vein of Ravi Zacharias and guys like that. I'm not saying that they owned any massage parlors
I'm just saying that, you know, they they worked in the same vein. I know that was a bad that was that was definitely
I didn't laugh. I really shouldn't you shouldn't I know it's it's silly
but no, but seriously
These apologists seem to be
Performing confirmation bias on everything that they have to of course defend what's sacred to them and that is the Bible and so
The documentary hypothesis
Especially the renewed versions
Seemed to better make sense of the sources that are in the Old Testament
Development of the Pentateute and whatnot and so I found your channel
I was recommended to it by Camille Gregor and then of course my friend Stephen Nelson and they both like love
Paying attention to the MacPologist the McGrew
McClatchy these are Christian apologists and then of course we see Michael Jones from inspiring philosophy
They're always putting out something to try to get the skeptics to look like they're just
fabricating evidence they don't know what they're talking about and
You dealt with the documentary hypothesis. So I said, please Dr. Davies. Come on. Let's let's let's deal with this
I didn't say Dr. Davies because I didn't know your doctor
But notice how I anachronistically did that that was an anachronism. Anyway, um, what do we have? What's the problem?
Sorry, can you repeat that? Yeah, what is the problem that that is happening right now with Christian apologist and the Pentateute the documentary hypothesis
Okay, so I mean, there's there's lots to there's lots of unpack here. So I'm just gonna go
And I think like for me personally, it's it's in the
the
construction of the Pentateuch in the documentary hypothesis that I really
Started that really started to push
my own personal beliefs as a Christian in
Another direction entirely and I think
for
For apologists and for evangelicals. It's it's a very strong direct challenge
the doctrine of inerrancy and
I that's that's why
It's something that that they feel they the need to
defend against
to attempt to
counter explain
Problematically for them though
the evidence that I hoped I
showed that in particular my last video the evidence is just so
strong and
I mean even in that video
I was like frantically trying to cut it down and still ended up with like an hour of material
And I was just like feeling like I'm just barely
scraping the surface here of everything that I could say
About why scholars find it so compelling and I think something something that
That tends to get lost too you can totally you can totally see even just reading
Like your English translation of the Bible you can see
The sources of work there. I mean, I assume you've gone through this and you've seen it, right?
But what I find is
That it's not as easy to see it as it is when you're looking at the the Hebrew text too
Because English translators will make choices with regards to how they they render certain words or certain phrases
and they're not always consistent in doing so and
so
One of the things I wanted to do in particular in that last video was try and show
That like from a from a perspective of the Hebrew text in particular how there's things that
you don't see in the English that
Show me or show another
Another Hebrew reader that yeah, I mean there's there's really a dramatic difference
between what's happening
in this source
P the priestly source and in this source J the the Yahweh source
When I teach
Old Testament and when I
When any class in in the Old Testament something that I I'm very deliberate
in doing
Is in ensuring that
um
The names for God
Yahweh, Elohim El Shaddai
uh
Are not
Translated into into their English counterparts. It's very important to retain those
when teaching the text when reading the text because as you know
um because of the uh
Uh, there have been extensivities to the name of God it it it sort of
uh
Was inherited by the by the the first English translators and and the reformers who made the choice when
translating the tetragrammaton Yahweh
Decided to render that into English as the Lord
in all caps
So all of our English Bibles wherever it says Yahweh in the text it says the Lord and
Growing up in the church growing up in evangelical
I mean this is this is the sort of thing that I just never I just never paid any attention to and I never noticed
and
You know it just looked like a different way of referring to the same God when it's just not
These are these are I well, I guess I mean yes
It's it's a different way of referring
To the same God in Hebrew
In a sense
But the whole rationale behind that is just completely lost
In uh in our English translations of of the text
So and there is actually like there's there's there's passages in the Hebrew Bible where
um
People will refer to God as Lord
out of night
so
It's it's it's one of those things
Um, I decided this early on you know when I'm teaching classes
I'm just I'm I am going to insist on this when my students write papers. I'm going to insist on this
Identify
God properly as the text identifies him
So either as Yahweh or as L or as Elohim and I find that
That's one of those things where it's it's sort of like a first step in helping you to see
Uh the differences in the sources, but it's one of those things that's just also really easily glossed over
So real quick in the vein of this
Yeah
The documentary hypothesis is what I got one question on that and then of course the names of God seem to be the older way of
Explaining the different sources and it's not the only way even though that may play a role to some degree on
Are we looking at priestly? Are we looking at a deuteronomic? Are we looking at what are we looking at?
um
That seems to be the vein in which the older versions I think of the documentary hypothesis we're going but
My first question and then of course we can lead to this second idea is
Is the documentary hypothesis the main?
um
Hypothesis of explaining the source material
Are across the board consensus from all experts on the Old Testament like if you were to say
This is the theory or if you will hypothesis that everyone without a shadow of it out agrees with they just argue over the minutia detail
Of what is what is the documentary hypothesis it?
Absolutely and it's something that everybody like when you're going through your
um when you're going through your studies
To and training in uh in religious studies or biblical. It's something that everybody has to deal with
Everybody learns it
everybody uh learns the evidence for it and in my experience and I should say like this isn't my this isn't my
area of specialization. I just I really like penitential narrative and
uh lots of apologetic stuff gets gets uh
is
Centered around the documentary hypothesis. So this is something that that interests me
but in my experience and going to conferences and in speaking with academics and reading books and articles it's it's
it's absolutely
entrenched like it is it is a part
of
A current scholarship and it has been for a very long time and like you said
There's lots of dispute about the minutia
Right, um in in the european schools, which is where I was
um, there's lots of uh
There's there's been a movement for for a while to resurrect something similar to
Uh, what we called the the supplementary or sorry the the fragmentary
Hypothesis or the supplementary hypothesis
But all of this stuff still and this is what I think is the important point
um
all of these
Theories and all of the the the the theories that sort of circulate the formation of the pentateuch. There's not one
that says
The penned like like all the books of the pentateuch were written by the same author or even
Each individual book genesis exodus numbers leviticus deuteronomy was written by so
um
I think the important point is that
The overwhelming scholarly consensus is that there are sources in the pentateuch
And that many of the sources are readily identifiable and it absolutely
Destroys any notion that this is something that could have been written by moses
um, and I think moreover it it rather
Destroys the notion that that there was some sort of established text
Prior to the Babylonian exile
Interesting like this this destroys in that inherent infallibility as well. I mean obviously this is going to show
How can you rectify contradictory sources and make them try to be one coherent cohesive narrative?
Um, and you know dr. Price I interview him all the time. He said no
I'm glad it's not in there infallible and we have this because this picture, you know
People want to answer or ask the question why?
You know, why would they put two of these things together that are contradictory and
one speculative
Explanation is well, look they they but they saw multiple traditions as sacred
So they kept multiple traditions. It's it wasn't an issue for the redactor
To put this stuff together like we think today. Oh no, it must make absolute logical sense
The ishmaelites and the midianites could both sell joseph and like, you know, like they didn't think that way
And so maybe that that thinking
Uh, we aren't thinking like they thought and it's important to try and understand why the redactors would do this
What's going on? Oh, totally. What what are these apologists doing? I've heard
Dr. Michael hyzer
I've interviewed him on my channel before on his book demons
And as a skeptic, of course, I don't think he even knew that I was a skeptic when I interviewed him
I just had a really cool amazing dialogue and talked to him about like the biblical nephilim and the giants and how
Yes, these are not humans. They are portrayed as these big
Angelic, if you will are gods
Many Elohim these little little gods and we had this great dialogue, but I found a youtube video where he rejects
The documentary hypothesis and I thought how can a Hebrew scholar like him
And someone who is entrenched in the scholarship are supposed to be
Literally go on air on youtube and say I I totally disagree with this
Without trying to hold on to inerrancy. It's weird. So yeah, I
I I saw that in and that was news to me too. That was a surprise
When I saw that in your in your video about hyzer
um
And I think what it what it comes down to like
When you read when you read some I've got a this is uh
Yeah, this is a this is a fairly popular
um
Textbook used by used in very very conservative schools
Right teaching the Old Testament, right? And what they tend to do is they spend
Spend a lot of time
developing
counter arguments to
the documentary hypothesis
which center on
the uh, the the literary construction or the the literary artistry or the uh,
Lit literary features of the text which would suggest that
That it's a a unified
document and in my experience most of this comes
From the fact that somebody did
Uh at some point in time put these things together and had to make a bunch of decisions
about uh
About what to include and what to I mean because they couldn't they couldn't include everything you brought up the
The the joseph story as a great example where you can see the the the two different sources at work
And not in just the selling of uh, uh, whether it was the ishmaelites who sold
To whom joseph was sold or the midianites. You'll notice in one story
The j
Joseph's father is consistently called jacob in the other story. He's consistently called israel
You know one story is about joseph who has these fantastic dreams of grandeur
The other story is about joseph who has this this, uh, uh technicolor
Garment that his uh, his father gifted to him
so
Both stories are about the jealousy of his brothers, but when you smash them together, it just it becomes like
Like super jealous. It's it so like there's all these all these extra things
There's all this this other stuff within just this one story, uh, which shows that yeah
There's there's two different sources that will work here, but like whoever put them together
had to make some decisions
About how to weave them together. Otherwise, it would have just been
like like a completely
uh, credulous
impossible
Story to tell right
um, it's it's like I like
um, I like looking at what i'm looking at, uh
And trying to to divide the sources a good way to
To to do this or or a profitable area of the text to see this is in genealogies
um, because they tend to be highly formulaic and
As a result, you can you can really see
Very clearly like the different formulas that the different authors are using
uh to construct
their
genealogies
but um
When when there's a combined genealogy like in genesis chapter 10, which is you know a genealogy
It's like two versions of the same genealogy
The editor
Couldn't just repeat everything
He had to kind of pick and choose
So he's like, okay i'm gonna pick
uh bits from this one
and then
bits from this one and kind of
Structure them together so that it still makes some coherent sense
But you know a careful reader
Uh is going to be able to see well
There's one voice here and there's another voice here and they take turns speaking
But and there's and there's kind of like these lynchpin
passages that you'll find in there too where you can see the editor is
um
Maybe struggling a little bit with how to how to sort of stitch
Those seams together
um
But it's it's in these it's in a the places i find where the redactor does some of his to work
These tend to be the places where evangelicals and apologists will point to go. Oh look
You know the text is is beautiful. It's it's there's this uh this literary coherence and you can't
Achieve that if you if you you know pull the pull the text apart
This is something in the video that I responded to of michael jones
um
I'm going to be in the next one. I'm going to be just going through
his argument for internal consistency and and
showing
uh all the problems with it
but
What he does
Fairly consistent one of the things he does fairly consistently is
points to these places in the text where
There's like this narrative
continuity and this and this artist
um
He does he pulls up and he does all this stuff very quickly
I mean you you've seen a bunch of his his stuff and something that he does is he'll just he'll like it's like
He'll throw up all these these arguments right, but they're so fast
And he'll just kind of kind of throw them out there like he spends
I think it's like 10 or 15 seconds in his video where he shows
an image of a of a
a chiastic
structure
that that um
a a scholar
um
Thinks he sees
in the
Entire flood story from genesis 6 all the way through to genesis 9 he just kind of throws this up on the screen
He's like here's a great big chiasm that you know
You can't you know this is impossible if if you you pull the text apart
um
So he depends on these sorts of these sorts of arguments
But when you get right down to it and you actually sit and and go through
The uh the the chiasm that he's he's put up there for those of you who don't know
um a chiasm is a poetic device
where a um a writer
will um
build in
in uh
in opposite pairs
And of of statements or themes lots of times based on the usage of individual words
um, and they'll they'll go in a pattern where they start um, you know statement a then be
then see
and then
See again, then be then a so it's like a reversal, right?
And these are real one kind of chiastic
I mean you've got day one matches day five in some respects j2 and days
Or day one day four day two day five day three day six
And if you look one, yeah, you land
And then you got land animals. So you got one is the sky and then you got birds and then one is the sea and yeah, so
A chirochiasm would have been reversed though, right where day one, uh, it would have been like, uh, like like
um
Day one would have been sky, but then day six would have been sky, right where it goes
so
So these are real um
And you see them like there's there's some some neat ones in the Psalms
usually the ones that that I find convincing are pretty small like restricted to
uh, a few verses
um
I've seen scholarly arguments attempting to do this for like huge chunks of text like the uh, the flood story, right?
So the one that Jones puts up on the screen. It's like it's like 22
opposite pairs of
Thematic statements and some of them when you actually sit down and you look at the text
It's like one of them
is just
Ark
Right, you know is is like ark. It's like the it's it's the ark
But how many times is is the ark actually mentioned throughout the entire
text, right?
You can pick and choose these things. There's ones like there's whole
verses or
Collections of verses that just don't appear in the chiasm. They've been omitted entirely
um
Many of them are just just really really strained and these are the sorts of things that that readers
will oftentimes impose
On a text we see things that that we think are there that the author never even intended to be there
I was reading an article about this recently and and someone
uh suggested that
that uh
these are
Maybe even just a natural way of writing
Where it's it's a way that our brain functions when when we're writing that we're not even conscious of or reading
That we're not even conscious of so it's one of those arguments where
Um, it looks powerful and it looks convincing when you throw it up on the screen like that for 15 seconds
But when you unpack it when you go through it, uh, it falls apart very quickly
So the other thing
That he tended to do in his video of showing
Um internal coherence
You'll notice that
I I think it was like if he had if he had like 15
Uh individual points, I think like 10 of them were restricted genesis 3 and 4
now
Genesis 3 and 4
Were part of the
Uh ongoing narrative
That was being constructed by the yawest
It's the same author
of course there's
Coherence and unity there, but I think it demonstrates
that
Either and and I know that this was a surprise to me too when I was watching your channel you you you said that you saw somewhere that the the jones
Made a statement about not even knowing what the document or hypothesis was
I think that one um, there was a guy and I don't want to say jones
But it doesn't sound like he really knows what it is either because if he did I don't know if he would be so
Then again, I mean, it's like no one is something that you don't want to believe in
So really you're not actually investigating with is there validity to this for real not confirmation bias approach, but uh capturing christianity the cameron
Oh, okay. Yeah for to see. Yeah, and egyptologist david falk who takes him more of a max
Yeah, you want to dip right the the exodus and he said what is the documentary hypothesis and david falk who's not even a
Really he's not even like a biblical hebrus scholar. He's an egyptologist
Yeah, I had to explain to him why he rejects it, but he says look i'm not a
I don't have to accept it because i'm not a hebrus scholar is what he said i'm in egyptology
But really he's also a christian
So he's right. Yeah, let me avoid that documentary hypothesis thing. It sounds like this is the death blow
to
christian harmonization
That no one or not just christian. I mean i'm sure orthodox jews
That practiced this kind of harmonious, uh
You know look at the um rabbis how they have been affected joe bedan wrote this in his book professor joe bedan was saying
Look the rabbis have been trying to figure out this problem for a while
And still keep the text to you know, it's so
in very very creative ways
Yeah, the ishmaelites are in kings. They look like these
They look like the midianites. So technically they're the midianites too or like weird stuff. That's like really oh totally
so
but what you know it's it's um
What i was going to say was that
Those sorts of like if you don't know anything about the documentary hypothesis and somebody show somebody shows you that
Oh, look at this
total
Community that that exists there in genesis three and four
That might sound convincing to someone who doesn't know anything about it and typically what happens is
uh when evangelicals and and
When I was first presented the documentary hypothesis, I remember this is
How it was presented to me and this was kind of my reaction to it. It's presented as
uh such
uh an incredulous
thing it's it's it's it's you know, it's
presented as absurd
In the first place when jones briefly talks about in his video. He does so in the most hack need
Uh way possible to sort of construct this this
Ridiculous straw man like well, you've got these wherever it says ya'll play that's a y'all pay passage and wherever it says elohim
That's a that's an elohim passage and then you have pre-slip stuff and then you have deuteronomy and bang
That's the documentary hypothesis. Oh, that's not it. That is the most
simplistic
ridiculous
Description of the documentary hypothesis that you could possibly make so when people come to the text with this
Like this is what the theory is and they see something that says
wow
Look at the literary artistry between genesis three and four
well
Surely that must that must totally
uh debunk it
so
Yeah, and it and it's something author or whoever this source is is the same thing so that doesn't
Yeah, that that's ridiculous. I get what you're saying
There are large sections too throughout the panitouk where
um, the same author like I think I think j
uh, it uninterrupted
From j runs uninterrupted from genesis two through genesis four then there's there's a genealogy interruption there in genesis five
And then the flood stuff where it's fixed
But then all the way through
to like genesis 12
So there's lots of fertile ground there
to show
Continuity and and unity and artistry, right? I think it's interesting too genesis 12
And and you can tell me genesis 12 and I believe it's genesis 16
You have the same narrative being rehashed about you're going to be a father many nations and the blessing
It's like, why are you saying this again?
Like didn't we hear this in the last before the commercial break in the last, you know, like
It repeats itself. Is that two different sources?
I think so
Um, and I know joe like when when joe betham put his book together
Like he did a really good job
Of what what I really liked was he said the only thing i'm going to count as doublets in my discussion of doublets
Are things that are totally irreconcilable
um
Of course, that's not you know
That doesn't cover all the doublets, but what he was doing was showing look, there's just no possible way that you can
You can reconcile these there's there's a
there's there's a
A disruption in the narrative where
Opposite things happen that can't possibly happen like the the the naming
Of uh, beer shiba is one of these, right?
But the uh, so yeah, I like the genesis genesis 12
Covenant with abram
and the genesis 17 covenant with abraham
um
Are
I think pretty clearly the same event
Uh told by these different sources j and e
um, but then
the redactor
Whoever put them together
Uh had to and was trying to to to build
A consistent narrative had to introduce
this idea that well
This is more of a covenant renewal. So it includes the name change, right?
You're no longer called abram. You're called abraham
For this reason. So, you know, we can we can write that off
And we can and and then the other thing that that the the redactor did was was cleverly very carefully put the stories together in
an order
That all those places where abraham was called abraham are, you know pushed
To the back after this important point in the in the story where the name change happens
So lots of the lots of the doublets you'll find
you know
Either before genesis
You'll you'll find before just the 17 and after genesis 17
um
within genesis at least for this
for this reason
um
And lots of these are ones that that bayden
Didn't include in his in his his book
For this reason because somebody came along and was able to reconcile
Uh them to say, yeah, this is just you know, it just it happened twice and
different enough
Sorry, yeah, no, I said, you know, they're different enough that oh, wow sure
And the one that I you can catch that and
Well, not just you but like other scholars that they're careful. They're gonna consider that and go, hmm
I find that interesting that
Yes, the redactors trying to mend
Some stuff. He's not like just trying to throw hodgepodge. I'll just slap it again
He is trying to and I say he because we know no female is redacting these things. Um
Yeah, they're combining this stuff to some degree to try and rec reconcile the different sources at the same time. It's like
There's some stuff that you can't quite fix. I mean look at genesis 38
I think it's so funny this story about juda comes out of nowhere
And he sleeps with his daughter and all it's like
What is this doing this now to a commercial break now? Here's why you want to wear a condom. I mean like it's like
You know, you know, that's an interesting story that one
I'm gonna go on a little bit of a tangent here. Well, I've taught this
What I've what I've taught intro to the old test. So I've actually I've actually pointed
To that story
Um, it's part of a discussion about royal propaganda
I don't know if you're familiar with this. Are you?
No, okay, so
um, take a look at the story
of the of uh, of tamar
uh, and juda
in uh, in genesis 38 and then take a look at
um
at the the Davidic cycle
What's called the
What what are commonly called?
like the ascension narratives
in
I think it's second Samuel
um
And it's the story essentially of of david sons, you know first there's uh, there's absalom
who uh, who who
tries to uh tries to to take the throne and then there's um
um
Oh, is it adam adam naja who rapes his sister the sister's name who's tamar?
Um
It's uh, but I I don't I don't have it before me
But I I've done this before where and I've I read a paper about this a number of years ago
Where somebody made a pretty compelling case that this story from genesis 38 was like uh was like a
It was like a critique
Of the royal family because of all this nonsense that was taking place
with uh with david sons
You know and there's uh, there's a there's a clear correlation between the names. You've got the same victim
You know tamar appears in each one
um juda goes up
with his friend
um
Who's called I I believe he's called hyodam
and
uh, the
The uh, the strongest alliance that david and then solomon had was with
uh, the tyrians whose king was hyodam and um
The uh, the the name of the uh
The first of juda's sons who um
Um
Who failed to um
Take up his his duties and and impregnate um
Uh tamar his name is shala and in hebrew that looks a lot like uh, solomon
shalom
So you know there's there's a name correspondence that runs throughout the story and it's a neat way of saying, you know
Maybe this is a story that was told kind of tongue-in-cheek
About what was going on in the palace
And you know was passed down over generations and then whoever was putting this stuff together needed. Well, why what do I do with this?
I don't
Just throw it in here
because it seems to
It seems to fit
Temporally, I don't know
So maybe they didn't want to get rid of it. Maybe they wanted to keep it and they don't want to get rid of anything
Right and this is an interesting note
I want to make a jab at some people that I know real quick
These aren't the fundamentalist christians that are trying to harmonize the bible
Continuously without with the rejection of the documentary hypothesis, but there is a group of people. I will leave unnamed
um, ultimately they think
That genesis prior to the giving of the law on mount sinai is really a secret code
The whole thing is a secret code for later israel's history after the exile now. It's clever because
Sure, there's anachronisms sure like even in this narrative. Let's suppose what you just said is actually the case
Then there maybe is an anachronism
Uh narrative that's taking place in the genesis story. We know that for example with the tower of babel
If this is a ziggurat, which it may be
We have babelon on the scene. Okay, so we're probably in the babelonian exile when this genesis narrative is at least taking place
At least then or after that and I say that to say
they propose the whole thing is just like
Really a secret code for later israel's history
Whereas I said isn't it more plausible that it is narrative. It's playing a narrative of origins
You know the creation
pre anti diluvian stuff like it's really
Telling you a story not suggesting it's historical
But that it's telling you a story probably borrowing from other literary motifs the mess of itamian flood myths
Who knows to create and concoct a narrative a pre
diluvian
narrative all the way down to how god chose them among all the nations of the earth and
These guys won't allow genesis to be cosmological. They don't because they have these other presuppositions
They think that um, sure no non israelite could ever play a role in the narrative
I mean I could go on and on they literally go so far as to suggest that the gentiles in the new testament are israelites
They cannot allow an outsider or a non israelite to be part of the narrative
They're part of what's called two house theology. So anyway, uh, that's a new one. I was yeah
I didn't I was unaware of these guys
Yeah, they're they avoid it
I can do that seems
Yeah, wow
so, but that's yeah, that's and that yeah, it's uh
For a lot, I mean the bible the bible kind of invites this sort of stuff too, right?
Like this is and we're conditioned to read it and in
In a way, sorry, you can probably hear my dog
Barking like crazy in the background. Yeah, no, you're so my wife's a cheer for the dog
My wife's a dog trainer. So we usually have like four or five here in the house
And and now my alexa is also joining the conversation
Let me let me mute alexa there we go for in order to
In order to deal with it and this is I mean, this is
Something that I'm just I'm tired of bad apologetics
Right. It's really it's been something that for for a long time
I have been
Just really really frustrated by
Um, I taught at uh, I taught at a christian university for a number of years
Um, when I was doing my phd. I had uh
I had like a like a a position as a as a teaching assistant working with an apologist
Teaching a teaching course teaching courses in world view and he had like a special seminar set up
for like the best and the brightest of his students
And this is something that I found myself deal with on a regular basis. This is a
This is a phd
theologian
Working at a university
who is
teaching
undergraduate students
all the way up to uh
To their fourth year
Really bad apologetics that don't look much different than what you see on youtube
right
You know and and there were a few points where I mean it just it drove me so crazy. I felt like
I've got to say something. I've got uh, I've got to challenge him in on on this point. I remember
uh in one session he suggested that
um
that uh
Hellenistic philosophy
Is something that developed
after
Uh or or or you know developed completely outside
Of the biblical world and that's something we should totally reject
And it's been imposed after the fact
On the biblical text and I'm going that's just that is just patently false
I mean you could see
Hellenistic influences in the bible and he says well, there's some of it in the new test. I'm like, no
You could see it
In the book of daniel
You could see it in in
Aspects of the book of proverbs. You can see it in in ecclesiastes. I'm like, it's all over the place in there
And uh in another class like for for a paper in a in a a senior seminar. He wanted
He wanted his students to read
Uh a paper by steven meyer from the discovery institute about intelligent design
And I'm like, why are you?
Why are you propagating this nonsense when in the building next to us the biology department is teaching
evolution
like
It just so that's my little rant about how frustrated I have been for a very long time
With bad apologetics and my message to apologists is this your arguments don't work
and
If you want to continue in this vein, you need to come up with some better more convincing arguments that deal
with real questions
that people have
about christianity and
From from my perspective about the biblical text
because something that bad apologetics doesn't just
um
Ignore the issues with the biblical text one of the things that it does I think is really robs it
Of what's awesome about so much of the biblical text. There's so much stuff in there that is so cool
And you're going to miss it
If you're so focused on trying to keep this house of cards together
Um in in an effort to to propagate this this this false idea of the unity of the text
So
Just stop just stop it
Well said, I think that when we approach this as some magical book
You're right. We're gonna miss the human side. I think there's a lot more wonder and beauty in the human side of the bible
Then the magical side trying to act like it's this purely you know what I mean?
Yeah, you know
One of the things like one of the big differences between
um
the j author the yawist and
In particular the author of p the priestly author is their perspective of who god is
And how he interacts with people and you can see this I did this in my uh in my evidence video
I took a look at the uh the story of um, abraham
And hagar the the doblet's the one written by j the other one written by by p
Um that appear in genesis six. I think it's genesis
16 and genesis
26 I might be wrong there about the the chapters, but one of the things that's really interesting in that story is like
hagar, uh sarah became jealous because jealous of hagar
um, and
In the one story she tells abraham to get rid of her and her son ishmael and the other story hagar's still pregnant and
abraham is super callous and he's like i don't care do whatever you want with her because you're mad about her
And so she treats her really poorly
So much so that hagar runs away
right um, and she's she ends up in the in the wilderness
And in the one and in both stories she has an encounter with god
But what's really interesting is in the j account when you read it it sounds like
God was what or it says the angel of yahweh
Encountered her at this well
In such a way that if you're kind of picturing it you can see him just kind of strolling along
You know he's walking there and oh here's hagar
Let's have a conversation a face-to-face conversation with hagar about what's going on
This is very typical of j
God just kind of walks around among people
um, he has he has face-to-face interactions with people
As an ordinary human being would
Get to the peace story. She doesn't encounter anybody at the well
um, she's she's in the desert, um
And and well is actually that the spring is revealed to her
by god
But the angel of god
doesn't
Come up and have a conversation with her. He speaks to her out of the sky
like this is a fundamentally different
perspective who god is and how he interacts with people
You know, you see it in the creation story the p creation story
God just speaks everything into existence
In the j creation story, he gets down in the dirt and he plants a garden
Right
He he literally says he molds
The people and the animals out of clay
He does, you know invasive psychosurgery
On the man by pulling the rib out and shapes it it says it builds
The the Hebrew word is he builds
A woman out of this rib
And then later in the story. He's walking around
in the garden
Yeah, and you know, and he has to he has to go, you know, where are you? I don't know where you are
He's he's got no he's the god the the the whole perspective of who god is is
totally different and if you don't if you don't
Catch this you're gonna you're gonna miss a lot of really important stuff that's there within the text
This is so awesome because this cuts through the heart of these
Positions that have come up these denominations
Calvinism and Arminianism and open theism and trying to rectify like does god know the future?
Does god is that an anthropomorphism like this, you know, when you know these sources
It cuts all that it undermines every single one of these ridiculous
Like I have the answer of understanding how god works and the big picture of the the whole canon
No, you don't you don't know what you're talking about. I used to be a Calvinist before that
I was an Arminian type Christian
And uh, I was wrong on both ends like just trying to get my picture
It you know, but Derek the other thing this does
Is this provides an argument to all of these people?
Because
There's a if there's a there's a
text in scripture
From which you can build a position about just about anything
Yep, and the you know the the
Inco, uh, yeah the what what I I like to call the dispute or the ongoing dialogue between the various voices within the text
um
This is what this is what what prompts people to
Take strong positions these things because you can make just as compelling a case
For arminianism from the text as you can for Calvinism from the text that I don't know
If you've ever watched any of these
These arminian versus Calvinism debates
On live or on youtube, but they're absolutely idiotic
For this reason because the Calvinist stands up it goes
You know, here's all the scripture about why Calvinism is true
The arminian gets up here's all the scripture that says well my arminian is mister
What do you do with that? Like
You just end up talking past each other I I really like um
something that that I
Greatly appreciate about the rabbis
Is that they had they had a strong sense of this?
In their own text they saw that yeah, there's there's different voices at work
and we're not gonna we're not going to to
Mute any of them because they're all in there, but uh
We're also not going to ever answer some of these questions. So when you read rabbinic dialogues in in uh
The talmud
They're just they're so open-ended. They just kind of you know go in three different directions and never resolve anything
I think I saw the big kind of debate discussion with dr. Christine Hayes
um with an actual rabbinic jew
On the talmud and what we should do and the jew's response was look
This is for about practical living pragmatic approach to the world around us
And we're not going to answer the win why where because then you're actually taking away from the pragmatic and she said i'm sorry
But I feel like I have a religious experience
Just from discovering the win the where the why did they say this like for her?
It's like you and me like the new religious experience that we have and I use that term
Not meaning it in the literal sense. It's like christians go. I had a warm and fuzzy
Well when I find out god was a man walking around and then I find out he's a voice up here
That's like oh, I just got that like whoa, you know what I'm talking about. It's like a fuzzy. Totally. Yeah
Yeah, I like I like those fuzzy feelings too. Those are great
so but yeah, I mean
the bible
Is super complex
And it's loaded with all sorts of different voices and different perspectives
And the absolute wrong thing to do is is to attempt to harmonize these
As opposed to trying to understand where these people were coming from
and why
they
They thought the way they did why they they took the positions they did who they were who they were speaking against
You know one of the things I did my
my phd
uh working with
uh the book Jeremiah
And with some of the nixie scrolls that the very provide a very very interesting
um
Interpretation on Jeremiah the man
Um, and so the text attributed to him
Something that I think is really neat like in
Jeremiah chapter four
He actually quotes
Um from it's pretty obvious that he's he's drawing from the genesis one creation account
So we know he knew this text and that's this is one of the ways where I think where I'm you know, we could be pretty confident
that
he
was
Post-exilic or at least this this text of p was not post-exilic. Maybe maybe
parts of it
Were but certainly a kernel in there
Um, that's Jeremiah
You're dating now and that's complicating a lot of people don't really like to date
But your suggestion is prior to the exile
P something of peace floating around
I'll just say something of the creation story is floating around
um because Jeremiah Jeremiah knows it he he and
He he he alludes to it. It's not a direct quotation, but it's neat what he does
actually, let me see if I can
Just pull it up here. It's in Jeremiah chapter four
And this is something so this is one of the things that that michael jones in his video actually draws from
To say Genesis is super ancient because Jeremiah knows Genesis what Jeremiah is doing
Here in in Jeremiah chapter four. He's actually witnessing
the uh
The encroaching Babylonians
on the city of Jerusalem
um and people are freaking out
because you know
the army
of the most powerful empire in the world
has surrounded your city
and
They're going to destroy it
um
And in his anguish he's Jeremiah's basically telling people this is awful and this is your fault
According to god
um
and
This is what's going to happen to and at one point starting in um
Well, let's start in verse 21 chapter 4 21 and this is the uh
Uh jew's publication society translation i'm reading from here
How long must I see standards and hear the blame the blare of horns for my people are stupid
They give me no heed. They are foolish children. They're not intelligent. They are clever at doing wrong
But unable to do right
Then he says starting in verse 23. I look at the earth
It is unformed and void at the skies
And their light is gone. I look at the mountains. They are quaking and the hills are rocking. I look
No man is left
And all the birds of the sky have fled. I look at the farm
The farmland is a desert and all the towns are in ruin because of Yahweh because of his
blazing anger
So you can hear in there that Jeremiah
Is actually he's pointing to
Like the order of creation as it's presented in genesis one the earth is formless and void
Then there's light. There's earth. There's birds in the heavens
And he's turning this on its head in such a way that it's like an uncreation
This event with the Babylonians, you know
Coming in on Jerusalem for him and for the people. This was like the end of the world
It was like a total undoing of creation
But an interesting question is raised here about his usage of this text
Because what we know about Jeremiah Jeremiah
Uh was probably a Levite
Right, which means that he comes from a different priestly group than those who who are associated
With the p creation account with the priestly material and the Pentateuch
And perhaps hostile
To the there's there's some there's some tension between these two priestly groups
priestly polemics in the bible and then in the second temple period is
phenomenally interesting
I'm just gonna say that
but there's
possibly is
one one of the interesting questions to pose of this
of his his illusion to this creation story is
Is this a polemic at work here?
Is he turning the creation story on its head?
In part also the sort of ridicule
or point to
um the problems with
The ironic priests the the bene acharon the sons of Aaron
Who are part of this other priestly group?
For me, it's a very interesting question. And we see Jeremiah do something like this
Elsewhere in the text where he will
um, he'll take a section he'll take a selection of scripture
and kind of
um
Turn it on its head ironically
There's a way to the new testament does that with the old test
Or lots of sources that it's drawing from it. It kind of flips things to mean its own give its own context
But something interesting. I was oh, yeah, if he's quoting genesis one
From what I was told that maybe you can dispel this for me. This is just an interesting thought experiment
Genesis one
seems to tie in with genesis six
In that it sounds very flood narrative-like. And so here you have a potential destruction
of
You know god's about to do some judgment here. I wonder if Jeremiah is trying to draw from
Oh, yeah, that kind of source, you know
totally totally
And I mean in his mind in the mind of the of
In my estimation in the mind of the people who are living in the city of Jerusalem at the time this was happening
This is what it was and in their minds. This was
the the total annihilation
of
Of the of the world it was coming to an end
And with how how seriously with how with how much
value
Large segments of the Jewish population sat on the Jerusalem temple and on its importance and its entire significance
Once the Babylonians started to to take this building apart and take all the all the valuables out of it
What do they start to think at this point?
The end of the world
Like it is it is the end
The prophecies have failed
the kingdom
The kingdom that the the the dynasty the the yawways dynasty that he set up for eternity
Has come
To an end
Have you what does that do to a person? That's a great point. Have you heard of that book when prophecy failed?
Yeah, I haven't read that yet. Oh, bro. I got it in my room. I'm
I'd be honest. It's a little dry, but it's super educational and it's all about the Old Testament prophetic
situations and you're nailing the coffin shut right here
Because it's like the Millerite movement the end is about to happen in 1844 and sure enough when it didn't happen
Two things happened one group said we got the date wrong were were mistaken somehow the other side said it did happen in some spiritual sense
so
part of me wonders if this failure
Constantly prophets come back new texts are approaching redactors probably add in there and an angel of the lord said
It will be 70 years in fact
When you will be brought back and then and then it was like well not 70 years daniel says 70 times seven or 70 weeks
It's like bro. Really? Oh, yeah. I love this man. I love this
And you know and that's exactly so
What happened as a result of that?
the Torah
essentially
Happened as a result of that. I mean it's it's
And then early Judaism happened as a result of that where
um
like you said
so many ongoing questions about about
About dating or about things that were supposed to take place
It's interesting. Actually the the 70 years prophecy from Jeremiah is something that I think
um
Was misunderstood from the beginning. Jeremiah is not his prophecy. There is not
one of
um
Where he set his focus on the expectation of return
As I read it what he's he's writing. So it takes place within a letter
That he has sent
To the exiles who are already in Babylon, right?
And what is he on that letter?
he says
relax
plant your fields
Live your lives
Because you're going to be there for a while
Um, you're going to be there for like 70 years
So I don't think this is Jeremiah saying
Don't worry. It's coming to an end. This is Jeremiah saying no man
You're stuck there for a while
um, but because of the way
that
uh interpreters
Because of the because of the way biblical language works because of the way
um
People inherited these texts and the value that they imbued to them and how they figured you needed to read them
This becomes
Something else entirely, right? Even for them, right?
Exactly. Did you read it yet? Okay. Okay
Totally totally and and what Daniel is doing is is or you know, what what uh,
What the Hasmoneans
in uh
Once in the 160s they're doing with Daniel
Is saying well, we've got this
We've got this prophecy. It wasn't really even a prophecy. It was you know, we've got this
This return prophecy and yes that happened the the jews came back even though it wasn't actually 70 years
But who's counting?
You know and yes, they rebuilt the temple, but why are why is there so much?
Why is there so much crap?
Still going on and why are you know, why?
Why
Antiochus the fourth who came in and and desecrated the temple there's all these other questions
the demand answers
And as a result you've got to impose a whole new
Way of understanding the 70 years
You develop a whole new calendar as a result. It becomes a point of uh of divine
uh revelation the angel
Gabriel comes and basically tells Daniel how to interpret the text and what's really cool is in the Dead Sea Scrolls
this
490 years
Is something that they they go
Steps further with the it shows up in in several texts and there's different ways of organizing the 490 years
There's different ways of counting them from from start to finish
um
It it just it it it explodes
into this this whole
New interpretive movement on on what to do with a lot of this stuff
One of the things that i've i've already decided i'm going to do
In the future when i'm finished with the documentary hypothesis videos
Is i'm i'm gonna do a whole bunch of Dead Sea Scrolls videos
But um one of the things that i'm going to do is is focus on Daniel
because what i've discovered is
The Dead Sea Scrolls are fertile ground like apologists
Love the Dead Sea Scrolls
Because they're super old right and because they they they preserve our oldest copies of scriptures
So, you know, they show they they they make some sort of statements
About the the reliability of no scripture and they love the fact that there's copies of the book of daniel
In the Dead Sea Scrolls because it shows that people were taking this stuff seriously
The book of daniel really early like um, I think our oldest copy of the book of daniel leads to
Like the beginning of the first century bc, which would have been within decades after
um
Parts of daniel were written
so
This apologists love this stuff
But what gets ignored is the nature of how the the texts of daniel appear in the Dead Sea Scrolls
um
Some of them are complete the complete ones are a little bit later
But some of them
Not necessarily. I mean, maybe they were only just chunks
um
I don't know if you're familiar with the the scholarly ideas about how daniel developed, but there's there's a whole bunch of
individual
Chunks of literature that was put together over a longer period of time, right?
um, right
What's really interesting is is in the Dead Sea Scrolls. We don't just have daniel. We have all this other
um really intriguing
Aramaic literature
featuring daniel
Or people who look a lot like daniel doing things that daniel did, right, but
And and it's all like it's it's a treasure trove
all about the the historical development of the book of daniel which
emphatically shows
That no there's no way a complete book of daniel was written before the Persian period
So 100 and that dating annihilates
the value of this being prophetic and then the new testament just
What it does for me once you see this is it like
Like a tidal wave on the whole whoever used this after
It it falls into the ignorant
Into the ignorant category and I don't mean that derogatorily
I mean that like like when the book of revelation is using this
We know felled and not really written when it says it's supposedly written text
What's that do with your understanding of things in the new testament?
It should cause you to go. Oh my goodness. There's a problem
I was going to show you something here real quick that you you heard for 90 years
I actually made this a while back after reading john j collins the
apocalyptic imagination
And here he quotes a great book by the way
For real man that was over my head in many ways
But one qp have a have a cook seven six through thirteen for there is yet a vision coming
Anyway in this particular it's using the 490 years
This is this passage implies that the end is delayed and had not come
When initially expected about 40 years after the death of the teacher
And I asked him when he thought the who the teacher was he said
I'm not going to even guess because no one knows who the teacher of righteousness was in this
there might have been many teachers of righteousness for all we know and
You know, that's just kind of a mystery. They didn't use names, but
They keep rehashing this and daniel expected it to happen in his day
Just like jeremiah expected it to happen in his day. Just like the new testament is expected and it just keeps going
I often thought that there is a
There is a subconscious if you're if you're part of a prophetic movement
So maybe it's less so now, but I think certainly in antiquity
um
And this is just just the way that i'm creating things i've often wondered
About who these people were and and how they thought and and went about doing their
The the the stuff that they do and i've often wondered if
one of the reasons for using
The symbolism and couching all your stuff in this
in this vague
vague language and um using big round numbers or or target
uh
Target dates that can be um, I guess
reorganized
Is this is this
subconsciously
part of the recognition
that
the way in which
This is going to work as if it could be attached loosely
to
Whatever in the future. I've often wondered if part of
Totally yeah, like
And and you know something I mentioned this in in my uh in my third video, but there's something something that that is
is really
I guess that was the fourth video. It was the introduction to the documentary hypothesis reading something that I I key on
Which I think is really important when it comes
to reading
Uh, the bible and reading
How how biblical authors used the bible and read
The bible uh is to focus on what what james kugel
Uh called the four assumptions
of uh, biblical interpretation
and it helps to explain why
So much of the weird shit happens in the new testament that we see like
Matthew what the hell is he doing in the in in uh
Uh the infancy narratives in Matthew. He's like pulling
All these texts of of scripture out and saying, you know, this is the fulfillment of prophecy
This is fulfilled in Jesus. This is what it said
in in the uh in the scriptures and when you sit down and you you look
At the texts themselves
As a moderator you go
I mean it doesn't really say that or at least those are the words but has nothing
to do with
With who jesus was like the you know the isaia chapter nine prophecy
That's
it
When when that was written
um
It had to do with uh with knowing
um
knowing the time frame
of when
syria
Was going to uh
Was going to invade right
Like it has absolutely nothing at all to do with the messiah
But this is how and this is something that that
uh
Wasn't invented by the new testament authors
This is an inherited thing like this is this is a
This is the matrix in which
The the jews operated and and we see this
throughout the dead sea scrolls where
Every single text if it's scripture
Whatever that is and there's
lively debates
In my circles about
What scripture was how ancient authors understood it how they defined it what they include within it
What they did with it
but
one of the things
that
They came to understand scripture to be like almost universally
Was that it was a collection of all this cryptic
um
cryptic coded messages for the future
And not just the obvious stuff, but every single text
So when you go through something like the pasher haba cook, which is what uh
Collins was quoting from there, right? I don't know if you've read it
But from start to it's it's not complete. It's only it's it's fragmented
right, so
It's it's just a it's just going through the text of haba cook it cites
It cites a passage from haba cook and then it says
The interpretation of this passage
Is when the teacher of righteousness
Entered the temple and confronted the wicked priest
So it's the same thing the new testament's doing in a way exactly the same thing
And it's the most benign most mundane stuff
That like to our eye, but because it's scripture
Um, it means something to me
Today
And that's like one of the fundamental one of the fundamental keys for understanding scripture
From from the perspective of those who wrote the gospels from those first christians from
From the the people
In and around palestine from that period was that all of this stuff means something to me
now
So they're they're just they're they're primed for it. They're looking for it
Paul does this, you know at one point in in the book of romans. He quotes from from deuteronomy
Um, it just just does this
Well, he he quotes from all sorts of scripture in in in romans
Uh, I think it's it's like nine through eleven is just a cavalcade of of of scripture quotations from paul
But he's doing this all the time where he's just pulling stuff out
Completely as we would say completely out of context, but they certainly did not see it like that
You know pull this stuff out completely out of context and say this is what it means
And you know and that was the prop that was the proper way to do it
They were just doing what everybody else was doing
This is the way ancient people ancient jews
read their texts
So it's no wonder that
We are here today
Where we're at with with uh with evangelical churches
totally because
um
We've we've inherited this
Very ancient sense of biblical interpretation that treats the bible
Uh
Like a like a coded message book
And that's why there's you know, that's why there's what is it? There's a hundred and is it a hundred and sixteen fulfilled prophecies of jesus
Uh, it depends on who you ask some say there's 300 some say there's you know, there's just so but that's why there's so many
Yeah, that's amazing
Dr. Davis you that's why there's so many the
Oh go ahead go ahead
No, I was going to say there's a lot of fertile ground in in uh, uh, some 22
um, right
Which is is loaded and obviously the gospel writers were
Had this in mind, right and we're writing
Uh the passion narrative on the basis of of Psalm 22 the gospel writers did this all the time
The the the writer of the gospel of luke patterned his story
After the uh narratives of Elijah and Elisha
in uh
In first kings if you read them side by side jesus is doing kind of doing the same sort of things in the same order
So anyways, Psalm 22 is it's this is what the gospel writers are doing but
um
What there was a lot of excitement and this was actually one of my teachers was um
was professor peter flint
Who passed away tragically?
Uh, I think it was I think it's been about six or seven years
ago now, but he was he was a
He was a favorite on like the trinity broadcasting network or here in canada. We have a show called 100 huntley street
Which is uh, which is like a like like a gospel tv show
He was a favorite among them. I used to go with him
as as a as one of his students to to churches where he would give presentations, right about about the dead sea scrolls and about
All the great things that they teach us about the bible and stuff
so he was the editor of uh, of all
I think it was not quite all but he was the editor for most of
The dead sea scrolls that contain
Uh portions of psalms and there's a lot of them. Um, there was a great deal of excitement
Uh within the evangelical community and maybe you've heard about this
Um, when it came to one of the manuscripts that have pervert that have preserved part of psalm 22
um
the reading
As he under the what what he wrote in his edition
was that the reading
Uh, where he he uh, he
He pierced my hands and my feet
Right, which is drawn actually from the septigent the great translation
Of the heber bible and not the heber text itself because that passage in the heber text says
Like a lion are my hands and feet and it's a weird. It's a weird passage and there's lots of there's there's some discussion about what it even means
um
anyways
peter flint
Uh wrote up in his edition that now we have
a kibru
manuscript
That preserves the reading
That uh that we see in the septigent translation the greek translation. Here is a heber manuscript
from um
It was either the the first century bc first century. Yeah from like the first century bc
which shows
this reading
of
piercing of the hands and feet
the problem
And even even among scholars, I think scholars can be guilty of this and most of the time is because scholars are busy
They're doing their own things. They've got their own projects. So they don't
They don't take the time always to go back and actually check everything
um
But when you look at most of us see pictures when we see pictures of the dead sea scrolls we see pictures of like
uh, the great isaia scroll
which is
phenomenally well preserved
And it's pretty easy to read. It's clear that the the text is clear and legible. It's it's
Most of them don't look anything like that
Uh, lots of them are really scrappy
Um, the inks flaked off. It's it's faded badly. Um, there's actually manuscripts where
Uh, which were written with the type of ink that contains like a copper and it which actually ate
through
the the leather
so
um
You know, lots of them are very poorly preserved and the fragment from which
uh
Peterfoot drew this reading
um
When you when I sit down and I look at the fragment I'm going well
Already this is problematic because it's badly preserved. It's hard to read
But to my eye
He's he's misread it. It doesn't say
uh
My hands and feet are pierced
It agrees with the hebrew version that we know
so
But this is one of these sorts of things right like
like
Very very few people are actually going to take the time and certainly not not christian apologists when they see that they glom onto it and
Hold on. Yeah forever. And that's right. Let's hang on. Yeah
It's it's ours. It's settled because this respected academic who did the actual work who wrote the actual
edition
Uh, this is the reading that he provided and he's an expert and he you know, he was he was a phenomenal scholar
but scholars make mistakes
right and scholars have their own biases
and you know, they they are going to
Read according to their biases. We all do it
but uh, but it's not it's not a settled issue
so
Yeah, let me just say this you have
I didn't expect us to do what we just did, you know, and this was
This is so good that I I swear this was amazing
I really want to do this again and delve deep into various fields
I am so thankful that you went into the Dead Sea Scrolls. Let's do this again
Everyone, please. I'm asking you to go and subscribe to his youtube channel
You're also working on a project here. Can you tell us what this is before we let you go?
So most of the work that I've been doing for the last
um, well almost the last decade
is um is on
uh
forgeries
of Dead Sea Scrolls fragments that have shown up
in mostly in
private evangelical institutions like the Museum of the Bible
I'm actually
to my to my shame
I was actually one of the editors
of the Museum of the Bible collection
of Dead Sea Scrolls fragments, which all turned out to be forgeries
um, but I've also been
involved
in this international project
dealing with
Forged manuscripts
um, and the focus of the project now the Lying Pen of Scribes project tends to be on
Providence and digital imaging lots of it's pretty technical
um, but some of it's some of it's uh, fairly cool even at at a lay perspective just because of
how um
how much
Providence narratives and and
so for for those who don't know
uh
Providence is is a term that's applied
to an artifact
That's discovered in like an archaeological excavation
um
Which informs us that it's it's legitimate and it came from where we claim it came from
um
The problem with the Dead Sea Scrolls as a whole
Is that most of them were discovered? There's the project there
um, most of them were discovered
by um
by Bedouin in
not in controlled excavations and
um
scholars basically had to take the word of
uh
These people who were selling them the fragments that they came from where they they claimed
They were found
um, this whole Providence narrative has essentially
been
uh
marshalled into
A way to sell all sorts of forgeries
Forged Dead Sea Scrolls fragments. They sell for hundreds of thousands of dollars
and um
We're in the process of
Of working through that and also attempting to provide
um
Better tools and uh a better perspective of the importance of of Providence
in
Uh in our study of ancient manuscripts. This is also, you know, it's also important because
it's a way of um insisting on proper Providence is a way of
uh limiting looting
and uh
lots of
Illegal activity and racketeering the destruction
Of of archaeological sites and cultural heritage
It's uh, Providence is a big issue
So this is the this is the project that i'm working on now
Thank you so much go subscribe to his channel hit that all
Guys, there's no reason we shouldn't have him way up there and so
I really really appreciate you and this was a
Very educational show
Let's do this again and let's cover
Man, this was this was something else. I didn't expect it to be this fun and it was that much fun
So thank you so much, man. Let's do this again. Awesome. You know when you bet
Totally and ladies and gentlemen go find his youtube go check his videos out drop a comment show him some love
Subscribe to the channel and never forget
We
