We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
I'm your host, Eric Lambert.
I am an ex-Christian fundamentalist
and my path coming out of Christianity is a long one.
I had a lot of good times,
but there's also some bad times and memories,
guilt, shame, remorse,
a lots of things that it's hard to describe
unless you've been there.
And today I have someone special joining me,
Dee the Humanist is actually joining me
and you guys need to go down in the description,
check her out, look at her YouTube, subscribe,
really help support the community
because she has an interesting story
that's kind of like what my story was.
Everyone looks at these crazy cults
and they're like, yeah, the Jehovah's Witnesses,
they're crazy, look at this cult,
the Mormons or the Scientologists with Tom Cruise,
but little do people pay attention
to the basic forms of Christianity
and the mental prison that often can be
an experience we go through.
So with that being said,
Dee, tell us a little bit about you,
what your background is in Christianity
and things like that, and then we'll go from there.
Sure, so I'm Dee, like Derek said,
it's great to be here
and a little bit about my background.
I grew up in Arkansas and I started out going to church,
I think when I was like seven years old,
but it wasn't really anything that I loved doing
or was like really committed to.
It wasn't until my teen years
that I really started to feel like my faith
was kind of like becoming my own.
So I think around, yeah, 15 or so,
I kind of became what I call a born again Christian.
I grew up in evangelical Christianity.
I don't know if my denomination had a specific name,
so we just said non-denominational,
but it's definitely not like the charismatic type of,
not the, yeah, it's just,
we just said non-denominational.
I think it was pretty similar to Baptist,
although we didn't subscribe to some of the same things
that Baptist subscribed to when I was a teenager,
when I first became what I call a born again Christian.
And so I grew up in my teen years
being a Christian and I became a little bit more,
I guess I would say extreme in my beliefs.
And I went off to college
and that's kind of where my most
serious years were as a Christian.
I was really interested in being involved in mission trips
and sharing the gospel with people on campus.
I was involved in this organization
at my college called BCM,
which is Baptist Collegiate Ministries.
It was the largest organization on our campus actually.
And yeah, I just got really involved there
and became a mentor to younger students
at that organization.
I was on our college worship team.
So I would, at one point I was like singing
and being in our like freshman band,
but then I moved to actually creating like the structure
for our college worship nights.
And then I moved on to,
we would call them family groups.
And so they would pair a guy and a girl together
and we'd kind of be the parents
of this new incoming group of freshmen
and we would teach them different things
about the Bible, have different topics.
And then they kind of like became our family
and we'd have these events
where we would have them over to our apartments and-
I'm surprised you were so faithful during college.
I mean, I'm not surprised.
If you took it seriously, then yes,
I see exactly why you did what you did
because in high school,
I would carry my little King James version of the Bible
that I had all these highlighted marks in to lunch.
And then like literally people would say,
but bro, why don't you wait till you're older?
Like wait till you get old and then get into religion
and get like deep into that.
Enjoy your life while you're young.
And I'm like, we don't have tomorrow.
You know, I'm like Bible minded and like I've got the Bible
and I'm reading it all the time.
So I just say that as a joke because I know like,
I probably like have so many years
that I could have just been a young man
and enjoyed life or whatever rather than reading the Bible.
But it is what it is, but yeah.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
And I mean, were you saying that you took it more seriously
in high school than in college?
Well, yeah, I took it serious in high school.
Then I partied and did my thing and then I came back.
So it's a little different for me probably,
but you went through-
Like with the opposite way.
Yeah.
Yeah, so you were partying and then you got serious or?
No, actually I was just saying like I was serious at first
and then I went flipped and went, I guess, party mode
like after I left Christianity.
But yeah, no, I was very serious about it.
So my background like growing up,
like my childhood and my teen years,
I went through a lot of traumatic things.
Like I was moving from family to family.
So I wasn't like, I didn't have like,
is very tumultuous, tumultuous.
So when I was introduced to this one family,
they were very, very religious and they were from up north.
So I don't know if they,
I don't know if they had like Mennonite background
or anything like that.
But I remember when they came into my life,
that's kind of when I got serious
because they kind of pushed me to,
if I was gonna be involved in the family,
then I kind of needed to take the faith seriously.
It was, it was, it's very strange.
I could definitely go into more detail about that.
But that's what happened when I was around 15 or 16,
is I was in this place with this family
who they were the youth pastors of my church at the time.
And they kind of pushed me in the direction
of becoming more serious about my faith.
And I think after all of that,
eventually I kind of broke down and then just accepted it.
And then from there on, it kind of became my own thing
where I wanted to continue learning for myself.
And like, so I think because of their influence,
that's what made me go the more strict route with,
I don't want to say strict
because I know there's definitely more fundamentalist
type routes than what I took.
But it was definitely before that time,
I think I was just, I would have identified as Christian,
but it was like, I go to the church,
I believe in the Bible and I believe in God.
That was kind of pretty much it.
Like that was the end of it for me.
But I became more strict after them being in my life.
And then through more tumultuous things,
and all of those tumultuous things led me to like be
like even stronger in my faith,
just because I didn't really have like family background.
So like I tied myself to God.
Like that was kind of why it was so such a big deal to me.
Because I really didn't have anything else.
And so it pushed me in that direction.
And I believed it.
It was a father that you didn't have.
It was a mother, it was a father, it was a family.
And when you praise and you put your hands up
and you're going, please God, you know,
you're like saying, daddy picked me up really
is what you're doing.
But it's really interesting to hear you say that.
Let me ask you this.
So you get, you're really, really serious.
And I want to dig into how serious, just for a moment.
And I'm talking college years.
So you're like reading your Bible.
Not like I read a verse with the pastor on a Sunday.
You're like, like in John chapter five,
like you're really like digging in to try and find out
from the Christian worldview, you know,
there's limitations on what you're able to see.
You're reading this stuff.
And how long would you say you were really serious about it?
And then I kind of want to get into the drama
and say like, it's not one thing, I'm sure.
There's probably many things, but like what happened?
You know what I'm saying?
Something happened.
So tell us how serious you were a little bit.
I'm interested.
Tease us a little.
And then, yeah.
I was pretty serious.
I think I got serious, very serious about my faith.
My freshman year of college, probably about midway through.
I just got around a lot of people
that I also saw were serious about their faith.
And I wanted to be like,
not that I needed social approval,
but it was like, I felt like they were on a good path
and I kind of wanted to be on that path too.
So I was always attending every single BCM event there was.
I got involved in a church family.
I moved around quite a bit for churches,
but I tried to get involved when I was there
at the churches that I chose at the time.
But I was very serious.
I wouldn't tell people how much I was reading the Bible.
I wouldn't tell people about
how much I was praying or anything like that.
But it was something that I did
because I wanted to do it on my own.
So I spent thousands of hours probably reading the Bible
and praying and studying and trying to apply it to my life.
Anybody who knew me in college knew
that I would start off conversations
or at some point in a conversation with me,
I would ask, what is God doing in your life?
How's God doing in your life?
Totally happened to every single conversation.
I actually remember when I was out of Christianity,
I had some friends that I just didn't know how to talk to
because I knew if I didn't say this,
they would know something was up, right?
Because they would be like,
Deborah's always talking about God and her faith
and my faith, so I'm very confused.
So I had a really hard time talking to people
after I left Christianity because I wanted to keep it
under wraps that I wasn't a Christian anymore,
but it was so hard because my behavior
would be able to be a dead giveaway.
Wow, I guess asking you now,
it'll be a good point to just ask you,
do you cringe at the idea of how we probably looked when-
Oh, absolutely.
I went back actually in apologize to several people
for some of the things that I said
or like the way I behaved around them.
They didn't care, but I did because I just thought
it was just so cringy and I just couldn't believe
like I behaved in some of the ways that I did.
But oh yeah, I look back,
I have Facebook posts that pop up like,
oh, seven years ago, you said this and I was like-
Oh, I've got memories, go somewhere with those memories.
Yeah, I know, I kind of,
I like using them as like a badge to say,
look at where I came from.
Yeah.
I'm globe, like I'm thinking bigger.
I'm not thinking the way I once thought
and I like to keep moving.
So now that you've teased us with like how dedicated
and serious you were of a Christian,
this might get emotional.
I don't know your story really,
but like what happened?
Something had to start to give way.
Yeah, well, going back to how I was very serious
about my faith, I spent a Thanksgiving,
I think my junior year of college by myself on campus,
everybody else left and I did this Bible study
just by myself spending time with God for a week.
And during that time, I felt like God was telling me
to not be scared of like living life
and to like not be scared of serving him
and whatever he calls me to do.
And I got this thought in my mind
that I needed to go to Australia.
I had no idea where it came from,
but it was like, Lord, what do you want me to do?
And going to Australia for me would be very scary
because I've never, at the time,
I had never left the United States.
I didn't want to go overseas anywhere.
I kind of was like, I'm in the US,
it's the best place in the world.
Why would I ever want to leave?
I know that's a weird mindset,
but that's where I was at the time.
And I was, I don't want to fly over the ocean.
I'm so scared of dying on an airplane.
I don't want to go to Australia.
There's a lot of like dangerous animals and insects there.
Like I don't want to go there,
but I felt like God was calling me.
So I was like, okay, like I will do whatever
you want me to do, Lord.
It was so weird.
It's so weird me saying that right now,
but that's what I thought I needed to do.
And then all of a sudden, like the next school semester
in January, I started telling everybody
about what God had told me.
I was like, I don't know when this is gonna happen,
but I feel like God is calling me to do this.
And then like through a series of steps
of like telling one of my friends
who got me in contact with our study abroad office,
who said they had a new program available
where just started and they have options
for going to Australia,
but the deadline was coming pretty quick.
Like I needed to put in my application
to pay for everything like that week.
And there was no guarantee that I would get my first choice
of going to any of the schools in Australia.
It's kind of like you list out your five schools
that you want to go to and they,
whichever schools are sending students over
and you are matched for,
like that's the country that you go to or whatever.
So I didn't expect to get my first choice of school.
I filled out three schools from Australia
and two schools, like one from Fiji
and one from South Africa.
In case God didn't want you to go to Australia,
I gotta go to Fiji, you know what I'm saying?
I'm just kidding.
Yeah, exactly.
So I wasn't sure exactly what was happening,
but I was like, the Lord opened up this door.
That's what I thought.
The Lord opened up the door.
And so through a series of steps,
I eventually ended up later that year in Australia.
And I, through the whole process,
I was telling everybody at my church,
I was telling everybody at the BCM, you know,
what was going on.
And I felt like this was like a mission trip
that God was sending me on for some reason.
He wanted me to go to Australia
and he wanted me to share the gospel
or do something over there.
I wasn't sure.
And so everybody was like really supportive of me
and people were financially helping me.
I was doing fundraisers by like selling bracelets
and people were more than happy to buy those
and just give me extra funds.
And so I ended up in Australia
and mind you, I was a poor college student at the time.
So I didn't have a lot of money.
So that, and then I think I like, I don't know,
I got funds from like scholarships and stuff to go do this.
And so it just felt like everything was falling into place.
Well, I get over to Australia.
And at first I did feel like God was calling me
to like be a light for my roommates
because in Australia, I don't know how much, you know,
about Australia-
I have some good friends in Australia, but-
Yeah, so the culture there is a little different.
Christianity is just not as, well, it's a lot different,
but as far as like religion goes,
Christianity just isn't as important as it is here.
So the churches that I was going to
were a lot smaller than they are here.
I had a harder time getting involved in organizations
like I would in the United States,
but I was trying really hard.
Like immediately as soon as I got there,
I got on a bus and tried to find a church
and have it drop me off at one.
And like, I was like super serious
about getting grounded somewhere in Australia,
but the culture was just a little different.
I eventually did find some good friends
who were Christians similar to how I was back in the US.
And anyway, I got involved with them.
So with that, and then my roommates,
I just thought that I was on this like big quest
of like sharing the gospel.
And I mean, they, my roommates,
they already knew about Christianity,
but it wasn't like important.
One of them was a Christian,
but she basically, like from my perspective,
had backslidden.
So I felt like it was like my job to kind of get her back.
I know exactly, like, when we're that serious
and we see others aren't, it's really easy to judge.
It's so easy to say, you're not doing shit.
You're not really living your life for Jesus.
Like, you saying you believe, there ain't no way,
actions speak louder than words.
And yeah, I could see that.
Well, and I called this roommate out on it,
but in a nicer way, but I definitely was pushing her.
And that's one of those things that I look back out now
and say, oh, I cannot believe that I behaved that way.
Like, I'm sure I didn't come across as mean,
but maybe a little pushy.
And then some of my other roommates,
one of the other ones, she was like Anglican
or her background was Anglican,
but I remember one time we were in the living room
and we were like, she loved gay cowboys.
That's what she said.
She's like, I love Brokeback Mountain.
And I was like, you cannot watch this.
Like, you cannot like watch this in the apartment.
Cause I was like, so like, this isn't okay.
Like this is like of Satan type thing.
Like, you know, I wouldn't have said that,
but I definitely was like, this is not godly.
So I was like trying to get her
to change her perspective on things.
So it was just, it was just a weird situation.
But anyway, while this was all going on,
I was also introduced to some atheists in Australia.
Some of them were friends of my roommates
and they would come in and they would like
have conversations with us.
And so it's kind of my first introduction to
like atheists in my everyday life.
I mean, I did have some atheists in my life in high school,
but I saw them as, I don't know,
like, not that there was something wrong with them,
but I just didn't think the path that they were on
was honorable.
So I just didn't even like bother to,
I don't know, listen to anything that they had to say.
But then in Australia, I was introduced to these people
and I don't know.
I think I kind of just started to listen a little bit.
I was a little bit more open to listening
when I moved to Australia
because going to a different country,
just you have to start seeing things a little differently.
Anyway, sorry.
I feel like I'm like doing all that.
Well, no, I mean, look, let me try and hone you in, right?
So you obviously are slowly starting to do what I did,
whereas like I started to listen
for years I wasn't listening.
I mean, I was listening, listening to respond,
listening to give a defense,
but not like the words they were saying
didn't really pierce to give me any like,
I wasn't actually considering anything they said.
You began to like actually potentially honestly
consider what maybe was being said
and like was those seeds planted in your head,
so to speak or?
Yeah, well, I think because I was in a different culture,
I was more open to listening
because I knew that I didn't know things.
Like going into a different culture,
I was like, I need to learn how they live life.
And so I think already I was just in this state
of being more willing to listen.
And then I think that eventually translated over
to my beliefs as well, but what really started it for me
was when I was involved in this organization on campus
and one of the things that the organization had us do,
and there were not very many people in this organization,
like maybe five to 10 of them, five to 10 people,
which was so small compared to my 50, 60, 70 member group
in Arkansas.
But they, I remember talking about like,
well, what's the difference between Islam and Christianity?
Like I was asking one of the leadership members
and she's like, well, why don't we go and talk
to some of the Muslims on campus?
And I was like, like it made me nervous
because I was like, I don't know, I don't know what to say.
I'm like kind of a little nervous.
I, it was just so foreign to me to even give up.
Like why would you go talk to them?
They don't know the truth.
Like why would you, yeah, I get it.
She was kind of trying to open up like a conversation,
I guess maybe to, I don't really know why they did that,
but yeah, it was definitely a eye-opening experience
talking to Muslims on the campus at my college
in Australia.
And we had like this worksheet where,
that my leadership person gave me of like asking them
like what the five pillars of Islam are
and like why they believe what they believe.
Like just really like getting into some like details
about what it is that they believe.
And then she would have me come back
and talk to her about them.
So that was kind of my first like hands-on experience
talking with people of other faiths
and like being more open to listening.
And instead of like you said,
like just speaking to like make an argument.
So that happened.
And then I started questioning some things like,
wow, like I don't understand some of these things
that they believe are, they're not similar to what I believe,
but the way that they got to that conclusion
is the same exact way that I got to my conclusion.
Why am I right?
And so then I started to get you to like,
that really makes you start wondering deep down.
You still held on, but-
I'll have them for a while after this.
Like that wasn't, that was like the beginning,
but I started getting involved in Bible classes.
And then it kind of like calmed my questions
for a little while.
Like I think I was in some classes by Bill Mounce.
I don't know if that's-
I've heard of him, yes.
I think I've read a book by him actually.
Yeah, and there's some other ones.
I can't remember the name of it.
It's been so long now,
but I started getting involved in these Bible classes
that they teach at universities
or sometimes even theological seminaries
because I just wanted to know.
I actually had a blog at the time.
It was my blog when I was a Christian
where I would write about spirituality.
And it was also so people could follow along with me
on my journey in Australia.
And I wrote a blog post about why it was important
that we needed to know why we believe what we believed.
And I had just recognized this.
And I was like, it's okay if you don't know why,
but I think it's important that we know why.
So I created a poll for people to vote
on which items they wanted me to study
so that I could come back and write blog posts on them
so that I could pretty much defend the faith
and give them some resources to defend their faith too.
And that's the process that I started digging into it.
And I was having a really hard time writing my posts
because the more I dug into stuff,
the more some things didn't make sense.
Like I think the first,
the one that everybody voted on was how do we know
that the, how do we know that the books in the Bible
that we have are accurate or it was something,
what is the, gosh, I can't remember right now,
but it was, how do we know that what we have
is the same as the original?
Authentic, yeah, or like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh gosh.
And how, and you didn't even have like any expertise
in any of this.
You're just a Christian who's like,
I'll just Google it and find another Christian
who's done the research and I'll know the answers.
You're like, it won't be hard.
Well, at this time, my method of researching
was usually going to gotquestions.org,
answers and genesis.
There's this place in Texas called Breakaway Ministries
where this guy been steward.
He was like the director of the,
it was a Christian group at Texas A&M campus
and they would have like Tuesday night sessions.
And he did a topic, he did a whole sermon on
how do we know that the,
how do we know that the texts that we have are,
are the same as the sources from,
or they're the same as the original.
That's the original, yeah.
Yeah, like I'm trying to,
because the reason why I'm trying to like figure out
what exactly it is that he said
is because the question that I was asking
was the wrong question at the time.
Like I was asking, how do we know what we have now
is the same as what we had back then
when really I should have been asking,
how do we know that the originals that we have
are actually what happened?
Do you see what I'm saying?
Okay.
Okay, so,
how do we know that the books we have now
are what the originals were or what actually happened?
So my question that I was asking at the time
was how do we know what we have now
is the same as what we had back then.
Right.
But that doesn't matter if the originals aren't,
or they're not true.
They're not real.
You know what, they're not telling the originals.
Because we don't have originals.
We don't have originals.
Okay, Bart Ehrman like writes on this
and he's like a big guy I really enjoy getting into,
like we don't have the originals.
But that question-
It talks about having coffees of coffees of coffees.
Yes, that is such a horrible question to get into
if you're a Christian who's trying to stay a Christian.
You don't wanna get into this question,
but I get why because you're like, well, if it's true,
then I have nothing to fear or nothing to hide from.
Like I should be able to find this out, no problem.
Exactly, and that's exactly the perspective
I was coming from.
I was coming from, I had so much confidence in my faith
that it didn't matter what I looked into
because I knew at the time,
I knew that whatever I looked into
would lead right back to God.
That's how confident I was.
So it was actually my confidence in Christianity
that led to my ultimate leaving of Christianity.
It wasn't because I didn't believe it.
It was because I believed it so much
that when the evidence was stirring me right in the face
that it wasn't what I thought it was,
I couldn't stay anymore and had to leave.
Dee, you literally hit the nail on the head
and I'm not even being funny.
Christians who think you were never a Christian,
just by what you said because I've experienced this,
Christians who think you were never a Christian
don't know what they're talking about.
You were the realest that comes, okay?
You were the realest of them that can come
because that right there is evidence to me
how serious you were about truth
that it took you out of what you figured out wasn't true.
And that is the thing.
Now, whether or not there's some God or a deity
or a being or a spirit or a force or something,
that's a whole nother question then.
The Bible, is the Bible true?
Is it actually historically accurately true?
Is it good lessons?
Maybe some stuff, but that's an intense exploration.
So let me ask you this then probing deeper on that.
You went like PhD level question
and you're like barely just now getting into this
in terms of like, if you look at the research
that people do and the PhDs that I interview and whatnot,
what happened in your head when you started to delve
into this, like did you come across some stuff
that wasn't like Christian approved or what happened?
Not at the time.
I was so overwhelmed by what I was trying to get into
like you said, because this is like deep stuff
that's people with PhDs are studying this kind of thing.
And I just kind of felt like I got in a little over my head.
So I stopped studying at one point and just accepted
that the Christians probably knew
what they were talking about.
And later on, this all came back up.
So it was like a two year process from me getting
to Australia and finally leaving Christianity altogether.
So I was probably looking into this stuff
probably six months before I was like,
I mean, I have notebooks full of notes
that I was taking on all these courses.
And I finally just gave up because I was like,
I'm never gonna know this stuff.
And the Christians, like these people who've studied this
who are Christians, they've got it.
They know what they're doing.
So it wasn't until later on I had some actual
like experiences in my life that combined
with all this stuff that I was like,
it all came back to my memory of like, wait a second,
it doesn't matter that we, if the information
that we have now is similar to the original texts,
what matters is, are these original texts even accurate
in the first place?
Are they really telling what actually happened?
And so that's kind of, I pulled all that stuff
back later on.
And then though the experiences that I had in my life,
I mean, I think it was just,
I was going through some more turmoil in life
and I had more of those questions
and like things weren't lining up from my experience.
So what I was told to apply of Christianity
versus my experience and like what I was supposed to experience
by applying what I was applying was not lining up.
So I was very confused as to, okay, life application wise,
this isn't making any sense.
Why?
I felt the same way.
I felt like there was a conflict
on what seemed natural and good to me.
And then like the views that I'm seeing in this books
and how it's how you're,
you have to like brush over a lot of stuff too.
You should hate your mother, fathers, brothers,
come follow me.
Like Jesus is more important than all of them.
And there's like, some things just didn't click to me.
Some things didn't click, you know?
And there were always explanations for all of those things.
That's when I was in Christianity,
there was always an explanation
for why those things didn't make sense.
And somebody could always explain it away.
And when you, I think this goes back to,
I had to learn how to think logically
after I left Christianity.
It's not that I wasn't a critical thinker.
It was just the way that the logic is applied
when I was in Christianity was a little weird
and it could allow for anything, honestly, to be true.
And so I had to relearn, I guess,
kind of how to think after that
because that was definitely a thing
where there was always an answer to everything.
And, you know, it would always end up with,
well, God works in mysterious ways.
If there wasn't an answer,
like who are you to question God?
And it's like, when I finally was ready
to question past that point,
that's kind of when things started moving
from my downfall from Christianity
was being brave enough to question past that point
because when you, when I was a Christian,
I wasn't allowed to question past there
or I would be seen as arrogant or testing God.
So it made you feel bad about yourself
to ask these questions
because you were seen as trying to play God, I guess.
And I got to a point eventually
where I was able to ask those questions
because I was like, look, if God created the universe
and God really does care about me, like I think he does,
he is not gonna have a problem with my questions.
He's not gonna have a problem with me questioning past.
God works in mysterious ways.
And if he really exists, like he's gonna give me good answers
because he cares.
And so then that took away the fear
of asking past that point.
And then that's actually, yeah.
That's when I started discovering things like
the Exodus didn't happen as it is written in the Bible.
Ark, the flood could not have happened
the way that it is written with what we know about physics
and weather and-
A lot of things.
All kinds of things, yes.
And so that's kind of, yeah.
So that's how I discovered all that stuff.
It took a lot of courage to move past
a lot of these things that
evangelical Christianity specifically
kind of creates to have a hold on you
so that you don't leave.
I don't know why it's been placed the way that it is,
but there were definitely some areas of control
that I didn't realize until after I left.
And we were talking about-
Oh, go ahead.
No, no, you-
I was just gonna say we were talking about cult-like behavior
and I don't necessarily think I was in a cult,
but there's definitely the bite model.
I can definitely point out different points
on the bite model where what I followed
definitely qualified.
What are the behavior control, information control,
thought control, and emotional control?
Yeah, what I was involved in
definitely had elements of those,
but wasn't fully controlling,
like maybe something on Scientology
or I don't know how bad Mormonism is
with that kind of thing.
Or no, what's a good one?
What's that?
The Jehovah's Witnesses.
Jehovah's Witnesses.
Branched Divinians, you're talking about?
Yeah, like branched Divinians or things like that.
You know, funny thing, fun fact,
I was actually in a Jehovah's Witness church
or Kingdom Hall until I was six years old.
My mother was a Jehovah's Witness
and when I lived with her, we would go.
I don't remember much about that experience.
I don't know if I was allowed into the actual place
where they did their normal sessions,
but I remember being at a Kingdom Hall, yeah.
Wow, yeah, so you were at a young age.
Now, when you left, when you finally like,
I'm sure you were like me, I'm pretty sure.
I can't say, but I'm pretty sure.
Once we saw behind the curtain, we saw the magic trick
and we're like, oh man, I know exactly how they do this.
Like I see the problem.
Did you kind of obsess for a while
over like trying to figure out like
how much of this is probably not true?
And did you have kind of a freedom?
Cause I was afraid to listen to those guys
like Richard Dawkins and, you know,
I wouldn't listen to any of these Christopher Hitchens.
He was evil.
He hated God.
He didn't really want the truth.
There were many atheists out there.
I never paid attention to it.
I ignored because of my faith.
Did you ever like take them and say, all right,
I'm going to look at what they say now
and really consider, or how did it work for you
when you left?
Like as you started seeing problems with the flood,
problems with the exodus, was that it?
That's all you needed was enough of that.
And then you were like, I'm out.
Kind of cause the way that I view Christianity was
if I can't believe all of it, then I can't believe any of,
like if all of it's not true,
then how do I know which parts to trust
and which parts not to?
And so I was kind of out.
I started watching, Jacqueline Glenn
was the first YouTuber that I ran across
and she was an atheist.
And I started listening to her talk about
just different topics.
So for me, I didn't care as much about
like the philosophical arguments
or any of that kind of stuff.
I care about practical application in life.
So everything in Christianity for me was all about,
is this true and can I practically apply it
and is it still true in practical application?
And that's how I kind of judged
what was true about Christianity and what wasn't.
I didn't care about the philosophical stuff.
In day to day life, it doesn't matter.
The one matters is your experience,
but I also know like you can't find truth
based on experience because experience is subjective.
But if it's true, it should be true in experience as well.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah.
Makes sense.
That makes sense.
So I really like Jacqueline's stuff
because she talked about more like day to day life,
what it was like or what type of topics
people care about in the day to day living sense.
And listening, I was interested in listening to her,
but it definitely felt taboo at first.
I felt very strange listening to an atheist
and some of, I was uncomfortable with some of the things
that she would talk about or the way that she would talk
because I didn't curse as a Christian.
I didn't drink as a Christian.
I was like, even my thoughts, like I tried to keep them
like as what I would have called back then
as pure as possible.
So even like in my mind, like even thinking something
like that I thought was wrong was just,
like it just felt very uncomfortable for me
as I started leaving.
And so I started watching her stuff
and then I discovered a couple other atheist YouTubers.
But I didn't call myself an atheist at first
when I love Christianity.
I didn't know what I believed when I left.
I, at the time, I thought maybe there was a God
or I didn't know, but I just knew that it wasn't this one.
Like this one doesn't match up.
I did add up, yeah.
But maybe there could be a God, but I don't know.
So I think when I first left,
like I would have considered myself still a theist,
but just I didn't know what kind of theist.
I was the same way, I think I was something like that.
So you went from theist and you started to obviously
get more comfortable with things
that you would never even think.
It wouldn't be allowed to think in your own head.
And then you left the church, you felt freedom.
I mean, when did it, was it painful at first?
Or how did it work?
All of it, all of those emotions
like kind of hit at the same time.
Before I left, I just had a lot of stress
because I couldn't figure out what was true and what wasn't.
I was trying to figure out the whole idea
of the Holy Spirit, like on my YouTube channel,
I talk about my experience of the Holy Spirit
and then why I don't see that as a real thing
or like it wasn't the Holy Spirit that I thought it was
and the reasons why.
Well, during that time, before I fully left Christianity,
I had just moved to Texas
and I was struggling with how the Holy Spirit works.
How do I know I'm hearing from the Holy Spirit?
So I was just in a very stressful state in my mind
of just severe cognitive dissonance.
And I felt almost like frozen,
like unable to like move
because I just didn't know what was happening to me
and why I couldn't move forward
and all these things were starting to not make sense.
So it was very difficult.
I remember thinking that I could not think
that this was not true.
Cause if I thought it wasn't true,
that's if I think that God isn't true
or this God isn't true or the Holy Spirit isn't true,
that's blaspheming God.
And like if I do that, I'm going to hell.
Like that's the ultimate sin.
Like you can do anything,
not that I just went up and went to sin
cause I felt like it,
but you could do anything except that
because once you do that,
there's like no turning back and you're going to hell.
Like that's what I thought.
And so I had this severe like fear of hell,
but it didn't last very long.
It lasted about maybe like three weeks
where I was very scared of like, I'm going to hell now.
So like as I made the transition,
it was almost like I didn't make the decision myself
to leave Christianity.
It was, I started looking into what other people said.
I started to see the things about the Exodus.
I started to see the things about Noah's Ark.
I started to be like, well, could this still be true?
And those things not be true.
And I was like, no, like this doesn't make any sense.
Can you imagine if all the stories aren't true, literally?
Like the parts that really make us go, God, God is great.
Look what he did.
This miracle he did.
Look at this miracle.
If all that was true was Babylon conquered Israel
and then Cyrus the Great and Persia
allowed them to go rebuild,
like basic stuff that happens every day
or even potentially just happens in history,
men make treaties and find ways to get along or whatever.
But what made the Bible have that punch that you and me had
was Moses split the Red Sea, snakes from staffs,
women from ribs or, you know, like...
All the miracles, yeah.
Yes, talking donkeys and Elijah looking at the,
you know, like the whole fricking, that's what it was.
If you take that away and that's not true,
what is left after that?
And what's so special about it, yeah.
Nothing, nothing's, I mean, it's just another
potentially convoluted history book.
Don't get me wrong.
There's still valuable stuff there.
I'm not trying to throw anything under the bus,
but I'm saying as a faith,
as a belief where you're concerned about this deity,
I'm with you.
I agree with you 100% like...
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it was very weird.
And now the way I view the Bible now is I think
there are a lot of good things that you can learn
from the Bible as far as like morals,
but I also think you can find those exact same things
outside of the Bible without a lot of the unnecessary,
maybe even talk to the pieces.
And I also think there is some like historical parts
to the Bible, but sometimes they're like blown out
of proportion and they're not like exactly what happens.
It's kind of like people writing in their own interpretations
or anyway, I don't want to get into that,
but I definitely agree with it.
You're right, I'm with you too.
Look, I thought Jesus and the whole thing
was a complete myth.
I went all the way to the other side,
I was fundamentalist Christian, fundamentalist skeptic,
you know, like it's extreme, it's all myth.
Yeah.
I'm with you now.
Like I'm like, okay, hold on.
There's some kernel here.
There's something here and the men embellished
and enhanced and legendized this narrative, you know what I mean?
Yes, that's exactly the way I...
That's even a term.
But I get it.
I get that's exactly the way I think about it as well.
Like I was studying recently about the lineage
of the people early in the Old Testament
and there's this really great YouTube video,
I can't remember what it's called,
but they do a whole chart of the people in the Old Testament
and when it becomes, when it's myth,
when it becomes legend,
and when there's actually like historical...
parts to the Bible.
And I really enjoyed doing that
because it just like gave me a new perspective on it,
on okay, okay, like you said,
like going from one extreme to the other.
Okay, here I was a fundamentalist Christian,
so let's throw everything out now.
Yeah, yeah.
And now like none of this is true,
like everything is just based on myth,
but that's not actually the case.
So anyway...
Do you...
You are a bad ass.
I just cussed.
I'm sorry.
No, I'm just, I'm not sorry actually.
You seriously are.
You've been through a lot.
You had a tough upbringing as a child.
You've been through quite a lot.
I'm proud of you just speaking out today
because this is the first time
I think you've actually done like a...
I'm gonna share my story and you know,
and I'm thankful that you did that on my channel
and you were able to come and tell everybody
and to kind of like show your heart and your mind
and like say, this is like
showing you exactly what I was thinking.
So someone else who might be watching this
might relate and say, you know,
that's where I'm at right now.
And it's okay where they're at.
They could stay where they're at.
They feel like they need to be where they're at.
That's okay.
But you're showing them that it can be done
and there is life outside.
So my final question to you would be this.
How happy are you now?
Like, I know not every day sunshine
and not every day is, oh my God,
I'm so glad to be alive.
But in comparison, like overall, how do you feel?
I feel freedom for sure.
I think that's the biggest thing
is I feel so much freedom,
so much freedom to explore like the world
and maybe how things actually operate
instead of being constricted by these arbitrary rules
or ideas that were based on specific denominations
of Christianity.
And I think when I first left,
I had a mixture of emotions,
but ultimately, so I was angry.
I was confused, but I was relieved.
I was so relieved that I didn't have
to believe this stuff anymore.
I was so relieved that I didn't have to follow
a lot of these arbitrary rules.
And I would say now I'm kind of
on like a new path in life, though.
So this is, I left Christianity like five, six years ago.
So now I'm kind of like on this new path
where I'm kind of discovering spirituality again,
but not, but as an atheist, just, you know,
mental and emotional health.
And I feel like right now,
I am so happy with that process
and I would have never been able to be where I am
if I wouldn't have been able to leave Christianity
or that specific type of Christianity.
So I don't regret anything.
You know, it was hard losing.
I lost a lot of friends and I lost my community back then,
but I've been able to add more people into my life and people.
I feel like I'm more accepting of people
than I was as a Christian.
So a lot more accepting of people
from a lot of different backgrounds.
Sorry, Maya, I'm using the sun.
You're fine. No, no, no.
That's perfect.
The lighting's getting better as we speak.
Yeah, no, I'm just kidding.
Yeah, I feel like I just have this freedom
and this sense of awe for life
that I didn't have as a Christian
because it was so rigid and it was so like,
this is the way you have to live life
if you're going to be happy.
And I think I convinced myself I was happy.
But when I laughed, I was like, no, I was so restricted.
I was like, there's so many things that I just didn't realize
were holding me back or making me unhappy.
Or when I let those go, like, yeah,
it opened up this new world where I could explore and I don't know.
I really do love this.
This is wonderful where you're at now.
And you don't have to have the label atheist.
I mean, look, it's like if you feel like
you have to explore something and explore it,
I think that constantly practicing that critical thinking
that allowed you to realize when something wasn't true
and keep applying that on every type of worldview you get to,
there's some things that are just practically good for you.
I told this to a buddy of mine today.
I wrestled back and forth between complete natural or materialism
is everything based off natural processes, evolution, the whole nine.
Did the universe pop out of existence,
if you will, from a quantum mechanic theory or something?
Are there natural explanations that don't demand a God?
OK, that's cool.
But we're story creatures.
So the myth of Iron Man or the myth of this or that,
there's value in the lessons and it's fiction.
It's a fiction.
It's a made up myth, but it carries narrative.
And as long as we know there's value in the narrative,
oftentimes we can get that.
We create our own reality in a lot of ways.
And we can create our own truth, so to speak, if you will.
So you've shown that that can be done.
And I really commend you and I'm proud of you.
And I can't wait to see how you are in three to five years from now,
like where you're going to be at.
You might be leading your own cult.
No, I'm just kidding.
Yeah, I'm just teasing.
I know all the way it works now, so I know how to make it happen.
Well, if everybody wants to join these cults,
just go down in the description.
No, I'm just kidding.
Seriously, go subscribe to her YouTube channel
and any of the other links that we put down there
to go support and check her out and see what else she might add.
You might join her and check her out on Twitter.
Look at your post on Facebook.
She's got a Facebook page, all that fun stuff.
But it's really cool seeing you happy
and knowing that you found yourself, if that makes sense.
Yeah.
Yeah, and not the movie that was tied to Christianity.
That like I was told this was the me.
Yeah, it was like when all that went away,
I could discover who I guess who I actually am.
Wow.
Well, thank you so much.
Let's do this again for sure.
Yeah, great.
Thank you.
It's my first video like this, my first collab.
So it was great to do this with you, Derek.
Yeah, I appreciate it.
And please, everyone, go show her some love.
Like this video.
And if you guys want to see this,
I'm dropping this early on Patreon.
And then, of course, I'm going to send it to UD
and then you can feel free to send it out everywhere you want.
But if you are struggling, you're not alone.
There is life outside of these types of things.
And in case you didn't know, we are meth vision.
