There are hundreds of videos that haven't been launched on YouTube, on Patreon. Make
sure you guys join the Patreon to help us grow. Weeeeee are. MythVision. Atheism. Atheism.
The lack of belief in the divine or deity's a deity. Is that what it really means? Well,
we're going to talk about atheism. Everything atheism is going to be about this show. And
Tom Jump is, I like to say an upcoming, I think you're going to be replacing one of
the four horsemen at some point, fingers crossed. But no, you debate a lot on the topic. And
I really appreciate what you bring, making people think you're challenging yourself in
this process and you're thinking and you're getting a lot of people that are like PhDs
or that are scholars in the field and you're holding your own quite well. So welcome to
MythVision podcast, brother. Thanks. Thanks for inviting me on. I appreciate the opportunity,
as always. Yeah, thanks for coming on last time. I really do appreciate it. My fans,
of course, love you. I think we got a lot of overlap in many ways. Also, go to his YouTube
channel guys, Tjump. He's done a ton of debates. He's still doing debates. You guys can help
him out. Subscribe, like the videos, comment on the videos, the algorithm likes that stuff
so that people like him can get promoted and grow and get this information out there for
more people to think rationally, considering that maybe we're superstitious and we need to
start growing out of that sum. And you're big about attacking these things, not attacking.
I don't want that to sound like a negative thing, but you are going headstrong on tackling
irrational concepts and ideas. You've debated Hindus. It looks like the last guy I was watching
live yesterday that was premiered on yours was a Hindu. Yeah, of course. Hari Krishna,
which is technically, because Hinduism isn't really well-defined. There's a bunch of different
ones. He's specifically a Hari Krishna. Okay. I got to be careful how that goes. They'll say,
you're straw manning my belief. But yeah, you do a lot of that stuff. So he also has a patron.
You know, MythVision has a patron. He has a patron. How much is it to join your patron?
I think the $1 is the lowest or $2, one or two.
Cup of coffee, guys. Go join. Or just go with $100,000, put $1,000 in there. I'm cool with that too.
Yeah, that'll actually get you points into Atheist Heaven. But we'll talk about Atheist Heaven
after we talk about how irrational the other concepts of heaven are. Dude, welcome, man.
Thank you so much. Yeah, absolutely. I'm glad to be on, as always. I'm still jealous of your
hair. It's quite much better than my hair. Dude, I've been doing something. I don't even know what
I'm doing with my hair, man. I just, I don't know. I don't know. Some days I wake up and just
figure something out and throw it up there. I get people who comment sometimes like,
you don't know what you're doing with your hair, but great show. Okay. But dude, I have to admit,
I got to ask you a secret before we get into this. Are the answers that you're coming up with
truly coming from the chair sitting behind you? Is it whispering the answers to you?
Exactly the fifth. Okay. Okay. You guys know the answer to that. You know it. Common if you
know the answer to that. Dude, atheism. Christians want to, I want to start with the definition
here. And I've watched so many of your debates, and man, one of them, it just kind of irks me
that they want to spend 50 minutes out of an hour and a half to try and tell you what atheism means
for you. It's killing me, man. So what is atheism? It is the worship of magical potatoes.
Yeah. It's a pretty interesting debate tactic to say that, well, your position is this, and I'm
going to tell you what your position is, and you have to defend the position I just told you to
defend because that's, that's essentially what theists have to do is, is one of the ways they
deflect the burden of proof is by trying to make the atheist hold up a position that they don't
really hold. The whole point of atheism is that all of the theist arguments are crap. That is,
that is atheism. Atheism is essentially just the position that everything the theists are saying
they're full of shit. That's it. So that's why we try to put it into a more technical term to say
that, like, there is no reason to believe in God or we lack belief because there's no evidence or
whatever. But the real reason is just all the things the theists there is complete crap. They're
just, they're just made up. And we call them out on that. That's kind of the point of atheism is to
say that all the stuff that theists are saying doesn't make sense. The arguments don't work.
The evidence they claim to have doesn't justify any of their claims. It doesn't work in any of
the other fields. It's rejected in the consensus of every academic field. There's no evidence to
support it whatsoever. And yet the theists want to come back and say that all this stuff is reasonable
to believe in their sky daddy, which it's not. And when the atheists say that and say all that's
just junk, well, the theist wants to come back and say, well, no, to be an atheist, you have to
reject God, you have to prove God doesn't exist. See, if he doesn't exist, well, then he does.
Or that you have a belief, like you have a belief in the negation of a God. And it's like
they create, they want it to become a religion of its own. And that's what they do. They do that.
Yeah, exactly. Because they don't want to have to address the claims that their arguments are
bull crap. So if you say like, that argument is terrible, they don't want to have to defend their
argument because they realize they're going to lose every time in that debate because the
atheist positions are significantly stronger and their arguments are absolutely terrible.
So what they do is they shift the burden of proof to say, you have to prove God doesn't exist.
That's that's that's how we can win the argument. So we're going to force you to defend a position
that isn't really your position. Yeah, that's that gives me a headache every time because it's like,
I feel like in when I watch, I try not to be biased. I really do try. We all have it. It's
natural. I am biased. I am an atheist. I'm someone who doesn't believe in a God. I did.
I don't believe in any divine. Could there be something? Sure, possibly, but that's outside
of my realm of being able to prove and having no evidence for such a thing. I just can't justify
believing in that. And that's okay with me. I understand that mostly from my understanding
where I was at as a theist was more emotional. That that's really one of the reasons I held
on to the divine almost like a child does with their invisible friend or with there's a psychological,
you know, teddy bear experience with your teddy bear, you create a friend for yourself. And
really, you're talking to yourself. I found that out as I was praying to get off heroin five years
ago. I thought it was God that helped me. And I got off heroin, which I looked back and I go, wow,
man, I was talking to myself like I was in a desperate survival mode. And the social construct
of having people to talk to help save my ass, too. But I wanted to get into the important part of
this. I feel like in your debates, I want to say to the theist, guys, just give the answer. Just
just if there's an answer, just give it. And they do all this stuff around the thing that you guys
are just directly assuming and saying. And it's like, it's hard to describe like, can they not
just answer? Why can't they just give you the thing to directly answer or to directly combat
what you're suggesting? What's going on there? Have you witnessed that? Do you see what I'm talking
about? Yeah, there's a number of different issues there. Some of them are like, even when I'm talking
to atheist philosophers, communication skills is not something many people have. So I was talking
with Alex Malpass and Ozzie, Ozzie, I forget Ozzie Ramsey, something, something the third.
But they're professional philosophers, but they're really bad at talking that they
when they're explaining a point, they take a long time to try and articulate the point. And
it gets lost in all the complicated terminology. So the ability to clearly articulate a point
concisely is very rare among people I've learned from YouTube. And so that's one of the issues
with why they can't get straight to the point. They're just not not good, not skilled enough at
communication. Another is the fact that when they're trying to figure out how to give a
weaker answer, so if they can't give like, well, what is the evidence for the cup? Well, here it is,
it weighs this much, you can see it. And they have to find some other roundabout way to articulate it.
They end up filibustering and bringing up lots of different terms that sound really nice to make
them like the woo doctors on YouTube, you see them talking about, oh, you got to get in touch with
your chi and the universe and the feeling stuff. And we use all these ridiculous words that mean
absolutely nothing like quantum mechanical references, because it makes what they're saying
seem meaningful, because if they say it confidently and say words that are have six syllables in them,
it makes them think they're smart or feel that they're smart and makes the people who don't
know what those terms mean also think they're smart. So that technique is used by Theos,
just like it's used by the crazy guys on YouTube who just talk about woo all the time.
That brings up a great point. Some of these people are very sophisticated that you've
talked with and I've heard them, a lot of them are philosophers or at least study philosophy
pretty deeply. Others that have these credentials and I listen to them speak, I'm like,
dude, it almost sounds like what are they going to school for because they're not learning anything,
it sounds like to me. But I ask you, what are some of the best arguments you've heard on the Theos side
and they come so close maybe, but then you realize that they just did a 180 like right at the end.
Do you have anyone that you've talked to that you're like, you know what, that you're getting
close to something that could make sense, but that's where you make a leap of faith at that point
and you just, you lost me. Yeah, there's two decent arguments that Theos use. One is the
contingency argument. So everything that is contingent has a cause, there has to be some
necessary thing as the foundation of the universe. That makes a lot of sense. That's one of the
big logical possibilities of what caused the universe is a necessary thing. And then they
make the logical jump. Well, that necessary thing is Yahweh, it's a mind, it has intentions,
it created purpose for us. It created Jesus and then made a magical rib woman who was convinced
by a talking snake to eat from a magical tree. They're making these leaps that aren't there. So
I can agree that there's a necessary thing that makes perfect sense. That's definitely one of the
possibilities. But we can't go from that to say what the necessary thing is. Right. And there's
another other argument is that is DNA is a code. The only codes we know ever made by a mind,
therefore DNA is made by a mind. That's actually a reasonable argument. So it's, if we just
discovered DNA yesterday and knew nothing else about it, and it's a really complicated code,
that's a reasonable argument. Like you could infer that maybe that maybe life was made by a
mind. But subsequently, after we discovered it, we've made a lot of testable predictions that
says if it's made by natural processes and a biogenesis, then we should be able to see these
processes occur in natural circumstances like the RNA corpuscles forming on clay and how the bonds
of the nucleotides formed in DNA. And we can see these in the lab. We've demonstrated that we know
that these things are completely explained by a biogenesis because the natural hypotheses made
these predictions that we would see this in the lab. And we did, whereas intelligent science made no
predictions at all. It's almost like the argument they're making is nature itself is God. And of
course, they're not saying that, but the metaphysical behind all of that, some might argue he's in
time and space, some might say or it is in time and space, it is outside of time and space. This
is where I've heard the argument come from inspiring philosophy. And yeah, do I get that correct?
Yeah. And he's debating Matt de la Hunte and he's arguing the mind argument. We have a mind,
minds are there. Therefore, there's probably this greater mind out there
that is made these things. And I've heard his argument with Matt. He's a smart guy. He's a sharp
guy. But where do you see fall in what he's trying to suggest? Do you see him making huge leapser?
Oh, God, he makes unbelievably huge leaps. Inspiring philosophy is a special breed of
apologists. So he's an idealist. He thinks consciousness is fundamental to everything.
There's only consciousness. There's no matter. Matter is just a product of consciousness.
He has a very strange view. And he cherry picks a few academic papers. So he goes a little bit
further than most apologists because most apologists just say, William Lynn Craig said this, we'll go
with that. But IP actually does do the research into his position to find
physicists who support the same ideology he does. There's very very few of them,
extremely few of them. But they do have published papers. And so he finds those published papers
and then builds an entire worldview around those little bits of evidence that he can find to try
and construct a plausible basis for his worldview. And so he goes to a lot of mental gymnastics to
try and build up his worldview and justify it by finding academic papers in every niche place you
can possibly look because it's academics or people just like anybody else. And so you can find
crazy academics who believe crazy things. And you can find a paper to support pretty much
anything you want. That's why we have to defer to the consensus, what are the majority of experts
in the field think about this topic. Whereas he doesn't, he finds those cherry picked papers and
says, aha, I have a really supportive worldview here because I can find these really, really
well educated, well informed people in the field who support my position in like one or two papers
here and there. Why do you think he does that? Do you think it's once again an emotional attachment
to a sacred held belief he is only trying to validate by only finding evidence that supports
his premise and not really trying to poke holes using the scientific method? Yeah, it's the Pine
Creek, the Pine Creek theorem. Apologists do apologetics to, so they have an excuse to not
feel stupid about believing in a God. Interesting. So let me ask you this, the fundamental
thing is either everything existed forever somehow in some shape, some form. This is usually what
people will argue when it comes to atheism. And they'll go, no, the big bang prior to that,
boom, God made it. Okay. I think everything in some way shape or form existed forever. I don't
think there was a time before, using the word time, goodness gracious, be careful when you use that
anachronistic term that we use when the sun rotates or the earth rotates around the sun.
But we see in a 24 hour period, we use the term time. What I'm saying is, is I think that
there was never an initial absolute ex nihilo beginning from everything. There's something
that always was. They want to say God. Do we have better explanations?
Well, a magical potato would be a better explanation than a God. So, yes. But yeah,
the more plausible explanations are starting from where we're at. So what we know exists, matter.
And combining those in every way we can to see if anything that of the stuff we know about could
potentially explain what caused the big bang. And there are theories that do that, like the
cyclic universe theory, the multiverse, the many worlds, emergent space time, there's all kinds of
those theories. And each of those theories, what makes it fundamentally different from religious
belief is that they're all combinations of principles, particles and laws that have already
been verified to exist. So it's like, if you see a horse print in the snow and say, well, what caused
it? So probably a horse. Well, horses, since we already know they exist, it's a decent explanation.
But if you said unicorn, that's, no, there's no reason to believe that unicorn did it because
we've never confirmed a unicorn. So if you have an explanation that's based on or combined of all
the things we already know exist, that's always going to be a better explanation than if you're
inserting something new that has no evidence whatsoever. And so all the physics theories
are significantly better, more plausible explanations of the big bang than the God hypothesis,
which is why the vast majority of cosmologists and physicists don't think God had anything
to do with the big bang, to quote Sean Carroll in this debate with Louie Lynn Craig.
Powerful, man. You put that real well put, and that's where I'm at. I'll say this in simple
dumb, dumb terms, because I don't know all the language and the lingo and all the scientific
stuff that you do, and you're aware of this far more than I am. But to me, it's like,
when I stopped believing in Jesus, one of the things was comparative religion that made me
start to compare my God to other gods. That was the stepping stone I needed to exit because I was
like, hold on, Jesus, why is Jesus true and really performed these things and did these things? But
so and so and so and so and so and so is in and this God and that God, why am I right and they're
wrong? I started to go from that approach out and then I at first, because I couldn't let go of the
idea of God and having an emotional attachment, not knowing where to place that emotion and
realizing there was life after religion, I started to realize that looking at the critics,
like yourself and others, who are saying there's a natural explanation for these things.
And which makes more sense? Something we can look at, observe, test, know, or hocus pocus. And
which one makes more sense is something that can be testable, observable. If it is supernatural,
you know, I'm not going to say it can't be testable because there are ways to, you know,
observe things and say, dude, didn't have an arm for 19 years. We know for a fact he didn't have
an arm and now he has an arm. We could prove things. There's ways that God could show and prove, but
I started to see natural explanations to fit better. And so that's what I started to do.
And I guess my question to you would be, you come from a similar background, I suspect,
the Judeo-Christian worldview. What was your stepping stone? What personally for you started
making you become more and more naturalist and an atheist?
Well, my conversion really didn't have anything to do with science or philosophy. I was, I had
severe depression, major depression my entire life. And I prayed to a God every morning, every night
for help. And after years and years of nothing, I just stopped being able to believe there was this
all-powerful, all-knowing, all-loving being out there. And that's when I really stopped
believing in the God. And it wasn't until years later that I got into philosophy from watching
Hitchens, Harris talking to the Full Horseman and learning about epistemology via them, essentially.
And now, like honest, this is personal, obviously. Are you happier now than you ever were?
No, still major depression, still got the depression, but more hopeful because I have a
moderately successful YouTube channel, which gives me slightly better hopes. Still need a
hot brown girlfriend to make me feel like, yes, I'm gonna be happy now.
Someone to sit next to you on the couch while you're debating?
Yep.
Look, man, I know that's personal. And I really appreciate you answering that question because
I work in a field with mental health and I see it all the time. And most struggling drug addicts
for trying to get clean are religious or think the only way out is a higher power. And what they
define as a higher power is some magic, fairy dust, Yahweh, or some other deity, Jesus, who knows,
to try and get them from ever having to use drugs or alcohol again. And I honestly believe that my
skepticism and becoming a critical thinker and a naturalist, depending on what we can observe,
test, and experience would, you know, I'm not not, let me repeat experience. I don't mean,
you know, people have experiences. That's not what I mean.
If you have the right drugs, you could experience anything.
Trust me, I know all about it. And you probably do too.
Yeah, I'm not saying that. I'm saying things that we can really know. And I like what you said.
You're optimistic because science, I think, will solve some of the problems with mental health
that religion never will. So I'm a big fan of what you do. And thank you for doing that and
saying that. Where do you see us heading? Because it seems like most people are religious and
superstitious. It's been that way for thousands of years. I'm reading a book battling the gods
right now. I think it's Brian or Tim Wittmarsh. And I'm actually going to be interviewing this
guy on the channel. So I can't wait. It's going to be great. He points out that it's very hard
to find atheists in the ancient world, but he does it. And he shows you people who battled the
gods. They refuse to acknowledge these deities as sklepeists. And you name it, all the different
great gods and other worldviews. But mainly the Greeks had more literature that's preserved.
So it's been going on for a long time. Do you see us eventually becoming more atheistic in the future?
Oh, yeah, absolutely. I mean, we're seeing a trend even in, especially in America right now, where
the religious percentages are dropping off and the non-religious are taking over.
And that's not an adoption of hard atheism. They're just not being as religious anymore,
which will then, of course, lead to more hard atheism like in the more Western European countries,
which do have predominantly atheists or non-religious people. But I think it's going to
take a few larger stepping stones, like a few more Darwin's, like we need a Darwin for morality,
because that's essentially the biggest foothold, or the second biggest foothold religion has is
morality. If they can say that we have an objective morality and you don't, then that is
something that they can have an emotional attachment to that gives them a reason to be
religious. And if we can solve that in a secular way, that would be like a Darwin who just came
back and said, no, that idea that all life came from a designer that's dumb, here's a much simpler
explanation and you're done and just crush it. So if we get one more Darwin for morality, that
will essentially put probably the final nail in the coffin for religion. That's a well said.
I think about that myself. And I think humanitarians, people who are secular humanists and such,
they have an attachment to try and help humans in some way. There seems to be an emotional
attachment to just trying to help humans for the sake of helping humans. But this is personal
information. The other day, my wife still struggles with the whole idea of evolution.
And evolution ties a huge role into a lot of today, what we would call atheism, of course,
in understanding how we came to be. And my wife was still like, I don't know, you know,
because we were big in the religion. She never gives a crap, like you said, she's not religious,
but she's not educated in it. So we sat out here in the garage and I turn on some animal channels
with the certain breed of monkeys are doing their thing and people are filming from different
angles observing over weeks or whatever. And they go to war. And there's love and there's sex and
there's everything you can imagine that humans go through and they're fighting and they name them
and they know who the brother and sisters are and all that. She's like, they're acting just like us.
I mean, so it started to make her like, think, hold on, are we like, genetically connected to
these species? Like it didn't dawn on her. I think it's natural to see even religious people do bad
things. And sometimes those moral standards they hold to end up actually being self-defeating,
like priests and others who are molesting children and stuff. So I don't think religions,
morals actually are helping as much as they think they are. What are your thoughts?
Oh, yeah, absolutely. It's actually the more secular nations with a few exceptions like
China are actually more moral and more giving in a lot of ways. But that idea that feeling that you
have this easy to understand objective basis of this God lawgiver out there telling you that you
have this objective standard makes people feel comfortable. Kind of like you mentioned, having
that blanky or stuffed animal when you're a kid, that feeling that it's really easy for human beings
to imagine a big mind out there and to be comforted by having that parent or father figure
who's going to protect you and or have a ground reality for you. And so because you have that
standard, it makes it very easy emotionally to hold on to that idea here. We have an objective
morality because the big sky daddy says so, and that's easy for people to understand. And until
you can find like a an equivalent or better secular model of morality, then that comfort
and feeling is going to play in people's minds as an explanation for something that we haven't
solved yet, just like evolution was back before we understood it or back back how God was an
explanation of the diversity of species before we understood evolution. I mean, if morality,
and I'm going to bring and we I'm sure you're tired of the morality questions and stuff from
theist, but I'm going to speak kind of with you openly as atheists here in the morality ideas.
I'm with you on that. I think morality is going to continue to change, though, the way we evolve as
a society and how we, you know, it's objective in the temporary subjective arena of that society,
if you will. But there's certain things I think we should all draw lines on like murdering.
If we're trying to evolve and become better species, I don't think murdering should ever be
okay. You look at the animal kingdom in the way that, you know, there's a patriarchal system and
the monkey that's at the top ends up having to fight the up-and-coming monkey and he has to kill
him. It's a fight to the death to reign over the tribe. That evolutionary stuff, if you will,
that we carry that we've carried these baggages with us as well. We're trying to evolve past that.
And so I guess what my question would be, what in your personal own life do you think is the
best so far without having a Darwinian philosopher, if you will, trying to explain why we are morality
and how that works in an atheistic worldview? What do you think the best thing for us to do would be
right now? What's your best guess on the morality question with atheists? What do you think we should
do? Well, I think morality is objective. So most philosophers are moral realists, which means they
believe morality is objective and can be true, independent of minds or opinions. And we can do
that without a god. So we don't need a god for that. It's kind of like fitness. Fitness is a
feature of animals. Animals are more fit if they can survive in more environments and that's something
that's true, independent of our opinion, it's objective. And so just like fitness describes
interactions between an animal or organism in its environment, morality describes interactions
between agents in an environment. I think, obviously, we don't have any hard evidence for
morality yet. It's an unsolved problem in philosophy. But it's kind of like a distant
thing we're seeing. We have these feelings that killing people for fun is wrong. We feel that
is called our moral intuitions. And based on these moral intuitions, it's a sensation kind of like if
we see, if we're standing in a desert, in the middle of a desert, we see like a, what looks like
an ocean off in the distance. We can't, we obviously, we're not close enough to see if it's
real and on it could just be a mirage. And so we have to sit back here and try and think, well,
is it real? Is it just a mirage? And we have to like analyze which part of it is,
what should we do? Should we go towards it? Should we not go towards it? And we're doing
the same thing with morality. We all have these feelings of moral intuition that we see off in
the distance that we can't analyze yet. And they're all different. So many people have many
different moral intuitions, just like when people see a mirage, they see like different things in
the mirage, different colors. So it's not always the same. And there's different hypotheses. Maybe
it's just an illusion in our minds, just saying, and not real at all subjective. Or maybe it's a
real thing. Maybe there's really an ocean there. Maybe there's a really immorality there. And
the way to test this, as you'd say, if there's really a morality there, then I'll be able to
predict as we get closer to it, the way it'll appear. So right now it appears a certain way.
And as we get closer to it, it's going to appear a different way. And as we get
right up next to it, it'll appear a different way. And so if we have a model of morality that
can predict the way our moral intuitions are going to change over time and lead to more progress in
the future, then that's a good model that that that's a good basis to conclude that that model
understands reality. So like we see moral progress all throughout human history, women's rights,
gay rights, voting rights, eliminating slavery, it seems like that as time goes on, as a species,
we are trying to make the world a more moral place. And so if we can predict, well, what is that
going to look like in the future 100 years, 500 years, 1000 years? What is the features of what
causes us to move in that direction? If we can predict what's going to happen in the future,
then that's a really good basis to say that this model that's doing the predicting,
like in science, is far better than any other model or like a god model who just says,
it's immoral to eat shellfish. And that's objectively true. It'll never change.
Now that's a good point, actually. And you made me think I've never really thought of it in those
terms. So it's really got me thinking. And right now, I feel like morality is subjective.
But as a system, it's hard for me to pin it down. But I mean, the way you were technical about that
makes me think really heavy. I think it's interesting how society has evolved past the
biblical morality, because that's really the worldview I came from with slavery. I mean,
the recent debate of Dr. Joshua Bowen and Matt Del Hunte with Cliff and his son. Oh my goodness.
I don't know. Yeah. And I don't even know those guys. They're probably great people, man. They're
probably our wonderful guys. I think that morally speaking, murdering people on air like that is
just. Yeah. Matt and shoot. What's his name? Dr. Josh. Dr. Josh. They were horribly immoral.
That was totally immoral. How bad they just massacred us.
Dude, that was a really, really good debate about how slavery was. It was okay to God. It wasn't
something he condemned. And that would have been what we'd expect from someone who knows the future
and knows what's right and wrong. And humanity has a better morality compass than Yahweh at this
point. And that's what's really got me going. Hmm. I wonder where we'll be at in a thousand years
and what we'll try and figure out. I do like that we're continuously using natural means to try and
understand and answer questions. I was watching a show how they're genetically modifying people.
They're figuring out how to go into the embryo and literally find the defective genes and replace
them. And I can't remember the name of this particular thing that they have, but it's getting
scared. Yes. Casper or something. Yeah. What are your thoughts on that as an atheist?
Casper Cas9. That's it. Yes. What do you think? Do you think we're gonna end up one day screwing
ourselves over playing too much with this stuff or what? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, there's,
with every technology, there's always going to be mishaps no matter what necessarily going to be the
case. I don't think it's going to destroy humanity. There's other technologies that are much more
likely to do that, but even those are more likely to benefit humanity than to destroy humanity. So
I think it's going to be a net positive that we're going to be genetically manipulating people to
eliminate diseases. That's a good thing. And I don't think we should really be worried about
the consequences. There are going to be consequences and those are terrible, but just like vaccines,
vaccines can cause side effects and harm people, but the net positive that they provide to society
is significantly better than the negative. Interesting. Interesting. Well, if you were
able to, let's just say you had a chance to hang out with a famous atheist who died of cancer.
What is his name? Hitchens. Hitchens. Yes. I can't even believe I couldn't think of his name.
What would you, what would be the one thing if he was alive right now that you could sit and talk
with him? What would, what would it be that you would want to ask him? I probably just asked him
to give me his favorite bourbon or something. He did appreciate that. Yes. I'm not a real social
person. So that was actually one of those questions. Like they asked that a bunch of times in schools,
in high school, grade school, like who, if you could invite anybody over for dinner,
who would you invite? And I was like, I don't even understand how to answer this question.
Like because I've never enjoyed speaking to people or getting to know people in that way.
I kind of find it boring and not interesting because of my depression. And so I always,
I never felt any desire to really just be around people and hang out. It's something I struggle
with emotionally. And that's why I don't have a big social network. And it's the thing I'm missing
most in life, trying to find people who can help me be more social and meet hot blondes, preferably.
But so that's, that's one of those questions that is very weird for me, because I've never
actually had a desire to really just hang out with somebody that go to dinner and just talk
about stuff. I've always been, it's a strange thing for me. I'm kind of with you. I'm more of a
social guy, of course, but I'm kind of with you in that respect. I do like my own space. I'm a
little introverted. I think over the years that's happened, could be mental health. I don't know.
I've never been diagnosed, but I see that you play video games. So that whole getting lost
into the world of a virtual game, I'm big into that as well myself. But I don't want to take
us there. We're talking atheism, and I don't want to bore our audience. Is atheism a belief system?
It can be. It's dependent on each individual person. As a person, you get to define your
position however you want. You could take the atheist position as to be a belief system that
encompasses many things like humanism or secularism or the positive belief there is no gods.
You, as an individual, get to define your position however you want. So if you define
atheism as a belief system, then that's what it is for you. And if you define it as a lack
of a belief, what that doesn't entail any other beliefs, then that's what it is for you. It's
kind of like the theist. The theist gets to define their position how they want. It's one of these,
the things I, one of the things I dislike about atheists is when they say,
faith is a belief without evidence. I mean, even though that can be true,
if the theist who is the one who has the positions as I define faith as a belief with
some kind of evidence, then they get to tell you that that's their position. And it's
equally as wrong for the atheists to say, no, that's wrong. Faith is a belief without evidence.
As it is for the theist to say, atheism is the belief that there is no god. Like,
you can't tell the other person what they believe. You have to accept their definitions,
even if they're strange definitions, or it's going to straw them in their position. So I think that
atheism can be a belief system just like faith can be a belief with evidence. It just depends on
the person who's using the term to describe their position. So it's better to get past the definitions,
allow them that permission, permission, if you will, to say that they have evidence that they
believe, then challenge the evidence, really, instead of trying to argue over a definition for
800 minutes, you know, it's good to just go, okay, we'll permit you that. Okay, so what's this evidence
and how does that connect with your theism? And so going from there and seeing if it's rational and
if it works is what you're going to do. I love that. A lot of times, theists, and maybe the
atheists are wrong for this too, but I've definitely acknowledged that theists want to, it's almost
like they feel like they got you. And I don't know why. If they did have you admit, oh, it's a belief
system, because they want to make it this thing where you're an atheist because you hate God.
You want to not believe in God. And that's, tell me more about this. Does that frustrate you?
Uh, not really. So I don't really care. I don't really take it personally what their arguments
are. I really don't care. Like if I debate Darth Dawkins and Mr. Batman, like the most crazy,
cringy people alive, but it doesn't bother me at all the approach they take, because I'd see it as
more of a game, like a video game, like you mentioned. So I just sit there and I'm ready for
whatever strategy the theist wants to throw at me. And I just see if I can, how I can handle it. And
it's more of a entertainment value than anything. So I don't really care if they try to misrepresent
my position or anything like that. It's mostly just for entertainment value. I imagine that
if I did take it seriously or take it personally, then it would frustrate me. And I can understand
why many people who are atheists in these debates and are misrepresented by the theist do find it
frustrating because they are trying to identify themselves with some kind of a worldview and
articulate their own personal values and identity to other people. And so being misrepresented in
that context can be very frustrating. I can definitely understand that. But my position is
I really don't my goal is just an entertainment value. So I don't have to I don't have as much
weight in the the conversation where if they misrepresent me, I really just don't care.
Interesting. Wow. Okay. What is the worst debate you've been in with one of those two guys?
No, Jay Dyer was the worst because he just wouldn't stop talking. Like if you can't make a point and
you're just yelling at each other the entire time, that's just it's just pointless. Like
because the point of the debates is really to demonstrate my epistemology because I wrote
an epistemology and model of morality and the whole point of my debating and specifically
debating professors is to demonstrate how effective my epistemology is at the highest academic levels.
But if someone's just going to scream at you the whole time and not let you like present
your arguments or counter their arguments, well, it's kind of just pointless. I saw you debate
an Indian. Maybe he wasn't an Indian. He might have. I think he was a Muslim actually. And he
was trying to argue why the Quran or why this is the true religion. And you were like, okay,
you were having no crap, bro. Like, like, you were so short with this guy. You were like,
okay, listen, I'm going to keep interrupting you. If you don't make a point. You said there's like
four points as to why they stopped alcoholism has dropped in the community. Like, I mean,
like, you know, they started, those are the most black things I've ever heard, man.
Man, those four facts about bees, whoa, blew my mind. Did you know that female bees leave the
hive? Oh my God. And bees, they eat fruit. Therefore, Allah. Yeah, that was the weirdest
connection I've ever heard anyone try to make an argument for God. Like, at least William Lane
Craig is going with some column cosmological argument or someone's trying, they're trying.
Bro, like the refrigerator hums and we've lowered the humming of the refrigerator.
I just don't see how that worked. But in his head, it works. I don't know.
Yeah, it's he has a very unique approach that is at least entertaining.
It's almost like if I can do something that makes people improve their life based on what we think
improving life is, that's evidence for the divine in my view. And it's almost like the
ancients thought the same way. Like if an army conquered us, their God won the war.
Therefore, we probably need to adopt their God. I mean, that was something that was common back
in the day. I could see that. But like, usually it was the other way around. It was more like,
we conquered you guys. Therefore, our God wins. And so if we're you're going to worship our God,
we're going to kill you all. That's true, too. Yeah. Yeah. Or they would adopt the standards
in some sense. But most of the time, unless they were, if they were enslaved, then that would be
something they would do. Just depends on the scenario. How bees prove Allah is, you know,
God, that was weird. I just figured I'd bring that up. What's your favorite all-time atheist
debate you watched? Is there a single one that stands out among all? The William Lynn Craig,
Sean Carroll debate, I think it was the most informative and especially in the topic of
cosmology and debunking William Lynn Craig's arguments. I think that was probably the best one.
Wow. How bad do you think he won on a scale from one to ten? How bad do you think
William Lynn Craig got beat? Ten means slaughtered. One means he punched him a couple of times.
Definitely like a nine. Like the part where William Lynn Craig, he always uses this argument
about the board Gooth, the Lincoln theorem. And then Sean Carroll had a picture of one
of the authors saying, no, William Lynn Craig is wrong about this on screen right after he
said that was just hilarious. That's like a mic drop moment. Sean Carroll was epic in that.
Oh my gosh. Everyone needs to go watch that now. You make me want to watch it. I'm a big
fan of what's going on. I didn't realize when I was a Christian listening to these atheists,
my cognitive dissonance was working hard, bro. Like I was watching William Lynn Craig,
you know, the favorite Ravi Zacharias, you know what I'm saying? All these guys, man,
I like cherished all their works. I listened to them. I bought CDs. I read their books.
Like I was a big fan and I saw how the atheists were wrong. But what the hell happened, man?
I like just a little bit of hard life, a little bit of critical thinking and the scientific method
on saying, you know, is this true? I had a personal painful experience trying to get off drugs. And
that finally came to a conclusion. What if I'm wrong? Just being curious and open-minded gave me
that vision that I can actually observe and go, the atheists actually have a very valid point.
Have I ever seen Yahweh? No. If I did, was I on drugs? I've seen some shit, man. I'm not going
to lie. I've done, you know, things that have made me see things. But I can't act like the brain
doesn't already have these chemicals as well naturally. So whether I took something or not,
people hallucinate all the time. And I hated Richard Dawkins. I mean, like the Christian man who's
like, sir, he's like in the crowd crying to Richard Dawkins, I have met the Lord 54 years of my life.
And he's like, what is wrong? What do you think is wrong? And he's like, I think you're suffering
from a delusion of hallucination. And I'm like, what a dick. Now I'm looking back going, sir,
you're suffering from a hallucination, sir. Like what happened?
Yeah, absolutely. I think Dawkins is absolutely hilarious because he's so terse in the way he
says things like he's not trying to be an asshole. He's just extremely abrupt in the way he talks,
like many people who are extremely intellectual, their social skills are usually not not as
kind and polite. They usually just if they haven't apparently just tell you immediately without any
any padding in there, no beating around the bush. And that's essentially Richard Dawkins,
which is why people think he's an asshole, because he just says immediately what he says,
based on his understanding of biology, which is fairly accurate. So
he's definitely not he's a very nice old man, very kind old man who just comes off as very mean,
because he's very, very terse in what he says. But yeah, it's it's a really interesting phenomenon
that when you are religious, and you look at these arguments, they seem so strong, so iron clad.
And then if you lose your faith, and you come back and really think about them like, oh, wait,
these weren't actually that good. Why did I think they were so good back then? And you
you realize that it was really your inability to question the argument you had such faith in this
God being is being so powerful, that anything that seems to indicate the God being was perfect
and infallible. So there's this infallible argument that indicates the God. And it really would take
the ability to challenge your own beliefs to cause you to really look at them and see the flaws
from the atheist perspective, like even Newton experienced the same thing when he
discovered the cylindrical orbits around the solar system. He said the famous famous quote that
it would be impossible for him to calculate all of the independent orbits using calculus and
must have been done by a God. And then of course, Laplace came back a couple hundred years later
and did exactly that and calculated it just fine. And then went up to Napoleon, Napoleon asked him,
where is your God in this model? And his famous response was, I had no need of that hypothesis.
So everyone is, even the smartest people in the world are subject to that kind of a bias. We have
this unabating faith in this idea of a super powerful God or whatever, that it makes you,
it blinds you from being able to question critically what the next step in the system is,
like as many scientists have said, God stops innovation. Because if you think of God did it,
then you stop looking for the natural solution. That was really well put. Makes me think of
that whole argument you recently said on why people believe in these things, superstitions and
gods, that there was an evolutionary component to us that a lot of, and I can't remember the name
of these guys. I'm horrible with names. He was actually the Richard Dawkins Foundation doing a
presentation explaining why we evolved, believing in things we can't see. And it's just natural to
draw those conclusions and fill the gaps in. And what is that process called? Or what is it that
you were saying in the debate not too long ago with, it was Godless Engineer, you were talking
about how you believe that there is an evolutionary product that kind of gives us that component of
filling in the gaps and explaining what we don't understand with the divine or something fills
that gap. Yeah, Michael Shermer, he used this analogy in I think it was a TED talk. It's that
the reason many of us believe there is a God, the reason that so many humans have a proclivity to
believe in gods and spirits and ghosts and whatever is because we are hyperactive agency
detectors. Like back in the day when we were hunter-gatherer society, if we heard about Russell
in the bushes and we thought, hey, that's probably the wind. It's just a wind. We're going to stay
around. If it was actually a lion, well, then we would get eaten and die. And so that's not very
good strategy. But the people who heard the Russell in the bushes and thought, oh, that's a lion,
even if it was the wind, would run away even if there was a lion or not. And so they would always
think there's this agent there, like an evil lion trying to get us, and they would survive. And so
the groups of people who always thought, oh, look, it's a lion, we should run away, are the ones who
survived and reproduced leading to us. And the ones who were skeptical, the skeptical
atheist types back then thought, it's probably just the wind. I'm going to wait for more evidence.
Well, they got eaten, so they're not with us anymore. And so we have evolved this
hyperactive agency detector of thinking that everything we can't understand,
it must have some kind of a mind behind it. And that's why religious belief and spiritual beliefs
and monsters under the bed and imaginary friends and blankies that we can hold, that's why those
things give us all this comfort is because of that evolutionary advantage that was given to the
people who saw Russell in the bushes. Oh, it's a mind runaway. And that's the basis of all of our
superstitious beliefs. Damn. That's a good point. That's a real good point. I was reading Job from
the Bible yesterday to my sister-in-law because I don't know why I feel like it's a mission of mine
to kind of point some stuff out to her as a fundamentalist Christian, but she listens. I
give her that. And I was reading about Job when God comes out and pretty much says,
my junk is bigger than your junk. And that's really what Job comes down to. Job didn't do
anything wrong. He just said he didn't want to be born. He wished he wasn't born. He had to suffer
all the stuff. God comes out of the whirlwind and he's like, who is this that darkens counsel with
words? Grab your loins like a man and get ready to answer me. It sounds like a dictator came out
of the whirlwind and he starts flexing on Job. Do you make the lightning in the cloud? You know,
all these things. And I'm thinking to myself, like these natural explanations, whoever the
author of Job was, they're all thinking these beyond us agents, lightning is probably an agent to
them. Volcanoes are an agent. They don't have a natural system in place where they understand
how these things work. They have to say the divine. They give that attribute, the divine.
And the more we've learned scientifically, we've been able to resolve those problems naturally
without having to give that to the boogeyman or give that to Satan or give that to Yahweh or other
gods, et cetera, et cetera. Would you like to add to that? Yeah, that's I mean, that's absolutely
right is that the idea that those things are where God's punishing us like lightning hitting
somebody think, oh, he must have pissed off the God to get him the lightning bolt and more
Pompeii getting zapped by the volcano. Oh, they must have done something to piss off the gods.
People would always explain any like catastrophic events, tsunamis, hurricanes, tornadoes.
That's even even in recent times, there were some like Republican candidates who thought
the tsunamis were punishments for America allowing homosexuality. They said that on
many news anchors all the time. So this idea that we can do things to piss off the gods and the
gods are going to use the natural forces to destroy us is a really common idea, even though
it's extremely stupid. Because if there was a God, he could do the Pine Creek, he could just
poof us out of existence. Why is he drowning us? Why is he zapping us with lightning? This doesn't
make any sense. Apparently, the God just likes using the world to destroy us instead of his magical
powers. So he uses them indirectly, apparently. He's not going to make a wand, do Avada Kedava.
No, no, he's going to use a tornado. That's a genius way to do it.
Well, I think that could, and using Pine Creek's method, we could really poke a serious hole at
the theist to try to argue, well, he uses natural means. Not always. There's a story where David,
and there's differing stories between Samuel and Chronicles in the situation that Yahweh,
you know, tempted him to number the children of Israel or Satan. And some people, Christians,
there's a lot of Marcianite type Christians. And I thought that episode was great with
Doug, where he talks about this. The Marcianite guy was like, look, Yahweh is Satan, is exactly
what Marcianite, you know, believed. And that Jesus, his father was a different one. He's the
true God because he's all loving and he doesn't do what Yahweh did. Well, in that story, he numbers
the children of Israel sinning against God because he didn't trust in God,
instead he wanted to count his men to make sure that he's got enough guys for battle.
And the angel of the Lord comes and strikes them. Now, what that means is up for dispute. Is this
plague that hit, you know, Israel? Is that what they're trying to say? It seems there are places,
though, where they're able to see angels, fiery people with swords and shields in the mountains.
I mean, even Josephus seems to sound like, well, when 70 AD came and Romans were in conquering
Jerusalem, I saw angels in the heavens. I saw soldiers with shields and swords, and they were
ready to fight battling in the heavens. To me, it's like, why don't we see any of that? None of
that ever happens. And that started to strengthen my skepticism, which leads me to more conclusions
on saying the probability of a God not existing is very low. In fact, I want to ask you, because you
have a different conclusion in terms of the strength of your atheism, say, versus Godless
Engineer. It sounded like Godless Engineer is more soft. You have more of a harder atheism,
and you think you stand harder on it than he does. Well, in that debate, we have a very similar
position. In that debate, I was taking the hard atheist position for the sake of the argument,
so that the theists could address either version of atheism, because the debate was whether
atheism was rational or something like that. And if me and Godless Engineer both took the
lack-theism definition, but the atheists were taking the hard atheist definition, which is what
they did and what most theists do, then it would cause just, we'd be debating definitions for an
hour, like you mentioned, that's extremely boring. So I decided, I'll take the strong
atheist position. I'll say God definitely does not exist for the sake of the argument,
even though I'm more of a methodological atheist, much like Godless Engineer, I think that
I don't usually make claims about what does or doesn't exist fundamentally. I just do claim,
what is the epistemic basis of our evidence? And then that's the, that's really what matters,
not really the claims about what really truly exists. So I usually take something similar
to Godless Engineer, but yeah, you can definitely justify the belief that God definitely does not
exist, which is what many of the atheist philosophers take, like Alex Malpass, Ozzy,
those kind of guys, grandma, they're like strong atheists who like God does not exist.
And the way you do that, as you can say, there's lots of contradictions in the properties of God,
and the way I do it, as I say, if you don't have any evidence that the thing exists independent
of our imagination, then it's reasonable to conclude that that thing is only imaginary,
it's only in our heads. And if there's no way to show that that thing is true independent of our
imagination, then it's perfectly fine to just say it's purely imaginary and it doesn't exist.
That's interesting. I know a lot of people will try to straw man you on hard atheism. And so,
yeah, I do appreciate you responding to that because I didn't know exactly where you stood on
that. So hard atheism, they'll say isn't, it's not a rational conclusion because you can't,
you can't be certain that God doesn't exist. Now, can you dispel that fluff that they're
putting up right there? Yeah, you don't need certainty for knowledge. So no one says that,
well, if you're not certain, well, then you don't know. Like that's not a thing in philosophy or
science. The consensus position is called fallibilism. Fallibilism is the position that you don't
need certainty for knowledge. So like we can know we're not in the matrix, we can know we're not a
brain in the vet because the, the, we have justification, we have justificatory evidence
that this is the real world based off our interactions with it, based off the test of
the predictions we can make given the hypothesis that the world is real. Even though it doesn't
give us certainty, it does give us justification and knowledge is a justified true belief. So as
long as you have a belief and it's justified and it happens to be true, then you have knowledge
even if the justification isn't certain. Two more things. And then I'm going to let you go here
because I really do enjoy listening to you debate other people. Of course, this is just a
discussion about atheism. And I'm really wanting to like probe out of you some ideas here. Number
one, I'm interviewing Jesus next week sometime. There's a guy in Australia who says he's Jesus.
And so I'm going to interview him. I'm going to be super nice. I'm not, I'm not going to do
epistemological challenging, you know, things like that. I am going to ask some questions up front
to get the initial interview going. But then I'm going to just pretend that he's Jesus and ask him
questions and probe into his mind. Okay. Do you have a comment you'd like to make on that?
Yeah, that would be definitely be interesting to see what questions you could ask him. Like,
what would he do? What would he do if there's that the revelation part where Jesus or the world's
going to be perfect for a thousand years or whatever? I'd ask, what is he going to do to make
the world of that? Like, what are the things that he's going to change about the world? And then
I'd say if he could compare it to my, my model at the best of all possible worlds and see which
one's better, see if I'm, I know more about morality than Jesus does, that would be an interesting test.
Interesting. Yeah, I'm excited to ask him. I think he thinks some of the books aren't accurate in
their mythology. He admits the Bible's not like he admits it's been tampered with and it's not
right, which will be interesting to get him to this. He believes he's the second coming of Jesus.
He's actually a really nice guy. You'd be shocked if you were talking to him, but I think,
personally, I mean, this is not being derogatory, but I think he's delusional. I do, and I think a
lot of people are. Don't get me wrong. I don't mean that in a bad way. Yeah, I think there's been
about a thousand second comings of Jesus so far. Wow. I didn't know that. Yeah, there's
just one guy in Russian, Baderian, Visarian, something. Yeah, I'm trying to get him on too.
You'd be hilarious to have one. I think he got arrested recently, though, from Russia,
because they don't play games over there. So that would be cool to get on. Last question I have,
it's going to boil down to this. I saw a debate with Matt De La Hunte and Michael O'Connor.
Michael O'Connor had a really good debate with him. They couldn't get past this one part, and you
know, Matt gets frustrated when he has to repeat stuff sometimes. I don't know if I would have
answered the same way Matt was answering it, but maybe I could be wrong. I want your response on
this. Maybe you can give me your two cents. What would it take for you to believe? Matt kept fighting
Michael O'Connor on this, and he's like, what would it take? Jesus appears to you. What would it
take for you to change your mind and say, okay, I believe that there's a God, and not only do I
believe there's a God, I believe it's Jesus right here. What would it take for you personally
to finally to conclude that? Yeah, that's actually a really interesting question,
because it has two parts to it. The first thing is, what would it take for you personally to
believe? That's a really hard question to answer, because if you saw God write his name in the sky,
would you actually believe that was a God? You don't know, it could go either way,
because you're trying to assess your beliefs and your past evidence and how it affects you at the
time period. It's really hard to answer what's going to cause you personally to change your
belief system. But the question that theists are really asking there is, would it be reasonable
for someone to believe if something happened? Give me an example of something that would make it
reasonable for someone to believe a God is real, because what they're trying to do is,
they're trying to conflate the idea that if you can't give an answer to what would convince you,
therefore, there's nothing that could ever convince you. That's their claim, which is obviously
wrong. That's not the thing. That's not what Matt is saying. Matt is just saying, he doesn't
unknow that if something had happened, that it would convince him personally, because that's
the honest answer. You don't really know what would convince you personally. But
they want to imply that because you can't answer that question. That's impossible,
that there's nothing in your worldview or your epistemology would allow for evidence of God,
and that's wrong. I think even Matt would admit that is wrong. And so the two questions or the
two answers from my perspective is, what would actually convince me would be essentially hot
blondes. If I prayed to God and got hot blondes, I would pray to Jesus. I would convert the flat
earth if that works. I don't care. But honestly, what would make it reasonable to believe in the
God? Well, that would just be like any kind of novel textual prediction that we hold science
the standard to. So if you could pray to a God and he would heal limbs at a higher rate of chance,
that's a good reason to believe that there's probably a God. If you could pray to God and
you give you a gold rick, a higher rate of chance, that's a good reason to believe in God. There are
definitely prayer studies that if they came out as having a significant positive impact,
that would be good evidence that there's probably a God out there. So there's lots of ways that we
could show there is evidence of a God. But it becomes more complicated when you try to answer
the question of what would personally convince you. Theists shouldn't ask that question. They
should ask the question about what would be reasonable. If something happened, what would
make it reasonable for a person to believe? Right. And I'll give you mine. My great grandfather,
or actually my grandfather, my father's side is dead over a year and a half. If he came back
from the dead right now and literally showed up at the house and was, hey, I'm back. And he came
back and I knew this was him, that would give me very, very good reason to say, you know what? I
do think there's something here. And how is this? Where were you? What did you see? That would be
quite interesting. I don't know. What about you? I don't know if that worked because he might have
had a twin brother you just didn't know about, or maybe he just faked his own death to troll everyone
because he got tired of you. He's like, nope, I'm done with this. I want to fake my own death and
just hide. So for me, it requires novel test of prediction. So it couldn't just be something I
couldn't explain, like someone coming back from the dead. It would have to be like, if my God is
real, then we can do this experiment to get this result. So if I could pray to God for my dead
grandparents to return from the grave, and they did, that would be good evidence. But just in
returning randomly, I'd probably be like, I don't know. This is a little fishy.
Good point. Good point. So now you're getting more specific about requirements that would make more
sense to be able to rationalize and say, okay, it's inevitable. I mean, the statistics and the
probability that this happened by chance, right after I said this, and he's doing what is practically
impossible, you know, I might as well at this point, just drop my atheism and recognize, hey,
there's a God, and this is probably the God of the world or whatever, you know. But yeah, no,
I'm with you. That's quite interesting. You answered it in a good way that I had not had a
response about Matt's response to Mike Lacona, but it makes sense what you're trying to say. So I
appreciate that, man. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. Ladies and gentlemen, T-Jump. He got all these
answers from his chair behind him, but he pleads the fifth. You guys know he's bullsh. You know it's
not true. You know he gets it from the chair. Look, I'm going to say some prayers about some
blondes for you when we get off of here. And I do appreciate you joining me, man, for real.
Yeah, absolutely. Always great having on. I appreciate the invite, as always. And I'm
still jealous of your hair. Can I like shave it off and steal it? I'm just like, get it to pay.
Just here you go, bro. Make sure you guys subscribe to his channel. He's trying to grow
this channel, and it helps his mental health. Do you want him to go mentally insane? Come on,
you guys need to help him. Every like and every comment and every subscriber adds strength to
progressively getting better in his mental health, okay? We need to get him as many people as possible
to go over there and join. But seriously, the debates are amazing. The content is wonderful.
And you get to hear someone who's like battling on the forefront. You're not just battling top
names. You're challenging guys that anyone who's willing to come out and debate that's
knows how to speak a language that is comprehensible to some degree with you, right?
Most part. There's a few that don't fit that category.
So you're willing to fall for it. You're willing to debate almost anything. Like,
I could bring a log in here and just set up a, you know, and you could argue with this thing.
You think you'd win? Yeah, I have an open offer on my channel, $50 for anybody to debate me on
anything. Like if you just pay me $50, I'll debate you on whatever you want.
Interesting. Take him up on that debate, ladies and gentlemen. He has a discord. He's got a
patron. You guys can help him out. Of course, that always helps us. I know some people who
can't stand when we plug stuff like that. They act like, Oh, that's all you care about. Well, no,
we're just trying to do this full time. We want to be able to not only survive, surviving sounds
like a struggle, thrive. We want to make it and go places. And I could see you honestly moving
into larger auditoriums, doing big stuff, because you've already been debating publicly
in forums and not just online. So I could see you doing more.
Yeah, I did. So far, I've done three live debates, four or five, actually. And I've got one more in
a week in Georgia, two live events in a week and four in Georgia.
Do you feel this? I know I'm not supposed to ask any more questions, but do you feel like
you've lost any debates? I guess you're wrong. But like, yeah, just yeah.
So like the one with GE, he's extremely well versed on mythicism, where I'm not as not nearly
as well-versed. So I think he won that one, for sure. I probably lost the one with the 9-11 one,
because I didn't have as much background information as the guy who was debating against you. He was
more well-versed on that topic. Probably my one with vows too, because I was super tired and
didn't have the intellectual capacity to debate that day, because I was about 20-something hours
not sleeping. So those are some of the debates I probably lost. I can say I lost those debates.
Okay. Well, I appreciate it, man. Thanks so much, T-Jump. And ladies and gentlemen, never forget,
we are MythVision.
I have hundreds of videos on the Patreon, become a patron, and get early access to everything I
ever launched. Join the Twitter. I've got a Discord chat room. You guys can help grow the community.
One-time PayPal or Cash App. If you want to help us out with a donation,
and join our Facebook groups, man, let's make this thing happen.
