So if he's right and Jason Badoon is right, 70% of what we think is authentic Paul is not, it's not Paul.
That's some dude pretending to be Paul, writing under the guise of Paul. Right?
If, if, if Badoon and Vincent are right, then people like Bart Ehrman are reading or James Tabor are reading Paul's letters
in their form that comes from around the 140s and treating that as if it comes from the 50s.
They're a hundred years off. Right. You know, and they're getting, and they're treating 100% of this
Paulian content as if it's Paul when only 30% is. Well, hello, everyone. Welcome to another live stream
of History Valley. And today I'm joined by Derek Lambert from MythVision and Dr. Mark G. Bilby.
And today we'll be discussing how the digital age is transforming scholarship. The pros and the cons of
that and the cons has to do with more issues with platforming, perhaps on certain websites
and what the implications of that might be. And we'll take it from there. So thank you both for
joining me today. Can't wait to discuss this. Thank you, Jacob. I really appreciate you, man.
Of course. Thanks for having the conversation, Jacob.
So V, I want to start with this question to Mark and then we take off from there.
How exactly is the digital age transforming new testament scholarship today?
I think you guys are at the front lines of it. There's a lot of, you know, there's a lot of work
that's gone on for the last 20 or 30 years in New Testament studies using technology,
the Q project had databases that it created teams out of Pontifical Biblical Institute or
University of Pennsylvania, they created digital editions of the New Testament back in the 90s
and did, you know, massive like analysis, turning them into like lemmas, like the root words and
part of speech tagging and all that. But now that's that's happening on a massive scale, right?
There's there are huge projects to like transform the primary sources into really rich digital
editions around the world. I don't know if you've heard about the project, but there's one called
the universal dependencies project. And the idea is to richly tag all language, all historical
language samples, and then be able to tie those things together. And and programs like chat GPT,
the large language models, they use that this deeply interconnected multilingual data that's
connected on, you know, terms like this term means this term, but also on syntactic the
syntactical level, like the structure of language. And that allows these large language models to
perform in a much higher level. So there's a ton of stuff going on behind the scenes. Not all of it
is in New Testament studies as as such. But but you know, and New Testament studies, you know,
lags behind a lot of, you know, the technological innovations that are going on in computer science
and these sorts of areas. And how does this make a scholastic work on the New Testament more easily
accessible to people if you could elaborate on that? Yeah, well, right now, honestly, the the
the main issue is a lack of accessibility. And again, I think that's where the work you guys are
doing is so important, because it's open. A lot of religious studies publications are not open,
and they're not affordable. You know, if you publish with the premier academic presses, and
many of your guests have done that, those volumes are often available only in print. And they often
cost two or 300 or more dollars, you guys have probably seen this with your guests, like sometimes
it's just not affordable to get access to certain books. So and I encourage them. And I know that
this is like a lot to ask, but I encourage all the academics who only have their publications
through these scholarly presses, whatever it may be, like Rutledge or you name it, to write a
popular level book outside of it. And I know that they're like, Oh, man, there's some clout, there's
almost like a social clout that comes with it, that I don't know about, because it's not my
experience. I didn't go through the rigorous avenues that they do and have a certain persona
they need to carry. But I tell them that because there are there's a lot of income, first of all,
that they can make that is going to help them. But it also is kind of not affordable. Get us a
$25 book and I can sell you 1000 of them from 1000 fans that'll love you more than 90% of
your students that sat at your feet at these institutions, or we can sell you five to 10
at $100 a piece. They're selling the libraries. That's what's ended up happening.
That's right. That's exactly right. What ends up happening? I worked in libraries for eight years.
And so I know behind the scenes how the economics of publishing works and on the publishing side.
And most academic books have very minimal print circulation. And then they get scooped up in these
digital packages. But even those have very restrictive rights about who can read them.
So, you know, somebody like me went with my dissertation at UVA. It took me years to do
that research, write it, got it published with the prestigious academic press, University of
Strasbourg, old, very prestigious university in Europe, and yet probably altogether 500 copies
of it were printed. Most of those are purchased by libraries. And then, you know, for academics,
it's a good book. But in terms of broader readership, it's very limited. And people,
you know, in many parts of the world, they can't afford, you know, it's $55. But even that's beyond
the means of a lot of people around the world. So one thing I did, I was in my previous job,
I was an open access advocate, I worked with an organization called Unglueit. And so their job is
to flip individual books. So you can take any book. So I did this with that particular book by
University of Strasbourg, which was printed, published by a press called Brepples, which is a
very, you know, prestigious old publisher and religious studies. But we basically ran a campaign.
We got a pre-agreed amount. So it was like $3,500 that Brepples would get if we raised that money.
And then the book would become open access and digital. So, you know, essentially with $3,500
with a group of people pooling their money, you know, it's through donations, like friends of mine,
I donated some. But by putting together $3,500 and working with Unglueit, we were able to take a
book that would be beyond the price of most people and then make it free and open for the whole world.
Right. So more and more presses are doing this, like UC Press, MIT Press,
they have massive open access. Rice is doing this. Rice University has a movement called Open Stacks.
So they're publishing open content. But most religious studies publishers are not and they're
not keeping up. At the same time, some religious, you know, DeGroeter is a big religious studies
publisher. They just scooped up a press called Ubiquiti Press that published somewhere in the
neighborhood of 100 academic journals, all open access. So the big publishers, the Elseviers,
the Springers, they're buying up a lot of these smaller open access presses because they see
that's where things are going. There's massive open science movements happening in the U.S.
and in Europe where the public to, you know, you get Gates Foundation money, you have to publish
that openly. But in religious studies, we don't depend on the big grant funders for our research,
you know, or the government for our research funding. So often we don't have those same
requirements. And so we live in this little bubble, you know, in religious studies publishing,
where we're just not, we're not participating in these larger open access, open science
movements and trends. And that just means that we're stunted, like religious studies
publishing is stunted. And that's where you guys are like catalysts and change agents and disruptors
to actually to change the economics of religious studies publishing for the better.
You know, like there's people like Bart Ehrman, they can make a lot of money in mass market
publishing. But then 99% of academics like Richard Miller, you know, you just interviewed,
you know, those great interviews, like his book published by prestigious press, like,
what was the print circulation of that book? Exactly. Maybe a few thousand before you started
highlighting him. Now that you have highlighted him, my guess is that the demand for that book,
both print and digital just went way up. Yeah, I'm with you. And look, you know, getting into my
philosophy or kind of my motivation, like, why do you do this, Derek? I started this and I'm sure
that, well, Jacob knows this, Jacob knows this. We, I'm going to call it going back to our fringe
days, right, Jacob? We were interviewing, like, Jesus was the son, the grandson of Julius Caesar.
I mean, like we were doing anything and everything and just kind of like into conspiracies and just,
you know, French stuff. And what we've done is we've become more almost like formed into students
of academia through this avenue of interviewing these amazing brilliant scholars who are convincing
in their, in their rhetoric, in their, in their argumentation and the evidence they're presenting.
They don't agree with each other, which is also really cool because we're actually getting,
I feel like we're getting front row C access better than, like, you're going to get much more,
I'd say, personal information if you were actually at the feet of some of these scholars.
But like, if I had listened to Bart Ehrman, and then I can go and listen to M.D.Lewin,
then I can go and listen to Richard C. Millen, then Elaine Pagels, and then Paula Fredrickson,
and then the list goes on. You know, how often are students in these, these institutions
actually getting that balanced critique of all the different amazing scholars right there?
The people viewing it online are getting the greatest access. Yes, they're not going as deep.
They're not getting into necessarily the sources as often. I mean, they go as far as probably some
of them as we present. So if we present a source, they're going that far. Some might go a little
further. But back to the motivation and philosophy to simply put, I, here's my little faith. I really
believe that if more people on planet Earth actually were educated on material like this,
classics, you know, humanities, science, everything across the board, religious studies,
you name it, a lot less hate, a lot less BS that we see going on in the world.
And I told this to my mom, like the way we, we have these us first, them kind of boundaries,
we would be more sophisticated and expand our borders. This is just my, my two cents. So
I think we're doing humanity a big service, but it all started with like me, Colin Jacob,
after I got done working construction all day. Hey, bro, you want to do an interview? I'm tired,
but let's talk about that weird book that guy wrote. And then we talked about it. Eventually,
it became a life of its own. And now we don't even have control over, I mean, we do, but we don't,
you know? Yeah, yeah. What you just talked about reminds me of like medieval university education,
right? The idea of the university is that it is universal, right? That it's a community that's
all inclusive for people to go from city to city. And you would be able to study universal language,
universal, you know, the universe of languages, universe of knowledge. And so it was an ideal,
like in the Middle Ages and up to the 19th and even early 20th century for students to go from
university to university, you know, spend, spend a semester here, spend a year there, then go and
spend a semester over there and go under the tutelage of that professor, right? And we become
more insular and isolated in academics in the last 50, 60, 70 years. But if you look at a lot of
the greats from 100 years ago, 200 years ago, they were at many different universities. And what
you guys are getting and what you guys are in some ways making possible is this kind of
global university kind of education, honestly, that is beyond what anybody will get by going to
any single university. Like I recently came across Richard C. Miller just to kind of highlight
something interesting. Yeah. You go online and the biggest proponent against mythicism, for example,
would be Bart Ehrman. He's the most well-sold books, outspoken. Every Christian uses him,
of course, because he's an atheist who then shows Jesus existed. And while one might agree
with him on that, I tend to agree there was a guy. What he really did said, etc., those are
different questions. But the argument is Richard C. Miller called it argumentum ad bartum.
And so it's like, that's cool. Learn what Bart says. I do not discourage anyone. I really,
I work for Bart. I mean, I'm a subcontractor for his courses and his podcasts and all that.
But like, I encourage everyone to learn from Bart. But I also talk to Bart's students.
And David Lillo was one of them. Ian Mills was one of them. Ian Mills lives north of
me here in Washington state. And I plan on linking up with him again. And I ask him,
hey, is Bart outdated on some of his stuff? He goes very outdated on several things. And then on
some things, he's up to speed on. But there's some things he's just dated on. And this is his
own students who were literally right there under him, who got to see that, okay, we've learned some
things in the last 20, 30 years. And that's why I encourage people to do it is, you know, to keep
hearing different arguments and not see an idol figure in their life. Oh, this is the man. He
has all the answers or the woman who has all the answers. No, like, it's all a learning process
and we can continue to grow together. I completely agree. Yeah, Richard and I talk about that on
the phone as well. Just like the idea like Bart Ehrman is kind of the unelected president
of New Testament studies. And he tends to, whether he wants to reinforce this or not,
other people tend to cite him. And then that's it. There doesn't needs to be any Bart said it
enough said hallelujah. Yeah, yeah. And for academics, you know, like I mentioned this
with Richard, one of my academic specialties is the good thief, the thief on the cross,
and how that story has been interpreted through the century. So I've spent literally a decade of
my life researching that story and how it's been interpreted and various apocrypha, like legends
about it. So if you go to Wikipedia today and you look up Dismas or the good thief, you'll find
Bart Ehrman cited twice, because he's written a chapter, right? And or he might mention the
good thief once. You'll never find it. You won't find any of my like extensive, well, you know,
yeah. And that's just that's that's the problem we're dealing with here in academics is you have
name recognition. And then that kind of overshadows. Yep, that's the problem. What you guys are doing
is surfacing people who are making important contributions to scholarship and whose voices
need to be heard. And you're diverse, you're helping to diversify the discourse in really
important ways. There's two things we can't do way more. But I want to aim in that and just say
Jacob and me, this is the problem we ran into Mark is so we love the big guys, the big girls,
we want to interview them, they help get attention, they help grow. But I have said from day one,
which is why I'm doing my courses, my MVP courses, I do my courses to help get the little guy, the
little girl, the clout they deserve the hard work that they've done that gets buried by the popular
names. It's almost like I said this the other day on a on an episode with Richard Miller, I don't
know if I published it on Patreon yet, but it was like, pretty much how Christianity buried,
how important the Caesars really were. I mean, you got to become a classicist and really dig
beneath the Christianity to see how significant these figures were that they've many popular
people have buried kind of the more serious, rigorous specialist in their particular subject.
And they know how to pick those specialists, quote them or use some of their their words,
make a popular level book and then boom, you never heard about the person that they're using
in order to get that workout. So Jacob's been doing a great job on even better than I have,
actually, on getting a much wider variety. I've been cautious because personally, I don't know
if Jacob's able to read a million books in a week. I don't want to go in unless I've read
some of their work, because I really want to be informed on whatever they they have before I do
it. He's immersed in all this material all the time. So I don't know if he needs to even,
you know, read it before he goes into the conversation. But we're doing two things differently.
But I think we're accomplishing the same goal.
I like to interview scholars that have just like you do with different opinions like, okay,
does Q exist? Does Q not exist? Which order of the Gospels do you think?
Do you think it goes like recently I had Thomas Longstaff on and he goes with a Grisbach hypothesis
thinks it goes from Matthew Luke Mark. I know that most scholars would disagree with that order
of literary dependence. But I find it fascinating to interview different scholars with different
vastly different opinions on how to solve the synoptic problem, because I think it's important
to know all of their positions. And I think that the only position I haven't interviewed yet,
because I don't I don't think I don't think there's any scar right now that believes that
is a Johanna in priority. But I know that there was a couple in the past that believe that
but I've had people that have that thing that Matthew was first people. Most I think that Mark is
first. And one person in particular that thinks Luke Luke was first. And that's Brad Young,
the Jerusalem school theory.
See, you're doing that you're specializing Jacob in the synoptic problem in a different way than I
do. I'm like, I'm a fascinated like I'm fascinated with the whole legendary comparison and using
heuristic approaches to seeing all of the legendary material. That really interests me. Richard
Miller's book, you can tell, obviously, Mark knows, sucked me in, seeing apotheosis translation
fables and comparing them and saying, Whoa, what's going on with Caesar and Jesus here?
And you do too, don't get me wrong, you do all that and more, you just like to specialize on the
synoptic configuration on what came first and how does it impact and in fact, and I guess the
reason I have it really is I hear guys like John Kloppenborg and then I hear guys like Dennis R.
McDonald with papious plus and then or Q plus papious and then I hear, you know, Mark Goodacre
come on with his far and then I hear and like all of them out with me a billion to one in like,
and I'm going and they, they all are like really confident in their conclusions and then I'm going
like, I will maybe when I get really interested in diving down that rabbit hole myself, I'll like
have this weird year where I'm into the synoptic problem, but I tend to almost give up before I
go too, too deep and dwell too much on it because I'm going, how if these brilliant geniuses literally
are dealing with the same problem and they come to radically different kind of positions
on Q, what Q is, who came first? Did Luke and Matthew both know each other? Did they not know
each other too sourced? Is it this and I'm like, I'm going to just try to tackle fundamentalism
right now and get, you know. Do you know about the multi-redactional hypothesis regarding Q?
Like there's a diagram in John Kloppenborg's book excavating Q. It's a very fascinating diagram
because, and there's like different variations of the diagram. It gives it the same page,
but it starts with Aramaic Q, then it gets translated into a Greek Q. Then there's two
different Q's, Q Matt and Q LK, Q Luke, two different, two, two different Q documents for
adapting the Greek Q, which is the hypothetical translation of the Aramaic Q. And then Luke
borrows from Q Luke and Matthew borrows from Q Matt. Of course, well that kind of sounds like what
Bart Ehrman does. Bart Ehrman argues there's an L source, there's a M source, there's a,
and like there's specific material that you get here. And look, I don't know. I like to be honest
with you, I don't know. And I'm going to go with where I feel I have more certitude at the moment.
I'm kind of following my heart and my gut. And the biggest hiccup I see is like, I don't know if
you relate to me. I know Jacob does, but Mark is, I'm looking and I think there's so much,
there's so many people who are with huge YouTube channels that we're kind of in competition with
who are peddling the idea that Jesus was unique. There was nothing like him. There is no comparison.
And like any historical research, not theological, not faith driven, but historical research
really shoots that down really quickly. And I'm not saying that there aren't unique aspects.
I'm not saying there aren't unique things. Every religion has unique attributes, characteristics,
et cetera. But that this is not wholly like popped out of nowhere with an insulated bubble,
as if this was not built by the fabric in the zeitgeist or milieu in which it came up,
Greek, Roman, Jewish development from its origins. So I'm into like, what kind of solid data I can
do with like comparing linguistics and saying all of that. That's fun. But I got to get more
cup of coffee to like even dive into the whole thing. It's like, it's too much for me right now.
And never thing that I find very interesting is the multi-source theory. And that's the idea that
Matthew, Mark, and Luke are independently reworking sources. And in that theory,
which was a possibility by the scholars like a Boysmart and Burkett and others,
they think that if you look at Matthew and you look at Mark, you're like Luke. And this is a
more complex solution. It's not the problem. That suggests that if you look at Mark in many cases,
he has more elaborations in his gospel than with Matthew and Luke, like the feeding of the pigs.
The whole deal about the pigs, driving demons out and Mark, it's number 2000 pigs.
But if you look at Luke's version of that story, and Matthew's version, now Matthew's
version is a bit different. Luke and Mark are more similar. But what's missing from Matthew and Luke
is the 2000. The number 2000 is not there. But that's just in Mark. And sometimes you'll have
unique material. Mark disperses some of his unique material throughout his gospel,
not necessarily isolated in one chapter. He puts sprinkles of it like salt and pepper and a little
bit over here and a little bit over there. It's like buttering your sandwich. And in this case,
Matthew and Luke are barring from Mark. They think that basically we have a problem.
They're asking me to believe that he did the very difficult work of removing the butter from the
sandwich. And Matthew and Luke surgically removed the unique material in Mark. Because sometimes
Mark will appear to agree with Matthew. Matthew's wording, then he shifts to to agree with Luke.
And this really gets into the Grisbeck stuff. Because the Grisbeckian scholars will say, oh,
that's the conflation of, obviously, they'll say that's evidence that Mark knew Matthew and Luke.
But in this situation, Mark would be familiar with Matthew Luke's sources or event with
Matthew and Luke directly. You see, you see what happened there, Mark. If I can step back,
actually, for a second, this actually relates to the theme of the topic. How does or can digital
the digital age transform scholarship? Well, guess what? Like Google Scholar,
you know, I met I met with the guy who founded Google Scholar. He was a specialist in voice
detection and being able to tell voices apart. Google Scholar can tell your voice, Jacob's voice
apart. If even if you contribute 100 words or a few hundred words to a publication,
they can detect your voice because your voice has signals that are unique to you. The way you
formulate sentences, the words that you use. So this is happening all over the place. Google
Scholar, they're not doing this. It's not like there's a dude somewhere working at Google who's
saying like these 30 people, right? Because a lot of people have the same names, the same last names.
You might get hundreds of people on a physics publication. How do they keep all those people
straight? You can use unique identifiers called orchids, which are common now in publishing.
But Google can actually tell our voices apart because they know all of our voices that well.
They can trace the distinctive signals, cluster them, and show that they're disproportionately
present or clustered within our communications. So the big tech companies, they figured this
stuff out more than 10 years ago about how to tell voices apart. Again, this is where New
Testament Scholarship is completely lacking. And, you know, this goes actually to your main,
you know, themes. You guys are about debunking myths or exposing myths or just bringing myths
into the conversation that we're dealing with, borrowing of myths and broader cross cultural
myths. Well, the biggest myths that are operational in New Testament studies are that four dudes
wrote the Gospels. That is a myth. And it's only once you debunk that myth that you can start to
do science. The other main myth that controls New Testament studies is that Martian scriptures
are heretical and aberrant, that they are eviscerations. Once you get rid of those two myths,
everything gets flipped upside down and you can start to do science. So this is where you need
to have people like Marcus Vincent on. Jack Bull does this because they're actually doing science
in terms of looking like looking at these texts phenomenologically. How many times does a word
occur? What word is occurring? When does that word first appear? When do these two words appear in
this combination? Right? How frequently in this subsection of a text versus this subsection,
how can you start to stratify texts? Right? The thing, Jacob, you should bring this up with every
single person who comes on your show and talks about the synoptic problem. Ask them to where is
the proof scientifically? Can they validate anything that they're saying using statistically
significant findings? Or if they just completely left out of... Why in the sciences? If you're
going to come up with a new COVID vaccine, you damn well have to prove that using quantitative
analysis. Absolutely. Right? There's no such thing as science without quantitative analysis.
You can get a room full of scholars on and they can describe a cloud or a butterfly,
all that they want. Right? You can have your own pet little theory of butterflies or what a cloud
looks like. That's cute. That's not science. Right? Scientists dissect the frog. Scientists don't...
It's not 10 different dudes or 30 different dudes looking at the frog and coming up with their theory
of the frog relationships. They dissect the frog. Right? They get into it. They analyze its DNA.
They analyze its biochemistry. Right? New Testament scholars don't, by and large,
most vast, vast majority of them, they don't do science. They aren't equipped to do science.
That's a struggle. What we need is to break through that. We need people who... There are tons of
data scientists, right? Millions in the world. It's a huge growing area of industry. Undergraduates,
graduates. Data science is one of the new core competencies that a lot of universities are building.
Why is the New Testament... Why is the study of that series of texts done without any kind of
scientific training? Why are no people in New Testament studies learning how to code in Python
or R? Those are core competencies that high school kids now are being asked to do. To do
linguistic analysis. To do text mining. To do trend analysis on what are the trending topics on
Twitter? Well, you use computational linguistics. You use Python. You use R. You use other kinds of
analyses to do that. But most New Testament scholars, as you mentioned before, they don't even
know how to work a computer. We can't expect these people to be able to teach us anything scientific
because all it really is is just idiosyncrasy. I'm not saying this is the beautiful thing about
science. One person doesn't speak for science. Bill Nye is a cool guy. Science is done by a
community. It's done openly. It's done in collaboration. I would love for you guys to
ask that. Every time somebody brings up a synoptic problem solution, say, where is the
statistical proof? Where is your quantitative proof for your theory? And if they don't have it,
yeah. I'm not saying be mean. I'm just saying like that. Just take notes. Make sure you take
notes. Yeah. Let me take a look at it. If we just want to have fun and smoke cigars and sit around
and chat about different people's pet theories, that's cool. I mean, but that's fun.
But if we want to actually understand the deep structure of human history,
and that's again, where you guys are doing important, important work, but again, there are
myths that are operational even in our assumption. The synoptic problem, that itself is built on a
myth. The myth is that there are three texts and only three texts and we have to figure out how
they're related to each other. That's a myth. There are dozens of texts, dozens of collections of
data. And then the questions, how do we correlate all that? How do we make sense of it? How do we
stratify it? How do we analyze it synchronically and diachronically? So even the synoptic problem
is a myth. There is no such thing as a synoptic problem. There's just human communication.
I find it interesting that it's a problem. I don't even think, I think that's the myth that
it is a problem. It's because we're starting with, well, how do we fix this? It's almost like the
diatestron. Tation's diatestron has already set us up for failure here because we're like,
we have a problem here. We have these three that have common material. They look similar and they're
using each other some way. We know that, but why is it a problem? Well, because there's no way they
can all three be accurate, historically, reliably true and then testing what actually happened.
That's the problem. And like Rick Miller says, if these aren't historiographies, what's your problem?
So you're already starting with creating a problem that there isn't necessarily there.
So there's so many myths, I would say, building into this because if they're not historiography,
like Roman biography, written as historiography, but rather almost like mythoid, they're just like,
they're not trying to convey history in any way, shape, or form necessarily, even though all fiction
in the ancient world was anchored to verisimilitude. It had anchored to some reality, didn't make it
history at all. And so like, are we starting with the wrongheaded question that it's like,
oh, there's a problem. Why is there a problem? You have three different books written for probably
three different purposes. Who knows? There's a lot of things that I think, depending on how we start,
we're creating problems. But I understand what they're trying to get at, trying to figure out
who's first and all that. But I'm just throwing it out there because I wonder.
That is unitary authorship and isolation. And if we start looking at things in terms of data
science, it's what we see is integrity of voices. Some voices are unique, and some voices have
distinctive elements. But we also see cross-contamination. If I say something, and it actually
impacts you guys, or if you say something, and it impacts me, or if I read a book, and that impacts
me, it becomes part of my vocabulary. This gets to the core of the issue. What are we as humans?
We are synthesizing machines. We synthesize signals. We take in signals. We synthesize them,
and then we send them out. So what we need to be looking for if we're going to do
you know, signals analysis and data analysis in terms of science is looking at synthetic patterns,
and then as well as contamination and things like obfuscation. How do you hide your identity
as an author? The author of the pastoral, most scholars say, that's not written by Paul. How
did that person hide that person's literary identity in the guise of Paul? Marcus Vincent's
works is about to make a giant impact on scholarship, because along with Jason Bedouin,
he's reconstructed the apostolic on a Marcian. It turns out it's about 30% of the length of Paul's
letters. So if he's right, and Jason Bedouin is right, 70% of what we think is authentic Paul
is not. It's not Paul. That's some dude pretending to be Paul, writing under the guise of Paul.
Right. Again, we need to be able to do, and the way Marcus Vincent's put his together,
you know, again, he'll talk about this coming out with Narfrenka in July,
so he'll be able to go into depth on this, but you know, it's by doing this careful,
scientifically rigorous analysis of vocal patterns and showing that the patterns in the
apostolicon are not only simpler and earlier, but distinct from what you get in the canonical
redactor. The canonical redactor loves to throw out names of people, names of places,
you know, Marcian's apostolic, none of that. Like, it doesn't give a care that Paul went here and
there in the other place, and then you find the same patterns. Which makes me wonder,
like, what we need to look for is patterns in the data, right, where the consistent patterns.
Let me throw this out there for you, because recently there's been apologists who want to
argue that Axe is just getting so much information accurate about geographic locations where Paul
went. I'm like, well, you know, I've read Purvo, I listened to Dennis McDonald on Axe and stuff,
and other scholars who've done this. Shelley Matthews is a great feminist scholar writing
commentaries on it. Long story short, like, I think that this author has Paul's letters,
but when I say that, I'm not necessarily saying he has all Paul's authentic letters.
Like, this author could be writing in the, like, 130s, you know, AD and be using a pastoral Pauline
letter that isn't actually Paul, that's saying he went to this place, he went to that place.
Who knows? They may have somehow worked together in configuring Axe to make the geography work
with their pastorals and giving a narrative of Paul. I don't know which came first, the chicken
or the egg. You see it, I'm trying to get at it. Get Marcus Vinson on, ask him that question,
what you just said. You know, I can't speak for him, but my guess is he would probably,
or Jason Badun, they would probably agree with you and say what the Marcianite scriptures show
is, you know, because there's no interest in all this geography, travel, all that stuff. It's all,
it's all missing, not only from Marcian's apostolicon, but also Marcian's Evangelion.
So the Orthodox view is, oh, you know, Marcian, the shipowner, he just hated geography so much. He
took all that geography stuff out of his, or, right, the other way to put it is he's, he's
witnessing a more simple and primitive version of this tradition, for tradition, and then it gets
highly rewritten, deeply rewritten, and the canonical Axe and, and Paul's letters all get
rewritten in a go. This is David Troubich, right? I don't know if you're familiar with his work,
but he, he basically has argued extensively for 20, 25 years that there was a massive canonical
redaction that happened that around the mid-second century, you know, it's a lot of his publications
are in German, but there aren't some in English. But basically, he says like, you know, just look
at these texts, they're all like tied together. Jack Bull brought this up with the letters, right?
In Marcian's apostolicon, it's all Paul. He's the only author. But in the canonical version,
it's Paul and Timothy, Paul and Timothy, Paul and Silas, and Tersias, and, right, you get all these
co-authors. Who are those guys? And then those guys all link up with Axe, or they link the letters
together with other letters. So that's what Troubich has shown is like, you see all these
linkages, it's like hyperlinks going on in these texts. But those aren't just like,
a few random little things, like they're all over the place, like there is a massive canonical
redaction, when we say a Catholic or proto-Orthodox redaction of these texts. So, right, if, if, but
Dune and Vincent are right, then people like Bart Ehrman are reading, or James Tabor, are reading
Paul's letters in their form that comes from around the 140s, and treating that as if it comes from
the 50s. They're 100 years off. Right. You know, and they're getting, and they're treating 100% of
this Pauline content as if it's Paul when only 30% is. I'm sorry, that's, it's too much of a tangent.
I'm just telling you, like, in a different way, I was kind of, in a different way, I was kind of
touching on that in some of the older videos about the late dating of Paul. And I wasn't completely
dismissing the idea that there was an earlier collection of Paul's letters pre-70. But
the letters that, in the form that we have, I think a lot of the content in there was added
later. If you take Dune's work seriously, or Vincent's work seriously,
I sure do. A lot, there was a lot of content added afterwards. Now, if you just want to say
Marcine was a heretic, and the scriptures don't matter, or he just cut things up, and just like,
but if you want to actually- But you're playing theology, you're playing theology
instead of history. That's a theological position. Marcine is a heretic. His scriptures are heretical.
Therefore, we dismiss them. And me and Jacob aren't into that. We don't- Right. But if you
actually just look at data patterns, I encourage you guys to do it for yourselves. Like, just,
just count up every place name. Like, just take, pick your favorite thing, like place names.
Count up how many there are in canonical Luke. Then count up how many there are in Marcine's
Gospel. And then look at them proportionally. Right. And you'll see a massive discrepancy.
You can do the same thing with participles. You can do the same thing with, you know, little
words. You know, like, you can get fine-tuned in Greek, but you can also- The word people, like,
that occurs almost 40 times in canonical Luke. It occurs zero times, or one, one time, probably
in Marcine's Gospel. And if Marcine's Gospel is like 7,000 words, and canonical Luke is 19,000
words, the ratio should be like one to three. That's a normal ratio. So if you see that ratio
getting way out of whack, where it's like, oh, this is all over the place in canonical Luke,
but it's hardly ever there in Marcine's Gospel. Either Marcine, like, just hates participles,
just keeps taking out the parts and hates place names. And he just hates that stuff. He hates the
word people. Ooh, Marcine hated that word people. Let's get rid of that. Ooh. Right. So, like, either
you have this theory that Marcine's a redactor who just hates getting rid of all of these really
common, deeply integrated features, right, pros and the accusative we brought to Jacob on our
previous, like, Marcine's Gospel, it's usually like, you see this in Greek, like, you know, Jesus
says two, it's in Greek. But in canonical Luke, it's unto, it's pros and the accusative, which
occurs every 100 words. And then it turns out, if you look at what are, you know, called diachronic
language patterns. So again, like, getting into a tangent here, but people who study diachronic
language development, like engrams, have frequencies over time, they notice like the
data is disappearing from post-classical Greek as you get into the second century.
So what makes more sense? Marcine removed all the pros accusatives and retained all these
datives, or the language was evolving to get rid of the data, and Marcine, you know, reflects an
earlier time in linguistic development. That's so that, yeah, and this is what scientists do. They
look at macro data trends. You look at massive environmental data, if you want to figure out
where things fit in history, you know. Real quick comment, just a comment on that, Jacob,
and then I want to let you, I don't care where the truth lands. This is the difference between
what we're doing here at History Valley in Mephysian. We don't care if Irenaeus is really trying to call
out this guy who actually did redact. There was a better loop than redact. We don't care if they
were, well, I mean, it interests me. It's exciting to find out, but it's like, we don't care what the
conclusion is. Like, if Marcine really did redact it, or if they added all this stuff to Marcine to
try and squander the whole Marcine movement and like overshadow them, either way, it won't hurt
my feelings. It's an interesting inquiry. I'd love to learn about it and find out whatever the
conclusions are. But when you're dealing with the channels that are online that are educating
through that kind of apologetic avenue, which we are not interested in doing, I don't care about
people's faiths at the end of the day, meaning I don't have an interest in taking away what you at
the end of the day helps you with your life, your beliefs, your system, your religion, whatever.
But I want, like Dennis McDonald just said today in my interview, he said, I want to make you have
an educated one. I want you to have, I want you to be intelligent. I don't want you to be a dumb
person in the faith. And so this, this Marcine, I think, I think we're going to need to keep
unraveling and find ways to simplify it because some of the language you use, for example,
I can already imagine putting myself in a lot of the viewer's shoes like what, how, explain it
better. I don't understand. Maybe we give visuals and we aid them in showing it. And maybe they don't
have to spend eight years in an institution going through ivory towers to discover what you just
said. No, no. In fact, I think it'd be great to have people on who are experts in data visualization,
data science, right? Because, you know, what do you, like people work at newspapers like the
New York Times, they're great at taking a huge amount of data and putting it really nice infographics
that clearly illustrate things. How about some data visualization people? Why is New Testament just
crappy in terms of our data visualization? Right? Who's doing that work? Why can't we have
better data visualization in this field and not just like little cartoon characters or
something like that? Like, let's, how do we visualize this data? And it's not just like four
dudes sitting in a room. That's not data visuals, but that's the mental picture most people have
when they're dealing with the Gospels. That's the extent of our data visuals at four dudes,
four white, you know, four European dudes sitting in chairs writing these things.
Talk about a white Jesus. Yeah, exactly. This is data. It's Middle Eastern linguistic data.
It's Greek data by and large. There's some Syriac text, but by and large, we're dealing with
Greek data. So let's get some people who are amazing at data science and data visualization
to jump in on this, like interview those people, invite those people, and or ask the question,
like, why is nobody in New Testament doing that work? Why is data visualization absolutely
incidental? It doesn't matter if you visualize data hardly at all, except for like little like
line charts, like very simplistic flow charts. That's about as good as we get. And like, why
what's going on there? It's because we're not doing science, right? Scientists have to visualize
their findings in meaningful ways.
Questions real quick. You saw, thank you for your super chat discernment, Derek.
And this one was given a discernment. Like over 30 minutes ago, I, they are that they
always in the chat, you usual. I just call them you usual.
But they're always in the chat. Yeah. Thank you for that super chat.
Rose of Maffa. Thank you for your super chat, Jacob and Derek, you guys deserve your flowers
for your incredible work and making these colors accessible. I've learned so much over the years.
Thank you. Oh, thank you, Rose. That means a lot. Really does.
Yeah. Thank you so much for the compliment and the flowers.
No.
Ramah, hurry up. Thank you for your super chat. The quote and war of a truth is surrounded by a
bodyguard of lies. What do you think of the idea of the Roman Jewish wars contributed to Jesus
being surrounded by these interpolation bodyguards?
You want me to take a jab? Yeah, so I don't think that the Roman Jewish war has anything
to do with interpolations that are going on in the text, but I think it could be used if you
wanted to use it as some metaphor or something to speak of interpolations for, I would call it
maybe power control in early Christ movements that struggle to retain power and to somehow
overshadow the other Christ movements. Kind of like the Thomasine tradition. Some argue that John
has who touched Jesus' body? Thomas himself, because they might have been some dosetic kind
of group that did not think he had. He was more of a phantom or had no physical, necessarily
body. I don't know. There's some who want to argue that know that this is proving his divinity
in some other way. Because a God is the only thing, according to Richard C. Miller in my
recent conversation, was that what made someone a God and how you knew is when they died and they
were back and they were actually in the full body, because you could become a ghost or a phantom
and be a normal human, but to actually retain the body was possibly a way of saying, this person's
a God, like Hercules after he jumps on the pyre and gets burned to ashes and not even his bones
are there. He goes up into Mount Olympus and next scene you have him having babies. Well,
how's he having babies? His whole body burned away. Well, gods can do that kind of stuff.
But the fact that he touches them, is this a jab? Are these groups interpolating and adding content
or trying to stomp out like the canonical? We were just going into this, like the canonical Luke.
What are they doing? If Marcian was the primitive one, I would bet you might find theological
jabs at Marcianism in some way in canonical Luke acts. Like, without a doubt, we're not even getting
into the second tradition, which is like six to eight, nine, 10% bigger of acts. There's an
Eastern tradition. I can't remember which manuscript tradition that is, but like way more
material in that acts. But I imagine we might find some stuff that really works. It's interpretable
to jab at Marcianism, if that's the case. I know some of it might be subjective, but...
If I can chime in here, Marcian's Gospel starts with Jesus coming out of the sky,
right? Descending, he appeared. I have reconstructed that. In Greek, Afane, he appeared. No other
editor of Marcian's Gospel has done that so far. But if you look in my online edition, you'll see
we actually have like seven witnesses of it in four different languages. So, Marcian's Gospel opens
with Jesus descending and appearing, right? What better way to go against Marcian than to have
elaborate, elaborate birth stories, right? About Jesus' mother, about Jesus' relatives, about his
hometown and where he... That's the opening of Luke. So, it's just to echo what you said, right?
If Marcian's vision, and this kind of goes with what Richard Kerrio has noted, you know, Paul seems
to believe in Jesus as a heavenly figure, heavenly redeemer, comes out of heaven, returns back to
heaven. Well, Marcian's Gospel aligns with that, but it doesn't align in some kind of artificial way.
That's... It's the natural opening to the text. It's just like the Capernaum, he comes out of the
sky, and then that's where his ministry starts, right? So, what makes more sense? Like, Marcian
got rid of all the stuff that made Jesus look like a human being, except in all kinds of places,
Jesus does look like a human being he eats, and so on. Or that a proto-Orthodox redactor in the,
you know, around the middle of the second century, started writing elaborate birth stories.
You know, I think you interviewed... What did you guys interview, Tony Berg?
That was actually Neil from Nazca Forman. Oh, Neil did. I really need to contact him.
Tony's an expert on the infancy traditions, and particularly infancy gospel, Thomas,
and the proto-Immangillian of James, right? These are elaborate stories about Jesus' birth,
his parental lineage. Most scholars would say, oh, those are probably mid-second century,
late-second century traditions. Well, in that case then, Luke is a complete outlier.
It's like you date Luke in the 80s. You get elaborate birth legends in the 80s,
and then nobody mentions them for 100 years. Even Justin Martyr doesn't mention any of these
Luke and Nativity traditions. You know, amazing, beautiful stories. Mary's reciting amazing Greek
poetry. Like, is that happening really in the 80s, or is there a mid-second century, roughly,
and later development to just start creating amazing, beautiful, right? And it's, to me,
like, this is kind of what, you know, Richard Miller was saying is like, to me, these texts are,
you know, it's not to debunk them. It's not to debunk anybody's faith. Like, these texts are
beautiful in their own right, you know, but they're beautiful texts amidst many, many, many other
beautiful texts, including Latin and other Greek texts. So, but, you know, when did it start
to become, like, trendy to have elaborate birth stories about Jesus? Well, probably around the
mid-second century, based on all the external evidence. When did it become popular to have
elaborate, like, Homeric allusions in the broader culture, according to Namah Kamadi texts,
about the mid-second century, right? So, a lot of these things, we act like this was all,
all these legends were fully developed right at the very beginning, but
yeah, it took a while for Christianity to get its legs.
And what's interesting is that the last time I had Bart Erman on, he said,
he thinks the first two chapters of Luke are not original Luke. He thinks they were added later.
And I had to ask Bart, you know, that kind of makes it sound like the Lord's Gospel. You take
those first two chapters of Luke out, Luke chapter three, the very beginning of Luke chapter three
looks like the beginning of the Lord's Gospel. It's a start. It's a start of a text. Luke 3.1
reads as the start of a text. Yeah. And don't you love just this idea of historiography, right?
Supposedly Luke is a historian who's going to get you the accurate history.
Man, Richard Miller and me, we were recording at his house not long ago. That guy's amazing.
I am so shocked nobody has, like, discovered him and made, so I just feel very honored to do what
we're doing. But so I'm talking to him and he's like, yeah, Dennis McDonald stood up in an SPL
meeting once and got, you know, he kind of called out the speaker on this, that the person was trying
to argue about how historically reliable and this guy's a historian. And he's like, sir,
chapter one, verse 11, there's an angel next to the altar in the temple that, you know, John's
father sees, like, here's an angel dialogues with angels dialogue with how historical, like,
the point is, is if you compare it like one Michael, there's your supernatural bias coming in.
Okay, okay. But yes, I do have a bias. I admit that I am I'm a natural. I love Michael Landon
and touched by an angel. He's great. It's super entertaining. Yeah. But you know, this is this
is the problem with with approaching in this way is other historians who approach material like this
will show caution. They don't let you get encompassed by the material like what we're reading here
in the first two chapters of Luke, as if they're going to give you the accurate historical validity
and then all of a sudden you have angels popping in and like crazy stuff happening and he's not
going now this is what they said happens or this is what they say occurred. And so whether this is
true or not, you know, like, there's historians who are making it and they're very careful.
None of that's found. And that's somewhere deep into our recordings, which I'll be getting out
on. Herodotus or Tacitus, they go through various scenarios when it's like, okay, what it what really
happened here, they go through multiple scenarios, they weigh the pros and cons, they look at the
evidence. Sometimes they do recount eyewitnesses, but it's also always a multiple hypothesis
thing that they're dealing with. And then they settle on the most likely that doesn't mean that
they were doing science, according to modern, of course, techniques at all, they were taking
far better than one nation. But there's not there's not even the pretense in these texts of
entertaining like more than one possible way. But the other thing, you know, Derek is just like,
you get into Greek here, on the loss in Greek just means messenger, it doesn't mean angel,
per se. Right. So if you read the plays of Euripides, you get frequently these Angelois,
the messengers, they come and give speeches and they dialogue with the main characters,
but then they leave. Right. So isn't it interesting that Luke's gospel opens up,
you know, with two messenger events, like dialogues with messengers, like that's much
more like a Greek play. Yeah, then it is. I do think it's like a natural.
I do think it's a supernatural messenger because he's terrified and frightened,
can't speak. Well, the messengers came out of the sky often, right? If gods were messengers,
Athena will come down on a platform. This is where we get the phrase Deus ex machina,
God out of the machine. In Greek drama, the gods were lowered onto the stage. Right. Athena to
like stop. So and they go back up. Right. So a platform that looks like a cloud, right, carrying
a God up into the air. What does that sound like? Well, it sounds like the ascension.
Right. That's what people would have seen in front of their faces all the time,
going to Hellenistic theaters. They would have seen gods rising and descending on platforms.
They would have seen messengers rising and descending on platforms coming down. Like,
where did Mary learn how to be such a great Greek poet? That's what I want to know, right?
How did a Semitic woman from Palestine learn how to compose elegant poetry based on the Septuagint?
Right. That's not historical. That's later, again, like, and it to me, it actually takes
away from the beauty of the text. Like, that's an, the Magnificat is amazing poetry. I love it.
I think the Magnificat is fabulous, right? But the idea that a Palestinian woman in the 30s wrote
that or recited that, that to me, that it just dismisses the beauty of the, like, you're actually
disrespecting the creators of that text, right, by treating it as if it's a historical account.
No, no, it's a, it's a beautifully creative account, probably from like the 130s during the
time of Hadrian, who was leading a Greek cultural renaissance around the Roman Empire.
Sorry. Professor James, Professor James Tabor's in the chat, too. I saw, I was like, oh snap.
Okay. Okay. Sorry. I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna pull up what he said in just a second.
I want to get to this super chat real fast. Rosa Motha, thank you for your super chat.
If I was a millionaire, I would back what Jack Bull is saying, is doing. I would love to see what
he comes up with. Oh, Jack's doing amazing work. And he's teaching me Greek, and I can't wait to
fully know Greek eventually, because it's, it's really fascinating.
But yeah, he really, he can use some support. He's, he has been struggling, which is sad to see,
but he's, isn't he on Facebook? Yeah, he is. Yeah, he is. I think I'm friends with him. He sounds
familiar. Yes. Give me the jack. I support that 100%. Please do. He's, he's his own amazing researcher,
but he's also one of Marcus Vincent's protegees, and Vincent's work needs to go mainstream. Like,
is he friends with you? I wrote, I edited the book, Classical Models of the, of the Gospels and Acts
and tried to mainstream McDonald's scholarship, which it's great to see that happening now.
Marcus Vincent's scholarship needs to go mainstream and Jason Badoon's
scholarship needs to go mainstream. Yeah, he's friends with me on Facebook, Derek. Yeah.
I'm going to be a multi-task and forget. Yeah, and Klinghart. I'm going to send you the link to
the profile, the easier and Marcus Vincent on Facebook. Yes, he is. He doesn't have a Patreon.
He's, he's a, he's a happily research, busy researcher. Okay. But Jack does. Jack has a Patreon.
Jack needs support. Yeah. I've also heard good things are happening with Jack's job prospects,
but I don't want to speak out of turn. Right. He's a, he's, uh, things are getting better,
but, uh, but he still needs support. He's freshly minted, minted PhD. Like most of us
struggle to find, uh, you know, academic positions afterwards. Did we get too off topic? Should we
come back? Um, oh no, I don't think so. But let me pull up what James Tabor said here. This is
interesting. It's interesting. Uh, just saying, hello here, free of my favorite people, just
beginning to know Mark and his work with much more to come. Oh, thank you, James.
James, take me to Israel. Take me to Israel. Oh, let me tell you those trips. You need to go ahead
and walk for a few months before you go on those tours and get in shape. Oh, but there's a difference
between going on just a tour and going with James Tabor to. He walks on water. That guy is, he's
going. I'm like, hold on. Do you see him behind you? And you're like, oh, we got to wait for,
he's up ahead of you next thing, you know, and you're having to catch up and.
Yeah, I thought Masada was just a good exercise walk. I never even thought to wonder about skeletons
at Masada. James, why are you complicating the picture for us? He does. He said something
interesting about Matthew's gospel and a couple of more comments down. Ebeonites took out Matthew
one through two. So that's interesting. So the opening with the birth narrative and the genealogy
is missing from the Ebeonite tradition. Yeah, I see where he's getting that because he posted that
about the time I brought up Bart's point that he thinks the first two chapters of Luke were not
originally there. Yeah. And I've been and that's also when I then brought up. It looks like it looks
more like the Lord's gospel. We took the first two chapters of Luke out. Yeah, let's just say like
that could be flipped just as easily. Right. If the birth narratives in Matthew, which are imitating
the Alexander the Great legends, Richard Miller's talked about that. If those elaborate like Alexander
imitations are late additions, then the Ebeonites, you know, the Jewish Christians, you might say,
they're actually preserving an earlier form of Matthew's gospel in that regard. So yeah.
Oh, this is interesting. Wait until you get the DNA stuff from Masada.
Okay. So yeah, so that's a whole different thing. I'm not even going to be able to speak on. I'll
probably mess something up. I typically do. James can tell you how I always take what he says and
then does something and I mess up and I don't get it right. But there's some DNA stuff they're doing
about the bodies that were found there. Stay tuned. I think there might be relations to some
serious people. Maybe I'm mixing some stuff up. That tour was a pain in my butt. Okay, don't blame
me, James. But I think it has relations to do with a high priest or something like some really big
where we have osuaries of people that are important. I think I might be connected.
That's a case that's exciting. Yeah, James, help me out. Please tell me I'm not completely in the
dark here in the chat. I'm paying attention. Please tell me. While we wait on that, Brian was here
for your super chat. He says more data science. Absolutely. These are actually all great illustrations
of how the digital age is changing scholarship. Like you might get up to the minute scholarship
from James Tabor, one of the archaeological experts on Palestine. Like in that minute,
like that's crazy that we used stuff to wait weeks and months and years to get results,
you know, scholarly insights. So it's an amazing age we're living in. Exactly. It's just like when
the cell phone was invented. There was a time when it would take months to get something,
to tell somebody from a far off place like sending a letter down there. Then the telegrams came out
and then the phones. I just want to echo what Brian is saying and say the way and I appreciate
the gift. It's not to trivialize the gift at all. But why are there no New Testament positions that
involve deep integrations with data science and competencies? Why are students not required to
learn Python or R or any kind of statistical software? Why is the best data science related
to these texts happening in computer science departments? Can I make a guess? And I'm going
to throw this out to you. Tell me if I'm so off. I don't mind. But this is a complete guess. Tell
me if you think I'm off because you may not know the answer. I think that 90% of the institutions
that are teaching New Testament studies are doing so to make priests, to make people of the faith,
to go teach and propagate their kind of traditions and stuff. It's very rare that I see
rigorous, absolute, academic approaches to this kind of material. And this has been the
concern even with SBL. I just dropped a video with Richard Miller who was saying he has a
serious issue with SBL because he's like, they should divide it. And he said he spoke to the
president, I don't know if this is a decade or two ago, he said we should have divided
conferences or at least divided sections where here's theology taking place and over here is
real historical inquiry. If you're in the theology section, they may not care to answer the questions
that your tough questions might be. They don't have an interest in trying to answer that from a
historical point of view. Here are our conclusions, these are our boundaries, and we can perfect our
art within our theology. So I wonder if that's why they haven't put that money into educating
each student in that direction because it's not, maybe I'm putting more words into Richard's mouth
than he would, but it's not a serious field in many ways according to the way it seems Richard has
conveyed it. I can agree with that. I went to seminary, I learned how to read Greek in seminary,
I was considered one of the best, you know, whatever is my school. Then I went to UVA and
started taking courses in the classics department and it kicked my ass because I didn't have any
idea how to read Homeric Greek or Plato or Aristophanes, right? And it took a lot more work and a
lot more training to go, you know, to be competent. Like, you know, you're in a classics course,
you're doing sight reading of a hundred lines from the from the Iliad in one sitting and then
you just estimate you'd be lucky to make it through like 10 verses in a class, right? So it's just,
it's a completely different level of competency. So yeah, if we could just get rid of all so-called
biblical Greek courses and just have everybody learn classics from classicists, but then I would
also add on top of that instead of learning how to do, you know, literary analysis from people who
have vested faith perspectives, you know, which is fine. Again, like we there's a there's a role
for storytelling in human life and meaning making and all those kinds of things, but let's not pass
it off as pseudoscience. And that's where we need data scientists to actually just kind of take over
the field. And that's this honestly, it's happening in universities, they're retiring religion
departments, they're retiring biblical studies departments, theological schools are going out of
existence, right? They're disappearing by the dozens by the hundreds. And what's happening is,
as these unfortunately, like I'm a humanist and I love the humanities. So, you know, for me this
is sad, but what you're finding is people in computer science departments now and data science
and, you know, decision making and so on, they're starting to encroach into these areas. And what
I would say is like, that just needs to, that needs to happen in mass, we need to just take off the
Band-Aid. So for any computer science people out there, data science people, please just take
over New Testament studies. Because the people in it who are the wizards behind the curtain,
we most of us have no idea what we're doing. That's that's a confession of somebody who's
been in the discipline, who's trying to integrate it with science. We need scientists to actually
just come in and take over our discipline. Please, soon.
James Sabor says, think antagonists has many and
oh, that's interesting. They found the, I wonder if they found the ossuary of antagonists.
It's, it's big. And I can't remember what it is because he said so many big things on that trip.
But then he goes on, he says, most, most New Testament positions, even secular ones run with
theological models, Old Testament, New Testament ethics, blah, blah, blah. Jonathan Smith pioneered
the right path, paths to approach both Jews and Christians in the late Roman period.
And then he says, my PhD is from humanity, Chicago, not the Divinity School. Classics chair was on my
committee. That's right. People who have done interdisciplinary, I did a similar program,
UVA, Litwa did too. We're classics, Tanakh, Rebenix, and then New Testament. So we did not
learn New Testament isolation. We were going to, we were going to bring up what happened to Litwa.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, I don't know the ins and outs. I just know that he was, he was removed from a
Catholic, you know, kind of like, I think you have to, I don't know if he had a sign on, but
this is an institution that was faith. It's a faith, Catholic faith college. And I don't know if
they had enough. I mean, his, his book that he was publishing at the time that I really started
getting in depth with him was the evil creator and found Christianity's, which was a jab back at
Bart Ehrman in a way. He thought, Bart, you know, he's playing in the same field with Bart, but
to say he thinks Bart's wrong in his approach on second century Christianity's in some respects.
But the idea is to vindicate those voices that were silenced under the, the quote,
hereseology. And he's trying to vindicate them. And imagine your Catholic school hearing,
you're trying to resurrect these people that their, their fathers, their founding fathers,
so to speak, are against. So he ends up getting in trouble there. And what I did, just to get a
little, little bit of a direction, what I've done with several academics, including trying to encourage
Robin Faith Walsh, you name it, even James Tabor, who's in the chat. He really, I think that I would
like to, James, correct me if I'm wrong, I feel that we've played a huge impact on inspiring him to
start his YouTube channel, encouraging him to take that path and really try to make it more public,
his, his insights. He's learned more than I'll probably ever forget, or he's probably forgotten
more than I'll ever learn, sorry. This guy is like brilliant. He knows so much. And so he started
going to YouTube route. Well, that's what, that's what Litwa did. And then also I got him on the
Patreon, encouraged him to start having it to where he can have private people who really
believe in what he's doing and support him financially. And he can communicate with them
and he can offer them deals with books and whatever he wants to do. But it was, it's what
we're doing, what me and Jacob are doing, I think, and others that are trying to set the path on
getting the academics known to a popular audience and help them make a revenue stream,
not just through their institutions, because their institutions could pull that card,
like what happened to Litwa, and all hell breaks loose. You do amazing scholarship,
publish all these books, do brilliant work, you can still get canned by a faith-based
institution. So it's no job security in this field to be a great scholar or to publish prolifically.
This actually brings up this kind of idea I wanted to not so much pitch to you guys, but just a
different way of coming at it. A lot of publishers, if you're famous, you can get a good contract
with a publisher. You can make some pretty good royalties. If you're an academic, no name,
you're not going to get a very good contract. You're not going to get very good royalties.
It's a system of the rich and the poor in publishing by and large. But what you guys are
doing is you're in the middle. You're helping to elevate lesser-known scholars so that they
have a name, they have a reputation, they have a following. Some people appear on your YouTube channel,
all of a sudden, people love their work. People are following, people are supporting them. They
know their work. Where's the leverage? If you go in and you start contract negotiations with a
publisher and you don't have a solid reputation or an online fan base, you're coming off in terms of
negotiation in a very weak position. But if you have a fan base, let's say we release a book open.
I don't have something to pitch to you quite yet on this, but what if a group of scholars came
together, they had this amazing book that they've been working on, and then they work together with
you guys and say, hey, you guys be our marketers on this. You guys will each get 1% of the royalties,
and then you get a million downloads of a digital book. You show that there's an
audience for this book. Before you've given away all your rights, then you go to the
publishers and you say, hey, there's a giant market for this book.
You flip the script completely. At academic publishing, we're almost always negotiating
from a place of weakness, and we treat our content. We work for pennies on the dollar.
Academics do years and years and years and years of research. If you actually
break that down in terms of monetary value, we're making two cents an hour for the work that
academics are, that's crazy. Guess who's making a bunch of money? The big publishers. They're
making billions and billions and billions of dollars. The profit margins for publishers like
Elsevier, this came up in the news recently, a whole team in neuroscience, a whole team of editors
resigned from a journal because Elsevier is making 35% plus profit margins. Amazon makes 3%,
Walmart makes 3%, but big publishers sometimes are making in the 20s or 30s. It's a massive
economy of exploitation of academics that's based on prestige, but that's where you guys come in.
You guys are prestige creators. You're prestige elevators. You take somebody who doesn't have a
lot of prestige, sounding like a Will Ferrell movie now, and you elevate them worldwide to
worldwide prestige. Then all of a sudden, they have negotiating power, and that's where you
guys could actually, instead of just creating courses, you can create book content. What if you
created a book, helped create a book that had a million downloads and then did millions of copies,
and you just got 1% of the royalties on that. That'd be a pretty sweet deal. It's not like this
is atypical in the sciences. The latest scientific research, it's usually released now in what are
called preprints. You want to read the latest COVID research because it's grant funded, it's open.
It's a preprint open access. You can release content open all the time. That doesn't mean
it has to be printed. Our whole model is based on killing trees and distributing copies of dead
trees around to do knowledge dissemination. Does that really make sense in this day and age,
in a digital age? Coders are sharing books immediately after they're written. In fact,
you can create books using code. You can use R, Markdown, or Quarto. You can write a whole
fricking book in R and publish it, and then continually publish it and update it with a new
code. Guess what? Software developers know your code can get bugs. Your code can have a glitch
in it, and your code that was working today is not working tomorrow. You have to be able to
update the code. If we want to be able to lift religious studies and the humanities into a
serious form of knowledge sharing, then it needs to become like code sharing, where we're uploading
content. Not just to GitHub, because GitHub is a private company. You're counting on them to do
all your keeping that data safe for you. We need to control our own means of production. We need
to be more like, I'm a full capitalist, but we need to be hungry capitalists who are content
creators, if that makes sense. I don't want to over speak there. I'll tell you what I've done.
So I haven't tried to proceed and leverage myth vision to make monetary value from these presses,
even though I've thought about it, never made that attempt. What I have done though.
So much content for them. Oh, yeah. So these are the two things that I do. I do have an Amazon
affiliate link, so I get chump change for every 1,000 books that they might sell through Amazon.
I might make 30, 40 bucks. I mean, maybe up to 100 from Amazon, right, for whatever,
which is just like gas in the car. When my wife needs gas, we need lunch, whatever.
But what I do leverage them hundreds of thousands of dollars, probably.
Oh, I bet. Without a doubt. This book, for example, though, I'm a lover of the material that they're
printing and producing. And so this is Fortress, in case this is the manual told the latest, greatest
of the manual told textual criticism in the Hebrew Bible. And like, I'll call them now,
and they know me, and I'll say, Hey, I need a box with like 100 books, and these are the books I want,
and I'll give them a list and they'll mail me a box. I don't pay for the publications.
In fact, sometimes the books I'll read, then I'll contact them and say, get me in touch with that
scholar. And I'll use it to keep producing the content, which helps sell them, you know, the
materials. But that's why I encourage these academics to write a popular level book that
isn't through a rigorous academic press, but go through their own self publishing or, and I know
that diminishes their reputation. But they're not Bart Ehrman, in terms of accessing ways to be able
to sell, you know, New York Times best selling. I'd rather put $15,000, $20,000 in your book,
making an affordable book of your work, instead of giving it to the the academic press that is
going to charge $200 to sell it to libraries, not thinking of the general public. Give me the
general public, give me something I can sell that's affordable. And that's why I did the courses.
Yeah, we put a lot of hard work into these courses that we do online. Yeah. And I agree,
let's do academic should do more popular level works. But let's also not undersell the public,
because there are lots of brilliant people out there who would love to read these books.
But they can't build up a print library of thousands of books and pay $200 or $300 per book.
So we also just need to reinvent academic publishing, where, again, like, we create the
content. And before we've given away all our rights to the content, right, to an academic
publisher, just based on prestige, like, Oh, I get published with this publisher. That gives me
prestige, right? That prestige is a mirage, you know, by and large, like you can publish with a
great press. And it can be crap work. That you're right, we do need to change the press. There's
a lot of crap that's published, like real crap that's published by in religious studies, especially.
There's so many books that are crap that are derivative, unscientific crap that are published
by the leading presses. Right. So we just need to get much more intentional about, like, identifying
people who can create legitimate content that's scientific or new insights, and then, you know,
share that and not let publishers take, you know, like, I published an article with Harvard
Theological Review, prestigious press, Cambridge University Press. Because my co-author was
affiliated with Cambridge University, we were able to get the open access waiver cost, which is like
$3,000 plus dollars waived. That's just because she worked at Cambridge. Right. If we didn't have
that affiliation, we would have had to pay, pay them $3,000 just to publish our article. Right.
That's not their cost. And they're making way more money on it. So this is also, there's a justice
conversation here. There's a self-advocacy conversation here about how do we retain our power?
How do we retain our rights? And then how do we become more effective? This is the problem,
Mark. This is the problem, brother. I'm telling you, this is why I keep preaching saying,
you know, if we can't get them to change and we want them to stop only aiming at libraries,
okay? Like, there are so many people. We are the evidence. Our analytics are the evidence to know
that are hungry for this information. Whatever their motivation, whatever their reason is,
I buy Dr. James Tabor's books because it helps my faith. I buy Dr. James Tabor's books because
it's critical and it picks apart that fundamentalism, whatever it might be.
There are people starving for this and they're aiming at, you know, let's charge this library
$200 because they're going to buy, we're going to get 10,000 books off the table by the libraries
and make some money. If we can't beat the big man, which I've noticed that I don't know who to even
talk to to even make that kind of change, then I'm encouraging the academics to self-publish or try
to find a way to get their insights, you know, and they will make the money. They will be the ones
who get one person at a time and one creative experiment at a time. So that's why, like, I've
got various ideas for books, various, you know, books that I'm working on. I would be very happy
to collaborate with, you know, a YouTube channel, you know, producer, host on some of that content
and, and again, like, test the digital market, show that a book is popular and then on that,
like, and it's not like distributing something digitally for free, actually empties or exhaust
the print market. Turns out like a dissertation, if it really catches on, if it's good work,
and it gets lots and lots of downloads, publishers are more likely than not to pick it up in print.
Because guess what? People still like to read print books. Some people want the information
quickly. They want to be able to do digital analysis. They want to be able to do text mining and
searches for that. That's great. You want it to be digitally useful, but just distributing
something digitally, and if it's very popular, that doesn't mean that you've, like, got rid of the
print market on it. In fact, you have way more leverage to go and print it. Like, if it's a
commonly used book and everybody loves it, a lot of people are going to want to read and print. And
that's, if you look at the macroeconomics of publishing, that's what's happening is like,
digital book sales are going way up year over year. Well, guess what? Print book sales are going
way up year over year too. So they're not mutually exclusive markets. They're actually mutually
reinforcing markets. I'll just put it this way too. There's a reason, you know, Bart and what
we did with MVP courses started around the same time. He started launching his courses before I
actually got to launch courses because of the whole debacle that happened with me and Robert
Price. I already had a whole course with him done on anti-apologetic resurrection course. Never
launched it. And I'm glad, looking back, that didn't happen for other reasons. But I don't
want to get caught up on that. I just want to point out that the reason I think you see Bart
Ehrman coming to me, going and looking for affiliates with large YouTube channels, because he
knows it works. He knows that these crowds are hungry to come and sign up for us. Well,
he's making good money on royalties from you. Very good. Yes. Yeah. But you need to know your
value. Oh, I do. Yeah, I do. Every person who signs up through a link that I sell of Bart Ehrman's
courses, I get a percentage. Yeah. So it's an affiliate program, which is also what I'm doing.
I have an affiliate program. So, for example, Jacob is an affiliate of MVP courses. When he
interviews academics that are doing courses on MVP, if you sign up through Jacob's link,
you're helping Jacob. You're helping that academic. You're helping MVP courses. You're helping
publicize for affordable costs this scholarship that is hiding in ivory towers at Yale, at Harvard,
at Princeton, at whatever the place might be. You're making them have to change because they're
eventually going to go, well, we've got to change up our methods. This isn't working. And they're
going to have, they're going to be forced to do digital. They're going to be forced to do
everything online at some point. Things are going to be different. And I think the old
humanities publishers need to know there's money in open access. It's not like there's,
and that's why you need to put a price on it. Let's say that you love certain volume about
the Dead Sea Scrolls. It's super expensive. Most people will never be able to afford this.
What's the publisher's price point where they know there's no way we'll ever sell
sell enough print copies to make, is it $100,000? Is it $200,000? What would it be to actually pay
the publisher to flip that so to become open? What's their price point? Because pretty sure
in economics, everybody's got a price in terms of content. So what is that? And one idea might be
if not just produce open content, but identify content that's really important, that's only in
print, and it really just needs to be free and available for the general public. If it's a Dead
Sea Scrolls, shouldn't that be publicly available for everybody? Why is that all locked down? That
doesn't make any sense. What is that publisher's price point? Do we need to get you guys a half
million bucks? What is it? And through crowdfunding and through popular channels, you might actually
be able to do that. And you could start small. Find one book you really love that's locked down,
it's under copyright, and the publisher's really restrictive. Find one book and say,
I want that book to be free for the frigging world. I think everybody should be able to read that
book. Go to the publisher, say, how much? 10,000 bucks? 20,000? What do you need? And then you raise
it, you don't have to raise it all yourself, just set up a crowdfund around it. Right? Set up a
crowdfund. I've never heard of this, by the way. Yeah, well, this is what Unglue It is about.
Set up a crowdfund, crowdfund for that book, and with your audiences, you could raise $10,000 or
$50,000, probably in short order. And then all of a sudden, that book is free for the world.
Right? And then you've just done, you've managed the massive service. So then if we have the rights
to... You're negotiating with the publisher, so Unglue It will help you negotiate rights with
the publisher. They'll go to the publisher and say, hey, what do you guys need? Like, what's your
price point? $10,000? It almost sounds easier to me, though. If I'm in contact with these academics,
for me, it's easier for me to go, I know it's a lot of work, but just rewrite another book,
pertaining to your work, more popular level. That's a possibility, too. For the creators,
have a lot of power in this. Right. But they also need to know that the model can change,
and that there are different ways to get to open. Got it. Right? And again, that's only going to
benefit. Like, if you run a successful crowdfunding campaign, and you free up a book that millions
of people will read, people are going to adore you for that. Like a book that's really rare and
difficult to find. There's so many books like that, really difficult to find, super rare, out of print.
Dennis McDonald, with his memesis press, he just started his new press, his book,
Synopses of Epic Tragedy in the Gospels, he wants to be able to send that to anyone in the world.
Amazon has limitations. They are not willing to send his, because it's a thick, big,
six, 700 page book. They won't send it to Australia. They won't send it to certain countries,
so they can't even get the book. So he's working on trying to make it into audible form,
which is difficult because it's actually a tool rather than just a book. It's more of a learning
index kind of thing, but he's trying to work into getting it into audible. But I imagine if
crowdfunding came up with something, hey, Dennis, let's just make this thing purely e-book and make
it free for anyone and everyone and downloadable. Maybe he can find enough funds to just make it
all downloadable and free. Boom, disseminated across the earth. Now everybody knows about his
monieses. If he's the copyright holder, he can always just tell everybody else what is his price
point to make it open. If Dennis feels like that work, that took me this amount of hours,
that much of my time, it's worth $100,000. Sorry for rambling. Name that as his price point,
and then that could be paid to him, and then they could be free to the world. But what I'm talking
about are kind of the more rare and out-of-print books. There are so many books in religious
studies, they're out of print. The publisher isn't going to print them anymore, but the publisher
still holds the copyright. And so most of us, even researchers, like hardcore researchers,
we can't get access to the books we need because they're locked down under copyright and they're
only in 10 libraries around the world. Well, what if we... So again, I would encourage you,
there's a site called Ungluit. So they run these crowdfunding campaigns to flip books from closed
access to open access for the world. And there's no reason all of your professor guests, any book
that's under copyright with a publisher where they've given away their copyright, where they
can't actually flip that to become open. If it's a really valuable book, everybody in the world
should have access to it. It's not like... I've published several books, I get royalties checks,
usually they're diddly squat for academic books. But if you make it open, then all of a sudden you
have a massive readership. I think most academics, we're not in this primarily for the money. I think
all of us want a fair wage or fair job or good paying, but we care about our ideas. So I think
most academics, if they could know that their work is going to be read by people all over the world,
they would be elated for that. So there is a path. That's what I'm here to tell you. There are
multiple paths to get to more openness, which again, is how the digital age is transforming
scholarship. Sorry, got to bring it back into the theme. I'm so glad you did.
Yeah, it would be good because it not only gives the academics the financial support that they
deserve, but it also makes it easier for the public to access books and without having to pay so much
money. Like one book I bought, the Princeton edition of the critical edition of the Damascus
document fragment two, I think it was a Damascus document two. And it's a wonderful book by James
Charlesworth. And it costs like, I think it costs like close to 200 or around $200 to persons. And
that's just one book. And it's sad because thousands, tens of thousands of people
want to read it, but they don't want to read it for that amount of money. I mean, let's be honest,
because they don't know the treasure that's behind it. And until you are really able to
dangle that golden carrot and it's convincing enough, like, I like Mark's idea. And this is why
Mark, I've been approved. I thought kind of, I didn't know some of the things you mentioned
during this episode today, and we're going to have to be in contact after this. I do have to
go soon, Jacob, but let me just make one comment that I'd love to let you both give me your two
cents is I'm trying to fight this. I'm not looking at them as the enemy. I'm trying to be collaborative
and work with these presses that are established that are doing great. Hey, they've got plenty of
money to make in the world. But if they reduce the cost of the of the academic publications,
reduce those costs, targeted them, made them ebook, whatever you can. However, they can try
and improvise. Like, trust me when I tell you, we have a marketing plan here that is affordable
because people love this work. And it's not, they're looking at it for money reasons, you know,
the presses, the academics are looking at it more of like, what legacy am I leaving? Because
they're not interested in, oh, how do I build zeros in my bank? Some might. And that's, that's
their own prerogative. I like, I have nothing against that either. Most though that I talked to
are more interested in, how do I leave a legacy? And I want that legacy to be enduring. There is no
legacy when you're hiding in an ivory tower and you can't even help that you're hiding in an ivory
tower. You want to be public. How do I become popular? Dennis McDonald had no clue. And I'll
just give you a little TMI. Too much information. But when I first met Dennis, he told me he paid
some book person $5,000, right, to help him disseminate his Mythologizing Jesus book.
And he says, Derek, our first episode that I did where you didn't charge me, I didn't charge you,
you just came on, I came on. Like, we recorded about my book Mythologizing Jesus. I sold more
copies of Mythologizing Jesus than I ever did paying this person, whoever he was, I don't even know,
$5,000 to try and help me get this book out there. Right. And I was like, well, we have a team, we
have a mutual interest in, you know, so we both came together and we've teamed up and now I'm like,
I love his work too. So it's a great example. And I mean, you're showing where the power is
and then where the value at is. Right. Dennis is creating all this amazing new content.
Right. That is valuable. You are bringing it to the masses. That's valuable. What actually
do publishers do in this day and age? They've outsourced most of their work. They get other
academics to do the editing. You know, often they get, they send it back to academics three
and four times to do their own copy editing. Right. They aren't doing any marketing or minimal
marketing in this day and age. So the publishers, they have academics do 99% of the work
and then they make 100% of the profits or 99% of the profits. Right. It's a completely,
yeah. And that's where what you're doing. And this is where academics can self-empower. You
know, if you get away from the myth, here's another myth. The myth is like, if you publish with
Brill, it's great scholarship. If you publish with DeGroeter, it's great scholarship. No, it's not.
Some of what they publish is shit. Right. Some stuff, like that Dennis is publishing with a
Mace's Press, that's more important than 90% of the stuff Brill is publishing. Right. I'm with
you on that too. What professor, and you know, like when Erasmus 400 years ago was publishing
seminal treatises on classics, on linguistics, on philology, did Erasmus need to go through
Brill publishers for his works to be valuable? Give me a frickin' break. Who was Brill?
He was a genius. Right. If his work is meritorious on its own as valuable content, it does not matter.
The publisher is irrelevant. So we need to, there's this publisher mystique in academics.
It's the same consensus policy as well. It's like that.
I published with all the big religious studies presses. I'm telling you, like,
the prestige factor is bullshit. Right. We just need that. We need to call out that myth,
the bullshit of like the mystique. It's the Wizard of Oz. Wizard behind the curtains. You
publish with Brill. You're amazing. Bullshit. That's just bullshit. You can publish amazing work.
So what we need to do is create little cohorts of peer review. Right. Let's not get rid of peer
review and like everything's a vanity press. No, let's not go that direction. We need rigorous
feedback from each other. Right. We get better by sharing our work with each other and correcting.
You know, I give many examples of this, but my work has been significantly improved
before it ever was published by thorough feedback from my dissertation advisor, right, from all
kinds of other people and vice versa. Academics know this. We're constantly helping to improve
each other's work behind the scenes before it's even submitted to a publisher and even after it's
submitted to a publisher. So let's make little cohorts, three, four, five, six, seven scholars.
It doesn't have to be a press just to coat an academic peer review cohort
and then publish with that cohort. And it doesn't matter what, you know, and publish it digitally
and then create the digital audience. And then, right, once you've established that there's a
significant digital audience for it, then go to a mass market publisher that will actually give
decent royalties, not 1% royalties or 2% royalties. But like what I'm not saying we're the
Obamas here, but when the Obamas go to get a book deal done, you better believe the publishers
not offering them 1% royalties, right, because they have name recognition, right, and substance.
So you combine those two things, substance and name recognition,
and you have a lot of negotiating power. So that's really what this is about for me is like,
how can you guys and academics partner more effectively? I'm sorry, I get too many tangents,
but yeah. I'm with you. Well, I think we can close out there. We've been at this for an hour
and 44 minutes, and there hasn't been any more secret chats so far either. And yeah, I thank you
both for joining me today. This has been a really awesome discussion. Maybe we could have a part two
about this someday later. This has been amazing. I just want to again tell you how proud I am of
you, Jacob, pushing through, continuing to do what you do. The other day, your Robin Faith
Walsh episode just always impresses me, you know, these conversations that are really a joy to listen
to. And I'm glad you didn't give up early on. There were moments where you're like, I don't know
if I want if I'm going to do you kept going. And so don't stop, keep going and anyone who enjoys
watching you help support. I even became a member of your YouTube channel. It's not a lot,
but it contributes. Everything adds up. And it's a way of keeping a community going
so that we can keep educating and doing what we're doing. So
well, thank you, Derek. I really appreciate it. Yeah, thank you, Jacob. Your channel just keeps
leveling up every week. It gets better and better. Yeah. Thank you, Mark. All right, well, we'll go
ahead and play the outro. Thank you. I thank everybody for sharing their questions. James,
Taylor, I appreciate the stuff you said. And I'll see everybody later.
