Really, what really underlines everything Craig says about his faith and about Christianity
boils down to what is being said in this recording.
Welcome back to Mid-Vision Podcast.
Today I want to take a close look at a recent podcast that was done by Dr. William Lane
Craig.
And all thanks to Paula Gia on his new channel, Paula Gia Live.
I don't know if I can eloquently explain or spell it out the same way that Paul does.
However, I want to take a closer look because for years I cherished the words that came
from William Lane Craig.
And he was such a sophisticated apologist along the lines of Ravi Zacharias before we
saw what was happening in the end and others who were within that framework of apologetics.
And I always connected with them on a mental but also emotional level because they gave
a Christianity that I could feel but also felt like I was smart in accepting.
And in this recent podcast that William Lane Craig did, I wasn't shocked so much by what
I heard, but what I was impressed by is how much he just lays his cards out on the table
on what really made Dr. Craig become a Christian.
And these are the same things that really made me, when I started becoming a Christian,
become one.
And I don't know if there are psychological reasons ultimately underlying why I was capable
and willing to go beyond the Pascal's wager argument that is it worth the risk of not
believing God and then spend eternity in hell?
Because the whole thing that sells Craig into this belief system to begin with is this
loving God that's going to save you.
Let's dive into what Craig's questioner asks and how they phrase it to Dr. Craig on his
podcast and how Craig responds.
Next question.
Hello, Dr. Craig.
I've enjoyed your ministry and it's helped strengthen my faith over the years.
But I have recently been having troubling thoughts in my mind.
My trouble is that one of the things about Christianity is that it requires a lot of
work to follow.
First things first.
When I watched debates and audios and videos and I've got a box, I'm actually in the process
of moving right now where I collected DVDs, CDs from his ministry, if you will, for years.
This is true.
I mean, this caller is pointing it out like they helped strengthen my faith for a while,
made it seem like this is the truth and it's not just that this is the truth.
We can prove it.
We have evidence to prove that this is true.
Over the years of investigating and being critical and talking to critical scholars,
I wouldn't put this in the proof category.
It'd be more in the faith category.
The questioner's talking about the kind of work and effort that goes into Christianity
and what is being meant here.
So let's hear his question as he's poking into this.
In order to follow Christ, you have to orient your entire life around him.
She's not just a set of propositions that one holds, but it's a faith practice, a way
of life.
With that in mind, this is clearly factual based on the text of the New Testament.
The more you try to mimic what the New Testament says to be honest with you, the more you don't
look like the rest of the world.
And this is why I want to lay out what does biblical Christianity actually say and what
does it show?
The more you mimic Jesus and the teachings we find within the New Testament and the more
you actually want to follow in those footsteps, the more strange you will look compared to
the rest of the world.
The more you act completely different than the rest of the world and the more radical
you act in terms of against this world, you're probably being more faithful to Jesus.
Keep that in mind.
And I couldn't even completely do it as I admit I tried, but it was like, this is not
easy to do.
It really requires a lot.
So that's why there's doctrines like one saved always saved and you're going to just fall
short no matter what.
But Jesus carries you through those shortcomings, but there are texts in the New Testament like
in Hebrews where if you send once, you can't crucify Christ all over again and that's it.
There's even blaspheme of the Holy Spirit.
What does that even mean in the age to come?
Your sins won't be forgiven like Christians debate this.
They don't even know what this really means.
They think when I'm talking in tongues that I've blasphemed the Holy Ghost, well, I guess
I'm not forgiven in the age to come.
Wouldn't the smart thing to do is require very high epistemic standards before one decides
they will dedicate their life to Christ?
Isn't it smarter to really have good evidence?
These extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence.
Well, it's not just that.
It's like these extraordinary claims which expect extraordinary behavior and desire of
our own inclinations and everything that we do.
So now we need to mimic and act a certain way.
It's not just I need to believe that something really, really improbable on what I normally
see happens and I'm supposed to believe that happened.
It's also I am changing my whole life to this.
Shouldn't we raise our expectations on the data, the evidence to prove this is true rather
than just accept it?
If you're going to live for Christ, then wouldn't it be smart to actually meet Jesus Christ
in person or even talk to his mother Mary or an angel?
I know you often mention.
I totally agree.
Like I tell Christians all the time, they go to Matt Dilley-Hunty and others and they
say, what would prove to you?
What would the evidence be that would convince you?
And I can't say with certainty what it would be.
But I would say if Jesus actually appeared to me, like that would came to me actually
showing that this is the case was able to prove go beyond the boundaries of my skepticism.
God would know if there's a God, Jesus would know if he seated at the right hand of God
how to do that.
But I'm looking at all these other examples like Enoch was actually the Son of Man who
seated at the right hand of God a century or two before Jesus.
So is Jesus and Enoch sharing this right hand seated at the right hand of God?
Are they both sitting in a throne at the right hand of God?
My point is there's a lot of epistemic reasons to doubt and go, what the heck is going on?
Which one's true?
Which one's not?
Well, I want that appearance and I'm not the kind of skeptic who just blows it off.
I will tell you that Jesus could do this.
God could do this, but it doesn't happen.
The witness of the Holy Spirit as a way that one can have direct access to God, but I have
done meditative prayer and deep meditation for years upon years and nothing has come
up in terms of God speaking to me directly where I know it wasn't just my own imagination.
I've had this happen where I thought God was speaking to me and I can't say that it
was God.
I did at the time, I would tell other Christians it was God that spoke to me like I heard a
voice in my head and things like that.
But I really realize how complex the mind is and how I myself talk to myself all the
time when it comes to the day-to-day basis of when I'm recollecting on what I need to
do or thinking at night, I'll think and I'll hear my own voice in my own head.
And that voice can sound subtle and soft or tough depending on what emotions I'm bringing
to the table.
But oftentimes it would come when I'm in quiet time where I would pray and ask God or when
I was in the midst of worship or I would be sitting there praising God and I would want
to hear God's voice so I'd start to hear my own voice in my own head.
And this is the thing that I think a lot of Christians think is God, is their own mind.
And I want to understand ourselves better in what we can know in a natural world before
I would go and jump to some radical superstitious.
We know that this is the metaphysical.
We know this is God talking to us stuff and you're going to hear Craig even get into this.
Many of my fellow Christians have had similar concerns on this also.
This is perhaps my biggest struggle and I cannot seem to get it out of my head.
This sounds like an honest person who's really struggling just like each one of us ex-Christians
who are deep into this.
We're all trying to figure it out.
As it is causing me to abandon the Christian life because I cannot have high epistemic
confidence that Christianity is true, Kyle, in the United States.
So before Craig answers, I just want to say he's desperate and doesn't know how to...
There's a struggle going on here.
And I think that Kyle from the United States is also struggling with, I don't have this
good evidence.
To the contrary, I have this struggle with really strong evidence to say Jesus exists
and did these things that we're thinking he did, like he actually resurrected from the
dead and things.
And then also this idea of hell, I wonder if Kyle has been brought up like all of us
to think we're going to suffer and be punished if we don't believe.
Things he has a special place full of fire and smoke and burning and torture and anguish
where he will send you to live and suffer and burn and choke and scream and cry forever
and ever till the end of time.
But he loves you.
There's this trap because at the end, when all else fails, they still got you by the
punishment of God, God's wrath, God's punishment.
Do you really want to risk it?
Do you really want to risk it?
Now let's listen to how Craig answers this.
When I first heard the message of the gospel as a non-Christian high school student that
my sins could be forgiven by God, that God loved me.
He loved Bill Craig.
And I can tell Craig's really diving into his emotions here, like he is really wanting
to tap into that gut emotional feeling here.
And I just want to say what you're not really seeing in this is while he's saying that God
he's forgiving of sins, the gospel message for giving of sins, the real repercussion
is that you will get punished and you will go to hell for your sins.
This is the gospel message.
But notice Craig is getting really focused on the emotion of a caring friend willing
to forgive you for those evil sins that you've committed against this God in a world that
you didn't ask to come into.
You didn't choose to come here and be born.
And here you are being told you need to accept something on low epistemic value here or else
you're going to burn for all eternity by this all loving God.
And this is really where so many illogical conclusions come from and why people like
Kyle are questioning Christianity because we can actually ask the questions today.
And we're getting answers that make more sense that it's not really true.
It's a faith based thing.
And so Craig's very emotional here, tapping into that love side wanting to steer you away
from thinking that really, really bad, dark, evil, wicked, fire, hell, eternal, all of that.
And that I could come to know him and experience eternal life with God.
I thought to myself and I'm not kidding.
That's the chief end of man that we used to read about in the West Minister Confession
of Faith.
I thought if there is just one chance in a million that this is true, it's worth believing.
That's where it was like, I've heard Craig say in his debates that the Holy Ghost and
the witness of the Holy Ghost and the witness of the Holy Ghost, which we're going to get
into.
But if there's this one chance in a million that it could be true, I'm going to go with
that one chance.
And it reminds me of that famous clip, the famous one that we've seen from dumb and
dumber that I just, it's a classic.
Who doesn't love this scene?
I mean, it cracks me up to think about it, but it's true.
This is exactly what Craig is, he's holding on.
If there's one chance, what if there's one chance that Zoroaster is God or a Huramasta
and the system of the Zoroastrians and they have a lake of fire that you're going to get
cast into because you didn't accept the true, the true God.
What if Baha'ism is true or some other worldview is Islam and Muhammad is the true prophet
of God and you Christian Trinitarians, while you just turned God into three and made polytheism
as Muslims love to accuse Christians of.
Now we're not talking to Unitarians, but now you're screwed.
What if there's one chance Muhammad was the guy and they have their data points that they
think prove their religions true?
What if there's some pre-Judaism, form of Yahwism or Elohim or El and Canaanite religion
or Baal might been the true God?
What if Baal was the true God and Yahweh usurped it and these corruptors kicked us away from
the true God?
Baal.
I mean, like what if polytheism and Hinduism is the way or Buddhist hells are there for
those who aren't going to hit Zin and aren't going to reincarnate whatever version of Buddhism
that you are going into and you have falsely followed the wrong religion and now you, Pascal's
wager, are going to possibly be punished.
And so my attitude toward this is just the opposite of Kyle's, far from raising the
bar or the epistemic standard that Christianity must meet to be believed.
I lower it.
And I know I get it because the message, it's a message that they're selling you a gospel
and this message taps into something deeper than words of wisdom.
Paul talks about how the gospel is foolishness to the world, foolishness to the wise.
But this is why I think there's an emotional psychological thing that Paul from the gate
was from the get go out the gate was already doing this.
He even talks about this idea that if I was doing wise words, someone with better wise
words would have come in after poetically and just swept you off your feet and you would
have left the gospel to go seek after some philosophy that's more lofty words.
But the gospel isn't wise words.
It's like it's like a nuclear bomb that penetrates deep into one's psyche and emotions and gets
you to buy into stuff that you don't need any epistemic evidence for.
The Corinthian church, the Galatian church, none of these Christians saw Jesus rise from
the dead.
None of these Christians actually had any evidence.
All they had was hearsay and a gospel message, a message of hope, a message of salvation for
the soon apocalyptic end, which never happened.
It failed.
Paul's apocalypse didn't happen and they bought it.
Why did they buy it?
Well, they had to have tapped into something the same way Craig's being tapped into the
same way I was tapped into at that private private school, which was a Christian private
school where they told me if you've told one lie, then you've told another lie to cover
up that lie.
And those are sins.
And there's a God and his son who was sent to earth to forgive you for those sins that
you've committed and the sins you may commit in the future, the kind of Christianity that
was being told to me.
And I went down to that altar that day and I felt warm and sensational.
Now I look to science and I investigate to know why in that setting and that circumstance
with that message, would they have been tapping into simple things that as a child, if I was
never raised with Christianity, my parents gave me love, but I've also offended my parents
that I love.
I've done things I shouldn't have done.
And the same offenses that I felt as a normal human being that I felt as a child of my parents,
I was starting to feel just one step further with a father in heaven that I had offended.
But it's okay.
His son forgives me, skipping over the gore of him having to kill his own son, sacrifice
his own son and all that comes with it.
It was a package deal that they skip past the skeptical that Kyle has there.
They're skipping right past that skeptical and Craig's pointing out and there's honesty
here.
I am doing the opposite of what Kyle's doing being skeptical.
I'm letting that warm and fuzzy buttery message melt within my psyche and it comforted me.
Let's continue.
I think that this is a message which is so wonderful, so fantastic that if there's any
evidence that it's true, then it's worth believing in.
So here's the deal.
I agree with Craig.
When I was a Christian, that message at that moment, when they gave me the guilt, once they,
what is it, the atonement is kind of, they say when Jesus' blood was shed, it's, I can't
remember the theological term, my brain is shot right now from the sun, but it's pretty
much that his blood had completely cleansed me of my sins.
Here's a legal payment.
Well, that sin was just charged to me when they gave me the gospel message and gave me
the guilt that I didn't feel before I heard this message.
They were also giving me a cure for the disease that they were giving me.
They were giving me the disease of this guilt and then they were trying to give me the cure.
So in that moment, that message, definitely once you've sold me on the disease, I want
the cure and anything about the cure starts to sound good.
So at the end of the day, I agree with Craig here as this atheistic skeptic, as someone
who totally is a skeptic, I agree with Craig.
I get it.
This message sounds wonderful at this moment.
And so I don't, Kyle is beyond that at this point.
He's starting to investigate the whole thing.
And Craig is saying, now that I have felt this presence of warmth, I have felt this
Holy Spirit and I want the message that I want the cure for the disease that they gave
me, I am not interested in poking holes.
I'm now, and this is my own experience and it sounds like Craig's, going to go out of
my way to prove that this is true or investigate if it's true.
And we've seen this with other apologists who've said that they wanted to go and debunk
the faith.
Lee Strobel, they spent years investigating this to prove it wrong.
And then they were proven that it was true.
And we've already seen that falsified with others like Dr. Kip Davis has done an investigation
on Lee Strobel and has shown that that's just another, he's selling you his gospel message.
Lee Strobel has invented his own gospel message of how he came to know that Christianity is
true.
So I ask everybody to remember that this is that torpedo.
This is that nuclear psychological making you feel guilt to give you the cure for the
disease.
Especially when you compare it to the alternatives.
Now we're comparing it.
Now we have to compare it to the alternatives.
Believe in Jesus or go to hell for all eternity or you could spend eternity with God, which
could be pleasures and all these things.
Or you might be looking at Islam, who knows, whatever worldview, the different worldview
options, all eternity burning in an eternal conscious torment or be cooked away with annihilationalism
or you can come up with some other, I would say dubious proposition of, you know, universalism
where everyone gets saved in the end.
Then really what's the point?
Do we really have to go with Pascal's wager?
We're all going to end up in the same place at the end.
Let's see what he says like naturalism or atheism.
I know I'm not going to get caught up in this whole thing with Dr. Craig about naturalism.
But I look around, I see the world, I see everything that exists and I observe and the
experiences that I have and the natural world and the natural order.
That to me is simply naturalism.
Like, I mean, it's almost like the way I would, and I'm not trying to straw man here.
I really want to make the point.
You all, everybody watching lives within a natural world and naturalism is what we see.
So what he's saying is the alternative is to just face your world off of what you already
live in from a day-to-day basis and what we observe and experience on day-to-day basis.
Even those experiences that people say are visions and this and that, which I think come
down to a natural phenomena within the brain and within nature itself that we are experiencing.
That to me is naturalism.
He makes this ism like it's a religion, like it's an alternative thing.
And I've heard this before.
But really, it's the idea that I just don't believe that there are any gods and that you
can get into the philosophical arguments about this.
Like, I know there are no gods, or you could say, I'm more like this agnostic atheist, whatever.
But let's see what he has to say continuing.
The more other forms of life, other forms of life, I'm curious to see what he thinks
about that because he said naturalism and atheism.
I'm wondering if he's like ruling out any other alternative except his special Christianity.
And this is the only one.
And I know because I used to do it.
And I don't know what it takes to go from that Christian to the person like Kyle.
I don't know what it is that gets us to actually start investigating this thing honestly and
poking holes.
If there are holes, I want to find them.
But I'm telling you, when you get sold that message, it's like they hand you this basket
of goodies and they say, here is your fix a flat, here is your wall patch, here is your,
you know, drywall, all the holes you might find within the house of Christianity.
We've got the fix it.
So you can find a way with this with this basket of tools that we're giving you to prove
your own faith that you just felt that you experienced the Holy Ghost, you know, and
you can go and you can prove it now.
Why?
Well, just cover up all these holes and we're going to make it all look nice.
But behind those walls are so many holes and problems.
And that's why I go to critical scholarship recently made a post asking Muslims when you
investigate the Christian claims or you're investigating the New Testament, where do
you go?
They're going to go to Apologist, but I want to study from critical scholarship because
I think there's more honesty there.
They're not going out of their way to try and prove their religions true.
There's more of like, here's the evidence and now make up your mind.
And that's what I wanted to do with Islam.
And there's not a lot of that over in the Islamic side, even though there is that.
I just haven't had good luck with tons of academics in the field like I find within
Bible study or biblical studies.
If Kyle really knows what it's like to experience the love of God and to have this hope in
eternal life and forgiveness of sins, then it seems to me that he will gravitate toward
that.
If Kyle really knows what it's like to be loved by his mother and his father in this
real world, his actual parents who birthed him, then even if he doubts them or has troubles
with them, no matter what, he will gravitate towards trying to mend the relationship as
best he can, especially if they've shown him love, if they gave him a warm and comfortable
feeling as parents who've tried their best to help him and to be there for him when he
needed it, to survive as a child, to bring him up when he needed to get his first house
for rent or he was struggling down and out or he was dealing with a breakup or he's depressed
or he's going through something.
His mother and father were there for him psychologically and emotionally.
And so that love and comfort, he then would recognize that even in tough times of life
and gravitate toward his parents.
Now those are real things that we can actually empirically show.
But what if I could tell you that Darren Brown, the magician, the mentalist, has done this
and he has made atheists, scientists, become believers in a power greater than themselves
by tricking them into it psychologically and emotionally.
Here's a short little snippet of that scene from Darren Brown's clip.
You should go watch the full video.
It is in the description, but he tells you from the outset that he is going to make these
people believe and he knows how to get them psychologically to do it.
And even once she knows that he tricked her, she still is kind of damaged by that and doesn't
know what to do with the experience.
What's over us, but how do we make it a reality in our lives?
We need to personify it.
We hope that this force is strong and wise and loving and all the attributes found in
a classic father figure.
The first technique I'm going to use on Natalie is to elicit feelings of this powerful father
figure which later on I can get her to attach to the idea of God.
So I'm going to use this innate tendency to see an agency at work to help give Natalie
her conversion experience.
I'm going to do it by asking questions and then subtly suggesting the idea that a plan
could be at work.
It's actually really interesting talking to you because I do think there are so many
beliefs and I suppose new experiences, things that are new and surprising that could literally
be right in front of us and we don't even quite register that they're there.
What do you think about that?
Darren actually used what he knew she had experiences from her wonderful father and
her wonderful mother in her life.
Her father's her hero used the same things for her parents and then applied it to an
invisible being that isn't there and made her actually accept it.
And Darren's an atheist.
Now he acted like he was a priest or a religious figure of some sort giving her this message
but it only took 15 minutes.
Now let's get back to Craig.
Alternative, it would be so attractive and that it would take really, really decisive
disproves to make him give up.
I wonder if you asked a Hindu or a Muslim this very question, you know, would you give
it up?
They have the same anatomy that we do.
They experience the same attachments to their gods and experience these things.
And so I imagine if you asked Muslims or Hindus or any other world religion, how would they
feel and they would feel the same way Craig's describing his Christianity attraction and
Kyle's reaction to this right now.
I just I think it's special pleading is Christian faith and abandon it.
Now when I talk about the witness of the Holy Spirit, I don't mean God speaking to me directly
in the way Kyle describes God doesn't speak to me directly either in that sort of way
as an inner voice, but I just mean a kind of fundamental assurance.
This is like, what do you mean?
What do you really mean?
Oh, I just I have this confidence in my gut, like I feel confident.
That's exactly what Mormons describe when they are actually approached by other Christians
debating them.
The Mormons experienced this fundamental assurance within their stomach or gut feeling
like instinctual feeling that they feel that's natural, by the way.
And if you tap into people's psyche with certain messages, you're going to tap into
their natural inclinations.
I mean, there are ways to trigger people's instinct, even with messages.
If you trick people, this is why they talk about, you know, sugar pills.
You're able to trick people, psych them and tell them it's poison after they swallowed
it and they thought it was medicine.
They'll start projectile vomiting because they think they ate rat poison.
What the heck is this?
I mean, they're literally tricking you and you believe it and it causes physical,
psychological, actual reactions in the natural world with just a trick, a mental game, a
sugar pill.
And it's it's really it's really one of those things that we have observed and we know.
And I think this is what Christianity sells us.
One's faith is true.
People often talk about this as the assurance of salvation.
And I think that is the privilege.
I felt that too.
I experienced all of that.
That's why it annoys people like me when we hear the the, you know, the Calvinist come
in and say, you never believed you never had actual faith.
You never had God.
And, you know, they'll say, oh, well, you had that little seed parable where the seed
grew up sprouted for a short time and then it dissolved.
And I think Christianity has all of these little fireproof ways of making you no matter
what have to keep sticking inside of the box.
And once you get outside of a certain layer, they do you want to go to hell forever?
You know what?
You were just one of those seeds.
The unless you stick it out and you have become like a little child, gullible, unless
you become like a little child and just accept the message and don't be critical,
don't try to examine this stuff, just be someone who accepts what are being told.
And that's it.
Well, hmm, you're not getting far in Christianity.
I could tell you that much of every born again Christian.
So I hope that Kyle is more than just a nominal Christian that he's really come to
experience the regenerating power of the Holy Spirit and that he's indwelled.
Oh, you know, I go back and I look at someone who's left.
And I think to myself, what does that even mean?
That this is all about feelings and all the sophisticated argumentation
that Craig has brought to the table for years, really what really underlines
everything Craig says about his faith and about Christianity boils down
to what is being said in this recording.
Without a doubt, it all boils down to this.
This is honesty.
Craig's laying his cards out on the table.
And I had the same experience.
That's how I know that what Craig is saying is really what Christians think
and what they really experience.
I can't say every Christian because not everyone experiences the same things.
But when you're like Craig and you experience what Craig has been saying,
and there have been hundreds of thousands of Christians, I'm sure,
in the world who relate to what Craig's saying, I relate to this.
And I know exactly what's going on here.
And this is about feelings.
I felt these feelings, too.
And filled with the Holy Spirit, because I think then that removes the huge
epistemic bar that he thinks you need to get over in order to become a Christian.
There you have it.
So if you go off your gut and you're a Hindu or a Mormon or a Muslim
and Christians are telling you their message, you know, in your gut,
that you're right, you already know that it's true because you've been told
these certain passages in the Bible somehow point to your prophet Muhammad
or somehow talk to talk about your prophet Joseph Smith or Hinduism
with your gods and your traditions are very old.
You already know that it's true.
So when Christians approach you, start talking like this.
No, you already know from your experience that it's true.
And I hope that with your experience that, you know, I know there's not
a lot of epistemic requirements there.
I mean, it really doesn't take a lot in my conversations with those.
The just Muslims online, for example, or talking to Christians online,
for example, look at the prophecies, Jesus fulfilled.
And it's like, couldn't they have written that after?
Yeah, the New Testament authors could have written using the Bible
that already exists to write their own narrative.
And they did. Oh, well, when you look at Islam, when you find these vague
passages in the Bible, they point it to Muhammad, Muhammad fulfilled them.
Oh, Joseph Smith fulfilled them.
And each Christian or each follower or whatever the religion is do the same thing.
And they think that that meets their epistemic satisfaction, that their religion is true.
And because other people believe it, well, it's not so dumb for me to believe it
because other people believe it.
And if a lot of people believe in the same thing, it's not so dumb.
It's not so false as long as all of us follow the same thing.
And that's the thing. I just think Pascal's wager.
I joke around a lot on myth vision and tell people,
if you really don't want to burn in hell for eternity, join MythVision's Patreon
so you can receive early content. I'm serious.
Do you really want to risk it?
I'm Johnny, come lately of the prophets, but I'm going to lay it out there
more true than all the other prophets because I don't say they're not prophets
to some degree, but they're not the true, true prophet.
MythVision is. And do you really want to risk cooking in hell for all eternity?
See, I have a once saved, always saved become a patron and that's it.
Like I joke around and to be like this, but how do you know that I'm not
telling you the truth? I might be the true prophet.
How do you know that's not true?
I brought a lot of facts to the table here at MythVision
and had a lot of people realized that, wow, he's on the right track.
Maybe they're seeing the truth.
Let those who have eyes, see and ears hear the truth that is coming from MythVision.
And if you might have found this true, well, you know, flesh and blood
did not reveal these things to you, but MythVision has done so in heaven.
We could do this all day long.
I really appreciate you.
I appreciate Paula Gia for his wonderful output.
There have been other videos that have been created off of this
and funny ones that have kind of pointed out, but I wanted to seriously take
the time to tell you what I really think it boils down to.
And it boils down to that experience, the human experience.
And there's that God of the Gap stuff that comforts people like consciousness.
Where's consciousness come from?
Does consciousness in a mind precede the natural phenomenon of what we call brains?
Yeah, I'm a dualist or I'm a in the list goes on.
And it's like, hmm, I'm looking at the science.
And I think that we're going to figure out at some point how this works
as we keep investigating and studying and approach this world with scientific
methods and raise our epistemic value of what we appreciate as evidence to believe in.
Apart from that, there are hundreds of thousands of superstitions in the world.
Pick one and believe it, I guess.
Or be skeptical, find meaning in what we know and observe, find meaning
in our loved ones, our family, our friends and the communities that we value.
That's the best way, I think, to go forward, because I am totally content today.
And I don't need a God or Jesus or religion to do so.
I enjoy studying what I do and doing this full time.
But you don't have to have those things in order to find meaning, purpose
and value in life.
Join MythVision's Patreon today to access hundreds of videos that I have worked hard
in the high quality content that are not in public domain.
They're only on the Patreon.
You will also have direct access to me, referring academics, questions, ideas
or just want a private chat.
You have that access with me.
Also, I'm trying to do more traveling to educate people from more academics
and expand what kind of material I do produce on MythVision.
This is a full time gig and you're helping the community by joining.
I'm trying to put together more to educate people who have harmful cultic
practices or ways in which they're harming society.
We are educating them from MythVision on better understanding these ancient
texts and mythologies and history in a way like not many shows do.
So please, I could use your help and you're going to get and benefit a lot
by joining as a member.
