Ladies and gentlemen, this is a documentary, Witness Underground that's coming out soon.
I get to talk to the producer and one of the film actors on this whole thing.
They're both ex-Jahovas witnesses and they're actually trying to get more people exposed
to their upcoming documentary. Let me know what you guys think in the description of this video.
Make sure you like it and share this out because the cult, this high-control cult like this has
caused a lot of damage. But the one thing they do in this video is they don't come down harsh on
the Jehovah's Witnesses, but they show you a strange group within the group,
starting to break out and freedom arising within. Let me know what you guys think and join the
Patreon because this will be released early. Thanks.
MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
We're going to be talking to ex-Jahovas witnesses actually. I think both of you guys are ex-Jahovas
witnesses if I'm not mistaken. That's correct. Yeah. Wow. And so there's a documentary currently.
We're going to be discussing this upcoming documentary you guys are going to want to get
and check out as soon as it's released called Witness Underground. And both the gentlemen you
see on the screen, Ryan Sutter and Scott Homan. Am I saying that correct? That's right.
Yeah. They both are part of this. I'm not sure who the producer is exactly. You guys can maybe
fill us in on the details. But what is this documentary about? And tell us about this,
you know, what the story is. Yeah, I'll give you a quick synopsis, I guess. So imagine a music scene
that emerges within a cult, within a high-control religion. We're not really allowed to interact
with people on the outside. And so they're isolated and it emerges. And then because they're sort of
more free thinking, the people all of a sudden started leaving their religion for various reasons
can kicked out or like deconverting themselves and like what that process is like. So the film kind
of takes you through, takes the audience through that process. And then you sort of have a,
you sort of see what their life is like after that and how that affects their lives and their
families and their music. I actually was watching snippets of it. And I thought to myself, it is
a strange world when such a high-control group keeps you from even being allowed to play certain
music, dance certain ways. You're not even allowed to write your own type of praise and worship music.
And, you know, like that goes against God. So I was a PCA Presbyterian church. And in fact, that
was something in that strict version of it where we were only playing from a piano and they had
hymns books. So you needed to work out of those. I'm sure the Jehovah's Witnesses have something
similar. Ryan, would you, would you be interested in commenting on that? Like what, because he's
taking us and showing us like it's almost like a social cult, not a high-control cult, but a
social cult of music, if you will, within a high-control cult that's harmful. And now you guys
are like, we're gonna fit in. Well, yeah, I mean, I kind of thought of it as like a community within
a community, you know, where the Witnesses are very much about the world is going to end anytime
soon, right? So we're kind of expecting Armageddon to show up next Thursday and everybody's gonna
die. So with that in mind, it doesn't feel like a really awesome use of one's time to try to get
involved in pursuing a career of any sort, let alone like a musical career, creative career.
So Witnesses generally don't go to college because they're told not to go to that higher
learning. And they also generally don't really pursue even normal professional lines of work.
So kind of knowing those as the rules, being raised as Witness myself, but being raised by
a mother who was a singer in like bar and wedding bands, and we always had musical gear around the
house, it just kind of occurred to us when we were kids that like, oh, well, you know,
no, we're never going to go be professional musicians, we're never going to try to be rock
stars, we're never going to try to make it big. But we love doing this, and it's super fun,
and it's a great outlet. And it started as like kid stuff really, like quite legitimately. And then
the cool part was is that it became this community within a community because
other kids, you know, and teenagers and like young people in their 20s as we got older,
they were having the same general experiences, they were trying to process like living in the
last days and the world might end next Thursday and this like regimented world that they lived in.
And also they were using creativity as a way to deal with it. And we started to find each other,
you know, and at first we found each other through direct connections in like kingdom halls
and at meetings. But then when we went online, we started to connect across state lines, and we
started to connect, you know, with to this larger group of people. And it was just, I think everybody,
I've heard it from so many people that like, the minute they found out there were other people
doing this, like, they thought they were alone, they thought they were the only person who was
like sitting there with their guitar playing emo songs in their basement. And, and then they were
like, Oh, yeah, there's actually no official rule against this, we can do this as long as, you know,
as long as we don't try to go make it big and be all worldly. So it happened really organically,
there was never like a plan, but it was really neat, because it was like, we all felt like we
were kind of inside the Jehovah's bubble. And then inside that we made our own little community.
So if I, if I may probe, this is interesting, because many Jehovah's Witness ex Jehovah's
Witnesses talk about how, how controlling you are, like how controlling they are about
controlling what you can do. Did you guys experience elders approaching you saying,
this has got to stop? I mean, you cannot be doing this anymore. I don't care if there's not a written
rule, this is something that can't go on. I not not no, not not not directly. In fact, there
there was an elder in my congregation who fronted one of the bar bands, you know, the wedding bands.
And there were all these rules, right, with even with that to your point, like, even if you were
going to play just cover songs at somebody's wedding, you had to think about if a song might
be offensive to somebody in the audience. And they they would, there would usually be
what they called a master of the feast, who would be an elder who would oversee the gathering.
And they would vet the song list, they would say, you know, oh, you know, you can't play Earth Angel,
right? Because that's got a supernatural overtone that might be false religion.
And so the direct like, no, you can't do it didn't happen. And if you think about it, I mean,
Prince was a witness, went to local congregation in the Twin Cities. And he became a witness
because he studied with Larry Graham, who was the bass player for Sly and the Family Stone,
who was an elder in a congregation was still a witness. So there's no, you know, there's
there's a kind of a line to walk there, where the the the elders are not going to just come out and
be like, don't do this as long as you don't, as long as you're not committing immorality,
you're doing drugs or things like that. Huh. It makes me wonder, like, you mentioned, I think
it was you, Ryan mentioned there was, was it your wife? Yeah. Yeah. Do you want to tell us a little
bit about this? I mean, spoilers. Yeah, I don't know. Should we, should we, should we. No, it's in the
trailer. It's in the trailer. Yeah. That story. And I think we can. That's fine. I just wanted
to establish who we all are. So like, I directed the film. Okay. I have a I have a story that's
really similar to Ryan's in a sense, and that I was in a band. And I quit that band. It was like
a high school band. We played prom. We did all these things you're not really supposed to do,
but I got away with it. I joined a witness. I made a witness band around my own music.
But anyway, years later, I want to tell the story because Ryan's story and Ryan the whole
community that Ryan helped build from scratch. And his safe space he created for witnesses to do
art and express themselves was so much in a way much bigger. And it was a way to tell my story
without having me be in the film. And so Ryan eventually didn't just like make music as a kid.
He produced like 20 help helped produce him and his brothers helped produce like,
30 albums of amazing music. That's actually like super high quality music. And you get
to experience that in the film. There's like 42 songs that I selected from their huge archive of
music from many different bands. And like over a span of like 15, 16 years, where he used basically
a studio producer. And you know, they were DIYing it a lot and like had, you know, subpar equipment
because they're poor kids, but they made a lot of awesome music and great melodies. And like,
they're incredible song songwriters as well. So Ryan's not just some cable play music. He's also
like a music producer and still performs music to this day. Wow. I told the story with Ryan or
Ryan's interviews, like the core story. And there's another woman who hers is also pretty,
pretty close to the center of the story. And they knew each other and they work together on music,
their whole youthful life. And we're all still, you know, still friends after leaving the religion.
But real real quick, Scott, if you don't mind, it seems like in this documentary, you vicariously
lived through Ryan in a sense, so much of your life in lines up. It's like, you know, I don't have
to be a star in this show. But he, in a sense, is a reflection of my own story, which is why he is
a major player in this documentary. That's wonderful. So Ryan, if you would, don't give us
too much, but make us, you know, tell us Jerry Springer, just a smidge of Jerry Springer. And
then I would like to follow up with another question, if you don't mind.
Yeah, no, I don't mind. The Jerry Springer aspect is that when I had my big epiphany about sort of
losing my, losing my religion to quote R.E.M., right? I wound up in a conversation with my wife
at the time. And we literally, that was the last time we ever saw each other in person.
She asked me to leave. And this is the shortest possible version of the story, but she asked me
to leave. And when I came back, her parent, well, I didn't come back till the next day and her parents
had come from Chicago and picked her up and taken her away and took half the furniture out of my
apartment. So we got divorced long distance and never saw her again. So that was,
it was sudden. Let me put it that way, like wake up one morning and be like, wait a second.
And then within, you know, a couple of weeks, you're like, oh, well, here I am. And then you
mentioned it to your wife and now suddenly you're a bachelor again. Oh my goodness.
It seems like a while ago, I've gotten over it, you know, this documentary,
this is kind of a, you guys are enemies now of the church for this documentary, aren't you?
They ain't going to like it. Yeah, they're not going to like it. I was really careful not to
point a finger at the religion directly. And there's a lot of people who do that. And there's
a lot of YouTube channels that specifically target the watch tower. So we target the Bible
and track society that is the book corporation that has a factory in New York that's been making
this literature for hundreds or 120 years selling immortality, giving away immortality for free
for your, you know, as long as you knock on doors and try to proselytize. Anyway, like this,
we're not trying to like take them down. What is really important to me that,
there's a lot of things we could say about this religion that are definitely a problem.
And they're not dealing with it. Like there's problems with child sexual abuse.
There's problems with, yeah, there's just a lot of problems. They're trying to brainwash people
and they're using coercion and undue influence to, and it's wreaking havoc on a lot of people's lives.
But my big thing, because I didn't really deal with those, well, at least with, you know,
the child sexual abuse is not my topic. I dealt with shunning. And so my family
have disowned me. And it's weird because like you would think those tools to,
they try to bring people back with this basically solitary confinement is what they impose on you
immediately. But the day you admit the thought crime of that you don't, you're not sure that
something that they teach is correct or not. They cut you off and they're like, well, we can't
talk to you anymore because you're now like, you don't believe every single thing we told you to
believe. You're not obeying us 100%. So we no longer can talk to you. So they do this shunning,
which is complete isolation from your community and your family. And then that just never ends.
That's until you die or you spend a year in solitary confinement, essentially going to the
church and everyone ignores you for a year. You could go three days a week or two days a week
now. And or now it's over zoom call, but you have to show up and your camera has to be on apparently.
You don't go through that process and like bow before them and like give up all of your
rights to intellectual just free thinking capabilities. You have to give that over to them
and just obey and convince them that you believe everything that they say. If you don't do that,
you never talk to your families for the rest of your life. And they cut you off. They put this,
they're like inside a cage and they'll close the cage door and they're like, we're not talking to
go away. There's no other options than that. There's no graceful way out. If you've ever
been baptized, you can sort of become inactive and stop going and your family can kind of stay
in touch with you, but they most people will choose not to. But there's no like, you know,
the difference between somebody who is a child molester who gets kicked out of the church,
which too many of them don't, but if that happens and a person who just doesn't believe in the
doctrine, they're treated the same. The shunning is the one size fits all punishment for anybody
who stops being a witness. And different families may actually implement it a little bit differently.
Some families are more strict than others. Some are more lenient than others.
But that plays a big role in the movie because again, to Scott's point, like the point of the
movie here is not doctrinal. It's not a take down of the witnesses. It's not a hate on the
watchtower. We all had a lot of fun when we were witnesses. Like to be honest, we had a blast
and we had a lot of really good friendships and a lot of really great stuff.
But it is the reason that the witnesses don't really like this kind of thing is because it
highlights a very cruel policy that they have. And that does not make them look particularly good
in the public eye.
Yeah. So the key topic of the film really, the point of it is how the culture works. I wanted
to humanize the Jehovah's Witnesses because most people don't know and they think of them as an
other. And that sucked being a witness, being treated completely differently than the rest of
society because I was always like one foot in, one foot out. I had what they call worldly friends,
which is non-witnesses. This is also a strange term. It's like they otherwise the rest of the
world and they dehumanize them for their own cultural group. So this film humanizes the Jehovah's
Witnesses through the artists because we build, it's like we do world building of what it was
like to be an artist in that culture and how that worked for those teenagers and early 20-somethings
and that whole like community and art scene. And then these exit stories does, one of the
points is like to humanize the people on the outside for the Jehovah's Witnesses who might
watch this or someone who's just as curious because they're all just very understandable
people but really highlights how the shunning affects people and how serious they take that and
how dark they get really with how they tear their own families apart with this.
I think that's an interesting point you bring up, Scott and Ryan. I mean,
I'm not against religion. I am against harmful practices that I know aren't going with modern
times on certain things and that's just the way it is. That's been my goal all along is to kind of
try and make jabs and get the attention of people like the witnesses and others.
And hear the voice of the ex-Jehovah's Witnesses say, look, this is what was damaging. My parents
still won't talk to me till this day. That kind of stuff. I want to change that. I don't think
I'm ever going to change superstition or beliefs and things that are beyond us. And I don't,
sometimes I think it's useful and necessary for some, even though I myself don't identify
anymore in that. So I respect people's faith, but this is the stuff that really gets my blood
boiling, if you will. It really does. Yeah. But you in the music industry within this high control
cult, can you give us some details? Maybe not too much because your documentary is going to go
into this. It seems like someone mentioned in the video they were homosexual and they killed
themselves or something like this, if I'm not mistaken. So that's another problem I see. And
it's not just the JWs. I don't want to call out just one group, but this same policy, this same
idea. I'm trying to make a change in the world, if you will, Lon. Can you maybe communicate on this?
I'll tell a very brief anecdote. We were at a witness convention, and I was there with my
brother, and he had just released a new CD. And we were sitting at a table with a friend of ours,
and we were talking about Rhett's new record. And this other guy at the table with us was super
excited. And he said, I want to buy a copy. I want to buy a copy. And I said, well, of course, you
know, it's $7 or whatever. And so he wrote me a check. I put it on my wallet. I was going to go
to the bank to deposit it after there was a weekend, like the convention went over the weekend. And so
I was like, oh, so next week I'll run to the bank. I'll deposit this and I'll mail him a check.
And then unlike Tuesday, I got a call from my brother that he had hung himself. And
they turned out he had left a suicide note. And it was because I'm gay. And I just spent three
days at a convention listening to this and feeling terrible. And I know that Java will never approve
of me. And I'm just sitting there staring at his check. It was like, that I was still a witness
at the time. And it just made me just I was devastated for months. And I didn't even I didn't
know he was gay, right? And I found out from his suicide note. Yeah. And so yeah, that that that's
I would love to say that's like the only time that I know of somebody who's gay who committed
suicide that I happen to know. But I actually that's not the only one I know. So it's
but that one that that that was really hard. I'm not that's hard for me to even talk about it now.
And that kind of stuff just should not happen. I mean, I was just like he was he was a he was
a lovely guy. And and he shouldn't have to go and sit for a weekend being told that
nothing he does about who he is is ever going to get approved by the God he worships. And that
that life eternal is not for him, right? It's for everybody else. And and you know,
I don't tell that story in the movie, but that that's that's the kind of thing that happens.
Yeah, I think I saw a brief just a brief moment where something was mentioned and it literally
just went right past it didn't dwell on it. But thank you for the details. Scott, would you like
to comment on that, sir? There's it's a it's a really big problem. And this religion, they're
very homophobic. They're not hiding it. They're very open about it. And
like the very first few people I worked with on this project, I made like a series called
actually w coming out. So that's on Patreon and also YouTube actually documentary, the very few
people I worked with were also are all by or gay. And that's part of the reason that inspired
that project was and this movie came out of this whole thing. Even though our film doesn't really
focus on the LGBT aspect of of this, like the very first prototypes that they did.
And what they're like the lucky ones, because they were, they had, I don't know, they felt like
they had self worth, which this religion doesn't teach them to have that. They were but when they
when they realized that they were gay, or when they got sort of comfortable with that concept,
they knew they had to get out of the religion when they came out gay.
Because that there is no future in that religion for anyone gay. God is I mean, okay, they will
say their teachings is that as long as you like, forget about your attraction to the same sex or
whatever, whatever the sexual orientation is, you have to like, remove those, you know,
satanic desires or something like that. And, and you and they really want you to either stay
celibate for the rest of your life. And in their case would be eternity, or have a heterosexual
relationship, even if you're gay, they like there's a and there's a lot of homosexual or
LGBTQ people that stay in the religion and get married to someone in a heterosexual relationship.
And they're, you know, keeping in quiet what they really desire. And it's, I mean, I feel for
those people because they're like, they're like self they're trapping themselves in this religion.
And I can imagine I can't not can't even imagine like what what they must be going through. And
I think that all those all that from this culture, and then you hear homophobic things like I even
had this one woman in my last congregation before I left the religion in my mid 20s.
She she said God's going to lightning strike the gays with even more, you know, she she like
scream screamed it out like it was like so important to her that God would murder them
and smoke them out with lightning. It's like, wow, it's like the darkest thing I've ever heard. You
just want people to die around you. These are like people in your own congregation, you know,
she doesn't maybe she didn't believe anyone in her congregation was gay, but that's just an
emblematic of the spirits that in in, you know, imagine being gay and hiding it your whole life
and then hearing your friends and congregation community say that, like, you're doomed by your own
like community. Yeah, no wonder that they have low self worth and then feel there's no hope.
What is a religion that says that like promotes this idea that God loves you and like will bring
the paradise for you. But he's apparently going to if you do survive into their their fictitious
paradise, like, change you into someone else that's not gay, change your they even talk about
like he'll change your personality so you don't have to worry about these things in the future.
Right. Yeah, that's your hope. Wow. So this is the documentary for everybody who's watching.
This is based on real life people who've had real experiences. So the question then becomes
because this is based on reality, what was your purpose in doing this? I mean, it's obviously
you'd love to see policies change. But it's it is this is the purpose of this to educate the world
about this, these tiny group of people who try to do something new and different and unique
in a high control group that people aren't aware of. And you just want the world to know this
story so that maybe we could start changing some of this, maybe the world could start going in a
direction that prevents these type of things from happening. What what is really the purpose?
That's a good question. And I made me think of a few things. One of them is that generally people
think of the jobs when this is they're like, oh, they're the people who knock on your doors or
they're the people who celebrate don't celebrate Christmas, or they're not allowed to have birthdays,
birthday parties. And those are all true. And that's like the most surface level thing you
could say. And that's how most people interact or understand this religion. And they think, oh,
okay, they're just talking to me about the Bible or God, and they're generally harmless humans.
But they're not harmless. And I would say like the average witness is a victim. Like I you can
say that, you know, we left this and we're being treated by our families in this not ideal way.
And we are the victims. But like, I don't feel like a victim, I feel like I got away from something
that where I used to be a victim while I was in it. And I feel like my family's trapped in it.
And they don't really understand how to get themselves out of it because there's so many
barriers to exiting that like this community keeps you isolated. The other thing is like I was
making these videos for actually be coming out and I still have a whole like multiple hard drives
terabytes of content and wonderful interviews with wonderful people that I really am. I'm
sharing it on the Patreon, like privately. But what I was realizing is like, nobody's really
watching it. But the people who care about this stuff are also X shows witnesses. And they they
love it with it when they watch it. They're like, wow, that's great. Do more. Keep on doing this is
important for us. But it's really just an echo chamber. Like, it's the only people that really
understand understand why they should spend time watching this are also already know intimately
how this works. And I realized like there when I was a witness, I watched, there was like three
or four movies, one one documentary about the blood issue that which is there, they, they have a
weird medical policy, sort of like anti vaxxers, but they're not anti vaxxers, they're anti blood
transfusion or anti blood medicine. And like 30 on the conservative side, I've just researched on
this. Very conservative side, according to like the American Medical Association report,
somewhere between 30 and 50,000 people have died because they refuse blood, blood care over the
last like 40 years or so that this has been their official corporate policy.
So there's a documentary about that I watched that as a witness, there was a documentary called
to bear to their or truth be, let's see, be told as one, there's also another one and to bear to
their like, I can't exactly translate the Danish document or Danish narrative film that came out
when I was a witness in like the 2000s. And I watched that and that's really not like approved by
the witnesses at all, but it's like about the witnesses. So I watched it and I thought it was
very accurate as a witness. What I realized is like, I and many other witnesses watched the movies
that came out about our religion, even if we did it in secret. And I knew that if, you know, if I
make short videos and the witnesses are scared of that, they're not really allowed to watch,
they're not really even allowed to read certain things on Wikipedia, they're like self
controlling or auto policing, you know, themselves on what media they consume and what they read.
But witnesses will watch a movie on this religion. But I wanted to make sure that what's in the
what's in the religion, what's in the movie is like super accurate and very honest and like
humanizing to the point that if a witness did watch it, it would make them think differently,
maybe about the disfellowshipping policy or the shunning policy and like the religion.
The religion has come out and said officially that they don't do shunning, which is the biggest
lie of all, like there are two million ish ex witnesses that are out of this religion.
They absolutely 100% shun everyone, every single human who's left this religion
with very, very few exceptions. They might secretly talk to their kid because they love them or
something, but you're not supposed to. And they've never told anyone in the religion that they're
doing it. Also, a really important thing is a group of ex witnesses in Belgium did a class
action lawsuit a few months ago, and they won it against the big tried the Jehovah's Witness
religion in a criminal court in Belgium, the Supreme Court of Belgium, and they won against
the witnesses and they got a payout. But now the witnesses are appealing it. But like this is their
whole class action lawsuit was about shunning and how damaging it is. And the European court was
like, Yeah, there's religions guilty of like hate crimes, actually, and human rights violations,
according to the EU, the EU constitution. So like, there's movement here. And like, this is a very
serious thing. And it's really, really bad, not just for like us as ex witnesses, or witnesses and
how they have to break their own families up. But like, for society in general, we human rights
laws are important for all of society. And hate crimes are a problem for all of society. And
Jehovah's Witnesses are like, actively doing hateful things to the community of that large,
like the global world, like they're here in your neighborhood. And they are using this tool that's
super damaging. Like, the worst thing we do to our worst criminals in our, in our prisons is like
put people in solitary confinement, it's cause of mental health problems for like the rest of
the world. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. I actually felt when I watched the documentary
that it was like, it was, I mean, I'm not sensitive to this, to this content. So, but it felt like
I could imagine Jehovah's Witnesses actually watching this and not being overly offended.
They might even agree with content, because you are being accurate and saying, Yeah, no,
you're going to go to hell. Or yeah, it's the end is coming soon. Yeah, she should have left you,
Ryan, you know what I mean? Like these type of things in their head. It just, it's just mind
boggling. And I hope that it not only brings in, because it is a echo chamber, XJW is really
get deeply involved in XJW material. But I hope that the world at large takes a look at this and
realizes this too, because you're taking kind of a mix of secular musicians in a way that are inside
of a high control cult. And guys like Ryan are going through it and saying, I no longer believe
in this, but I want to stay connected. I love our relationships. I love this, but I just can't
believe this stuff anymore. And next thing you know, you're the enemy. And just for your thoughts,
it's wild. So, Ryan, would you like to comment on anything that Scott said?
Yeah, I would say I had maybe a simpler motivation for doing this.
My participation in this, right, involved Scott reaching out to me. He's like,
basically he knew, he already knew who I was because of my role in the past. But I didn't know him.
And we had never met. It was kind of cool. He was sort of a friend of a friend,
and he had been at shows that my band and other bands had played at, things like that.
But he reached out to me and he let me know about the kind of thing he was doing.
And I sort of gave him my 12 page write up of the story of what happened. And he's like,
yeah, we're going to, I need to interview you. So I thought about it. And it's like, well,
why do I want to do this? I mean, this could go badly. Nobody in my family is going to really,
they're probably going to not watch it. And they are probably going to judge it without
having watched it. And they're going to assume that its content is what it is. But I felt that
everything that happened in the documentary, everything the documentary covers was even the
painful stuff was a very high value to me and a very high value to a number of people. And it was
worth preserving preposterity, right? Like I wanted there to be, I wanted the creative work we did.
I wanted it to be celebrated. I told Scott that was important to me, but I didn't want a, you know,
Job's Witness is bad movie. I wanted a movie that was talking about how even in a controlled
environment like that, that creativity can flourish and that people can still like
do cool stuff. And I think that gives hope to younger people, maybe who are raised in this
in the future to be willing to do more, whether or not they even stay within the religion. It's
for them to think more for themselves, exercise more freedom of expression, feel like that they don't,
it's not all, you know, one or all the other that they can find a path that works for them.
And I feel like I was fortunate enough to live through something that was really special to
hundreds, maybe thousands of people at the time. And that it would be a real shame if
that just drifted off into history and lived as a archive of media in my basement.
So I opened up my archive to Scott and said, have at it.
Well, I'm, I really enjoyed it. I hope a lot of people who are watching this will stay tuned
and you're going to want to watch this for sure. Witness underground. Scott, when does this come
out? When can everybody actually jump in and see it? How's it going to, how's that going to work?
So I'm a first time filmmaker. This isn't my first project. It was my first feature length
project. And the first project I'm trying to take somewhere more into the real world,
like get it on a streaming platform. That's my big goal. I care more about
you know, wide viewership than anything else. I really think this message is,
and what the message of the film is really important. And it's also really fun to watch
because you get to experience this music culture that I had a lot of fun being a part of.
And the music, like, like I said, there's like 42 songs in the soundtrack. There's
like 30 albums of music. And a lot of it you can just download and listen to already,
like we have a band, he's got a band came out a couple of websites that show the archive,
you can go listen to this music now. What's the website, Brian?
ngpvault.bandcamp.com. Oh, actually, you can go to nuclear gopher.org too. There's a lot of stuff
there. It's just free streaming. It's all creative commons. You can do whatever you want with it.
Yeah, it's all, it's all old music we released a long time ago. We're not trying to monetize it.
We just kind of like it to be out there. And it's been out there for a long time.
But so yeah, so go listen to the music because like, if you don't experience it,
you're kind of missing out, there's some really awesome music on there. And
I'm running the film, I'm learning how to run it through the film festival circuit. And that's
kind of one of the paths to getting distribution. And it takes like an extra year. So like, I finished
the film this year, earlier this year. And, and the big motivation was to get it to stream at a
film festival. So like right now, we're at New York City Independent Film Festival, Ryan and I
are both in the same building in different rooms right now to have this conversation. But we're
here for a week to promote the film. And we have to screen it live once on Friday night. It's like
a premiere screening at the festival, which is awesome. Like the festival appreciate it. They
have 220 films are screening, but it's the Friday night 8 30 p.m. slot, which is great. We have
some podcasters coming in and another filmmaker who made a similar movie called Truth Be Told,
which you can also go watch now on that website. The theaters, the theaters just off Times Square.
So if any of your viewers are free Friday night and want to see this movie, they actually can
it connect. That's that's their only option to see it right now. I think this isn't going to air
in time, unfortunately, but we'll hopefully we'll another couple festivals will pick it up. So it's
basically we we have festivals kind of it's out for selection. And like we pay them a fee,
and they might select that they might not most of them rejected. But like, we get a few wins here
and there we got a big one that's coming up in November. And I can't tell you any more details
than that until until they announce it properly. But so probably early next year, we'll have a
distribution deal. Or I might do a there's there's a distributors rep, which I've just learned how
this is all working. But I'm going to hire them to farm it out to all the big documentary places
that will pick it up and do streaming distribution under their under their banner under their company.
So it's a it's a long process. And there's a lot to this behind the scenes, how you get a film from
you know, shooting, editing to festivals to distribution to finally people can push push
the button and play it part of their Netflix subscription or whatever the thing is. So next
year, but stay tuned to yeah, follow us on follow us on Instagram. It's WU the film with the film
witness underground at you know, Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. And we have website
witness underground.com you can follow you can watch the trailer there and read more about
this project this film but also the other project actually W coming out which we have the patreon
for it's actually WDOC is the patreon for actually W documentary YouTube channel actually W
documentary. Anyway, yeah, like, it's a it's a whole thing. It's a whole complicated process.
But next year, you can watch it. Absolutely. Ladies and gentlemen, go down in the description.
All the handles are there. You guys can go check them out, follow them, especially for an extra
of his witness, you might be interested in checking out this material and his other material on his
Patreon as well. Help join I'm sure it's not a lot simple to go in and yeah, go join help support
him and stay in contact with him because I'm sure if you're already doing one film, you might end
up doing more documentaries in the future. And yeah, so thank you so much gentlemen. I hope to
you know, get this out there, get more people aware of it. Let's do this again someday, especially
once it's out. I think we could do another follow up and discuss this so. Sounds great, Eric. Thanks
Thanks, Eric. It was pleasure. Thank you much. Nice to meet you.
Absolutely. And nice to meet you and ladies and gentlemen, if you don't know already,
we are MythVision.
