you know, making the church look good for this, do you think all that plays into this?
And I don't want to say like people are making things up or dishonest or anything.
I think everybody is honestly engaging in the community.
Did you ever experience things while you were a Christian that you thought were miracles or like
you were like, hold on, I can't explain this. John, welcome to MythVision. Thanks to you,
we actually have audio gear to actually do podcast, in-person stuff, courses, you name it.
But tell us about yourself. Who are you and where do you come from in terms of Christianity?
Yeah, I'm John Schenke. I was born in a Christian home and my dad was a lay pastor,
so a pastor that wasn't educated, you know, with like MDiv and all that kind of stuff,
just was interested in the Bible and serving and so became a pastor and he was that for most of my
life, something like, you know, over 30 years. And so I grew up in the church, in the church bubble,
going to church, probably, oh, I'd say five days a week, something like that, all sorts of different
capacities. And yeah, I was born into the Nazarene denomination. So that's kind of an offshoot of
the Methodist stream, I guess, if you want to say that Wesleyan non-Calvinist, I guess they
call it the holiness movement. You heretic. Yeah, that'll bring some bells for some people, I think.
And then I kind of stayed in that denomination, but there are variations within that denomination.
So started out going to fairly normal kind of middle of the road evangelical church when I was
growing up. Then eventually out of college and stuff, moved to Seattle and went to a more charismatic
kind of version of that, but they're still in the same denomination. And then another church that
kind of followed that vein, but not really. So I've kind of seen the whole swath of everything
and had Calvinist friends and had lots of arguments with them and like all sorts of stuff, you know.
That's why I said heretics. That was a Calvinist. Yeah. So me and you would have had our discussion.
Did you ever experience things while you were a Christian that you thought were miracles or like,
you were like, hold on, I can't explain this. Yeah, that was mostly after college, being in a
charismatic church where like they were praying for healing and laying on the hands of like, you
know, strangers on the street and go into the hospital and praying for people and all that kind
of stuff. We went to the hospital being a pastor and laid hands on a guy that I didn't know at the
time, but apparently he had been going to the church for a while and had a medical issue or
something. And he said he couldn't like raise his arm above a certain height. We prayed for him,
and then he could raise his arm above the height. So, you know, something simple,
but I'd never seen anything like that before. So I gotta ask you, I gotta ask you because this
really begs the question, could he raise his arm above that point? Now, I'm not saying the guy
didn't have a hard time doing it. I'm not even saying that he thought that he couldn't. But when
you look back at it now with where you're going, we're going to gear towards some of the changes
in your mind. Yeah. Would you attribute it to placebo? Would you think that there was real
kicking in of endorphins and chemicals and the environment and the like the showmanship
of the situation? Do you think that played a significant role in what you thought was a
miracle at that time? Yeah, I really do. And like, placebo is a real thing. And I think it is
more powerful than people get a credit for, especially if they haven't like done any research
and studies on that kind of stuff. He I later found out that he the guy that we prayed for
isn't really doesn't have all his mental faculties. So it would be hard for us to know if his report
before the prayer completely true or, you know, accurate, it would just be hard to know. So I
don't have like any definitive proof that like something happened or something didn't didn't
happen. But it's pretty dubious. Either way, psychologically speaking, none of us are professionals
on psychology. But I can imagine we have experience. And I'm when I'm asking you these questions,
I'm actually speaking from experience myself of things that I would probably say. But do you
think that the whole system of the church doing this, it's almost set up for people to come,
they want that person to come up and to say to get imagine wanting attention to get attention.
They might come in and go, I just had a miracle happen. Look, the Lord did this for me. And then
oh, everybody praised Bobby over here who got, you know, a healing or whatever. Good job, Bobby,
you know, making the church look good for this. Do you think all that plays into this?
I think it is probably most of it. And I don't want to say like people are
making things up or dishonest or anything. I think everybody is honestly engaging in the
community with the stimuli of what's going on and all that stuff. Right. But I think naturally,
as humans, we just pick up on those things that we have to say and have to do to like fit in and
be accepted and like all that kind of stuff. And I think that's a powerful, powerful force.
I think so. And I wonder if there's some psychology there of convincing in a community
setting of making and psyching yourself out to believe that something is the case that isn't.
Totally. Yeah. I think I've seen it. And I think a really good example is like worship and worship
music. I've been a part of worship bands most of my life. I've been playing drums and guitar and
all sorts of stuff. I've led worship. And part of the process, you know, you pick the set,
you pick the worship songs. Right. And you pick them so that you get a certain emotional response
throughout the set. And you like set up the pastor and what he's going to say and stuff,
or like you set up the altar call or the end of the service, you do a certain song or a certain
type of vibe so that people can get into the spirit and stuff, you know, and it's like,
this is a strong word, but it's basically manipulation. You're manipulating people's
feelings and like you're doing it with lights and sometimes fog and all sorts of stuff.
I do it when I'm editing videos. I want a sound effect. I want the music to touch you. I want
you to be susceptible to my message so that you can try and follow where I'm trying to take you.
And so part of it, you could look at it as a coercive act of manipulation in a negative way.
You could look at it as like we all do it to try and, you know, persuade and whatnot.
But your gift was music. How did that play out in your journey?
Yeah, so I'm at a church in Seattle and I was specifically kind of called to that church
to be on the worship team to help lead the music and they have a worship leader.
And so I'm working with them to, you know, do everything that you'd have to do behind the
scenes to make worship happen. Every week we would pick the set of songs and because that
community was kind of a charismatic kind of community and they're like looking to like hear
God's voice in the moment and stuff like that. The way we would do it is we would pray separately
on like Monday asking Holy Spirit or God to give us the song set. Then we would come together on
like Wednesday and compare the sets and then we would like choose from there. Right. So at the time
it wasn't like I wasn't thinking like I am now critically and like trying to figure out how I
know things and stuff like that. But I started noticing that like our sets were never the same.
And so later on when I was evaluating things and deconstructing I was like that's a great test
for hearing God's voice. So let me get this straight. Yeah. The Holy Spirit, you guys obviously are
Spiritfield type Christians that God's spirit would move you into what he wanted. He could
foresee the future of what the music needed to be for the upcoming service whatever day it may be
Wednesday Sunday whatever. Yes. You guys would go in your own paths. Don't you're not doing Matthew,
Mark, Luke and John did. You're not using each other's material. You're literally coming up
on your own with the song. And when you do it's almost always it's almost like anything else that's
random in the world that you're going on. Yes. You never really had the same. There were like a
couple of times when we had like one song in common but it was hardly ever the same songs.
And so like that's a really good test because it's falsifiable. You get results right away.
You can see okay if we are hearing the same God and if we are honestly approaching that
practice. Were you on it? Yes. From your heart. You guys were so sincere. Yes. Yeah. So you know
it could be that like maybe I'm not as good of hearing God as the worship leader like I don't
know. You know that's probably what I told myself at the time. There are differences in how people
hear God's voice and what they hear from God. And if that's the case like what do we do with all
these big questions where people are making very you know consequential decisions about like dogma
and doctrine and scripture interpretation and all that kind of stuff. Just kind of snowballs you know.
I'm fairly certain in our conversations that isn't the no that's not the moment. That wasn't the
moment. No. We're going to have to get to that moment. So music is huge. Your parents they're
encouraging all of this. They're proud of you. They're happy the community's patting you on the
back. I mean you're doing the right thing. Just make sure you don't question the wrong things or
say the wrong things. Right. I know exactly what that's like. Yeah. Take us further into your story
before we do get to that moment or thing that caused you to question. Yeah. So I'm I do want to
explain that coming from that like kind of Nazarene evangelical bubble of growing up in that one
church and then going to college. And then it was a big shift going to Seattle because it's a different
type of community that's really charismatic and spirit filled new experience for me. So I'm kind
of learning for about you know four years or so how to do that whole spirit filled thing. And in
the beginning I'm like evaluating is this real is this true. So I'm kind of naturally already
starting like the beginnings of critical thinking about religion and and God and deeply held beliefs
and do this radical changed environment. Yes. But I come to accept it and adopt everything. The
church there had a what they call the school of supernatural ministry. And so as you'd meet for
a couple hours every weekday you know in the middle of the week between the services and
they had like a workbook and stuff for like all sorts of methods of how to like pray for people
how to prophesy all these different things. And then we would like go on field trips and like go
out in the streets and look for somebody who you know we thought needed help or maybe we had prayed
beforehand. I got an impression of like a person in a red shirt. So we go out and we find somebody
in a red shirt and pray for them and stuff like that. So I look back on a lot of that and I kind
of cringe a little bit you know. I was waiting for you. Yes. Because it was like woo you know we
were really out there. I can imagine looking back going close your eye you know get an eight ball
shake it. Yeah. All right. She's going to wear a blouse. She's wearing a blouse. Let's go down
you know but there's good things you're doing to help. There's also this like I can't buy this
stuff but we're getting there. Yeah. What's next. So I'm in that church for a while. I've kind of
made a shift more to like I'm less worried about like dogma and doctrine and the exact like you
know the Greek and the Hebrew the Bible and all that kind of stuff and I'm more focused on like
what is God doing now. What can God do for the people around me and my community and all that
kind of stuff. And so I fully adopted that when you get away from like the tradition it becomes
more about like people in good ways and in bad ways and the good you know we describe some of
the good we're you know loving each other and being part of each other's lives and meeting new
people and strangers and stuff like that that you know might need a kind word and stuff you know
those great things but then the in the negative like cultural personality form really easily
and I think that's kind of what was going on there but I didn't know at the time.
Your worship leader your pastors your youth group people the people who were in charge. Yep.
The kind of the stream that I was flowing in like they have like a like a word for it like
they call it the five-fold ministry and I know exactly what you're so I know where you're at
now in your journey. Yeah. So I don't know if you heard like Bethel church and ready. Oh yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. It comes from all that kind of stuff and like Hillsong and things. So it just like
really naturally sets things up for power to be a huge part of what's going on and so I'm going
through the church I'm you know I'm having a great time doing stuff I'm meeting a lot of new
people and good experiences and then I find out from one of my roommates one of the leaders in
the church is doing like a weird manipulation game with him and another person that are both
kind of like wanting to be one of the leadership positions like volunteer for leadership position
this other leader is like pitting them against each other would like half truths and like all
this kind of stuff I get that story from my roommate so I verify it with the other person
like hey have they been telling you this oh they've been telling you that that's different that would
make a problem for this so I'm like seeing these power games like play out in front of me and it
just kind of like peels back the curtain on how everything works in the community and that was
then you know it felt like a betrayal for sure and it was just like really strange like okay
if god is choosing these leaders and the spirit is supporting these leaders why do we have to
play any of these games you know it's starting right with what's right in front of you yeah the
doubt setting in and the first doubt is not oh therefore god doesn't exist no no it is always
is this particular thing I'm part of really divine is this really of god right usually that's how it
always starts for me and the experiences I've read or heard and discussions I've had is that
someone something starts to make you go and question and then now you're going hold on this looks so
human yes and not divine so take us as we're peeling back the onion take us further into this
yeah I can hear um christians commenting on the video now you can already predict yeah off at you
and like this is stuff that I said to myself too you know like like you're saying this isn't
the community that I'm looking for that one's not of god but there's another one yeah there's
another one yeah that's that's what I'm thinking by that time I had been splitting time between
two churches um the church that I the spirit field church was meeting on sunday evenings
and I was going to another church on sunday mornings after all of that stuff kind of came out
with manipulation and things um it was a couple weeks and then I kind of stopped going to that
church and just focused on this other one during that time I'm processing a ton of stuff but one
of the ways that I would process would be to uh write write poetry write songs all sorts of stuff
so I'm I'm writing some poetry um I had done some it was around christmas time I'd done like a
treatment of um uh luke when he describes Jesus's birth and stuff I write that one and I'm like
ooh this would be really cool if it was like a trilogy and we had started with like Mary hearing
from the angel here's you know you're gonna be pregnant with god basically and then like from
joseph's perspective like here's I gotta get my wife my newly pregnant wife to this other place for
the census and then finish with the one the first one that I wrote which was you know the the birth
and all that kind of shepherds and the angels and all that kind of stuff so I'm starting to write
this Mary poem and I'm like realizing that I don't have a good picture like a visual picture
of who Mary was so I start doing some research famous last words um I start doing some research
of like you know who is Mary and like her surroundings and like Nazareth and Galilee
and like all that kind of stuff at that time what do we know and I quickly find out that we know
way less than I thought we should have in order to have all this confidence about who this person
was and who Jesus is and the bible and all that kind of stuff I just remember thinking all I'm
doing is just recycling that narrative I'm not standing on anything that I actually know and
that was kind of the moment that it was like I don't know what I'm saying I I don't know any of these
truths or faith foundations or dogmas or doctrines I know the narrative I know what people say about
things but I don't know what they're based on I don't know you know all that kind of stuff so I
just dove into learning about like history and history of religions and ancient Near East stuff
and just all that kind of stuff and then it just kind of went from there you discover there's not
much to be said or known about Mary I mean maybe there's traditions later but you weren't really
focused on that as a Protestant you're probably focused on like what does the bible say and so
now you realize there's not much that the bible says yeah trust issues are already there my question
is in light of your wanting to think with logic think with intelligence think with what facts are
based on what we can know and that experience inside the feeling of knowing Jesus the feeling of
I have to turn my back on all this experience you mean to tell me that that wasn't true I can't
it like cognitive dissonance I cannot think that that wasn't true yeah I imagine you had that happen
so what where did you go from the I need Jesus this is my whole life I am a caterpillar to
turning into a butterfly and realizing actually that isn't true and how do I explain all of this
that I had in church and the miracles and the things that's why I brought that up early on yeah yeah
yeah I guess I was kind of a progressive Christian or something for like a few months after that
thinking like okay maybe the bible is just myth maybe it's stories people just wrote down
and nobody really knows and that that's okay and we're all just kind of doing our best you know
to know God and and stuff and maybe there's something about how God relates to us where he
can't just like you know demonstrate things for us to answer all the questions and stuff so like
that maybe that's what faith is just trust that you have the right answers or you're interpreting
things the right way and and like that's that's kind of how it should be you know to just throw
your your faith on it even faith on God even if it's it's completely blind you know maybe that's
really what it is and so for a few months that's kind of how I how I was still going to that church
and stuff and not really almost like I had kind of completely let go of the bible and if I knew
anything about it what it was saying and that kind of stuff and then I didn't realize this though
but music was really the thing that was keeping me in the church and I go out to lunch with my
the worship leader at that church one day and he just asked me point blank I don't know exactly
where this came from but he's like do you believe that Jesus is your savior maybe I you know mentioned
something about like bible is myth or something at some point I don't know but I was like yeah I
think he is but maybe in a different way than you do and he says okay then you probably shouldn't be
on the the worship team anymore and so like from that point it was like okay so I'm just gonna like
go to church and not like be a part of the team and just like sing and okay so I tried that the
next week and it was the weirdest experience in my life man like I could see the worship from the
other side and I've been a part of worship teams for years and years and years and years and years
you know and I've been to like conferences where I would be just like one of the worshipers and
stuff like that and but it's different when you see your own church that you've been like pouring
yourself into for a while when you see it from the other side so after that that service I was
just like yeah I don't know if I'm ever coming back here so I didn't go to church and that was
probably four-ish months or so before the pandemic happened yeah so I have four months of like just
not going and there was probably some you know anger and hurt there and stuff you know and so I'm
like kind of trying to deal with that and things um but then the pandemic happens and then it's like
hey um you could go to church and like definitely catch the virus or you could not go to church
you know yeah um so I was like well that seems like a pretty simple choice to make so I'm just
not going to look for a new church or or any of that kind of stuff but the beauty of that
is that it gave me the time I needed to be able to really evaluate things honestly because like
we were talking before about how community dynamic and the um Christian like the pressure
of the Christian community is real and so I was outside of that pressure and I could honestly
ask myself questions that I never could if I had to go to church the next Sunday and face people
having asked that question you know what I mean yeah um so the pandemic was beautiful for that
because I could just study as much as I wanted to I could like for a long time I used the time on
Sunday that I would go to church to just research stuff watch YouTube videos read books like that's
when all the the people that you feature on your channel and then eventually your channel
really became important to me because it was this source of information that I would have had to get
from like a school or an online course or something like that you know that I was just getting for free
and it was amazing you know and like I like to talk with my friends and stuff about things that
I watch and stuff you know and like if I was part of that church still like there's no talking to
those people about that stuff oh no yeah that's not part of the community it's not part of the rules
yeah of their community and you're not really part of their community as soon as you think the way
that you think yeah do you remember any early things that really shocked you that just went
oh my gosh yeah why I never knew this you know watching uh Dr. Josh Bowen on a couple of year
interviews and then on his own channel too with his wife Megan um his research into um the you
know the documentary hypothesis and that kind of stuff and then especially slavery this is a
huge social issue it's a huge part of American history and all that kind of stuff like the
Bible was used to justify everything that was going on in the south with chattel slavery and
stuff and and I had heard some scuttle blood of that you know before from like apologists and
things and I heard the the apologetic answers and stuff and just seeing Josh like completely destroy
that was super mind-bending and and opening in a lot of ways and then just uh a lot of a lot of
stuff with Bart Ehrman how much we know about the authors of the different books especially in the
New Testament and that that one chart of uh manuscripts and uh what dates they come from
you know a bunch of apologists will say we have like 5000 manuscripts of the New Testament and
then you find out that the majority of those 5000 were like I don't know 700 800 years after Jesus
life and like maybe we have like five or six from like a hundred years or less so it's like
we don't know anything well we shouldn't have our overconfidence right yeah I love what you
what you said so you came across our channel myth vision I know you came across Pine Creek I
know you came across other skeptics and you found yourself in a different kind of environment
where are you at with community now I mean what I still have friends that um come from uh the
Christian world and that kind of stuff you know they're still Christians themselves a lot of them
and I still hang out with them and stuff and good relationship with my parents still we
don't really talk explicitly about this kind of stuff um you mean to tell me yeah my mom's the
same yeah yeah but um but we have a good relationship outside of all that you know we can we can talk
about sports and politics and movies and you know whatever it's fine um so so that's great
but I am like looking for more community surrounding like this kind of stuff that you do
interviewing scholars and skeptics and and even interviewing Christians that are on the forefront
of like archaeology and different things and have big claims and like let's question those claims
you know and yeah so John I love it I hope someone watching can can relate I'm sure they will yeah I
relate I tried to relate to everybody that I record even if it is hard to at times this one was not
hard to relate to at all and I I hope that uh people will you know consider some of the things you
said there and do with it as they will but um I really do appreciate it any final words you'd
like to tell people yeah I I'd like to stress if any um Christians watch this uh even you know people
I used I I used to know well you know I haven't kept up with everybody that kind of stuff if you
come across this uh know that like this comes from a really honest place um and I feel like I'm trying
to just portray who I am and where I am now and with no aim to like convert anybody the atheism
or anything right or like you know say anything like that everybody's journey is their own and uh
this is just this is just where I'm heading now I almost like to envision these conversations
is just conversations of freedom this is not a goal to coerce you to become like me to be like
me but if you relate to what we're saying at the very least I feel like it can at least help with
getting people to see oh we create these tribalistic boundaries rules and set of things
in our communities we should change that because what you're doing is you're setting up a guy like
John for exiting your community if if the I'll put it another way if the people in the community
weren't fake it till you make it trying to control and and run these little power games and
lies and schemes and there's probably a lot more that was going on in your community you don't even
know about if they weren't doing that and you didn't see that if it wasn't hold on your version of
what son of god okay we can't have you on our worship team if it wasn't so much honestly BS
in that way I would imagine you wouldn't have the doubts you wouldn't have gone down that skeptical
path maybe eventually something would have gave but I don't think you would have left Christianity
overall I mean you'd have been still connected in some way through COVID I imagine yeah yeah
like it wouldn't played wouldn't have played out on the timeline that it did maybe it would have been
later I don't know like I think that the truths and like the the stuff that I think that we can
know about history and about the Bible and stuff like that I think those things eventually would
have found their way to me yeah they stand on their own in order to kind of break down the house of
cards that is you know modern-day Christianity but those little pebbles that I was describing the
set list not matching and the manipulation in the church and then kind of being asked to
leave the community like those are things that just nudged me to find those truths that you know
really broke everything down if a Christian is is saying to themselves like uh well this guy just
got hurt by the church and so that's why he left I would agree with you in some uh some sense but at
the same time it didn't cause me to be like I hate this church I'm leaving I hate God oh this community
isn't the right community I'm going to find a different community and then in that process I
started finding all these things that just made it not worth it to find another community because
I didn't like I don't think these guys have the the truth right you mean there's different competitive
ideas that actually say this isn't the case yeah it's like visiting a new country yes and their
culture is a radical shock to what you're used to yeah who's right yeah totally and how do you
know who's right and when you start asking those questions even if you think you're right with
Christianity becoming but if you actually start asking those questions you just started your
journey yep exactly yeah I think you and me both would start leaning into looking at science and
trying to evaluate what we can test what we can observe and start from the observable testable
stuff and then work backwards because when you believed in wild things that you didn't need
any evidence to believe yeah claims that people threw at you from book in the ancient world
that we don't even really know who's behind this stuff you know anonymous authorship yeah
John I hope we have more of these discussions in the future if you enjoyed it let us know what your
favorite part of this deconversion story was with John tell us what your thoughts are about
some of the things discussed do you agree do you disagree where do you think we're going wrong or
where do you think we're going right I'd like to hear your thoughts but John thank you so much man
yeah thanks man thanks for the platform appreciate you
