If you want to help MythVision podcast grow, you can join our Patreon, there are different
tiers, as well as help out with PayPal.
Thank you so much, don't forget to like, subscribe, share, and comment.
David Baccotti asks, hope I didn't butcher your name.
Dr. Price.
I think David is probably right.
Oh, go ahead, I'm sorry.
Dr. Price, or Derrick.
Your show is developing an interesting and serious document on the origins of Christianity,
just saying.
I have a question for any of your guests, especially Dr. Price.
When Gospel writers wrote episodes or quotes in the New Testament that alluded to episodes
or quotations from the Old Testament, was it likely that the average Jew, which begs
the question as to whether there ever is, was such a thing, would have recognized the
illusion to the original in the Tanakh that was being referred to in the Gospels?
Hard to say.
Most Jews attend, I think, attended synagogue, where the center of it was reading the Scriptures
just like it still is, and it was kind of a liturgical cycle.
And so I'm guessing they would have been familiar with the stories.
And that doesn't militate against him taking them as literal history, because as David
Friedrich Strauss pointed out long ago, it was believed that when the Messiah came,
he would do everything the others had done but better.
And Strauss said, well, this kind of is a clue as to why they would write stories about
him doing similar things, but even better.
And not that they thought they were writing fiction, but that they kind of figured, well,
this must have happened.
And so they said, and that kind of explains why the stories are sort of simple.
They're saying only what you have to, and they figured, well, if the Elijah did it,
Jesus must have.
And so, yeah, I think they would have, and they would have said, well, there you go.
This was the fulfillment of prophecy and typology, and so it would make sense to me.
And so did those who rewrote the Old Testament stories into Jesus' stories think they were
recording history?
They may well have, it's hard to say.
That begs the question also, who's the audience, these Gospels or New Testament writings are
for?
This can go into the Gentile question of how would they know, but obviously they would
have to be around probably a Jew of some sort who's familiar in teaching them, look, these
are the stories, and these might be where they come from.
So the question then becomes like, who's this being read to, who are your audience?
Is it the average Joe Schmoe, can they actually even read some of these people, or is this
targeted to other people who are educated enough to read and know what they're doing,
and they have like an audience that they are preaching this to?
It's an interesting question I would like to ask on that, if you don't mind following
through with his question, if the Jews who are reading this obviously are acquainted
with the Tanakh enough to know, oh yeah, that's Moses passing through Elijah, here's a quote,
we know that's from our holy scriptures.
Are they reading this stuff in synagogues, do you think these Gospels floated around
in synagogues at all, or do you think that they would even allow that to enter somewhere
like that, or were there different places like a synagogue, but for Christians?
Well that's not at all unlikely given that there were a bunch of Jewish Christians, and
if they were booted out of the regular synagogues, and I believe there's some debate about that,
but I still think that's the case, that around 80 or 90, a curse was added to the prayer
called the 18 benedictions, which basically tries to smoke out any heretics, because they're
not going to pray to condemn themselves, and that was probably what is being referred
to in the Gospel of John, where it says the days are coming, when those who kill you will
think they're doing a service to God, and chapter nine, it's anachronistic, but it says
that the Jews had already sent out a ruling that anybody that believed in Jesus was persona
non grata, the synagogue, you couldn't come anymore. Well, just like people do today when
they split, they maintain probably the church order they knew, they just have different
scriptures to read, in addition to the old ones are instead. We know there was a synagogue
of the Marcionites, so-called, because a plaque that would have been on the outside
of the building, I guess, says synagogues of the Marcionites, so there were their churches
or synagogues, because it didn't have an exclusive Jewish connotation, it just meant
a place where people are assembled together, very much like Ecclesia, and let's see, and
in fact, Michael Goulder wrote a book called Midrash and Lection in Matthew, and he wrote
and this is sort of a radical theory that a lot of people have shied away from, I'm
not convinced of it, but it is interesting, Bishop Spong became a big adherent of this,
and his notion was that you can trace parallels between some ancient Jewish lectionary, that
is, what passages would be read in synagogue in what order for different holidays and stuff.
He says you can coordinate the material in Matthew and eventually, I think he said in
Mark and Luke, to that, implying that, yeah, these things were written as lectionary readings,
liturgical readings for a Jewish Christian synagogue, and let's see, as to Gentiles,
well, apparently, a lot of the so-called God-fearers or pious Gentiles, etc., they
attended synagogue because they wanted to hear the scriptures read. That's why it's
difficult to be sure who is the target audience for the epistle of the Hebrews. It presupposes
familiarity with scripture, but there's no reason to think that educated Gentiles that
attended synagogue were not in view. We just don't know. It would make sense either way.
But one thing I don't want to neglect in the question is that given the care with which
the redactors, like later evangelists editing earlier ones, that really demands, as Philip
R. Davies said, that these things were written by scribes in the first instance for scribes,
because it would have been unrealistic, really, to imagine. It's equally ridiculous to say
what Richard Bacham and others do, that, oh, no, this is just recording eyewitnesses,
like an oral history of the Vietnam War, like as though we have today, because you have
to ignore all these intricate patterns of redaction, like Luke downplaying the nearness
of the Parusia and so forth and various other things. You just have to say, well, that's
just all coincidence. You don't want to see the complexity of it, but on the other hand,
it would be equally absurd to say that the average church or synagogue listener to these
things would have picked it up. You might have had the whoever was reading it and then
sermonizing on it. They might have drawn attention to it, possibly, but it seems unlikely that
they would compare it to earlier gospels in preaching. That's not the kind of thing, the
laity, like they're impatient with it and understandably so, because that's not why
anybody comes to church. That's a different thing. You might go to a Bible study. We know
Gnostics had discussion groups within more Catholic parishes, then tried to keep it on
the quiet, kind of like Catholic charismatic prayer groups in the late 60s, early 70s,
they had a tenuous relation to the mother congregations who thought, well, what are they
talking about in those enclaves? Oh, nothing, nothing. Irenaeus was trying to root them
out, but they were clever enough not to give themselves away. You might have had that going
on, so somebody might have gotten it outside the scribal communities, but same with the
Old Testament. Who would have written this stuff, again, with the redaction and all of
that, that it wouldn't have been just like the prophets? Jeremiah, Isaiah, are these
records even imperfect ones of what these people actually said? Well, if you take a
close look, as some few have done recently, it kind of looks like these are all literary
products. There wasn't necessarily an Isaiah or Jeremiah, though there could have been
somebody like no prophecies in that sense are attributed to Elijah or Elisha or Gad
or some of these other guys. Maybe there were stories, even factual ones, about some of
these old seers and all that. Maybe Jeremiah was one of those, though it's interesting
that some of the big so-called writing prophets are never even mentioned in the Deuteronomic
history. There are patterns that appear there about what prophets' careers are like and
so on. The laments of Jeremiah within the book, I mean, there's also the book of Lamentations,
but they and a lot of the stuff in Job appeared to be lament Psalms that would have been used
in the temple that have just been taken up into this, so you get fictitious character,
characters like the weeping prophet Jeremiah. Well, who knows if that was true, it's just
that they were attributing to them these things, or like in Jonah. That's clearly one of the
old lament Psalms, but they figured, well, if I was getting digested by a whale, I might
call out the gods. I mean, in all these cases, did the common people know all the details
of the Torah and the differences between the Exodus and Deuteronomy versions? Well, certainly
not. There must have been leaders who did, and they would emphasize some things and
not others. Were those law codes ever enforced? Is there any way they could have been? Or are
they like Plato's laws or Plato's republic or Thomas More's utopia, kind of a manifesto
for the way Jews ought to live, but whether or not most people did, they probably didn't.
Like at the time of the Pharisees, the most popular sect, other Jews respected them and
thought they were probably right, but they couldn't exercise the care to live that way,
and that might imply the Pharisees were sort of like the Hasidim today, who go much farther
than average pious Jews do. I haven't got time to keep kosher to that degree in all
of that. So I think that's all of that as part of this pattern that probably only the
scholarly elite really understood or really produced this stuff.
