Dr. Robin Faith Walsh was doing a live stream with Gnostic Informant. Be sure to subscribe to Neil.
And I had to ask a little super chat, maybe two. But let me know what you think of the show. And
Robin's got some courses, lectures coming up on MythVision. You're not going to want to miss.
mvpcourses.com, down in the description. And Derek from MythVision Podcast is in the house with
the question, this may be clipped for his channel. So, uh, no, I'm just kidding. But it might be.
Dr. Walsh, do you think there was a communities behind the Gospels, including non-canon,
even if the German romanticism method is not correct?
So I think that there is somebody in some kind of group, right, behind these texts, meaning
it doesn't make a lot of sense for any of these authors, canonical or non-canonical, to be motivated
to write a story about Jesus, about Christ, about his teachings. If they're not aware of what we
would call Christianity or some kind of community. Now, I don't want to get too in the weeds. There
are a couple things to unpack about this. When it comes to community, the problem with the word
community is we in English put all kinds of weight on that word. When we say community, we think of
a group that's like self-evidently bounded, that like recognizes it's in a community, that it's
already well established institutionally. We have all kinds of understandings of how that word
functions, that I think don't necessarily map on sociologically to what the formation of early
Christianity in its earliest stages probably look like. You probably have people coming in and out
of the movement, to some extent. The word ecclesia where we get church actually meant assembly.
In antiquity, and John Clappenborg has written a great book called Christ Assemblies About This,
where people might have multiple affiliations. They might go to what we would call a church,
but they probably, if you wanted a hamburger, you had a sacrifice meat.
Paul talks about this problem, sacrificing the idols. Some people couldn't give up in
and out. They still were going to the sacrifice of animals to get their keto diet. Then they
would go back to the assembly. We might look at that and say, well, this person is in a church,
but they're also worshiping ISIS. I'm being kind of fast and loose here, but you understand what
makes sense here. Yeah. The idea of the cohesive community, and this is the only thing that these
people care about, that these are, this is the only group that the gospel say author or any author
is writing for, and that it has a singular center purpose focus. That's the thing that I want to
trouble a little bit. I often talk in terms of spheres, whoever's writing these gospels, or
canonical or non-canonical, is probably part of multiple different kinds of what we might
consider communities or groups or assemblies, a Christ assembly. Maybe they're still going to
another kind of, if they're a Gentile, another kind of worship group. Maybe they have, in their
domestic space, still have an icon to the lorries. The ancient alarm system used to be
like Jupiter of the hearth. Maybe they're still making sure that they have an altar in their
home to whatever patron deity that they want to have associated with domestic space. Then
certainly whoever's writing these texts, even patronizing a person to write these texts,
is probably associated with other writers. They're reading things, consuming other kinds of
literature that informs what they put into their own gospels. Most writers want to see their work
spread broadly, not written by and for communities of a very singular nature. I think that, yeah,
there probably were Christians, or what we might call Christ groups, behind the gospels to some
extent. But that German romantic, that romantic idea of, you know, like they're all just like these
Christians huddled, hiding, you know, from persecution, choosing their one literate spokesperson
to write the gospel down for them because they're, you know, holding on to an oral tradition that
goes back multiple generations. That to me is the romantic reconstruction of these communities that
I don't think bears up to, you know, sociological scrutiny. That makes, that's a great, great
question. And then that made a lot of sense. Thank you for that, Derek. And go and subscribe to
MythVisionPodcast. And by the way, there's a course coming up. My mind's gonna throw that out there.
You guys just filmed a course about this subject. So if you have to look up for that, that's,
I'm definitely gonna be getting, getting mine. So keep on the lookout for that. Thank you.
MythVisionPodcast is back with another one. I can't wait for your lectures. Do you think
the first Corinthians creed is a legendary in nature? We can point to the gospels as legend,
but Paul and that creed? We talked about this one. I saw Derek last and I think I wasn't sure then,
I'm not sure I'm sure. Now I have a tendency to see these things as a little bit more nebulous.
Like the idea of an actual creed being what Paul had in mind. And I'm not quite sure.
Tell Derek to write another note. Like can we point to the gospels as legend? If we're trying to get
down to like, I mean, we know Paul's writing to some group of some kind, right? Like the idea
that they might have some kind of creed, okay, you know, like that, that's totally fine. It doesn't
actually challenge much except to say that Paul's invoking, you know, some kind of language to try
to give a sense of community possibly to this group that especially with the Corinthians is
otherwise not. But I would have to think a little bit. I have to keep thinking about this and he
can ask me the next time. I'll do some more homework on trying to decide what that is.
It is a very interesting question. And I don't know if anyone can say for sure. But yeah,
that's something I'd be interested to hear how you as an expert look at that. So thanks for that
question, Derek.
