Dr. Robin Faith Walsh was doing a live stream with Gnostic Informant. Be sure to subscribe to Neal.
And I had to ask a little super chat, maybe two, but let me know what you think of the show.
And Robin's got some courses, lectures coming up on MythVision. You're not going to want to
miss MVPCourses.com down in the description. And Derek from MythVision Podcast is in the house
with the question, this may be clipped for his channel. So, uh, no, I'm just kidding. But it
Dr. Walsh, do you think there was a communities behind the gospels, including non-canon,
even if the German romanticism method is not correct?
So I think that there is somebody in some kind of group, right, behind these texts,
meaning it doesn't make a lot of sense for any of these authors, canonical or non-canonical,
to be motivated to write a story about Jesus, about Christ, about his teachings. If they're not
aware of what we would call Christianity or some kind of community. Now,
I don't want to get too in the weeds. There are a couple of things to unpack about this. When it
comes to community, the problem with the word community is we in English put all kinds of weight
on that word. When we say community, we think of a group that's like self-evidently bounded,
that like recognizes it's in a community, that it's already well established institutionally.
We have all kinds of understandings of how that word functions, that I think don't necessarily
map on sociologically to what the formation of early Christianity and its earliest stages
probably look like. You probably have people coming in and out of the movement, to some extent.
The word ecclesia, where we get church, actually meant assembly. In antiquity,
and John Kloppenborg has written a great book called Christ Assemblies about this,
where people might have multiple affiliations. They might go to what we would call a church,
but they probably, if you wanted a hamburger, you had a sacrifice meat.
Paul talks about this problem, sacrificing the idols. Some people couldn't give up in
and out. They still were going to the sacrifice of animals to get their keto diet. Then they
would go back to the assembly. We might look at that and say, well, this person is in a church,
but they're also worshiping ISIS. I'm being kind of fast and loose here, but you understand what
makes sense. Yeah. The idea of the cohesive community, and this is the only thing that
these people care about, that these are, this is the only group that the gospel, say, author,
or any author, is writing for, and that it has a singular center purpose focus. That's the thing
that I want to trouble a little bit. I often talk in terms of spheres, whoever's writing these
gospels, or canonical or non-canonical, is probably part of multiple different kinds of
what we might consider communities or groups or assemblies, a Christ assembly. Maybe they're
still going to another kind of, if they're a Gentile, another kind of worship group. Maybe they
have, in their domestic space, still have an icon to the lorries. The ancient alarm system used to
be Jupiter of the hearth. Maybe they're still making sure that they have an altar in their home
to whatever patron deity that they want to have associated with domestic space. Then certainly,
whoever's writing these texts, even patronizing a person to write these texts, is probably associated
with other writers. They're reading things, consuming other kinds of literature that informs
what they put into their own gospels. Most writers want to see their work spread broadly,
not written by and for communities of a very singular nature. I think that, yeah,
there probably were Christians, or what we might call Christ groups, behind the gospels to some
extent. But that German romantic, that romantic idea of, they're all just like these Christians
huddled, hiding from persecution, choosing their one literate spokesperson to write the gospel
down for them because they're holding on to an oral tradition that goes back multiple generations.
That, to me, is the romantic reconstruction of these communities that I don't think bears up to
sociological scrutiny. That's a great question, and that made a lot of sense. Thank you for that,
Derek. Go and subscribe to The Vision Podcast. By the way, there's a course coming up.
My mind's about to throw that out there. You guys just filmed a course about this
subject, so be on the lookout for that. I'm definitely going to be getting mine, so
keep on the lookout for that. Thank you. Myth, Vision Podcast is back with another one.
I can't wait for your lectures. Do you think the first Corinthians creed is a legendary in nature?
We can point to the gospels as legend, but Paul and that creed?
We talked about this one. I saw Derek last, and I think I wasn't sure then. I'm not sure, I'm sure.
Now, I have a tendency to see these things as a little bit more nebulous than the idea of an
actual creed being what Paul had in mind. I'm not quite sure. Tell Derek to write another note.
Can we point to the gospels as legend? If we're trying to get down to, I mean,
we know Paul's writing to some group of some kind, right? The idea that they might have some kind of
creed, okay, that's totally fine. It doesn't actually challenge much, except to say that Paul's
invoking some kind of language to try to give a sense of community possibly to this group,
especially with the Corinthians, otherwise not. I would have to think a little bit. I have to
keep thinking about this, and he can ask me the next time. I'll do some more homework on
trying to decide what that is. It is a very interesting question, and I don't know if anyone
can say for sure, but yeah, that's something. I'd be interested to hear how you, as an expert,
look at that. Thanks for that question, Derek.
