Ladies and gentlemen, there is a conference hosted by Bart Ehrman with 10 world-class scholars
Insights into the New Testament. They're new insights, and this is the name of the conference
I hope you'll sign up today down in the description mythvisionpodcast.com forward slash
NT conference you guys go sign up right now
I hope to see you there great scholars and today I have a special guest that's never been on mythvision, but I
Swear you're not supposed to swear, but I promise I promise that the work
He is doing on the Joe Hennine Gospels is exactly what you and I crave
So without further ado, let me introduce you to our guest Dr. Hugo Mendez professor Hugo Mendez. Welcome to mythvision
Hi, thanks for having me
Thank you for giving us a little bit of your time to tease us on the lecture that you're going to be doing in this conference
Can you tell us a little bit about yourself before we get into that? Who are you and your background for our audience in case they wonder?
Yeah, so I'm an assistant professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. I'm a colleague of Bart Ehrman's here in the department
and
This is my eighth year at UNC. I previously was at Yale University for two years and
Graduated from the University of Georgia
I teach New Testament and early Christianity here at UNC. So I look at Christianity in the first five centuries
My first book was the cult of Stephen in Jerusalem inventing a patron martyr
It's all about how the church of Jerusalem to accomplish political aims
Invented all sorts of traditions about Stephen fabricated his relics and tried to position itself as really the center of
Stephen cult interest devotion in the ancient Mediterranean world
I'm currently now coming out this December the co-author with Bart Ehrman of the eighth edition of the New Testament with Oxford University Press
Which is a standard textbook in our field here in the United States
And otherwise working now on my next project my next project looks at
The origin of the gospel of john and what I'm arguing is that the gospel of john
Is an example of disguised authorship false authorship from the ancient world
The author of john invented this figure of the disciple whom jesus loved
precisely to give his work
A certain level of authority and authenticity it wouldn't have had
I'm working on also another project that's taking that
More forward particularly with reference to the epistles which I see as continuations of that tradition later authors
Who looking at this character that had been invented in the gospel decided to co-opt to hijack his voice and to
Deploy him for new polemical agenda. So yeah invention forgery. These are kind of the the center of what I'm interested in
in New Testament early christianity
That is exactly why I told everybody at the beginning of this video
Why we have to have dr. Mendes back to talk about this work and your publications sometime fingers crossed
Will be out later this year possibly early next year. I cannot wait to read that myself
So this is a tease for the future interview that we will have on your work, but also the conference
I imagine you're going to go down into some weeds in this conference in giving us
Evidences or reasons why you take this position
Yeah, so for this conference, I'm giving a paper called unlocking the symbolism of the fourth gospel so
One of the most essential things that I think people are always interested in is, you know
How much do we really know about the historical jesus?
What can we say about jesus from a historical perspective and of course the problem is we have these sources
That come to us the earliest sources for the life of jesus or the gospels and you know
They're shot through with religious agendas and and that's always a question
So I focus particularly on the gospel of john and you know the challenge with the gospel of john in particular
Is that it contains?
Narratives you know events of the life of jesus that appear in no other gospel
There's been a lot of energy in the study of the gospel of john for the last 30 years
Around the question of is there something that we can recover?
That's historical, you know, can we excavate this text and at least pull out
Nuggets of jesus really did this and jesus really did that
What my presentation is doing is it's it's looking at the gospel a little bit of a different way
The gospel is fundamentally literature, right?
It's it's a text that tells a story and it has a storyteller behind it
And one of the things that literary critics of the gospel have understood very clearly since the 1980s
Is that the gospel of john is deeply saturated with symbolism?
In many ways, I personally as a scholar think that we haven't gone far enough sometimes in understanding
How much of the gospel is symbolic?
How creative the gospel writer was?
So what I do in this presentation is I invite the listeners
Everyone joining us for this conference
To learn the practice that I teach in my own classroom of reading john backwards
We have to start I think with john
With the ideas of john the theology the the kind of worldview outlook because this is fundamentally what the author
Wanted to push on his readers. He wanted them to believe this very particular vision of
Precisely it's it's a view of jesus, but it's a view of human exaltation of how human beings
Can be born of spirit access celestial realms
How they can acquire eternal life now and how they can acquire existences like those of celestial beings
It's when we understand what the gospel writer is trying to press to his audience
That we can begin to understand the literary structure of the text
So why does the author write this narrative? What is the purpose of this story?
What why does he use these motifs or keep bringing up these key words?
In many ways understanding the theology of john
Unlocks the symbolism that saturates the book. It kind of makes the whole gospel light up. I think
So i'll be trying to kind of explain that practice in the presentation
I think that ultimately
That does circle us back to the question of historicity
You know, it's when we understand. I think how inventive how creative
How willing potentially to manipulate alter
Enrich earlier materials the author is that we can begin to I think better understand
The questions that historians might ask of this text. We begin to see how
Literary it really is and perhaps maybe a little less of the kind of
Historical source that we have tended to think
In the future, I would love to do a deep dive into the weeds with you
Once this conference is over and we can go into john and the symbolism
What the repercussions
Are of the method people are using on trying to
Find sweep away a fossil behind all of this heavy cloud of theology symbolism
Storytelling inventive creative ideas like this and is this a hopeless endeavor as
thomas l thompson in his book in the 70s was diving into abraham
And the patriarchal narratives. I love what he said in the book. He was pretty pretty cutthroat
But he was pretty blunt and he says look we have
concrete archaeological stuff
And then we have these narratives and a lot of what the scholars for a very long time
I mean since the church fathers were trying to pin these guys into history
You see this the historians trying to say uh, here's where he was in history things like that
You you have this method. They'll say like the name
Let's see where this name is anchored in history and if it was used or provoked anywhere in history
And therefore if there's a name that means he might have existed as if you and me couldn't
Find in ancient literature names of archaic people who are from regions
We want our people to be from and you couldn't be inventive or creative
And that's what thompson I think did that really turned over the consensus in many ways of like
This futile attempt of historicizing what happened. So you and me could
I think go down an interesting rabbit trail of the things you've learned and teach
And help people realize maybe that could be applied at least to the gospel of john since that's your specialty
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I just recently read that book. That's why I was like, okay
This was it was a heavy read
But I was thinking about it because you brought up some things that sounded somewhat like what he said
But I'm looking forward to this. I hope that people will go go down in the description sign up for the conference
And also get one of dr. Mendes's books
I hope that people will check out your work because what you've teased me with already is a path i've been on
And it just sounds to me
I don't know
Maybe your opinion before we let you go on this is do you think that the method
is
Dated this approach of trying to find the fossils of the historical this or the historical that
Not saying it couldn't be a possible guess, but
Do you think it's futile on any certainty or trying to be very confident about anything that actually is in the gospel of john being historical?
I mean, I I still like the exercise, right? I I still think
You know, you're always going to be fascinated by that question
I mean history as a discipline is still going to want to excavate the past and draw out something
I think that what we don't tend to realize though is what soil we're digging in
Right and and how we're supposed to work with that soil
And and you know, it's I kind of find that people tend to be on very different extremes of this, right?
There there can be the very dismissive attitude. Well, of course, we know this is religiously biased and all these sorts of things
And that's that's great
You know or of course, you know, we want to find real history and we need to find real history and we just need to right develop the right
Methodology the right algorithm almost that we can pull all the words of the text through and find it
um, I think that
Although I think historical research has a place though
You know the the fun of history is not necessarily what we end up
Oh, um finding about the historical jesus
But even what we find out about the historical author of john about john itself as a text
Yeah, I think the one thing that always stands out to me as a scholar
Is that in my opinion the scholars who are so focused on trying to find
historical nuggets and john who are really confident that there are
Historical elements to be found in john
I think are some of the worst readers of the gospel. I I don't think that they're the people who necessarily grasp
How the theology comes together in this text and what really that theology says
I don't think they're very good readers of the narratives of the text. They don't see symbolism
They they stay so much on the plane of these sorts of historical questions
That they're they're not seeing what the author is doing all around so
You know biblical studies is a very diverse field. We have lots of different channels of inquiry, right?
There are folks who do historical criticism
There are folks who do literary criticism who are interested in these sorts of questions matifs themes
narrative construction
And I think that we need
Conversations between all of us. We really need folks at the same table
Thinking with each other and not siloing so much because I think we answer all of our respective questions
A lot better, right literary critics. I think answer their questions about the gospel better when they understand more of its context
Historical critics. I don't think can do what they do
With a literary text until they recognize it's a literary text
I love I love what you said you said the what what soil are they working with?
And imagine you're building in the ancient world a clay hut, but you're working with black dirt
your
You have the wrong building materials to attempt to
Accomplish what you think you're going to bad analogy falls apart at many points, but
I think what you're suggesting is if you aren't aware of what you're looking at and dealing with to begin with
It's it's like I guess if we went to read Homer another analogy that's more realistic
But still falls apart if we go to read Homer's Iliad or the Odyssey and we're hunting it as if it's historical record
You're gonna find verisimilitude or they like in the classic is where they call it realisms
And it's like we're gonna find this we're gonna find a place
We're gonna find geographical locations or sea regions or this and that shipwreck this that same stuff
You might see an axe same stuff. You might see in some ways in the gospels
But what are you reading?
I mean if you don't realize
Odysseus king of Ithaca and the symbolism of the gods and you know, you're missing
The boat you're trying to historicize something
That was never
the
Intent
There was really of a they have a message. They're convincing you of the gospel. They want you to believe it's not
Hi, I'm in the future history classes that are coming down the road. I want to
It's it's much more than that. So that was my takeaway. Correct me if I'm wrong on that
No, I mean, I think you're right
And you know where we do this we do this with the apocryphal gospels the non canonical gospels, right?
We look at the gospel of thomas and when we teach it in the classroom when we we talk about it
We're very interested in the
You know, quote Gnostic theology of this text. We're interested in understanding its very particular vision of human nature and human origins and human destiny
And we think that that radically reshapes the material inside the text
But it's funny, you know, when we get to the gospels in the new testament
The canonical bias kicks in that I think keeps us
So eagle-eyed sometimes
On historical questions in terms that we don't tend to ask
Always about other texts the gospel of Mary might be a better example
You know, just these gospels that so clearly are putting
Words on jesus's lips are inventing scenarios narrative frames for these sayings
I I think if there's one thing that really animates my scholarship
It's how would we read the gospel of john?
If we read it the way we would read the gospel of thomas the gospel of Mary
What if we discovered it tomorrow in nagamati rather than have been sitting on it for 2000 years?
What would we do with it? And how would we feel about it?
I love what you just said. I have to make one comment because this
Sure
I can already see that we're gonna have some great interviews down the road. I'm so mesmerized by this
Um, richard c miller, you know robin faith wash. I've talked to several of these kind of mixture between classes slash
new testament scholars
And it kind of sounds like what I see
This historicizing attempt is almost an apologetic even though. I think it's framed into
Serious historical rigor to try and find it
You're digging in the wrong soil as you said to use your words. So like we're not dealing with history text
That doesn't mean there isn't realism's historical verisimilitude
But i'm looking at this
And i'm saying why do we have this vast? I don't care about numbers. I've given wrong numbers
I heard someone said there was like 94 gospels. That's probably not true. That's exaggerated
But there's so many gospels. Let's say dozens
Um and
Right
And who knows at the end of the day for what i'm not counting that were there there might have been more than 94 for all
I know I could be wrong. It's just to me
We're why do we look at these?
Is you're you're making me think of the question. Why do we say these four?
Need to be historical and then we just don't look at the acts of peter. We don't look at the the other
We include acts too in that historical journey
What is it? Is it because of this being canon that has framed this kind of
Golden shell of these are really the ones that are true and historical and we don't treat the same kind of genre
That may be clearly
Exaggerated in several ways more so than these four
But there's still exaggerations I find in these four that make me go. This sounds like literature. It sounds like
interesting fanciful theology and other things
What is your answer to that question about why do we treat these on a pedestal of history and the rest?
Fit some other category
Yeah, and you know, I should add the caveat here, right that there have been scholars who have tried to do that operation with the gospel of thomas
It's it's a it's a minority
Sort of view that would really try to give the gospel of thomas a really good historical anchor
At least from the perspective of our scholarship today in the 2020s, right?
um
But you know for these texts that are written, you know, clearly in the second century again, gospel of mary is a great example of this, you know, Jesus is
Talking about planetary spheres. Essentially the soul is ascending through the powers that the soul encounters
I mean people aren't working with that asking historical questions
And so so what is the difference? I you know, I think
some of the difference is
really
A familiarity over familiarity with the gospels and to some extent we can talk about canonical bias
We can talk about religious bias
But I think that we're so used to reading the gospel of john
And and what of course has happened over the course of history
Is that christian theology has taken language from john and fit it
Into molds that we think of as catholic or lutheran or something like that through history
You know, it has taken images from john and it has adapted it to trinitarian theology in the fourth century
And so by the time it filters to us today as a book, you know, all we can see are the 2000 years between us and the tax
What we miss is just how weird this text is
When you start to read it on its own landscape when you start to read it
Side by side with other texts of the period that actually are obviously far more like it
Then for instance, the nicene creed is like the gospel of john or the suma theologica or the catechism of the catholic churches
So, you know, I think that part of what I enjoy doing in the classroom
What I enjoy hopefully doing in this lecture in a couple weeks
Uh, I really enjoy defamiliarizing the gospel. I like taking the gospel
Kind of wiping the slate a little bit for my students for for public's that I address of you know, what do we think about this text?
How do we understand this text start from scratch?
And then let the text light up with new connections. Let's see it in a new frame
I hope that everybody watching this will go sign up mythvisionpodcast.com forward slash
NT conference
You won't want to miss this. Dr. Hugo Mendez. I love what you've said. I can't wait to learn from you more
I know for a fact that we have so much that we could do in the future to our audience for learning and
I can't wait for your new book to come out so we could promote that. Let me know when that happens so we can do this
Tell us what you think already in the comment section down below hit the like button subscribe
Check out the conference. I'm gonna be there and I hope that you will too. Thank you for your time. Dr. Mendez
Thank you for having me
