Does the God of the Bible have a physical body? We've been told, and I was taught, no. God is
outside space and time. God is not a man, right? We want to emphasize that even though there is
some way within the Trinitarian thought where the sun can, hypostatic union can have a body and be
fully 100% God and fully 100% man. Wrap your head around that. Don't know how. At the end of the
day though, that the God of Jesus, the Father, the Hebrew Bible, Yahweh, Adonai, El, Elian,
El Shaddai, this deity is incorporeal. This deity is spirit. This deity has no flesh or no physical
whatsoever. And so we're going to discuss this today with a scholar who was taught by Francesca
Stavrakapoulou. So let's just get right into this because you're going to want to take some
notes. I'm fairly confident I'm going to learn some things today, even though I've read her book,
God and Anatomy. There's always something, and Dan always shocks me. So Dr. Dan McClellan,
welcome back to MythVision. Thanks for having me, Derek. I appreciate your time.
Thank you. Let's get the plugs out of the way because I know for a fact that if you have
never heard this topic or you have never dove deep into this, if your view or watching, stay
tuned. I swear you're going to learn something new. It's really a shocking topic because I
really had no clue that this was the case. So real quick, in the description, pinned at the top,
we're going to be checking to see how many subscribers you get by the end of the stream
and stick around. Let's get to at least 14.5, 14.5k subscribers. He's got a YouTube channel.
We are checking that at the end. Everyone who subscribed has entered the new Jerusalem. Also,
go to Twitter. You can see his link tree here. I follow him on Twitter. He's on Instagram and
Facebook. And also, we have in the description his book, which is a scholarly book on the
divine images of really the gods and the ancient Near East, but Yahweh specifically.
And that is an amazing book. I hope anyone will go and get it's free if you want it in the e-book
copy, like what I'm looking at right here. So you can download this for free. If you want a paper
back, you can go on Amazon, type in Yahweh's divine images, a cognitive approach, or just
type his name out, and you can get this version of it in your hands. So you don't have to have it
in e-version. There's our plugs. I mean, obviously, I could do my shameless plugs for myth vision,
but Dan, does God have a body? Well, according to the biblical authors, yes. God has at least
one body, and God's bodies are described in a variety of different ways. In fact, a very popular
book that was published, let's see, 2009 by Benjamin Somer was called The Bodies of God
and the World of Ancient Israel. Talk not just about God's own corporate reality, but how God's
presence and God's self was manifested within divine images. And my book primarily deals with
the divine images side of things, but I also talk quite a bit about God's own corporeal anthropomorphic
body. I know that the thumbnail is quite clickable with the bodybuilding, muscular warrior. I tried
to match what Francesca kind of described about Yahweh as a warrior deity, young, dark beard,
well taken care of, probably smelled good, the whole nine, right? She goes into details in a whole
another way. It almost makes you think that's the kind of guy she likes. Well, this right here
is a paper you sent me where an actual scholar saying the gigantic, you know, body of God,
the muscular deity. So do you want to come on that? Yeah, this is a really popular paper back
when it came out. It's a fun paper. This is a scholar who talks about uses the idea of body
building as kind of an interpretive lens to look at God's body. And you can see it starting out
there. Bodybuilding is big and getting bigger, but it goes on later. The next section is called
pure muscle. It talks about hardcore bodybuilding as a purity system and talks about how purity
and things like that relate to the idea of God's body. So anybody who wants to, there was a comment
earlier in the stream where somebody said something about God not being a bodybuilder, but that's
actually an interpretive lens that scholars have used to look at the God of the Bible, because at
least Adonai, and I'm using that as a way to distinguish that divine profile from that of
El, who is the patriarchal high deity. This is the aged white beard sitting on a throne.
That's a separate divine profile. And that is distinct from the Adonai profile, which is the
storm deity profile. And the storm deity is young, virile warrior. Their warrior features are
represented using imagery associated with violent weather, thunder, lightning, floods, storms,
things like that. And so that is the Adonai divine profile of someone who is, they're represented
in the material media. So the divine images, anciently, usually had them in what's called
the striding pose. So they would have their feet apart like they're striding, and then they'd have
an arm raised with a mace in their hand. So when you think about Adonai and the Hebrew Bible,
that's the divine profile that they're trying to get across, this violent warrior, young deity.
And even within some of the Eugiridic literature, you have him messing lots of people up.
Right, right. So this is when you use Adonai, we're referring to Yahweh. And of course, you do
that out of respect for many people who've asked you, please, if you could use this name. And I
respect you for being that kind of person. I do want to get right into the controversy. I think
it's worth talking about this because several people have made a fuss, typically from what I
would say are the more evangelical side of scholars even. Obviously, evangelical type Christians
that are non-academics are going to make a fuss about what has gone on with Francesca
Stavrachapoulou online, pertaining to her book, her work. And then the ridiculous comments of
cup size and all that nonsense, which is really not even relevant anymore. It's not for us, at least.
It's really the attacks of this ridiculous idea of her book. And are you kidding me? God has a
body. I think it's really more of a jab at whatever, if you want to say God has a body. But
now you're talking about his penis, and you're talking about sex, and you're talking about all
this stuff with our God. I mean, what is this, porn hub? That's the ridicule. So can you get right
in? We're jumping in the deep end. Get your floaties on. Let's go swimming.
Yeah, the texts are not incredibly equivocal. There are some euphemisms that are being used.
But if Adonai is being represented in the Hebrew Bible in the same way that the
Storm Didi profile is represented in the other literature, and all indications are that they
are, then this is a God who comes fully equipped. And we even have this in the post-biblical period.
There are rabbinic discussions about God's body and God's genitals. In fact, there's one
discussion where somebody asks, was Adam circumcised? These days, we would say,
did Adam have a belly button? But in the rabbinic period, it was Adam circumcised. And the reasoning
that one set of rabbis came up with is, look, Adam was made in God's image. God is perfect.
Therefore, God is circumcised. Therefore, Adam was circumcised. And so there are discussions.
That's just one example. But there are discussions even within rabbinic literature
of God's genitals. And we have some furtive kind of euphemistic references in that direction in
the Hebrew Bible. Now, one of the reasons that they are more euphemistic is because it allows
the authors to kind of play with the ambiguity. A lot of people want there to just be one meaning
with everything. But there's a lot of poetry in the Bible where the authors are playing with the
fact that words can mean a couple different things. So, for instance, in Francesca's book,
we have this discussion of Isaiah 6 and the Throne Theophany. And what we have is this reference to
something, a Hebrew word that is, I think in the KJV, it's rendered his train filled the temple.
I'm actually, I'm going to pull it up real quick. Pull it up. Yeah. And by the way, your software,
people can't see behind the scenes. We're not going to keep it up. Would it be possible to
share your screen just to tease people with what you're using? Yeah. Let me just, I'm just going
to make the text even a little bigger so it's a little easier to see. And while you're doing that,
subscribe to Dan's YouTube channel. We're going to check at the end. I'm a shameless plug. But
let me just, I cannot express this enough. Your support of the guest we have ensures they come
back. So, let's show them love. Sorry. He's on thin ice right now. So, I am. I'm going to need some.
Just kidding. So, let me, let me just do a little housekeeping here. The present button,
is that what I use to share my screen? Yes. Hit present. And then you should be able to share
screen from there. And then you got to click the window. You obviously don't use StreamYard often.
Nope. But yes, I am on thin ice. And what will happen to you if you don't subscribe,
I can't even say on YouTube or they will shut this channel down. So, please subscribe. Okay.
Okay. And hit the like button. We're going to get, just wait till you see what we're getting
into here. This is going to be good. Okay. Are you, you're not seeing anything right now?
Not yet. Okay. Let me do this again. Okay. Share screen, window.
Yes. Click window you want to share. Okay. Click the window I want to share. I click share. Okay.
And thank you, Neil, for that super chat. We're going to get to those during Q&A. I really want
to unravel some stuff first. And then I did start the Myth Fish and Clips a while back,
but I just started mentioning it recently. Subscribe to the second channel. If you're not
into the long, long, long stuff, we've got the shorter little hits coming out on the second channel
of the good stuff that we do. Is it working? I just got to do, update some stuff in the
system press for Princess. So, talk amongst yourselves. Okay. Okay. How's everybody doing
today? Have you voted yet? And I mean, on the stream, I have asked the question,
does the Bible express Yahweh El? I just combined them to kind of say
that God of the Bible as having a physical body. You can vote right now. Yes. No. Absolutely not.
Right? No. Or not sure. I need more information. Maybe by the end of the stream, you'll consider
that and change your mind. You can vote right now. And everybody in the chat, if you've subscribed
right now, 234 people, if you've subscribed, press one. If you subscribed to Dan's YouTube channel,
I want to see some of them ones. Okay. I'm going to, in order to get the permission,
I have to hop out and hop right back in. Is that okay? Sure. Okay. Just give me a second.
Okay. Let's see it. Oh, I'm going to actually just put that. Okay. Let's see it. Yeah. I get
that as surprising. I get that with surprising frequency. Right. Hey, that's your style, man.
I'll see you in a second, I guess. All right. Yeah. Just a second. No biggie.
We'll see when he had, oh, he just got raptured. I knew it. He's a true saint. Thank you, everybody,
for subscribing. We're going to refresh that Joker at the end. I love the suspense of seeing
how many people go over there. Dan is on the front line dealing with conspiracy theories and
ignorance and just ridiculous claims and, and like someone will be like, we found the Ark of
the Covenant. I think his most recent one today is pretty much like this guy found the Ark of the
Covenant. And then all of a sudden he'll like, he'll be like, let's see it. And then it's some
ridiculous stuff and then he debunks it. He's back from heaven. You got kicked out of heaven.
All right. All right. Let's see. Let's see if we can do this this time. Get ready, fam.
Here we go. I see it. You see in this. Okay. So this is, if you're interested, I see a lot of
people share screenshots of Bible Hub and Blue Letter Bible and stuff like that, which gives you
the pretty standard, strong stuff. But if you're interested in something a little heavier,
Accordance Bible Software is, in my opinion, the best for looking at primary text. Logos
Bible Software is another one. But anyway, so what I've got up here is on the right, the Hebrew.
I've got the Septuagint translation and then we've got the New English translation. And on the far
left, I've got the NRSV up here. And so the word I want to look at, can you see the highlight
where the cursor is turning things blue? Okay. On the right, you've got Vashulav. And this word
shul is translated hem in the NRSV. It's train and the KJV, I think, the hem of
Israel filled the temple there and the NET. But this word really means something like
the hangar downs, the hanging part. And I've opened up the Hebrew and Aramaic lexicon of the
Old Testament so you can see how it is defined there. Up at the top, seam edge, lower edge of
a vessel, so on and so forth. So it can refer to the seams. And that's where we see this word
used a lot in the description of the Tabernacle in Exodus. Sense number two, the pubic region.
And this is primarily used in reference to women who have that part exposed as a means of
shaming someone. And then number three, seams are lower part of the body. And here it can refer to
the butt and other things like that. Or the glutes, as I learned to call them when I was
getting licensed as a massage therapist. But anyway, so when we look at this word in Hebrew,
we've got to make a decision. This is not clear. We've got to make a decision what's going on here.
And hem is one possibility, but also the idea of his genitals, the hangar downs,
the hanging parts. And so there have been arguments back and forth among scholars for what we should
give preference to here. But I kind of like the argument that has been made that the author is
intentionally playing with ambiguity here. Because the idea of a hem being so large that
it's filling the temple doesn't really make a whole lot of sense. And I agree with Francesca
and others who say that there is a sense in which this is a reference to the divine manhood.
I'm going to pop us back and forth. Let me know when you want to bring up the image that you're
showing of the text. And I'm just going to come back to me and you so people can have an enjoyment
in the video as well. And that is like, why would this is like a fundamental question behind?
I noticed with the other academic who who was, you know, one of them wrote an article,
Kip Davis is actually bringing a death blow to that article. It's going to be amazing. I can't
wait. But the idea is that they I see they want to divorce this deity from the rest of the ancient
Near East. And they don't want it to walk like a duck and talk like a duck and be a duck. They don't
want their God to be that. And that's my my personal opinions. You see that priests up come out
where they're like, no, our God is different. Just like I see Christianity is radically different
from the Greco-Roman world in which it arrives. And I'm not saying there aren't unique things about
it. But if you looked at any and every divinity and every narrative, there's something unique about
it. So yeah. So the question is, why would someone like you or Francesca or any of you academics,
and notice I'm putting you all in a category here, why would you think this could be God's
private parts? I mean, what would make your unclean mind come to such a conclusion?
Well, a lot of it, look, we're looking back about maybe 2700 20 around 2700 years into the past.
And when we look back, we do not have a pristine, unadulterated, unobscured view of what they were
saying, what they were thinking, we're looking back through thousands of years of interpretive
lenses that have been brought to this text, ways it has been interpreted. And I've made a big deal,
a number of times, and sometimes get people give me a hard time for it of saying that texts don't
have any inherent meaning. The meaning must be provided by the mind of a reader, a viewer, a
hearer. And we can only reconstruct meaning to the degree we have experience with something. And so
sometimes, you know, people will be like, well, I'm able to guess what the meaning of a word is in
some places. Yes, that's because you're bringing the context and you're bringing a bunch of other
experience to bear on how you're interpreting this. But the reality is there is no meaning anywhere,
except in the minds of hearers, readers, viewers. And so these texts, we are reconstructing the
meaning. And for folks who have a commitment to a certain perspective about deity, that perspective
is going to govern how they are going to reconstruct that meaning. But when we try to divest ourselves
of those commitments and ask how would they have reconstructed it anciently, if you try to travel
back there and say just using whatever data that we can reconstruct from this time period,
what does this tell us about how they would have viewed deity, you do not get an incorporeal deity.
There are scholars who have published arguments that the idea of incorporeality and materiality
is something that was given to Greco-Roman period Judaism and Christianity from Greco-Roman
philosophical thinkers. And so you have there are some some wonderful papers that have been
published on how the idea of God having a body was still mainstream within early Judaism and
Christianity within Christianity until about the fourth century CE within Judaism until about
the medieval period. My monities is probably the one who most widely popularized the immateriality
of God. And up until that point, most people just assumed God had a body. And so when we try to
get around these interpretive lenses that have been given to us by the received tradition,
what we see is that, as you said, this deity is another Canaanite deity. And the things that
make Adonai distinct are not these revolutionary ideas, but incremental elaborations on stereotypical
ideas. And if if I may, there was a there was a question that was asked earlier by Gnostic Informant.
Yeah, do you want to let me pop it up? Yeah, if you don't mind. We're sneaking ahead to the Q&A
here, but it's okay. If that's what you I want you to do what you think is best. But how would you
explain the evolution of Yahweh from a Canaanite God with a physical body into being outsized
based on time and why? So there are a handful of things that go into this. As God is kind of
confronting the other gods of the nations, in the Iron Age period, Israel is mainly dealing with the
other territorial states around them. And so they're presenting their deity is on a par with
these other deities. And there are some military forays into other nations. And sometimes Adonai
wins. And that's what we have in Exodus. And sometimes Adonai loses was which is what we have
in 2 Kings 327, where Adonai gets out of pocket, tries to take a return Moab to vassalage,
and Camosh smacks him down, and they've got a retreat back to Israel. And so you basically have
this this competition among equals. Once Jerusalem is destroyed, and the Judah Heights are exiled,
we now have a different problem to deal with. One, we got to figure out how we're going to
access our deity, even though we're exiled in another country. And two, we've got to figure
out a way to make sure everybody is still committed to Adonai, even though we are surrounded by all
these other deities who are more accessible, because there are a lot more divine images and
who are more powerful. And so there's a rhetorical one upmanship going on, where you got to say,
Oh, that deity is, you know, so large, my deity is larger, that deity is so powerful,
my deity is more powerful. And you keep one upping everyone. And you get to a point where
within Deutero Isaiah and later literature, where God is, you know, the earth is their throne,
and the heaven is their footstool, that's how gigantic they are. And then you get to this
point where everything becomes a superlative. They are the biggest thing ever, they are the
smartest thing ever. And this aids in people kind of reasoning about how it is that all these things
can happen, and how it is that God can know all these things and how it is God can help them
through all of these trials. And so it's basically the trying to keep up with the circumstances
and trying to present a deity that is capable of doing any possible thing that is ever needed.
And ultimately, you get to, oh, well, this deity is omnipotent, this deity is omniscient,
this deity is omnipresent. And you get to that rhetorical statement before you have a rationalization
for it, before you can explain it. And this is what I argue is the life cycle of a lot of religious
dogmas. Religious dogmas are born of rhetorical need and rhetorical necessity. And then after
they're born, you've got to go back and construct the rationale for it. And so the rationales,
the explanations, the reasoning is pretty much always secondary. You arrive at the conclusion,
and then you go back and retcon, how it is that this can be. And so you have, once you get into
the Greco-Roman period, and you get the influence from these thinkers, materiality, the flesh,
matter, this is all base, this is all subordinate, this is low. Deities are spiritual, immaterial,
that is what makes them higher. And so once you get into the third and fourth century
in Christianity, apologists are trying to make the gospel more palatable for the Greco-Roman
intelligentsia, they got to go, okay, you know what, our deity is the same. And then you reason
all of that. And so it is a deity who starts off as one among many others. And I believe it's the
second chapter of my book, second or third chapter. Okay, so chapter one is what is a deity?
Chapter two, encountering divinity, no, it's chapters three and four, deity in the Hebrew
Bible. And then chapter four is Adonai in the Hebrew Bible. And so I say, when we look in the
Hebrew Bible, here is how deity is conceptualized. And it's very, very close to how the broader
Southwest Asian world conceptualizes deity. Chapter four is Adonai in the Hebrew Bible,
and I show that Adonai tags every single base of a prototypical deity. And what sets Adonai apart
is not these revolutionary things that are unlike any other deity that has ever come before. What
they are, are responses to circumstances that require we nudge this a little further ahead,
and we twist this a little, and we bop this, and we do, and you know, we are responding to these
circumstances. And so Adonai is incrementally elaborated on in response to these changing
circumstances until they become omnipotent, omniscient, omnipotent, omnipotent, omniscient,
omnipresence, and immaterial. So this is a philosophical construct that takes centuries
to really get fleshed out. Is it like to use an analogy of like
Marvel versus Capcom or a modern kind of, you're big into the, I've seen some of your posters
and images and stuff. Do you have any on your wall right there? I think is it somewhere near
there? Yeah, so you're big into the superhero stuff. There's always competition to one up. Is
Venom better than, what is his name? Why did I bring up Venom? I love the images of Venom,
by the way. Spider-Man and X-Men and the whole nine, like they're always trying out,
do each other, and the competition of the deities is in a sense the same way, where if they, it's
almost like what John Dominic Crossen said to a Muslim scholar, and I've brought this up before,
but they were debating, not a Muslim scholar, but he might have been just a Muslim who was
trying to say Muhammad's the way, the whole nine. And he said, if your guy was around in the first
century, and he was not claiming to be a son of God, a better son of God, we probably wouldn't
even know who he is, because the game at the time was son of God, or sons of God. And of course,
we know in the seventh century, that game has played differently. Well, if you go back into the
ancient Near Eastern world, if someone goes, our God's so powerful and so beyond, he's immaterial.
He doesn't even have a body. They probably look at you and go, God doesn't even exist then,
because in their models, they had no conception at the time of immateriality and these notions.
So they're working within is what you're saying. So that brings me back to the perverted claim that
has been thrown at these academics, such as yourself, or Francesca and such. Why are we saying
in Isaiah six, or any of these other places, these euphemisms could be about God's penis?
And our sexuality of the deity, is that a common theme among the non-Israelite deities?
It is. In fact, in the Eucharistic literature, there's an interesting story. The birth of the
gracious gods is the name of this story. And we have Al strolling along the beach, and there are
two women, and he sees them. And then it says his hand grew as large as the sea. And the hand,
the yad, is a euphemism for the genitals. And then there's intercourse, they are impregnated,
they give birth to the gracious gods. And so this kind of stuff is represented frequently.
And I actually have. I've shared this before a number of times on my channel. I don't know if
you've seen it, but we have a drawing of God, Adonai, and his genitals. Have you seen this before?
Is this the one with the dangling parts right there, and she's sitting in a chair?
Somebody's sitting in a chair off to the side, yeah.
I'd love to show everybody right now, because your drawing of it is amazing.
So this is an artifact discovered at Kuntildajrud, which was kind of a way station in the southern
desert. And there was what's called a pithos, a large jar, and there were drawings and writing
all over this. And it was shattered, and this is a fragment that's been put back together.
I was going to share it. Please share it. Yeah. Okay. Unless, actually, you know what, I'll just
send it to you, because I think you're a lot better at this than I am. I'm just familiar with the
software. So yeah. Okay. Right there. And when you get ready. And so this is a drawing that I did
of this artifact. The artifact is kind of faded. It's not the easiest thing in the world to see,
but my drawing tries to make it a lot clearer what's going on in the image. Okay, I'm going to open
this image, and we're going to actually do something. I'm going to do a little better than what I did
before when I showed that picture that it's actually going to zoom in. We can actually look
very closely at this. That's the goal. So we can actually, you're going to see
much better. Is that coming through nice and clear? Let's see. Yeah, I can see it.
Okay. That seems to be about the largest I can get it. And then, yeah, there we go. Okay,
so what are we looking at here? So this is one of the drawings and inscriptions from Pithos A
from Kuntila Rajrud. And there's and the inscriptions in the drawings have all been published.
But we have these two figures here. One on the left is male, you can see in between the legs.
And on the right, we have a female lacking the the hanger downs. And then we've got indications of
breasts on the right as well. And then the the figure playing the musical instrument in the
background is highly debated, but is not really incredibly relevant to this discussion. But the
inscription above talks about a person who is is invoking blessings for and then so the top
line is the name invoking blessings. And then the bottom line, which as you can see is written
over top of the crown of the male figure, it says literally right there to Adonai of Shomron,
or Adonai of Samaria, and to Ashura. And so we have a depiction, an inscription on top of this
drawing that seems to represents Adonai and Ashura, their arms are interlocked in the drawing,
we have a male figure and a female figure. And the symbolism of these figures is patterned after
what they refer to as best imagery. This is an Egyptian deity. And there were a number of deities
that would kind of be almost like clothed in the symbolism of this Egyptian deity, Bess.
So there was a debate for a while over whether or not these are some other deities or if this is
Bess. But I think the best case to make is that this is Adonai and Ashura and they are just being
assigned these these symbols of best imagery. And I think the fact that the inscription is centered
right over the crown of the male figure, that is the name the Lamed, Yodhe, Vavhe, and then the
name Ashura at the very end, I think makes it pretty clear. So it's kind of funny you're this
today's live stream kind of overlaps yesterday's where I have, I have, we went a little bit into
Ashura of course yesterday, but William G. Dever actually uses the same image. It's a little different
because you drew this version of it, but it's the same image and he draws the same conclusions you
are on this matter. And yeah, he thinks this is Yahweh and his Ashura. And I find that quite
ironic. I think he also says that he thinks this is a woman. You can see the breast on the image.
Oh, hold on. Let me pop this up here on the right, how you drew on the far right seated.
There looks to be breast in that on that person there. And of course, they're playing what you
think is a liar. So does he, but that this chair may also represent another image he had brought
up. And I can't remember where that's from, but that it plays into this whole Ashura situation
being the divine goddess. Yeah. Yeah. And there's there's been there's been an argument as well.
There is a there's a letter hay on the end of Ashura's name. And so that's why a lot of translations
say his Ashura. And because that could be a third masculine singular, pronominal suffix,
the possessive suffix. And people say, well, you don't have a pronominal suffix on a name. So
that's probably a reference to a divine occultic image and idol. And then there's there's another
argument that that's the spelling that we always find in inscriptional Hebrew. It's Ashurata,
rather than Ashura. And so that that would still be a reference to the goddess. And so
the scholars are somewhat split. Is this a reference to a divine image? Is this a reference
to a goddess? I think the fact that we have a drawing of a female deity figure immediately
under the image supports that at least whoever wrote this and probably the people who saw it
afterwards would have understood it as a reference to the goddess and not as a reference to an
Ashura pole or something like that. Because we have on the other side of this pit those
a representation of an Ashura pole, a tree with some ibixes on either side of it feeding. So
we already have that represented elsewhere. So just back to the Isaiah 6 thing. We are not sure.
We are not sure. Not sure. This ultimately means what is actually going on. But it could very well
just be the dangly parts of the God, which could be his penis. Just like you're saying the hand
the hand that shot up to heaven, the euphemism for the hand is clearly in the context helping you
understand they get pregnant, they bear children, sons of God, the whole nine. And this is obvious
that the hand is the penis. Whereas in Isaiah 6, it is ambiguous because the context doesn't help
necessarily drive that home unless one wanted to interpret that the angels covering themselves.
Right. How does that help us possibly draw the conclusion that maybe this is time of God's
penis? So I think the traditional interpretation is that, oh, no, Isaiah is going to see our
naughty bits cover up and that they're very Victorian in that sense. And the other the
interpretation that Francesca promotes that I think is just as plausible if not more so
is that they are ashamed. They're covering up their naughty bits because they do not compare
because Adonai is so much better endowed. And so they are covering up so as to cover their own shame.
And so it's a bit of a play on words. And there are a few different plausible readings,
but I think it's important that we allow these plausible readings some space and consider, well,
what does it mean if the author was trying to suggest that Isaiah was looking at God's junk?
What does that mean about the rest of the text written by this author? What does that mean
about the theophany that Isaiah sees? And that's what Francesca is exploring in the book. It's not
to say, hey, if you think it's anything else, you're wrong. It's saying, hey, let's think about
what this would have meant if this is what was intended. And whether or not it's what was intended,
beyond doubt, that's how it was understood anciently by at least some of the people
encountering the text. And so I think it's important to give the those interpretations
some space and consider them if we want a better understanding of how this was all working
anciently rather than trying to reduce it all down so that it just makes us feel better about
our own dogmas, which is what most of the the rejections and accusations and complaints are
about is protecting dogmas. Right. I see that a lot. And before we get into God walking with Adam or
Abraham eating with Abraham and these clear places that sound like God has an actual body,
he's a physical person in these in these situations. I want to get to that, but I want to make one
mention for myself. And maybe you can tell me if, yeah, that that makes sense or not. And that is
when I started looking and talking to like Karakuni recently, I heard about this in the past,
but Karakuni is an Egyptologist I interviewed recently, wonderful, amazing mind. I'm actually
going to see her at the end of this month or beginning of May, doing two courses with her.
We're going to dive into Osirian mythology and the narrative. It's going to be amazing.
But she constantly brings up Isis and Osiris, the sexuality of this stuff, the
physical nature of the deity. Then the list goes on and there's so much sexuality from
the obelisk representing the phallus, like there's so much of this. And I'm going,
what in the world? This is very sexual. And then I find in, you know, Mesopotamia,
we find the same stuff going on and on and on and on and on. And I'm going, very sexual. And
it's everything so sexual. But then we get to this little place here in between these regions.
And we're going to say no, no, as you say, dogma. And that's why her book really using kind of a
heuristic approach to other mythologies and influential regions that we know impacted these
people due to the Genesis mythology, going back to Mesopotamia and reacting to it and stuff that
gave credence to that kind of interpretation for me in evaluating it the way you're describing.
Yeah, I think absolutely. The more we situate these texts within their original environment,
the more surprising it would be that they are not taking sexuality as a salient
sociocultural dimension of how deity works. And we have so many discussions in the Hebrew
Bible about deity facilitating conception and facilitating childbirth and things like that.
In the Hebrew Bible, at least, sex is something that is treated very transactionally,
very casually in many cases. You know, when you've got Abraham,
Sarah's not working out, she goes, well, take my slave. Okay. And, you know, and then that's
how where Ishmael comes from with with Hagar, the enslaved girl, when you have Jacob, who's just,
you know, he's traveling, he's at a long day and he's like, I could really use a prostitute right
now. And then, oh, he sees one doesn't know it happens to be his daughter-in-law doesn't know
that she's about to. Yeah, that's a great story as well. But, you know, these things are treated
pretty casually and the notion that, well, God couldn't have anything to do with that. We can't
think or talk about God in those terms is just nonsensical. Now, again, we've had thousands of
years to think about this and people who curated these collections of texts also had hundreds of
years to decide what they're going to leave in and what they're going to leave out. So,
I think if we could see all of the literature that the author of Isaiah 6 had in front of them,
everything that influenced them, I think it's beyond a doubt that there would be
more graphic, more sexually explicit discussions about God as there are in all of the nations
around Israel. And that over the centuries, a lot of that was weeded out. It was covered with
euphemism. It was reinterpreted or it was just ignored as things became and particularly as we
get into the Greco-Roman period. Once you get into the Greco-Roman period, you get this idea that
sexual desire is something to be avoided, that it is something that at least within the philosophical
schools of thought with stoicism, with Pythagoreanism and places like that, you have this idea that
this is bad. We need to conquer this because this is just the the machinations of the corrupt
flesh and so we need to overcome that and then you get the celibacy ideology that we find scattered
around Matthew and Luke and that we find in Paul. And so I think it's really that period probably
when the last vestiges of the sexuality of God were probably weeded out because we don't really
have much from we don't have anything. Well, we have two pieces of text representing about five
total verses from before the Greco-Roman period. And that's it. And that's from the Ketafinom
silver scrolls, which just have a tiny little part of the priestly blessing that date to about 600 BCE.
The next available text of any kind that we have all dates to the Greco-Roman period and after.
And so they're they're curating this and they're weeding it out. And so we are only seeing what
the editors and redactors of the Greco-Roman period wanted us to see. Right. Dead Sea Scrolls would
fall into that and all the above. What's interesting just to make one comment about the sexuality
when you get to the Greek schools in philosophy is they couldn't imagine the divinities committing
sexual acts. Yeah. Plato's like, no, no, no, gods don't have passions like we do. And so they cannot
have sex. And so when they find bad stuff from their their ancient Homer narratives about Zeus
raping a woman, they're like, that can't happen. They have found a philosophical way in which made
the most sense to them to divorce the deities from that and say that's an allegory or it means
something else. And so you find that end up happening where when the births of some of these
people, these heroes or these sons of God, like Plutarch writes about the birth of Plato. And when
he does, he says that the gods Numa, he uses the same Greek words, Denimus and Numa from Luke that
we hear about the overshadowing of Mary. He uses those for the God Zeus or was it Apollo? I think
it's Apollo. It could be wrong over Plato. So it's not a sexual union, just like someone would
look at the union between what God overshadows Mary and they go, that wasn't sexual. It's the same
thing. And so they're, it's almost like the elite thinkers, the philosophers were doing exactly what
you're saying. And the common folk, the folk religion may still have vestiges of the sex and
what not happening because they're not the intelligentsia, as you say. Yeah. And you see
this in some of the later Christian writers origin, for instance, talking about anthropomorphism,
the idea that God has a body saying, you know, this is rejected by the philosophers that so,
you know, we can't, we can't think that we have a story of I'm going to totally forget the name,
but there's a there's a monk out in Egypt that somebody is sent to go take care of this monk
who's spreading this idea that God has a body. And the official goes out there. And the monk
explains that the scriptures make it clear that God has a body. And then the official kind of
explains how philosophically this cannot be. And this is not allowed to be. And then it's the text
says the crunk, the monk cries out that I have no one left to pray to. I don't know who it is. I'm
praying to because God doesn't have a straw. Yeah, because now he doesn't he doesn't have an image
of God to focus on. And this is this is just a fundamental feature of the human experience.
We need something to focus our attention on. And in the book, I talk about how divine images are one
of the ways that we express this. And we do this even today. Headstones, people go to cemeteries
and talk to headstones. It's like that's we want a piece of material media to help us focus our
attention and say I'm directing my discourse, my comments at something so that this will help me
feel like I'm communicating with the deceased loved one. And divine images are doing the exact
same thing. And the Bible ultimately fills that role throughout much of human history. That is the
locus of divine presence and divine agency. And that's why some people think, you know,
you've got to treat the Bible differently than any other book, you're not allowed to do certain
things with it, or you have to handle it a certain way. And this is all reflecting this idea that
we need some kind of material locus of divine presence. God's body is gone. God's divine images
are gone. But we still have the book. And so the book fills that role for a lot of folks. And there's
there's some scholars and I talk about it a bit in my book, but there's also other scholarship
that talks about the Bible as an icon. Because as human beings, it's hard to keep all these
abstractions in place and to focus on them and to call them up efficiently and conveniently. And so
we like to have something physical that we can use instead. And that's what this monk was so
distraught about. You're taking that away from me. I don't know what it is I'm worshiping anymore.
I can't focus on who I'm talking to when I'm praying. Right. That's so powerful. It makes me
think of Islam with the Quran. And of course, early on, it was really the not necessarily the
book from the Islamic scholars I talked to, that it was the recitation and knowing the memory and
kind of saying and recitation. Still, we have that, right? It's still a remnant within Islamic
theology, but it has kind of really become the book and what in some circles, it's still the
recitation that's most important. But there's like, we have this book and that to them is kind of that
iconography for them to attach to the imageless, all powerful, unimaginable deity. But there was
that battle throughout the centuries. I've interviewed other scholars on this when we got into
the relic that we find of the Jesus relic of him and the shroud and how it's one of the latest
shrouds to be made. And it's still around, but people think this goes back to Jesus. I've even
think Gary Habermas tried to use an apologetic like this. And it's like, I talked to the historian
who literally is 100 feet from where they house it. And he said historically, not only does it
only pop up in the 12th, 13th century, but like they, there were many people said this was not
real, like people made this up. And so you got good reasons to think, and it's one of the later ones,
it's not even the earliest shrouds that were being made for iconography to attach and give them
something to latch on to Jesus and the God of Jesus and such with. So it's interesting. I want to
get us back on track a little, but this was so important to get that out of the way. And that is
like God's body, right? He's physical. Adam, when I used to read this as a Christian who
became a Reformed Calvinist and whatnot, I'd go, this is anthropomorphic language. God's just
trying to relate to you in a narrative that was my interpretive framework. He didn't really like
literally walk. And if he did, it was really Jesus. It was a Christ stop, right? Like it was
like Jesus before showing up in the Old Testament. So God walks with Adam. He eats with Abraham. Can
you go into some of these examples? Yeah, these are, and a wonderful book on this is called Esther,
or it's by Esther Hamory, and it's called When Gods Were Men. And it goes into what's called the
Ishe Theophany. So this is the Theophany that explicitly uses the Hebrew word ish, man, to
refer to God. And so Abraham is one of those examples. And yeah, this is how deities were
represented in the earliest periods. They looked, walked, talked like men. They, well, apart from
those that looked, walked and talked like women, but at least the God of Israel was represented as
male. And in, you look in Genesis two and three, this is a very anthropomorphic representation
of deity. That's why many scholars believe that this was the earlier creation account, because God
is creating, God creates the, the earth and then the heavens. And God creates by getting their hands
dirty in the mud. And that's how they create Adam and they're walking in the garden. And so this is
a more anthropomorphic idea of God. So this is before we've engaged in these, in this kind of
rhetorical combat of one upmanship with the other nations. But once we're on the other side of that,
you have the priestly authors coming in and they are correcting a lot of that earlier creation
account with this deity who creates the heavens first and then the earth and does not get their
hands dirty, but creates by divine fiat and does not have to correct their translation. Because in
Genesis two, this deity is like, you know, makes man that is like, hmm, needs something. Let's
make all these animals. That didn't do it. Let's, let's make a woman and is updating everything.
And then in the priestly creation account, they create by divine fiat and God saw that it was
good. Everything is good right from the start. So that creation account is correcting a lot of
what the earlier creation account was doing. And so, but they're not, they're not picturing a completely
anti-anthropomorphic or immaterial deity. They're kind of moving this deity into the heavens out of
view. So it's more of an unseen anthropomorphic. That's the priestly, the priestly version is
the priestly conceptualization. Yeah. And people, a lot of scholars are eager to read that as the
immaterial anti-anthropomorphic idea. But I would, I would say that is anachronistic. And then Abraham,
yeah, we've got in, in Genesis 18, Abraham sitting there and three men walk up and it calls them,
calls God the ish. And then suddenly Abraham is talking with, with Adonai. And we have a number
of, of instances where it seems like God is personally, physically visiting and interacting
with people. Most of them, Genesis 18 is a bit of an exception. Most of them get altered by editors.
And that's in, in my book as well. The angel of the Lord, when the angel of the Lord visits
Hagar in Genesis 16, the angel of the Lord visits Abraham in Genesis 22, Moses in Exodus 3,
Gideon in Judges 6, Manoach and his wife in Judges 13. All of these have this entity that is
physically interacting with them, that is alternatively referred to as God or as the angel.
And what I argue is that these were early stories about God directly and physically
interacting with humans, God themselves. And then somewhere along the way, somebody wrote Malak in
to create this construct phrase Malak Adonai, the angel of the messenger of Adonai. And this is in
this period, when we're starting to say, look, if our God is this gigantic being that sits in
the heavens as their throne and has the earth as their footstool, they can't sit down at Manoach's
campfire and eat some of his food. And so we write in Malak. And now we have suddenly created this
intermediary being that is going to be mediating God's presence and identifying as God themselves.
When people talk about Jesus identifying as God, they're like, well, I couldn't have said it any
clearer. It's like, yes, they could have, like the angel does in Exodus 3, 6, I am the God of
your Father. But we look in Josephus' retelling of that story, we look in the Vulgates. The angel
is not there at all. It's because that angel was a later addition to the narrative. It only occurs
in verse two. And it's just one word that was just stuck in there because people were beginning
to be uncomfortable with the idea of God in their human nature interacting directly with people.
And Genesis 18 is the one exception where we have these three individuals, and it's kind of murky
exactly what's going on there and who these folks are. But Abraham at the end of the chapter is
talking with God themselves. And then the next chapter begins with the two angels entering Sodom.
So long history of concern with this idea that that God is the size and shape and consistency
and texture of a human. But it's very clearly there. And I'd highly recommend Esther Hamori's
book, When Gods Were Men. I just added it to my myth vision recommended. It's kind of pricey
because it is scholarly. Yeah. Yeah. Unfortunately, they can get up there. Yeah. I mean, I want to read
it. So anyone who has the funds and is willing, go check it out. I want to make a few comments
before we move on. I want to talk about Jacob being wrestling with God too and what's going on
with the euphemism there and Noah's flood with the rainbow. But before I get to those, remind me,
I want to make one comment in Francesca's book. She points out in Egypt, there's a God who uses
the potter's will to create man, literally the same idea and will in which man was made from clay,
what we see in the Bible. Here is, I would almost, I'm not going to say intertextuality,
at least inner idea of some form within this framework. And it might be intertextuality,
but it kind of connects again, like, hey, Egypt's got all the sexuality and corporeality to the
deities, et cetera, et cetera. And they're using the same concept here in the biblical text.
I think it lends credit, credibility or weight to what we're talking about here today. Also,
they're rationalizing, it seems. Like, we all do it. Christians do it today. Go ahead.
What do you got there? The image of God in the Garden of Eden. This is a discussion by Catherine
McDowell. This was a revised version of her Harvard dissertation. The subtitle is the creation
of humankind in Genesis 2.5 through 3.24 in light of Mespe, Pitpe, and rituals of Mesopotamia and
ancient Egypt, which is another discussion of some of the parallels between Mesopotamia and
Egypt and the biblical accounts of creation. But here the idea is that the creation of humanity
using clay reflects the idea of creating a divine image and using these rituals of creations of
divine images in Mesopotamia and Egypt. So in addition to the idea of this deity who creates
humanity on the potter's turntable, it also resonates with this idea of
creating the divine image. So the idea that God created humanity in our likeness, in our image,
is reflected as well. So I apologize for interrupting. I told you in the beginning,
you're going to have to because I love that. I'm thankful that you're interrupting. I want you to,
it's not rude. Trust me, I want to learn. I just added that one as well to the list. So there's
an Amazon affiliate link. Amazon doesn't pay much, but it helps that they add gas to the freaking
gas in the car or whatever. If you go through that link and ever buy any books, keep in mind,
it helps myth vision. But I also have a recommended myth vision, you know, list of books there too.
Dan, your mind, I love your mind. Oh, what's this? And also this one, I mentioned this earlier.
This is edited by Francesca, Life and Death, Social Perspectives on Biblical Bodies.
And so this is about, this talks about materiality, power, extended sociality, different aspects of
corporate reality and bodies in the Bible. And so I, my paper is the very last paper in the volume
that's about forming divine bodies. But if people are interested in materiality and corporate reality
in ancient Israel, having to do with humanity as well as having to do with the divine,
this is another great edited volume by Francesca. So okay, I'm done interrupting.
Get your debit card, whip your bank out to some of these costs of money, but I added them to the
list. So there's used ones for 65. So I'm looking right on Amazon, just saying that the more prices
are hard covers 105 and these scholarly books, man, that's what they do. Jacob, I loved this story
as a kid. And Jacob wrestled with God. And I mean, I, even when I wrestled in high school,
it brought that experience to my interpretation. And I'm like, I know what went into wrestling.
And I mean, like, I still have a little bit of cauliflower. Is it this year? This year,
you see how like it's a little wrinkled up anyway, a little bit of cauliflower, but I only wrestled
for one year in my high school and it was tough stuff. So I'm like, obviously I have this image
of what wrestling is. And I can't imagine it was identical to what we're reading, but it's a,
it's, they're fighting, they're struggling. Something's going on with Jacob and God. And
God reached into his hip and, and I'm thinking like he dislocated his hip like that. I was like,
and next thing you know, he's limping off going and kick my ass. But Francesca like blew my mind
and went, hmm, that's actually probably a euphemism. And I'm going, what is going on with Jacob
wrestling God here? Is there something more going on? So that there's, that's another story where
it's a little ambiguous. And, and I think we got to, we got to let both of these stories
kind of marinate and, and figure out what the significance of each is because it talks at
the end about how that's the story where it says at the very end that that's why we don't eat that
ligament to this very day or something like that. And so some folks would say this was added as an
etiology for some kind of dietary practice. And, and I'm reading right now. Yonatan Adler's
wonderful book on the invention of Judaism, where he says that that is really outside of
Leviticus and the Torah's dietary prohibitions. That is the only story within the narrative
portions of the entire Hebrew Bible that mentions any dietary restriction. And so, and it's not
listed anywhere in the, in the dietary restrictions of the Torah. But so that may be an etiology for
what's going on there. They're trying to cover up something maybe in where they're trying to say,
you know, whenever there are practices that people are do that people do, and in ritual
studies, they refer to these as causally opaque. We don't know why we do this. We don't know what
it accomplishes, but we do it anyway. The people will try to come up with explanations. And so an
etiology is saying, Oh, we do this because there's this story. And that's what happened. And so,
because of that, we do this. And those stories are usually have nothing to do with how that
practice originally came about. So Yonatan explains that that is probably an etiological
story to account for why that part of the the hip or that area was not consumed. But yeah,
at the same time, that region is frequently used as a euphemism for the genitals when it talks about
the thigh, the leg, the hip. It's really meaning, you know, around the corner from there. And so,
and we use bosom even to kind of yeah, and these are, you know, the genitals are a pretty
important part of the social body at the time, because reproduction was so important to everybody
where living in a time where survival is not guaranteed, not even remotely. And so you want
to be able to reproduce. And this is why you have this law, for instance, that's I think it's in
Leviticus, where if some people are if a woman is fighting and she grabs is some dude's junk,
you know, that's they drop the hammer, because that's a big deal. And so there is symbolic
significance to someone wrestling and someone grabbing the junk. That's a no, no, that is
off limits in wrestling back then. So so I think that that probably comes into play as well. And
I think they're I think it's important that we think about what the significance of that could
be. So again, this this could be playing multiple different roles, this could be functioning in a
few different ways. But this is another story that most of the people who talk about this story
these days, think of this as not as God, but as an angel. And it doesn't say angel anywhere in the
story at all. It says, Jacob says at the end, I have seen God face to face. But we have way back
in Hosea, we have this story. And it says that he fought with the angel and prevailed. But when
you look at the text, you're where we miss out on this handy little etiology, by Yassar El Malach,
if you take El as the preposition, as the kind of pointing to the direct object Malach,
you miss out on by Yassar El as an etiology for the name Israel. God, you know, it's a fight with
God, El prevails or El contends or something like that. But I have argued that the editor at some
point added the word Malach there in Hosea as well, which produces the idea that Jacob was fighting
with an angel. And that becomes the interpretive lens for reading that story in Genesis for
2000 plus years. So again, some folks somewhere along the way have decided they were uncomfortable
with God being in that position. And particularly with Jacob handing it to God for most of this
fight until God says, you know, I'm going below the belt and knees him in the balls. It's over, man,
you're not doing this anymore. So now old man, yeah, I use this phrase a lot with my channel,
and I've been doing a lot lately, like that's so human. That's so human. And I like finding out
about that, you know, at one point when I was just really philosophical and theological, I'll use
the term because there's kind of an overlap there in my way of thinking biblically, I was impressed
with the omniscient all knowing like even in the Calvinist circles like pre superlapsarianism or
infralapsarianism and did God like decree all things and like that was all cool. But it was all like,
as I've said, it kind of overlaps in that mental masturbation phase of like,
just speculating in your mind and trying to have fun in your head. To me, it's really cool to get
down and dirty and find out the human fingerprints to all of this. And that's why I'm so impressed
with seeing the God that I once thought was this thing become what looks in historically like the
best setting in which this deity is looked this way. It's actually cool. It doesn't have the
baggage or the taboo of like condemnation that comes with it and all the things that we once
would think about this divinity. And if we started thinking about this divinity that way,
Francesca actually made me kind of fall in love with the research and the study,
even though this God has archaic features, it's still like studying Osiris or studying some other
divinity where you're like, this is cool. This is cool. We've got the baggage attached to this,
what I would say an ideological war going on that legitimately kind of discourages people who are
not identifying as particular people within that identity group, whether they be Christian,
Jews, et cetera. And I'm trying with this channel to give people the inspiration to get into this
and to enjoy this for the historical research as much as I can, even though I am combating somewhat.
I really am trying to do that, Dan. I don't know if you noticed that, but that's my like one of my
goals. Yeah, yeah. And I think you do a wonderful job. I think that your passion for the material
is right there and people can see. So I appreciate that. Thank you. Last one on that. And then
if you have any, I want to hear yours before we get to Q&A. That is the rainbow.
I was told that the rainbow is in the shape of a bow and arrow. It has the U shape, of course,
has the many colors. This is God's covenant sign. I will never flood you again. Is there any contextual
heuristic, Mesopotamian backdrop to think the bow, the rainbow represents a symbol of the phallus?
There are places where that seems to be the case in broader Semitic imagery. I think it's
probably, if we read that here, I think it is a bit of a double entendre. I think, again,
the author could be intentionally ambiguous. It's certainly possible and plausible.
Yeah, that one is, of all the arguments, I would say that's the one that probably
requires the most suspension of disbelief, but certainly not outside the realm of plausibility.
But I would say, if it is there, it is part of a dual presentation of the imagery there.
I'm wondering how the bow represents that. In what way does that... I can get the hand,
right? What else hands shoot up to heaven? The context is there. And you're saying,
you're admitting it could be weak. It's a weaker example. I don't think it's as clear,
but the bow is a symbol in that, what is a bow facilitating? It's sending some kind of
long object into something, to penetrate in something. Yeah. And so, in that sense,
it is the facilitator of that penetration. And so, it does not directly represent,
I mean, you're not thinking of, hopefully, an enormous phallus with a string tied on each
end of it. It is a little more indirectly symbolic. So, it is more the whole conceptual
package of what a bow and arrow does that contributes to that idea. I have a friend,
Stephen Nelson, who's like Greek guru, loves the language. He literally told me, in Greece,
the men who go to battle, oftentimes, they might have wives. And the wives have... their
conception was when the phallus penetrated the vagina, they were no longer virgins. But the men
were still virgins until they were cut or pierced in battle. So, they were considered not men until
they actually get wounded in war in some way, shape or form. According to, like, kind of a...
I don't know, like, today we have ways of thinking, oh, that's manly or whatever the social structure
is. In Greece, it was like that. So, I could see why a bow, piercing something, could represent a
war-like scenario represents the penis. And in one of her chapters, Francesca talks about Donald
Trump and North Korea with the button. That was such a great opening. We have a... oh, you have a
button? You have a bomb? Well, guess what? Mines is bigger. It doesn't matter. So, I'll press my...
And there's like a locker room talk about who's junk is bigger. Yeah. About real bombs, though.
And I think that's interesting. That's an illustration of how almost anything can be taken
over as a symbol or a euphemism for the phallus, or at least manhood. This... you know, you could
take anything. There's nothing inherently sexual about a button. But once you say, mine's bigger,
you are sexualizing that. And you are using that to compare your manhood to somebody else. So,
the fact that we can do that with a nuclear launch button
shows that to say, nah, they weren't doing that with a bow and arrow. That doesn't make any sense.
That just... it just means you're not... you can't imagine the social structures that could
contribute to that... to that conceptualization. Especially that patriarchal social structure. I
mean, they're men, men. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. So, I use the word men, men. Not saying
people aren't men today, but it's like... I grew up with that. My father was a green beret in the
Special Forces. And let me tell you, we heard it every day. And I still hear it. He lives a week...
right down the street from me. And he's head high, chest out, alpha male, like...
And so, I know exactly what you're saying. And it's always some euphemism in his thing about
how manly and tough he is. And let me tell you, well, we were downrange. And it's like, oh,
God, another story, a war story. So, any specific examples from you you might want to highlight
before we get to Q&A? No, I think... I think we've talked about most of them. Let's...
But I think I saw some great questions fly by there. So, let's take a look.
Thank you for all of this. Usual thank you for the Super Sticker. I really appreciate you showing
love, always jumping in the chat. And everybody who's been pressing one, you're letting the
algorithm gods know that we exist and they're going to help encourage promoting this. Thank you.
Brave new history. Do we see formless immaterial gods outside of space and outside of time and
space anywhere in history? Was that idea as absurd to them as physical gods are to us now?
That's... I think he actually sent this. When you were answering this question, we had... Oh,
really? Yeah, so... Yeah, it's something that develops. And I think the Greco-Roman philosophical
framework is what makes that possible, at least the way we think about being outside time and
space today. There are probably other examples that would kind of approximate that, but because
we operate with a very kind of Neo-Greco-Roman philosophical outlook today, I think that's
the origin of that idea. So, you can thank non-Christians for helping influence... Anyway,
I digress. Sentinel apologetics. Rob, ontologically, bodied God equals Jesus never existed. Wink.
Well, if the idea is that Jesus is the embodiment of God, then I guess you would say there's no need
for that if God already had a body independent of Jesus. But yeah, I don't know that there's any
that there's any relevance to the mythic argument based on that. Yeah, I don't either.
Thank you for the super chat. Dr. Pluromonot, thoughts on the concept of God's Kavod?
Kavod. Kavod. As first articulated in Ezekiel being the model of the Gnostic
anthropos, the Son of Man in Jewish Apocalypticism and the Heavenly Man in Pauline theology.
So, I think the Kavod is a proxy, is a stand-in for the Divine Presence and the Divine Body.
And there was, and now I'm forgetting the name of the book, but there was a scholar named David
Aaron. This is an older book. Let's see if I can, not it wrong. And it was called Biblical
Ambiguities, Metaphore, Semantics, and Divine Imagery. And Aaron, and that's Brill, so that's
going to be like a billion dollars. But Aaron talks in there about the Kavod in the earliest
layers as being God's body, literally physically God's body. When it talks about God's body,
it talks about the Kavod. And then that kind of being renegotiated into kind of a separate proxy
for God's body, turning into this idea of glory, which has a has a visual aspect to it in some
usage and another usage has more of an abstract kind of idea of someone's reputation or something
like that. And I talk in the book a bit about Kavod in Ezekiel as being a way to refer to God's
presence, God's physical presence, but in a separable sense. It's not God's self, but it is
this Kavod, this material proxy representation of deity. Now, that being the origin of some of
these later ideas, I think it certainly plays a role, but I don't think it is the proximate
cause of those things. I think those things are being taken up and utilized within these separate
conceptual frameworks, particularly the Gnostic one, which is taking on this
these kind of middle platonic and neoplatonic ideas of the yalta bolt and the
ions and all these different things, which is very, very, very different from what Ezekiel is
talking about. So wouldn't be surprised if there's some influence, but the relationship is pretty
thin in my opinion. Thank you so much. Camille Gregor in the house, does male and female he
created them and Genesis 1 7 27 function as an explanation of what in the image of Elohim means,
i.e. does the author say that some Elohim were male and some female. So I think that is a possible
reading of that. I don't I don't think it's so the let us make a sentence that's a cohort
cooperative. So that means it's a first person plural command or imperative. So that is widely
understood to be a vestigial reference to the divine council, which was overwhelmingly made up of
male deities in the ancient Southwest Asian perception, but there were also female deities.
And so I absolutely think that male and female he made them could be a reflection of creating
males in the image of male deities and females in the image of female deities. We don't really have
enough data to be able to say anything beyond that. Yeah, that's that's plausible. We don't see that
discussion about humanity in the image of male deities and female deities and other literature.
So it would be great if we were one day able to find data that helped us fill out that picture
a little more. But at this point, I would say it's possible, even plausible, but can't really say
much more than that. It actually overlaps the question I had yesterday was like, was Ashara part
of the council sees, you know, there with the halfway in the creation. And so are they co creating,
so to speak here? So that so that's that's an idea that a lot of people have wondered about the
the Divine Council and the Euridic literature are referred to as the 70 sons of Athirat of Ashara.
And so the idea seems to be that the patriarch and their consort are the high deities. The second
tier of deities is made up of all of their children. And so yes, and most of these would have been to
the degree that there were any traditions about where those other deities came from. One of the
traditions would have been they were they were conceived by the the parent deities, L and Athirat
at Ugarat. And so it's likely that that is to some degree, what was going on in early Israel.
And we see that in Deuteronomy 32, 8 and 9 with El Yon dividing up the nations according to the
number of the children of God. And then Adonai is among them receiving Israel as their inheritance.
Mm, powerful stuff. Thank you. Thank you. Constellation Pegasus, the Bible students,
Jehovah's Witness, taught for years Jehovah's throne was on Pleiades Constellation. He resided
there in four dimensional space, our universe. Why not have a body and wife junk and all?
I agree. That makes for a much more exciting creative period makes for
yeah, things don't get as boring or as lonely. It's relatable, right? Yeah, making making deity
so unrelatable. While I think that in many of the Muslim circles I've interacted, they think that
it saves God, right? So like they can make God unfalsifiable and all this cool stuff. And it's
like unimaginable. And whoa, you can have this like mental stimulation, but God is so much more
relatable when you're reading things what we're talking about. And that's what I like better.
Like the guy reading, praying, and then you take the image away. I don't know what to do anymore.
Like no relation. Well, and I talk about this a bit in the book, our concepts of deity grow
out of what is most intuitive and most relatable to us. And the further they get away from us,
the more we need social structures in place that can curate and enforce them. Because it's one thing
to say, you know, I think my my deceased dad is visiting me like take away our contemporary
skepticism. And that is a very intuitive thing for people to think about. Right. And a lot of
people are going to agree on that. But now if you say my deceased dad is immaterial and he does not
exist in time or in space, but he communicated with me without words and without like that is less
intuitive. It is counterintuitive. Right. And that is the kind of thing that is not going to be that's
not going to just bubble to the surface of human cognition all around the world. That is something
that somebody's going to go. What? But if you have a social structure in place that now says
this is how we are thinking about it. And by the way, we can we can sentence you to death. We can
exile you. We are going your livelihood, your your paycheck is going to depend to depend on you
agreeing with this. Suddenly, everybody's happy to agree with it. And so the further away the
concept of God gets from intuitive things that a lot of people can agree on because they they
taste good. They sound intuitive. The further away that gets, the more you need social structures
and social pressures in place to be able to curate, maintain and enforce them. And so that's why you
don't have these just totally counterintuitive concepts of God until you have a church or a
society with a very strong social structure. And so, you know, you can't have, oh, well,
this is a contradiction, but that's just a mystery. And guess what? You're going to believe it until
you have the Catholic Church. Right. You could not have ancient Israel. You could not have the
hypostatic union and the mystery of the hypostatic union, because everybody would be like, that's
done. And there would not be the social structure there that could say, well, you are now exiled.
And then actually carry through with it. So I think that's something we tend to lose in a lot
of these discussions about God as this as this very abstract conceptual being is you don't have that
unless you have social structures that exercise power over people. It's going to sound funny,
but you were you made me think of the movie Equilibrium with Christian Bell and they like
are anti art. They're like, the whole society has to take like a daily dose of some methadone
type of substance that really numbs them from experiencing the world around them. And then
one day his wife was even stopped taking the medicine and he had to turn her in and she
was put to death. During the movie stuff takes place where his own children, he has to hide it
from them thinking they don't know. And he himself stops taking it starts to see things.
It made me think that the social structure, everybody was doing the same thing and anti
art and they were all on the same page because if you're all in the same boat doing the same
things, maybe you can do dumb stuff in a way. I mean, it made me think of that. So I'm not saying
that everything that they're thinking in abstract terms is dumb. I'm just saying that you can,
everyone in a social society can come up with horrible ideas, ethically speaking, and we can
find ways to just justify it with our concepts that we've created. And anyway, and this is one
of the reasons that I get a little annoyed when people talk about how dangerous religion is. And
it's like, no, religion is an example of a social identity that can have very strong bonds. And
that's the danger. Any social identity that can have strong bonds and that can make people believe
in something larger than themselves, even if it's the state or, you know, anything like that is
capable of incentivizing people to do things up to and including giving their own life or
taking other people's lives. And so it's really the root of that is social identity and thinking,
I have to do this, or if I do this, this things will go better for my family or things like that.
So that's, that's an interesting example you bring up. But yeah, social identities are at the root
of a lot of that. Reminded me of the Sam Harris debate with Jordan Peterson about the real the
real issue he said was dogmatism. And then, and of course, he says he thinks that religion in that
social structure, he sees how people, normal individuals became radical ISIS, jihadist.
And he wants to put that blame on the religion and don't get me wrong, that particular model,
of course, is horrible. But he wanted to say dogmatism is the root because they Peterson
rightly brings up the state and non religious type of functions like that. It gets down into
some deep stuff that we're talking about here. But yeah, you're on the money, I think. Steve,
thank you for the super chat. How many views of she kind of are there in the Old Testament?
So I don't think we have that word in the Old Testament. I think that comes up in later Jewish
literature. But if you're talking about separable proxy personified representations of Deity,
there there are a bunch. The kavod is one, I think the the messenger of Adonai becomes one.
You've got the name, which is a big one. You've got the spirit, which is one there.
There are a bunch. And I talk about those in the book as well. And I talk about how I'm not
talking about several of them. I address a handful of them and leave some out. But I think for the
best discussion, the book goes into quite a bit of detail on this idea of separable, the partable
and permeable person, and how the Bible represents Deity as being partable in all these different
loci of agency and power and authority and presence and things like that.
Vote. And the book is right there just so you know, it's free in the description. You can get the
downloaded version or the you can get the hard copy on Amazon. We're going to blast through these
here. And then we'll we'll sum up and see how many subscribers we got you today. And then
check in with me over the next couple of days. I want to see if it grew. Wade Rogers, thank you
for the super chat. Jeremiah one nine, the Lord reached out his hand, touched my mouth and said,
I put my words in your mouth. And how many times did Yahweh speak out loud to Moses and others
indicates a mouth? Yeah, absolutely. I agree there. Oh, sorry. Now go ahead. It's an interesting
thing to think about like, for people who think God speaks, even today, but they have this concept
outside system. It's almost like when we talk about how silly it is that a snake might talk.
And we're like, come on, they don't even have vocal cords like we're rationalized and trying
to make sense of how a snake can talk. How can God talk if he doesn't have a mouth? Yeah. And that
frequently that is is rationalized as just the limits of human language that we have to speak
figuratively about God. And that brings up the fact that, hey, if you can't communicate about
how God is, you can't share the same idea about God. We can only agree on things we can communicate
about. And so these days, we've gotten these philosophical ideas of how abstract God is,
but they did not have the same ideas anciently. Because and to say, well, that's just the limits
of human imagination. Well, that is where you must place the limit of their ability to share
an idea about God as well. Thank you. There's so many good things in this episode. I hope you
watch it back, everybody. Teresa W, just wondering if Dan is doing a myth fishing course, really
enjoy his shorts, but also like more depth. I want to give you a plug and say you are doing courses.
So you do lectures, you do courses, and people can they can donate at whatever level they're able
to be able to take your courses. I would love to do a course with you at some point. But we'll
have to talk about that and figure out what way that'd be possible. Yeah, I do my own online
courses right now. I just did one last night, talked about how we got the biblical canon.
And then my next one will come up on Thursday, May 11. And that will be on the Divine Council.
So that'll be a one hour presentation on the Divine Council. And then I do 30 minutes of a Q&A
afterward. And so if you want more info on that, like Derek said, it's a pay what you like basis.
So as long as the minimum donation is a dollar. And you can go to McClellan.org. And that's
McClellan spelled like my username M-A-K-L-E-L-A-N dot org. And you can find information on how
to register for that if you are interested. I have the links, several links down in the description.
And if you just hunt him down and see his link, his link tree is also on Twitter. There's so many
links, you can't miss it. So I'm sure you'll find it. And yeah, and the website, I also have the
previous courses that I've done are also for sale on there. I did a course on Asherah, the
Israelite goddess, did a course on homosexuality in the Bible, did a course on Adonai and El as
separate deities and how they were conflated, done a course on Satan in the Bible. So they're
a handful of different courses if you're interested. I really appreciate that. We got another one here,
Constellation Pegasus said, Satan argued with Jehovah in his throne room. If Jehovah has to sit,
he must have it on. Yeah, absolutely. We've got a handful of representations of the Divine
Council. We have in Psalm 82, we have Adonai takes his stand amidst the gods and judges among the
gods. We have 1 Kings 22, Micaiah says, I saw the Lord sitting on his throne surrounded by
the spirits. And then God asked for somebody to go lie to Ahab to deceive him to his death.
So also a different representation of God. But yeah, we've got a number of representations of
God as entirely anthropomorphic. We don't really have anything anywhere in the Bible that says
God is not human shaped and sized. Even in the New Testament, what is Stephen right before he's
martyred? What does he see? He sees Jesus at the right hand of God in throne. And so 100%
anthropomorphic corporeal conceptualization of deity all the way through the Bible.
Thank you for that. And Joe Trapp with the Super Sticker, I really appreciate it. So
as we're getting to the end here, I do want to ask you, if you don't mind, why someone like me,
I mean, this doesn't say that the deity doesn't exist. Of course, this is a personal question of
my own. And just to get your thoughts, maybe you could say I can understand that or you can ignore
it all together. It doesn't matter. But for me, I've been making the point and some some people
wanted to recently be jabbing at me saying that I'm lying or being dishonest. And I did a little
video on it. Didn't have to, but I did on purpose because I want people to see the interactions
that go on. Oftentimes people have no clue what I have to deal with. Just like that. Was that that
click baby thing you did just the other day? Yeah, I'm lying or something like that. They wrote
that I'm being dishonest. And it's an actual person on Facebook that I'm friends with who
wrote me this because they did not like the video. This is war. They felt that I have a one-sided
channel and I don't bring on all the apologists as if Christian apologists don't have enough clout
on the internet and don't get enough attention. I'm supposed to now stop what I'm doing with the
academics I talk to and just give William Lane Craig a pedestal or all of these other academics
that are actually trying to, I almost say axe grind to prove the stuff is true. And I tend to axe
grind the opposite direction. I want to fight against what I think is out there because I don't
think it's the case. But when I looked at this deity and I said this is very much like the other
ancient Near Eastern deities. For me, it solidifies that this is an age old thing that human conception
and our perception of the divine and the natural world, this is how they viewed it. The fact that
this God had to evolve and change so much for me really nails down some humanity to this whole thing
that I think is bigger than they're giving credit for. And they'll say, well, no, no, no,
divine revelation has, God's revealing himself even more over time and you can come up with any
model to make this the case. But they said it was a non sequitur. And I simply am saying, look,
I don't buy that this divinity is real, just like I don't think Osiris or any other God, if we're
going to, we need to be fair then, like they also exist or at least seem to exist in the minds of
their believers and followers and such. So they, they're very comfortable in their philosophical
worldview, like coming up with conceptions of the deity and whatnot. And they said, well, this
doesn't prove God doesn't exist at all. Even if you can nail this God down to an anthropomorphic
corporeal deity in the ancient Near East, so what? That doesn't prove God doesn't exist. And I said,
I agree, because how can I prove that God doesn't exist? I can't, even if I identify
pitch and homie, if you will, as an atheist. I, I however think that there's good reasons to think
that men conceptualized this deity. And technically, the deity is a reflection of man, not we are
images of the deity, my opinion. They thought this was a, this was some
non sequitur, me trying to say, and I think that deity, they've kind of like thrown that God out
the window with their modern conceptions. Yeah. The end of the book of Francesca's book is the,
literally like the funeral of God in a way. Your God is no longer your God,
biblically, you have a different perception and interpretation. So what do you, what do you
think in conclusion of that whole thing that I'm kind of expressing here? I think you're
absolutely right. In fact, the book that I'm working on right now, I'm not sure what we're
going to call it. Right now, the working title is negotiating Adonai. And the idea is that
the depiction of God, the conceptualization of God is something that is constantly being
negotiated. And every renegotiation must take into account what came before. And then that
renegotiation then provides a different picture for the next generation to negotiate with. And
it is always being done within a context with certain rhetorical needs and goals and
exigencies. And so the, the apologetic idea that what I get frustrated with the notion of
you can't prove it, you can't prove much of anything at all. I don't know if people are aware
just how little we consider or how little of what we consider our human knowledge is actually
proven. But just being able to gin up the tiniest little sliver of not impossible does not achieve
a whole ton, particularly when a lot of these folks would like to say that, you know, Mormonism
is proven false. Well, if, if you can say or if you think it means something to say you can't prove
God doesn't exist, you also can't prove Mormonism is false. You can't prove Islam is false. You
can't prove heaven's gate is false. As long as I can't prove Jesus didn't rise from the dead.
And I tell that all the time to people. Yeah. Yeah. We scholarship must deal with probabilities
and weighing probabilities and what is probable, possible, impossible, plausible. And we're basically
just putting stuff in those categories and, and trying to progress our knowledge. When you're
arguing from this position that either you prove me entirely false or I win, you're not really
engaging in good faith. You're just trying to protect a dogma. But you're also deploying
precisely what you're trying to defend your dogma against, against other dogmas. And so it, I find
it just wildly hypocritical. I find it wildly inconsistent. And the same thing about people
talk to me or accuse me all the time of being methodologically corrupt, because I don't allow
for the possibility of real prophecy. And it's like, Well, no, it's not that I don't allow for it.
Personally, it's that methodologically, if you ever allow for it, you have to allow for all of it.
You cannot say it's legit here. It's not legit there. So if you're saying, Well, you, you should
allow the Bible's prophecies to, to be possible. Well, then I've got to allow every religious text
prophecies to be possible, because the moment you say, Well, not that one, you're applying the
methodologies to that prophecy that you said we're not allowed to apply over here. And so just
from a methodological point of view, that is not consistent. That is not helpful. That is just
protecting a dogma. And I find that that's what most of these folks are doing is just trying to
protect a dogma and then trying to make their protection of that dogma sound as defensible
and as legitimate and as methodologically robust as they can. And that's the real exercise.
Make it sound legitimate. And, but in reality, it's always inconsistent. It's always hypocritical.
It's always methodologically correct. That's exactly why this heuristic comparison of other
legends, apotheosis, birth narratives and things like that, whether they're genealogically connected
or not is irrelevant to my point on saying, why not Caesar Augustus be born with these
divine portents? You look at it and say its legend and me and you sing kumbaya high five and say amen
together. We get to this text and your whole everything. Well, we got to take this one is so
special and unique. We got to take this case very and then you can easily see the scholars,
you see comparison of the Gospels that don't agree on those narratives and which one's true
amongst those and which one really happened. And like it's so obvious to me that I love learning
this stuff and I love the stories and the narratives. But it just seems more like this falls into the
category of a certain genre rather than this is literal historical what is actually the case.
And so anyway, I'm venting at this point because what you've done there is so well said exactly
the debate that just happened with Bart Ehrman. And you've got something coming up with Bart Ehrman
on your podcast speaking of which. Yes. Yeah. But he Bart Ehrman was debating the resurrection
and literally was kind of pointing out this fact to the Justin Bass guy on unbelievable
podcast. And he's like, look, you're not doing that with all these others. So we had to bring
up Mormonism and say there's four or five eyewitnesses about the golden plate scenario
and Joseph Smith's having a vision of Jesus. And then they brought it to the Pauline stuff.
Anyway, I think Bart was being consistent and saying, well, why aren't you doing that with
this? And you do it with that. Of course, they have their reasons why Mormonism is falsified
or it's not true or they don't trust it. They don't agree with it. So do I when it comes to
certain other religious claims and religious beliefs. But I would almost try to do it across the
board. I'm trying to be even. That's where yeah. And a lot of people just don't. Once it is their
social identity that is in the crosshairs, it feels unfair. And that's just a natural human
reaction. Right. And so yeah, but I interviewed Bart yesterday regarding
his new book, It's Here Somewhere Armageddon, what the Bible really says about the end.
We had a wonderful discussion and that should come out in a few weeks. And we're going to be
dropping the first episode of my podcast this weekend on YouTube. We'll put it on YouTube.
We're going to find some other places for it. I think my partner went live with our Patreon.
So I've had a lot of questions about how we can support. I don't know that he has any
tiers up yet. So I don't know if that's even working, but patreon.com forward slash data
over dogma is the address for that. The data over dogma podcast. Yeah, we're it's going to be on
YouTube. I've got a Twitter account right now data underscore over underscore dogma. Yeah, we'll
have that stuff set up. But the first episode will go live. It'll and we'll push it out to a
bunch of podcast hosting platforms. Is that in your link tree your Patreon yet?
My Patreon, my own McClellan Patreon is in my link tree. The data over dogma one is not there
yet. So that's okay. Yeah, I will get it there. So yeah, that's the data over dogma podcast is
a partnership with with a friend. And so I keep that distinct from from my McClellan stuff.
Well, here, I'll put that one here in the chat right now. And I asked that everybody
take the time obviously to subscribe to your YouTube work. We're we got a couple more super
chats. I just want to bounce from those and get into Oh, wow, you're really dropping some stuff
here. Oh, I know that. Oh, gosh. Yeah, that was the slavery panel promo I did. Yeah, he was he was
talking about the slave Bible. Well, go check him out help support the academics you appreciate.
That's the goal, right? We're going to refresh this in just a minute. So please while we have
a few more super chats, go subscribe to Dr. Dan McClellan. If you like what you hear and you want
to hear more, trust me, he's doing God's work. Okay, I mean that. I'm not kidding. You know,
I have Christians who actually love what I do, Dan, and I love them. I don't care about their
ontology. They're they're saints to me. They're so nice. They're so loving. They're great people.
They don't judge me because I think differently at the end of the day. There are some radical,
I would say social and ethical and and ideological battles that go on. And that is where it's like,
okay, hold up, we've got some issues. So hang five shy, forgive me if I butchered that. It seems
a theme that the cosmos is often made out of the body of vanquished gods ever since Francesca
Stavrakapulu's book. It seems Judaism has this too. But the dividing up to home is this a sex assault?
So there there is an argument to make that a lot of what's going on in in some of these early
mythologies is the male assault on a female body. And you see this in there's even some ways that
this happens in the Bible, for instance, in the book of Revelation, you have this comment about
this. The person will be I think most most Bible translations say I will throw her on her sick bed.
And it doesn't really say sick bed, it just says I will throw her on the bed. And there's an argument
to make I think Stephen Moore does it does it effectively that this is a sexual assault of
the horror of Babylon, this person who's being represented as a sex worker. And yeah, the so the
deity can be sometimes represented as someone who and I think we see it in Ezekiel and maybe even
Jeremiah as well where God is going to pull their skirts up over their face to expose them to shame
them, which is also a species of sexual assault. And so if it if authors found it rhetorically
helpful to represent the deity as doing that in some of these metaphors where God is the wife,
then they were happy to do it because women were not really represented as fully autonomous
agents of unto themselves having full personhood and autonomy. And so they could be used to
to symbolize that. And so yeah, there's a degree to which yes, the creation of of the earth and
some of these mythologies. And then you have some even weirder ones where ancient Egypt,
there's one mythology where the the material of the universe was created by a deity pleasuring
themselves and spurting out everything in the universe. And so there's a whole
isn't it? I think our friend, the Egyptologist, Karakuni said something about they pleasure
themselves with their hand, they put it in their mouth, and then they spit out creation.
Yeah. So there's a there's a broad range of what they found entertaining,
anciently. But yeah, that's a that's a genre. Don't try to Google that genre of creation story.
But yeah, they they did a lot of weird stuff. I was thinking, I wondered if
Marduk and Tiamat had any overlap there. But I've even heard the idea that Leviathan, but the
the destruction of this creature or low 10 and Hittite ideas, but that the creation from the
dragon or the beast to serpent that that watery chaos figure, if if that does that have any sexual
inclination there, is it just purely warfare? So I would say that's that's mostly that's mostly
warfare going on there. But it is taming chaos. It is taking what is chaotic and bringing it into
order. Right. And so in the Babylonian account, Tiamat is a chaos deity. And so Tiamat is female.
And so there are there are some ways that the feminine is represented as chaotic. And so bringing
order to the chaotic is about taming the feminine. And I mean, you can you can find that in some
places. I don't think it's incredibly salient in the Bible. But but absolutely that is a dimension
of what is going on in some places in the ancient world. Wow. Okay. And then yeah, like and I think
you could even talk about Proverbs. Proverbs talks about women who are chaotic and and how no, you
need a you need a wife who is who is calm and who is going to be on your side and all that kind of
stuff. So it you know, some of that to some degree is bubbling to the surface and some of the wisdom
literature. Thank you. Temmie, thank you for the super chat and or super sticker and being a member.
We need to get the last couple here and wrap it up constellation Pegasus. Whenever I hear the word
junk, it reminds me of don't taze me, bro, sound bite. Not sure why I'm super chatting this.
Thank you for that. And then says is Elohim and Genesis one one singular or plural? Singular.
So Elohim can be singular or plural. Throughout all of Genesis one, Elohim is singular. You can tell
by looking at the pronouns and the verbs. So the Rashid Barah Elohim Barah is in the singular. So
Elohim is the subject. It is singular. And even in Genesis 126, it says Elohim says,
let us make. And so that let us make is that first person plural, co hortitive or imperative.
And Elohim is not the subject of the verb, let us make. And so Elohim is not being used in a plural
in there. Now, when we get to Genesis three, Genesis six, Genesis 11, we do have plural
uses of Elohim. But in one, it's all singular. All right, that's it on the supers. Drop in the
banner. No more supers. Let's close this vote here in pole. Does the Bible express, you know,
Yahweh El to have a body? And let's see if that shows up in my stream yard here.
There we go. Let's see. It isn't showing up on this end. Okay, yes. Does the Bible express
Yahweh El as having a physical body? 59% of people said yes, which is shocking that it's not more.
Not sure 25%, which is okay. Maybe there's just not not sure. And then 14% said no with 528 votes.
Just figure I'd let you know where the voting count is on that. Why not? I like to do that.
Have you subscribed to Dr. Dan McClellan? Well, it's too late right now in terms of knowing the
numbers, but we're about to refresh 14.3 K subscribers, refreshing now. And later on,
I'm going to be checking this as well. 14.4. So at least we can see more details to see if we at
least got 100 people over Dan. Let me take a look real quick. I like while I'm at it. I also,
I don't know if I gave you the something went wrong. I don't know if I gave you the
URL earlier, but I also we also have the data over dogma YouTube channel. So youtube.com forward
slash at data over dogma if anyone is interested in subscribing there. That will be that will be
where we will put all of our episodes. So we are recording. There's nothing there yet. But we are
recording audio and video. And so we'll put those there. Let's see what I'm going to do.
Let me see how many subscribers we got you. Okay. All right, let's take a little litics.
Someone said, I don't know how granular I can I don't know how granular I can get on this.
But what does it show you exact? It should if you go in your analytics. Yeah. So what time did
we start 11? Yes. So 10 10 10 Pacific but oh 10 Pacific 11 am my time. So what I'm looking at is
my time. So there were 748 subscribers between 11 and 12 and 638 between 12 and one. So that would
be 1387. Hold on on YouTube. Oh, that's no no no no. That's a lot. I was gonna say that's no
yeah, I'm sorry. I'm looking at views. Where's this? I clicked on subscribers over on the side
and I thought it would update this bar on the right. Yeah, I don't know how to see the how
granular I can get. I'm a I'm a noob. Well, I know they had 14.3 when I first started and
then now it's a 1444. So we're at least 100. And I hope more follows to go support you. What you're
doing is extremely important. I think it's needed in this what we're talking about this ideological
war, the culture war, and just critical thinking war of like, and I'm using war and I probably
shouldn't because it gives off a vibe that I don't know if it's needed, but it is a battle that
not enough people are practicing critical thinking in their approach on these things.
And I think it harms a lot of others who aren't like them who aren't thinking the way that they're
thinking about these things. So someone super chatted literally just to say keep fighting the
TikTok nonsense. I appreciate the kind words that I've seen in the comments and the great
questions that have been asked and I appreciate the support from the folks here. It is I'm not a huge
fan of framing things militantly, but but we are trying to help people live better lives. We're
trying to help people be able to think more critically and more productively about themselves
and the people around them because there are lots of ways that a lot of this thinking when it is
combined with access to systemic power can harm and can hurt. And that was something that I brought
up with with Bart yesterday, where he talks about revelation. When we look at apocalyptic literature
in the ancient world, it's being written by the underdogs. It's being written by the oppressed.
But when the oppressed becomes the oppressor and that text is still authoritative,
they need to find themselves in it. And so they need to find oppressors out there who are oppressing
them. And that usually means the oppressor then tries to frame the people they're oppressing as
the aggravators. And that usually results in more oppression on their part. And so
there are a lot of folks these days who are being hurt by Christian nationalism and by religious
fundamentalism and particularly in the US by Christian fundamentalism. And so if people can
learn to think a little more critically, that doesn't mean they have to give up their faith.
But I think we do need to give up the boundary maintenance and the attempts to try to wield
power over those who are more vulnerable, more marginalized, more minoritized than we are,
because that's just hurting people. And if anybody believes that everybody in the world is a son or
daughter of God, it means we're hurting God's children. And if you are someone who believes
in that, then that should hopefully be a bad thing in your view. As I know it, it is in yours,
Derek and most of the people who probably follow your channel.
Dan, you couldn't have said it better. I really appreciate you coming out here and talking with
us, educating us. I hope everybody has a wonderful day, especially you. And yeah, keep me updated.
Let me know how the subscriber thing goes. You can help support him, huh? We'll do.
Please do. And you can help support us. You can help support him down in the description.
I hope you have a wonderful day. Never forget we are MythVision.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is? After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland. And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth. Nothing more.
