The violent storm god Yahweh takes no pity.
In the depths of ancient history, a storm deity reigned with unparalleled power, or
so it would seem, to those putting the Bible on a pedestal.
Today we invite you on an extraordinary journey into the realm of Yahweh, the storm god who
shows no mercy to his enemies.
Yes, we will show you the destructive behavior of this deity, but is he alone in his conquest?
No.
Did the biblical events even happen?
Were there other kings and gods who did similar things to other nations in the same way that
Yahweh commands Israel to do to the Canaanites, Imallikites, or any other aites?
For many, this documentary will be shocking because it shines a light into the dark nature
of the biblical deity.
For others, well aware of these issues, you will value the depth of scholarly observations.
We will also cover many of the apologetic responses to these biblical events, showing
you how none of their arguments stand up to the problem.
More importantly, MythVision hopes this documentary helps one see the human fingerprint in the
construction of the biblical narrative.
The description of this deity seems all too human and dated to the period in history when
other kings and gods were doing the same to their enemies.
Someone in the back may shout, that's the Old Testament and we live in the New Testament
age.
Jesus would never promote this kind of destruction.
We will cover apocalyptic violence in the New Testament.
Suffice to say, the New Testament arguably is worse in nature than the Old Testament.
I will let you be the judge, so tell me what you think in the comments.
This video is based off the excellent book by Dr. Joshua Bowen called The Atheist Handbook
to the Old Testament Volume 2.
Be sure to grab a copy in the description.
It comes in hardcover, paperback, or on Audible for you to listen to.
I swear this book is loaded with great insights and he sources all the arguments he makes
for you to be able to check or fact check what he says.
Subscribe to our channel to not miss out on any part of this epic journey and hit that
bell so YouTube notifies you every time.
Hit the like button to show your support and join the discussion in the comments section.
Share your thoughts, your theories, and be part of this incredible exploration.
This is more than a documentary.
It's a journey into the heart of a storm.
Welcome to the world of Yahweh, the storm deity who takes no pity.
Let the adventure begin introduction.
They had been waiting for this moment for years.
He and his wife had been longing for, dreaming for, a son, and it had finally happened.
The boy was everything that a father could ask for.
Life could not have been better than came that fateful day.
Take your son, your only son, whom you love, Isaac, and go to the land of Moriah to offer
him up there as a whole.
How could God tell this man to kill the son he had waited for all these years?
This is, of course, the dilemma in one of the most famous stories from the book of Genesis.
What Jews refer to as the Akhada, the binding, Abraham's sacrifice of his son, Isaac.
Dr. William Dever summarizes the problem with this passage well.
One story about Abraham is difficult to rationalize on any grounds, because it appears to impugn
the motives of both Abraham and Yahweh.
That is the famous story of Yahweh's command, that Abraham sacrificed his beloved son, Isaac,
the miracle child as a bloody offering.
The biblical rationale, of course, is that God was only testing Abraham's faith and
unquestioned loyalty.
But what kind of God would do such a thing, and what kind of father would willingly comply?
The violence that appears throughout the pages of the Hebrew Bible has presented no small
problem for people who wish to build their ethical systems upon or derive their values
from this sacred text.
While philosophical issues like the problem of evil are discussed and debated in relation
to theism, the problem becomes exponentially greater when the deity not only allows but
also commands what we would consider to be evil actions.
The ethical difficulties with many biblical passages and the theological concepts they
engender often become obvious when sincere believers attempt to convince unbelievers
of the goodness and love of God.
Apart from these interactions, it seems quite common for many semi-regular church attendees
to receive some form of indoctrination as a means of addressing God's commands of
violence in the Old Testament.
As we will come to see in this documentary, believers are trained, both from the text
and the pulpit, to resolve the problem of human suffering at the hands of Yahweh in
one or both of the following ways.
Victims of divine violence, one were completely deserving of God's wrath and judgment, and
or two did not suffer in the way we think as the text frequently contains culturally
appropriate hyperbolic exaggerations.
Dr. Hector Avalos explains it in this way.
For believers, these conscious or unconscious, apologetic approaches to the violent commands
in the Hebrew Bible are, in my experience, not only incredibly effective, but generally
emotionally satisfying.
If the text is not being hyperbolic, for example, then one can rest assured that God had a morally
justified reason for his pronouncements of violent judgment.
In fact, we will see that many of these narratives hinge upon the implementation of violence,
particularly requiring it to be all pervasive and total in its execution.
In some cases, more than I would like to think, believers are not only emotionally and intellectually
satisfied by these apologetic arguments, but they are actually emboldened and even excited
about God's violent behavior in both the Old and New Testaments.
Much to my dismay, I am sometimes forced to interact with individuals online who actually
take pleasure in the prospect of being able to put their foot on the throats of their
unbelieving enemies sometime in the near future.
I will sometimes hear, it is true that relatively few are so enchanted by their beliefs and
an impending day of judgment in which they will be given power over their perceived enemies.
However, I do not think that, on a deeper level, this is an uncommon form of comfort
and consolation to believers who feel themselves persecuted by their society and culture.
We will return to this mentality and its connection to the Old and New Testaments.
In this documentary, I would like to address the problem of divine violence and genocide
in the Hebrew Bible from a few different angles.
First, we will examine the nature of Yahweh's vengeance that is encapsulated in the crucial
Hebrew word, harem, or the ban.
Exactly what this word means and how it is used is essential for understanding divine
violence in the Old Testament.
Following that, we will establish what the Old Testament has to say more explicitly about
violence, particularly when presented in the form of direct commands given by God.
At the same time, we need to determine what the original authors most likely meant when
they penned these violent passages over and above what later theological interpretations
would suggest.
Relevant passages from the Old Testament will be discussed, including clear examples of
such problematic texts that contain commands about the conquest of the land of Canaan and
the wholesale slaughter of the Amalekites.
We will then address and evaluate common apologetic responses to these difficult passages in the
Old Testament using both the internal logic of the narratives and comparisons with similar
ancient Near Eastern texts that likewise contain violent divine commands.
The first apologetic defense is to point out the supposed absolute wickedness of the victims
of God's violent behavior.
Didn't you know that these people were offering their own babies on a burning altar to Mulek?
They were the most wicked and violent people imaginable.
God had to wipe them out.
The most obvious problem with this approach will become clear almost immediately upon
investigation.
But suffice it to say, it requires a particular presupposition or predetermined conclusion
regarding the fidelity of the Old Testament texts.
However, even assuming that these victims were wicked, we will see that the apologist
must be willing to not only defend Yahweh's actions based on this metric, but also the
acts of the other gods in the ancient Near East.
It is also quite common to hear, it's all hyperbole.
Some of the language used in the text we will examine appears to be hyperbolic.
When responding to criticisms of the celebration of violence in the Bible, you have probably
heard someone say,
We even do this today.
Boy, the Steelers slaughtered the Vikings in the game on Sunday.
We obviously don't mean that one football team actually killed the other.
It is argued therefore that since someone of the language in the biblical texts likely
contains some level of exaggeration or hyperbole in what it reports, this resolves the issue.
Spoilers.
It does not.
It will also be important to examine the genre of apocalypticism in the context of divine
violence, as there is a direct connection between the apocalyptic mentality and vivid
descriptions of anticipated divine violence and retribution.
Apocalypticism is more properly a type of worldview that began to develop in the Persian
and Hellenistic periods, circa 400 to 150 BCE.
Aspects of it are evident within the Hebrew Bible, particularly in the book of Daniel,
and it became quite pervasive in the books of the New Testament.
Perhaps especially in Revelation, while we will not spend a great deal of time in the
New Testament, it is important to recognize the part that apocalypticism played in developing
a violent mindset as cosmic good will in fact must ultimately overcome evil, inevitably
through violence.
Finally, I would like to spend a bit of time engaging with how these violent passages and
ideas affect us today as modern readers.
This will have less to do with what the text actually meant in its original context, and
more to do with the effect that the divine violence in the Bible has had on the way adherents
understand and interact with these theological ideas.
Can violence and its use in the Bible have a subtle but dangerous effect on the modern
reader, both in what they believe and in how they behave?
And Yahweh our God also delivered into our hand Og King of Bashan and all his people,
and we struck him down until there was not a single survivor remaining, and we captured
all his cities at that time.
There was not a city that we did not take from them, 60 cities, all the region of Argov,
the kingdom of Og of Bashan.
All these cities were impregnable, high walls, gates and bars.
Besides very many rural cities, and we completely destroyed them, just as we did to Sihon King
of Heshbon, completely destroying every city, men, the women and the small children, Deuteronomy
3, 3, 6.
Pretty strong language.
The phrase that is translated, you must absolutely destroy them in verse 2 and completely destroy
in verse 6 stems from a verbal root that is used in the word harem, which is most literally
translated the ban.
This word shows up in several different violent and problematic contexts, but what is harem?
What does it mean to be under the ban in the Old Testament?
We need to establish what is meant by dedicating someone or something to total destruction
or to the ban, as it will come into play in much of the following discussion.
Let's begin by looking at the meaning associated with the verb and noun forms of the word.
As a verb, the root, harem, normally carries the meaning to put under the ban.
Super helpful, huh?
More basically, it has the idea of separating, setting, something apart or dedicating, something
for someone's use or purposes.
Once dedicated, it is no longer available for use by others.
In the Hebrew Bible, this type of dedication is made almost exclusively to Yahweh.
Because Hebrew is a Semitic language, we can look at other Semitic languages and see if
they also have a form of this word and if it is used in a similar way.
This root appears, for example, in Akkadian.
The verb haramu can be found in lexical lists with the Sumerian word to cut, separate.
The noun is essentially the same, something that is set apart or dedicated to something
for their use.
It may be that the Akkadian word for prostitute, haremtu, is related to the same root with
the idea of being set apart or dedicated to the activity.
In both languages, Hebrew and Akkadian, the root haramu seems to carry similar meanings
as it refers to things that are separated out or set apart for a particular use or activity.
Returning to the Old Testament, we encounter primarily two contexts in which these words
occur, less frequently when something, someone, is dedicated to Yahweh for cultic use, but
more commonly when something, someone is dedicated to Yahweh for destruction, Dr. Russell explains.
The idea of the ban developed in two different directions.
One possibility was the concentration on the sacred object.
The ban became an extreme form of consecration.
The object was not destroyed or killed, but transferred to God, actually to his priests,
for holy use.
On the other hand, the aspect of the sacred could fade completely, and ban assumed the
meaning of complete extermination, mostly as a result of wars.
While the cultic occurrences are important to the discussion in general, for our purposes
in this video, we will dedicate ourselves, I'm so funny, to investigating the destruction
passages in the context of war.
There are several passages that demonstrate this particular use of the word harem or harem,
but I will mention just two here.
We will revisit them in greater detail later.
The first is in Deuteronomy 2, where Moses is recounting the Israelites' defeat of
Sihon, king of Heshbon in Transjordan.
In verses 33 through 34 we read.
Here, the text details what it meant for the city to be dedicated to the ban.
They were to leave no survivors, down to the men, women, and children.
Dr. Dozeman writes.
Deuteronomy 234 illustrates when Moses describes the nature of the defeat of Sihon as utterly
destroying men, women, and children.
He concludes, we left not a single survivor.
See also Deut 3, 6, 13, 16, 2017.
The ban is violated if Israel makes a covenant with a nation and thus shows mercy.
Similarly, in 1 Samuel 15, a story that we have discussed on several occasions now, we
see Yahweh commanding Saul to take military action against an old enemy, the Amalekites.
As with Deuteronomy 2, 33 through 34, earlier, the ban, or dedication, results in the dedicated
objects or people being utterly destroyed.
The rationale for having to kill or exterminate all living things that are placed under the
ban has to do with them being set aside or dedicated to Yahweh.
Dr. Rossell states.
Its basis is the view that the banned object, which might be a living being, belongs to the
divine spear and is therefore excluded from normal, profane utilization or existence.
This often means that it must be exterminated.
If you set aside something for a deity, then no one else is able to partake of or utilize
what has been dedicated.
Consider for example the idea of sacrifice.
The object being sacrificed is dedicated or given to the deity for its use.
Dr. Gerstenberger explains.
By all rights, the slain animal belongs to the deity, Psalms 50-10.
Portions of the harvest and of livestock indeed, occasionally even one's own children, belong
to God, Exodus 22-28 or 29 in English version.
When something is dedicated to the divine spear, this most often results in that object
being killed or destroyed.
In the case of people, if you place them under the ban, it precludes or bans anyone else
from interacting with or showing mercy to them.
Thus, the banned groups or individuals are to be killed.
Dr. Van Wilkbos writes.
The verbal root of the word ban means to consecrate or to devote and denote something or someone
that belongs to the deity.
Leviticus 27-28-29.
In the context of Israel's wars of conquest, it means that what is so devoted is to be entirely
destroyed.
When not adhered to completely, this type of dedication carries with it wide-ranging and
serious consequences.
Consider again the story of Achan from Joshua 7, which was part of our overview of the biblical
narrative earlier.
These commands in Joshua 6 stipulate the complete destruction of the city of Jericho
and its inhabitants.
All the goods that are salvaged from the ruins, including valuables like silver, gold, iron
and bronze are to be brought into the house of Yahweh and likewise dedicated to him.
We see in chapter 7 that a certain man named Achan violated the command and took a few
things from the city, hiding them under his tent.
This brought severe judgment upon Achan, his family and even the nation because of this
one act of defilement.
When something is dedicated to Yahweh, there are no half-measures, a thing cannot be partially
dedicated to a god.
Significant passages of violence and genocide.
As you can imagine in a documentary like this, there is no way that we can cover all the
various passages that describe divine violence and genocide.
However, I would like to go through several significant passages, particularly in the books
of Deuteronomy and Joshua, that prominently feature some of the most problematic violent
divine commands in the Hebrew Bible.
Later in the video, we will extend our investigation to other violent texts in the Old and New
Testaments.
But the passages examined here will lay the groundwork for what is to come.
We will focus on Deuteronomy 7, several passages in the book of Joshua and 1 Samuel
15.
Deuteronomy 7, a call for destruction.
When Yahweh your god brings you to the land that you are about to enter to possess and
he drives out many nations from before you, the Hittites, Gurgashites, Amorites, Canaanites,
Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites, seven nations greater and mightier than you.
And Yahweh your god hands them over to you and you strike them down.
You must absolutely destroy them.
Do not make a covenant with them and do not show them any mercy.
Deuteronomy 7, 1, 2.
We have already seen sections of Deuteronomy 2 and 3 that describe the ban that was inflicted
upon Sihon king of Heshban and Ag king of Bashan in transjordan.
Moses admonishes the children of Israel to keep the law.
For Yahweh and not worship other gods, for those who forsake Yahweh will themselves be
destroyed.
Deuteronomy 7, 10.
For the children of Israel, the great danger of falling into rebellion by worshiping other
gods was exacerbated by the continued presence of foreigners in the land surrounding them.
Notice verses 3 through 4.
And you shall not marry them.
You shall not give your daughter to their son, nor shall you take their daughter for
your son, because they will turn your son away from me, and they will serve other gods.
And the fierce anger of Yahweh will burn against you, and he will destroy you quickly.
Deuteronomy 7, 3, 4.
In verse 16 we read.
And you will destroy all the peoples that Yahweh your god is about to deliver to you.
Your eyes shall not look compassionately on them, and you shall not serve their gods,
because that will be a snare for you.
Deuteronomy 7, 16.
We see here that both negative and positive commands were given to the Israelites.
Negatively, they were to keep from intermingling with the native residents and were to show
no pity on them.
As for the positive command, they were to absolutely destroy them, along with all the
cultic paraphernalia in the land.
The point was that they were to maintain their absolute purity by removing all things that
might tempt them to fall into worshiping other deities.
Dr. Craigie summarizes the policy of eradication in Canaan this way.
When the Israelites conquered their new land, they were to destroy the old inhabitants, refusing
to enter into any kind of treaty with them, either political or marital.
Any kind of treaty would be a compromise and would lead to disaster.
Therefore, the Israelites were to destroy systematically the physical religious, furniture
of their enemies, indicating thereby their complete lack of recognition for the gods
of their enemies.
Toward the end of the book of Joshua, after Yahweh had defeated and driven out Israel's
enemies from the land of Canaan, similar command is reiterated to the people.
Now take great heed to yourselves to love Yahweh your God, because if you in fact go
back and cling to the remnant of these nations, these that remain with you, and you intermarry
with them, and you go into them and they into you, you must surely know that Yahweh your
God will no longer drive out these nations from before you, and they will be to you
as a trap and a snare, and as scourges against your sides and as thorns in your eyes, until
you perish from off this good land that Yahweh your God has given to you.
Joshua 23 12-13
Notice the emphasis on maintaining separation from foreign influence, as it would ensnare
the Israelites to fall into idol worship, leading them to suffer the consequences of
Yahweh's wrath.
Dr. Tige summarizes,
The reason for the severe treatment of the Canaanites is to prevent the Israelites from
intermarrying with them and being lured into the worship of their gods in violation of
the first two commandments.
The experience at Peor, recorded in Numbers 25-13, had already shown how sexual attraction
leads to worship of foreign God.
This reference to the incident at Peor is one that the reader is likely familiar with.
The Israelites were seduced by foreign women, which brought the wrath of Yahweh upon them.
It is this same principle that operates in Deuteronomy 7, if the Canaanites are left
to remain in the land, they will become a snare to the Israelites, cause them to worship
other gods, and thereby incur Yahweh's wrath.
For this reason, they must be eradicated.
Deuteronomy 20, Rules of Engagement
In Deuteronomy 20, we have a detailed set of rules of engagement by which Israel is
to operate.
The targets of Israel's military aggression are divided into two groups, those cities inside
the land of Canaan, and those that lie outside.
Each group is to be engaged in a distinct manner.
When you draw near to a city to do battle against it, you are to proclaim to it an offer
of peace, and it will be that, if it, the city answers you peacefully, and it opens
up to you, then it will be that all the people that are found inside will be available to
you as forced labor, and they will serve you.
But if it will not make peace with you and makes war with you, then you shall besiege
it, and Yahweh your God will deliver it into your hand, and you shall strike down all its
males with the edge of the sword.
But the women, and the young children, and the beasts, and all that is in the city, all
its spoil.
You will take as plunder for yourselves, and you will consume the spoil of your enemies,
whom Yahweh your God has given to you.
Thus you will do to all the cities that are very far away from you, which are not from
among the cities of these nations, in Canaan, Deuteronomy 2010-15.
Here the text is speaking exclusively of those cities that are far off.
We are not dealing with the Canaanite cities of the promised land.
These will fall under a different set of rules in the following verses.
The plan was that Israel would trust and obey Yahweh, take Canaan, and then expand outward,
extending their dominion far outside Israel's borders.
It is these cities with which the text is concerned here.
Dr. Lumbum explains.
The warfare envisioned is like what occurred under David when battles were fought outside
Canaan proper, 2 Sam 1019, or what could have occurred if the conquest had taken in all the
land originally promised like Philistia, Lebanon, and Aram, Syria, east to the Euphrates.
What was the procedure?
The Israelite army was to approach each city outside the land and offer it the chance to
make what amounts to a full surrender, an offer of peace, shalom.
Dr. Nelson writes.
Verse 10 is not so much a diplomatic proposal of peace as a non-negotiable demand for submission.
There are only two possible alternative consequences, capitulation or siege.
These two options, of course, do not present a choice between a good and a bad situation
for the city, but rather of choosing between two bad options.
On the one hand, the foreign city could surrender, in which case they would become a vassal state
subject to forced or corvée labor, Hebrew mass.
Dr. Lumbum describes this type of forced labor.
This would be task work in agriculture and construction projects such as David, required
of the Ammonites, Qun Sam 1231, and Solomon, required of Canaanites who had not been expelled
from the land.
1KJs 915-21, CF Judge 127-35.
The Jibyanites became hewers of wood and drawers of water, Josh 921-27.
Should they refuse to surrender, to be subjected to forced labor, the Israelites would lay siege,
gain entry to the city, and kill all the men.
They would then take the women, small children, animals, and anything else of value as plunder.
The men of the city likely represented the fighting force, and none were to be left alive.
The anachronistic idea of taking prisoners of war is not found in text.
The enemy combatants are not spared.
Anyone left alive in these imagined conquests now belong to the Israelites.
In short, for cities outside the land of Canaan, the offer was vassalage or destruction.
But what about the cities that were inside Canaan?
A different fate awaited them.
However, from the cities of these peoples whom Yahweh your God is about to give to you
as an inheritance, you must not leave anything alive that breathes.
You must certainly completely destroy them.
The Hittites and the Amorites, the Canaanites and the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites.
Just as Yahweh your God has commanded you, so that they will not teach you to do according
to all their abominations, which they have done for their gods, leading you so sin against
Yahweh your God, Deuteronomy 20, 16 to 18.
There was to be no offer of peace, no opportunity for forced labor, not even the chance for
women and children to be spared as plunder.
One was to certainly be destroyed, again following the logic of the earlier passage
in Deuteronomy 7 and in keeping with what we will see coming throughout the book of
Joshua.
The rationale is clear.
To leave a remnant of outsiders in the land where Israel is dwelling would leave open
the possibility for temptation to fall into idolatry and be destroyed by Yahweh.
Other well-known divine commands for violence and genocide come from the book of Joshua.
As the Israelites take the land of Canaan in the conquest, the book opens with Yahweh
commanding Joshua.
Moses, my servant is dead, now get up, cross over this Jordan, you and all this people,
to the land which I am about to give to them, to the children of Israel.
Every place where the soul of your foot will tread, to you have I given it, just as I said
to Moses, Joshua 1, 2, 3.
The command to enforce the ban continued under Joshua, standing before the city of Jericho,
ready to watch it fall, he cried.
Now the city will be dedicated to destruction, it and all that is in it, to Yahweh.
Only Rahab will live, she and all who are with her in the house, because she hid the
messengers that we sent, Joshua 617.
In fact, throughout the book of Joshua, the Israelites go from site to site, completely
destroying various cities by the command of Yahweh.
We get several summary statements in the book concerning the defeat that Israel inflicts
upon their adversaries.
So Joshua struck down all the land, the mountain and the nigev and the sheffa and the slopes
and all their kings.
He did not leave anyone who escaped, but he completely destroyed all who breathed.
Just as Yahweh, the God of Israel, had commanded Joshua 1040.
And again.
And all the cities of these kings and all their kings, Joshua captured and struck them down
with the edge of the sword.
He completely destroyed them, just as Moses, the servant of Yahweh, had commanded Joshua
1112.
There is no question from the text that the command of Yahweh was to enforce the ban
upon all the Canaanites, just as we saw in the book of Deuteronomy.
While Yahweh's instructions are clear, the Israelites failed to carry out these orders
in full.
Following the conquest narrative in Joshua 1-12, chapter 13 opens with Joshua as an old
man to whom Yahweh appears.
And Yahweh said to him, You are old and advanced in years, but a great deal of land remains
to be possessed.
Joshua 131.
The command that was given for the nation of Israel to possess the land has not been
fulfilled completely.
Here much of the land is yet to be possessed.
Is this considered to be a good thing in the narrative?
Do we see the author presenting this in a positive light?
Is the idea, oh, good.
In a show of mercy, they must have spared such and such people groups in the land from
destruction.
No.
Instead, this is seen as a failure on the part of the nation of Israel, a theme that
continues into the book of Judges.
In chapter 1, the message was an encouragement to conquer the land.
In chapter 13, the emphasis is on the land not yet conquered.
Dr. Collins comes more to the point.
The book of Joshua claims that Joshua carried out a campaign of wholesale slaughter.
For this, he is not faulted.
On the contrary, the Israelites are blamed for falling short of total slaughter and failing
to drive out all the Canaanites.
Joshua 1313, Judges 1.
This was considered a failure.
Clearly shows that the prior commands were not intended to be taken as hyperbole.
They are instructions to literally eradicate whole cities.
If it were hyperbolic language, then the fact that a great deal of the land had not yet been
subjected to this treatment would pose no issue.
1 Samuel 15, the Amalekites
The final passage that we will evaluate in this section is 1 Samuel 15.
While we will return to this narrative at length later in this documentary, it is an
important passage to overview in the present context.
If you recall from earlier in this documentary, Samuel comes to Saul and commands him to go
and kill the Amalekites because of what they did to the Israelites when they were coming
up out of Egypt.
The extent to which Saul is to completely destroy Haram, the Amalekites reaches.
From man to woman, from child to infant, from bull to lamb, from camel to donkey, 1 Samuel
15, 3b.
This is language of complete, wholesale destruction, echoes that which we have already seen in
the books of Deuteronomy and Joshua.
As before, the calls for the annihilation of Amalek and its people, cattle, etc.
Employs a form of the same word, Haram, we touched on above.
Interestingly, the writer is at pains to point out that while Saul attacks the Amalekites
as instructed, he also warns a group known as the Kenites to flee the area.
The mercy shown to the Kenites is in return for kindness they showed Israel on their way
out of Egypt.
This incident is nowhere mentioned in the stories of the Exodus and Israel's wilderness
wanderings.
So why am I mentioning the Kenites in this context?
It is because they represent yet another example of the totality of the ban.
The Kenites appear to have been associated with the Amalekites to some degree, even living
in the same settlements.
Given the Kenites close proximity to and possible association with the Amalekites, coupled with
the all-encompassing nature of the ban, we might expect the Kenites to be annihilated
along with the Amalekites.
This act of mercy was the great exception to the all-encompassing nature of the ban.
As we will see later in this documentary, this theme of an exception to the total nature
of the ban, often based on the faithfulness of the exempted party, appears in several
places throughout the Old Testament.
If this command of destruction were intended to be hyperbolic, why note that a specific
group of people was spared?
Hyperbole assumes that some people will be shown mercy, pointing out that a specific
group was spared from slaughter is redundant.
The command to save the Kenites from the ban is only noteworthy because it goes against
the all-encompassing nature of the instruction to destroy the Amalekites.
The writer is showing that the requirement to completely destroy meant exactly that.
The complete destruction of everyone and everything.
In the end, Saul carries out his task, but with more exceptions than allowed by Yahweh.
His fault lies not in taking a hyperbolic command literally, but rather in taking the
extent of a literal command as something less.
Saul chooses not to execute the King, and he spares some of the choice animals.
For this, he is not only scolded by the Prophet, but is ultimately rejected by Yahweh as
King of Israel, 1 Samuel 15, 23.
In fact, because Saul fells to carry out the total slaughter of everyone, including
the King, Samuel is forced to take out his own weapon and kill the Amalekite ruler.
The finer points in this narrative make abundantly clear.
The ban required the complete annihilation of all those who had been dedicated to destruction.
Sparing but one individual and a few animals was deemed a failure to carry out its proper
execution.
If this were hyperbolic language, these few exceptions would have been expected.
Looking back on these several passages in Deuteronomy, Joshua, and 1 Samuel, we could
see a pattern of themes and consistencies that run throughout.
First, the use of the noun harem, ban, and the verb haram, to destroy, repeatedly appear
in these texts.
In each case, they are part of a divine mandate to devote a particular city or people group
to Yahweh for destruction.
Second, whatever the historical reality, the narratives call for the complete execution
of the ban.
Once something is dedicated to Yahweh, it is completely dedicated.
As we have seen in 1 Samuel 15 and as we will see greater in detail, the narrative hinges
upon the total execution of the ban in the example of 1 Samuel 15 because Saul spared
even a small remnant of the Amalekites.
His task was considered a failure.
Apologetic Defenses of Divine Violence and Genocide
What do Christians and apologists say about these types of divine commands that call for
violence and genocide in the Old Testament?
What defenses or justifications are put forward to get God off the hook, as it were?
For the most part, I tend to read and hear two general types of arguments to explain
or defend the biblical texts.
1. God was justified in his actions and 2. These passages are hyperbolic.
We will examine both of these positions in this section, evaluating their strengths and
weaknesses along with the ramifications that accompany adherence to these interpretations
of the text.
The most frequent response I see from those seeking to defend the violent actions of Yahweh
in the Old Testament is to argue that God was completely justified in bringing judgment
upon the victims.
Yes, Yahweh acted with great violence either directly or indirectly, but this was not arbitrary
or malicious.
Rather, it was an enactment of perfect divine justice against rebellious and incredibly
wicked groups of people.
There are several very common examples of the causes and effects of such divine retribution
that adherents will point to, including, for example, the worldwide flood of Genesis 6-9.
He wiped out every living thing which was upon the ground, from man to beast to creeping
thing and to the birds of heaven, and they were wiped out from the earth, and only Noah
and those with him in the ark remained, Genesis 7-23.
The extermination of all but eight humans and two of each species of animal will rightly
draw strong criticism from many readers of the story.
Of course, the text does not lead us to conclude that Yahweh was in any way unjustified in bringing
about this devastating deluge.
And Yahweh saw that great was the wickedness of humanity in the earth, and every intent
of the thoughts of his heart are only evil continually, Genesis 6-5.
The passage itself explicitly validates the violent actions of the deity.
This explanation, that the entire world was completely corrupt and sinful, might not hold
up under scrutiny for a more fundamentalist interpretation of the story.
Part of the infants who were not capable of knowing or doing evil, all told, this is
not the point of the text.
Other biblical narratives do not seem to go to such lengths to justify Yahweh's actions.
Nevertheless, many of these generally imply some rationalizations given for God's commands,
although they rarely meet our modern standards of moral justification for the violence inflicted
upon the victims.
By way of example, let's use the case of the Canaanites in the conquest of Joshua.
We saw before that the book of Joshua describes the conquest of the land of Canaan by the
Israelites at the direction of Yahweh.
What rationale does the Old Testament give for the eradication or dispossession of the
indigenous population of Canaan?
Most commentators would see Yahweh's justification in commanding such violence and the wickedness
and rebellion of the Canaanites.
Let's take a look at a passage from early in the story that lays the groundwork for
the Israelite conquest in Genesis 15.
There are several things to notice in this passage.
If you read through the context, you will see that Abram has been promised descendants,
so many descendants that he will be unable to count them.
Now Abram is pretty old, as is Sarah, his wife.
How will Abram know that all this will actually come to pass?
Yahweh has him perform a ritual by which they might ratify this agreement or covenant, sworn
between two parties.
Before the ritual is performed, Yahweh describes what is going to happen to Abram and his descendants
in the future.
They are going to serve another nation for a lengthy period of time and eventually return
to the land promised by Yahweh to Abram, where he has presently settled.
But why such a lengthy period of time?
Why not give him the land then and there?
Many Abram could establish his family and begin to put down roots, which would ultimately
result in the vast number of descendants that Yahweh had promised.
However, this was not God's plan.
Yahweh had determined that the inhabitants of the land had not yet become wicked enough
to bring about his wrath.
Dr. Golden Gay says it this way.
Yahweh cannot simply throw out the current inhabitants of the country in favor of Abraham's
offspring whom he wishes to favor, even for the sake of his own purpose for the world
as a whole.
Amorites must and will have lots of time to turn from their waywardness before Yahweh
will be able to say, that's it.
Aites, a name that often simply designates the people that live in the land of Canaan,
would not receive retribution prematurely.
Dr. Winham agrees.
Here the Amorites stand for all the inhabitants of Canaan.
Divine judgment in the form of Israel's conquest must wait until they are sufficiently wicked
to deserve this fate.
Similarly, Dr. Hamilton summarizes.
Only when the iniquity of the Amorites, like the pre-Israelite inhabitants of Palestine,
has run its full measure will the Israelites enter Palestine to claim it and possess it.
Only when the iniquity of the Amorites has reached the point of no return will they forfeit
the land.
Viewed in more generous way, Abraham would receive the land of Canaan, but Yahweh would
be patient with its current inhabitants, giving them every opportunity, even at the expense
of its chosen people, to come to their senses and repent.
However, it may also be the case that the delay in judgment had nothing to do with potential
mercy that might be extended to the inhabitants of the land.
Yahweh was simply waiting until there was justification for their destruction.
This justification for the conquest extends in the text to passages like Deuteronomy 9,
4 through 5.
Moses tells the people as they are preparing to enter the land of Canaan, following this
long time gap that had been predicted in Genesis 15 and 16, they are going to dispossess
and destroy its inhabitants.
Do not say in your heart, when Yahweh your God drives them out away from you.
Yahweh brought me in to possess this land because of my righteousness, but it is because
of the wickedness of these nations that Yahweh is about to drive them out away from you.
It is not because of your righteousness and the uprightness of your heart that you are
about to come to possess their land, because of the wickedness of these nations.
Yahweh your God is about to drive them out away from you, and so that he might fulfill
the word that Yahweh swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, Deuteronomy 9,
4 to 5.
The text is clear, you are not getting this land from its current inhabitants because you
were somehow deserving of it, having been so righteous and pure of heart, no.
He was instead the exceptional wickedness of the inhabitants that was about to result
in their expulsion and extermination by Yahweh.
Dr. Lundbaum explains.
Here begins Deuteronomy's great teaching about the basis on which the conquest will rest.
Success will come first of all because the inhabitants of Canaan are full up with wickedness.
Abraham was told, when Yahweh made up a covenant with him, that his descendants would not return
to Canaan for four generations, because the iniquity of the Amorites was not yet complete.
Genesis 15, 16.
Several other passages go on to bolster this view of justification for Yahweh's actions
in the conquest that the reader may find of interest for further investigation.
For example, Leviticus 18, 24 through 28 and Amos 2, 9.
But what we have covered to this point will suffice.
It is to this defense that Christians and Apologists will often go first.
Dr. Hector Avalos writes.
If we consider more carefully the outright defense of Hebrew violence, we also see that
it can be subdivided into at least two categories.
One type of defense relies on frankly theological explanations, as does Gleason Archer.
Just as the wise surgeon removes dangerous cancer from the patient's body by use of
the scalpel, so God employed the Israelites to remove such dangerous malignancies from
human society.
Dr. John Collins agrees.
In Genesis 15, 16, God promises the land to Abraham but not immediately, for the iniquity
of the Amorites is not yet complete.
This single verse is cited to show that the eventual expulsion of the Canaanites was justified
by their sinfulness.
But what of this justification defense?
What are the central problems with adopting this position?
Collins' statement above suggests perhaps the most problematic aspect to the argument.
Genesis 15, 16 is but a single verse, and there is little to no support for such claims
regarding Canaanite culture and society.
For example, as Dr. Joshua Bowen writes in chapter 3 of volume 1 of the atheist handbook
to the Old Testament, the claims of widespread child sacrifice cannot be substantiated by
the evidence outside of the biblical text.
To condemn the Canaanites and justify the actions of Yahweh, one must simply take the
text of the Old Testament at face value, sometimes to the exclusion of all other sources.
Of course, this is an incredibly problematic position to hold.
While we could certainly focus on the historical problems with these parts of the Hebrew Bible,
I would instead prefer to address this position from a slightly different angle.
In the rest of this section, we will look at some of the justifications for divine violence
and genocide that apologists use.
Directing them instead towards atrocities committed by other ancient Near Eastern rulers
is specifically Syrian kings.
When examining these ancient Near Eastern sources, we will be asking ourselves whether
the arguments in these texts should be considered reasonable and convincing justifications for
sanctioning unchecked state-sponsored violence.
In other words, if the Assyrian kings are depicted as carrying out holy war against
foreign nations at the command of their deity because of the rebelliousness of these foreign
people groups, would we accept this as a justification for such violence?
Let's begin with a brief description of how the Assyrian rulers viewed their role when
it came to military conquest.
Central to this discussion is taking careful note of the distinction between the Assyrian
state, Assyria proper, and the countries that lie outside of that primary land of Assyria.
Dr. Postgate labeled these regions as the land of Assur and the yoke of Assur.
Essentially, the main part of Assyria, the core, was to be expanded under the leadership
of the king, who was appointed and mandated by the god, Assur.
Dr. Postgate says it in this way.
The formal pronouncements of the Assyrian kings distinguish between territory directly
administered and incorporated within the land of Assur, and areas acknowledging Assyrian
domination but retaining some form of autonomy.
This idea of territorial expansion commanded by the deity is described by Dr. Livorani.
So the king acts as a proxy for the deity, or by divine mandate, and this mandate is
conveyed effectively in the following words from the same middle Assyrian coronation ritual.
By your just scepter, extend your land, and Assur will grant you authority and obedience,
justice and peace.
Thus, military conquest is undertaken on behalf of, and by command of, the god.
And how do we see this mandate being carried out through violence?
It is possible to observe that universal empire is essentially achieved by military means.
A victorious war, or at least the threat of war, such that it deters any resistance and
results in the spontaneous, or more accurately the forced, submission of opponents.
Accordingly, the pursuit of war as an instrument through which to realize the divine will is
not merely legitimate, but praiseworthy.
This divine mandate resulted in the subjugation of countries and people groups in the periphery.
Including those nations to the west of Assyria, Postgate notes that the Assyrian rulers would
generally not interfere directly in the inner workings and governmental structures of subordinate
nations.
Nevertheless, they would regularly enforce a type of vassal treaty on them, in which
the vassal rulers would swear oaths to the Assyrian king before the gods.
To break such an oath was no small matter.
Postgate writes,
Such agreements were reinforced by oaths and solemnized by religious sanctions, especially
being witnessed by Assur, the Assyrian god and the local gods.
To have broken such an agreement, then constituted gross sin against Assur, and was seen as justification
for punitive action on the part of the Assyrian ruler.
Did you catch that?
When the Assyrian state was strong enough, the king would follow the divine mandate to
military expand into foreign regions, including to the west, in order to subjugate neighboring
states in those areas, forcing them to swear oaths to the loyalty and vassalage to Assyria.
Should they break these oaths?
This was considered a sin against the Assyrian god, and justified the use of violence for
the sake of correction.
Perhaps the reason for regarding a rebellious vassal as sinful or worthy of violent retribution
is not simply that they are foreigners or the other, rather they had sinned by breaking
the oath and in as much rebelling against Assur, Dr. Crouch argues.
Rather, the enemy's characterization as wicked is tied to the enemy's own acts.
In addition to the transgression of breaking a loyalty oath, Assyrian texts speak of foreigners
plotting outright attacks against the state of Assyria, Dr. Livorani writes.
There is a particular emphasis on two motifs that feature with increasing frequency, the
coalition of the many enemies against Assyria alone, and the ingratitude of the enemies who
do not appreciate the benefits of central government and who are quite good with evil.
By way of example, let's take a look at a well-known literary text, the T'Khulti N'Nurta
epic.
T'Khulti N'Nurta I, an Assyrian king of the 13th century BCE, fights against the
Kassite king, Kastiliash IV, who had rebelled against the oath that he swore before the
gods.
The gods became angry at the king of the Kassites' betrayal of the emblem of Shamash,
against the transgressor of the oath, Kastiliash.
Later in a fragmentary section, we see numerous charges of wrongdoing on the part of the Kassite
king.
Falsehood, crime, repression, wrongdoing, the weighty, the divine oath, and went back
on what he swore.
The gods were watching his furtive deed, though he was their follower.
The king of the Kassites made light of what he swore.
He committed a crime, an act of malice.
T'Khulti N'Nurta I specifically contrast himself with Kastiliash IV.
T'Khulti N'Nurta I praised to the gods Shamash.
Oh Shamash, Lord, I respected your oath.
I feared your greatness.
He who does not transgress before you, but I observed your ordinance.
In fact, the text portrays the rebellious king Kastiliash IV listing his own sins.
So Kastiliash deliberated with himself.
I did not listen to what the Assyrian.
T'Khulti N'Nurta but said, I made light of the messenger.
I did not conciliate him.
I did not accept his favorable intention before.
Now I understand how grievous the crimes of my land are become, how numerous its sins.
And even more directly, many are my wrongdoings before Shamash.
Great are my misdeeds.
Who is the god that will spare my people from catastrophe?
The Assyrian is ever heedful of all the gods.
Another example of this type of text is cited by Dr. Livorani in a Psalm to Asher for T'Khulti
N'Nurta I.
The Psalm depicts the four nations around Assyria as not only in rebellion, but also
as ungrateful to Asher in spite of all that he had done for them.
The lands of one accord have surrounded your city, assure with a noose of evil.
All of them have come to hate the shepherd whom you named, who administers your peoples
all regions of the earth, for which you had produced benevolent assistance, held you in
contempt.
And though you extended your protection to them, they rebuffed you and your land.
The king for whom you held good will made sure to disobey you.
And even those whom you treated well unsheathed their weapons against you.
After during the reign of Tiglath Pileser III, mid to late 8th century BCE, a royal inscription
concerning military engagement with the people of the land of Eluba states that they
planned sinful deeds in their hearts and planned evil.
From this small sampling of text, we see that the Assyrian king and his people are described
as the fearing, observant, reverent worshipers of the god.
In contrast, the foreign people groups find themselves under severe attack by the Assyrian
army because of their own actions and behaviors.
They had disobeyed the gods, ignored their sacred oaths, planned evil in their hearts
and acted sinfully in rebellion.
This provided clear justification, even responsibility on part of the Assyrian king to march his army
against these wicked rebels to right the wrongs that they had so irreverently committed.
Of course, no historian today would treat the depictions of Assyrian enemies in these
texts at face value.
To read the internal monologue of the Kassite king Kastiliash IV, admitting his errant behavior
and then to conclude that Tukulti Niner to the first was therefore perfectly in the right
for waging war against him, well, that would be foolish.
These texts were written from a specific vantage point, with the particular purpose in mind
to provide a justification for Assyria's military conquest and the expansion of the Assyrian state.
We cannot simply reconstruct history from these texts and conclude that the Kassites or the
people of Aluba were actually wicked and sinful people deserving of such divine judgment.
However, this is often how people, specifically Christian apologists, come to the Old Testament.
When we read passages about the wickedness of the Canaanites or the sins of the Amorites,
we are tempted to simply take the text at face value.
The Canaanites must have been evil because that is what text says, but we absolutely
cannot approach these passages in this way, just as we cannot merely base our reconstruction
of history on the ideologically or theologically motivated writings of the Assyrians.
We cannot take the writers of the Hebrew Bible at their word when they describe the actions
of their enemies and rivals.
This is especially true when the purported events occurred centuries earlier than the
time of the writings, as Collins writes.
Biblical theologians have usually assumed the validity of the biblical viewpoint.
Often the conquest is said to be justified by the decadence of the Canaanites, a judgment
for which there is little objective evidence.
It's all hyperbolic.
I have learned to keep hammers away from my four-year-old.
When he has a hammer in his hand, everything becomes a nail.
In my experience with debates about the Bible, this is also the case with the concept of
hyperbole in the hands of many fundamentalists and online Christian apologists.
Once they get a hold of it, every incident of objectionable violence in the Old Testament
becomes hyperbole, while there is clearly hyperbolic language in the Hebrew Bible as
throughout most of the ancient Near Eastern literature, placing every description of violence
and genocide into the same category or expecting hyperbole to do away with the problems that
such passages create is both simplistic and naive.
In this section we will look at several passages that from a literary standpoint hinge on the
absolute nature of the command by Yahweh, the children of Israel to destroy all living
things.
The point is here not to argue against the existence of hyperbole in the Old Testament
passages, but rather that there are many narratives that rise and fall on the non-hyperbolic
intent of the story.
Perhaps the most off-sided publication in apologetics discussions of the Hebrew Bible
is Paul Copan's book Is God a Moral Monster, making sense of the Old Testament God.
Relying on the work of scholars like Lawson Younger, Copan, and others attempt to downplay
the severity of Yahweh's command of violence and genocide by noting that a type of ancient
Near Eastern war rhetoric was likely employed to greater or lesser degrees.
In passages like the Conquest Narrative of Joshua, for example, Copan writes,
Some might accuse Joshua of being misleading or of getting it wrong, not at all.
He was speaking the language that everyone in his day would have understood.
Rather than trying to deceive, Joshua was just saying he had fairly well trounced the
enemy.
The basic idea behind this apologetic defense is to argue that when the Old Testament says
they utterly destroyed the Canaanites, it didn't actually mean that.
Rather this was just a way that ancient Near Eastern writers of this textual genre spoke
about the Conquest.
Unsurprisingly, there are obvious similarities between many of the genres found in the Hebrew
Bible and in the ancient Near East, including different accounts of violence and conquest.
Dozman writes,
Joshua 912 is based on the Assyrian royal conquest accounts.
The comparison clarifies a range of similarities in literary structure and motifs and significant
differences that provide insight into the perspective of the author of Joshua.
It illustrates that the author of Josh 9-12 has chosen to describe the execution of the
kings and the destruction of the royal cities in the Promised Land with the same genre of
literature that monarchs use to demonstrate their royal power and their divine right to
conquer other nations.
In other words, what we see in Joshua 9-12 is the author utilizing a similar method of
writing to what was used by the Assyrians.
But what is the significance of this observation in this particular context?
Apologists will frequently argue that these calls for violence and genocide were just
the way they wrote in the ancient Near East.
If one looks at the historical reality behind similar accounts, you can see that the number
of people said to have been killed or destroyed does not match what actually took place.
This could explain why in certain passages, X group is said to be completely wiped out.
But the same group shows up again later in the text.
Instead of being a contradiction or an error on the part of the biblical writer, this is
argued instead to be a result of misunderstanding hyperbolic language.
Copan writes,
Just as we might say that a sports team blew their opponents away or slaughtered or annihilated
them, the author, editor, likewise followed the rhetoric of his day.
Instead of delving into the intricacies of the usage of hyperbolic language, I would
like to come at this argument from a slightly different angle, assuming that the biblical
authors are utilizing ancient Near Eastern war rhetoric and this use of hyperbolic language
somehow creates a justification for the violent and genocidal descriptions in the Old Testament.
Then this should also be true when other ancient Near Eastern texts do the same thing.
What's good for the goose is good for the gander.
Let's examine some of these ancient Near Eastern texts that Apologists cite to show
similarities in war rhetoric and violent hyperbolic language in the Old Testament.
Devin cites several examples of ancient Near Eastern war rhetoric, including inscriptions
of Teutmos III, Mercyle II, Ramesses II, Mernetha, Mesha, and Senecharib.
Each is cited as evidence that this type of language was common stock across the ancient
Near East and that their claims of total destruction did not necessarily reflect reality.
Again, the question we should pose in response is, does this alleviate the problem of divine
commands of violence and genocide?
To demonstrate that it does not, let's look at one of these examples, the inscriptions
of the Assyrian king Senecharib.
To see if the same arguments would hold in defending the actions of this king of the Neo-Assyrian
Empire.
The example of Senecharib given by Copan, drawing from the work of Lawson Younger, comes
from what is known as the Chicago Taylor Prism, which contains
A text describing eight of Senecharib's military campaigns and the construction of a new armory.
The inscription opens as follows.
Senecharib, great king, strong king, king of the world, king of Assyria, king of the four
quarters of the world, capable shepherd, favorite of the great gods, guardian of truth who loves
justice, renders assistance, goes to the aid of the weak, and strives after good deeds.
Great man, Viral warrior, foremost of all rulers, the bridle that controls the insubmissive,
and the one who strikes enemies with lightning.
The king is described not only as powerful and in control, but also as a benevolent
shepherd who ensures that truth and justice abound, holding back oppression from the weak.
He is a good, just, and has been appointed by the gods.
Senecharib is by every measure the good guy in the story.
Even when Senecharib embarks on campaigns, in fact, especially when he embarks on campaigns,
he is bringing order to chaos, establishing justice and the will of the gods after attacking
and subduing troublesome Babylonian to the south.
For more information on this, see Volume 1, Dr. Joshua Bowen's amazing series.
The text goes on to explain.
I put to the sword the population of the city Hirimu, a dangerous enemy, and I did not spare
a single one.
I hung their corpses on poles and placed them around the city.
I reorganized that district and imposed for eternity one ox, ten sheep, ten homers of
wine, and twenty homers of dates, as his first fruit's offerings to the gods of Assyria,
my lords.
There is little doubt that this language of complete annihilation.
I did not spare a single one.
Not being understood to reflect reality on the ground, Tyrion King did not actually kill
every individual in the city since he is also then reorganizing the district and imposing
new standard regulations for temple service.
But does this make Senecharib's campaign more ethically palatable?
No Christian apologist would come to the defense of Senecharib and the violence that he exhibits
and executes upon his enemies, even if someone were to point out that in these inscriptions
the king is described as perfect, just, and having been called to defend the poor and weak,
this would have little effect on changing our perspective.
When the Assyrian enemies are identified as rebellious and guilty, we would consider this
in context.
Of course the Neo-Assyrian king is going to present the enemy as deserving of, even requiring,
judgment through violence.
We tend to see these things as propaganda and are right to require additional evidence
to substantiate the claims made by the writer concerning the wickedness or guilt of his enemies.
The fact that the language is hyperbolic and that Senecharib didn't actually wipe out every
single person in the city doesn't make his violent attack any less horrific.
Why not subject the biblical text to the same standard if the Egyptian, Hittite, Assyrian,
and Babylonian texts are understood to be doing something like justifying the violent
actions taken against foreign enemies?
Why is this not also considered when reading the stories in the Hebrew Bible?
When the Canaanites, Amorites, and Amalekites are described as irredeemably wicked, rejecting
Yahweh's mercy and bringing down his violent judgment upon themselves, why should we simply
trust the text?
Why take it at face value?
By the same token, if we cannot wave away the horrific violence of a Neo-Assyrian ruler
with claims of hyperbole, then why should we do so for Yahweh?
If the answer invokes concepts of inspiration and or inerrancy of the text, then this is
a theological issue requiring defense by other methods.
We cannot start with this conclusion and special plead our way backwards into such justifications.
While there is little doubt that rhetoric and hyperbole are employed in the Old Testament
conquest narratives, it is not always as simple as excusing their depictions of violence and
genocide as benign as exaggerations.
There are certain stories in which the narrative itself hangs on the idea that everyone or
everything fell under judgment was dedicated to Yahweh and ultimately executed.
Meaning these narratives as mere hyperbole and arguing that their descriptions of annihilation
must not have included everyone or everything, renders them as inconsistent and incoherent.
In view of this, I would like to briefly examine three case studies, Rahab and Achan from the
story of the city of Jericho, the Gibyanites under Joshua's conquest, and the slaughter
of the Amalekites under King Saul.
In each instance, both the purpose and literary structure appear to depend heavily on the
aspect of complete destruction in the Divine Commands and cannot be simply chalked up to
hyperbolic language.
Rahab and Achan
The biblical story of the destruction of Jericho is well known for the city walls that came
a tumbling down, but there is more to the narrative than just the climax.
The appearance of two characters in the story demonstrate the all-encompassing aspect of
Jericho's dedication to Yahweh for destruction.
The first is Rahab, Joshua 2 and 6, 17 through 23.
A prostitute that lived in Jericho and hid two Israelite spies who had come to scout
the city as a character, Rahab is set up to be the lone exception to the total destruction
that was decreed for the city of Jericho.
She and her family are the only ones who are spared annihilation, specifically because
she aligned herself with the Israelites, Joshua 2, 14 through 21.
In other words, for her faithfulness, she and her family were the only ones spared Jericho's
destruction.
Juxtaposed to faithful Rahab in the narrative is the man Achan, an Israelite soldier.
Krianga writes, a Canaanite prostitute named Rahab, the quintessential other, recalls Israel's
miraculous past and uses that knowledge to win her and her family a place in Israel.
The quintessential Israelite, Achan of Judah on the other hand, disregards Joshua's instructions
to destroy all property belonging to the Jericho knights.
Notice how the narrative contrasts these two characters, but Rahab the prostitute and the
house of her father, and all that she had Joshua left alive, and she has lived in the
midst of Israel until this day, because she hid the messengers that Joshua sent out to
spy out Jericho, and Joshua swore at that time, cursed be the man before Yahweh who
rises up and builds this city Jericho.
With his firstborn, he will found it, and with his youngest, he will set up its gates.
And Yahweh was with Joshua, and his fame was throughout all the land.
But the children of Israel were unfaithful in the ban, and Achan, the son of Kami, the
son of Zabdi, the son of Zarah, from the tribe of Judah, took from the devoted objects,
so that the anger of Yahweh burned against the children of Israel, Joshua 625-71.
The comparison in the narrative between Rahab and Achan hinges upon the totality of the ban.
Let's assume for a moment that these commands were simply intended to be read as hyperbolic
language.
The audience understood that utterly destroyed just meant kill a lot of them, and don't take
anything from the devoted objects.
Meant just leave most of it.
What would this do to the story?
Well, Rahab would not be an outlier, since the reader would know that Rahab and her family
would not have been the only ones spared, as the text is saying only many people were
killed.
Similarly, if the Israelites were not commanded to refrain from all the dedicated objects,
then what was Achan's sin?
I mean, couldn't he simply turn to Yahweh and say,
Yeah, but you didn't mean everything, right?
That was just hyperbole.
In other words, the storyline hangs on everyone being killed except Rahab, and everything
in Jericho being left to Yahweh except the things Achan took.
The treaty with the Gibbynites.
Following the defeat of Jericho and I, word gets around to the rest of the Canaanites
that an unstoppable force is on its way.
But when the inhabitants of Gibbyn heard that which Joshua had done to Jericho and I,
they planned a trick, and they went and took provisions and took old sacks on their donkeys
and old wineskins, torn and mended, old and patched sandals on their feet and with old
clothing upon them, and all the bread of their provisions was dry and crumbled.
And they went to Joshua to the camp at Gilgal and said to him and to the men of Israel,
from afar we have come and now make a treaty with us.
Joshua 9 3 E to 6.
The Gibbynites have learned of the Israelites most recent battles at Jericho and I, respond
quite differently than the other Canaanites city-states, and with a mind to self-preservation,
instead of preparing for war they decide to approach Joshua and the people, pretending
to be foreigners from a distant land.
But why?
If you remember the rules of engagement from Deuteronomy 20, those cities that lie outside
of Canaan are to be offered the chance to become vassals to Israel.
This is the type of treaty that is Gibbyn is seeking here, to see Joshua 9 11.
Joshua and the Israelites questioned the veracity of the Gibbynites' story, but finally determined
that they are indeed from a distant country and ratified a vassal treaty with them.
Only later do they realize that the Gibbynites are actually from Canaan and should be under
the ban.
However, as they have made an oath, it cannot be reversed and must otherwise be honored.
As the Gibbynites tricked the Israelites and were spared the effects of the ban, Rasell
agrees.
According to the Torah, the story should not have happened.
The Torah rules that a covenant between the Israelites and the people of Canaan is not
possible.
What would happen to this story?
If we assume that the language is merely hyperbolic, would it have the same effect upon the reader?
The assumption of the narrative is that everyone in Canaan is subject to the ban, bound for
utter destruction.
Most rulers rally their troops to fight, but the Gibbynites express a type of faithfulness
to Yahweh.
They acknowledge his superiority and seek a way to escape his wrath.
However, if this language of total destruction was nothing more than hyperbole, then there
would be no exception that everyone was to be killed, and the story of the Gibbynites
trying to weasel their way out would make little sense.
The reason that they need to perform such a ruse is specifically because they are inhabitants
of Canaan and are marked for total annihilation.
Dr. Hess writes,
The literary context parallels that of Rahab.
Just as Rahab and her family escaped destruction through negotiations with representatives
of Israel, so the Gibbynites do the same thing.
The Gibbynites Treaty precedes the account of the war with the leaders of the surrounding
towns in southern Canaan, gem to ten.
In both cases, this deliverance occurs after the confession of God's deeds of salvation
on behalf of Israel.
The theological context parallels the account of Akhen.
The Amalekites in 1 Samuel 15.
We have seen this passage come up time and again in this series, but it is here that
we will address the apologetic argument of hyperbole in the story.
As you may recall, in 1 Samuel 15, Saul is commanded by Yahweh to go and to kill the
Amalekites, including women, children, infants, and cattle.
This story is understandably one that comes up repeatedly in discussions of the morality
of the God of the Old Testament.
It is becoming quite fashionable more recently for an online apologist to respond with.
That was just hyperbole, however the first question we need to ask ourselves is, what
specifically in this story is hyperbolic?
For example, we might assume that Yahweh's words to Saul were hyperbolic, thus when Yahweh
said to Saul, okay Saul, kill everyone.
Saul would have understood that this was just ancient Near Eastern war rhetoric.
Saul would have heard.
Saul, kill a lot of them, but obviously don't kill everyone, I'm just being hyperbolic.
Does this work in the context of the narrative?
Obviously not.
Upon returning from the battle, when confronted by Samuel for the fact that the Amalekite
King and numbers of the choice animals were left alive, Saul could easily have said,
whoa Samuel, Yahweh was just being hyperbolic.
We both know he didn't mean and kill everyone.
In other words, if we are going with the narrative itself, we need clarity about specifically
what in the story is to be construed as hyperbolic.
A general call of hyperbole will not suffice.
As we saw with our two prior cases in these studies, this appeal to hyperbole completely
undermines the entire premise of the story.
The narrative simply does not allow for hyperbole.
The internal consistency of the story requires that Saul kill everyone.
The fact that he spared even one was caused to consider the mission a fail.
It was an act of disobedience.
A pilling as apologists do, to later appearances of the Amalekites in 1 and 2 Samuel, does not
settle the issue.
Besides, the reemergence of the Amalekites further along in the text is an editorial
issue, not a literary one.
All degrees.
The rights and wrongs in this narrative turn on the issue of sparing.
The instruction to Saul includes the command not to spare the Amalekites, verse 3, but
the report of the campaign concludes with King and people sparing King Agag, and the
best of the animals, suitable for sacrifice, unwilling to make them harem, v. 9.
More directly, Samura writes.
The phrase, Saul and the people spared, means that they did not utterly destroy.
This was in direct disobedience to the divine command in v. 3.
The purpose of this war was not to gain spoil, but to fulfill God's ancient command.
The ban was not something to be applied lightly as one pleased.
Here, Saul showed no respect and regard for the awesome institution of the ban for partial
fulfillment is not a possibility in the logic of ban.
In short, when we consider the argument of hyperbole or war rhetoric, we need to keep
a few things in mind.
First, there are almost certainly actual instances of hyperbolic language used in the biblical
texts, to greater or lesser degrees.
The issue is often not whether this type of language is used, but if such language mitigates
or alleviates the moral or ethical problems with divine commands of violence in the texts.
When we view other ancient Near Eastern texts that contain similar hyperbolic reports of
violence, we do not respond with mere hand waves at the issues engendered within descriptions
of brutally violent behavior.
Neither should we do this with Old Testament.
Secondly, there are clearly several cases in which the narrative itself hinges upon the
absolute or total nature of the ban.
We briefly examined the Jericho narrative and how two of the main characters, Rahab
and Achan, are juxtaposed as opposites.
A coherent reading of the story requires the total implementation of the ban, since both
figures represent lone exceptions on either side in the story.
The same held true for the story of the Gibeonites in Joshua 9 and the Amalekites in 1 Samuel
15.
In both of these cases, the narratives require that the ban be understood as total and complete,
providing for exceptions would have no meaning otherwise.
In conclusion to this section, therefore we have seen that neither defense of violence
in the Old Testament that so commonly appears in apologetic discourse stands up terribly
well under closer inspection.
Just to justify Yahweh's violent retribution for the sinfulness of his victims, fail in
the face of relevant ancient Near Eastern comparative literature.
Assuming the text of the Hebrew Bible to represent historical reality, particularly when it comes
to the sinful behavior of the victims of violence, such as Canaanite, Amorite, and Amalekites,
requires a great deal of special pleading in light of similar texts and justifications
that appear in the wider ancient Near Eastern texts.
Furthermore, appealing to hyperbole as a convention of ancient Near Eastern war rhetoric does
not resolve all moral or ethical problems for the Apologists.
The extent of force of divinely commanded violence may be mitigated as a result, but
it certainly does not do away with everything that is objectionable in these stories.
In addition, there are clearly many passages in which the narrative coherence depends heavily
on the absence of such hyperbole, apocalyptic violence in the New Testament.
But that is the Old Testament, Josh.
We are Christians and we follow the teachings of the New Testament while not nearly as common.
This is an apologetic argument that does surface from time to time.
Although my area of expertise, and this is Joshua Bowen particularly speaking, is certainly
not in the New Testament.
I think it would be a good idea to briefly examine this type of objection.
This will involve summarizing the phenomenon known as apocalypticism.
Although Dr. Bowen will be dedicating a significant portion in his Volume 3 and a chapter on the
topic of apocalypticism, he thinks it is important to address the effect that apocalyptic thinking
has had on later parts of the Hebrew Bible and how it manifested itself in some of the
New Testament.
The reality is, contrary to the opinions of many, that the New Testament endorses a great
deal of divine violence.
What is apocalypticism?
The word apocalyptic comes from a Greek verb meaning to reveal, disclose.
The basic idea behind apocalyptic texts is that they pull back the curtain of reality,
revealing the supernatural world that lies behind, allowing the reader to understand what
is going on behind the scenes in the divine realm.
In so doing, the reader is encouraged to hold fast to their faith as the troubles and torments
of the present time are not to last indefinitely and are actually part of a larger, divinely
sanctioned and controlled plan.
Any persecution that besets true believers will eventually come to an end when all wrongs
will be righted.
Dr. Cook explains.
The apocalyptic worlds of the Bible peer beyond mundane political and social realities, revealing
a new world coming.
Profoundly realistic about humanity's limitations and shortcomings, the literature recognizes
that this better world, while a fundamental human longing, will never come as a human
achievement.
It comes.
Only with the advent of God's sovereign rule on Earth.
Apocalyptic texts that exhibit several characteristic features, Collins writes.
Specifically, an apocalypse is defined as a genre of revelatory literature with a narrative
framework in which a revelation is mediated by an otherworldly being to a human recipient,
disclosing a transcendent reality which is both temporal insofar as it envisages eschatological
salvation and spatial insofar as it involves another supernatural world.
Again, our goal here is not to go into a great deal of detail concerning the specifics of
apocalypticism, but only to present enough of an overview to understand its appearance
in the New Testament and how it relates to divine violence.
What is the connection between apocalypticism and the writings in the New Testament?
Apocalyptic texts have a fairly specific application.
Basically, when times are difficult for believers, particularly believers that trust that their
God is in control of the affairs of the world, they can begin to wonder if God has forgotten
about them or if something has happened that keeps him at bay.
In these moments, an individual may come forward with divine message revealing that God is
actually at work behind the scenes and there remains only a little time before he comes
and delivers his people.
And what will that deliverance look like?
How will it come about through violence?
For example, in the Book of Daniel, a very early apocalyptic text, we see this played
out in some detail.
The forces of evil had aligned themselves against God's chosen people at the height
of their persecution by the Seleucid ruler Antiochus IV.
The faithful were being tempted to renounce their faith in order to save themselves.
In this time of intense persecution came the Book of Daniel which prophesied that in just
a short while, God would return to earth to exact judgment and justice upon the wicked.
While the violence inherent in this deliverance is not just an overt as what would be described
in later apocalyptic literature, implicit in the text is the kingdom of God coming by
force.
Daniel 2, 44-45, 7, 26-27, 8, 25, and 12, 1-2.
In a seemingly hopeless situation, the idea of ultimate deliverance from oppression often
comes to occupy the minds of those who feel marginalized and vulnerable.
Collins writes,
If the people of Judah usually lacked the power to take vengeance on their enemies, they
could at least fantasize.
And they did.
This idea of deliverance and vengeance did not end during the post-exilic period, but
continued on into the time of the New Testament.
Let's take a look at two of the many passages that positively feature apocalyptic violence
in the Gospels and the Book of Revelation.
In Matthew 25, 31-46, Jesus presents a view of the end times.
When God's kingdom will be established on earth, notice how the passage opens.
But when the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, then he will
sit on the throne of his glory, Matthew 25, 31.
Being as the judge of all mankind, he will separate out all the nations, allowing one
group to enter into eternal bliss, while the other group will not be so fortunate.
Then he will also say to the ones on the left,
Depart from me, cursed ones, to the eternal fire that has been prepared for the devil
and his angels, Matthew 25, 41.
In the end, we have this summary statement.
And these will go away to eternal punishment, but the righteous ones to eternal life, Matthew
25, 46.
Dr. Luz concludes of this passage.
The time of warnings is past.
The final judgment is here.
The world judge has spoken, and nothing more can be done about it.
Jesus promises that in the near future, Matthew 24, 34, the Son of Man would return an exact
vengeance on those who have mistreated the less fortunate.
In the Book of Revelation, an even more overt description of divine violence is set forth.
In chapter 19, we read about Jesus and his future return in glory.
From his mouth goes out a sharp sword, so that he might strike the nations, and he himself
will rule them with an iron rod, Revelation 1915.
We also see.
And the remainder were killed by the sword that went out of the mouth of the one who
sat on the horse, and all the birds were satisfied by their flesh, Revelation 1921.
There is no question that Jesus' return as the rider on the white course will not be
a visitation of peace, but rather a violent bloodshed, Collins writes.
It should be noted that the violence of the Messiah typically has a fantastic character.
He was not expected to prevail by normal military means, but by divine power.
But if the violence of the judgment had a fantastic, miraculous character, it was nonetheless
real.
This is but a sampling of apocalyptic revenge fantasies from the New Testament.
It is clear from these few examples that divine violence is a critical feature in texts that
promote an apocalyptic worldview.
How will the faithful people of God, undergoing such fierce persecution, find their way out?
By the violent divine judgment brought down on their enemies.
Collins makes an observation that will provide us with a good seg.
Collins makes an observation that will provide us with a good segway into the final section.
He notes.
Moreover, while many apocalypses discourage violent actions in the present, during the
time of active persecution, and set little store by human agency, they may nonetheless
sow the seeds of violence.
Violent language has its own potency.
If people are told to expect a heavenly deliverer on a white horse who will annihilate their
enemies, it may be difficult for them to restrain themselves from giving him a helping hand.
If the God of both the Old and New Testaments commands violence and ultimately solves problems
through violence, what effect does this have on those that hold the Bible to be their foundational
sacred scripture?
And one small note.
In the New Testament's apocalypticism of violence, you have eternal punishment as that that falls
upon the wicked.
Whereas in the Old Testament, while people think that's more violent, Dr. Hector Avalos
has said it seems that the New Testament morality of that God is even worse, especially
if you grant the idea of eternal torment.
The Hebrew scriptures misses this altogether.
Conclusion Old Testament violence and today.
Violence never solves anything.
The writers of the Old Testament certainly were not convinced that this is true.
The divine commands of violence and genocide have caused not a few problems for Christians
throughout the ages.
A challenge taken up today by many apologists, in order to deal with the violent actions
commanded by Yahweh, two primary rationalizations have been developed.
One, God was completely justified due to the victim's extreme wickedness.
And or two, the language of violence was often simply hyperbolic.
We examine both of these arguments in defense of divine violence, showing them to be ultimately
unsatisfying.
We began by examining the ban as it appears in the pages of the Old Testament.
The command to dedicate people and property to Yahweh, which often resulted in their destruction
by separating or devoting these things to the deity.
It meant that they were unable to be utilized by anyone else.
In cultic contexts, this could result in either their use by cultic officials or their destruction.
In contexts of war, however, this generally meant that the devoted things were destroyed
as we saw many cities, particularly those within the land of Canaan, were devoted to
the ban.
And the narrative speaks of their total destruction.
There were several passages that contained divine commands of violence and destruction.
The first that we encountered was Deuteronomy 7, which called for the complete annihilation
of the people groups that resided in the land of Canaan in order to keep the Israelites
from falling into the sin of worshiping other gods.
They were to exterminate the indigenous population.
The Israelites were warned that if these foreigners were allowed to remain in the land, they would
entice them to intermarry and become a snare to the people.
Purity of the children of Israel is of the foremost concern.
Therefore, the native Canaanite population had to be destroyed.
In Deuteronomy 20, we saw the specific separate rules of engagement for fighting battles both
inside and outside the land of Canaan.
For those cities that lay outside of Canaan, the Israelites were obligated to make an offer
of peace, which amounted to a vassal treaty.
Should the city accept, they would be subject to Corvay labor.
If they refused, the city was to be emasculated and the women, children, and cattle would
become plunder for the children of Israel.
However, when it came to the Canaanite cities, these were subject to the ban and were to
be completely destroyed.
We moved on to examine many of the more well-known divine commands for violence in the book of
Joshua.
As the leader of the Israelites following the death of Moses, Joshua was commanded to
dedicate the Canaanite cities to destruction.
When the Israelites failed to carry out their mission, the text identified this as an egregious
shortcoming that angered Yahweh and for which they are punished.
Finally we see in 1 Samuel 15 that the Israelites under the leadership of Saul were to utterly
wipe out the Amalekites, including the men, women, children, infants, and cattle.
Saul's rather pragmatic decision to leave the king and a few choice animals alive was
likewise considered a failure and an affront to Yahweh's command, which helped to demonstrate
the expectation that the ban was to result in total destruction.
We then looked closely at the two major defenses of divinely sanctioned violence commonly argued
by Christian apologists.
1.
Yahweh was justified in ordering destruction because of the gross immorality of the victims.
2.
Other passages in the Hebrew Bible can be construed as mere war rhetoric, understood
by the reader to be hyperbolic exaggerations.
Several passages were examined to see how the text set the scene to show Yahweh as just
and righteous in the context of his violent actions.
In the flood account, for example, the continual wickedness of humanity was highlighted in the
text as an unavoidable catalyst that triggered Yahweh's righteous indignation.
In the Torah, the inhabitants of Canaan are said to have been given over 400 years to repent
of their wicked behavior.
Indeed, throughout the book of Deuteronomy, we see that the Canaanites were ejected from
the land because of their immoral behavior, which mostly amounted to their service of
gods other than Yahweh.
In each case, the wicked behaviors of the indigenous populations were featured as the
root cause of Yahweh's violent actions.
He was fully justified according to the writers of the Hebrew Bible.
However, it was pointed out that outside the text of the Old Testament, we do not have
objective evidence of such wickedness.
In fact, by examining other ancient Near Eastern texts, we saw that other people groups formulated
the same types of justifications for their violent behaviors.
For example, the Assyrians were well-practiced in portraying the victims of their violence
as wicked, rebellious, and deserving of their deity's wrath.
Their enemies were guilty of breaking solemn oaths that had been sworn to the Assyrian
crown, actions that were worthy of harsh retribution.
Historians do not simply take the Assyrian royal inscriptions at face value, but instead
interpret the textual data in light of its propagandistic nature.
The same, it was argued, should be done with the biblical texts.
But should we chalk up the violent language in the Old Testament passages to be simply
nothing more than war rhetoric and hyperbole?
Should we be interpreting this as we do modern expressions of exaggeration like,
We killed the other team in the baseball game last night.
We began by examining this argument in a slightly unorthodox way, assuming the reality of ancient
Near Eastern war rhetoric, which at times I think is quite likely, does that alleviate
the ethical problem.
To answer the question, we looked at one of the ancient Near Eastern texts that engages
in similar rhetorical strategies, asking ourselves the question,
Would we be okay with this as a justification?
Given the extent of likely violence and destruction exacted by the Assyrians in our example, the
answer is clearly no.
There were several examples in which the language of complete destruction under the ban could
not be dismissed as hyperbolic language within the flow of the narrative itself.
To interpret the language of the ban as hyperbolic or rhetorical in many instances renders the
narrative itself incoherent.
We examine the stories of Rahab and Akin as they related to the city of Jericho, noting
that each was the lone exception to the ban.
Rahab was saved alone along with her family, while Akin was the lone sinner among the Israelites
who saved objects of value from the ban.
Neither story would make sense if the ban against Jericho had been anything less than
absolute.
Similarly, the story of the Gibbonites only makes literary sense if all the Canaanite city
states were subject to destruction.
Finally, in the story of the Amalekites in 1 Samuel 15, Saul is rejected as king, specifically
because the call for destruction was absolute and his failure was the decision to spare
the king.
While this is not my particular area of expertise, Dr. Bowen says, I ventured into the world
of apocalyptic literature and its influence on violent scene in the New Testament, because
some apologist appealed to the New Testament superseding the Old Testament.
This was an appropriate path to briefly follow.
We saw that apocalyptic literature reveals what is going on in the divine realm and gives
the faithful believer hope that God will one day return and bring violence and destruction
with him against their enemies.
We looked at passages in Matthew and Revelation to provide but a sampling of some of the apocalyptic
ideas present in the New Testament and the violence that flows from out of this type of
worldview.
But why bother be laboring the point of divine violence in the Old Testament and the frequent
misuse of these texts by apologists to defend the character of Yahweh?
Unfortunately, given the all-pervasive influence of the Christian Bible, both the Old and New
Testaments on Western civilization, the modern implications formed from this ancient compilation
of text cannot be overstated.
Although many apologists will quick to contrast the Law, an Old Covenant with Grace, and the
New Covenant, in my experience it is theologically unacceptable to simply write off the Old Testament
as irrelevant for Christian morality.
Thus, the constant battle to reconcile the seemingly immoral commands of Yahweh with
the moral perfection he is thought to possess?
What practical modern implications does this have for us today?
In a post-script to Daniel Bloch's recent article on divine violence, he makes an expected
but disturbing assertion.
Whatever his intent, this seems to betray a fundamental starting point from which Bloch
operates, that God's violence is a function of His grace.
We would obviously never accept such rationalizations for other figures and in other contexts.
No counselor would advise a battered wife to consider first the gracious behavior of
her husband before assigning blame to him for condemning his actions.
An appalling response would seek to excuse the abuser for the violent treatment of his
spouse, say for her unfaithful behavior, attempting to justify the abuser's actions by recounting
the money, gifts, and vacations they had provided their wayward spouse is equally heinous.
This type of mentality seems akin to giving the ultimate and unceasing benefit of the
doubt to Yahweh, whose violent and abusive behavior is vigorously excused and defended
time and again through textbook victim blaming.
This type of apologetic can be seen quite clearly when conservative scholars discuss
the story of Rahab in this context.
For example, Dr. Daliere writes,
The Rahab narrative shows us that God will have mercy on all who turn to Him in faith
and that not all who lived in Canaan were subject to the Herum.
Bloch goes even further.
If Israel's policy of Herum involves a comprehensive call for the extermination of the Canaanites,
it also graciously opens the door for exceptions.
What a good guy.
This Yahweh, do you sense the sarcasm?
A common method for training many Christians to justify Yahweh's actions is establishing
a system of what I call fair retribution, particularly by preaching and teaching from
the stories and laws of the Old Testament.
Many Christians have been raised to believe that the violent responses of Yahweh in the
Old Testament were perfectly appropriate and even absolutely necessary given the evil
that was being perpetrated.
But were these violent responses actually appropriate?
If you lived in a house where it was considered appropriate to punch someone in the nose if
they interrupted you in a conversation, you would come to believe that if someone interrupted
someone else, they deserve to be punched in the nose.
But why would they deserve it?
Because you have been raised to believe that it was a just and even necessary response?
This type of circular reasoning has led to the belief that, for example, the Canaanites
were worthy of extermination and expulsion from their land because of the sin of idolatry.
In fact, it was almost ubiquitously the threat of idolatrous influence that brought the stern
demand of Yahweh to exterminate these indigenous people groups.
And yet, when challenged to explain how Yahweh could call for genocide, the Apologists will
often respond to say, they deserved it.
Why did they deserve it?
Because they were worshiping other gods.
Why should that deserve such a violent response?
Because that's what Yahweh prescribed.
In other words, when we break it down, we see this circular and self-reinforcing line
of reasoning.
1.
This is the punishment because it is what Yahweh prescribed.
2.
Because he prescribed it.
This is the punishment you get.
3.
This is the punishment because it is what Yahweh prescribed.
It is this mindset that can lead to the justification of behavior that would be otherwise considered
atrocious in any other context.
Let's take, for example, the story of Samson in Judges 16.
The mighty man filled with the spirit of Yahweh had been defeated through his own pride and
waywardness.
However, blinded by his enemies and on full and humiliating display, he prayed for Yahweh
to give him strength, one last time in order to take out vengeance on the Philistines.
The story of Samson is often framed in the light of contrasting his moral successes
and failures, noting that in the end, he was able to serve Yahweh one final time.
In fact, Hebrews 11, 32-34, Samson is lauded as one of the great heroes of the faith.
But what did Samson actually do?
In Judges 16, 29-30, we read,
Having been placed before this large group of Philistines in the temple, he asked to
lean up against the main supports of the building.
And what we would only refer to today as an act of terror, Yahweh gave him the strength
to push down the pillars and become perhaps the first suicide bomber in memory.
However, because this story comes from the Old Testament and the main character is one
anointed by Yahweh, Samson is elevated to the place of a hero and this act is lauded,
not condemned.
What are the implications for a story like this one in the modern world?
If we are to derive moral lessons from the Old Testament and Samson is held up in this
particular act as one of great faith, what could this mean for the modern interpreter?
King asks the question in this way.
When a figure whose final act is so reminiscent of that of a modern day suicide bomber, any
longer be seen as inspiring for women and men of faith today.
Samson's final revenge appears to be another example of an act that seen in any context
outside of an inspired, inerrant text would be considered egregious and condemnable.
It is also incredibly problematic in my opinion to see evangelical scholars justifying Yahweh's
violence by arguing that he is essentially an equal opportunity divine warrior.
Sure, Yahweh called for the destruction of certain people groups, but he would bring
the same punishment upon his own people if they were to be disobedient.
Dr. Bloch's conclusion is particularly troubling.
Israel's policy of Herum plays no favorites.
Although seven specific nations are targeted, Deuteronomy is emphatic that if Israelites
will act like Canaanites, abandon YHW-esh and serve other gods, they too will be subject
to the same law, men, women, and children.
It is this precise sentiment that creates a type of remnant mentality in many Christian
circles.
Many Christians already actively distinguish themselves from unbelievers, but when they
believe that God will punish his own people if they get out of line, this adds an entirely
new dynamic.
This fairness of violence concept can motivate the real or faithful Christians to look around
and distinguish themselves from other fake Christians.
If someone who identifies as a Christian falls away, either through a sinful lifestyle
or simply by adhering to different theological convictions, they have now aligned themselves
against God because God even punishes his own.
This can be, and often is, easily turned against other believers.
This can justify their vitriolic or even violent behavior.
Since God plays no favorites, as with, for example, the genocide seen in Rwanda.
Finally, if you believe that a day will come when God violently conquers his enemies and
yours thereby, it can be easy for you to see non-believers through the lens of this future
violent judgment.
As mentioned above, over the last few years on social media, I have noticed a strong trend
in certain Christian circles towards notions of violence and its association with versions
of a type of apocalyptic theology.
That is not to say that these people are advocating overtly for violent actions in the
present, although that is sometimes the case.
Rather, attention is often directed toward the end of days when God will right all the
wrongs that have been and are being committed against his faithful subjects.
Remain in your unbelief.
When God comes back, you'll be sorry.
This type of persecution complex draws on notions of the believer's struggle and their
ultimate deliverance by the divine warrior.
The meek believer can rest assured that although they are destined, even mandated, to be persecuted
by the wicked of this world, their divine hero will balance the scales in the end, Collins writes.
From this perspective, the violence of apocalyptic eschatology serves as a kind of release valve,
whereby the oppressed convent their frustration and anger without actually translating their
feelings into violent action.
This attitude of delayed violence has several problematic effects.
First, as we have seen, it is predicated on a reading of violent passages in the Old
Testament that justifies what we would consider to be atrocious behavior in any other context,
especially for a deity.
To call for the genocide of any people group would result in strong condemnation unless
it is in the context of Yahweh's divine justice.
Because God knows all.
If he deems a group worthy of extermination, who are we to question his judgment?
The problem, of course, is that this must assume the text to be actually inspired by
the deity that has given the command and assumption that this is not without a multiplicity of
problems.
As a result, this delayed violence concept gives believers permission to think that divine
violence can be viable solutions to several real-world problems.
Although the faithful are admonished that vengeance belongs exclusively to God, it is
not uncommon to see people convinced of the correctness of their religious convictions
to take the matters into their own hands.
Collins observes.
There are many examples in both Jewish and Christian history of people who took it upon
themselves to force the end in defiance of religious authorities and the weight of tradition.
In the not-too-distant past, there was a plot to blow up the Temple Mount in Jerusalem
in hopes of accelerating Armageddon.
Finally, it leaves us at an ultimate impasse.
If the believer has become convinced that one, their position is absolutely correct based
on the inspiration of their holy text and inspired interpretation afforded by the indwelling,
holy spirit.
And two, persecution of the believers is inevitable because of the unbeliever has been blinded
to the truth.
And three, God will return in His glory and to bring destructive end to wicked unbeliever.
Under the strength of these convictions, there is little that can be done to negotiate
with the believer, who is left to feel that violence is the only viable solution.
Collins explains quite succinctly.
One of the reasons why apocalyptic rhetoric is conducive to violence is that it tends
toward dualism.
When the world is divided between good and evil, sons of light and sons of darkness,
then there is little room for compromise.
And without compromise, there is little alternative to violence.
What should we conclude about divine violence in the Old Testament?
What should we make of the passages that call for death and destruction at the command of
Yahweh?
If these passages are interpreted in a more literal or fundamentalist fashion, this is
incredibly problematic for the believer.
Even if these texts are to be understood rhetorically or hyperbolically, this does not
rid us of the ethical problems which follow divine commands of violence.
In fact, even if certain passages do not directly command violence, the overarching message of
so many biblical texts is that violence will ultimately solve the problems of the world,
even though it is the deity that will take up arms against the world of sinners.
It can be difficult for the faithful to disconnect themselves from the work of their Lord.
This can easily lead to actual physical violence, or perhaps, just as insidiously, righteous
ignomination and violence in their hearts.
As our journey through the tentuous realm of Yahweh, the ancient storm deity, comes
to a close, we reflect on the profound insights and challenging perspectives we have encountered.
This exploration has taken us beyond the surface of biblical narratives, diving deep into the
turbulent waters of history, theology, and human nature.
We've witnessed the destructive power attributed to Yahweh, a deity revered by many yet whose
actions raise profound moral and ethical questions.
This documentary has not only highlighted these divine conquests, but also placed them
in the broader context of historical events and religious beliefs of the time.
We've seen that Yahweh was not alone in his actions, as other kings and gods across various
cultures exhibited similar behaviors.
For some, this documentary has been an eye-opening experience, revealing the darker aspects of
a biblical deity.
For others, already familiar with these discussions, it has been offering a deeper understanding
through scholarly analysis.
We've critically examined the apologetic responses to these events, exploring how they
grapple with these challenging narratives.
This exploration has aimed to reveal the human fingerprints on the biblical texts, showing
how the descriptions of deities often reflect the values, fears, and ambitions of the times
in which they were written.
The comparison between the Old and New Testaments, especially regarding the concept of apocalyptic
violence, invites further reflection and debate.
We encourage you to continue this discussion, share your thoughts, reactions, and perspectives
in the comments below.
How do you interpret these narratives?
What insights or questions have arisen for you?
This documentary was inspired by Dr. Joshua Bowen's insightful work, The Atheist Handbook
to the Old Testament Volume 2.
We highly recommend this book for those seeking a deeper understanding.
Find the link in the description below, available in various formats to suit your preference.
Thank you for joining us on this enlightening journey through history, theology, and human
narrative.
If you've found this exploration as captivating as we have, please subscribe to our channel
to stay updated on future documentaries.
Don't forget to like this video, hit the bell when you subscribe, and join our community
by sharing your thoughts in the comment section and becoming a MythVision Patron as well as
a YouTube member.
We like to keep our family close, and this helps us continue to produce these documentaries.
Together we've navigated the heart of Yahweh, the storm deity who shows no mercy to his
enemies.
This is more than just a documentary, it's a gateway to understanding the complex nature
of our past and the beliefs that have shaped it.
The journey doesn't end here, it's just the beginning.
Keep exploring, questioning, and learning.
Thank you for being part of this adventure, and never forget, we are MythVision.
