You all know that I've been taking a deep dive on God, having a body, and looking into the works
of Francesca Stavricapullu and of course Daniel McClellan and other scholars who've noticed God
has a body. We're talking about the God of the Bible here, right? Even though this name of this
deity can be kind of shifty, especially if you want to say L and Yahweh and all of these gods are
the same. Long story short, I would refer you to Esoterica's recent video on Yahweh to kind of get
a taste of why this is an issue. But in this video, I noticed Kip Davis, Dr. Kip Davis, and Pat
Lohlinger were over on Nasta Conformance Channel, and I had to ask kind of a tasty, frisky question
about God and how bad does it really get with God's language, the biblical language about God
sexually toward Israel and maybe God's enemies. Is there something like a clear passage that you
would say is the worst one? Because there's some pretty nasty stuff there between God and others.
Myth, vision, podcast, go and subscribe. I'm sure most of you are, but any stragglers out there,
go and do it. You know you want to. Let's get into this. This is a good question right here.
What is the most vivid sexual passions between God and Israel or God's enemies? How bad does it get?
I feel like Derek is providing us a leading question here. So off the top of my head,
I would say Ezekiel chapter 16 is pretty brutal in which Yahweh, Ezekiel tells this prophecy on which
Yahweh is depicted as basically raping the young maiden Israel as he enters into a covenant with
her and then is in a covenant marriage relationship with this unfaithful spouse,
which from a modern perspective we would classify as extremely abusive.
I'll just say that. People go and go and look at Ezekiel chapter 16. It's pretty shocking.
This was one of the things that the Hebrew prophets in particular would use this sexualized
imagery. They would use these depictions of rape and abuse as a means to proclaim
Yahweh's judgment on the people. Wow. Anything else? Anything on that, Pat?
No. I can tell you some really bad things the early church father said, but no.
All right. Thank you. Derek's got one more. I know this because I saw it. I'm just scrolling down to
find it. Wow. There's a lot of comments today. Oh, where'd it go? There's a lot of super chats, too.
Did I pass Derek's other one? I know he had to. Derek Schumerik. Derek Schumerik.
Here it is. Here it is. How common in the ancient Nearis for the gods to tell you playing a role in
their literature and does this give credibility to Yahweh being similar? Well, I mean, I'll start
with the end of this. I certainly think so because in my opinion, the best way to understand the
religions and the culture of ancient Israel is by way not just through the biblical text,
but then trying to understand what's in the biblical text relative to whatever we know
about their closest contemporaries, the people who lived literally right around them.
So the ancient Near East is the realm out of which all our comparative data comes from.
And as Pat already pointed out, certainly within the ancient Greek world, it's the same thing
for the Assyrians and the Babylonians and the earlier Sumerians. I think it's
this is something, it was very common to feature phallic symbols and ideas in the literature.
It's in the, I believe it's Enki and Ershag. The chief god in that story literally
takes his giant penis and is like shoving it into the ground and ejaculating in order to
create vegetation. It's a common theme and against this backdrop, it's easy then to see
how naturally a reading that we've discussed for this particular passage.
And I need to stress that Dan McClellan, who is Francesca Stavrikopoulou's
PhD student, he made the point today in the live stream we did on Derek's channel,
A Myth Vision, that Professor Stavrikopoulou is a little surprised at how much of a reaction
this, I mean, she's dedicated like a page to it out of her 500 page book, this reading in Isaiah.
When there's lots of other texts from within the Hebrew Bible, which seem even
more clearly in some instances to be featuring, you always.
Don't forget you have Dionysus and Venus have a son named Prypus and this guy's always depicted
with this, the shalim hanging out. The one thing I would add to what Kip just said is
I have two things. One, I think the reason some, and I'm just going to call it the conservative
apologist community that want to rehabilitate Isaiah 61 is I think the other examples Francesca
gives are the ones they can't really doubt. This one though, this is one that maybe they
can argue back into conservatism and go, well, look, we proved it wrong on one. They're not
addressing the other ones, right? So again, this might be some, there may be a motivation to
rehabilitate their own scholarship, if you want to call that their own interpretation of the text,
or at least it can, a traditional interpretation, which I talked a little bit about earlier.
The second thing is, is gods of the, again, I look more at the Mediterranean, but the
Ancient Aries is also qualifies, ethnic groups, ethnicities in these regions, their pantheons
were their personification of the cultural identity. It wasn't just our gods and your gods,
our gods are better than your gods, particularly we're in war, hostilities, and these things were
occurring where there were cultural tensions in these regions. So in no pun intended,
the ancient gods had dick measuring contests, which the regions were a part of, because my
kingdom's partial submission, the last war being lost was a demasculization of our gods
by foreign deities. These are really important. So having a powerful god, again, I think 61 can
be interpreted as a euphemism for God's glory, but penis being one of those representative symbols.
So those two interpretations are, I think the only ones that really can be drawn out of the text,
a euphemistic approach to, or a more direct literal reading, which is then now we're talking
about genitalia. So again, I don't think it's, it's open to that much of dispute at this point,
and I'm, I'm convinced just because of the scholarship kept and I've worked on, on the last
couple of weeks or so. Well, it's incredible. I think you guys are, I'm sold on this. I think
you guys are made a good case here, but thank you, Derek, for that super chat. I do want to bring
up that the Greeks had a pretty open attitude towards what penises look like. This is just a
vase for holding liquids that was kind of just, you may see this at a dinner party. This is really
a rare piece from the sixth century, but it does show that Greeks were willing to have them as
objects of art and common usage throughout their homes. We have some phalluses here.
By the way, that's, you know, that's Amon, or that's Amon and Alexander the Great next to him.
Right. Well, that's from Luxor. I know this very, very beard showed, showed me in your document.
Right. So, so there's, right, there's multiple gods depicted, but the depiction of Egyptian
deities with large phallus starts pretty early. We have it from the very late part of the old
kingdom throughout the Ptolemaic and even Roman periods of Egypt. So again, a god's phallus being
large, larger than average, because I mean, everything about the god is larger than everything
is larger. Right. So again, a large phallus is a depiction of virility and strength and power of
a god. Right. And we just had to get that joke in on Derek. I just want to say that.
