We are live. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. Today, we're going to be talking about Bigfoot and much, much more.
In fact, we'll take your inquiries and your super chats, questions, anything like that. We're going to do a hangout with a scholar, an expert.
We're going to discuss, but first thing I want to just mention is that we have this really, really interesting figure we call Bigfoot.
Some call Yeti. There are various names for these, these type of primates, and they're pretty good at hide and go seek.
I would say not as good as God, but they're pretty good at hide and go seek.
And so let me introduce our guest today and let's enjoy this. I think this will be fun.
So Dr. Natalia Reagan, welcome to MythVision.
I have to correct you right there. I am not a doctor.
Okay, but, but you can call me doctor if you want. My mom's Dr. Reagan.
I have a masters, but just not misrepresent.
Got it. I want to be accurate here. So just so everybody know, you are an anthropologist.
I'm going to be reading the bio here so people can understand.
Anthropologist, primatologist, comedian, host, producer, podcaster, professor, writer, frequent animal expert and monkey chasing weirdo.
Your words. Not mine.
Before becoming a scientist, she was a comedic actress getting her sad card while playing a dancing chicken McNugget in a McDonald's commercial.
Natalia landed bit parts in the Drew Carey show. Everybody loves Raymond.
My name is Earl and Sex Drive.
After getting hit by her own truck on the shoulder of the 101 freeway, Natalia decided to go back too and then it cuts off.
Oh, no. I went to school to become a biological anthropologist.
Darn it. I guess that my bio was too big to put in the private chat.
Yes.
You're robust. But yeah, in my own words, if you want, I can finish it so you don't have to.
I went back to school to become a biological anthropologist and I actually studied these where I was spider monkey in rural Panama.
And then after grad school, I decided to make science comedy videos in my garage, which led to hosting.
Actually, the story of boobs the breast tail ever told landed me a spot on the Today Show to talk about Tata's with Ann Curry.
And then after I admitted on national television that I watched Skinna Max as a child, they never asked me back.
Shocking. And then in 2013, this is why I'm here, in 2013, I actually co-hosted a TV show called $10 million Bigfoot Bounty.
Say that 10 times fast with 1990 Superman Dean Cain.
He was conservative then, but much more so now. So we didn't talk politics.
But then I went on to work with Neil deGrasse Tyson, writing comedy and posting and being a correspondent on his podcast and TV shows.
And, you know, you've probably seen me on a bunch of Nat G is a lot of science shows.
I do a lot of science shows, talking head stuff.
So big on science and comedy and people will pick that up.
So she has a website. It's in the description. She also has a YouTube channel.
We're coming back to this 2.24 K. We're going to see how many subscribers we can get for you by the end of the live stream.
We hope I pinned it at the top of the comment section for everybody who's tuning in.
She's also got an Instagram and you can go follow her at that as well as Twitter.
So with that being said, Bigfoot is the real deal.
He is the greatest hide-and-go-seek champion in the world, like you mentioned.
But as a scientist and a skeptic, I would say the probability of Bigfoot existing is I can't say it's impossible, but it's directly adjacent to zero.
And I'll go through some of the reasons, reasons why.
And when I hosted the Bigfoot show, so I had just graduated from grad school in 2011 and it was 2013 that we did the show.
And I was nervous because, you know, I didn't have much time to have any street cred.
Hold on.
I have a very loud snoring pug in the distance.
So if you hear something.
I don't hear it, but your mic might be filtering it out.
And just so everybody knows, that's the original OG Bigfoot film, right?
Yeah.
Right.
But yeah, so I was scared to do this show because I was like, I don't want to lose all street cred before I even have any.
But I saw this as an awesome opportunity because they were doing great science on the show.
The reality competition show, nine teams of two were going out.
And this is the funny thing.
It was it was called $10 million Bigfoot bounty.
And it was Lloyds of London that actually put up the money and whoever could find photographic and DNA evidence, which to be honest, photographic evidence doesn't mean crap, literally.
Because if you've got the DNA evidence, that's kind of what you need.
By DNA evidence, what would you need to make it?
What would make that a golden toward quite literally for the $10 million?
And that is that it would be a non-human primate DNA that has not been sequenced before that would be in the Great Eight family.
If you do believe, for instance, that Bigfoot is a Great Eight, because some of the Bigfoot Squatchers, Yeti Hunters had pretty interesting theories of what Bigfoot could be.
Some thought they were an interdimensional time traveling creature that could go back and forth between dimensions.
And that's why we've never found any sort of Bigfoot scat or skeletons.
Can I just make a comment as you're going along with this?
I find it interesting that some interpretations of Bigfoot, because there's scant to no evidence that's like, we have it.
Here it is. I see overlap with that and our perceptions of God.
Now, I know that philosophy, you go way, way back.
There's a development where God becomes less anthropomorphic and more abstract as an idea and out there somewhere.
What better I'll say hypothesis than to say, well, my guy can actually teleport out of existence.
It's my favorite.
I'm sorry.
No, sorry. No, it's my favorite comeback because you're like, I've got no rebuttal because that is so far out there.
I have nothing to say.
Yeah. I mean, it's interesting that they were not putting the words in their mouth.
They're the ones who postulate these ideas because, well, we can't find them.
We have these like out of the corner of my eye, I saw something dark and big or the strange examples of people who think they saw or felt or whatever,
or even maybe fabricate data, which I'm sure a lot of these are hoaxes.
Hoaxes, hoaxes, poxes.
Yeah, a lot of hoaxes going on.
And no, I mean, it's a great comparison.
So I would never call myself an atheist.
I would always say I'm an agnostic because I don't know.
I don't know.
And so while I don't know about a lot of things, I can't claim to know.
So I would rather just say, I don't know, but that doesn't, you know, that doesn't mean there's belief there.
And so with Bigfoot, I think there's a very romantic, lovely notion that there's this large bipedal hominin walking in the world that we can't find.
And I understand wanting to believe this.
I also don't want to discredit or to sort of dismiss indigenous knowledge or those that have tales about, you know, a Yeti or a Sasquatch or a skunk ape.
I know a friend of mine is Comanche and they call them Muppets, which is their version of, say, a Bigfoot.
And, you know, I'm not here to be like, you know, yuck, someone's yum.
My response is going, squatching on the weekend with your son, your daughter, your buds and drinking beers by the river is what you want to do.
I'm not going to sit there and be like, don't, you know, do what you want.
I'm not here to yuck your yum.
I just, if you're going to come with and say that you want to discover a new species of non-human primate, my response is this is an excellent opportunity to teach about primatology and to learn about it.
If you actually want to discover a new species of primate and you're open, just like I was always open to hear their theories because some of them were really interesting.
And I was like, okay, and it's, whether it's, it's more of a fiction thing or more, you know, rooted in fact, I don't know.
I think there's something to be said about having that sort of dialogue and we can learn from each other, right?
Like for instance, on Bigfoot Bounty, we had, you know, I'm not a hunter.
I'm not an animal tracker that way.
I'm an animal tracker as, and I studied spider monkeys and I knew what to look for for them.
But like, I would learn things from the actual animal hunting trackers as they were learning weird primate evolution from me, right?
So it gave me an opportunity and I've done a talk, if you're familiar with Tam, the meeting at James Randy, Amazing Randy.
Yeah, so Amazing Randy used to have a, he was, he was, he was truly amazing.
One of the nicest men I've ever met and one of the kindest souls, but also, you know, a fierce advocate for skepticism and reason.
So, you know, he's got my love, but I was honored and to be invited to speak at Tam 13 in 2015.
And I opened, I opened the conference and, you know, a lot of people told me to my face, we thought it was going to suck.
We did not know why you were here because they thought I was going to kind of be fluffy and like, I'm blond and I'm going to talk about Bigfoot.
And I was like, no, I want to, it was primatology 101.
I was like, okay, if you want to talk about Bigfoot, let's go through all the different things we talk about, you know, diet, their claws versus nails, their locomotion, their vocalization, their reproduction.
How are they meeting each other? How are they stripping? Is it just one dude? That's weird.
But like, go through all of that. And, you know, it was kind of a primatology lesson.
So it was a lot of fun. And that was kind of what the show was for me.
It was an opportunity to talk about science that a lot of people would never get, hominin evolution.
Talking about myosin apes like Gigantepithecus, who's often thought to be the ancestor of Bigfoot, you know.
So it was really, really, really cool to have that opportunity.
And we had a mobile DNA lab, which was really awesome at that point in time.
I'm just showing love to the audience.
It's interesting. Some of the things you're saying here, you know, are great questions to ask.
Like, how are they meeting? And how many are there?
And like, there's all these questions that we haven't even established for sure to begin with.
But I did want to ask you something, and this might rabbitrell us.
Beesh, like, so you're driving the train, put us back on the tracks whenever you feel like we're getting a little bit more off.
But in your estimation, based on your research and engagement with Bigfootians, we'll call them.
Yetis and the various tribesmen.
Watchers.
Yeah, whatever you want to categorize the whole thing.
And what do you, as someone who's science-minded, a primatologist, anthropologist,
going at this from a scientific angle, what do you think is the basis behind?
Do you think it's a misperception?
Or do you think this goes back to a time kind of like I've heard?
Sorry, this sounds a little discombobulated, but I'll give you an example.
One psychologist I think it was, he's an evolutionary scholar that I've interviewed,
said that the reason kids are often scared of monsters under the bed is that this is wired into us.
From millions of years ago, living in the canopies of the trees, all of our monsters truly were under our beds for millions of years.
So it's neurologically, psychologically wired into our DNA at this point to have some sort of perception or subconscious reality
that there's something under our bed or in the dark closet over there because nocturnal creatures for millions of years
ate our ancestors, our families, our loved ones, et cetera.
And so I'm wondering if there's some psychological thing in your estimation as to why they think massive ass giant primate,
yet they may have existed at some point in the past and yet we're still carrying the superstition, if that makes sense.
Yeah, well, the thing about something being under your bed, one of the things I think to point out, for instance,
it's not even just under our bed, it's above us too, because if there's actually Gwennans, which are, there's many species of Gwennan type of monkey
that in the canopy, they live in different parts of the canopy, and they have different calls for raptors that are coming from above
and those coming from below, like snakes and jaguars, or not jaguars in this case, but leopards, because this would be in Africa, not in South America,
but they basically would have different calls for these type of predators.
So we've been getting it from up top and below for a while, right?
And it's not just things at night too, like that's the other thing.
There's a lot of diurnal predators out there that, diurnal meaning those that are active during the day, that one of the theories of why we walk on two legs
is for predator avoidance to be able to see above the savanna grass or get up high so we have a good vantage point.
There's many theories of why we walk on two legs and there could be multiple factors at play, but just that's a good point
in terms of things like the boogeyman or something under your bed.
These stories, these sort of tales that we tell the youth are also ways to keep them in line, to keep them behaving well, right?
You better do, you better brush your teeth or the boogeyman's going to get you or this is going to get you, right?
Even magic and things like that, you know, you better do this or I'm going to put a spell on you or, you know, all these types of sort of rules and regulations,
religion is the same when you put certain rules on people, you're controlling them.
It's a control mechanism, especially if we're going to look at, you know, religion and modern day, like with women and reproductive rights and things of that sort.
Definitely, it's less about, you know, sanctity of life and more about controlling a population, a 51% of the population.
But with Bigfoot, I do think that that's the thing we have to consider is that it's not all bad, right?
Some people think Bigfoot is a benevolent creature that is not, you know, out to get you.
It's not a bad thing. It's, you know, it's actually just a creature that wants to survive and not be found, right?
So that's one of the things that we look at is when we talk to different people, what their theories are, because that's the crazy thing.
There's just all tort, like the whole spectrum of, you know, he eats, you know, people upon first sight, you know, and then there's like, oh, no,
he's a chill dude that just wants to thrive in the forest, you know?
So, and there's different indigenous tales around the world, not just here in, you know, the Pacific Northwest or in the Midwest,
because the last episode of Bigfoot Bounty, they actually shot in UP, Upper Peninsula, Michigan, right?
So it's not just the Pacific Northwest and the Squatchers that actually won Bigfoot Bounty, because by the way, spoiler alert,
we didn't find the big guy, but the two last, you know, men standing were two Squatchers from Florida where they have the skunk ape.
So there's different ideas of what Bigfoot could be. Why they want to, well, I think there's a few different things look like,
look at why they, there are these stories and tales and why do they persist, but also what are they possibly seeing, that misconception that,
oh, you know, and one example is bipedal bears. If you Google bipedal black bears, you know, the black bears love to get up on two legs and walk around,
there's one here, and unfortunately, I think it got killed in California, that would just walk around the neighborhood, just all willy-nilly, you know?
And that can be, you know, misconstrued as, you know, if it's super tall, eight foot tall, like, I don't, and you see that through the trees and maybe you had one or two paps blue ribbons,
you know, like, you know, you don't know. Another thing I remember when we shot it, a team thought they saw something and it ended up being two cows doing the nasty,
you know, just bovine, bovine love making. So again, there could be, you know, hearing things and seeing things and just kind of making that big leap.
So I guess the question I have is, and people commented a few interesting things along the way, like Krampus or various beast type creatures.
What's driving the, in your estimation, like, what do you think is driving it? Various factors, there's various things, like it's a longstanding idea, it seems that,
Well Krampus, you know, again, it's like these things that kind of keep kids in line, you know what I mean? Like Krampus, it's like a scary tale that like, you know, oh Krampus is going to get you, you know?
And also we love, we're humans are storytellers, you know, we like the dark, we like the light, we like to look at, you know, good versus evil, you know, and I think with something like, say, like a more of a malevolent figure, like Krampus, you know, you don't ever really see them in like the positive light.
So, you know, I think that right there is kind of a spooky story or a scary story to keep kids in line. Like I've done a lot of paranormal shows like, was it paranormal caught on camera?
I've never watched an episode, but I get like, my aunt will be like, I just saw you on it. And I'm like, oh no, oh no, because I think they find me to make me look like a believer.
And I was like, because they would, they brought me on to talk bigfoot. And then in the end, they would just keep me on because I was always good at riffing.
So they'd show me clips of ghosts, you know, doing really boring crap. And I'm like, these are the most boring ghosts I've ever seen, you know what I mean?
And they would take it as if I, but anyways, they would have Slenderman, the rake, all these different, terrifying, you know, paranormal creatures out there.
And again, it's, I think those sort of tales, we sort of cling to them. It's kind of part of our human existence is creating these sort of stories, these narratives.
If it was just happy stories all the time, I mean, I think we'd be bored out of our tears. So I think, you know, to be, to get the psychology of it.
And also there's a very, like I said, it's romantic. I actually wrote, so I hosted that Bigfoot show. And I remember thinking to myself when they, I never actually, I didn't have a TV at the time when it aired.
And so I actually had to live stream it based on other people, or live tweeted based on other people's tweets. So I've never even really fully seen every episode, right?
But the ones that I saw, I was like, oh man, I wish they just gave me the footage so we could have Reno 911 did because it was so funny.
Like every episode, they'd have to bring bio materials for proof of finding Bigfoot. And by bio materials, I mean, it was a literal shit show.
That's what I was thinking. Yeah.
It was called the elimination round without irony. Like it was, and it was, it was like literally like turd after turd. My favorite was that one team kept bringing in moss.
And in saying it was hair, like, and I was like, no, I think I said no moss moss, because, you know, and explain the branching off of the moss, this is not hair.
But yeah, again, it was, it was fascinating because we got to like, you know, sequence all the turds.
They even one team, this was really cool, they brought in feathers and were able to spin the feathers to determine that it had fielded DNA on it, meaning that a cat had eaten whatever bird that was.
We also had one where they had to capture biting, blood sucking insects. So like carrion flies, leeches, mosquitoes, and then you can dissect their abdomen and get blood from their most recent meal and deter.
You can kind of do an ecological survey without even seeing the animal. So one of the leeches came back with equine DNA. So it just sucked on a horse, right? It's kind of cool.
Yeah.
So but we did this was funny. We did have to tell the contestants.
I think they took DNA samples of everyone and they were like, do not bring us your own crap. We will find out because they had, you know, they knew everybody's, you know, DNA, they're like, do not because it, you know, they get desperate.
It was like, by the end of the show, they're like, here's another.
Oh my gosh. And this is, this is like, they're really competing, even if they have to fabricate or do any, just to find they're trying to win, no matter what it seems.
Yeah, because yeah, and what we had to do, and this was like, it was such a funny show, because again, like this is my, I done lots of TV before this as an actress, but never as a host of a, of a reality show.
This was wild to me. I was like, what am I doing? This is, and the thing is also, I realized very early on, and I'm not trying to throw the network or anyone under the bus.
It's just these shows have so many egos attached to them higher up that are constantly throwing different like conflicting notes at you, because if they don't have a note, then their job is not applicable anymore.
So one day I'd get a note, like be funnier, then I'd be like, you're too, too silly to live, you need to be more serious. No, no, no, that's too serious.
You know, like it was every day I was like, I'm gonna go crazy. I don't know. I don't know what you want.
But I also think they didn't know what they wanted, right. And so, in the end, and this was really interesting.
At the end, I got called, I was doing, I went straight from shooting the show to teach primate field school. So I went straight from Pacific Northwest, got on a plane to go to Costa Rica, was a TA for primate field school.
So I was teaching students how to put together research projects and chase monkeys. And then I had to go to Panama to present a conference and I was in Panama and I got a call from the producer, who's a friend of mine, and he's just doing his job.
But he's like, Hey, Natalia, I need you to come out, come back so we can do some reshoots. And he's like, Have you ever seen the X files? And I said, Of course, you know, and he goes, Well, we need Todd to be more scully, and we need you to be more
Mulder. And I was like, I can't do that. I can't do I'm not playing Dr, you know, Mary whether chambers, you know, I'm, I'm Natalia Reagan, I can't fake that I believe this, you know, so I had to put my foot then it was the first time like I was, you know, kind of knew it.
The game of hosting a show, you know, and I had to kind of put my foot down and be like, I can't be a believer, you know, I'll lose all credibility. Yeah, you would.
I had an offer. I never mentioned it to the channel because it's never I'd rather see it happen than try to mention. But there's a channel or there's a there's a potential documentary at some point in the future where they wanted a skeptic.
And they wanted a believer in what the the whole thing was about is the ancient civilization arguments that you hear people say like a, you know, Egyptologists say these pyramids were built 2,500 BCE and the 19th dynasty this this that.
And they actually say they're trying to like uprule any consensus on the archaeological data on the Egyptologist claims all these things. You look at these stones or how did they get these perfect things without a modern technology all of these like how did they build the pyramids how do they.
And so they wanted someone like me to be skeptical, but they were saying a kind of hinting at like upfront. Hey, during this show, we're hoping that we convert you kind of like we want you to do that and I'm like, look, I'm going to be skeptical.
I'm not an expert in this area and I would defer to the scholars. It kind of like really was really weird to me because I have family that's big into the I'll use the term conspiracy theories because they're big into these and when they talk about we don't know exactly how the pyramids are built.
I know we don't know exactly how they built them, but we have actual documentation from pharaohs for like actual receipts of them getting the rocks from the quarry and making the pyramids.
Yeah, how exactly they did so I don't know, but like why are we ignoring that pretending that humans at that time did not build them like, do you think they fabricated this information what would be the I mean like how far do you want to go.
Yeah, in being that way and so anyway, I've never been on a show, but they've offered that and I'm like, as long as they would tell me, even if you aren't persuaded you're welcome to be part of it, maybe I'll join you know what I mean.
Yeah, and that's tough so I've done a lot of things about ancient aliens and talked about this sort of idea of if it wasn't, if it wasn't a white European nation that built this monumental architecture.
I know what you mean.
Yeah, and that's a lot of a lot of archaeologists would argue they do know a lot about how this happened it took time.
Yeah, because that's how advanced they were.
But even recently I was just talking to a woman I met at a wedding this weekend who also studied archaeology like so I studied my, my, my background is in four field or anthropology so I had a decent archaeology training, but that's not my specialty.
My specialty is is biological anthropology but she was more of an archaeologist, and that was her focus and we were just talking about different, you know, settlements in Guatemala, and you know on the sort of Pacific side.
Actually, when I was both sides of the Pacific and the Caribbean side and just different settlements of mine towns that had very, you know, complex ways of alerting sailors that they were about to approach land, much like a lighthouse would, or like,
Recently, I need to look this up because it just I just saw it a couple days ago I'm going to Ecuador next month and they just unearthed the new town, a big city in Ecuador that rivals to Teotihuacan in Mexico City so again like there's a lot of
progress made very early on and a lot of innovation made very early on you know like we talked about Machu Picchu and, you know, different like pyramids in South America that were done, you know,
way before a lot of monumental architecture was done in Western Europe but a lot of times it's dismissed as we don't know how they did it or, you know, that seems, you know, we got to find some sort of paranormal reason for why this happened.
Even Easter Island with the Moai or Rapa Nui, they have determined how they were able to move them and it's wild.
I don't know if you've ever seen them walking like it was kind of like experimental archaeology or, you know, trying to recreate the how they would have done it but they actually walk the Moai those giant stone faces right and they're able to do it.
It's very tough.
It's not easy, but they were able to do it and so, again, I think we have to question why it's always those civilizations that were sort of wasting that alien narrative on.
Yeah, I know what you mean like what's the underlying thing I like this one by DJ Franks is yeah, if they had some super technology why did they only use it to stack rocks.
I mean, specifically the pyramids of course, um, in like Egypt and whatnot, but all over the world really like what's what's going on here, um, the relatives off of Bigfoot.
Yeah, I'm trying to think I there was one thing I was going to say about Bigfoot and I got I got a little, um, if you will, I don't want to throw you know and I was going to say I don't know if anyone's brought up Patterson.
Probably not Patterson Gimlin film, because I was going to say like just so just to I've taken down the Patterson Gimlin film, I don't need to because it's already been confirmed they've already admitted it was a hoax.
That is the very famous one in Bluff Creek, California.
I actually we went there during Bigfoot bounty and shot at Bluff Creek, which was wild right and that whole town it's called Willow Creek is so cool because everything is Bigfoot themed everything is like and we stayed there.
I think we were there for four days, five days maybe.
And so I am a runner.
So I'd start every day like you know running by all the there's just statues of Bigfoot all throughout town.
It was really kind of neat.
But that Patterson Gimlin film you know it's supposed to be a female Sasquatch walking in this clearing.
And I always point out and people get kind of like why is she talking about her boobs.
But she's a picture of this one.
Yeah, I think you did you.
Yeah, I think this is a Patterson.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, she's got you know she's got some impressive rack.
I'll say, but they're super high.
They're covered in fur and they don't move.
You know, there are a lot of non human primates have they get so humans are unique and we're the only non we're the only animal in the animal kingdom that gets real boobs as in fat surrounding the mammary gland like all mammals we lactate right all of us do so.
We lactate and non human like our closest genetic relatives chimpanzees and bonobos lactate, but they don't have permanent today's right.
They lactate when they're nursing and then they go kind of go back down.
They might be saggy but they're not filled and plump right.
We get them at puberty and they stick around right and they're also before the advent of bras and things of that sort.
They're great indicator of age, especially you've got big Whammy's right because gravity takes hold and so this big foot image.
She has a pretty substantial, you know, sweater cows, and they are sweater cows because they're draped in for and a lot of non human primates that they don't have for on their boobs are actually clear of that.
And they move right like boobs move, especially if they're that big and they also are just.
I mean, I made a joke I was like who's her doctor because I'd love to meet her for him because they're like super high and tight you know and these are things to look at I know it sounds silly but like you know if you're a woman looking at a film that's
supposed to be a female Sasquatch it's like in what world right but you know that has already been cleared as a hoax and there's been tons of other ones like footprints or another good one.
It's easy you know they talk about the mid-tarsal break it's easy to fake that and it's at this point I always say like hey if you found footprints and you like they legitimately think they're footprints right.
Why don't you look around the footprint because obviously if that was a big foot and they were there let's look and see if they left any biomaterials nearby and biomaterials don't necessarily have to be poop but it could be like did they eat a piece of fruit or some leaves and left saliva on it that's the way you can get you know basically
and it's called EDNA environmental DNA you could also look for hair and by the way it for instance if you do find maybe like a piece of hair you know like a straight of hair you what you really want is the follicle that is like the that is the best part to get viable DNA you know so
these are things that you can look for they can be clues if because I don't again I'm not here to yuck anyone's young if you're like I definitely want to go squatching I'm not giving up the hunt I'm like okay cool look for other little signs that might give you more definitive answer.
But yeah I was gonna say one of the things that I did because I love this idea of big foot and I've always like labyrinth was one of my favorite movies growing up right I love love love labyrinth I love this idea of this world of mythical cryptid creatures I think it's so romantic and beautiful I think it's such a great.
I don't know and in my mind now what I think is magic and when I when I walk out my door or you don't even have to walk out my door I can hear the hooting of the owls I hear the weird chatter of my ravens you know what I mean that to me is like my own little magical mythical creatures even though they're very much real like there's so much.
I don't know cool stuff in nature but I wrote a pilot based on that show that I did called Didley Squatch and it's basically it's really fun I had it had a lot of interest in 2021 and you know.
The plague so I'm actually rewriting it right now and hoping to get it back out there because I do think it's a lot of fun but it's the idea of like actually discovering.
You know a real big foot and what would that look like what what would that be like for somebody who didn't believe to all of a sudden have to be forced into believing and hide it.
I'd like to ask the question I asked in our previous discussion which isn't edited yet which will come out and that is.
What if someone like me who's extremely skeptical is not a science mind like you who knows the anthropology the fossil record inside out or at least very well said OK hold on I don't think this mythical creature exists I think that there are fanciful stories but.
There's a basis to the reality that maybe some form of hominid exists that survived what are your arguments in saying I don't buy it and here's why I don't think this big foot is actually a hominid that survived and just somehow hide and seek at this point.
Yeah well I mean even like looking at population by ability analysis for a hominin to go undetected for that long and also sustain of population for.
About thousands of years you know like thousands of thousands of years is really unlikely right you know I mean because like even our own species went through a bottlenecking like 70,000 years ago and.
Almost one extinct because we just our numbers numbers drop so much so usually like when we look at.
Other animals we do things like a popular it's called the population by ability analysis how many individuals do we need.
For thriving population to last into several generations because we have to take an account in breeding depression right so like who the heck is big foot getting down with.
You know how big is this popular how okay here let me just put the picture you know like how do they are there different groups and this is like I asked questions like I would ask about any species right like it was a species of geckos it's like are there different groups and they like have like for instance with chimpanzees and
the nobos they're called patrolocal meaning the male state in the group the females disperse in baboons a lot of times it's the males that disperse the female stay so like.
You know is how does that work and where do they go how do they meet somebody how do they make sure they're not like distant cousins and if so are they experiencing their own problem with like.
Inbreeding problems right so you know that right there is is a is a is a big factor like how are they getting down and how are they going undetected especially if it's such a big.
Animal you need a lot of food to feed that animal where are they getting it that's a big question I ask watchers what is big foot eat.
Right you know and a lot of times they're like well he's or they or whatever they want to say I love big game animal and this and that you know and I'm like how are they catching them do they have a tool industry.
You know because we will know but like you know Neanderthals had musterion homo sapiens you know the early like well first like early you know now they think program through his boys I use old one tools but first was homo habilis did they have a tool industry that we can find you know how are they felling these big game animals you know some are like oh they're.
Jumping on trees and jumping out of trees and jumping on them and like clawing at them with their claws I'm like all primates have nails not claws the only.
Primate that has claw like nails or calitric is and that's because they're very small and live in trees that have to scramble up so like I kind of would like catch them and little thing and I'm not trying to be like.
It's just more like take this information and see what you can work with it and also like you should have the full this is why I think you want to find big but you gotta think like a primatologist you have to think like a scientist.
I did my comparison with the Tam talk was like if you want to go back to the future you need to become a physicist you need to get a DeLorean you need to make friend with Doc Brown you gotta get a plutonium from a bunch of Libyans you know.
I mean that was my future joke but like like a scientist like a primatologist but.
So yeah I do again I think it's highly romantic that like homo erectus you know but although homo erectus probably wasn't swabbed in for and they were not that tall they were tall homo erectus was quite tall but not not that tall.
There has been theories that it was gigantopithecus now gigantopithecus used to have three species in the genus but gigantopithecus is the genus.
Gigantopithecus blackie is the name of the species and it has been determined that they're they're basically the great great great great great great great great great grandfather of orangutans they're you know related to them.
And so they were we only know we only have we have very little remains of gigantopithecus we have no post cranial so we only have a lower jaw.
Okay so we have got you know the mandible and we've got some teeth that are huge they're giant hence gigantopithecus huge giant molars huge but no post cranial remains and so we're basing a lot of this on.
Liminal liminal minimum minimal evidence like actual cranial evidence and most likely you know gigantopithecus if it was as tall as they say like 78 foot tall but would have been quadruped would not have been walking on two legs and there's certain ways that you can determine whether a hominin walked on two legs or not we have not you one of them is through.
It's called the foramen magnum so like here here's a.
Yeah, there's a homo this is a this is Lake Turkana boy or Naya Katomi homo ergaster.
This was a young male that died around 12 years of age they projected he would have been about six foot tall quite quite tall.
But this is the way you determine one of the ways to determine if something was bipedal or not was the positioning of the foramen magnum which is the hole.
Where the spinal cord goes into at the base of the skull the more anterior positioned it is closer to the front of the skull, more likely it was a biped.
If it was a quadruped it would have been positioned further back so that's a way that you can determine you also look at the femur.
I don't have a femur with me this is why I miss working in a lab.
I need to 3d print a femur with the femur you can look at the formoral neck so you know when you have a femur you have that neck with the knob at the end, the longer the neck and the way that the femur is angled that also is a way you can tell if something was bipedal you can look at the calcaneus or the heel bone of like so you know when you walk on two feet.
You're putting a lot of pressure on that calcaneus that heal we have a very thick.
Calcaneus compared to other non human primates that walk on all fours so these are the things that you look at but unfortunately with gigantopithecus we have very liminal or keep saying liminal minimal minimal remains but this is but it's but it's I think again this is what I love big foot.
How often do I get to talk about myosin apes on a live stream right you know but I still think it's fascinating you know and I want people to know like these are the ways you can determine something walked on two legs.
That's how you determine if it's an ancestor or not you know talking about weird hominin tool industries rad.
I was actually pretty blown away by living up here in Washington to see so many stickers usually they're on the back.
Oh yeah so yeah there's like these Sasquatch stickers like they really believe it's almost like a Christian putting the cross or fish on the back of their car.
You know again I don't hate it I freaking love it I hold on I'm also going to show you this is my one of my favorite I have a bunch of big foot stuff as you can imagine here's my one of my big foot pendants.
I've got a couple of these.
I again if you're going to believe in something.
I'll take big although sometimes I get a lot of squatchers that follow me and not always but sometimes they're very conservative and they don't like my.
World view and that's fine that's fine we don't you know but sometimes they're like they'll follow me for like two minutes and then they'll be like whoa.
Who is this liberal lady you know that's fine you know we don't hey we don't always have to agree on things but yeah I think it's.
I think it's pretty amazing that there's so many people that want to and even like the I think a lot of people.
Unlike the Jesus fish.
I think people put big foot on their car even if they don't necessarily fully believe you know there's that pop culture aspect of big foot there's the Harry and the Henderson's.
You could say the same thing about the fish and the cross to like a lot of Christians are called Christians they they say and then they're one Saturday doing their thing or they live however they want but they're.
You know so I imagine there's some overlap in terms of the degree at which they take serious their their beliefs and I think this rolls into a belief category.
I mean look I grew up in I grew up running the woods running the creeks fishing the ponds you know shooting squirrels and things like that when I was younger with my BB gun.
You know that little BB gun like I I know the exploration and the enjoyment of this big world of like there's a turtle in the water right there and then what is that over there and like hunting and doing that kind of stuff there's something cool about that.
At the same time I now I enjoy going well is this true and what are we doing and how does this impact us so I'd like to ask you one more and then anyone who has questions can ask or if you have somewhere you want to take this and that is.
Have you ever had someone hostile because you you're not convinced if anything the evidence you're presenting is critical of there being an actual big foot have you ever had anyone threaten you or any crazy stuff crazy emails.
Not crazy I've just been kind of insulted you know like Bobo from finding is it finding big yeah Bobo from finding big foot which is like the big big foot show right like we were like a small.
Little itty bitty big foot show had one season disappeared Bobo is like a host on the bigger one he called me like a what I did the video about taking down the Patterson Gimlin film and just how like you can like look at it piece by piece and determine it was not real.
He called me like a dumb blonde dits or something like that which you know whatever you know but nobody really has been mean.
Because I think what's interesting and like I think I love the comparison of belief and faith in God and big foot you know I really love that I think I'm not I'm really happy that we're talking about that because I do think there's some similarities like there's a bit of a blind.
Face you know like like for instance like seeing God in a piece of toast like we you know we see big foot as a bear bipedal bear walking in the woods you know we can we can interpret a lot of things to fit our our narrative you know there's a lot of.
You know confirmation bias out there so that I think is really interesting but I haven't I haven't had too much on the show I know that some people.
Didn't like me but it's fine I mean not everyone's gonna like you right like especially if I'm the skeptic you know and I also wasn't like my co-host Todd who's one of my best friends like I absolutely adore him.
But he was like you know I took the show so seriously I barely I didn't like really drink I don't drink now but like I barely like drink or party because he would like hang with the contestants like not in a in an.
You know like it wasn't not cool we can all hang with each other it wasn't like we were like sequestered but you know I wasn't trying to be everyone's best friend I was just I was trying to do a good job.
You know and he even though it was his first show to he's a he was a full professor at a university.
I was I think you know I'm a science communicator through and through that's what I do I might have taught along the way but like I majority of my money has come from science communication.
At some points it was teaching but not then and so I took it really really seriously and I think that you know I so I didn't have that sort of buffer of they really loved me you know even though like I'm still friends with a lot of them.
On social media and stuff and we'll still have kind of like these nice conversations there's some that really didn't like the fact that I.
You know but it was but we had I don't know there was some really great conversations and things that I didn't even know like.
This is a great example of why if you knew if you knew your monkeys and apes like Coyote Peterson for instance I didn't even really know who he is but he's like one of those people that like gets bit and stung for fun or like he's like he always.
He's like one of those adventure types like a like a like a more sensational bear gorillas I think in and please correct me if I'm wrong.
Viewers because I don't know for sure but he he came out in 2022 saying that he found he found.
Oh yeah he was in the Pacific Northwest and he was like I found a new species of primate in the mud and it's like this picture of the skull coming out of the mud and I was like that is a western lowland gorilla skull.
It's just and by oh here we know I have one behind me.
No I think it's on another shelf but anyways it's a yeah sorry I'm like you find my skulls are just they're all over the place but yeah a western lowland and I have a miniature one western lowland gorilla skulls are just they're intense when you look at that you're just like what you're like damn it has a huge sagittal crest.
Which there's sexual dimorphism in gorillas meaning there's big size difference it well sexual dimorphism is just differences between sexes within a species and in gorillas specifically its size you know you got a 400 pound male gorilla and 250 pound female but the males have this very pronounced it almost looks like a
conquist it or a helmet like this pronounced ridge like this hold on where are you.
This has a more pronounced one this is this is not a gorilla skull but this is pranthropus.
And I know it's black so it's hard to see but here you can kind of see that ridge right there gorillas male gorillas have that sort of ridge see how it looks like this like really cool mohawk but a bony mohawk.
And that right there is usually you know it's indicative of having a really strong bite force because those the muscles you know Tipper Alice muscles will come up and attach at the top here they'll go through these this particular species has very big cheekbones it'll come up through and attach.
But anyways I look took one look look at that skull that coyote Peterson was like look at this and friends of mine sent it to me.
Brian Dunning if you're familiar with Brian Dunning of Skeptoid good friend of mine reached out to me and was like hey Natalia check this out and I was like god damn it now I have to make a video and I did I took it down like I took down this sort of like idea that he didn't say it was big but but that's what he was alluding to and a lot of his fans attacked me you know and it was not like it wasn't trying to be mean what I was trying to say.
Was he knew what he was doing he knew what he was doing he and also what was frustrating to me and I got me an opportunity to talk about this is trafficking of gorilla body parts is a thing.
Like you can buy you know gorilla hands and skulls on the on you know like an underground markets you know all around the world but also specifically in Africa of course where they come from but it's like you know you don't want to send out the message that like you know I would like to know that he got the skull like the skull is a cast right.
I hope it's a bone clone skull not something he bought because that sends the wrong message to people that might be watching but also like you know if you're an educator.
You don't need to hoax to educate you know you could do a quick like haha just got you like this is actually this right and that would have been kind of a I think a cooler way of going about instead of faking this bigfoot thing but then one of the contestants on the show actually on bigfoot bounty.
Showed me a picture and he's like this is called Deloitte's ape and it was from the early it was the late eight late 1890 or maybe 1890s early like turn of the century turn turn of the 20th.
And essentially it's this primate being kind of propped up and I took one look at it and I was like that's a spider monkey propped up with a stick you know and because I do what I do there was no question it was like it's like you know.
If you were a plumber and you saw a certain type of leak you'd look at it and be like of course that's what that is you know like you are a sailor and you look at a not and that's the you know whatever the square flip not you know and so again that's why I think treating this like you're doing a science is the best way to do.
Yeah it makes me wonder the person that knows that they're making up the data to make it bigfoot.
It makes me want to know the psychology of some of these people like are they know this is all hoax and this is their paycheck or is there some combination they really believe but they have to insist in fabricating data in order to.
themselves and others because I know that when I was an apologist for Christianity like I was I would find arguments to try and prove my belief system so you are looking for ways to confirm you're already presupposed belief.
And so whatever costs some people are willing to go beyond like sincere accurate data to try and do it they'll fabricate or go beyond the argument or.
Make up stuff along the way to push that so it's not that they don't believe it's that they're willing to lie to make their belief even truer.
Yeah and that's the thing about science like for instance.
If someone came to me or if it got published if we discovered an actual bigfoot like for real science in theory scientists would be like OK that exists now right.
Right like we because that's the thing science unlike religion unlike things that are you know faith based.
Science is meant to change it's not static it's not fixed as we gather more data we change our theories that is how it works right and that's actually one of the biggest I think complaints I have about.
Science messaging and it's not that the people that do it with doing the science messaging are bad at it is just one of the things that.
Has been missed I think in science education across the board here in the US is that message because during COVID I think that's what drove so many people crazy and I can understand if you don't have that.
That knowledge that science is meant to constantly change right like my best friend is an ER pediatrician she's.
I just talked to her this morning she's in a doctor's without borders mission and Chad she's a badass but she's an ER pediatrician we were in New York City when COVID broke out.
Every day there was something new every day she's like we're seeing this like weird inflammation with these kids.
This is how science works you get more information think like you know pathogens pop up and you know COVID is still surprising people and unfortunately that the public is like well if you don't have the full story we don't want to hear it or we're not going to believe it and the thing is and that's why science.
I understand that when we talk about belief in terms of science is not necessarily like you know believing like a faith but I do think that like this idea of like we need to believe in science is also.
Not the best way to put it because I think science is not to be believed but it's it's a more of a verb than a noun you know I mean it's something that we need to constantly do and be you know a part of and you know engage with.
Because it is going to constantly change good science changes and evolves bad science stays still and will not take in.
You know that's why even like in the field of biological anthropology which studies human variation the differences between humans you know has been predominantly white dudes right and that's a problem because you're going to get the same questions and the same answers.
And this is why you know the more diverse people you have asking questions about themselves rather than people going to those places and being I'm going to ask questions that are relevant to me rather than they're relevant to the people of that culture.
You know and that's why I think you get better science when you're getting more diverse questions you're going to get diverse methodology you're going to get diverse answers because the questions are just different.
Right so I think again we're coming into a time where we're we're I don't know there's a lot of change and I think it's it's it's positive like I don't know if this is too spicy for your for your listeners but one of my favorite examples is just.
I guess 13 months ago a surgeon he is a queer gender affirming peripheral nerve care surgeon out of the Pacific Northwest.
Dr Blair Peters finally counted all the nerve fibers on the human clitoris finally it yes the old number was 8000 right and the new numbers 10281 nerve fibers.
It's ridiculously high but it took that long for them to count and I asked them I was like hey how did we you off 2000 numbers what's with that 8000 number and he said oh they basically said that the.
Those studies were based on livestock studies it wasn't even a human woman's clitoris it was.
Yes it was a cow I know but this is the thing and so so even like trans care is now leading to answering big questions that we should know about because that will actually help the science for people that have had genital mutilation and things of that sort and to better understand it.
Also for just you know in better care across the board for for men and women and those that are anything in between so anyways it just I just that's an example of why I think you know I totally.
In a broad idea the more more people doing it the better.
No I totally agree.
I think it's important to bring that diversity I have had scholars because my specialty that I focus is biblical stuff right.
So you get a lot of the guys who've been writing for 200 years pretty much in this long train it's like a chain of tradition within critical scholarship even.
Similar and then you get some feminist scholars who come in and then they point out something I've been reading my whole life and I'm like how did I not like pause and take that in for example.
The book of Revelation I always like to bring this up because it's one of the more extreme New Testament apocalyptic texts and in it over and over this author that we suppose is a guy named John on the island of Patmos keeps talking about Rome.
As a female and calls her the whore of Babylon and that the way he's propagandistically speaking to whoever's audience may be I imagine Jewish Christians Christ followers saying do not prostitute with her so like that it's this it's this locker room guy talk kind of like.
You know this is the whore of Babylon meaning evil wicked notice there's so much language in there and I just used to read it on the whore of Babylon you know and yeah with her and like.
Didn't stop because there's a sensitivity to observing certain things and it tells you about the culture and who the people are in a way that you don't really pause and think.
About and then you have to ask yourself the questions of like is this really divine like would the person actually be speaking this way what does this say about this person's perception of their God if they're thinking this way about humans.
So there's all sorts of interesting avenues to explore deeper when someone wearing a different set of goggles brings them to the table and so I'm with you and you know just to highlight that in my own field.
No I mean what am I I just gave a talk and I'm going to be doing I'm doing a science comedy special on on February 16 at the crow but one of the big parts of the talk is talking about bonobos so our closest genetic relatives are chimpanzees and bonobos and.
We share common ancestor with them six million years ago and then around two and we went on our evolutionary trajectory and they went on theirs and then about two million years ago one to two million years.
With the formation of the Congo River system they split so chimpanzees are on one side of the river bonobos on the other and there's far more chimps than bonobos bonobos are only found in Democratic Republic of Congo which has been pretty rife with a lot of socio political warfare so they.
It's hard to study them in the country but they have right and but it's interesting because I Dr Amy Parish is one of the.
You know world's leading experts in bonobos and I interviewed her last year and I this is the deal so chimpanzees in bonobos we share 99% of our DNA with them we are very closely related.
And they are exceptionally closely related and you know even more so and chimps bonobos used to be called pygmy chimpanzees they look just like them but they have very different ways of dealing with conflict now.
I think we talked about this like during our first chat chimpanzees will deal with aggression or deal with conflict through address aggression and violence oftentimes bonobos though have a different way of dealing with tension instead of fighting it out they like to fork it out.
And not just males and females females will do you know GG rubbing with each other males will do sword fights which the scientific term is penis fencing.
And it's kind of a bit of a free for all right and it's not like every freaking second of the day but this is just the way they deal with tension and it's and it's funny because you know like I used to be on dating sites and I would put down that I was a primatologist and you know.
More often than not it was dudes that would be like so your primatologist have you heard about bonobos you know which I knew what they were getting at right and I was like that's awesome that you like that and I'm and everybody kind of if anybody who knows about bonobos is like I wish humans were like that you know I wish we could just like you know settle it with more amorous ways.
But bonobos are actually even though there's still patch a local meaning the male stay in the group because usually that would male stay on a group when whoever stays in the group usually has better social bonds.
Like think about it if you stay in your hometown with all your bros that you grew up with you bro down with though your bro skis are going to have real tight bonds and you might have punch ups and like form little coalitions and have little fights but at the end of the day you've spent a lot of time with them.
The females don't so they kind of have more they don't have a cohesive bond that the males do but bonobos they're very unique they actually females do have a very cohesive bond and not only that they are female dominant.
So the ladies run the show in bonobos and it's really interesting because usually when a female comes to a new group you know you can be really scary imagine going to a new school when you're in high school and you're like I don't know who to sit with and but bonobo females.
Amy Parish had found would go find the highest ranking female.
The oldest highest ranking feet the one that just run in the show and basically show her the best two weeks of her life right and that is how she would solidify her spot in the group but it's interesting when Amy Parish did like you know.
Publish these results which were very widespread across multiple zoos that had bonobos it was seen in the wild and the zoos and captivity so on and so forth she was met with a lot of hostility a lot of hostility.
As you can imagine a lot of male academics were not happy with this and they you know and even like recently when I posted about it they're like a guy said well there.
No it's co-dominant males are dominant too but you should know that males then there are dominant males in bonobos but their ranking is dependent on the ranking of their mom.
So imagine like your mom if your mom's high ranking you are going to be pumped up the ladder and not only that but moms will play wing women to their sons they'll try to get their sons laid by the highest ranking females that are not themselves right.
So like the ladies who absolutely run the show and my favorite was that dudes were the response was this is rather than female dominance it is male deference the males are letting the ladies think they're running the show.
So that's what some male scientists are pushing back that are like they're obviously not liking the way that the research is going.
And it's hilarious because any other species or any other group any other yeah any other species that had similar you know like look at any sort of male dominance they don't go oh no it's it's female deference.
You know and also by the way when they say male deference some of these males were getting beat up by the females and not like and that's the thing is there is violence but not like gravely injured violence with chimpanzees they are insanely violent with each other.
We're meeting each other and stuff.
Yes that does happen yeah.
Yeah and my favorite way the way she determined it oh god it's so funny it's so like funny but also like not funny but like she found that you know males were showing up with these injured males and captivity's would have these injuries and she's like they were like why do they have these injuries.
They're not you know they're not housed with other males like what's going on and they realize it was the females and it was females that were kind of keeping them.
You know in in line if they would get a tap if they would start getting physical with them they would gang up and be like no we're not doing this.
And so that's how they realized that it was the ladies that were actually kind of keeping the males in line and then beyond that females get first crack at the food and the males will actually offer sex in exchange for food in some cases.
In some cases yeah so you're seeing a full and these are our closest genetic relatives chimpanzees and bonobos are close you know and bonobos are at equal distance with us.
So but some argue that it's not dominance or it's not a power structure because there's no you know they're not ruling with an iron fist and my thought is maybe power is different.
Right.
In this case like why power doesn't have you know like there's you know.
Iron throne with a with a towering tower around in a sector in our hand in order to have power right.
No I mean you know as a father that sometimes just saying I'm very disappointed in you is far more cutting or even just sitting quietly in the dark staring at your kid is scarier than yelling or like you know hit it you know I mean.
Sometimes silence sometimes silence is like whoa dad's not you know what I mean so yeah I can relate to that I just it sucks that there's so much pushback and not.
I just don't get it I don't get it for me but then again I'm the kind of guy who.
Who wants to bring in new ideas wants to test you know limits wants to explore and be open to various ideas that are not always ones we've always had and that's why like I'll hear these things like Bigfoot right an idea that I never really took serious.
Even when I was in my believing in all sorts of crazy stuff kind of phase in life.
I didn't really take it that serious then there's Loch Ness then there's Chupacabra then there's what we can list UFOs right now and there's underground war.
You go and listen to certain people tell their testimony about with great grades and greens and their ground and dudes melted his hand off with his hand blaster and like I mean the the level of which there are various things out there and.
I'm sitting there going at some point you kind of draw a line yeah but it's some of this stuff's common sense to me and what are we doing why are we fighting these ideas I don't know I don't know.
Yeah I mean the good news is I think.
That is a it is a loud minority you know what I mean like that was that was really going up against.
Amy Parish and I think.
And again like science that's what makes science so great is like you know obviously we got new data we look at it and kind of have to take that into consideration as well so you know but I do.
I like I also did a product I did a story about an animal sanctuary I volunteer out where there was a love triangle between three female monkeys.
You know one like one initiating and going back and forth but like you know that also I that I kind of dovetailed that into a new study that came out with macaques in a coyote Santiago.
Where they found that there might be an evolutionary benefit to them because there was a lot of male on male sex and they found that they those that did that had slightly more offspring.
Because you know if you butter the biscuits of the dude that's the alpha they might let you have more access to females so it's like you're kind of like.
You know killing two birds with one stone you're getting your rocks off but at the same time you're going to also father more children right you know and this is.
Yeah so you know I mean and again this is like early data coming out but it's you know and it's not a huge difference in kids but it's not her but point is it's not hurting the amount of kids because.
You know it's the Darwinian paradox of like it you know homosexuality doesn't serve a purpose because it doesn't lead to more kids well what if it does what if it does you know.
So just just one interesting point on that because we're dealing with primates and you're bringing up the fact that these factors that we find in our own societies today.
Which in our other interview which will come out it's edited you know it's going to be edited and stuff is that our morals what we do and how we behave this is not new.
Fam like there's primitive versions of this found in nature that precede us and the behavior of our ancestors or even our cousins such as the chimpanzees bonobos etc.
And one of those things is people will say the modern definition of homosexuality homosexuality is like lifelong always only attracted to same sex and so I imagine there's that as well.
But there are other there's more fluid stances in nature in which they're kind of like hey I can get more females by doing this very thing.
And notice it's so taboo to even bring up some people already I guarantee you in the chat in the chat.
One that was like my God this is so wrong and I was like I mean honestly like let's be real that the big part of our life is you know.
Because I look and this is my mom and I it's really funny my mom my mom is a scientist I mean technically she's psychologist you know she's got her PhD in psychology she's not a psychologist she has her PhD in psychology.
But she's a professor many many years and of course it's hard to watch her daughter talk about sex and sexuality and and you know do videos about the clitoris and even like not just you know counting the nerve fibers there was a I interviewed a scientist she's amazing.
Oh my God one of my favorite interviews ever that she works with death adders the snakes and found that they not only have one clitoris they have two devils door bills you know I mean like stuff like that really cool stuff.
My mom's just like oh God you know because you don't want to see your kid talking about sex she always say it's not always about sex and I'm like well in biology mom.
It kind of right you know like survival of the fittest which is also I can be misconstrued in many different ways fitness generally means the ability to have kids like it's about passing down your genes which you know can happen in many different.
Different many different ways but like we were just talking about the you know the potential of being with other dudes could help other dudes get more ladies.
But yeah I mean I would talk to my even my class you know about you know when it comes down to it resources when we talk about finding resources as as as animals and humans resources are food and mates generally in the natural world.
You know so I joke it's food and fucking you know and I but it's like you know finding food is very important and and for you know males they want to find mates and females are very much you know like in the natural world often.
I hate the word natural is not necessarily fair because every you know we're part of the natural world but in non human animals you know I'm finding a mate can be really tough and that's you know a really interesting thing that we're going to see with climate change and I don't know how your viewers feel about climate change.
But I am a firm believer that it's it's happening and you know a lot of it is human cause but we're seeing a lot of hybrids now because animals can't find mates you know there's there's low availability of their mates so they're there's a lot more hybrids so like.
Grizzly and or yeah so they're called grower bears or Pizzley bears when you know grizzly bears and polar bears get together.
They'll have offspring they'll they'll mate wolves and coyotes will have koi wolves you know so we're seeing this as a response to low resource availability and by resource I mean they can't find mate so you know we're seeing sort of evolution in action you know because of anthropogenic climate change.
Wow.
There's so much to explore on this I mean they're in it's interesting to watch reactions from people you can tell in the audience are allergic to ideas.
And like I'll give you one example someone said above that they want everyone all the males to be gay or something like that they want all men gay.
Like you know that you can see the reaction to some of this idea how normal so like I guess yeah in your own words because you're the one who's presenting this it's important to point out.
You're not suggesting you want everyone to be gay you're saying people and they're going to do things that they do why are we judging why is this a problem.
I mean no reaction that this is a signal that there is a problem that you're bringing this up right that you're even talking about it it offends certain people who have sensitivities I imagine so.
I struck a nerve.
I struck a nerve and I sincerely ask those that are upset like why why did I strike a nerve when I'm just talking about I'm literally talking about science and I'm talking about science it's been done recently right right and we do know that.
A lot of things exist on a spectrum you know sexuality gender sex race I mean we know that race there's no biological basis to racial classification.
We're 99.9% the same across the human species but yeah when you when I strike a nerve I know that and I try to come at it with compassion as much as I can even though it's frustrating sometimes because like I do identify as.
And somebody made a comment about my rainbow earrings earlier and I was like really like.
Represent Noah come on are you triggered by rain but I know exactly like I but like but also you gotta ask like who is the snowflake who and I hate that term but like who is the sensitive one like I'm just talking you know and I'm not I don't if you if you want to be hyper like if you're very straight that's fine I don't care like I'm not.
I'm just talking about the science that's being done and also just because.
When there when things are not represented in the world like for instance if what is on television or what's in the media is not represented representative of what is out there.
Imagine what it must be like to be a small child and there's a lot of them more than you think.
That are probably struggling with thoughts of you know either homosexual bisexual thoughts that are like I don't know what to do and if they see that it's OK and it's accepted.
That takes away a lot of shame even when I was a little girl I didn't realize.
I didn't know that bisexual was even a thing I thought you were either I thought I believed in the binary like I you know we were taught in the binary is so kind of silly anyways like nothing's just good bad black or white you know.
There's always shades of gray right but I didn't know that and it wasn't until I was watching and my my mom doesn't remember this but I like you know when you're a kid you're like I remember everything and I was.
You know because it's so it was it really struck a nerve with me when I was watching George Michael's freedom video which if you remember 1990 freedom.
I'm a little bit older so like essentially it's George Michael singing about coming out but it's being lip synced by these gorgeous gorgeous like OG supermodels so it's like.
I think it's like Christie Tirlington Linda Evangelista Naomi Campbell like the hottest of the hot early 90s supermodels like gorgeous ladies.
And I also thought George Michael was so hot and I didn't realize was coming out anthem because you know I was like 1011 and I'm listening to it and I'm dancing and my mom comes in and I'm like he is so hot and she's like he is bisexual and I was like.
And she didn't say it like she was just kind of stating it it wasn't like there was no value to it like she wasn't saying it was bad but I was like what the hell is bisexual and it all kind of.
It was like you know that those like gifts where you see like all the numbers in the you know you're like oh my God I finally figured out the equation like that's what I am because I had.
I actually was really scared that I was gay and then it was going to ruin my life when I was like eight years old and all of a sudden it made sense that you can like both and it's not you're not going to go to hell and there's no.
You know because I grew up going to parochial school and I had some religious teachers that were actually much more conservative than I was I was at a Presbyterian school.
But point being like you know I think if you don't have that and then same with like for instance you know young like black girls that are like seeing women kicking ass on television shows and realizing that like there's a place for them in these different worlds whether it's stem or arts or you know when it's not we're not when they're not seeing themselves represented.
You know it leaves a mark and so again why does it upset you that we're just talking about something that.
Can I cut you off for one second and just point out something the chat right some few people you can tell are more conservative and that's their prerogative I don't tell them they can't be but you can tell that they the whole topic has completely triggered them to the point we should retitle the whole video.
It should be you know like it's like it's it's so a problem and here's the thing like you discovered something about yourself.
Me finding out this is normal that people do this some people are born with this particular attractions with particular affinities it doesn't change what I've always naturally you know had an attraction to but I was hiding that I had something that was.
You know socially taboo don't bring it up change the topic you woke person you know things like that then I could imagine those people that that minority of people.
Or just I don't know why are differently I'll use the term wire differently that they are not socially acceptable you should shut your mouth why are you even going to bat for these people is how it seems that pushback gets and why is this relevant to Bigfoot.
I think is an important point to bring back is that we're dealing with primates we're trying to just discuss whether or not this guy exists this gets into superstitions and beliefs and and even the idea of is this a.
Primate that never went extinct that we're seeing remnants of their just out of the peripheral view of our eyes and we're just it's out there somewhere and then how does that connect with primatology anthropology.
In humans I think is an important discussion which is why you went this direction and I don't know I'm going to bat for you a little bit here just to point out that.
Well I mean Bigfoot is gay.
I should point that out.
Please point it out like piss them off.
No I mean it's it's so silly.
Well I mean I think I think I saw somebody got upset I think when I brought up the clitoris thing because they're like of course they're bringing up gay you know and I was like well I mean but this is an example of why you know representation matters you know I mean and that's also.
Even if we want to bring it back to Bigfoot there were biological anthropologists that were getting involved in Bigfoot.
Research because they believed you know what I mean and and that also changes the field and it kind of gives it a little bit more street cred you know so I mean I don't know I think that.
We're going to be looking for a new species of of of hominin hominin you know that's along the lines of a human they probably deal with the same sort of struggles that we deal with including.
Sexuality and gender and all these sorts of things you know what I mean like Bigfoot very I now I'm now I want to go back and write my pilot and make.
I think a lot of people have repressed fillings and in a lot of times yeah one thing with their mouth but who knows what their search engine looks like I mean honestly this is how I saw an interview I had the other day.
If you presuppositionalist they asked a question I'm not even going to say on my channel just pure gross it was the idea of like Epstein stuff.
What I do that to save my own family right and they're trying to get me into a moral pickle right because we're doing morality where's it come from they're trying to say it all comes from God and that we should have.
And I'm sitting here talking about subjective morality and how I would how I personally imagine in a life or death absolute survival of the fittest situation how I would navigate these very not black and white gray areas of morality and issues and things.
But I thought by their question sub like subconsciously what are they what are they looking at when no one's around while they're mocking and scoffing or rejecting and literally I mean asking you someone who studied this stuff especially since you're sensitive in the sense of recognizing social groups that are not the majority and that are.
Often times persecuted or even neglected or hey shut them up they have this agenda to make us realize that what they're doing is normal how dare them try to make us us binary you know traditional views of life how dare them let us know that they exist and that it's a normal thing in the world.
To me it's like I just want to ask you we've discovered that people are born like attracted to same sex like this is not like a just a choice this is an actual scientific thing and it can change yeah yeah I mean well a couple of things I definitely think this is nothing new.
One thing I want to drive home to anyone who has an issue what we're talking about is nothing new right like I mean come on it was good enough Greeks good enough for the Romans you know what I mean like I'm on now let's talk promiscuous gay hordes.
Nothing new or even you know gender fluid is nothing new it might be something that is new to you and that's fine you know that doesn't mean you have to accept it or love it but at the same time just like let people let people live.
What we're seeing now too because I've done a lot of shows recently about looking so I'll put this out in the world right now at least 1500 species has been I have been documented engaging in homophobic or my god I'm butchering my own sentence sorry there's a siren right out my door.
So around the world 1500 species have been documented engaging in homosexual behavior right and those are just the ones we've seen but only one species has been documented engaging in homophobic behavior and I like to bring up the irony that that species isn't the genus homo.
But why is that right it's nothing new we see it in animals all the time you know if you have a dog you know that if Dick sniffing was an Olympic sport they'd be bringing home gold every time I mean you take your dog to a dog park they're constantly you know doing the thing.
But it's nothing new right.
And so that's okay if it upsets you but just keep in mind that this the discomfort that you might be feeling just try to maybe think for this is I say this to with with with with.
With with I'm trying not to try to too much into this territory but with like white folks like myself that like have a hard time with talking about privilege and what that might mean or are speaking out against something like yeah I always say like when it comes to you know sexual harassment or abuse or even racial
racist comments or even things that are like really just insensitive like call it out you know it shouldn't shouldn't just be on the person that's feeling it but even if it's uncomfortable for you think for a second how uncomfortable that person that has been living that life.
Or living that you know in that stigma for all these years has been going through so might as well pick up that burden and you know call it out in the moment but also you know when it comes to seeing representation of you know different people you know it's about time because again it's been there.
Far longer than any of us have been on earth right and also right now we there's been Gallup polls about those that identify as part of the lbgt qia community in different generations and right now so I think it's it's been doubling right like I think gen X which I'm
Jen I'm Jen X I think Jen X is 5% Millennials are about 10 but Gen Z is at 20% and some could ask are we getting queer or are people more comfortable being themselves.
It could be a factor both right like there could be both playing but I think a lot of it is I mean you know yeah I mean I think a lot of it is also just if you're if you're no longer going to be stigmatized and and ostracized for being who you are right.
And some people might be exploring like they don't know and they're testing out you know the waters, so to speak so that might be something that's going on there, I just.
I appreciate what you said there because I've taken some stances in the not too distant past with having someone on my channel that actually said some things and has a very very staunch conservative view and constellation Pegasus in the chat actually brought it up earlier with Robert price which I've over and over.
Like all I'm going to just remove those comments if you're trying to promote this guy in constellation stay tuned because I've been actually wondering whether or not I should make this video.
But I have a video that I'm going to be putting out I'm going to share screenshots with you and I hope that you can at least understand as someone has been sticking around this channel watching for a long time.
I hope you can understand when I see people who actually are making racist memes and making racist comments toward Jews, not just I sympathize for Palestinians in light of the war I'm talking Jews are enemies of all mankind.
And this is rolling out the red carpet carpet for things like Nazism.
Yep, when you see that I hope when you watch that video you'll second guess or at least wonder why I'm so much a fan of this guy Robert price and maybe understand Derek may have had an intuition and understood.
Hey, this was a line he needed to draw to get away and I'm going to present that evidence for everybody to see for themselves who the new bed fellow he is now in bed with using a metaphor here.
But the guy that yeah like the guy he's doing videos with and the people who are jumping on board to attack me.
You're going to see something about them and I hope as a good human being someone who should see that what happened with the Holocaust should see racism is a bad thing would draw that line but some people.
Some people just don't give a shit.
They let all flowers bloom racism anti-Semitism as long as gays aren't allowed to be gay or let's not talk about trends or you know these kind of things like how far do you want to go with your conservatism to realize like some of these people who say they're not racist.
Birds of a feather flock together and it continues to gravitate to them.
So I'm going to show you guys some stuff here soon sorry we derailed to that but I think it's important to emphasize that in light of the reactions to the fact that you're bringing up what is so common in nature, including our own species of species in the term of just saying homo homo sapiens so like.
Anyway, how does this relate to Bigfoot in your estimation.
Well again like I think like I mentioned I think having more diverse and inclusive like voices asking questions especially like this was actually this made me laugh I found my old Bigfoot bounty.
A sheet of breaking down all the teams and most of them let's be real they were white they were all white but there was a team it was a father son they were awesome and I remember when I got the sheet.
It had their nicknames for each of the team like the Southern Squashes Squatchers the Southern you know the the Bigfoot does or whatever like they just all these different cute names.
And when I got to the black team they were called team chocolate.
And I lost mush it.
I was like, nope, nope, I'm not okay with it until I found out that that was actually a family name.
Because I was like, no, I do not I do not feel comfortable about this how dare you and it would end up being like I was like I feel a lot better.
But you know, we did have an indigenous team they were called the green giants because our last name is green and they're too massive like six foot five dudes.
And you know, and getting the their diverse take on Bigfoot because they were indigenous so they came in and they had their own version of what Sasquatch was they would they would burn sweet grass to attract Bigfoot.
I like to think it was weed because that women we would all benefit it.
Although we did by the way we shot the show in Glenwood Washington for a big chunk of it.
Northern California.
And yeah, and then near Mount St. Helens but like when we're in North Calo was really afraid that we were going to stumble on some pot farms and they someone would get shot.
But anyways, I mean why does it matter. I don't know I think because I mean we're talking about
Bigfoot's behavior, you know, I mean, I don't know is big.
What's again Bigfoot's reproductive strategy is he's like a macaque and getting down with other.
Yeah, I mean that's not not all macaques are doing that that was just one study but like, you know, again, sexuality is part of behavior, right.
You know, I got to help just add to the icing on the cake that you're laying out here.
In our last interview and people will see that we go into a long morality kind of question and ordeal.
And I think this topic, it gets into that vein of morality and what what we should or shouldn't do how should we behave and what is normal is it harming that kind of stuff.
And that's why I think this is relevant because when we're hunting this phantom figure we call Bigfoot whether it be yeti or whatever.
In a way, it's this monstrous thing and in some cases benevolent just like other humans, we have monstrous humans.
And then we have benevolent humans and it's a reflection of ourselves, I think in many ways.
There's a mystery to it, a constant hide and go seek battle of trying to find this this creature.
And you're using science and tools and understanding the various groups within the primates to try and do your best to still man their position but also explore.
Is there some creature out there we call Bigfoot and in order to do so, there's diet, there's sexuality, there's how these groups behave and act.
And I think that because we've had taboos in our society because of religion in our particular political models or whatever it might be.
These are not comfortable topics for some or they just don't like it because they themselves aren't in those categories in some way, shape or form.
So I think empathizing is the key when we're exploring these topics, having an open mind, you don't even have to be the things you're open minded and seeing other humans have.
It comes back to one thing, just making this point and then you feel free to take it wherever you want.
When I got clean and sober off of opiates and alcohol, my first initial reaction early on was to say alcohol is bad, opiates are bad, like everyone should stop doing these things because of what they did to me.
Yeah.
And then you grow up a little, you mature, you get some time and you realize, man, these people know how to drink like normal individuals.
And by the way, that amputee over there, if it worked for opioids, that person who's dying of cancer, if it worked for opioids.
And so you start to realize it's not black or white.
There's a gray area and sometimes it's bad and sometimes it's good depending on the circumstance.
That philosophy, that rule of thumb, I apply in everything.
And so I think in this case, you should also be trying to mature with it at least.
Yeah.
And like I said, I think when we first met, I really commend you because I grew up, you know, I know a lot of people who did not survive that.
So I mean, I'm just very grateful that you were able to.
And yeah, I get it.
I lost my best friend to heroin overdose and I hated, you know, I remember I had a good friend that was dating a drug dealer at the time that it happened and I was so mad.
I just, I just thought everything was, you know, I just saw it very black and white that drugs were drugs are bad.
You know what I mean?
It was the same time South Park was big too.
So it was just like drugs are bad.
And but now I see it very differently.
And I honestly, I'm all about the legalization and education around drugs.
I did Don Fugel saying show last night.
He has a serious XM show.
We ended up getting into a riff or a rant about how like drugs should be legal.
All drugs should be legal to everyone 75 and up.
You know what I mean?
Like, yeah, like grandma should be able to slam heroin if she wants, right?
She's earned it, you know, but like, no, I think education, teaching people how to responsibly imbibe.
And if they can't, they can't.
Like I don't drink and there's a good reason why I don't, you know.
So it's like, but I also don't, I would never in a million years be like, no, you know, if I know I can't be around it, which I don't feel that way.
But I know people who do feel that way, then that's their prerogative to not be around it.
But I would never impose that on anyone, you know, like I go to Burning Man and I've done that.
My first time doing it without drinking was really hard, you know, because it, but I just, I was cool.
It's fine.
But, you know, again, I have a very close experience with that to all these other issues.
And what blows my mind is how normal those things are in every other society, but ours.
Yeah.
God forbid we, we start talking about those things, you know.
So it's like really, really strange when we're trying to be scientific minded.
And often the viewers that watch my channel in all other areas, typically are scientifically, you know, think your thinkers on these things, but then it gets real sensitive and becomes bad.
Open up this topic.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sorry if I'm not, I'm not here to, I didn't come on here to, and like, again, like when you were like, what does it have to do with Bigfoot?
And I kind of thought about it.
I was like, well, it doesn't necessarily have to do, you know, like we just kind of went down a rabbit hole.
But it's, I'm just surprised that it would upset folks that I thought, you know, I mean, I also realize and I'm probably going to get dragged for this one.
I live in Los Angeles.
Well, yeah.
You know, I'm amongst, I'm someone actually said last night on one of the comments on from doing last night show, like, I hope the Hollywood filth is swallowed by an earthquake soon.
And which is funny, because today is the 30th anniversary of the Northridge earthquake where I grew up in Northridge.
So, you know, we slept on the front lawn for a week after that.
But like, I'm used to being called, you know, like all sorts of things for being in California or even when I lived in New York, you know, but, you know, I forget that there are parts of the US, even, I mean, here in California,
for sure, there's a lot of conservative spots that people still have a hard time talking about these, I guess, controversial subjects that are really life subjects, you know.
Yeah.
I think it's, I don't know.
I love talking about them in Bigfoot.
I had to have you on for that because you've done the show.
You were involved in the show.
You are, you know, you're a skeptic, of course, but you're also willing to take any evidence that may come forward.
I just think it's, there's so much overlap when I talk to you about it to belief systems and claims of UFO abductions and I saw Jesus and Elvis appeared to these women.
You know, I mean, Tupac's still alive and like, you know what I mean?
Oh my God.
Yeah.
That pilot that I wrote, there is a, there are Tupac, there's a, Tupac is in it.
Anyways.
Well, you have a tour coming up for those who do.
Yeah, I don't think it's on there there, but if you, if you Google trova, trova trip, I mean, you can find it on Instagram, but I'm in my bio.
If you go to trova trip, Natalia Reagan, you'll see I have a trip to Madagascar that I'm hosting in May, May 29 through June 6.
I love lemurs.
There's lots of, basically, if you're familiar with iNaturalist, I think the iNaturalist page for one of the parks we're going to is 24 pages long.
They have so much endemic flora and fauna.
This particular park, Rana Mifana has over 12 species of lemur.
One of the world's lead lemur experts, Dr. Pat Wright will be there while we're there.
And essentially it's nine days, four different cities, but multiple parks, seeing lemurs, doing a night hike so we can catch the nocturnal ii and mouse lemur.
Fun note about the mouse lemur, they're a highly promiscuous species.
And so during mating season, the males, their testicles will swell very large.
Fun side note.
I don't know if we're going to be there during mating season, but maybe that'll help us find them.
But yeah, there's a lot of really cool opportunity to see wildlife there.
Lots of chameleons, too, if you're familiar with, you know, if you're like, we're into herping, which is, of course, herpetology.
Yeah, and it's going to be a lot of fun.
So the trip is, like I said, nine days, May 29 through June 6.
And I'll be hosting it.
They'll have guides on the ground, but I'm doing one actually the Galapagos first, and I'll be shooting a lot of that.
So you'll get to see how fun it is to travel with an animal expert comedian.
Don't worry.
I won't just be talking about gay animals.
Although some gay lemurs, you know, I'm going to point it out, but it's just going to be talking.
I just dork out over lemurs.
Like I'll talk to you, your ears off about their vertical clinging and leaping and all their different vocalizations and stuff.
It's going to be really fun.
Well, I hope that people who are interested in something like that go explore it.
I think I have the link in the description.
I think you gave it to me before.
Let me double check here.
You have the website.
You haven't.
So if you send it to me, I'll add it in the description.
Yeah.
Right now.
Yeah.
Do that now, please.
I'm going to, yeah, I'll pull it up.
But yeah, it's going to be a lot like I said, it's I'm really, really, really excited.
And if you guys are interested, I, if you're in Los Angeles and I'm doing a show called survival of the filthiest about basically it's kind of a hilarious salacious science show about sex and reproduction.
So I'm going to be talking about, you know, the evolution of sex and the evolution of boobs and butts.
And we're going to talk about ancient DNA and whether or not we got down with Neanderthals.
There's going to be a lot of like really fun that we will talk about bonobos.
So if you're not cool with the queer animals, maybe not the show for you, but that's kind of the stuff we're talking about.
It's going to be, it's going to be a lot of fun.
I hate bonobos now.
Yeah.
It's really funny because like people have a very intense reaction to bonobos.
Like I said, I like men and women and I would be on dating sites and dudes would just be like, Hey, I see you're a primatologist.
Have you heard of bonobos?
Which is like asking a gynecologist.
Oh, have you heard of a virgin?
You know, it's like, of course I know what a bonobo is, but I also know what you mean.
And, you know, again, some people think they're great.
Some people are a little overwhelmed by it.
And I understand, you know, it's a lot of stripping.
I'm putting join her tour.
I'm going to Madagascar.
It's going to be a lot.
I mean, the people that have signed up so far, we have a bee expert.
I'm not even kidding.
This woman is the most phenomenal beef and native California bees too.
So she's like the most badass bee lady.
So and then we have some, I have some good friends from Germany that are coming that are hilarious and amazing.
And it's going to be a good group.
So I hope you can make it.
And also, oh, by the way, I have coupons.
So if you're really interested, just message me.
You can DM me so you can either comment on the don't comment.
Well, maybe if you are, if you are message on Twitter, people message me on Twitter.
I'm just trying.
I want to make sure that I see it.
I'll check.
I'll make sure I check my things.
And if you message me, I do check my requests on my messages.
So if you message me on Instagram, I have $50 and $100.
And right now it's the early bird rate.
So it's 2675 for nine days, which is pretty darn good to go clear across the world.
You do have to buy your flight because, you know, we don't know where you're coming from.
But yeah, and it goes up after, I think I have three more early bird spots left and it'll go up like $100.
So yeah, but I have coupons.
Who doesn't love coupons?
Of course.
Yeah, I'm going to check your, your YouTube at this point.
I want to give people just a second to go ahead and hit.
Yeah.
I do talk about gay animals sometimes.
So please don't hate on me.
I mean, you can.
You can hate.
I mean, I've got thick skin.
I'm from.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But I will be.
I had to dress that.
You know, yeah.
Yeah.
And by the way, I am so Peter has been in the chat.
Peter is amazing of going to go for it.
I'm hurting cats.
I did his show last week and he's helping me kind of set up my live streaming stuff.
And I'll have you on Derek to talk on when I start live streaming because that's something
that I've posted podcasts, you know, for Neil deGrasse Tyson and myself and other folks
and discovery.
So I think live streaming is kind of the way to go to have good conversation, but also,
you know, connect with people that have questions, especially since I'm the next one.
I think I'm going to do Beth Pratt, who is if you know anything about P 22, our mountain
lion here in Los Angeles, who had fortunately passed away December of 2022.
That Pratt was the biggest champion for this damn Cougar and she were both Cougars.
I'm over 40.
She's over 40.
So we joke about we need to do a two Cougars podcast, but we're going to do a little, little
talky talk and she does a lot of she actually is leading the charge and getting the world's
largest wildlife crossing off the ground here in California, just north of Los Angeles over
the 101 freeway.
Essentially, oh, hi.
Thank you so much.
Yeah, so they're basically connecting two big chunks of land where a lot of mountain lions
cross and end up getting killed.
In fact, oh my God, this broke my heart.
We had one bear in the Santa Monica Mountains, one bear named BB 12.
And they caught footage of him walking on the beach in Malibu.
Like this was like, like, you know, talk about Boo Boo the bear.
He was like the Boo Bear and the Boo.
And he unfortunately tried to cross the freeway and got hit.
So they're creating this giant wildlife crossing to hopefully, and it's really fascinating
to I've become friends with the architect.
His name is Robert Rock, which is perfect if you're an architect.
But he, you know, all the things that have to go into creating a wildlife crossing that
is inviting to animals.
Like you have to make sure that the light pollution is not too bad.
You got to make sure the sound.
They have like these really great ways of cutting down the freeway sound.
So it lures the animals to come across the bridge.
Really cool.
So I need to update everybody, letting them see if we've got new subscribers to your channel.
Yeah, 2.24 K.
You're going to be doing live streams.
We're looking forward to hanging out with you and learning more from you.
Let's hit the refresh button.
See if we've done at least 2.25 or 2.
Let's see.
Let me refresh this thing.
2.28.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you so much guys.
I appreciate it.
Yes.
So that's like 40 or so.
Just so far.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And someone brought up an interesting comment up here in the chat.
Brian Stevens, actually.
Thank you for commenting that.
So for those who didn't like the title, which we spoke, I think 45 minutes,
pretty much nothing but Bigfoot Yeti and all this and going into primatology.
And so I say Yeti for some big science, Bigfoot and much more.
So the context of much more is there, amen.
So I'm just saying.
If anyone has any question, I mean, like I have a whole,
I did a whole hour long talk at Tam about Bigfoot.
So like, you know, I have a whole, you know, we could go through all the,
the different vocalizations or the diet and the dentition of Bigfoot.
I'm down, you know, I kind of went where the, we meandered where it went.
Right.
Yeah.
So like I said, I could talk about, you know, and like environmental DNA.
One of the things that I would say is with something that's really cool and unique
about non-human primates is that teeth, for instance, are very much not an indicator
of what they eat.
Their canines at least is as much as it is for like fighting with acts for access
to ladies.
Like for instance, like gorilla males have very large canines compared to females.
I mean, the females have substantial canines, but it's because they're trying.
It's like male male competition rather than, oh, I'm going to go eat,
you know, a deer right now because gorillas, FYI, are primarily vegetarian.
They love to eat bamboo.
They love their bamboo.
And so they actually have, you know, molars.
A lot of times it's the chewing.
And that's also because, you know, they have that sagittal crest, which helps them grind
and chew things.
This, where is that species?
Peranthropus boisei.
This is my favorite hominin right here.
This is Peranthropus boisei.
Discovered by Mary Leakey was called Zingeanthropus.
This is a part of the Peranthropus genus.
There's only about three, well right now, three species in Peranthropus.
It's called to be a dead end genus because it just is not part of our homo lineage.
You know, they were contemporaries.
We're home with homo habilis, but we were not part of the homo genus.
But cool thing about Peranthropus boisei are all the robot.
They're called, by the way, robust hominins because look at these big ass cheekbones.
These are called zygomatics.
And usually, you know, they're basically their big ass cheekbones.
And like I said, with gorillas, they have big grinding teeth.
So you can see this is a 3D print.
So it's not the best.
And I'm not always the best at mirror.
There we go.
Yeah, you can see how big those teeth are.
I don't have a human.
I don't have a.
No, there's one here.
Well, this is homo habilis homo.
So these two lived at the same time.
This isn't.
I'm not very good at this.
Okay.
And I'm like, ah, I used to teach on zoom.
So homo habilis and homo or Peranthropus boisei.
But they, you know, you can see kind of the cana or sort of the molar size is big stark difference.
Peranthropus has big ass molars.
And that's because they were eating hard to grind food.
At first they were named nutcracker man because I thought they were cracking nuts.
But most likely it looks like it was grasses and sedges.
Imagine chewing on kind of like dry grasses.
You got to really grind to get it.
That's where a sagittal crest would come in handy.
And oh, did this get a little nipped?
Oh, no.
This was my Valentine's Day present last year, guys.
My boyfriend took four days to 3D print this.
But then the, you know, the muscles would go up through those zygomatics and attach here.
And it would help them chew up food.
But like, so with big foot, for instance, when I, when I would ask people, like, what does big foot eat?
You know, because I'm sincerely asking, what do you think big foot ate?
And they're like, well, does it have a diet more like a human, like an omnivore, right?
Where we actually have pretty measly canines because we don't have a lot of male male competition for females.
But we also have smaller molars because we eat a lot of more processed foods, cooked foods and things like that.
Whereas, you know, like gorillas and chimps, they don't have, they're not using fire, right?
So they're eating harder to grind food.
So like things like that really do help them kind of better come up with their theories or amend their theories.
You know, looking at diet and teeth and like I did a video.
So one thing I didn't mention is when I did Big Foot Bounty, we had great science on the show.
We had a mobile DNA lab.
We were using environmental DNA.
We were looking at camera traps.
We had people set up camera traps to, to see, you know, these are, these are tactics that conservation scientists use now.
You know, like putting up camera traps to, to basically see cryptic animals, animals that do not like, they're not habituated to humans.
They don't want to be around humans.
You can catch like, for instance, P-22 or mountain lion.
The very first image of P-22 was a camera trap.
Miguel, oh my God, I'm linking on his last name.
He's wonderful.
He's at the Natural History Museum here in Los Angeles.
He caught this image of a cougar booty.
He was like, that is a cat butt and that is not a house cat.
Holy crap, because you have to remember P-22 came all the way from the Santa Monica Mountains, crossed two freeways, the 405 and the 101.
If you're familiar with Los Angeles, you know the gravity of that to make it to Griffith Observatory and had a little tiny home range of nine miles, nine square miles to live.
But anyways, point being, we used all these really cool things on Big Foot Bounty.
We used darting and collaring.
We used, what else?
They did a lot of cool, I mean, like again, like the biting insects and getting the DNA from that was phenomenal.
But we knew that it was not going to get a fair shake on the show because it was a spiked TV.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know, they were actually kind of hoping there would be more human drama because the people, all the contestants on the show got along.
They all liked each other.
So I remember one night they did some alcohol and they were like, come on guys, fight.
And they were like, what?
Like they all were cool, right?
We all were cool.
We all loved it.
I'm still friends, like I said, with most of them.
And but yeah, my point is we knew that science was not going to get a fair shake.
So I produced a series called Talking Shit with Dr. Todd Natalia on YouTube.
And that was back, I started on YouTube in 2005 or six, but making videos of me and my rabbit.
You know, like I didn't do it to do anything, you know, like this, right?
So I think talking shit, if you go in videos, yeah, there might be like a, yeah, a lot of these are old as hell.
Oh yeah.
This was, this was a pitch video to get a bigger budget because we'd been doing it for a few years on like, you know, my tiny little budget.
But we covered things like camera traps, you know, getting a DNA from a turd and what can poop tell you?
Like, you know, basically, I would joke that stool is the perfect tool because stool, when you, you know, when you get a stool sample, you can, and you got to collect it properly.
By the way, like remember when we were talking about how nobody won the 10 million, right?
Because nobody found Bigfoot.
But someone did win 100,000, right?
Because they were the last person standing, the last team standing.
And that was because they, they got along because I think of the other team they were going up against were fighting the whole finale and were like, come on guys.
But it was also about collecting the biomaterials properly to make sure, you know, like we taught them how you put on the glove.
You use your tongue to pick it up, put it in your little Ziploc baggy and whatever.
So that kind of stuff.
But yeah, I did the talking shit show to kind of really teach like locomotion, like the different, because I was another thing.
People would come in and be like Bigfoot walks on.
Bigfoot can walk on two legs, but they could also get on all fours and run really fast.
And I was like, have, and then I'd have to explain that with locomotion, it's usually one or the other.
You can't do both great, right?
Like even chimpanzee, like even, okay, for instance, bonobos.
Again, we talked about our closest genetic relatives and how salacious they can be.
But they're also more grass isle built than chimpanzees.
So they're a lot slimmer and they have longer for, sorry, hind limbs than they do for limbs or, you know, like they are like, they have higher, longer hind limbs than chimpanzees.
So they walk on two legs more often than chimps do.
And it's very eerie and human like, but they're not habitual bipeds, right?
They're not constantly doing it generally.
And so they're much better, you know, on all fours than they are on, on two legs.
And so usually you kind of have to pick one, just like if you got on all fours right now and we're like, I'm going to be a quadruped today.
You know, you probably could do it for like two minutes and you're like, this is dumb.
I hate my life.
I don't want to do this anymore.
You're not going to be efficient.
You're not going to be effective.
You're going to just, everything's going to take forever, right?
So it really doesn't work like we're going to just do one thing and then the next.
Same with like big foot and diet.
Like what does big foot eat?
Is big foot, you know, sometimes they're like, he's a carnivore.
And I'm like, well, okay, then that would affect a lot of things.
Carnivores have very short digestive tracts.
You know, they'd have different teeth, you know, and then if he was, you know, there's no, the only technical carnivore, we call them fauna wars in the primate world.
If you want to pull up a Tarsier, you can.
I wonder if, because only because you'll laugh if you see what a Tarsier looks like.
And you're like, this is like our pretty much our only carnivore in our primate world.
How do you start?
T-A-R-S-I-E-R and they basically eat bugs.
They basically.
I'm going to make you, well, here, let me, I'm going to use the restroom real quick.
And if you want to talk about this, I'm going to bring it up if that's cool.
Sure.
Do this.
I'll talk.
Yeah.
Hi.
Hello.
Oh God.
My eyes are hilarious because they're the ones with the big eyes.
They've got eyes almost as like their eyes are basically their eye sockets are bigger than their, their brains.
Imagine it's like, you know, your stomach's bigger than your, your eyes are bigger than your stomach.
They've got eyes bigger than their brains, but they're, they love, love, love to eat insects.
And that's what makes them, they're called fauna wars.
So they're little, little bug eaters and a lot, and a lot of primates are opportunistic hunters.
Even humans, you know, are omnivores, but like, you know, eating meat every day is a fairly recent thing only because of just availability.
Right.
Like you weren't like if hunter and gatherers weren't guaranteed to find, you know, or hunt or find something every day.
So, you know, like it's a mixture between gathering and hunting and oftentimes gathering would bring in more calories just because it was a guaranteed thing.
But once you had things like, you know, access and being able to harness, you know, use fire for cooking, that opened up a whole new, you know, you can eat root vegetables because eating a raw potato just sounds terrible.
So, oh, I like why is the bald eagle bald?
Technically not bald, just got a white head, just a big old white head.
Let's see.
I'm going to see if we have any questions.
But yeah, Tarsiers are fascinating.
They're also in a funny spot when it comes to primates.
So you've got monkeys, you've got apes, you've got lemurs, which are called strepsurines.
They're kind of in this like weird little kind of off branch over here.
And strepsurines, you know, you, the lemurs you only find in Madagascar.
You got lemurs and lorises.
And then with Tarsiers, they're kind of in this weird, they are in, I'm going to use liminal correctly, finally.
They're in this weird liminal spot where they're not monkeys and apes, but they're not lemurs and lorises.
So in this like little funny, funny spot, but yeah, they are the big carnivorous primates.
But even though they're not that big, they're kind of smallish, smallish.
And a lot of them are nocturnal.
That's why they have those big eyes.
That's awesome.
I know our eyes kind of, well, obviously aren't nocturnal, but we adjust to that.
I imagine that's common in eyes.
Someone asked a question.
What is the verdict on Bigfoot?
Does he not exist or does he exist in your estimation?
Wait, say that again.
Does he, what is the verdict on Bigfoot?
Does he exist or not?
I can't, like again, I would say the probability is directly adjacent to zero.
I mean, that is my diplomatic way of saying highly improbable.
Right.
And at the same time, like again, I would love to be proved wrong.
And then there's this amazing hot yeti named, you know, like Steven, that's just walking
the Himalayas.
Like I would love that.
That personally, I think it's a very wonderful notion.
It'd be really cool to discover like here's this hominid creature still around, you know,
like I would love to find that.
And then we didn't think these people were just seeing things all along or even potentially
all creating the idea.
I do because this is my problem is I've seen how often humans, I'll use the term superstitious.
Yeah.
That's like invented, created or come up with, I'll just say wild things to believe in that
I'm highly suspicious to begin with.
However, if I were comparing like Bigfoot to, and this is just my opinion based on what
I've looked at, like UFOs abducting people and their greens and grays and stuff, I'd
say Bigfoot's more likely.
But then again, you know, I'm not saying there isn't life out in the universe.
I just kind of odd that they can galactically travel the universe and they crash land.
It's convenient.
Yeah.
There's also an argument to be like, oh, well, we haven't found a, I mean, not finding a body
is not totally crazy because if they live in the Pacific Northwest, which is becoming
a fossil or staying in the same place when you die is super rare if you're out in the
middle of nowhere, because, you know, things scavenge and your bones are scattered to the
wind, right?
But, you know, it's convenient to be like, well, because he's an interdimensional being,
you know?
Okay.
Yeah.
That happens.
I've seen that in the chat even.
And I don't think they were there early in the episode when I kind of brought that up.
I think it's convenient God and Bigfoot both get to be unfalsifiable interdimensional beings
who don't, you know, that you can't find.
But, um, yeah, I just thought about that.
I was like, hmm, I'm already cautious.
I'm already biased toward it not being the case because humans make up stuff so much
and we have so many folktales and legends and myths that we invent stories that it's
hard for me to even, unless we found it.
Now, if we found it, I'd be like, damn, okay.
Actually, there's something there, but it would be some form of a primate and it wouldn't
be ridiculous.
It wouldn't be one of these, in my opinion, you know how they have the Carl Sagan, the
the well-known saying that says like, the evidence needs to match the claim.
And that's what I would say.
Yeah.
I mean, even saying like it's a theory is giving it too much weight, you know, because usually
a theory is built on years and years and years of scientific, you know, gathering of, you
know, like gravity, the theory of, you know, that that's a good, you know, we pretty much
know it exists, but like, you know, still theory, you know, but falling on the ground
as it exists all the time, because I'm a klutzy klutzy klutz.
Yeah.
But, you know, again, the reason why I've always, you know, again, I entertain entertain it
because I find it fascinating deeply always have.
I would, you know, there's again a romance to it.
Like I do think it's a and it's a really great opportunity to talk about these things from
multiple angles, like from more of a, you know, spiritual angle from a scientific angle
from a, you know, a history angle from a, you know, oral tradition angle, you know,
I think that's, I think that kind of encompasses, you know, we got to cover so much today, even
though some of it was, you know, going down different paths, I think it still kind of
came back to, you know, Bigfoot is a great unifier in a funny way because there's people
that have opinions.
I think at one point, I can't remember, but it was like more people believed in Bigfoot
than the theory of evolution.
It was something pretty terrifying, but at the same time, I was just like, oh man, you
know, like, at least I can have some conversation with them.
There's, yeah, I could talk about, I feel like I could talk about anything with anyone
then at that point.
Yeah, you're pretty, you're pretty ecumenical.
I'll use it like you're really good at being able to dialogue with people who might have
wild ideas and I can too.
I can have these conversations, but I'm not going to say I don't think like, oh my gosh,
how do we, like, so the other day, this is the perfect time to do this, I guess, because
I haven't done this yet with my channel.
I came across Facebook and there was this image.
In fact, I think what I'll do is I'll share that image.
Oh, I saw Carrie's comment.
Thanks, Carrie Ann.
So this image right here, I told my brother and my brother-in-law are extremely UFO-like
fanatics, right?
Oh, okay.
And so I told him, I was like, listen, I was on my way home.
Ryan, my wife, my partner, she took a picture of this object that followed us all the way
home in the sky and we weren't sure what the hell it was.
I thought maybe it's a weather balloon or something from China.
Like, I started throwing these things out to them.
I gave them a narrative before I gave them the answer.
And they're like, you're bullshitting me, man.
Quit playing games, bro.
I know you're joking with them.
I'm like, no, no, no.
I really don't know if this is like, it's an unidentified object that followed us home
and I couldn't, I don't know what this is.
And they're like scratching their heads going, what the hell is this?
I mean, I've never seen any UFOs.
Like, I've seen the cigar-shaped ones.
I've seen this and that.
Man, I told you you're too skeptical, they said.
So we went to Texas Roadhouse the other night over here, right?
And I said, all right, now is the perfect time for me to lay out something that I've
been hiding for 48 hours and letting you think, because I wanted you to understand
why I'm so skeptical.
And he's like, it was bullshit, wasn't it?
And I'm like, let me explain, let me explain.
I told you this object in the skies, follow me home.
I gave you a narrative a little bit.
I already misled you.
Okay.
But I'm telling you this.
And I think this applies to religion and many, I think this can apply to almost any
claim that you really humans will start building a narrative even if, because our
perceptions are easily deceived.
So I said, look, man, not once when I sent you this, did you look at it and just go,
a bird shit on your windshield?
Yeah.
Like not once did you just go common sense, most basic.
I called it a spy balloon possibly the UFO, follow me home.
Yeah.
I don't know what this is.
Someone might have thought it was an angel.
It's bird poop.
Oh my God.
I played this on him and he goes, let me look at it again.
I'm like, dude, the most common sense basic position is here's my windshield.
It wasn't even my windshield.
I took the image from some other Facebook and I just made it a lesson to him to say,
you say I'm too skeptical.
I say you're not using critical thinking skills enough.
Yeah.
When you're approaching these claims, you're not like, could it be something?
Yeah.
But did he not zoom in?
Cause I mean, like, I don't know, like I would have zoomed in and I'm so skeptical
thing.
People, people send me stuff all the time where I'm like, oh my God.
Yeah.
That's, that's so great.
Oh my God.
I took a picture recently too.
All right.
I was at the Google building in New York.
Well, it wasn't that long.
I was maybe it was actually pre COVID.
Now that I think about it, but I was in the commissary.
They have it's like the, I do you can imagine Google in New York is like so
much food, food everywhere.
It was so cool.
I was, that's to me, like as somebody little, the inner, my inner fat kid was
like, yes, I want to work here.
But I love me some free food, but I sit in the commissary and I looked at it.
It was a beautiful vista of, you know, the, I think you could see the Empire
State and it was just gorgeous.
And I remember there was a reflection in the window that looks very much like a
UFO.
And of course I took a picture of it and I was like, oh my God, they're there.
I just made some joke about like they're out there and everybody was like, holy
shit.
What is that?
I'm like, it's just the reflection of the, it was like a chandelier in the, in
the wind.
You know what I mean?
And it was like, oh my God, it really, it kind of, you know, people will see what
they want to see.
It's, you know, same with so much out there, you know, again, if they, if you
kind of feed them a little bit of the narrative, like that's why this is exactly
why when Coyote Peterson posted that dumb video about look at this, not look at
this non-human primate that I found in the Pacific North, this new non-human
primate that I found in the Pacific Northwest, you know, because again,
he didn't say it was Bigfoot.
He didn't say that, but you knew what he was, you know, and then of course,
and then I got attacked big time, you know, by like, oh, you don't know what
you're talking about.
And he, how could he know?
And I was like, and he knew what he was doing.
You know, and anybody with any primate, any with any, because he calls himself
an animal expert.
And I was like, you know, of course he knew what he was doing.
Right.
But also you call yourself an animal expert.
You're not, you know, and you don't want to grill a skull.
Looks like, you know, maybe rethink the things.
Not that you have to know every skull out there.
They're certain, like, you know, I'm not going to know everything either,
but like, you know,
I do.
And I think your point is like, there's our mind.
It's like people who do this know that we're going to connect dots that
aren't there necessarily.
That's why I fed them a lie up front saying this is what this is because
he was like mocking at my skepticism.
You're too skeptical, man.
We're going to time travel and we're going to be able to do this and that.
And I'm like, I don't believe it till I see it kind of person.
Right.
At this point, like I need better data is my point.
It's not necessarily just seeing it.
But I'm saying I have.
I'm way more cautious about things that aren't normal every day things
happening like that.
And so he jabbed at me and I did that.
The other thing I thought about was this, this is in the whole beliefs thing
in antiquity in the Greek world.
They had a lot of narratives, a lot of stories about gods and humans that
had turned into gods.
Their bodies going missing.
So it's a very well known trope in the Greek and Roman world that human
mortal people that went missing became a God.
And this is like ubiquitous in the Greek and Roman world.
I mean, you, if you were to become a God, your physical body needed to
not be here anymore.
So you were teleported or transported to Mount Olympus, to heaven.
And it was such a theme within the mythos of Greece and Rome that people
in real life, I imagine, tried to imitate having the bodies go missing.
Alexander the Great, they say there's a narrative where Alexander the Great
tries to drown himself into a river.
So the river would take him off and then people can't find his body.
What's that mean?
He's become a God.
Yeah.
And so the question comes to Jesus, did the disciples still his body
because they wanted to make it to where he became a God?
Or is this part of the myth?
We don't know whether or not that's the case or if it's just the myth of the
well-established trope in narratives that people's bodies are missing.
It's just the point of that's the, that's how I would think today versus,
well, he really did.
He really did transform into the celestial being and stuff.
Did you watch the leftovers?
What's that?
It was a show that was on, was it on Showtime?
Justin Thoreau is in it.
It's, it's, it's essentially kind of like a, it's so funny.
I need to watch it.
I would like to kind of go back and watch it again.
I watched it in 2018, but it's basically a bunch of people just disappear.
And it's kind of a revelation type story about like where it was just the rapture
and then the people that left, were they the, were they the, were they the chosen ones
and where the ones left in the, you know, liminal state of hell.
Right.
You know, sort of limbo purgatory, you know, and it's, yeah, it's a really
interesting idea, but I wonder, I would wonder your take on it.
I haven't seen it.
Yeah.
You and me have to talk again and I'm going to.
Yeah.
So we've gone two hours.
I have all over the place.
People, please subscribe to her YouTube.
If you want to go on tour with her, it's in the description, Instagram,
Twitter, follow her, message her.
And she's got coupons.
So don't forget coupons.
Mama's got coupons.
I also, someone Peter asked about my dog.
I can go grab her.
Do you, do people want to see my pug?
Yeah.
Let's do that.
We'll close out with that.
I'll see if my legs still work.
I hope everybody's enjoyed the discussion.
We mainly focused on Bigfoot and then we wandered off into different
conversations and so we're back, I guess, to the end wrapping this up.
So I appreciate everybody tuning in.
Subscribe to her channel and.
All right.
Oh, let me make you full screen.
Oh, this is raisin.
She is.
We think she's a dog.
We're not a hundred percent sure she could be a walrus.
Or a squirrel in a ferret costume.
Say hi, raisin.
I just woke her from slumber.
She's very, she's most annoyed raisin.
Say hi to everyone.
She's also boneless.
She has no bones.
She's a gelatinous sack.
Look.
Oh God.
Sand.
She's cut.
Oh my God.
Can you believe this was once a wolf?
What the hell happened?
And oh God, if you guys ever want to be totally freaked out, Google pug skull.
Yeah, raisin.
It's absolutely terrible what lies underneath your flesh.
Pugs skulls are terrifying.
Really?
Yeah, I know.
I might, she's a rescue.
So, you know, I, I don't like when dogs don't have noses because it's not nice to them.
They can't fully, you hear her breathing is her snoring, you know, rivals my partner.
She's, wow.
Oh, but anyways, yes.
There you go, Peter.
I know he was like, where's raisin?
I'm like, this is, see, look at this sack of beans and her 10 nipples.
She's this color to calm her 10 titties.
I really appreciate you and the pug joining us today.
This was really fun.
I want to do more.
We can definitely go and dive into various other topics and let me know if anyone signs
up.
It makes me feel good to know that I'm helping the Canadian people.
Thank you.
I really appreciate it.
Yeah.
And to folks, I think someone said like, she already told someone said something like,
oh, she says Bigfoot was gay.
I don't think I have to preface this or explain, but that was a joke.
I took you serious.
I'm sorry.
I would like Bigfoot to be a big lesbian personally.
That would make my life so happy.
Oh my God.
Well, my name is Marge.
I've been hiding from humanity for 300,000 years in the Pacific Northwest came over on
the Bering Strait.
Yeah.
Well, thank you so much for your time.
And I hope everybody has a wonderful day.
You too.
Thank you, everyone.
Have a good one.
Bye.
