We are
MythVision welcome back to MythVision podcast. I have Dr. Joseph AP Wilson with me today
We're gonna be talking a little bit about Star Wars, but please
Introduce yourself and tell us what do you have for us today? So, um, I'm an anthropologist by training
Um, and I teach in three different programs. I teach anthropology. I teach religion studies and I teach history
Um, and one of my master's degrees is in Asian religion
So and I'm really my work deals with a lot of different areas
But one of the main things I do is like long distance interaction east-west interaction
So I'm interested in like the way
the way that religions are related to other religions over
the medieval period a lot and so, um
So this kind of was interest that I've had since I was you know for decades
Since I was in graduate school in Asian studies
um
So I'm here to talk about what I think is an
Unappreciated little linguistic thing that connects the force religion Jediism in honor of Star Wars day May 4th
Um that connects the force religion to a medieval Buddhist Christian hybrid heresy
called Manichaeism
Founded by the prophet Mani in third century Babylon
Um, and so he's the founder of this incredibly
important syncretic
Religion that is probably I always tell my students that this is the most important religion that most people have never heard of
It was um like for a thousand years. It was one of the more popular
Minority religions in the Silk Road, right?
So basically along the overland trade routes routes of Eurasia. It was a major
Religion not a minor religion and it served as kind of a filter between eastern and western religions because it was
Chameleonic and from the perspective of the western religions. It was a western religion
And from the perspective of the eastern religions
It was an eastern religion. So it was Buddhist. It was a form of Buddhism for Buddhists
and a form of Christianity for Christians
so in particular places like in
The the Uyghur cognate of 8th and 9th century
Western what's now western china, but what was then an independent?
Central asian kingdom
it was um, so uh, the the there was actually a Uyghur theocracy there in some of these major economic hubs
of the central Eurasian trade routes because if you're like a
Merchants there it would be cool to have a religion that would
You could relate to the eastern and western trading partners as you know co-religionists even though they're not actually
Co-religionists with each other via manicheism
You know, you can you can have like, you know, this sort of solidarity with all of your
Constituents so that so that yeah, so it's it's one of these quintessentially central asian
religious systems, but as a result of that it transformed ideas that then could diffuse westward or eastward
And influence the main religions that were not technically that closely related to each other right right and so
Star Wars religion george lucas in an interview in the new york times in the 1990s said that he's a buddhist Methodist
Right, he claims a kind of a buddhist christian
And and there's all kinds of
Ways that the jedi religion and the force religion are like a merger between buddhist and christian ideas
Like the virgin birth and you know, there's various parables that like come and echo through the story walking on water is something
I think yeah, right. Yeah, and yeah like that like
The whole scene when when luke has to lift the x-wing out of the swamp and and
Yoda says you didn't believe and that's why you failed it's just like like
Christ lecturing peter about his lack of faith when he like walks a little bit on the water and that goes
Falls in the water. That's it's very much like that a version of that storyline or with luke in the role of
peter and yoda
Acting like christ, right? So there's like a number of these little
tidbits that show that it's kind of a buddhist and christian
Marriage let me know if I need to bring up any
Lines by the way, let me know if I ever need to bring any slides up. So oh, yeah
So you can start the slideshow at any time. Okay
So, uh, thank you to brian reedy who gave me permission to use his awesome little japanese style woodcut image of yoda
levitating himself
So
There was a period as I would say in in around the third century in persia when you have early
missionary buddhism and early missionary christianity overlap on the
Greco persian frontier buffer zone, right?
So in other words where hellenistic influence and persian influence are both
major
And you have coming out of north india and into central asia. You have early missionary buddhism
At the same time you have early missionary christianity
moving eastward along the trade routes out of syria
And it's there that money is born in babalon, which is a zoroastrian theocracy
and he's born under a
A relatively tolerant ruler that's trying to so the zoroastrianism at the time was still forming like state religion wasn't like fully fledged yet
But it was trying to kind of integrate the different religious constituencies of the empire. So the persians wanted to make
a
A society where the the western greek speaking, you know, many of them christians could be
Seen integrated within a larger society
So you can see manicheism as kind of like a project where he gets born as a pro and he sees himself as a prophet
It is an early age
His family when he's a small child converts to jewish christianity
So not so it's kind of a gnostic form of christianity, but it's but it's one that still eats kosher
But it's vegetarian. It's called the alka sites. They're similar to the ebunites
So his family his fan. He is he's part of a religious minority in babalon, which is the the jewish christians
but he
sees himself as
An apostle to jesus in the mold of saint paul
Like he's another so he has experiences visions of the resurrected jesus as a young child that make him
See himself as the apostle of light as kind of the second coming and also the second coming of the buddha and zoroaster
right so all three religions yet
um
merged into one
and
so he and he has his
Very gnostic cosmogony. So he's got basically
Like like in zoroastrianism, you have like light and darkness, you know this like the
The dark side of the force and the light side of the force
You have this cosmic dualism where it's light
Is spirit darkness is matter and they're kind of at war in the universe
Well, the mannequins would be folks who'd say that you can separate them
Right, they would say you can actually so from the time of creation
matter and light are
So that all living things all life in the universe
Is like a bound together matrix of dark matter and light spirit and that the job of a mannequin monk is to separate the two
and to
To return the world of light to pure light and exile the world of darkness to pure and matter, right?
So, uh, do you want to play that that that clip?
Hear you nothing that I say master moving stones around is one thing. This is totally different
No, no different only different in your mind. You must unlearn what you have learned
All right, I'll give it a try. No try not
do
Or do not
There is no try
I can't it's too big size matters not look at me just me by my size to you
And where you should not for my ally is the force and the powerful light is
Life creates it makes it grow
Its energy surrounds us
And binds us
Luminous beings don't need not this crude matter
Anyways, the the famous scene where yoda is talking to luke about the force and
He says we are luminous that the force is all life and we are luminous beings not this crude matter
So he's making an anti-materialist statement. That's very much in keeping with buddhist christian ideas and manicheism
So I think that manicheism may be a kind of a covert influence on
George luke, so let's go back to the slides and we'll just talk about some general buddhist christian stuff that comes from this this matrix
um
All right, so it looks like there's one line on the thing that's not showing but it doesn't matter just pointing out that monastic traditions
So monks and nuns are uncannily similar in buddhism and christianity
Right, there's like to be to live in a monastery means you shave your head
you you you you either
Slap yourself with a stick or you might slap your brother with a stick to mortify their flesh, right?
So there's like then that's true if you're in a zen monastery or like a a catholic monastery
tons of these similarities and practices so the the shaping of the head the almsgiving
meditation practices vows of silence things like that celibacy
um
confessional rights which we think of the right of confession as being
um
Or the sacrament of confession as being like a universal catholic thing
But it was only in the late medieval modern period that it left monasteries
and became like a general
Thing that just like that regular christians did but originally confession was something that monks
Did with other monks like that personal thing where you go in the little confessional
So that's also something you see in buddhism for example
You see all these sort of you know the use of bells and worship
The veneration of the bones of dead people like reliquary
That's like really weird for a lot of religions but not for buddhist and christian monastic traditions, right?
They have like like these veneration of of relics reliquary boxes with with human remains inside
And counting beat counting rosary beads and and the bulbous metal chain sensors that monks or priests will swing and like the
The incense right wise up. So like all this material culture and practical similarity comes from somewhere
It's not a coincidence. Right the very earliest establishment of monasticism and christianity happening in egypt the desert fathers
So the desert monks in egypt guess what else was practicing being practiced at the same time in that part of egypt
buddhism
No, buddhism made it that far west, but manicheism did okay manichea
Remember st. augustine was originally manichean right manicheism was huge in north africa
So christian monasticism comes from north africa at a time when
Manichean monastic institutions were already established and where did they get their ideas about monastic how monastic disciplined from
It was it was baked in from the beginning right manicheans were buddhists and christians right right they saw themselves as both
So when they're setting up monasteries, they're bringing
buddhist ideas into the christian
World and christianity then gets to run with them. They're getting them from an intermediate. They're not getting them straight from buddhism. They're getting them
via a
Uh, you know the the and this is a little controversial, but it's it's fairly clear that there were widespread deeply
Uh deeply institutionalized
Manichean institutions in north africa at the time that early
Christian monasteries were first set and so um
that's um
That's pretty straightforward argument right you're not that's not like you're saying it came from outer space here. It's it's yeah
Yeah, yeah, there's the direct
So syncretism is when a religion blends to other religions and meant much syncretism is kind of covert
It's like you don't acknowledge directly that there was like
Zoroastrian influence in
Judaism for example, that's not like something that that people advertise
but manicheanism was
Embraced it right manicheanism was supposed to syncretize. It was like saying these other religions are rivers
into one ocean ocean the ocean being
Manicheanism sort of the way the bahai faith, right? I was just thinking about that or or Sikhism in in india has a little bit of that
There is no hindu. There is no muslim. There's only god and that's you know
And I mean that's the way that the Sikhs would look at so there's a similar kind of idea that mani is saying
that all other religions are correct, but they're not as correct as
As as this one this one is the complete total thing. Yeah, so we've said all this
He he he's he's portrayed as both the second coming of jesus the second coming of the buddha the second coming of zoroastra all at once
So that's many years and his practitioners are instantly persecuted. So this is the other thing with star wars
It's like the rebellion against the empire
Imperial theocracies hate manicheans
They generally are treated badly everywhere for that the entire duration of their existence
Is this what george lucas you you think is doing has he made a comment about this? I have no idea
I would love to to talk to him about it. You can see him interviewing like
The joseph cambell power of myth right here is he does a long
Interview about like the hero with the thousand faces and the way that world mythology
Influences star wars. So I would you know, if he were accessible, which he is not
I would love to have a chat with him about what exactly he was reading when he was in community college in
in california
In the 70s and and when he was doing research on the screenplay for empire strikes back
In the 80s, what books did he have access to that right? Are the jedi's the manicheans?
The jedi's seem like persecuted manicheans a little bit the way they're hunted systematically hunted to extinction by a convert from their order, right?
like, you know
Anakin skywalker is one of them and then turns on them
So like st. augustine used to be a maniche and then he's like
Screw this and he like jettison's it and then he becomes the main one of the main
Ways that it's annihilated in the west is through the duck trinal
You know
And the the the polemical arguments against manicheism started by st. augustine continue forward
So manicheism doesn't exactly disappear though. It goes underground
It becomes it loses its distinctive identity
But it retains a lot of its underlying feeling and so there's a continuous
history of heresy in the west that is somewhat indebted to
Persian cosmic dualism even though you're calling it heresy but for our audience like the heresiologist are calling it heresy technically
Yeah, that's right. And I'm and I don't use that with the pejorative sense. Right. I embrace the term
I've always sort of thought of myself as as a heretic. So therefore I don't like say that with any malice
Right, right, right a heretic is in something in my opinion is not something to be ashamed of
But so that that you know, but for those people who who has judgment. Yeah from the perspective of the maniche
They're not the heretic
They're the orthodoxy and the other ones are the you know, it's always the heretic is always the person that's not in the dominant fate
Of course
And the fact is is they were classes heresies not just by Christians but by Buddhists
and by
Zoroastrians
Manny himself was martyred
in Zoroastrian persia
By the Zoroastrian theocracy they according to the
The manichean sources he was either crucified or flayed alive, right? So that fulfills his claim to be, you know
Like christ, you know what I mean? He has this sort of the same story. He ends up getting um
Getting martyred and his religion still survives
Of course, just because the the whole idea of reliquary worship comes out of this context
Third century like when did christians start venerating the bones of dead martyrs?
In the late third century at the same time it happens to mani. It's happening. It happens in the west. It happens in the east
There's all this, you know, physical persecution of these new religions and they use it as kind of like to build themselves to say look
You know, the the forces of darkness are against us and we're we're we're we're fighting it
But something else I want to say so, you know, are you know the diocletianic persecutions?
No, we're of that
Well, I'm not aware of the word right before the treat right before the edict of milan
You know the edict of milan. Yes general amnesty religious freedom which allowed and then took a few more generations for like christian diocracy to become
Non not general religious freedom now. It's only religious freedom for some people
But originally for a few decades after constantine there was general religious freedom
During that period of time christians and manicheans coexisted side by side at peace
Within the roman empire, right? So there was a a a period of multiple generations when
manichees and orthodox christians orthodox slash catholic christians were not
In at odds with each other right there were ways so they had social solidarity for a while
And they also had social solidarity when they were both persecuted
So when diocletian who was he was the guy who sets up the diocese?
He sets up like the so he ends the barracks emperors period when you have all this like bloodshed in rome
He sets up. He stabilizes the empire and makes it
Makes it a lot the lasting thing that it kind of becomes through like justinian and all that
all
The endurance of the eastern roman empire is possible because the the bloodshed of the third century ends
When diocletian comes along and says
All right, we're not going to have you know
Emperors coming out of the barracks anymore. We're going to have like persian style elite
ruler way above everybody we're going to set up the the um the tetrarchy with you know administrative
control of the east and west under two different leaders
On each side and all this stuff
But what he does is he persecutes christians and manicheans side by side
during a right around the turn of the
um
The fourth century so late third early fourth century you have a period when not just christians are being thrown to the lions
Manicheans too are being burned alive in the arenas
Right and their scriptures are so this is this is what i'm saying
They're social so at the time that these both these religions are kind of getting off the ground
They have a period of social solidarity and a number of their stories from this period are this are found in both traditions
Like um like the the martyrdom of mani is almost exactly like the martyrdom of saint bartholomew in armenia
The story of that story. It's like it's like almost identical the story of a man. He's own death
Azoroastrian theocrat is mad because this great apostle is converting his brother to this new religion
So he says, you know, you must die and we flay you alive, right this this these kinds of
Ideas are coming out of both manichean and christian contexts at the same time
And so one of the saints i was going to talk about in my slideshow
Can you pull it up and skip forward until you get to the saint justis?
So we got a i have too many slides here. There's a picture of the of jesus as the buddha
From the evil japan. Okay, move forward. That's a manichean prophet
Jesus in the buddhist guys
um
So i was going to talk about you know, i have a lot of a lot of slides here clement of alexandria had a positive view of buddhists
I was just going to say that and he was right before mani
And so mani is coming out of a period when buddhists and christians were not antagonistic towards each other. Okay, so um skip forward skip forward
There's a picture of the the christianized buddha
Um, so bodhisattva becomes josephat through several translation stages like the manichanes
uh
Give it a monotheistic law. So buddhism is non-theistic or not monotheistic, but it becomes trans its scriptures become
transformed into more
like western monotheism because
As the manicheans syncretize eastern and western texts. They also harmonize them right introduced western religious
theology and dogma into
texts of buddhist origin
So you have josephat as a pious
prince
Of a horrible pagan king and he has to escape his father's palace
Are you familiar with the the birth and the the early mission of buddha?
You know this story. Um, isn't he a prince and he's supposed to have like a noble rule
But he there's probably different stories. I suspect floating around but one of them
I know of is he's out in the field and he sees someone who's like
Working the fields and like a bird comes by and like picks up a worm or something like that and
He realizes the suffering of the world or something and it like right causes him like
traumatic he's trapped in a pleasure palace his his dad his dad is told when he when he's miraculously born
You know, there's like omens and prophecies and the wise men are like saying
He'll either be a religious leader and save the world
or he'll be
a world ruling tyrant
And I want him to be the tyrant so he he traps him in a pleasure palace full of like naked ladies and drugs
And and basically doesn't let him ever see suffering in the world
But he becomes profoundly dissatisfied with this and starts sneaking out of the palace at night on his loyal horse
Doesn't he see someone dying or something?
He sees an old man. He sees a sick man. He sees a dead man and he sees a monk
The monk is the fourth site and that monk also becomes a christian saint saint's barlum, which is a corruption of the term
Bhagavad, which is like lord or a title for a buddha or like a really
Empowerful religious leader. So the the monk that sends the buddha on his religious mission
is like the um
Uh becomes a desert hermit like one of those desert fathers named barlum and guess so
So skip forward in the in the slideshow
if you can
So this is how the word I think where the word yoda might come from
One possible explanation for where george lucas gets the word yoda
So bodhisattva, which means enlightenment being in sanskrit and refers to one who will become a buddha
It turns into arabic buddhasaf
but
The letter b in arabic looks a lot like the letter y
The difference is a slightly different shape of the squiggle and a slightly different diacritic underneath
So when you're transcribing it, it's easy to confuse
b and y so when it gets transcribed from
arabic into georgian and greek
buddhasaf becomes ioda saaf
ioda saaf so yoda saaf right y a saf then later the delta and the uh
omega
Or is it I forget I think it is an omega not an omacard. Yeah the delta and the omega
um
So no no not del delta del the omega is fine the omega is the the o syllable the delta and the
alpha
Are little triangular things and they look similar so they accidentally get squashed together
So basically the d disappears and gets merged with the a because of the trick the difficulty in reading the manuscript
so yoda saaf becomes joa saaf
And joa saaf gets confused in latin with the hebrew name jahosa fat
so joa saaf becomes
josephat so you basically through a number of translational steps you start with bodhisattva
in asia and it turns into josephat in latin and in a bunch of other european languages and it becomes a really popular
saints life life story along with all these others so yeah my hunch is that
george lucas read a standard
Book about the christianization of the buddha
There were like books written in the late 19th century that would have been easily accessible in any university library in the 1970s
And if he pulls out this book and he's reading about how the buddha gets turned into a christian saint
And he sees the passage
Describing the transcription from arabic into georgian
And he might have noticed that name yoda
There in the manikin version of the buddhist's
Biography so it's right at that stage in persia when you have manikins living under islamic rule that they're going to
Be really careful to make him a mono a good monotheist
because islam
Islam's criteria over whether you're a legitimate religion or not
Is whether you believe in one god in the day of judgment
So if the manikins originally had more polytheistic kind of tendencies in their
Scriptures, it's possible that those would be ironed out during transmission
westward
Okay, wow
Move forward again. So here's just a picture of saint barlam
Instructing josephat and it looks a lot like
obi-wan kanobi
Instructing young luke and remember what young luke is also a young boy a prince who doesn't know that well
Not quite a prince. He doesn't know who is his real father is but he's actually
He's actually descended from the jedi's himself
But he thinks he's just some kid stuck on a planet who forced to live with his family
But he ends up and he wants to leave so he ends up leaving and meeting this desert hermit who then
Instructs him in the ways of the force and so that's a picture of saint josephat
Another little thing another popular episode
There's the description of the man being chased by a unicorn and falling into a well
And and then being attacked by a dragon at the bottom of the well and snakes coming out of the walls
I always think of this as kind of the starlack pit
The the word unicorn is one that in arabic and greek can also mean rhinoceros
And so the mythological unicorn is a distortion of what is probably a real animal and rhinoceros in fact the original
The original buddhist version. It was an angry elephant
So at some point the elephant becomes a rhino and the rhino becomes a unicorn
So this is a picture of an arabic manuscript of the story and I just I think of
Little grogu baby yoda's clant mandalorian clan signet the
The mudhorn which is a version of an extinct
Siberian woolly rhinoceros, which is called this Siberian unicorn. So that unicorn rhino thing
I just wanted to show a little bit of that
Here's a picture again of of josephat
Being told the story the parable by barlum barlum is telling him the parable
Uh of the man falling in the well and being attacked by the dragons and the lesson of it is to don't be
Deluded by your senses because while he's hanging on these branches
He gets to taste some wild honey
And the wild honey makes him think oh everything's fine
It's like the little dog in the in the burning house everything's fine because he's got his coffee
Right the coffee is causing him to ignore the peril of his existence
That mortality is you know what I mean in other words the buddha has to conquer death itself
And death is chasing him from above and below and from all sides around him and and so don't be
Deluded by the sense pleasures that said that the problem isn't going away
Some um some zen versions of this get really chilled out like live in the moment
Enjoy the wild strawberries that you find on that. Yeah. Yeah, I actually know parables
That that is a version of the same parable, but it's one that that is has a slightly different moral
But it's the same story got it. So there's yeah, we could go on all day
There's about five or six important medieval saints lives that are derived from Sanskrit originals via this sort of long slow process of transmission
so let's
Um skip that one. I want to talk about st. Eustace because st. Eustace is a guy. He was a general
So go yeah, st. Eustace was a general in Trajan's time
Who was a pagan?
Soldier allegedly who had a vision of christ in the form of a deer
When he was about to shoot the deer and christ turned around and said dude, why are you trying to kill me man?
I'm your savior and he falls down and he gets converted by the talking deer the deer tells him to
That he's you know, he's it's not cool for him to be shooting at christ like that because he is christ and then he ends up
becoming a great saint
That story is the one of the penultimate by our previous lives of the buddha. So
Actually, it's a combination of two of them. There's there's one called the
The um
Well king brahmadatta and the banyan deer which I showed this live for before that's the that's the first half of the use of story
the second half of the use of story is
um
is
A version of the vishfantara jataka, which is the story of the previous the very last
incarnation of the buddha before the historical buddha
So because remember like the buddha has like a bunch of different previous life stories these legends of his previous lives
So the second to last life before the historical one
What he was a prince who sort of like job?
Abandoned his family and he gets tested by the gods
And he eventually gets his everything restored to him when he's proves loyalty
So it's it's kind of like a little bit similar to the it's almost like uh,
Solomon too in a weird way because he is told you know
What wishes do you want and he wants nothing but wisdom?
And then ends up getting all those things as well once he's proven that it wasn't the material gain that he wanted in that particular
Legend, uh, but the problem is he sacrifices. I don't know how many animals uh on the altar in that particular tale
You know what I mean, right? Yeah. Yeah, so so he ends up he ends up getting he ends up being proven
Uh good in the end
But so the the the story of use this is basically a combination of two different jataka stories into one big story
Where the first half of it is one jataka story and the second half of his life is the second jataka story
But what happens at the end is he gets killed by diacletian
the diacletian persecution happens he is
He's forced to
Choose between eating meat that's been sacrificed to an idol
Or not and so he gets roasted alive in one of these bronze bowls in the arenas where you put him inside the bowl
light a fire underneath and it and it your bellows of agony come out of the
The mouth of the bowl
Like like it makes it sound like the bowl is groaning and and making bowl noises
But it's actually just the like the amplification of the screams of the the person that's being what the hell
This in this horrific convention
So that story the fact that these buddhist christian stories are told about
In the context of the diacletianic persecution, which remember I told you was a period when both christians
And mannequins were being tortured to death publicly side by side
right
I'm just saying that this this is like that's the window of time that we're talking about that and and these are told much later than that
But they're kind of like an echo through the ages of the memory of that period
And yeah, and the fact is is that they get the fact the fact that they originate in this heretical buddhist christian hybrid context
Doesn't stop them from being popular among all christians
Right, they end up becoming like the golden legend, which was like a major medieval novel
It was like a bestseller was all these awesome saints and what they did
There's like five or six of them that have sanskrit
You know in this giant book of of of saints lives
There's five or six of them that are not originally christian at all that come from buddhist india
Hmm
This is another one of the same just another picture of usus being you know in the arena
And then and then another one a version of this is the one saint holy saint hubert in germany
Is the german version of usus the same story?
But retold in a different setting right he's got the same exact biography as usus, but but it's it's set later
He's not and the and the deer doesn't talk to him
It's a little more sanitized the deer is like it's the disembodied voice of jesus that's coming from the heavens and the deer is just
There you know like the deer is like
is like just like
Being a deer not not like a not an intelligent deer right? Yeah
And and he's not being punished for attacking christ in the form of a deer. He's impiously hunting on good friday
So here so hubert's sin is that he's being a nobleman. He's like engaging in sport hunting when it's
When he's supposed to be praying the stations of the cross in church and and jesus gets mad from above and says
You know better hubert and he ends up having to quit. So that's that's a picture of the hubert story from leonardo
I think that's from yeah, leonardo da Vinci's tomb a lot of these stories get illustrated in fantastic medieval artwork
You go to like churches in italy you can see scenes from some of these buddhist stories in major altar pieces above doorways
There's like I think there's a
Uh the scene of the the man chasing the unicorn chasing the man into the tree
That's a lot. That's commonly illustrated in in major christian artwork
And so it's really cool. Oh, yeah, this one st christopher
The the christ bearer
He oh, yeah
Is called masapada who was a cannibal demon ogre
Who tried to eat one of the buddha's previous incarnations
So little prince sutasoma who would be reborn as the buddha some x number of lives in the future
Little prince sutasoma is like taking a bath in the river and this cannibal demon ogre
Loves princes. They're like his favorite snack and he sneaks up
Cluck him out of the water and carries him over the water on his back
To go eat him. But while he's doing that he's he's getting preached to the whole time
The little prince is like dispensing the dharma of the true religion into
The the cannibal demon ogre's ear and the cannibal demon ogre says wow, I shouldn't really be a cannibal. Should I that's not cool
It's not i'll protect you and he and he gets turned from a
from a monstrous demon into a
protective like
protector of children and so that becomes um
Not probably through the story the story of st. Christopher is a little bit different remember
But the the general features so st. Christopher is also a gigantic dog-headed cannibal
In the in the in the Byzantine version like the original eastern version of the Christopher legend
he's a gigantic dog-headed cannibal who
um who
It turns into a fairy man, right?
He becomes he eventually renounces his cannibalism and he's fairies people across a river and one of the people that he fairies across the river
Is the christ child and he becomes
The st. Christopher we know is the protector of travelers
As a result of his you know, uh encounter with the christ child as he's crossing the river
That is not identical story, but it's likely that art
Transmitted this so I talked about those other ones where there's clear examples of texts where people are like written
documents that get
Transformed over multiple generations of scribal copying with errors and stuff in the case of st. Christopher
it's much more likely that he was a um
that the the iconography the images of
Comma sapida carrying super suit to soma inspired
images of christopher carrying
Uh christ so you can see some of the other images here move forward. Yeah, these are the indonesia contemporary indonesian pictures
Of this guy animal headed ugly guy one more forward
here's a picture of
In the western version, he's a human with but with really hairy face
He's like like, you know, like a beastly think of like one of those game of thrones
Guys like pound or somebody, you know, I mean like a big burly ugly bearded guy
But if you look at one more forward
The Byzantine versions he's always got the head of a dog
Wow
and so
And so the notion that he is a protector of the of the child savior who has the head of a cannibal and eats people
I mean the head of an animal and he eats eats people until he's taught that that's bad. You shouldn't do that
Is the basic gist of it. Okay. Yeah, and then um, let's not I could talk about
The the dog st. Jennifer, which is another one, but let's let's I I included too many slides and I don't think no biggie
I've heard all today. There's lots of these ins and outs we could go. Let's get back to star wars though because it's star wars day
I don't know for sure if
If any scholar of star wars would valid validate that there's a real genuine connection
specifically to the the legend of josephat
But I just I think it's too
The name yoda soff is too similar to be a coincidence in my opinion
Especially given the other aspects of the force religion that resemble manicheism in particular
And the fact that it's the you know, the light and darkness
in in in conflict with each other
And the and the imperial
bad guys
with the rebellious
order monastic order
Classed as heretics systematically hunted. I didn't get to say that I didn't get to specify
That it wasn't just in the west, right?
So like at the earliest stage that buddhism is established in tibet
Manichaeans are involved
But then the earliest buddh Tibetan emperors ban it
They say it's heresy and they
Uh, and they condemn it and they say it can't be officially practiced
So it influences the at the ground level early tibetan buddhism in the eighth century at the time when
Remember I said that there was a manichean theocracy in nearby parts of east central asia
So if you move up into the tibetan plateau, you get the influence of that manicheism there at the ground level
China china is the place where manicheism survives the longest is a separate religion
So in china, that's where you have like long
term multi-century
enduring
Manichean monasteries, but then in the ninth century in the mid ninth century they persecute all foreign religions
They try to destroy buddhism because remember buddhism is foreign technically to china. It comes from india. It's not
So the the the the late tang dynasty a particular emperor
Decides that all foreign religions are bad. He destroys all monasteries. He defrocks all monks
He seizes all the assets in a few months. So
Many major western missionary religions go extinct in china at that time christian
indigenous chinese christianity virtually extinct
manicheism
virtually extinct
Zoroastrianism in china virtually extinct you name it all these religions. They were suppressed underground, right?
Yeah, they weren't big enough to survive this period of persecution buddhism
Was almost a theocracy chinese buddhism in the tang dynasty was so big
It couldn't be killed
Right. So despite the fact they tried to annihilate it
It came back
Right away. It was in the groundwater by that point. You know, there's no way you could get make china un buddhist
But those other religions could never really were the same again after that, but they did survive his underground just so manicheism
persisted as a blend or as a kind of a
A subtle undercurrent
within
Chinese vocalism religion and it's still there to this day a tiny bit of it because what happened was
The manichean institutions became recast as buddhist as as purely buddhist
So they didn't represent themselves as being manichean anymore
But a number of major rebellions had manichean factors
So the white lotus rebellion which launches the Ming dynasty
was was
Caused by a messianic folk religious movement that was
More or less equal parts buddhism dowism and manicheism, right because there's the whole notion of a messiah figure that
That leads a new a changing of the world order
Right that inaugurates a new imperial age. Where does that messianic concept come from?
That's a western religious idea that gets brought into chinese folk religion by
Manicheism specifically and these rebels that helped to launch the Ming dynasty
were so fearsome
that they were
Almost immediately banned like one of the first things that the Ming emperor did it was like saying
manichean is outlawed
because
These folks were seen as a threat and potentially it could do it again or whatever and then the white
It's a white lotus is the movement and eventually it happens again around the year 1800. So around the time of the american revolution
There's another like a resurgence of the white lotus
rebellion in
Early modern china and it ends up resulting again in a ban on manicheism that remained a legally
Prohibited movement religious movement until like 1900 or something
But if I was going to ask you something specifically on star wars to get your thoughts. Yeah
his luke sky walker
Sounds like the sun and I was wondering if there's some combination of soul and victus or if there was something
In manicheism where the sun the light because the light the light would be the sun and
That's a very good thing. I think his name was originally star killer
Like there's a lot of like like the the draft manuscript of the screenplay gets revised a lot
So I don't think there's like a single mass. I think that the fully developed narrative as we know it
Really comes into existence around 1980 when he's writing the screenplay for empire strikes back
But yeah the name skywalker
Sure, again the only person we could ask to know about this because it is fiction. It is all made up
Yeah, but isn't it a religion? That's another thing we've waited this long to actually mention
I'm sure a lot of our audience members who haven't really dug into star wars
Might be shocked to find out this is a real legit
Like colt if you will a following there are people who consider themselves jedi and some of them are atheists
Doing parody religion similar to like the church of the subgenius or the church of the flying spaghetti monster
So in other words, it's called the jedi census phenomenon
Particularly british atheists started calling themselves jedi on census documents
This during this century so that they could build it up and they and jedi indeed became
bigger than Scientology
As officially recorded jedi adherence became bigger of Scientology
And I don't think it's legal to do that anymore. I think great britain was like, you know, because you're taking the piss man
It's like the or the postifarians, you know with their with their
uh, the spaghetti colander had had gear that there there's like real postifarians in
The man the right to have where their religious attire of of a of a you know flying spaghetti monster gear during
Driver's license photos and stuff like that. So or like in courts or something. I can't remember the train
But I I don't want to say that it's all parody
I think that there are indeed some adherents of the jedi religion that that take it more seriously than just like a
None of the above kind of you know category. So I had to date. That's a problem with with with a thing like a census
When you're just counting people
Filling out government forms. It's hard to say for sure. I've certainly known star wars fans in my life
That took it so seriously that it was like of practically like a real religion to them
um, it can be it can be like any fandom it can be verge upon religious
um
Devotion
I I'm somebody who came of age. I'm a gen X kid and I came of age
I was too young to see the I was born the year their first movie came out
I was too young to see that in the first round in the theater, but back in the 80s
They would replay them in the theater
Every couple of years. So I saw it when it was very young in the theater like the second or third
Round of replaying it. I saw empire when I was way too little to see it. My dad was a theater usher
And he put me even a little baby joe
to his um
To his job with him. So I saw like the indiana jones and I saw like
Empire strikes back when I was like I had no business seeing those movies when I was like three
There's my earliest memories or some of these scenes
You know
So, uh wrapping things up in this particular this has been a blast. Um
What would you say at the end of the day people need to walk away with in this lecture series or this idea that we're discussing pertaining to
star wars and mannequism. I mean
I
I will hesitate to say there's anything that's significant. I think it's fun. I think it's cool
I just hope you were entertained because the yeah is is that some of the historical arguments i'm making have changed over time
and if I were to talk to you as a
a specialist scholar of
Manichaeism they would split hairs about a lot of the individual arguments. That's all good. I'm not actually arguing making a
Historical argument here. I'm saying I my hunch is that george lucas was influenced by
Academic literature that was available to him in the 1970s to come up with yoda for sure
About the name yoda. That's the main takeaway and that other aspects of this particular tradition may have influenced the star wars
concepts
I think that and I would love it if if george lucas would comment on that at some point in his life
I doubt he's I you know, does he watch myth vision? Maybe he does. He's into myths
Yeah, the stuff, you know, he is the kind of person who might be a fan of your podcast here
so if he's watching, you know
Whatever I can't I can't say for sure
Yeah, I'm not I'm not communicating any real deep profound truth here except for I've always been fascinated by this stuff
And there are other arguments related to these manichean
Buddhist hybrid
Phenomena that I I will make elsewhere and maybe we'll have another more serious discussion of some of this stuff where we make more
Pointed academic arguments another time. I look forward to that possibility
I look forward to it as well. Everybody can go check out your academia page down in the description
Is there anything else you'd like to mention? Um before you air this I will provide a list of various interesting sources
That you can check out so I will
So we're recording this at advanced folks
In anticipation of star wars day. So I suspect Derek's gonna air it in a few days and in that time I will provide him a bunch of
Yeah, I'll try and launch this
Include in in in the comments section so that people who are interested in some of these I have articles
I've written there's oh, yeah, I forgot to say this is an anticipation of of a recent thing
I've published in a online magazine called boganland view
And so that's going to be the first link is going to be to the article that prompted this here
Nice. Yeah, this will be on patreon early for everybody who helps support us
So you'll be able to watch that and maybe we'll launch this on the day star wars day
So I really appreciated joseph. I look forward to doing this again
Anything else you didn't mention that you might want to mention before lots of things
I didn't mention that I do want to mention but we don't have time so it's gonna have to wait
Well, thank you so much for your time. I forgot I said five minutes from now. I'll be like damn. I should sit
It's okay. No biggie. Thank you. It's been a pleasure
Never forget we
are
myth vision
You
