We're live and we're talking about the Gospel of Mark,
but I have Dr. James Tabor joining me.
How are you doing, Dr. Tabor?
I'm doing great.
I know that we've had some controversy from this course.
Quite a few people didn't like some of the things
that were mentioned in its presentation,
but you point out clearly that you kind of get
what you get when you're reading Mark as Mark
and not filtering it through the other Gospels.
So you're gonna be doing a Q and A
for anyone who signed up for the course
and can still sign up for the course
to be able to come and join you for a private Zoom group,
get together, Q and A.
Tell us about the course.
Tell us about the Q and A, what you got coming up.
Yeah, well, we're doing this live on Thursday
and the Q and A is on Sunday the 30th,
the last day of the month,
just before Monday, May 1st.
So not quite May day.
And it's at noon Eastern time.
You have to pick a time.
I know it cuts some people out globally,
depending on whether they're willing
to set their alarm clocks.
But basically that's it.
And we'll send the Zoom invitation out by email.
Excuse me.
I guess I didn't know to go live.
We need to edit this.
Send the Zoom invitation out,
or Ryan will your faithful companion, Ryan.
It'll come from MythVision.
So be sure you don't have MythVision going to spam.
I'm sure nobody who listens to you, Derek,
would certainly do that with your emails.
And also we'll put the Zoom link also on the web course page.
So if you log into the course,
you can't find the email that happens with me all the time.
Where's that email with the link?
Right.
Yeah, you can just go to the course and it'll be there.
And I've already got the questions.
People have been sending them in.
It goes all the way back to some of the questions
when you and I did it on March 5th.
And I'm sure we can't cover them all,
but because I've got them ahead of time,
I've organized them.
And not right now, but one of the things I'm gonna do
is channelize you a little bit
towards the end of our session today.
I'm gonna give you a couple of the questions
that are just like, wow, how are you gonna answer this?
And I'm not gonna answer them.
I'm just gonna kind of channelize you and say,
I'm gonna address these.
So there's that.
Now you sent me a video link to a young man.
Oh, he won't mention his name now,
but he had objected to the methods.
He had three objections to the methods I use.
Not the methodology.
I always tell my students, talk about methods.
Methodology is the study of method.
But I'm talking about the actual method I use.
Like John Crossen has a method.
Dale Lalison has a method.
Paula Fridgensen has a method.
On and on.
Bart Ehrman has a method.
How do you approach these documents?
What are your presuppositions?
What are your ideas?
And everything from being accused of,
oh, you just pick and choose.
And this particular gentleman,
and I have nothing at all against him.
In fact, I wanna do a show with you
where we'll place some clips,
not to like put him down or anything,
but he raises really good points that people,
you have to understand the method I'm using
with these gospels, which I call careful.
Some people call it critical.
I call it careful.
So when I teach Mark, forget the others even exist.
Now along the way I point out,
and notice what Matthew does with this,
he just takes it out and Luke just takes it out
and so forth.
I'm assuming these guys are conscious, right?
They're not zombies.
And so when they look at Mark in front of them
and they have other traditions, okay.
Yes, of course they do.
And they wanna add them.
But sometimes they wanna add them
because they don't like the point Mark's making.
Like get behind me Satan to Peter.
Luke just takes that out.
Now that's conscious.
How do I know it's conscious?
Am I in his head?
Yes.
How am I in Luke's head?
Because I've compared every single time in Mark
when Peter's mentioned and how he treats Peter.
And so that's how I know.
In other words, I'm being careful.
I'm just shooting from the hip.
Like, oh, Tabor likes this and he says this is in
and this is out and this is up and this is down.
That's not how I work.
And if I did work like that, please do more critiques.
But I always welcome critiques.
I wanna do a show with you in the future, Derek.
I've been writing this down four or five ways
that I've changed my mind on things,
which I hope is to my credit.
If I've been studying this stuff
and teaching it for four decades,
I hope I've changed on something.
Yeah.
I mean, could I use my notes from the 70s
and not, you know, here's my notes for the Mark course.
You know, I keep adapting and adopting
and learning and so forth.
So as much as the content, I wanna show people
the way many of us study and how we go about.
Another thing we can do,
this isn't a course, Derek, but it kind of,
I really wanna do this method thing for all of your people.
It's just so important.
And what we could do in the future too,
is talk about how my method is say different
from Bart Ehrman or Dale Allison,
and then why, or Crossen,
naming some of the major people that have written on Jesus.
And then why, and that's why we come out
with different conclusions, you see?
Well, you guys can't agree on anything.
Well, let's figure out why we can,
what their presuppositions, you know?
Bob Price and I.
I wouldn't say you can't agree on anything.
I think overall, for the most part, you do agree.
Yeah.
But you know how people say, all those scholars,
they think they've got it all down.
They're reading it historically
and they don't even agree.
Is there an empty term?
Is there not an empty term?
Right, right, right.
This and that, but so.
The problem with that is I find some of the more
conservative types that are arguing this.
They'll say stuff like, well, the documentary hypothesis
and the supplementary hypothesis,
and they can't agree on anything.
And it's like, actually I've spoken to both sides.
They do agree that there are multiple sources
from different voices that are taking place.
The one thing they do agree on
is that this is not one author writing all of this material
as if they're all saying the same thing.
So that's the thing the conservative approach
is trying to do is say, hey,
kind of like the conservative approach of the gospels
is to try and say, these gospels ain't so different.
In fact, they're actually the same kind of voice,
even if they're different people,
they're pretty much saying the same thing.
That's what they want to sell you,
whereas you all are in agreement,
no, these are different voices,
but our conclusions are a little different.
I just want to emphasize that.
And it isn't, I did a pretty radical title once with you
that Matthew and Luke hate Mark,
and it was partly clickbait, I admit it,
but we talked about that.
Why are you telling me?
And I said, well, hate is like love less,
according to a lot of people when they read the Gossels,
like, hey, your mother, father, brother, sister.
So they love him less, how about that,
if you can relax with that.
But what happens is the approach often is,
well, but they have other information that they add,
and aren't we glad that we have this additional material?
Well, of course I'm glad,
but I also want to read what the result
of adding that material is,
or taking something out that's really significant.
Like a really good example,
and I'm going to actually address this in the Q and A,
but I want to answer it now.
Mark says there'll be no sign given to this generation,
no sign, Matthew says, except the sign of Jonah.
Okay, if you put them together,
you go, oh, well, I want all of it.
And he obviously said, there'll be no sign except,
and poor Mark, he just didn't know the exception,
and so he left it out.
Okay, if you think that,
then you're reading the Gospels in a certain way.
I would encourage you, and I encourage my students,
to be aware of that,
if you want to finally put them all together and get it all.
But what you've got now is something you've created,
and what if Mark is doing something with that?
No sign, and I think he is.
It's when he literally turns on his heels
and walks away from this particular group
that is dogging him,
and he never talks to them again
until the last day of his life.
And then he blows them away,
and he basically says, I'm done.
So Mark is making this point about who can hear
and who has ears to hear,
and people being blinded, and all that kind of stuff.
So you gotta read it carefully.
But anyway, we're gonna do this great Q and A.
I wrote down a couple of things.
Son of man is used 14 times in Mark.
Son of God is used three times,
but if you take out the first one,
the beginning of the Gospel of Jesus Christ,
the Son of God,
which many major manuscripts don't have,
then it's two times.
Wow.
Now, I didn't emphasize this in the Course,
but people are good.
Well, if you say Mark thinks Jesus is a God,
he's the Son of God, right?
But if you don't put it in verse one,
and it only occurs two other times,
and I'm not gonna tell you the other two times.
I want you to think about it,
because off the top of your head,
you might come up with one or two,
but there are only two.
Now, that's notable.
That is very notable.
Now, you go count Matthew and Luke,
and where those occur,
and you're gonna see something emerging, okay?
And if you mush it all together, guess what?
You've lost Mark.
See, I wanna preserve Mark.
And if you add to Mark or take from Mark,
let's go to this old evangelical.
You shall not add to or take from, right?
That's in Deuteronomy four,
and it's at the end of the book of Revelation.
So what do they do?
They add to and take from.
So all of a sudden, Mark is not Mark.
So I'm the fundamentalist, thank you,
because no, I'm not adding to what you're taking from.
Please put that label on my head.
Tabor just goes with the text, he doesn't fool around.
I'm not trying to synthesize or harmonize.
Now, if there are contradictions or differences,
which they are, that's,
I would then read Matthew as Matthew,
and Luke as Luke, and John as John.
And then you can begin to talk about, given all of,
and I would also throw in the Gospel of Thomas,
the Gospel of Peter,
maybe the Gospel of Mary Magdalene,
and some other things,
and then begin to talk about what is,
you know, a hundred years after Jesus,
say around the year 130, right, or a cookbook.
What are all the things that we know?
You'd have to have the apostolic fathers in there,
you know, and so forth.
But before Justin Martyr,
which becomes really synthesized then, I think.
So it's a whole enterprise.
Like my teacher, Robert Grant,
wrote a book called From Augustus to Constantine.
Best book on church history ever written, bar none.
You know what his footnotes are?
All of his footnotes.
Primary sources.
This is how Dr. Grant worked.
You know, he didn't care what Joe Blow said,
even if it's a good scholar.
You know, scholars always think,
I gotta review the 25 interpretations
of why there's no sign of Jonah.
No, I don't.
I'd rather just look at the text, you know.
So anyway, so we're gonna talk about that.
Well, what does Son of Man mean?
If it's used 14 times,
is he talking in Mark?
You know, this is only in Mark.
Is he, does he mean himself?
Like Pontius Pilate asked him,
are you the Messiah?
Straight out, Mark.
I think it's 14, chapter 14.
Are you the Messiah?
Straight out.
He says, I am.
And you'll see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven.
Very interesting.
You know, this thing about the Son of Man,
it's a Daniel thing, as you probably know.
I know you know that, but many don't.
And it's odd.
So we're gonna talk about that.
A lot of people, and Bart's doing a series on this now,
so isn't this kind of interesting,
the sort of serendipitous thing
about the young man who runs around naked
and they're asking me,
these are questions I've gotten for Sunday.
What do you think of sacred, Mark?
Well, believe me, I knew Morton Smith well.
I'm talking about a friend.
He read my dissertation before it was done.
I have annotations.
I should bring them to the meeting
if I can find them in a box, store it away.
But I can show you pages of my type dissertation.
Morton Smith's writing,
and he told me when he sent it back to me,
he said, I hope you're sitting down when you get this.
And I go, that was on the phone.
And I thought, ooh, is it bad?
He goes, no, I just wrote on every page.
This is Morton Smith.
And no, he did not forge that document.
Now, what the document is,
we could talk about, won't have time to do much.
We should do a course on esoteric gospel fragments
or something sometime, but not right now.
Another one is, one guy wrote me just this last week.
He goes, could you tell us in your own words, very clearly,
what is the secret of the kingdom and mark?
Now, should we clickbait this and say,
James Tabor will reveal the secret of the kingdom
and mark on Sunday at noon
or shortly thereafter in a Zoom meeting?
You should.
Are you gonna actually tell everybody?
Cause in the course-
I think I might, but I want them to figure it out
in the course and I don't want to spoil it.
It's sort of like a spoiler alert.
Right.
If you've been watching Succession,
that Logan died and you go,
oh, oh God, I wasn't supposed to say that, sorry.
Well, they're already on episode five or six now,
but some people are watching Succession.
It's like, you remember Homeland when Brady died,
they hung him, the Iranians hung him.
I don't know if you ever watched-
I never watched it.
These are HBO shows, Derek.
They're not like Netflix shows.
Okay.
I'm just kidding.
Mark and Q is a big question people are asking me.
I want to talk about that
because one idea would be Mark,
there's Q, let's call it sayings of Jesus and the story.
That's the two source theory.
And they get put together with other stuff
by Matthew and Luke and John.
But what if he does know Q,
but doesn't like it, Mark?
I want to talk a little bit about that on Sunday.
And there's, should we just assume that he loved Q
and he thought, oh, Q, the collection of the sayings
of Jesus, the material that Matthew and Luke has in common,
he loved that stuff, but he didn't need to tell the story.
But wait a minute, there's stuff in Q
that's pretty damn amazing that would fit in Mark really well.
Is, why doesn't he like use a little bit of it maybe?
Couple of times there's some parallels,
but so we're going to cover all these things.
It's going to be interesting.
And I'm telling you, Derek,
and I'm not just bragging for effect here.
These students that I've been hearing from
and the ones, we met March 5th, we had over 200 people
and you did the MC on the questions
and now I'm going to do it myself
as you're out of town, but I've got them all written down.
And we're going to go a couple hours,
but these people dig deep.
I don't know all the places they're coming from,
but this is our YouTube world that we live in.
And I'm telling you, I am so impressed,
not impressed with everyone who comments
on our YouTube channels,
because some of them are just rude
and just want to use our platform to preach their message
or some of them are kind of frankly,
sound kind of crazy or something,
or tell that they're a redemptive figure
and if we would listen to them.
But in all those comments, think of all the comments we get
and you get this in your super chats,
we get stuff from people that know more than I do
about a thing they've been delving into.
And we'll probably have some today like that.
So I don't know at all, but I'm telling you,
we're going to have fun.
And I can't tell you what a pleasure it is
to have a Zoom meeting with a few hundred people
that have read the stuff, studied the stuff
and they want to come and now talk about it.
I just wish it could be live.
We talked about running a big arena somewhere
and having like a YouTube convention for biblical studies
and all the main hosts could be there
and each of them could speak.
We could get some scholars to come
and it would be kind of like hang out.
You'd be the guy to organize this, right?
No, really, and people would have to fly in
and we would get some good hotel rates
and we could have a two or 300 convention
of doing biblical studies, wouldn't that be fun?
I'd love it.
And we could like have fist fights
and wrestling matches intellectually.
Have the scholars kind of go back and forth
on stage or something.
There's so many things that you also have coming up
before we get to super chats and get distracted
in the weeds, which I love doing.
You have some courses.
So first thing I want to just emphasize
for those who are watching right now,
the one we did with Mark, that one's out.
You literally, I pinned the comment
if you're interested in signing up,
you can join Dr. Tabor.
I won't be there this Sunday.
It's Sunday, isn't it, James?
Yeah, no, we haven't given the link yet,
but you're gonna give the...
Well, I've already given the course link.
So they could sign up for the course,
but as far as the email going out for the Zoom,
that's not been released.
And it'll also be on the course
if you lost the email, like we said, yeah.
Or if you don't make it Sunday.
Yeah, so it's not too late.
This is Thursday.
You don't have to have completed the course.
Just come and sit in the Zoom meeting.
And it's not a webinar.
We could do a webinar where I don't see you
and you see me and I personally,
even though it's little thumbnails all over the place,
you can put it on speaker view when I talk
and we'll record it.
And if you can't make it, we're gonna upload
or whether you make it or not,
people like to listen again sometimes
or review things that they didn't get
or they had to go to the bathroom
or get some coffee or tea
or got called by their dog barked or whatever.
So you're not gonna miss anything
even if you step away.
Sometimes the internet goes out and you go,
damn, right when he asked that question,
he did that question and my internet went out.
So all of it'll be recorded.
So unless my internet goes out, we're good.
Yeah.
So you already have the seven lectures
that goes through the entire Gospel of Mark.
And we already have the Q&A from the first session.
It's on the course.
So if people sign up, they can go watch the Q&A.
They can watch that.
And then they get the second one.
We might down the road do a third,
but I think in the meantime,
we'll be focusing on doing three more courses.
Can you tease us about what?
Oh, boy, can I, I can.
The first one I wanna do
is called the Dead Sea Scrolls and the Jesus Movement.
I wanna really work on that.
Now let me show you two things here.
This is the book.
It's Gaze of Vermesh, V-E-R-M-E-S.
Don't try to Google it
because it's totally out of print.
This is the first edition of Vermesh, 1973.
I bought this in graduate school, 73.
Do the math.
Wow.
50 years ago?
Am I right?
And I was a young guy in my twenties
going to grad school, getting my doctorate.
And this was my copy of the Dead Sea Scrolls.
You can see it's a little yellow, but guess what?
Even 50 years ago,
before all the new scrolls were out
and the full corpus of scrolls,
I think I've got somewhere the current book.
I don't need to pull it out, but it's about this thick.
It's over 800 pages.
But just from these basic documents
that were available even in the 1950s,
I'm gonna teach the course.
I don't mean I won't look at any of the new stuff.
I even published some of it myself for the first time.
Some of the new texts, and we'll look at some.
But I'm talking about the community rule
that a mascus document, the war scroll,
which is the apocalyptic book,
the Thanksgiving hymns, Bible interpretation,
the pashers, these are commentaries
on books like Habakkuk and so on.
This is 50 years ago you could study.
And I'm telling you, most of the main ideas
you can get from about seven texts.
So we can't do 800 pages of Dead Sea Scrolls.
But when you take this new course,
the Dead Sea Scrolls and the Jesus Movement,
not only are you gonna be able to say something intelligent
about would Jesus have ever gone to Comron
or would he have picked up on some of the ideas
of the so-called S scenes and were they S scenes
and so forth, we'll do all of that.
I'm gonna recommend certain books,
including the latest edition of this,
which you should have, it's in paperback, it's cheap.
And other books that are not required for the course.
The only thing required for the course
is you have to have access to reading the Dead Sea Scrolls.
But some of that you can even get online.
But I'm gonna recommend that you buy this one paperback book,
which is the Dead Sea Scrolls in English.
I mean, if you're taking a course on the Dead Sea Scrolls
and you go, well, I don't really wanna own them.
It might not be the course for you.
You know, it'd be like you're taking Mark.
I don't really wanna read Mark.
I just wanna hear Taber talk.
Well, again, we wanna delve in and you're gonna love it.
It's a college course that I teach.
It's pretty high level stuff, but don't be scared away.
It is so interesting.
Look, repeat after me.
Apocalyptic, new covenant, prepare the way
on the wilderness, messianic, baptism
for forgiveness of sins, all things in common.
Prayers for sacrifice, the temple's a den of thieves.
Who am I describing there?
The Jesus movement or the Dead Sea Scrolls?
Both.
Now you go, oh, so you're saying they're different.
I mean, every Dead Sea Scrolls scholar says,
don't think Jesus is in the scrolls.
Don't think, you know, don't go with Eisenman and so forth.
Well, Jesus isn't in the scrolls in my opinion.
Neither is James.
But what we have is this precious collection
of documents hidden in caves for almost 2,000 years
that were discovered in 1947 on.
And you might not be aware that Dead Sea Scrolls
were found before that in the time of Origen,
the church father, who's third century,
late second, early third.
Scrolls were found, guess what, in caves,
in jars out by Jericho.
And Origen's all excited about it.
Some just came to mind though, Dr. Tabor.
Like, I think this course will be the perfect one
for me to use footage we took when we were there in Cuma.
Oh, yeah.
This will work perfectly with that.
You can put in, when I'm talking about, you know,
Cave Forest, the Mother Load Cave, and you can zoom in,
even, I know you got really good shots,
even zooming in, into the cave.
And then you guys went up and walked in some of these caves.
Cave 11, yeah.
So we'll add, man, we'll work on this.
We'll add supplements.
I mean, you're gonna be able to hear me talk
about the latrines that I discovered there.
That are exclusive for life.
Yeah, why is going to the toilet such a big deal?
You know, and because you gotta go outside the camp,
but you can't go outside the camp on the Sabbath,
because you're not allowed to walk more than 1,000 cubits,
and yet the toilets are 2,000, so what are you gonna do?
I'm not gonna tell you now, but in the course.
So we'll do all that.
The other one I wanna do is apocalypticism through the ages.
This is the second course.
Man, this is what I specialize in.
I'm gonna specialize in Paul.
You got this written down, right?
But apocalypticism through the ages.
I wanna take four or five apocalyptic movements.
I'm gonna quickly hit the Dead Sea Scroll movement
and the Jesus movement.
Now, I know when I hit the Jesus movement,
we're talking Mark 13.
All of your beloved former brethren
in the Preterus movement will be like,
well, that didn't fail.
Okay, we can hit that a little bit,
but I really wanna go on.
I wanna do the Montanus,
and that's an Asia Minor into the second century.
I wanna pick up with what people think Augustine
and some of the church fathers,
they're all settled down in the world
and the church is gonna go on
and the church is the kingdom.
These guys are all calculating stuff from Daniel.
Did you know this has gone on now for 2,000 years?
Actually, if you throw in Daniel, 2200 years.
People have been counting times
and how many days of this and that,
and then we'll get up into the Middle Ages
and then we'll do the Enlightenment
and how people begin to think we have to be on the cusp
and we'll get into the modern world.
And I'm even gonna end with Waco and David Kourish,
who's a very interesting figure that I've studied a lot
and many of the people who've looked at my channel
and my blog know we just had the anniversary
last week, the 30th anniversary.
So that course is gonna be good.
Apocalypse, apocalypticism through the age.
And I think we're gonna call it perils, pitfalls and rewards.
And others, there's some pitfalls, there's some perils.
But also, why would you even study Apocalypse?
If it's just a failed idea,
why even study it?
Like, does it have any cultural value today?
Other than going, look at these idiots, they missed it again.
I think it does, I actually think it's powerful symbols.
It's the kind of thing that crossing gets into.
The last lecture, I think we're gonna have to have 10
for this course, not seven,
because it's gonna be pretty in-depth.
But the last one will be on the relevance of apocalyptic.
A lot of people write in comments on this Waco stuff.
Come on, you know, who cares about all this stuff?
Not the government attacking the branch divisions
and all that, but like all these ideas of prophecy,
they've always been wrong, throw the Bible in the trash.
What a waste of time to even think about it.
Well, then why do you have a channel
that's getting near 100,000 subscribers?
You say, well, you're just knocking the Bible.
No, you're not, you're doing all kinds of things
with the Bible.
You have people on that believe the Bible on some level.
Top scholars like Dale Ellison is my favorite.
And I think even Don Crossin says he's a Christian, right?
I think he identifies this one.
Bart doesn't, but then I don't.
I don't take those labels,
but I like being a human being, it's kind of fun.
But anyway, that's my label.
Tabor is a homo sapien, that's my label.
But anyway, I wanna, you know, we're gonna do that.
And let me show you this,
cause I wanna do archeology.
This is back to the kumran, not apocalyptic,
but it's kind of apocalyptic.
This is a piece of pottery from kumran.
I gotta find out where my camera is.
There you go.
It looks like a doggy tree.
Can you smell it?
Can you smell it?
I, I, I, hold on, I smell it.
Oh my gosh, I smell it through the microphone.
It's burnt.
It's burnt.
That's burnt pottery from kumran.
And it's, see, can you tell it was the lip of a,
kind of a little jar, right?
So this was burnt in the year 60.
I'm sorry, 67.
It would be the summer of 70, it was burnt
as the 10th legion came down on their way to Masada.
And I just, you know, this,
I didn't steal this or anything.
They're all over the place.
But it's from the, it's a first century jar.
And I'm also going to talk about the sons of light
and the sons of darkness, lots.
And according to kumran, God, God's like this.
For you, Derek, let's see.
I'm going to see where you come out right now.
Okay.
I'm going to pick one of these.
You tell me, you want to pick the right or left hand.
What do you want?
You just showed it to me.
Do it again, because I saw it.
Well, I'm trying to get it.
I don't want to cheat, you know?
I'm going to go with the left.
My left hand, this one.
Sure, let's do that one, sure, with the wedding band.
I can't see it.
I'm the son of darkness.
I knew it!
But guess what?
Everybody has 10 lots.
So I need, I don't have 10 here.
According to kumran, you have 10 lots and you get five.
Possibly light, five darkness.
You could have, I don't know, in your case, Derek,
you could have nine dark and one light.
Nobody is all dark.
Like, chances are, when you go like this,
cosmically, you're going to get,
and that will account for all the varieties of people.
These guys believed that.
Did you know they did phrenology too?
Everybody said, I love the Dead Sea Scrolls, they're so great.
And what do you think of the bumps on your head?
Because that's going to give your character,
according to the Dead Sea Scrolls.
So we're going to get into everything.
It's amazing stuff.
And I love it.
I love it.
It's crazy and it's good.
It's bad, it's ugly, it's wonderful.
It's all, so.
So the third course, we're not really sure yet
exactly where we're going to go with that.
I want to do a gospel though.
I think we should return.
You know, we've done Mark and I think we should do
either Matthew Rewriting Mark or Luke Rewriting Mark
or I'm actually thinking of John.
Because everybody thinks, oh, John, you know,
Mark's early, John hasn't got attention
and there's whole, I'm part of a seminar
at the Society of Biblical Literature
we've been meeting for years now.
I call it the rehabilitation of the gospel of John
as a historical source.
And I would like to look at John again
and show you the parts of John and unpack it.
It's the favorite gospel of Christians through the ages.
Probably because the Greek is about
like a third grade level, you know, like light, darkness,
good, evil, you know, big words like that, walk, do.
But within that is a framework and other material.
And you know, everybody says, oh, John,
he's the one that really does the divinity of Christ.
Listen to this, John 17, Jesus Prayer,
that they may know you, the only true God,
talking to the Father, the only true God,
that's a very Shema thing, you know, Shema, I, Reseal.
And Jesus Christ whom you sent.
And everybody, oh, but it's pre-existent in John.
Well, well, you know, if we do, John,
I think I'm leaning towards John.
John's understudied by people
that get into the academic study of early Christianity,
not scholars, you know, all of us have to look into John.
So I'm thinking we'll do one of the gospels.
So those three, we're gonna record them in June.
I'm gonna come out and visit you for a week
and we'll record those and have a lot of fun.
And...
I'll get the studio set up too,
because I plan on making some changes in here
and how I have it set up, but we'll...
And you can drink root beer and I'll drink Sam Adams.
And the courses are just gonna get better and better.
Every beer later, the course.
Because I like Sam Adams.
I'm a Boston Lager guy, so.
Yeah.
Well, I've got some super chats.
Do you wanna jump to that?
Yeah, let's do it.
Why not?
Okay, all right.
I really appreciate the support, everybody.
MNag and the house, really appreciate the super sticker.
Didn't see a question or comment,
just show in love on the first one there.
Appreciate you.
Doc Pluromonata's back.
Is Mark openly discrediting Peter?
The parable of the sower as failed discipleship,
denying Jesus, demoting him by calling him Simon, et cetera.
Pretty sure 16.9 originally said,
Peter, now go home and get your tackle box.
Oh, boy.
Yeah, and this is a good question in light of
using the patristic, the patristic story
that this is Peter's companion or Peter's scribe.
And it's like, would Peter be saying,
like would this, would a scribe be saying this about Peter?
It's tough to imagine that, but anyway.
Yeah, it touches on quite a few things
that that does go directly to one of the questions
I'll address on Sunday, an aspect of that.
And actually two things I see in Doc's question
that we'll touch on.
The whole papious thing about Mark
is an interpreter of Peter and he recorded things
as best he could, almost like how he heard it.
It's almost like he's remembering it or something.
And he might not have got the order right
because Luke kind of says, I'm gonna get the order right.
But actually Luke, that word that you translated in order
can also mean accurately.
And most people want it to be order,
like, oh, he just moved some things around,
but Luke doesn't move much thing.
You know, if you look at a column of stories in Mark
and how Luke incorporates them, they're pretty well,
he didn't have a big problem with the order.
He adds, he folds in his things.
But so basically that little quote,
it's from Eusebius who's a fourth century historian
who's quoting papious, we have these fragments from papious.
And then my favorite thing about that whole passage
is Eusebius says, but papious wasn't a very bright guy.
You know, he didn't have much perception of stuff.
And the reason is he doesn't like his millennialism.
Papious is waiting to like have vines yielding gallons
of one grape will yield like five bottles of wine
and so forth.
He's picturing the millennium, you know, very materially.
And Eusebius is like, no, no,
the church is the kingdom.
We're already in the, you know,
there's no reign of Christ on earth.
Are you kidding?
Earth, the earth is like negative, you know,
to these dualistic people later.
Poor papious, he's like, man,
I just thought it's gonna be great.
We're gonna eat and drink and, you know,
had peace and justice on the earth
and it'll be like fun to be here.
So anyway, we'll talk about some of that.
So no, he's not an interpreter of Peter for sure,
but that's not what Doc's asking.
Is he openly discrediting Peter?
Yes, but as a symbol of the disciple who doesn't get it.
And there's Mark in my view is,
and I present this in the course quite a bit.
He wants you to enter into the experience
of hearing Jesus, hearing the explanations Jesus gets
so that it's kind of like putting you on
in the exam room when you read Mark
because you've got to pass at the end
and I've got to ask you,
well, what is the secret of the kingdom then, Derek?
And, you know, it's kind of like a final exam question.
And if you say, well, man,
it's all these buildings will finally become ours
and we'll sit on thrones, ruling and reigning forever
and we'll have all power and glory
then a buzzer will go be wrong, you know?
So Peter in a way stands for all of us, I think.
Mark, it's difficult to, you know,
some people have said about my course,
will you present it like it's a drama or a play
that he just made it up and has these literary motifs?
Well, that's because it's skillfully written.
He didn't just say, oh, let me tell you about Jesus,
I got a few ideas here.
Here's what really happened
and I'm just gonna write out.
No, he's not doing that.
He's setting you up.
He's got the basic story in mind,
the rejected suffering servant
who brings redemption to the world.
Okay, that's his basic core.
And then he's gonna tell you the story
of how he got basically smashed and crushed
and utterly defeated.
And then you get the climax,
surely this was the Son of God
when he's dead, forsaken by God.
Well, Peter right before that has denied him
the night before, three times.
That's Mark's story.
Nobody can take that story out.
I mean, you just can't do it.
There's certain story,
like the Gospels move things around,
but some things you cannot take out that are in Mark.
I mean, you can edit a little bit here and there,
but in Peter's failure into denying Jesus three times,
but you've got to look at the circumstances of that
in the passion narrative, as it's called,
and realize that he's basically every man, every woman.
If anyone would follow
is basically the line of work.
Now, it ends with,
and I'm not gonna reveal this right now, sorry,
but the young man running away
when Jesus is arrested,
and it says, and they all forsook him and fled.
And then it tells you about a guy who fled
and was naked, right?
Boy, what do you do with a weird story like that?
You could just say, well, you know,
there's a guy there with no underclothes on
and he ran away naked.
Somebody grabbed his garment.
Oh, really?
Is that what we're getting here?
Just a little historical update on streaking in the garden,
or is there something more here?
And I think there is something more,
and we'll talk about that on Sunday.
Let me see what else he says.
I don't know if 169 said that, Doc,
but I do know that the Gospel of Peter,
which is very, very similar to Mark,
the last chapter that we have.
In fact, I've got it right here.
I always like to read it and not just paraphrase it
because it's so cool.
You know, it breaks off.
I stuck it in my, at the last page of Mark in my Bible
where I would always have it.
Let's see if it's here.
I think it's here.
Yep.
Hey, listen to this.
This is just a little fragment
of the Gospel of Peter at the end.
It says,
the woman fled from the tomb frightened.
That's first 57 of the last chapter.
Now it was the final day of unleavened bread.
The FBI during Waco didn't know
that Passover last eight days, right?
So David Kouris said,
I'm gonna come out after Passover,
and they checked their Jewish calendar.
They weren't Jewish for the most part.
You know, they're good old boys in the FBI.
I'm not saying they're no Jews,
but it wasn't the culture.
And they go like, according to the Jews,
I checked with a rabbi and Passover was last night.
And he said he would come out after Passover.
So he'll come out tomorrow.
The Passover is eight days
because you have seven days of unleavened bread
plus the Passover evening.
So it was the final day of unleavened bread.
Now, how do I, that is seven days after Jesus,
the tomb is found empty.
Seven days later, and the women have fled.
Listen to this, this to me,
this is the most mind blowing text in early Christianity.
And many went out returning to their homes
since the feast was over.
Now it doesn't just mean people,
but in general, you go home when the feast is over.
So code lasts eight days.
You go, and if you come early,
it's a day of atonement
or actually Rosh Hashanah day of atonement,
feast of tabernacles and so forth.
But we 12 disciples of the Lord,
notice he says 12, not 11, isn't that interesting?
We 12 disciples of the Lord,
because you know, Judas shouldn't be there.
And I don't think he is.
I think they've appointed somebody already.
We're weeping and sorrowful
and each one sorrowful because of what had come to pass.
Wait a minute, Derek,
what has come to pass in the past week
since the empty tomb?
Appearances of Jesus talking to him,
seeing him, guys on the road meeting him,
eating with him, him saying, touch my wounds.
So why are we weeping and sorrowful
because of what has come to pass?
We departed to home and I, Peter and my brother,
Andrew, having taken our nets, went off to the sea
and there was with us Levi of Alpheus,
whom the Lord and then it breaks off.
So this is not the ending of Mark.
I think Mark ends just like it ends.
Mark leaves you at the empty tomb,
but Peter picks it up first, the Gospel of Peter
and says they went back to Galilee and despair.
They lost their best friend, they lost their leader.
They lost the Messiah, the dead Messiah.
What are we gonna do?
We all ran away.
We didn't take up a cross and follow
like we were supposed to.
And if Mark had continued,
I think you would have the recovery of faith in the Galilee.
How do I know?
Because he tells, Mark does say, the young man in the tomb,
not an angel, a young man says, go to the Galilee.
You will see him as he said.
Okay.
And Matthew says there's a mountain they go to
that he told him to go to.
Now, whether Mark knows that or not, I don't know,
but Matthew seems to know it.
So, I don't know if that completely calling him Simon.
Yeah, right.
Simon, if Peter means the rock,
then he's not much of a rock anymore, is he?
So, faithless.
I also think there's probably a play on the words
having Simon from Sirene carry the cross
where Jesus or Simon Peter doesn't carry that cross
that he was supposed to carry.
So, there might be some like playful things happening
in this, which is making me also go,
this literally happened.
I mean, there's more reasons for me to think
that they're being a little bit fanciful
with the writing in Mark
than to take it verbatim historically,
what actually occurred and stuff like that, so.
Right.
I will remind you that,
I will remind you that of the ushawari of Simon of Sirene
and his son, Alexander, not Rufus,
but Alexander, two sons mentioned only by Mark
that has been discovered.
And it's said, Hebrew University in the lab there.
And we weren't able, if you and I go back on a private tour,
I can take you to all these things
that are kind of hidden away.
You can't do it with groups.
We can go look at Masada stuff that's in the museum,
not the public museum, but in the archives.
We can go see some of these ushawaris
that are in the basement of the Israel Museum and so forth.
Now you're talking.
Yeah.
Now you're talking.
The inside stuff.
IMNAG is back with an actual statement here.
I would love a convention.
I would fully support it as well.
I believe it's something people need to hear.
I think it'd be great.
I don't know how many scholars we could get to come.
I would come, but a lot of times scholars,
won all their expenses paid
and they won honorariums to do things.
And I'm not saying I'm such a great guy,
but I would come just to hang out with everybody
because I think it would be fun.
But if we did have a bunch of the main YouTube hosts
come together and then have panels and things
where we all hash these things out,
it'd be like a YouTube ancient religion-type gathering.
I think it would be very cool.
And you could do it cheaply that way
where people basically need to come up
with where to stay, RBNB, get a group rate on hotels
and you need a meeting room.
And then you just need people to voluntarily come.
And I think all the YouTube hosts would come
because they're gonna sign people up for their channels
and get to talk to people that are their donors.
So...
There's all sorts of stuff that can be done.
Well, think about it.
I think it would be very cool.
And then you could have a few very key topics
for people to talk about.
Yeah, yeah.
Some ancient Mary, some scientific,
some early Christian, Dead Sea Scrolls and so on.
Heck yeah.
Good idea.
And MNAG, that is stuff we will be doing.
I'm fairly confident it's going to happen.
It's just a matter of when and where.
Well, you guys have created a phenomenon out there.
I'm telling you.
Yeah.
And it is hundreds of thousands of people
that are, you know, everybody doesn't always subscribe.
I mean, I can tell by my views.
I only have 30,000 subscribers,
which I'm certainly happy for.
But then I've got videos that have 600,000 views
and people are watching for longer than three seconds.
So, you know, you, Derek, are impacting,
well, several million people for sure.
And a lot of them have really studied.
That's what I like.
They're not just, you know,
like a water spider going over the water.
Oh, that's interesting.
Derek, oh, there's David.
No, they're more like, wait a minute.
We're going swimming.
Listen to these scholars that he's brought in,
these top scholars.
And Neil's doing it and other people are doing it
that you're associated with.
And I'm a light comer to the party, but I like it.
You're an early, you're early to the party.
Yeah, but you're my new classroom.
You know, before I was 10, 50 people in a class
and now I have like thousands.
Yes, that's the goal.
That's the goal.
Steve Mason made a wonderful remark
that was inspiring for me.
The very first interview we did after seven days,
he wrote me an email and Steve does not write small emails.
Steve writes emails.
And I'm like, okay, he is, so I opened it up
and he wrote this fantastic inspirational email to me
that was just thorough.
And he said, I have more people wanted voluntarily
to click and watch me talk for three and a half hours.
He goes on, right?
He's very thorough and takes his time
and I love that about him meticulous.
And he said, more people watched this in seven days
than I've ever taught in the 17 years
while I was a professor.
Absolutely. Absolutely.
And the thing is they're more prepared than our students.
I hate to slam the students, basically.
I had some, like we talk about our mutual friend, Ryan,
that hooked you and I up and introduced us.
I mean, I always had two or three dozen like him
that have taken a lot of courses really delving in.
But the vast majority of class of 50,
half of them are like, when's the test?
What's going to be on it?
What's the grade?
But a few are going, man,
I want to figure out early Christianity.
Tabor taught, he does archeology, does history.
I want to travel with them, I want to go to a dig.
So there was a minority, but with YouTube,
I can just tell by the emails I get
and my Patreon people and so forth,
they're in it seriously.
Like they really, and even if they're not
Bible believers anymore, which many of them once were,
it's still important culturally to try to look back
and see where you've come and, you know,
what you were taught growing up and where you are now.
And also for our culture to be able to talk intelligently
about these great cultural ideas
that are the pillars of our whole civilization.
You know, whether it's the 10 commandments or Moses
or the Bible or the prophets or Jesus or Paul or whatever.
And yeah, I just uploaded today a two hour video on Paul.
You go, God, Tabor, you've talked about Paul so much
on my, yeah, there it is right there.
Two hour video on Paul with Christopher Enoch.
And he lets me talk, you know,
basically he just like runs the camera for me
and he's very good, very good.
And I like, I like, he kind of eggs me along in a nice way,
but basically I just blabber, blabber, blabber,
blabber about Paul.
But I called it, what do we really know?
Because we did a lot on method, you know, like what,
like they're four Pauls, I think you know that Derek,
they're four Pauls, if you read my book, Paul and Jesus.
So which Paul are you talking about?
They said, well, he's on the road to Damascus, blah, blah,
blah, so where do you read that?
That's only in the book of X, right?
Yeah.
So there's actually four layers of Paul
you have to distinguish.
So what do we really know?
And should we trust the letters
and did somebody named, what, Piso write them
or something like that?
You get all kinds of these things out there.
Anyway, but you know, we have people
who will listen for two hours.
I had somebody write me and said,
I walk every day for an hour and a half to two hours.
So please put up two hour videos so that I can just like,
you know, do my exercise thing and listen
because you can listen to mine usually.
You know, you don't have to watch me and my Facebook.
You can just listen.
And I think half the people are listening
because they're doing the dishes
or they're changing a baby or they're driving
or they're walking or exercising or even at work
when it gets boring and the boss isn't around.
Yeah, stick those earphones in.
I get a lot of people like that that watch us
while they're at work.
They're probably having a sneak back and forth.
But yeah, we got one more super chat.
I just want to hit this.
And they do want to show the course
just to tease people a little and.
Yeah, I hope people will come.
Yeah, so Dr. Romana says swoon alert.
Why is Mark inconsistent when Joseph of Arimathea
asked Pilate to take down Jesus's Soma from the cross
while Pilate agrees to allow his, what is this?
Toma?
Toma and Soma.
It's two different words.
Pre-planned resuscitation efforts with medical spices.
Ha, ha, ha, huge shown field.
1960s, the Passover plot,
but it's actually a theory that Switzer covers
in the quest for the story of Jesus.
It's called the swoon theory.
That Jesus, he knew that he had to suffer,
but he didn't want to die.
I mean, you could present it several ways,
but this would be the sincere guy.
So he wants to suffer to the point of death, like Jonah.
Like, if you read Jonah,
he enters the belly of the fish, which is called Shio.
So the gates of Shio, he says, are closing on me.
So that's Jesus on the cross.
But at the last moment, the gates open
and he gets to come out.
So it is an idea that people have suggested.
It certainly accounts for the empty tomb
because he would have revived
and some have him traveling to Kashmir in Senegal.
There's a grave of Jesus.
You know, I'm gonna do this with you sometime.
I've got nine tombs of Jesus now.
I keep getting more, nine tombs of Jesus.
There's one in Japan.
There's one in India.
There are three or four in Jerusalem.
You know, most...
Not one in my backyard too.
Well, these are serious though.
And there's one up in the...
A minor townally.
I think I'm the only one who's ever discovered it
or been there, but it's a rabbinic description
of the tomb of Yeshua bin Honduzri, Jesus the Nazarene
in the Galilee, outside Sfatt,
which is Safed in English, just north of the city of Galilee.
And it's in my book, the Jesus Dynasty.
No, we didn't go there.
You and me went to one though
that we got like practically kicked out of.
Yeah, but this is now, this is a tomb for...
This is Isaac bin Luria, the Ari.
Okay.
The most respected, mystical Jew in history,
who says, I visit the tomb of Yeshua Honduzri
and I pray there
because he's one of the righteous ones.
So here you have a Jewish rabbi calling Yeshua,
a Tzadik, a righteous one.
And what does that do for this idea that people have
that Jesus was cursed by all Jewish groups?
And so here's a mystical Jewish group
that is actually visiting his grave in the Galilee.
At least they think it's his grave.
Right.
That's it.
That's in my book, the Jesus Dynasty.
I have a picture of me at the grave.
I should take...
Usually we can't do it with tours.
It's kind of hard to get to,
but there are so many things we can do, Derek.
Yeah, yeah.
Doc, thank you for that.
Like really appreciate the super chat and the fun.
You're always fun and witty.
Oh, Christine Elise sent a super chat too.
I love the long videos.
Thank you guys.
Great, Christine.
I'm glad you like the long videos.
That's weird.
We have like people at work, by the way, at work.
Working right now.
I'm at work.
I'm calling your boss.
Hold on.
I hope these aren't the people that Microsoft
and everybody's laying off by the thousands.
But...
Right?
Let me...
And they go, we've noticed no change in productivity
since we fired those 40,000 people.
Mythician and James Tabor allows you to multitask
so you can keep your money, keep your job.
Here is the inside of the course that we have so far
on Mark and he has a lot written here.
You get the PDFs, you can just listen to it.
Look at that map.
Now, those map, that is a map we had made for the course.
Look at that.
Wow.
There's maps.
We go, obviously, reading recommendations
where you go in and you give sources
that you recommend people to do.
Here is the first live Q&A session that we already did
so people can actually go listen to that.
Boy, Ryan is doing such a good job with this layout.
This is so professional.
She really did an amazing job and you go in depth.
I mean, this is fun.
It's an experience you get to go through.
There's seven lectures, just showing everybody.
And then as you go, you'll see your progress.
It tells you what percentage you've taken the course
and stuff.
And then you get study notes and everything.
Right.
This Sunday, you're doing a live Zoom Q&A
for the people who've signed up for the course.
I've pinned that in the comments
in case you haven't already done that.
And if you miss it this Sunday,
in terms of being there live,
we are gonna make it just like this one
where it's going to be recorded
and it will be up in the course for you
so you can check it out.
We're doing three more courses just to tease everybody.
We have three more coming with James
and we're gonna go deep into those.
So be on the lookout for that.
Oh, did I share?
Hold on, did I share the...
Oh, you can go to the website, mvp-courses.com.
I have other courses we just launched yesterday
which hasn't even, we haven't updated the website.
Here's the one creating Jesus
why Mark's Gospel was forgotten with Dr. Tabore.
The one we just launched yesterday
was with Dr. Kip Davis on real Israelite religions,
like plural because there's different voices
and the material evidence and what's going on.
I don't know how you do all that you do, Derek.
And I'm not just trying to flatter you here.
My God, it's like editing all these courses
and it's amazing.
Every time I pick up my phone,
you have another damn notification of a video.
I can't keep up with you.
And I'm not watching the short.
So I'm talking about the regular stuff you put out.
It's like angry.
Well, I do that, look, I'm working overtime.
And I know that the way I'm looking at it now,
this is our like private conversation being public,
but I really think it's important.
Work now, I'll be able to rest later.
I think that the momentum of growing this for my family,
for everybody really to learn things that aren't out there,
eventually one day I know I'll be able to rest,
relax, retire, and...
Are you talking about when you die?
When I get older, you know,
I'll still be a weird nerd.
I was joking, of course.
No, I was thinking of the verse, Derek.
Blessed are the YouTubers who die on the Lord.
They rest from their labors
and their videos do follow them.
I might have to perform a swoon act
where people think I died, but I'm really...
Nah, you don't wanna do it.
You continue on, but I don't think I could let go
of this stuff as long as I'm alive.
I love diving into all of it, so.
Well, we're creating a record.
It's a wonderful record of searching and ideas.
I mean, the YouTube world of the study of religion
is an amazing record.
This is a new thing, if you think about it.
This didn't exist 10 years ago.
How old are you, Dr. Tabor?
How old am I?
95.
Shut up, man.
Yeah, I already know.
I've been like, no, I'm Chomsky.
You know, you see him all the time,
and I think he's 93, and he sounds like he's 20,
and he just, oh my God, the guy is just amazing.
No, I'm 77.
77, so I'm 34 now.
So it's double my life and some.
One day, you, who are watching, are gonna be like,
there's that guy, and I'm gonna be your age
talking about this material,
probably as someone who's learned the languages by then who...
And you're gonna go.
A few years ago there was this elderly man
I worked with, oh, we knew each other well,
and he has some of the best stuff on Paul.
Let me show you on my channel, so.
Yeah, look at me back when I was a stud.
Now I don't know what to say, you know?
But yeah, this is history we're making,
and I hope that more people continue to show interest in it,
and I think people really do.
Well, I know my colleagues have appreciated you
and others who are helping them
to reach that broader audience.
You mentioned Steve, and it's really a wonderful thing,
I think.
One other thing I wanna mention on comments,
a lot of times people will say to us,
because we write books, they go,
oh, so pushing your book, are you?
I just wanna comment on that.
Look, you know, here's some books I've written.
Push the books, James, push the hell out of them.
So why would I not, if I say, oh, I covered that in my book,
well, my blog is free, and it covers
a lot of the stuff in the books.
But if I say, you know, we'll get this
because I tell you about the tomb in the Galilee,
you know, oh, he's trying to sell his book.
Look, if you spend five years writing a book
with all of your research you put into it,
it's not like you wanna sell it.
I mean, if people knew how little you make on books,
seriously, you know, you don't even make a dollar on a book.
You need to be a New York Times bestseller.
Even then, yeah, you don't, you know,
this book sells for like, let's see,
I don't know anymore, but maybe $17.
Well, all the money was on right now.
$17, and it's my, the world teaser,
like 50 cents or something, you know, it's not like,
but so why do I want people to buy the books?
Because I put into it everything that I studied
for 30 years on Jesus.
So obviously I want you to read.
You don't write a book in order to look at it.
You write a book because you want people to read it.
So of course scholars want people to read their books,
but the motives are not mercenary primarily.
You know, we all have ways we make a living
and I'm retired now.
But the books are, unless you're Dan Brown
and you're not gonna make a living on books, you know,
but if you spent all of this time coming up
with these things that you consider to be valuable
in making a good historical cultural contribution,
then of course you would want people to read it.
Yeah, of course.
I mean, everybody I know that even self-publishers
of book, they tell me all the time,
well, Dr. Tabor, I wrote a book.
Here's the PDF, would you have time to read it?
Well, I'm not gonna write them back and say,
well, why would I read your book?
You read the book because the person is giving you something
that they've spent an amazing time on trying
to work something out, you know?
Right.
I guess I could use that to say about the courses.
Like for me, usually we value things.
We have to put effort or put money into even,
but it's my way of drawing attention to the internet world
and getting academics to wanna come
and give their time to us here at MythVision in VP courses.
So it's a way of letting the audience,
so you're not just handing out like, here's a freebie.
I'm just, here's some donated money.
I'm just giving 10% to the church for the guy
to stand behind the pulpit and preach.
You're gaining something in return by the hard work
that some academic who had to spend hundreds of thousands
to go get their, you know, their expertise in the field
or whatever and spent 20, 30, 40 years.
Like you have literally exhausted in this material,
I think 40 or 50 years for you.
You're pulling books out from the 70s.
I, this is the first book that I was,
let's see, it was published in 85, 86, my first book.
So, but anyway, that was my dissertation.
And I've made 73 trips to Israel.
Those weren't free, you know.
I mean, it's just, I get it.
It's funny, we don't need to even be,
but it's worth mentioning it
because some people just imagine that like,
just everything is just,
the reason that was on my mind,
I did a three part thing on Waco
on Bart Ehrman's blog last week.
And one person, and obviously,
I don't even know the person's name,
but asked some question and it's complicated.
Like, did David Courage take all these women in Hawaii?
You know, and I said, well,
he had a certain way of whether it was sincere
or not, a biblical reasoning about that,
his justification for polygamy and so forth.
And so I said, and I have a whole chapter
on that in my book.
And you know what the comment back was?
Oh, there you go again, trying to sell your book.
What am I supposed to like, repeat?
Yeah.
And a blog post that's limited to 200-
He's unethical for selling a book.
How dare he?
No, like he's asked me a very complex question
that took me over two years to figure out,
interviewing people, including some of David's wives
and so forth, trying to figure it out.
And so, yeah, I put it in the book.
So when I say, yeah, check the book,
it's cause, yeah, I put all that together
for you in the book.
You know what you should do from now on, Dr. Tabor?
Let me know where it is, and then we'll send the hounds
and the hounds will come and let them know,
you're damn right, he's saying by the book.
I mean, you gotta own it after a while.
It's like, do I really speak to them and try to explain?
They're not really there for you to try and explain it.
They're just trying to mock or find a way
to make you pigeonhole you or poison the well
or something, he wants to just sell books.
Honestly, that's why I'm just shameless.
Hey, get the scholars books, show them you care,
cause that's a way that the audience,
like when you find out Amazon is notifying you and saying,
hey, you sold like 50 books yesterday.
Oh, I did an interview with MythVision yesterday.
I think I'll spend more time over on MythVision
to give them, they care about what I have done.
Derek is not ashamed of saying,
buy the course, buy the books, help the scholars,
let them know, join their Patreon, message them,
email them, that is all.
It's like the old saying, all books rise.
For all of us, our knowledge rises,
our opportunities rise, all our connections rise.
And the main thing about a book is like,
well, why would you write a book
if you don't want people to read it?
Imagine, I wrote a book and there's one copy,
got it right here.
It's fabulous, it's all my work on Jesus for 40 years.
I'm not going to publish it.
I like reading it, it's nice, it's my book.
You'd be like, the guy is great, you know,
but he doesn't want anyone to read it.
I mean, it's ridiculous.
So, okay, well.
One more here in Mags Back Again.
Are you kidding me?
When it comes to understanding what you're going to believe
in and arrange to life accordingly,
then the value of that is priceless.
Absolutely, absolutely.
I think so too.
And look, you hit it exactly.
Most of the people doing that are baiting you for a response
or they don't like your quote, liberal approach.
And I redefined that in that video I put up today.
I give a long thing about,
I'm the most conservative guy you've ever heard
because I'm careful with the text, that's conservative.
I'm not a flaming liberal, it just flow,
throws it around and acts sloppy with it.
I'm the one who can tell you,
oh, Matthew took that out or Luke added this or whatever.
And it's not like,
because we need more information or less, no.
If they take something out, they don't like it, believe me.
And usually you can tell what they're up to.
So I like to know what they're up to
and I don't meet it in a bad way.
What is their vision of Jesus?
Matthew compared to Mark, so.
Jim Nag, thank you for the love.
Everybody in here, you are wonderful for hitting the likes
and just commenting and hanging out in the chat.
And Dr. Tabor wants to hang out with you tomorrow.
I pulled up the book, it's not 17, it's 1480
for the book, The Jesus Dynasty.
He has several books, ladies and gentlemen,
that he would love for you to read
and I would love to see you purchase on Amazon to show.
And don't turn this into a commercial for my books.
Ladies and gentlemen, one time offer,
better he's not included.
You really do need to check out his books.
They're on Audible as well, several of them.
And I've enjoyed them, the one on Paul and Jesus,
Jesus Discovery, Jesus Dynasty, interesting things.
Your angle on this whole thing is fun and different,
it's exciting.
Go to mvpcourses.com in the description.
His YouTube channel, go subscribe,
he just broke 30K subscribers.
You're gonna get me 10, I wanna get to 50 and I'm gonna rest.
I think by five o'clock today I should have that,
don't you think?
What are you looking for at 50 what?
I like to have 50,000 subscribers by five o'clock today.
In an hour maybe, I'll give you an hour
and you'll have 20 more thousand subscribers, no problem.
No problem.
Best way to get to our video,
I mean, who's not gonna go for that?
You gotta go watch that, his latest, greatest.
What do we really know about Paul and how do we know it?
Who is your daddy and what does he do?
And so you've got the inside of the course here,
creating Jesus, why Mark's gospel was forgotten.
Go take the course and see him Sunday
for a live Zoom meeting.
He's gonna be covering Q and A
and we're gonna be doing more courses down the road.
I love you everybody, thank you so much for hanging out
with us, I hope that this was an enjoyable stream.
Any final positive inspirational words,
like buying your book or something from you, Dr. Tavor?
No, I'm okay, I just, I look forward to all this,
all these things we're talking about there.
I'm as excited about this as I was, you know, 50 years ago,
so in my, when I was a kid, so, okay, thank you.
Do you see yourself in me, do you?
I see, I look at you two ways.
Let me see, what is important about Dr. Tavor?
Oh, absolutely, yeah, read that one aloud
and then I'll tell you how I'm gonna tell you
how I look at Derrick after.
Okay, what is important about Dr. Tavor's efforts and work
with the Branch Davidian in the 19th, 20th
and 21st century Christian sex is how they may give us
an insight into how Christianity developed?
Absolutely, I have an article, it's called from
Kumran to Waco, okay, it jumps.
Kumran Dead Sea Scrolls to Waco
and I show that the fundamental things that are operating
in the Dead Sea Scrolls all the way to,
and I just used Waco because I was involved in that,
show you how these groups work.
And I'll tell you something about this preterism business
because I wanna do with you, Derrick.
I don't know if it'll be a course or extended discussions,
but I kinda wanna shut the door on that
and try to show that when prophecy fails,
one of the reactions is to say it was fulfilled.
Another is to postpone it, just change the date,
slide it on down.
Another is to basically reinterpret all the symbols
so that they lose any kind of valence or meaning
so they could almost apply to anything.
That's sort of what the church did,
the beast of revelation, that's evil throughout the ages.
Putin is the beast and it becomes totally a historical.
So the preters are very historical,
they're stuck in 70, right, the year 70.
They're very historical,
but then in terms of what that really means,
it's just, and then I guess the typological thing
would be the third one I'm talking about.
The fourth is, I joke sometimes, it's just saying,
what the hell, I hate this stuff, I'm gonna go crazy,
I'm never reading Daniel or Revelation again
because it ruined my life.
I'm gonna just go read like the Sermon on the Mount.
And all of a sudden he realized, wait,
that's more apocalyptic than Daniel and Revelation.
So how am I gonna get out of this?
Yeah, the meat shell and hair at the earth.
Well, that sounds like-
Well, you need to go to Don Croson
because Croson is the man for saying,
okay, given all of this so-called liberal scholarship
and prophecy filled and all that,
are there cultural values
that we can still draw from this literature?
And he's learning from Schweitzer.
Remember, Schweitzer did not throw out the baby
with the bathwater, as we say.
Right.
He throws out the water, but he says,
you know, there's something here we need to keep.
And he heads for Africa and gets his MD degree.
Why?
Well, you know, it's 1906,
and he's thinking about the example of Jesus,
the failed Messiah,
but what he really taught in terms of a nonviolent way
for humans to get together and so forth.
And I think even with our friend, Paul,
so many people hate Paul,
but you know, he did write 1 Corinthians 13
that a lot of people use at weddings and so forth, right?
About love.
And he wrote things like whatsoever things are lovely,
whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are,
you know, he can spin out some good lines here and there.
But he also tells you, don't get married,
don't go into business, don't worry if you're a slave.
God forbid you try to do a sex change
if you're a man or a woman,
because it's all gonna be okay very quickly.
And the things that Paul says would change very quickly
did not change.
And therefore Paul's not a preterist.
He died without seeing it,
still expecting it to come, but it did not happen.
It didn't happen.
That's what I want to get into with you too,
because that's the same, that's my conclusion on it.
And we'll even talk about N.T. Wright,
who has a very sophisticated version
of the same kind of thing.
Exactly, yeah.
And we got one more here.
Arez Aurelian, any recommended order
when reading the books?
The books of my books?
Oh, my books, yeah.
Yeah, I would, if you're interested in Jesus,
I would start with the Jesus dynasty
in the new Jesus and Paul,
and then Paul's a center paradise,
and then the Jesus discovery,
which is the archeology of the Jesus movement.
And then I also have a Waco book that is on Waco.
I have a book called A Noble Death
that is on suicide and martyrdom, Death by Choice,
which includes Masada and other things.
That's an important book for the study of ethics.
Do we have the right to choose death?
It's in our culture now, we talk about assisted death,
you know, and it's legal in Canada,
not legal in the United States.
Should that be the case?
Is it suicide if somebody chooses death
in a circumstance that would be heroic and so forth?
So I've got that book.
My translation of Genesis is always fun to...
So I've got a variety of things,
but my big thing coming out is a year from now,
the lost Mary, how the Jewish mother of Jesus
became the virgin mother of God.
Well, mother of God, are you kidding me?
Yeah.
That was the transition.
The Jewish mother of Jesus wasn't even a Christian.
I don't think she's Jewish.
And I think I can name eight of her kids.
So she's not perpetually a virgin
and no married woman should be.
That would be an annulment of a marriage.
If a marriage is a consummated, it's not a marriage.
That's true in any culture.
You could have a partnership, but it's not a marriage.
So have you ever thought about that?
Say, well, Mary was married to Joseph.
Well, that's why Matthew says he knew her not
until she had brought forth her son,
because otherwise it's not a marriage.
That's a tough one for Roman Catholics
and other theologians, but like anything can be explained
in the interest of dogma, anything.
That's kind of what you're uncovering here, actually.
And that's what this book says.
You know what I want to do is redeem the woman.
I love her.
Imagine being robbed of your religion, your sexuality,
your womanhood, your children.
You have three children, right?
Tell Ryan later.
Ryan, you're gonna go down in history 100 years to now.
Guess what?
You won't have any kids.
You won't even be married to Derek.
And you're gonna be, what?
We'll make some religion up that she wouldn't like.
You'll be a Zoroastrian priest
in the temple somewhere in Iran.
And she goes, that's nothing to do with me.
Nothing about Mary had anything to do with her.
So I'm bringing that woman home.
She's coming home to her Jewish heritage,
where she grew up, and these extraordinary boys
that she raised who changed the world.
Wow.
That's gonna be cool.
I can't wait to hear what you bring there, Dr. Taylor.
Yeah, and I don't know if I should say it, but...
I almost want you to, but I'm not going to.
No, I can't.
The person narrating the documentary
is a household name, don't guess.
I'm not.
You know me, I'm not.
Yeah, I don't want you to say I'm not going back on the show.
Let's just say he has the voice of God.
Now we gotta stop right now.
Okay, we're done.
Ladies and gentlemen, sign up for the Mark Course.
Get ready for more.
We thank you and never forget.
Ever.
We are MythVision.
Thank you so much, Dr. Taylor.
I'll see you soon.
Goodbye, everybody.
Take care.
See you Sunday, some of you.
See you Sunday for sure.
Let me find this outro here.
Where, which one do we want to go with?
I'm gonna do, let's do the most...
Got any of you have the guts to pay for blood?
I'm your Huckaburra.
I'm your Huckaburra.
I'm your Huckaburra.
