You buried God. You literally have put his body in a grave and have walked away.
In fact, let me be not so confrontational and say it isn't just skeptics or atheists who don't think God exists,
as Nietzsche talks about, we killed God, but it's also the believing Christian and those who want to make God immaterial,
that are actually making him, his physicality, his corporeal body, extinct.
Hey, hey, come here. Get closer so you can see. I see God. That's right. I actually see the God of the Bible.
And once you start seeing this God, you know how they have that saying, seeing is believing?
For me, seeing this God is actually disbelieving. The more I see God in the cultural historical context of where he comes from, he,
the more I realize how man made the entire idea is.
We still carry the baggage of the word God and we have redefined, renegotiated that definition or those terms that have been handed down for millennia.
You see, I did an amazing interview today if you did not watch it with Dan McClellan and Dan and I talked about the physical body of God in the scripture in the Hebrew Bible.
So many cannot even grasp this concept.
It's extremely powerful, an amazing idea to actually dive into because when you start to compare and see that it is also another ancient Near Eastern deity,
it's game changing on what a Christian apologist doing today with God.
What are those who say they believe the book or the words that come from this tradition? What are they doing to this God?
They're making this God even more unfalsifiable by putting him outside space and time and getting all philosophical with it.
Now, don't get me wrong. I think if philosophy plays a significant role in our understanding of the world and I think that science impacts that philosophy if we're going to do this properly over time.
At the end of the day, though, this deity, if it's put in its place where it is historically from in the culture and time.
If we look at the Egyptian deities, the Mesopotamian deities, Canaanite, you name it, Hittite, all the above, you have an actual corporeal deity.
We talked about this in depth.
See, Dr. Dan McClellan is one of the most articulate online scholars I know.
And I'm very thankful that he is on the front line of really playing down the bad ideas from people on TikTok and conspiracies because a lot of people wouldn't fact check any of this.
They would just believe what they see and I'm sure many do.
We dove deep into that.
If you didn't see the episode, I highly recommend it, but we dove deep into God and his setting and such.
And I had to ask him in light of the recent you are a liar video that people have been kind of accusing, being dishonest and lying and whatnot that I was actually told I was committing a non sequitur by assuming the ancient Near Eastern deity.
Just because this God was ancient Near Eastern and physical body and all the above, kind of using Mark S. Smith as a launching point.
Who's a Roman Catholic, by the way.
Yet he realizes where Yahwehism comes from and that it has a physical corporeal body and all of that.
Yet he's a Christian.
You know, that's his decision.
I don't draw that conclusion.
Don't see how one can do that if you're being consistently critical, unless you just like the tradition or whatnot, or it's a faith matter.
Look, I don't need evidence.
I just I just want to believe it because I like the message, whatever it is.
That might be the case.
However, they were trying to say that I said if the God of the Hebrew Bible doesn't exist, then God doesn't exist.
And therefore people should just be atheists.
And that's not what I was saying.
And I wasn't trying to make a non sequitur.
I'm trying to point out this God that you have this tradition for with this textual tradition is just like the rest of the deities.
Christians loved to use the word pagan and some still use it today to refer to those non Christian, non our group ideas in group out group kind of tribalism 101.
In that situation, pagan, well, the pagan idea would be what the ancient Near Eastern deity Yahweh is.
If you want to get technical, the pagans had gods that were physical who had sex with women did all the above.
You could say the Egyptian God Osiris and Isis this deity is no different.
So if you're looking at Osiris and Isis and the mythology surrounding this and seeing agricultural amenities to it, you see that it has certain walking like a duck talking like a duck aspects to it.
And then you see it also in Canaanite religion with ball cycle with L.
We know the ancient Israelites came out of Canaan and were Canaanites.
So we're seeing that we're seeing hit tight mythology with various things from low 10 the whole nine.
You see Leviathan in the Bible.
We also know the Mesopotamian mythology where we know that the authors of the Bible reacting to it in many ways.
And while Marduk was their head honcho around that period, it was Yahweh that is theirs or maybe L at the time, depending on whose source you're looking at.
And I'm looking at it and I'm going, well, why isn't Osiris true?
Well, why isn't this God true?
And, you know, I know there's always some type of, well, our God's true because if you look just at our material, we have the stronger case.
What's stronger case?
A bunch of claims, a bunch of people who believe things that has no precedence in my view on actually proving the point.
So I asked Dan and I get a little elaborate and his response is so cut through the baloney straight to the point.
I need a pause before I play that to just say this.
I really want a world of love.
I want a world where there's peace.
I want a world where there's empathy, where there's respect, where we're all on a venture of trying to discover truth, where we want to treat each other better,
no matter your sex, orientation, color, creed, belief, whatever.
And yes, I have gone on record even today again.
I don't care if at the end of the day a God concept or whatever helps you comfort you in this life.
That is totally fine.
In fact, that's cool.
I have no problem with that even though I don't buy the conclusion and I have my reasonings.
It's really the idea of using the biblical text to run around with this kind of, we're right.
Our beliefs are right.
Jesus resurrected from the dead and everyone else.
You have a mission.
Your duty is to go and convert the world and to get everybody to become a Christian as much as possible because you don't want what's going to happen to them in the end to occur.
And you love them.
You want to try and save them from this place of damnation that they are going to go to.
That is harmful.
I don't like the notion of having to push that.
Now, someone watching this might go, Derek, you're pushing your ideas on us.
Listen, you feel that way.
Turn off this video.
Don't watch my videos because I do not desire to coerce you.
But if you're seeing what I'm seeing, seeing is disbelieving for me.
If you don't mind, why someone like me, I mean, this doesn't say that the deity doesn't exist, of course.
This is a personal question of my own.
And just to get your thoughts, maybe you could say, I can understand that or you can ignore it altogether.
It doesn't matter.
But for me, I've been making the point and some, some people wanted to recently be jabbing at me saying that I'm lying or being dishonest.
I did a little video on it.
I didn't have to, but I did it on purpose because I want people to see the interactions that go on.
Oftentimes, people have no clue what I have to deal with.
Was that that click baby thing you did just the other day that I'm lying or something like that?
They wrote that I'm being dishonest.
And it's an actual person on Facebook that I'm friends with who wrote me this because they did not like the video This Is War.
They felt that I have a one-sided channel and I don't bring on all the apologists as if Christian apologists don't have enough clout on the Internet and don't get enough attention.
I'm supposed to now stop what I'm doing with the academics I talk to and just give William Lane Craig a pedestal or all of these other academics that are actually trying to, I almost say, axe grind to prove the stuff is true.
And I tend to axe grind the opposite direction.
I want to fight against what I think is out there because I don't think it's the case.
But when I looked at this deity and I said this is very much like the other ancient Near Eastern deities.
For me, it solidifies that this is an age old thing that human conception and our perception of the divine and the natural world.
This is how they viewed it.
The fact that this God had to evolve and change so much for me really nails down some humanity to this whole thing that I think is bigger than they're giving credit for.
And they'll say, well, no, no, no, divine revelation has gods revealing himself even more over time and you can come up with any model to make this the case.
They said it was a non sequitur and I simply am saying, look, I don't buy that this divinity is real.
Just like I don't think Osiris or any other God, if we're going to, we need to be fair then like they also exist or at least seem to exist in the minds of their believers and followers and such.
So they they're very comfortable in their philosophical worldview, like coming up with conceptions of the deity and whatnot.
And they said, well, this doesn't prove God doesn't exist at all.
Even if you can nail this God down to an anthropomorphic, corporeal deity in the ancient Near East, so what?
That doesn't prove God doesn't exist.
And I said, I agree because how can I prove that God doesn't exist?
I can't even if I identify Pitch and Homie, if you will, as an atheist.
I however think that there's good reasons to think that men conceptualized this deity.
And technically, the deity is a reflection of man, not weird images of the deity, my opinion.
They thought this was a this was some non sequitur, me trying to say, and I think that deity, they've kind of like thrown that God out the window with their modern conceptions.
The end of the book of Francesca's book is the literally like the funeral of God in a way.
Your God is no longer your God.
Biblically, you have a different perception and interpretation.
So what do you what do you think in conclusion of that whole thing that I'm kind of expressing here?
I think you're absolutely right.
In fact, the book that I'm working on right now, I'm not sure what we're going to call it right now.
The working title is Negotiating Adonai.
And the idea is that the depiction of God, the conceptualization of God is something that is constantly being negotiated.
And every renegotiation must take into account what came before.
And then that renegotiation then provides a different picture for the next generation to negotiate with.
And it is always being done within a context with certain rhetorical needs and goals and exigencies.
And so the the apologetic idea that what I get frustrated with the notion of you can't prove it.
You can't prove much of anything at all.
I don't know if people are aware just how little we consider or how little of what we consider our human knowledge is actually proven.
But just being able to gin up the tiniest little sliver of not impossible does not achieve a whole ton,
particularly when a lot of these folks would like to say that, you know, Mormonism is proven false.
Well, if you can say or if you think it means something to say you can't prove God doesn't exist,
you also can't prove Mormonism is false.
You can't prove Islam is false.
You can't prove heaven's gate is false.
I can't prove Jesus didn't rise from the dead.
I tell that all the time to people.
Yeah, we scholarship must deal with probabilities and weighing probabilities and what is probable, possible, impossible, plausible.
And we're basically just putting stuff in those categories and trying to progress our knowledge.
When you're arguing from this position that either you prove me entirely false or I win, you're not really engaging in good faith.
You're just trying to protect a dogma.
But you're also deploying precisely what you're trying to defend your dogma against against other dogmas.
And so it I find it just wildly hypocritical.
I find it wildly inconsistent.
And the same thing about people talk to me or accuse me all the time of being methodologically corrupt because I don't allow for the possibility of real prophecy.
And it's like, well, no, it's not that I don't allow for it personally.
It's that methodologically, if you ever allow for it, you have to allow for all of it.
You cannot say it's legit here.
It's not legit there.
So if you're saying, well, you you should allow the Bible's prophecies to to be possible.
Well, then I've got to allow every religious text prophecies to be possible because the moment you say, well, not that one.
You're applying the methodologies to that prophecy that you said we're not allowed to apply over here.
And so just from a methodological point of view, that is not consistent.
That is not helpful.
That is just protecting a dogma.
And I find that that's what most of these folks are doing is just trying to protect a dogma and then trying to make their protection of that dogma sound as defensible and as legitimate and as methodologically robust as they can.
And that's the real exercise.
Make it sound legitimate.
And but in reality, it's always inconsistent.
It's always hypocritical.
It's always methodologically correct.
That's exactly why this heuristic comparison of other legends, apotheosis, birth narratives and things like that, whether they're genealogically connected or not, is irrelevant to my point on saying,
why not Caesar Augustus be born with these divine portents?
You look at it and say it's legend and mean you sing kumbaya high five and say amen together.
We get to this text and your whole everything.
Well, we got to take this one is so special and we got to take this case very and then you can easily see the scholars.
You see comparison of the Gospels that don't agree on those narratives and they which ones true amongst those and which one really happened.
And like it's so obvious to me that I love learning this stuff and I love the stories and the narratives.
But it just seems more like this falls into the category of a certain genre rather than this is literal historical.
What is actually the case?
And so anyway, I'm venting at this point because what you've done there is so well said exactly the debate that just happened with Bart Ehrman.
And you've got something coming up with Bart Ehrman on your podcast, speaking of which.
Yes.
But he Bart Ehrman was debating the resurrection and literally was kind of pointing out this fact to the Justin Bass guy on unbelievable podcast.
And he's like, look, you're not doing that with all these others.
So we had to bring up Mormonism and say there's four or five eyewitnesses about the golden plates scenario and Joseph Smith's having a vision of Jesus.
And then they brought it to the Pauline stuff.
Anyway, I think Bart was being consistent and saying, well, why aren't you doing that with this and you do it with that?
Of course, they have their reasons why Mormonism is falsified or it's not true or they don't trust it.
They don't agree with it.
So do I when it comes to certain other religious claims and religious beliefs, but I would almost try to do it across the board.
I'm trying to be even.
That's where.
Yeah.
And a lot of people just don't.
Once it is their social identity that is in the crosshairs, it feels unfair and that's just a natural human reaction.
