Well, let me tell you something there, Derrick, you know, I think that you probably just don't understand evolution, okay?
And I think if you were to understand that the water rains down on the otters, well, then you'd come to see my point, okay?
Because dogs never produce non-dogs.
Dogs never produce non-dogs.
Dr. Joshua Bowen, it's getting late, so I'm tapping my hands. This is really fun. I'm having a blast.
Me too.
I get this all the time from people that I associated myself with eight or nine years ago as a reformed Calvinist.
All these liberal scholars, they are purposely distorting their understanding, they're distorting the Bible in order to disprove it.
And they're coming in with their bias, their agendas, and this and this and that.
Now, I must admit, Pine Creek sometimes will point out, like liberal Christians oftentimes will kind of try to like,
it's not that dogmatic, it's not exclusive. So there's these flag-waving, he calls them phony Christians who want to, you know, soften up the message.
So it's more of a social gospel, and everybody can get along and like this gospel.
And here's the thing, I like that better, personally, even if the text says something, like Muslims who want to maybe do jihad,
and they interpret that to mean actual crazy stuff, or guys who go, jihad is the struggle within oneself.
I'm going with that guy, okay?
Hell yeah.
So, but liberal scholars, back to the topic.
Are they just trying to disprove the Bible and God? Is this their agenda?
Like, does everyone have a secret committee? They meet in an Illuminati club and they say, look, we're going to take this thing down.
What's going on?
So, the question itself is framed interestingly, and I know that you're asking the way that it's presented,
and the way that they present it is in and of itself odd to me.
What the hell is a liberal scholar?
Like, that's the thing that comes to my mind.
Now, I know that, because I said the same thing that you did, right?
I called them liberal scholars too.
But what does that mean? Well, that means that they disagree with me, right?
And they're not more conservative than I am in their beliefs. They're more liberal.
So, they're liberal scholars.
Now, the weird thing that I find is that how they define it, because what they say,
what often fundamentalists will say when they talk about liberal scholars,
is really anybody that doesn't hold to a fundamentalist position of the text.
If they don't hold to strict inerrancy or this sort of literalist interpretation,
they're just liberal scholars.
Well, the problem is under that definition, I can point to so many evangelical scholars that are liberal scholars.
So, I'll ask the question in these discussions, who's a liberal scholar, right?
Because like Richard Averbeck, for example, has an article in...
It's over there, actually, because I just moved it.
There's a book on Old Testament backgrounds.
He's got an article on Old Testament slavery in the Hebrew Bible.
And you would think, as an evangelical Christian, well, he must say that there's no such thing as slavery, right?
Or it's the nicer slavery. No, he doesn't say that.
He says, what everybody says, that's a biblical scholar.
Yeah, there's debt and shadow slavery.
Doi, right?
But to so many people online, and so many people in these circles, Christian apologists and fundamentalists,
he's a liberal scholar, which is bizarre, because he's not...
I mean, he's an evangelical scholar, anyhow.
So, if we're defining liberal scholars as like those that are not...
Let's go more broadly, those that are not evangelical Christians, maybe.
People like Megan is Megan a liberal scholar because she's a Biscopalian.
She's Anglican and a scholar. She a liberal scholar.
It's just a weird classification.
But if we assume that it's people that just disagree with fundamentalism or disagree with evangelical positions,
if we go broadly, then is their motivation, is their goal to disprove the Bible?
Well, I can't read people's minds.
I can't guess their intentions sometimes, or know their intentions.
But in my experience, no, it doesn't even matter to them.
And that's true of evangelical scholars quite often, at least in certain contexts.
So, I remember going through, in Hopkins, I took a class with Kyle McCarter on Genesis.
And with Ted Lewis, I took a class on the book of Ezekiel.
And in neither class did any apologetic questions come up.
When we went through Ezekiel, I don't think anybody asked about the prophecy of Tyre.
It wasn't a question. Did it fail? I don't think it came up.
In Genesis, none of these questions about the date of the earth, or the date of creation,
or is this really how it was done in history? This stuff doesn't come up.
But a lot of the people that were not only in the class, but on faculty, they would identify as Christian.
And certainly, they're not trying to disprove Christianity, when they are.
Several of them are Protestants, several were Catholic.
They just don't view the text that way. They don't worship the book.
Even if they're like, oh, I don't worship the book. You're strawmen and you know what I'm talking about.
It's an ancient Near Eastern text. That's how they view it. It's an ancient Near Eastern text.
And if God wants to utilize an ancient Near Eastern text to get a general message out, by all means.
But the idea that they're coming and saying, okay, this is an errant.
It's an ancient Near Eastern text. It's an ancient Near Eastern text.
It's an ancient Near Eastern text. It's an ancient Near Eastern text.
It's an ancient Near Eastern text. It's an ancient Near Eastern text.
It's an ancient Near Eastern text. It's an ancient Near Eastern text.
It's an ancient Near Eastern text. It's an ancient Near Eastern text.
And so I think it's a very strange question. It's structured very oddly.
And I think that it's, what it is, is it's people, I think it's fundamentalists that are getting frustrated
with scholars that are good scholars, that are Christian scholars,
that don't take these fundamentalist positions like they take, actually.
And let's use a fundamentalist, for example, Mike Lacona.
I consider him evangelical to some degree fundamentalist, even though he's a sharp guy.
But he recently was let go of from his job because he took the Matthew resurrection zombie situation
in one of the Gospels, or in Matthew, where the zombies come into the city.
He said that didn't literally happen. That's allegory.
And the college, if I'm not mistaken, he was working at literally had to let him go
because he took a stance against the text in a way that they're evangelical fundamentalist Christians
that know you are tiptoeing. We've all been saying this is literally true.
And you now are going against that.
And Delcey Allison, who's another Christian, evangelical, but not fundamentalist scholar that I interviewed,
he's like, yeah, that's not, I don't take that as literal either.
Whether it was or wasn't, because I mean, there's stuff weird stuff that happens in the Gospels anyway.
So we don't even have to argue. Yeah, you get what I'm saying.
But you can't even try to do that. Anyway, I interrupted you.
No, no, no. And I think I just think that this question about what is a liberal scholar,
it's just, it's a way out, right, for people that I think hold very narrow fringe positions,
which are very strict fundamentalist positions.
And they don't like it that the evidence as time continues to go by,
particularly over the past 100 years, more and more evidence comes in,
more and more archaeological data comes in, you know, more and more ancient or eastern data is uncovered.
You know, as we've talked about several times tonight, like when you get into the acerological data,
it's like, oh, my gosh, this really opens up what the Hebrew Bible is doing.
And that data doesn't match a fundamentalist interpretation.
And so a way of sort of getting around this or dealing with this maybe internally for them is to say,
well, they're just liberal anti supernaturalists, anti God that are just trying to disprove the Bible.
Well, guess what? We're not.
And that's not my goal as an atheist. That's not my goal to disprove.
I don't even know what that means, disprove the Bible. What does that mean?
And how do I disprove the Epic of Gilgamesh?
How about just trying to understand the Bible?
Yes.
You know, that's the problem, I think, is they want you to understand it their way.
Yes.
And if you are understanding it in an ancient or eastern context, in its original context,
no, they want you to see it through their lens.
And this goes into the whole, the dangers, in my opinion,
of the whole reader's view of scholarship, interpreting it that way.
You see what I'm saying?
So I think there's dangers in that and then becoming dogmatic in the reader's view.
And this is the thing, like, and I'll, like, maybe, and we can end with this part.
Yeah.
But like Gilgamesh, let's take the Epic of Gilgamesh.
If you and I looked at the Epic of Gilgamesh and we said,
we're going to start seeing this as a divinely inspired text from God and an errant.
And Andrew George, who's an eminent, a seriologist,
who has worked extensively on the Epic of Gilgamesh, came along and said,
do what?
Yeah.
Yeah, guys, you can't take that.
So what?
He raced through a tunnel.
Well, you don't know.
Scientifically, maybe there's a garden with jewels on the trees, you know,
and maybe there's punting poles to get across the Sea of Death.
And he would say, oh, my God, like, you need to understand this as an ancient
Near Eastern text.
And we said, you're just a liberal scholar that's trying to disprove the Epic of Gilgamesh.
There is a plant that Utnapishtian has out there somewhere.
For eternal life.
His response, I suspect, would be besides, OK, I'm not talking to you crazies anymore,
would be, what do you mean disprove the Epic of Gilgamesh?
Does that even mean?
No, nobody's trying to disprove it.
We're trying to understand it in its ancient Near Eastern context.
What is this text doing?
And I think at the end of the day, whatever you want to do with the biblical text,
if you first understand it in an ancient Near Eastern setting,
you can then ask yourself the question, what makes more sense to me?
Does it make more sense to me to see this as a divinely inspired and unique text
in that sense of being divinely inspired or not?
If you do, great.
Just don't try to limit people's rights based on your understanding of it.
Good luck.
You know, you could do the impersonation if you'd like.
Well, let me tell you something there, Derek.
I think that you probably just don't understand evolution.
And I think if you were to understand it, the water rains down on the otters,
then you'd come to see my point, OK, because dogs never produce non-dogs.
Let me help.
Well, thank you, Dr. Bowen, Kent Hoben.
Thank you.
Have a nice one.
