Welcome back to myth vision podcast. I'm your host Derek Lambert. I hope you're having a wonderful day
I have a special treat today. That is my good friend rabbi tovia singer for those who don't know
Ritt he's written a few books
Let's get biblical. He sent me sent me these years ago and I started reading them and I realized, okay
He's explaining pretty thoroughly why jews throughout history
Have rejected becoming christians
And so we're going to talk about some of those reasons
specifically talking about paul the apostle paul
So for viewers who are just now tuning in hit the like button
I hope you can join the chat be respectful. I ask and also if you have any super chats
I hope that they're respectful as well as we'll take those as we further proceed
This will be 60 to 90 minutes. Let's have some fun. Welcome back to myth vision rabbi tovia singer
Ah great to be here great to see you
and um and I say that because you were not in synagogue this sabbath
And right I just wanted to point that out and there's just a personal thing
You and me we'll talk after the show, but you have to talk. I was like a little weird
We're reading from the Torah. It was a 10 commandments last week
10 commandments. I thought you'd be there with your white kipa
Nothing. Yeah as well
I hate to say this, but there was a bacon turkey sandwich
luring me away and
You know me. You know me a little bit of bacon and
I'm out the door. Um, I'm teasing
So the apostle paul is would be very happy with your bacon eating. That's true
Yes, he would approve
He would approve. I don't know if I care about his approval today, but you know, right?
Yeah, so he's he's obviously got everything figured out
Correctly understands the Torah. Um, and he is giving the accurate representation of the messiah here in the new testament
Or did I get that backwards?
Yeah, um, see paul paul was not in favor of
the observance of the
Torah, but he had to
given that he was
Selling his iteration
I mean the word christianity doesn't appear in the christian bible because he was selling it
He had to and not only does paul have to but all the authors of the christian bible
Need to demonstrate the veracity of their claim
In through the hebra bible. They're all doing this. So paul is our
earliest surviving christian literature
um
John revelation, um, that's the end at least the end of the first century. They're all doing this
john
As jesus say that you know if you would have believed in moses you would have believed in me because he wrote about me
And paul's doing the same thing except paul
is very deliberately
miscoting the hebra bible
And um, if we're going to ask you
I'm sorry. I was just gonna say we're gonna get any examples. I'm sure that you have highlighted
but an analogy recently
I came up with one that made a lot of sense to me
Tell me if you think i'm hot or cold on this
that is
If someone today were to say listen, um elvis presley or tupac Shakur
has told me some things he never told people when he was around on earth
And uh, it's kind of a revelation actually in fact it it disagrees with what the earlier people who were around when he was alive
That he was telling them
I'm gonna give you some of these insights that come directly from elvis or directly from tupac
You would imagine most people who are not raised indoctrinated in that particular movement
Would hesitate and go hold on
You're saying you're talking to elvis and elvis is telling you like updated information about things and you're trusting this guy
We wouldn't do that for someone who did that for tupac or for elvis
After he never met the guy so wouldn't that already raise red flags to be cautious?
Right, so paul actually takes us a step further than your examples
so
Perhaps we might be charitable and say maybe this person
met elvis a long time ago or tupac not that long ago
Paul
Makes claims that the jewish bible says
That uh, that the messiah died of fear sins
He was buried and he was raised on the third day
And it says that in the hebra bible
This is the most
famous
Chapter in all of paul's letters first garantians 15 and there's no one who questions
Where the paul is the author of this letter?
as it turns out
We have the hebra bibles nearly 24 000 passages
So the hebra bible is huge much much larger than the christian bible
And there's there is no these passages don't exist
So paul takes us a step further perhaps someone spoke to elvis in 1972
I mean
I remember the day that elvis died
So maybe someone spoke to elvis or maybe someone found it
But here paul is making the claim
That the hebra scripture says that the messiah is supposed to die for your sins
And the hebra bible of course teaches that no the innocent cannot die for the sins of the wicked
And he would be buried he would be in the tomb for three days and rise on the third
According to the scripture you're preset in verse three and again in verse four
And as it turns out these are phantom verses they don't exist anywhere
So this is much more falsifiable than your elvis example
And I am convinced of this. I can't I could not possibly have been the first person to notice this
Someone must have written this before
But
There's no doubt that the author of luke is copying this because luke at the very end of the book at the very
Last chapter at the end of the last chapter in luke 24
verse 44
luke outlines the exact same thing jesus is speaking here
So if you had a red letter bible it would be in red and you're saying look at the Torah
Look at the prophets look at the the psalms, which means the kutuvim the writings
The the psalms die and rise on the third day
Read it for yourself 24 44 to 46. So
The the example the christian bible is really much more severe because it actually
invents passages
That don't exist paul's for letter
First Corinthians is written somewhere in the 50s
luke is hard to say when it was written, but it was written at least mid 80s
That's very conservative and there are many people for good reason think that luke was written in the second century
Whenever was written it was written
half a century later
So luke no doubt is copying this because it's it's the same thing
The idea of completely inventing passages and then people wonder about what of the jews blind
That we don't believe in jesus as they're a veil of her eyes
And these this is the language of paul because paul has to explain to me why don't the jews believe this
This is a big issue in the christian bible. Why?
Do the very people who can read these books in this original language?
Um, they're the only ones waiting for a coming of messiah
Jews have a reputation of being fairly clever. Why don't they believe this and the christian bible is
You know, I was going to spend a lot of time explaining the jews are the children of the devil
That's less flattering in
john 8
john 844
There's a veil over their eyes in second charenteans or blind second charenteans three and four
All sorts of explanations if I may add to this
I could I can imagine someone saying well those verses were there. We haven't found the text that they were
Wouldn't that be a little more embarrassing that that wasn't reserved or there wasn't preserved for for
The readers later on to find this if you're someone who
Believes god's going to preserve his word
Kind of shocking it. We don't have it
so
Why I mean I could imagine someone trying to speculate that well
Yes
Are people
they're
MacArthur does that on a few occasions like in at the very end of matthew's infancy narrative matthew's infancy narrative
ends with jesus
is
comes from the city of nazareth because
Matthew has a family start in Bethlehem and wind up with nazar and he'll be called a nazarene
Because it says so in the bible and there is no such passage in the bible. So there are a number of them who say ah
They said it but it just didn't make it into the canon. It didn't make it into the scriptures
That might work for someone who is not familiar with the claims of the new testament
The claim of the new testament is
Read your bible. Jesus is there. He's bouncing off every page
2nd timothy
3 very specifically says that it is the scripture that is used for edification teaching 2nd timothy 3
15 and 16
And as I mentioned earlier, uh, john 8, uh, john 5 46
The claim is made to the jews if you would have
um believed in moses
Meaning it's there
You would have believed in me because he spoke about me. So that's not the claim that's a
That's a vacuous claim
You know what this is like
This is like watching a seven-year-old do a magic show
And you're just watching it and just going I can't believe i'm this is not david blaine
This is not broadway. This is
Just a very poor example of sleight of hand
And because the kids your nephew and your sister will kill you if you don't say something nice
You say oh it was brilliant. It was great
But that's what's going on the christian bible is saying as it says according to the prophets the Messiah we born of a virgin Matthew
122 and 20 feet because it actually says this it doesn't say that these are
passage of don't exist and we're over one other point
This is a slide and I want the viewers to understand how to think if these are verses that don't exist
But in the text they're hidden verses
Which reeks of gnosticism these hidden
mysteries then what religion could be
Falsified then I mean aren't the our evangelical friends telling us that
There are 365 verifiable passages in the old test and approve the jesus the messiah
They don't that's not the advertisement that's you know when you look at the ad
You actually hope that when you're welcome to sort of order on amazon so the thing shows up
The claim is made solar scriptura
Ah, but then we come to these passages and we're told this is a verse that just never made it into the canon
But that's not what I was sold on that's what I would board in on
But that's what goes on so bait and switch
So let's discuss a few things you you actually helped me with the title you said look you needed let them know you have no idea
Of how wrong paul was
And so you brought up an example of a passage that is a phantom passage. It doesn't exist
Um, it's craft that are invented potentially grabbing ideas from several different locations and inventing kind of his own
Scripture here that isn't there in the actual original text that he's using
Are there any other examples that you can give us before we get into q&a?
that to you highlight
this
coercive effort on his part to fulfill in jesus
prophecies or scripture and kind of sell his own little cult
a chapter
That should not sit well with the church
Is found in deuteronomy chapter 30 the context is the end of the five books moses essentially
Is we're told that I want you to know it's a personal letter
that
keeping the commandments
Is not difficult. It's not hard. You can do it. I'm not kidding. So there's a chapter
almost envisioning
The book of romans saying because
paul is saying you can't do it. You're a senator. You're a lost original sin paula
so
There's an entire chapter in the Torah that's devoted to telling you that you can actually keep these commandments
Do not say in your heart
Um, who will go to heaven to bring it to us?
Who's going to go over the sea to bring it?
It's not too hard. It's not difficult. You can do it and verse that's how verse 14 ends
Verse 14 ends the word is near to you. These commandments are near to you so that you can do it very simple passage
now you probably think that
paul would stay very far away from this because
The essence of the appalling theology is that man is sinful
Man is spiritually depraved and he could do nothing to save himself. There's no effort. No initiative
And certainly if you hear what i'm saying now
And it seems are too estranged to you
You the viewer
That means you've never been to a church in your life because that this is what's preached every sunday
This is what goes on in every bible quest. I'm not straw manning. I'm steel manning those
That there's nothing you can do to keep these commandments. So you think that
This past these this passage denerani 30 verse 14
Would would not be found anywhere in the christian bible
Strangely, it's found in the christian bible. It's found in the book of romans paul's most influential epistle
and in romans chapter 10
paul quotes it
But he actually cuts off the end. How does the passage actually end in due to ronemy chapter 30?
It ends the word is it last so you see that you can actually do it
That's what it says
But what does paul do? He literally takes out the words
That you can do it. He just cuts it out just deletes it just blows it up but it's eviscerates it
So that's the whole point. The whole point is that you can do it
But paul can't have that in the text. Why look these people who preach reformed theology
It's they didn't invent that this is
Hyped up amped up pauline theology. It's augustinian theology
You can't do it
Reformed theology goes further than say you just were chosen not to do it. You can't because you can't even believe in jesus
It's mind-blowing but in any case. So this is in a
An example of how the text was altered in order to make it appear christological
A moment ago we talked about verses that were invented out of holocaust
Now we're looking at parts of verses that are
Eviscerated in order to hide the original message. So it's the exact opposite
That's an interesting observation, especially if he's trying to sell it to an audience
Who isn't interested in buying what the law sells to begin with?
So now he has to manipulate in a way or you know
I've had some scholars. I've read who entertain the idea that
paul is doing
Everything he can to sway his gentile audience away from observing the law because he wants as many of them as possible to come in
And how do you do that? Well, you of course circumcision's off the table
the list goes on in terms of any of the difficulties and uh coming up with some of that but
Um, I wanted to ask you. Have you ever heard that joke? I did a video on hell with um
Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and he was telling a joke about
About hell and this Lutheran pastor goes there because there must be a mistake
You need to check the record satan goes and looks at the computer goes. You know what?
We've had some errors recently glitches
Let's check it out. If it's if you're really not meant to be here. We'll send you to heaven
So then he goes and goes to the waiting area and he notices this guy dressed in a toga
And he goes you look like this guy paul that we have on icons and in greek. He says i am paul
He's like what?
What the heck then he sees this guy next to him. He sees this looks like st. Augustus and
St. St. Augustine. Sorry and then he's like, um,
It's me. It's yeah, it's me st. Augustine
What is going on here and then he sees luther and he's asking like what's going on and in german
I am luther and then luther turns him and goes listen
It was works after all
So anyway, I thought it was a great joke. You never heard that one
The jews have a different level of comedy than the gentiles do this is a our domain
This is a very special fee
So when non-jews try to move into our business they get into trouble
but um
Yes, I just would just give out a caution here to all our good viewers, but yeah
So he's he's selling the idea though back to romans
Right, but but here's the key. I won't expand because you sense something that's very uh, very important
No, Judaism is a popular religion in the first century in the empire
There are a lot of people want to be jewish remember at the time
Judaism was the only
monotheism in the world. There was no other
There was no other game in town if you wanted
Monotheism not hand of the mind of the only one god only
so
Jews in popular so if someone was thinking about converting to Judaism
and found the gods of the empire to be um
Unpersuasive what might slow down a conversion process what might get in the way?
Well for heaven population as you alluded to circumcision that would
As it turns out about two-thirds of the people who do convert to Judaism are women
Um, maybe that contributes to it. The other is just keeping commandments as you alluded to earlier. You enjoy bacon
So if you have Judaism, which is a popular religion in the empire
And today it's sort of an end thing
What would get in the way of someone going through with the conversion to Judaism?
It's circumcision in ritual commandments and that's what paul does
He removes those two and he says you don't need that at all and let no one tell you about it
You know what you eat you drink and your holidays and festivals because
The law is only a shadow paul says this paul says that the law is only a shadow. The essence is christ
Colossians
Two so two verses
16 and 17
So he's very explicit and whoever wrote hebrews almost copies that
So paul is saying that you can have Judaism
You remember we don't have the word christianity in any sense
And you have Judaism without the problem circumcision commandments and bingo you have an explosion
That's like paul wins in the end like why did paul win and his opponents who paul talks about in every one of his letters
Why did they lose paul win because he's selling Judaism without the problem
Circumcision and ritual commandments his antinomian bingo. You have christianity. That's what if I I want to ask you
If you think there's any connection
With there are early parties of jews who were trying to spiritualize thanks to platonic philosophy and they were saying stuff like
Well, you had it all wrong. Sorry. We misinterpreted this stuff
The original don't eat pigs and don't do this and don't do that
Really meant don't act like and so they reinterpreted it in like this higher supposed sophisticated spiritual way
And therefore these were certain jews that um philo of alexandria seemed to have encountered whom he disagreed with and he was already pretty platonic
Do you think paul is fitting into that extreme category of a of like a really fringe group or do you think
He has a whole another agenda even more malicious than that because it sounds like you think he's got more
um
I guess the word would be malicious or at least a coercive attempt on creating a cult even if he has to fabricate data to do so
Well
Right. So paul was living in an environment with that these ideas
It's like the millenarian groups at the end of the 19th century 70 adventures
All these groups are emerging apocalyptic groups that are emerging that have the same kind of genre
So paul is there and paul is developing what already pre existed
There's no doubt about that and to say that um, you shouldn't eat pig
Uh, but the bible doesn't mean that actually leviticus 11, but it means don't behave like a pig
That argument is made
In a book that didn't make it into the christian canon might have it would have been a nightmare for jews
And that's the epistle of barnabas
the
The core arguments fiercely anti- jewish even by christian standards
Is that the jews never understood their own bible and when it said this it meant something else completely so right so
Hellenism already
Would have been trying to spiritualize very clear text in the bible for sure
paul is
Synchronizing other ideas are very popular
That's gnostic ideas that there's you alluded to this earlier
That there is secret knowledge that only if you have it you would not only discovered who you are
But how to escape this wretched world?
and paul goes so far as to say that
if the people of the era
era
Of jesus if they would have known the secret that i have
They would have never uh crucified christ in his language if the
The rulers of the epa they would have never crucified the lord of glories. This is a mind. This is
This is first Corinthians two
Verse seven and eight. This is mind-blowing paul is saying that the generation
Was so corrupt they crucified christ because they thought they were killing our savior
If they're really enemies of god if they would have known that this was the whole plan after all
They would have never crucified our lord our lord of glory, which is i'll tell you why this is insane
because christians insist
That the hebu bible the old testament
Explicitly prophesies that the messiah is supposed to die isa of the three some point two daniel nine
You know them all well if that's the case of what is paul talking about if there was always an isa of 53
But paul then says this is a mystery is that only i have access to i didn't go to jerusalem after all
i went to arabia
in first
In galatians chapter one verse 17. What is he talking about already went on a hodge to mecca. No
He just wants you to know i don't i don't need the
The jerusalem church i don't need them i get my stuff directly from jesus christ and
It's all mysteries and it's mysteries that that could save you
This is and you could sniff out the
Gnosticism here
Gnostic christianity is going to explode in the second century. It's going to take it much further
Gnostic christianity is going to dump the entire hebu bible altogether
And that's that becomes an issue for the early church
But everything is building to the next paul as you point out is building from one piece to the next level to the next level
Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Um, we've got quite a bit of questions that have been coming in
I'm afraid with our 90 minute cutoff that if we don't start now
Rabbi the end might come and some people may get left outside of the pearly gates
Right i'm in jerusalem, so i'm good
That's a good one. That's a good one. Okay, um, let's go
Let's just start with these questions and i ask everybody be polite
Uh, be respectful try to stay on topic pertaining to new testament stuff
This is why these shows i think happen is not only am i respectful to rabbi, but
Also, you know, we found common ground
We have i get a lot of christians by the way who really hate that i have you on and even some skeptics probably like
What are you doing and it's like
What what do you mean? I don't have there's no way you're making that up. There's no way there are people who don't like me
What are you talking about stop it? Well, no, no, no, there's some you know, like every group. There's some really
There's a lot of people who who watch you
You know what? I think crazy you want anything nutty you want anything crazy
I'm in a in a bomb shelter right now. I'm not kidding not kidding
So I can't reach it but that's steel
No, so every home has a bomb shelter built into it's like one of your rooms. It's a bomb shelter
So this room in my house. What is the bomb shot? It just happens to be
I mean that's like like three inches of steel. I don't know what it is. Whatever it is. I never tested it
So i'm actually in a bomb. Let's let's continue. Go ahead. Okay. Um, but yeah, so
Anyway, I I found common ground on going through the new testament and you have quite a bit of insight on
Studying this so I need to remind just this came to my mind. I'm interviewing barred airman this uh thursday
He's got a gospel of matthew course. He's about to do and I need to poke some things get some good questions from you
Pertain into the anti-semitism that you notice in matthew because most scholars think it's an in-group out-group
So it's just avert a certain jews are arguing against other jews and that's what you see here
But they'll say john's anti-semitic. So we need to talk about that but that's later later. Um,
Dr. Goon 23, thank you for becoming a new member. I appreciate it
Feels good to have real salvation now doesn't it?
Thanks, seriously though for being a member jc
If saffron and thank you for this good job if saffron and biblical
Was referred to by the s pr route
Might ezekiel have eaten a role of saffron instead of a role of writing
No, because well, you're talking about
Ezekiel it's really gorgeous. Ezekiel chapter two and chapter three
And what comes into view there is he's eating writing. It's not any writing
But he's eating he he sees a scroll and he's told to eat it and on both sides of the
parchment
Are contain the lamentations of all the bad things that can happen to the jews not kidding
And ezekiel
Swallows it and goes into his stomach and it's sweet like honey
so
An ezekiel for those who don't know lived
At the time of destruction of the first temple a very traumatic time and
One third of the book of ezekiel is devoted to explaining why the temple was destroyed
So ezekiel is there it's not related to saffron. It's related to
That all the difficulties and the vicissitudes that the jews endure ultimately are sweet and ultimately
Contribute to our growth and strength
I have a question beautiful chapter crazy chapter break from three to four
But brilliant. Thank you. Thank you jc
Is it uh massara? Thank you for the super chat if daniel nine predicts with details the destruction of second temple
Why then are academic scholars atheist?
Well, I think you should ask an atheist that question. Um
So atheists read the end of daniel nine as not the destruction of the sanctuary
but rather the
abomination
Of the defilement of the sanctuary under antheos epiphanies
the fourth
Who was the person who who defiled judeism? He was our spiritual enemy
So far be from me to represent that view the end of daniel nine very explicitly and i'm talking about verse 26
Describes literally the destruction
That of the city
Va'ir
Of haqqoydish yashkis that literally the base hamming dishes destroyed
So the way so what?
a scholar would say who is not if
Not religious
Would say is that this is referring to antheos epiphanies the fourth rather than
Tetus and vespasium
Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate the super chat equal skill
that was
I know I had that's the first time I ever had to explain
What atheists believe but you know, yeah, it's you got to try to know what everybody thinks
I was like
No worries
Equal skills with the super chat shalom rabbi paul claimed. He was a Pharisee student of gamelail
Is there proof heard? There's a student list by gamelail
Is paul on it?
Okay, this is like a really whoever you are you're smart. So that's a really good question
So as it turns out paul never claims to be a student of the gum leo
If paul claimed to be a student of gum leo, he would have been left out of town
gum leo
Lived at the time paul. He lived in the first half of the first century and he was einstein
he was just
the giant and in fact the christian bible is
He's the only non christian jew who's spoken of in a very flattering way now the
paul doesn't make the claim because he can't make the claim because
That's how well known. This is the person who's the head of the son hedron if you were student of his
That's like you're a student of teller. I mean that would be insane
that claim is made
By the by the or whoever wrote the book of acts
Because by the time the book of acts is written so
conservatively the book of acts is written
I don't know
85 90 i mean somewhere that's very conservative. I mean many people believe acts is
a second century
iteration, but who's staying but it's it's we're just staying
So by the time acts is written. Let's just be very conservative 85
That means the book of acts
is written
Three decades after paul's letters
People are dead. I mean there's no way to look so
So the acts makes that claim and the reason why the book of acts is
Speaks of gum leal in very flattering terms is because they're saying that
paul was
a student of his so
If gum leal is a bit is a is a no good guy. So that what is it? How does that reflect on on paul?
Now what's very striking about acts five as an example?
Is that gum leal?
See this is where the
You know, there's the schlemiel and the schlemazel in jewish
Uh thinking the schlemiel
Is the guy who drops the banana peel and the schlemazel is the person who trips over it
So there's kind of a lot of that going on with the new testament trips over itself in the story of gum leal gum leal says that
Christians like peter shouldn't be persecuted because if what they believe is not of god
It'll full of its own and peter's iteration of christianity did fall
The Torah observant christianity didn't stick around
So paul is going to always at all times going to insist that he's a Pharisee or Pharisee that he makes
That case he must make he makes that famous most famous sources for that is
Let's all pick his letters that are indisputed
Uh, uh, Philippians chapter three
Galatians one and two
And why is paul doing this? Why is he?
Saying that he was more zealous than any of his peers. Why is he doing this because he's got opponents all over the place
He has enemies on all sides
Who were saying
Exactly that that paul's fake. He's a phony. He's what he's teaching is ungodly. So paul
has to explain for instance to the church as in
asia minor
His letter to the little churches in the book of the letter to the glacial as an example
He spends two chapters explaining why
peter's
a crook
And he told it to peter to his face
in
Galatians
one
I think it's um
I think it's verse 11
I think so he's constantly explaining why everyone else is inferior to him and he is a
And therefore follow what i'm saying you foolish galatians galatians three verse one
So that's why paul's constantly
Pushing forward that he's a Pharisee now the word Pharisee is in anachronism
It just means an orthodox jew. So if you know what orthodox jews are
So that's the gold standard in the entire christian bible the Pharisees unless your righteousness exceeds the Pharisees and the scribes
The sermon of the mount it's like not the Sadducees the Pharisees
They're the ones who get it directly from moses matthew 23 1 and 2
So paul is going to make this claim because people are considering him
To be a fake anophony and that comes off an axe
And I know some of you may be wondering well
Why am I using the christian bible to prove things when I don't believe that the christian bible is reliable?
It's true
But there is
one standard that all
Scholars will concede you can take to the bank
On historicity and that's the criteria of embarrassment
There would be no reason the world why paul's vicious
Conflicts with his with fellow christians
Uh would ever be inserted in the book of acts or in paul's letters. It just it doesn't make sense
not just fellow christians
We we talked about the epistle barnabas, which is a pseudopigrapha
but the actual barnabas
was paul's buddy in fact
Barnabas is the guy that got paul the connection to the jews own church
All right, and his cousin is john mark and paul has a fight with both of them
How likely is that as someone would have invented that? No, that's very embarrassing
So paul can't get along with anyone. We've met people like this who can't get along with people
That's paul paul's not the guy you want to have dinner with
so
paul constantly has to display for all to see
His credentials to show why his christology is correct and his opponents are wrong and paul wins for the reason i explained earlier
Thank you. Thank you. We have quite a few here rabbi. So um
I don't know how brief you're able to be on some of them, but uh, just keep that in mind as we move forward
Israelite christianity. Thank you for the super chat are the embarrassing stories about noah abraham moses and erin found in the tourist
Solid evidence for the historicity of the tour's narratives in your view
I added in your view because
Are the embarrassing stories
right, so
The Torah is very interested in showing every mistake
That we've made
Um
There's a saying
That the Hebrew bible is either written by god or an anti-semite
It's it's very self-critical and all of our leaders are hit very hard moses david
And in what makes what I i'll just this point. I think will mean a lot to you viewers
What makes the Hebrew bible so drastic dramatically different than the christian bible
is that
That all of our leaders are of people who are deeply flawed king david flawed
Once paul becomes a christian
He can do nothing wrong. Jesus could do nothing wrong
peter is a little bit of a shul mazel in the christian bible for other reasons so
The the jewish bible is very very self critical because it's trying to show you what not to do in all the mistakes of our leaves
We don't have any virgin births in the jewish bible everybody is real
And I can relate to david because he's made mistakes and I have to but I can get right
Thank you appreciate that
Israel i christianity again said in my opinion all the paulina epistles are forgeries
Why are you certain that paul wrote the seven undisputed letters?
I'm convinced that that paul wrote more than seven
So this is very important
Unlike any other letter in the christian bible any other document in the christian bible paul's letters have enormous texture to it
The personality of paul comes through on those seven undisputed letters
They're very different than the gospels the gospels first of what we have are layers and layers and layers
The fewest layers is mark the earliest chronologically of the gospels. You don't get a sense
derrick
You or I wouldn't get a sense of reading the book of matthew who really wrote this book
So that we don't know it is
We it's just hard to feel out who is the who is this editor who's taking these sources and putting it together
It doesn't come through because there's so many layers
but paul's letter paul had a
Temper we talk about him having a temper which he had he had a temperament
He was he he's not systematic like the paul the epistle the author of the epistles of the hebrus. He's
Very temperamental. He's very angry. He changes from one direction to the other
He has a very striking personality as I mentioned. He's not someone you'd want to hang out with
um
We say seven undisputed
So those are indisputed but many many scholars would consider
It's that it's quite possible that paul contributed to other epistles
Ephesians Colossians could have contributed to it after all roman 16
22 paul we know that there's someone else who
Work with paul on putting together the book of roman so but paul's personality is there screams
Not only his theology
his style
So technically he gets back to the criterion embarrassment in a way in your opinion, which helps
Paul is very angry. He doesn't like to be
Disrespected. He doesn't like it if you don't respect that he would hate the show
He would be very angry to derrick not me you i'm gonna
I'm in a rocket-proof belt
He would be he would be very upset. You know, I just do this in galatians four
This is like crazy. I think it's verse 12
Galatians four is it 12 or 14?
Paul said, you know, when I was sick, he says he writes to these people
He says, you know, when I was sick when I came to the last time you really took care of me
You treated me with such honor as though he says I was an angel lord as though I was jesus christ himself
He says that
He says you treat like what are you why why would you doubt my authority? That's
That's who we're dealing with. That's the kind of prayer and we can't sniff out Paul. Of course you can
His I mean that he blues is so different. He blues is highly systematic
Very thought out. There's none of this going on. He was how the church fathers got sold on the notion that he was written
Like Paul's mind blowing they were sold on it. And that's why it made it into the canon
Thank you. Thank you
Israelite Christianity again, it's back most archaeologists claim the conquest narratives of joshua contradict the archaeological data
Are they lying or are they misrepresenting the data?
What are your thoughts?
You know, you know, Derek, I think you would know about this more than my because me because I have no background in archaeology
That's just not my field at all. When you go to rabbinical school, we don't study archaeology
Just take my word for it. It does
From the archaeologists, we both know
They will tell you how difficult archaeology is archaeologists
I mean people with the top in their field will tell you that
Doing archaeology is like having a puzzle a thousand piece puzzle
But you're only given two pieces and there's no picture in the front
That's the classic the script, right? It's this is not
Like all right, like I remember once I was going to go scuba diving in Bali
So I called up the dive shop. I said, what's the water temperature? I want to know kind of wetsuit to bring
He says it's 29 degrees. I said, what is that? He said, I don't know
So I went on google and I found out whatever that is pretty very warm for water
It means that's you know, like you can look it up exactly archaeology is not this kind of
thing and that's why there's so many different opinions and there are
different views in that community
Who have a different worldview and you can and that's why there's so many adjustments
That's why there you have the same personalities that have one worldview who are
Who are from a minimalist world?
So they have that and you have other people who have a different worldview who might view it differently
I mean why they are using so much people like
Doctors not arguing of cigarette smoking is dangerous or not because the reason is that there's enough room in there
What people could interpret it based on their worldview and that's why you can consistently predict who would
You think that way the other way, you know, this is not my field of expertise, but it's very clear what's happening there
Thank you. Thank you
Israelite Christianity last one by them for now
Where in Isaiah does the servant of Yahweh represent the righteous remnant of Israel and where does the servant represent the whole nation?
Okay
I'll be writing it down. So
Isaiah 41
verse 8 and 9 now
So that's Israel the nation and it's compared to in these passages to Abraham
Who god loved that's where it comes from
Isaiah 42 verse 6 Israel isn't
Mentioned in that passage
but it's
Brit arm to a covenant nation
Now this so frequently mistranslated as a
A covenant to the nation, but the Librit is to the covenant nation. So
Isaiah 43, this is very important for you
43 verse 10 you are my witnesses the Clairs Lord
Atem of the new mushroom
You are my witnesses the Clairs the Lord my servant to my have chosen says no belief in on says
I am Lord there's no one besides me
By the way, if you go back to 42 and 19
You see that the servant is fragile means who is blind up my servant who is deaf my servant
Isaiah will go through it very fast. Isaiah 44 verse 1 44 21 45 4
48 20 49 3
But what's interesting? I'd like to point you to 49 verse 5 and 6 where the servant is told to bring back the rest
Of the tribes of Jacob and there you see it's the remnant of Israel
Not all of Israel because the remnant is told to bring back the rest of the Jews
Not just the Gentiles or legumes appears in 49 6 as well. So I just encourage people to read through the servants
So it's really beautiful stuff
Thank you, tovia. Thank you. Thank you. Michael Beverly says hey guys. Love the rabbis talks
I've got a live stream with michela kona tomorrow
What's the top resurrection question?
The woman would spices after the burial or something else
Not a gotcha so much, but a discussion question
Look, I don't even understand how
I don't understand why someone would believe that women
would do a tahrirah
On a man's body would excuse me would bring spot would put spices and anoint a dead man's body
There's so many things wrong with this
So and I encourage you to look at the first
This is easy way to remember just the last chapter of mark and the last chapter of Luke
Okay, just do that start right there because that's where it pops in so in those two now john
repairs of this
John has nicodemus
Prepare the spices before the Sabbath. You know, so john fixes this problem
But this is a massive issue
Why would you put spice on a dead body if it's in the tomb for three days? Why why are spices put on a body?
I mean just simple women
performing a
A tahrirah, which is a sacrament. It's just washing the body
Anointing the body
So women always do that for women men for men. It's just would never happen. Do you have any idea?
What a dead body looks like
after it's been in tomb for three days
In fairly moderate weather drusum has very very nice warm weather about nine months a year
Do you know what a dead body looks like after three days of decay which begins immediately?
Why why are you anointing a decaying body? It doesn't even the story doesn't make sense
these are this is a plot device that was
Had to just be rebuilt. So I can't tell you what to ask
you know, Mike I just
People miss this and you know why I want to make this point
The reason why people miss this and scratch their head on this point is because unless you grew up
In the jewish world as a religious jew. So this is like a part of you just like you're an american. So, you know exactly
you know, how popular baseball is versus
badminton, I don't know
You know that you understand the american culture
Right in a way because you there's a jew you you sniff this out immediately like this is a complete contrivance
Why there's no way that women are gonna why would you anoint a body as a decaying for three days?
Why where did you even get that from? I don't want to take too much time
spices were is not in the bible
As a commandment the spices were used to mask the smell of a decaying body
Bring the body to internment. So it's not too
Um, so there shouldn't be a busy in how may so that the body shouldn't smell
But once it's in the tomb why you bring so that is completely convoluted and it's all a plot device and people miss it
Not on a why
Thank you. Thank you rabbi. I've got another question here
If you feel comfortable answering unis and clay on thank you so much for the super chat toby
Tell us your opinions of gay men lgbt
I
I I
talked to them every day
and
and I think most rabbis do
And there the people who
Who asked me for help like every rabbi is
Asked for help
Right and it's it's a lot of pain. That's what it is now
Granted that my exposure is only to people who come to me who are
Either
They're religious people who feel whatever reason I even the people of other faith come to me
And I think it's because they're uncomfortable speaking to someone in their own faith because they don't want it to be found out
so I get
Messages and people who really are hurting and really are struggling
and
And I can't go and no two are the same. This is not like people have abcd
Each case is just a lot of pain there a lot of hurt a lot of shame a lot of struggle
Each person's difference for me
and for rabbis out there and I presume this is going on and
for um pastors and so on for me it's
Understanding what hurt is and understanding what pain is
And it's helping people navigate a very very challenging world. That's what it is for me for me
It's about someone who's who's broken inside and hurting. That's what I think
So we we want to but I don't
I don't look for new custers or anything that but
I don't know. Do I get
250 emails a day? Probably I don't know
Whatever it is. There are people hurting out there. That's the answer to your question. That's what I think
Thank you for the super chat appreciate it
Stop scamming in hello, tovia. Is this an accurate summary of the Talmud?
It consists of the Mishnah Oral Torah
Which is scriptural and records of discourse among many jews with differing views which isn't scripture
I'm going to step away for a second while you answer that
Right so I need to explain this so the Talmud is the largest document of antiquity with more than 70 volumes
This is just massive
So is the mission of the mission that has a lot of things?
And I'll give you just an example of it. So the what's happening as we have a principal in the Torah
and the question is
What are the extremes?
If I can use uh, something you'd be familiar with wherever you live there are laws
That prohibit people who've consumed a certain amount of alcohol from operating a motor vehicle, right?
Um, but the question is how much alcohol would impair you right? So whatever it is, right?
So what the Talmud is very interested in doing we have the principle that if you're
If you're impaired
by not as alcohol, but
So it's it's illegal to to operate a motor vehicle. Okay, but what's considered impairment?
What is the alcohol blood level? What are the extremes now? Incidentally if you're a pilot
That's a different standard because
The consequences are even much greater than
So so as an example, let me give you an example
We have in a Torah principle
That a man must take a woman and that the oral
Law is that he gives her something of value
All right, he gives another the question of course is think
What is what is the minimum amount of val value that he can give her? Okay, so this is the good
This is how this is cadution. This is the tractate
Which is devoted
Putatively because they actually all the Talmud is all over the place
About the laws of getting married, but how much I understand the valuable gold ring for sure
There's no question if he gives us something
But what's the smallest amount of value where you have a marriage?
This is very critical as if he gives a lesson that they're not really married
Which wouldn't be a problem, but it has a big impact if they have children
All right. Anyway, so there is suddenly there's a disagreement. Let's transpose this
To
Is the minimum a dollar or the minimum a penny?
Okay, I'm transposing it to american currency
So there's the argument is a dollar or a penny. That's the minimum
Now most people going dollar penny who cares that seems like a
That sounds pendantic and picky. It sounds irrelevant
but what I would encourage you to consider is
Look at the level of agreement they have. That means everyone agrees that a dollar or more
That she is Miku deshias. She is betrothed. She's married and anything less than a penny
There's no cadution. She's not married. So
That's where the disagreement is and the in our faith tradition
We not only record
What is the consensus and what we agree on but we always put in
Descenting views we want all the dissenting views to be recorded because
While we may not operate on the penny we may opt for the dollar
We may we want to know what produced
The minority opinion and the scholars who study what the supreme court justices
You in the united states, it's not only what the majority what the five is five judges
But people study the minority opinion, right? Because like what was their thinking? How did they do it?
That's what talmud does. So it's taking a principle. That's in the constitution. That's tanakh
And then we're going. Okay. Let's apply this
It's like a memorandum of law from two sides
And then they had say the closer this closer that so that I think will give you a better understanding
of what's going on in the mishnah and then the talmud is their students after 200
Thank you so much. Um, it'll be a miracle if we can get through these
Indo mat could be using Nazarene to fulfill the prophecy of jesus being disliked and oppressed
Nazarene's were associated with being disliked and hated your thoughts
Okay, so it's a different word. I'm not a hundred percent sure I understand the question
But I think you mean someone who takes a
Um, a Nazarite vow is what I'm pretty sure you're talking about. So this is so cute. This is very cute
This is adorable. This is like a
This is like a very important piece. So it's interesting when you anglicize these words, they sound the same
Nazareth Nazarite
Sounds similar to me. How about you?
But as it turns out two different words different
Words, but in the english when you anglicize them, it's lost
so
Nazareth in hebrew's nazaret
With the tzadi
A nozier is with a zion with the equivalent of a z. So they really are
Uh, very different words now that said
The idea that nazareth was a backwater one horse town that
You know
That does that is an idea that's definitely in the christian bible nazareth
Scholars archaeologists believe they found it years ago. I have no reason to doubt it
But the idea that what good thing can come from nazareth did make its way into the christian bible. So
That is part of the way the
Gospels portray G that he came from he was born in a in a manger if you look at luke's gospel
he was he came like
A prophet is not without honor except from his own countrymen
That kind of refrained the prologue of john
john 111 he came to his own
But they received him not so the idea that he came from the most humble
Background and then made it which is very attractive because that's like superman like that's perfect because i'm a nobody and
Jesus overcame his enemies. I can't he overcame the grave. I can't do that and that's the attraction of christianity. So I think
So there's no question
Though that the idea that nazareth was a lowly place is definitely part of the genre we find in the gospels
Thank you. Thank you rabbi
Hello tovia stops gaming man says have you any take on the authenticity or lack thereof of my monadies' letter to yemen
It's
Not my expertise
I
You know that was a crazy time. My monadies was born in
1235
5
Excuse me change that 11
35 34 35 and he died in
1204 in the winter 1204
He lived during time of the al-mahad, which was an iteration of islam that was insane
crazy
And most remain is that the al-mahad's thought that jews could be forced to convert to islam
Because the guarantee for jews that they were people of the book
Expires after 500 years
And that's why my monadies themselves had to flee and the jews of yemen were oppressed
My monadies was able to address their questions of forced conversion
I should say that muslims today disavowed this
iteration as a
As a heretical idea the his letter to the yemenite jews has written
Judeo arabic
So that's not my field of expertise
Thank you
abry or abry van zil roman 10
Is saying jesus will do it so don't even think about
Say if you or who can do it?
So I imagine you know you were talking about he eviscerated this part about you can do it
This super chat's trying to say roman's 10 is saying jesus will do it
So don't even think about say if you or who can do it paul's goal makes the quote appropriate
Right, that's the problem
that
That highlights the problem that you romans wants to convey that jesus can do it and you can't
That you're a sinner you're a los romans 3 romans everything right that's exactly what he'll do
It's just that idea does not comport with is opposed by the heber bible. That's the problem
He is saying who will go up for us to heaven. That's christ. Who will see is christ precisely and therefore
The question then becomes
Why did paul end with the word is near to you in your mouth and in your heart?
hard stop
like
Why not trust your readers?
in rom to finish the verse why leave out the point
That you can do it. So that's that's the problem. So right. We know why paul did it
What he is saying is is proto orthodox thinking that you're a sinner you're lost
There's no hope for you and only jesus could fulfill the law for you and that's how they read matthew's
um
Matthew five through seven the sermon of the mount
Right, so why not just tell me the verse like why not why cut it off?
Why cut out that critical point the Torah's view is that you can do it, right?
Paul's view is you can't do it
So this is exactly the conundrum that the Jew faces. We're not anti christian. It might sound the way
We're just going if I have to choose between moses where moses says you can do it
Not christ. There's no mention of that during there and paul says you can't do it
I'm going with moses on this one nothing personal paul. So if you're hearing
jewish people
Speaking about the christian religion the way that's unflattering. It's not personal. It's just
Jews people going where did you come up with that these ideas are not
In the Hebrew bible we're going with moses and why did paul leave it out? We know why you're right
It's naked paul left it out because jesus could do it does it for you
Why does he do it for you because he's perfect and sinless by the way?
Here's what I think you should ask and that is you know what?
But if he was I don't think paul believed that jesus was born to a virgin, but if I was the son of god
I wouldn't sin either like what's the big deal
If you're the son of god
Like what what exactly are you going to do wrong? Like what's the big deal?
The point is we're human
We're you know david like made me all mistakes if you're born to a virgin and you're the son of god
then
Big deal that you didn't don't get angry at me
But big deal that you didn't go into a gay bar in new warlings
You're the son of god right the whole point is that you're not your faith is not then you're there's no test
Oh, but he was tempted in the wilderness. What to eat stone to eat bread, but that's it's not real
So right that's the point. We know why paul did we it's not this there's not a mistake
For example, we have mistakes in the christian bible for which there's no logical reason
There are i'm not going to go through it now, but there are just plain simple
Mistakes people make mistakes. Those are not important to me. These are not mistakes. These are very deliberate
They're there in order to persuade the people reading these letters. They should believe in the intensive christianity
rather than the hebu bible
Thank you for that super chat abry
austin james were the apostles tour
Torah observant
Well, you asked me were they I I have no I have no sources for that as far as the christian bible is concerned
They are
There's a very interesting thing so as far as the christian bible is concerned they were Torah observant now there are times
when
the Pharisee the jews
see
The the followers of jesus doing something they thought wasn't correct like
pulling up
You know wheat on the Sabbath, which would be forbidden act
But it's so this is this is very intriguing. This is like at the end of mark chapter two as an example
so
jesus in defending their behavior because you're not allowed to pull
You can't like harvest food on the Sabbath that's forbidden
So jesus's response was completely within
Jewish law
He said isn't it true that king that david when he was on the run that he ate from showbred
Bread that an ordinary person was not allowed to eat from right
That was that's a great answer, which means
that
King david's life was in danger and therefore he was allowed to break the law that's using rabbinic
Thought in order to respond to his detractors, and I have a whole chapter in volume one just on this entire topic
This is very interesting
And I I don't I don't think I've ever said this on air, but this is very intriguing. So jesus actually is working within the
constraints of jewish law rabbinic law
To explain to his opponents of why what his followers are doing is correct
And he would be right because if their life was in danger on the Sabbath you'd be able to violate any law to save
life
Now here's something so interesting
So mark we talk about as our earliest gospel
But there's no question that there's an earlier gospel that doesn't survive
Because the author of mark doesn't stop there. He could have but he then has a commentary
And he ends the chapter by saying therefore
Jesus is the lord over the Sabbath. Holy smokes. Where did that come from? So that's a comment
That's not jesus talking. That's the narrator talking
That's where we could see an example
Where the narrator is inserting an
Antinomian idea that really Sabbath has been done away with but it's wrong
That means the author of the book of mark doesn't understand the book of mark. I know it sounds crazy
But the narrator who is the comment at the end really didn't get how elegant that conversation is
And we see this antinomian view popping all over mark mark seven
It's not what enters your mouth defiles who comes out of your mouth
So these are all antinomian ideas that of course have the presidents and paul's letters that are earlier
But here's an example
a crazy example
With the editor of the book of mark did not understand the canvas upon which he was painting
He no doubt had the story from an earlier source and then he puts an antinomian comment at the very end great question
I think denise mcdonald might want to hear that one because he's been working on q lately and
He's got some interesting things that I think what you just said would tap into
This is an insane topic. Yeah insane topic
It's so radioactive. I apologize. There's stuff in mark. That's so radioactive that matthew luke won't touch it
There is stuff like that. Anyway, yes
Great. Thank you. Thank you equal scales rabbi the prayer nishpat coal chai recited every shabbat is to be attributed to rabbi
shimon's
kifas thoughts
Peter
That's legendary. I don't know if it's true or not
so this
Right now none of your
viewers are going to
Watch reruns if I love lucy
So there is a legend that peter infiltrated the church and he didn't believe in any of it
And he infiltrated the church in order to get the church away from the jewish community
Okay, this is a legend. I don't know if it's true
It's one of these very strong legends. There are sources for it, but I can't say that this is true, but essentially the
Look the word
Christianity doesn't appear in the christian bible
The word christian appears three times in the christian bible. It's never used by a christian
So it's it follows it is not a stretch to think that the earliest christians are so themselves jews
but another iteration of
of judeism
But that was problematic and that peter was sent in to infiltrate the church and then pull the church away
this young fledgling church away from the synagogue
And
The this is legendary and there are some people who don't like this, but it's there are sources
They're just not hard sources
that in fact
peter
His name is shimon
Just asked that he would be a shorter place in the world to come if he would carry out this task
And that maybe explains a coincidence following the legend that why peter is odd in the christian bible
In some ways, he's very important. He's the rock and the other ways
He's a he's the bumbling guy who's always making mistakes dying christ. It that might explain it
Maybe but the key is then the
Legend has it further legend very important
That he is the author of
nishmas kohaii
that
The soul of i have to translate that of every
being
Of praises your name
So that's that's how the legend goes. Do i know but i have no idea, but it's a very big legend very big
huge
Thank you. Thank you dust and folk. Thank you for the super sticker my friend. I appreciate the love
For for rocker could paul's vision of jesus be more attributed to his hellenistic background rather than anything else
I think about this a lot
um, not many orthodox rabbis do
So i don't think that paul had
A non-veredical experience. I hope you got all those words in
I mean, i don't i don't think paul like had an experience that he misunderstood
That's what i mean by non-veredical. I don't think he had any of that
I think he was a very much a joseph smith character. Okay. I mean joseph smith didn't like
He wasn't walking around upstate new york and just thought he encountered an angel. No
All right, so that's how i think about paul now i but i want to add a little color to that what i think is going on here
In that in the angel world, and that's why i like when you you describe the hellenistic the hellenistic world
People talk that way
And you're gonna get it you the view are gonna get it because
Presumably you've been exposed to the pentacostal chrismatic movement. That's a fast growing movement in
all over the world
And assemblies of god as an example, so if you ever been around pentacostals, how do they talk?
They go the lord spoke to me, you know
Later on my heart people
Perfectly normal people say this stuff now i'm not telling the people just make up stuff like you know my head exploded
And then it came back i'm not doing weird crazy stuff
But because a lot of chicanery in that movement, but among normal people once you're in that kind of
um
in that world
Tertullian actually belong to a a group that had this kind of like i just received a prophecy lord spoke to me people
So that's what i think
Paul lived in a in a universe
That people just talked that way, you know later on my heart
I felt the lord came to me and every one of you watching this unless you're from jerusalem
Have met people who are normal people who talk that way and it's not like they're lying
They kind of know it wasn't really a voice
But and and what what i have viewed in my life
Doing what i do for well over 40 years is that there are people then just
Exaggerate the story the story just becomes more and more embellished as time goes on
That's what i think i thought but paul was very very much a joseph smith kind of figure
He did not have a non vertical experience in my view
He but he lived in a world what people just talked that way and remember in the ancient world
I mean people talk that way now
And this is common
Imagine the ancient world while people couldn't explain stuff what people would
You know, there really was a god of the gaps. I mean people didn't know a whole lot about anything
So in that world certainly people just felt something and they you know, the lord is speaking to me
They didn't know what lightning was they don't understand what an earthquake was
So, yeah, for sure. You know, that's what I think
Thank you so much radar apologetics rabbi tovia singer
I would love to have a discussion with you on whether Jesus was the jewish messiah or whether paul
Was antinomian perhaps a moderated debate. Let me know if you're down
I don't know this person has been i don't know who they are yet
Well, yeah, I look I do them live and it means in person
And all my debates are moderated
um, but I haven't
I don't I don't know who you are so but and I'm not going to say more but there might be some juicy things coming up
um this summer
but
Yeah
Fingers across we can make a debate stuff happen. Well, let's not say anything. We'll leave it there
All right, all right
Aubrey van zil, I hope i'm saying that correctly
Exodus 422 the new shall say to pharaoh thus says the lord israel is my son my firstborn
Isaiah 49 through elimination and substitution defines the servant and messiah as god's firstborn son
Whoa, where did that come from?
You I was with you there and then
went I say what is like the most gorgeous gorgeous the yummiest
chapter which contains a conversation between the
Righteous remnant of israel and god and god is saying i've got a job for you
He literally addresses the servant is israel in verse three and says i have a massive job for you
Like what do you want me to do? Oh, you've got to um
You've got to bring about a redemption for the tribes of jacob and be a light to the nations
and the servant goes
But everybody hates me i'm despised of nations
like
How am I going to do it's very much like a conversation between moses and god
and
and
And the servant feels unworthy of this task remember it's two-fold task
To save the rest of the jews who are not religious the tribes of jacob and to save the non-jews to be a light to nations
This is if you want you want to hear something beautiful
There's no messiah that stuff in there, but this is gorgeous just if I may may because it's really simply exquisite
so the services
There's no way I can do this everybody hates me. How am I going to do this and god uses
An example of a nursing mother
He asked the question
Verse 15 would a woman who's suckling her child would she ever abandon the child of her womb?
Well, the thought is no she's the mother
These two might forget, but I will never forget you that's really beautiful stuff like
I so love you. I am so connected to you
And then I'll write you on the palms of my hands for all the world to see that I love you
This theme is how does isaia 50 begin? Remember guys contact context isaia 50 is more reassurance
How does isaia 50 begin now all the christians know isaia 53 but 50
Because you feel rejected the spies same language as isaia 53 isaia 50 begins with the first verse
When did I divorce you? Where's your bill of divorcement? You're safe at creases
Who did I sell you to which creditors did I sell you to?
I never got rid of you. I'm just angry at you
So there's really gorgeous stuff, and I hope that's something I am saying
I hope
I'm saying would inspire some of you to open it up and read it the servant feels rejected the spies
And you'll see it continuing isaia 54 the woman who hasn't had a child
And and god is saying you can make it you can make a difference in the world
I've got a mandate for you, and I never divorced you. I never sold you out
This is the most elegant use of biblical Hebrew in all of Tanakh
Thank you so much
Moving to ta
Matthew 23 15 you travel over land and sea to win a single convert. Did jews actively seek converts in the first century?
I
Can't answer that
I can I I don't know the Matthew 23. That's a
that's a that's
the the the source where Jesus is
We are told of viscerate. Oh, he's
Telling the jews that they they really are not good. It's not a good chat. We don't do well in that chapter
Um, I don't think so. I don't have a source for it because we don't when we don't proselytize
Um, so it it doesn't seem that way to me
But I can't say there was not a group
You know when I answer a question I say here's the evidence
I can't say that there wasn't a group that was doing that and we're not aware of a group
But we're not proselytizing because you don't need to be jewish to be saved
So there'll be no reason would we want to spread there's one god? Yeah, we'd want people to know about it
But sure, but there are there aren't sources for that
Most of the sources is that we shouldn't try to
To proselytize others
Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Brainake was paul herodian
I
Can just tell you that he wasn't I don't know I just could tell you that he wasn't a Pharisee
That's all he thought in greek. He didn't just write in greek. He thought that way he quoted greek writers. He
Was he a rhodian? I have I I just don't know. I mean he claimed I think he pushes far in Philippians 3 when he claimed that
He's a from the tribe of benjamin
Circumcised on the eighth day like I don't know any jew introduces himself that way
um
There there were arguments that paul wasn't jewish makobi in his very interesting work called the myth maker
I I I don't think that's correct. I think paul was a
highly held
highly educated helonized jew, but I'd have no
He was very pro-roman. That's the key and that's possibly he was very pro-roman he
Now was he a citizen of roman's axe claim or paul doesn't make that? I don't know but his
view on the roman empire was that the roman empire
Was put in place by god and therefore you must dutifully
Be respectful of it not rebel against it not because it's a bad idea
It's not pragmatic, but because um, you're you're rebelling against god if you go up against the empire
That's roman's chapter 13 verse 1 2 and 3
So that's very there's very strong stuff in there
paul is very the whole the christian bibles is very pro-roman very very rental. This is a huge topic
Thank you. Thank you austin sefton
I discussed isaia 53 with a pastor. I know
He argues that there seems to be two servants in isaia 49
Which gives runway for a messianic interpretation?
Are there two servants in your view?
I I just would encourage people to read it read it for yourself
Uh
God is addressing the servant who's the righteous remnant
If you want this thing really cool, and I know you're watching man on computer
If you read these passages, it's it's and you're a christian. It's very possible that you'll take a deep breath
If you open zeffaniah chapter 3 verse 12 through 16
If you did that now it would blow your mind away zeffaniah who lived exactly where I am in jewslam
Is jeffaniah 3
Describes the righteous rem of the jewish people
And we are told that I will leave in your midst a humble people who will dwell safely. It's a messianic passage
zeffaniah lived during a time of germany at the same time
and um
And they'll be they will not commit inequity. There'll be no
There will be no lies found in their mouths
And they'll dwell safely and this is the humble rem of israel literally says that
So this is a parallel passage of isaia 53 of isaia 49
This theme is all over. That means there's there's all kinds of jews out there
Who whatever right forget them
But there are some that are are very devoted to god. That's the remnant
and if you want
Sort of an intimacy with these kinds of passages. I just recommend it zeffani. I know some of you viewers are doing this now
zeffaniah
3 12 through 16 then you have parallel of isaia 3 you'll literally just stand there and stare at it
But it's it's one thing guys listen carefully isaia's
90% literally of isaia's poetry
Be very careful isaia doesn't read anything like joshua
So 66 chapters only six of them are written using standard pro. So
Be careful with it. If you don't know the context you're smoked. You're done
Watch my series on the book of isaia that i'm doing here in jewsland
So you can study it, but almost all of it is poetry. It's not
It doesn't read anything with the book of judges
So be careful because you're very susceptible with isaia if you don't read it in context. I'm just starting it straight away
Thank you. Thank you. Aaron smith has judaism always been monotheistic
Yes, of course, that's the core of our faith here at wisral the lord is a god the lord is one
There is no one else besides me isaia 46 verse 9
Nehemiah
chapter 9 verse 6
You are lord alone is god. I mean this is like so powerful like what do you need?
Like what do you need? So yeah, so
That's the essence now. I want if I may just a point
People don't understand why monotheism is so critical
Like who cares is this a numerate issue of
Just get the number right and I think intuitively and I think this applies to people who are religious
And people who are not religious people intuitively understand that if you don't believe in one god
But it doesn't really matter if you believe in five gods or eleven gods
It sort of doesn't matter anymore. It's either one or it doesn't matter. Why?
So I want to convey this point the the radical monotheism of our faith
Tells us about the nature of god if there's one god and no other
So that tells us about his character. He must be
Love and kindness because he didn't have to create this world. There's nothing you have that he needs
This is very critical in Judaism. There's nothing you could do to make god's existence any better. He he's eternal
But he's one alone
and therefore
The act of creating the world could have only been an act of complete love and mercy
The moment you injure the radical monotheism you injure the
The power of god, that's why in christianity. It's a damaged
highly damaged monotheism and because of that god in christian thinking and
Just forgive you if you confess and regret what you did someone had to die for your sins
Jesus had to pay the price. Why do I need Jesus to pay the price? Why can't god forgive me after all?
I forgave my kids for mistakes. They've made am I more merciful than god?
That's the damage
So the radical monotheism is that god therefore if he's one alone and there are no multiple persons in a godhead
That means he must be love or else how
What does he need this world for so the oneness of god conveys the very character and nature of god?
So great question. Thank you
Thank you so much appreciate that
Next question is abri again. Thank you for that super chat. Is isaia 53
Regardless of who you think the servant is implies atonement for sin is possible
Jesus was a high priest in the order of melchizedek atonement is not via law of moses
I was right with you there and then you went to hebrus on me and left isaia. So the moment you're playing
When that way I went there's a problem and the plan has to land. So jesus being a high priest
Okay, so that's
That's from the book of hebrus. That's a big deal in hebrus
The book of hebrus is the longest argument against Judaism the entire christian bible
Okay, um and hebrus
Who wants jesus to be everything so he's I mean look how the book of hebrus begins
It's a new order and jesus is higher than angels. He's christians claim that the angel lord is jesus
The book of hebrus begins by the polemic against that idea high the moses josh or everything
He's the high priest now. He can't be a levitical high priest from like like i'm a priest from the from erin
Because he's supposedly from the house of david. So it's the priesthood of malchite sedic and that's a
um a reference an unambiguous reference to genesis
13 14
But that priesthood means that you'll defeat your enemies, which is exactly what jesus didn't do
Cross reference to psalm 110
So right there's nothing like that in isaia of d3 and you see what happens is people just sort of mush it together
So isaia d3
Who contains 12 passages first aid is
Soliloquy of the gentile nations when the messiah comes and what they're going to say when they realize they're all wrong
verse 9 through 12
Is is god speaking and explaining what the whole deal is so the gentile nation is speaking and they're saying two things
Number one we realize now the servant who is israel isaia as we talked about to go 41 42 43
And so the servant is israel
Number one suffered as a result of our bad behavior
The pasha ami negal amo for the
Translation of my people they were stricken verse 8 and number two is that jewish suffering
triggers within the non-jew
a reason to
There are people who i have met
Who whose views of god and views of the jews changed because of jewish suffering
It has a very big impact
And there are many people who want to convert the jews and become nookhaids whatever because they
saw what the jewish people have gone through
Bias strikes we were healed
So this is this is very important
isaia 53 verse 1 through 8 is a soliloquy
Remember isaia 52 verse 15
So shall he cast out my nations kings will shut the mouths of us
So the gentile kings of nations
Pronouncing a two-fold message first. We can't believe what we're seeing. We surely did
The servant got what we really deserved. We did it and it triggered. He interceded on our behalf
We pray for them
And and then god resumes in verse 9 10 11 12 the last four verses
It's really a gorgeous chapter, but you if you my friends if you
Dare read any chapter in isaia without knowing the chapters i introduce it
You have no chance and you're just going to follow the commentary of the person who you like
So if you want to take control of your life, I just say this to you
And you're dealing with isaia
You've got to read the context or you're just going to go. Well, I
Like this rabbi. I don't like this rabbi and my priest said don't do that. Forget me
But read the chapters that introduce the chapter or else you have no chance of understanding
This is not like leviticus 11 where you could read it out of context and know that you're not supposed to eat a pig
Isaia doesn't read anything like that. It is all poetry. Be very careful with it
We have eight more and
Hopefully we can get through these here
Inquisitive mind. Thank you for the super chat says
In in 33 53 compulsory for jews to live in israel. I don't know what in 33
53 is
I have no clue what in 33 is
Do you know what he's talking about? No
No
Thank you appreciate that
It is a command. I mean there are many commandments which could only be performed here in israel
It broke moses's heart that he could not come to the land of israel to perform these commandments. So
Um adam greens says did yes you help bring the nations to ha shem
No, is there been a greater stumbling block
Than christianity than jesus
Is there any religion?
that have pushed peoples
to
worship
Three persons and a godhead and
And become the most warlike of all nations and the greatest enemies of the jewish people
There's has there been a people that have persecuted the children of israel more than the church
Has there been wars that have been fought?
That are more bloody than religious wars than the wars that christians engaged in
The bloodiest religious war in human history in human history
Was a war fought between christians
Um from 1618 to 1648 the holy roman empire was
Eviscerated and changed the way people thought about religion and god
Um, is that your idea of a messiah? I don't think so
I encourage you to read isaia chapter two
m'shech will
Bring haykacha rebuked to the nations and they'll take look at all the world today tanks and
And missiles and rockets they'll be turned to plowsheds and corny hooks nation will not lift up sword against nation
Not only learn a warning more when the tanks stop moving in ukraine
And in israel you'll know the messiah is here
There's been no religion that has brought more war and unbelief and
animosity towards the jew
than the church
and in fact the
Jew hatred that you see in the world that's not from christians
It's all plagiarized from the church all the church fathers hated us the reformers did as well
So that's your idea of messiah. No, thank you
Appreciate that abry again says isaia 496 servant cannot be the remnant because he must save them
Quote it is too small a thing for you to be my servant to restore the tribes of jake up and bring back those of israel
I have kept
Right, so we answer that remember that
So I explain that there's two things that the servant right there two things servant have to do
They have to lock him as shift a yakov the righteous remnant
The jews who are faithful, we've got a whole bunch of jews that aren't I know this will
Come as a surprise to you that there should be jews who are not religious jews who barely know that they're jewish
Jews who are lost in india who are coming back to israel today jews from ethiopia
Jews from all over the world that are lost jews in
who are in
in south africa jews from the lomba tribe
Who we know now are from priestly families because they're dna
The role of the remnant is to bring back
What is loho kim as shift a yakov? They are to bring back the
To restore the tribes of jake up
We're only two and a half tribes today
Nine and a half tribes have disappeared and there's a restoration
So no it's not this is standard stuff, but you've got to you got to sniff this stuff out
I apologize, but this is standard christian stuff. Well israel saves israel. No, it's the remnant
have
Two mandates mandate number one is to take care of the rest of jake up means all israel number two has it end to be
I gave for you to be
Or go in leo she she was the odd could say are us until the end of the world
So the role the jew is to be a light to the nations
So the religious jews, I don't know how else to say it has to bring back those jews who are not religious
Right. It's not all of israel's singing all of is also remnant saving the rest
Please no more super chats to everybody. Um, they keep flowing in and I keep putting the banner saying no more
And people keep throwing some more in here and there and I understand you want to ask your questions
We will be doing a part two to the live stream next week
And the next one of course is continuing in the first question
Which I think the questioner knew your position as a religious person
I want to make one point as
Someone who's an atheist who's a skeptic
People in religious communities have certain ideas about things that I would disagree with
Your views on same-sex relationships and stuff will probably be different than mine
But I ended up having to block them from constantly doing the communication in the chat
And they say unison clay on it's not gay men who are broken. It's religious bigotry that needs to be fixed
So I understand this is your statement. I just wanted to bring the super chat up
I asked up front like to keep these things as courteous as possible, but
Can I address that? I want to address that. I think it's a very valuable point
And this really affects me and my fellow rabbis and we talk about this constantly is all doing it
So I want to make this very clear
Most people who are gay do not contact me or other rabbis
You know the the contact I would have with someone who comes to me
Is not a you know a standard cutaway of any community
But it's rather people are coming to rabbi because they want help
So let's just rehearse all this for a moment. Of course, there's a series of relationships
that are
Encouraged and others that are forbidden. That's just you know, that's not that's not a big secret
Right, but they can
If I may just to point out
Some people are so staunch in progressively trying to push the movement
And I understand treating everyone equal and everyone needs to be treated equal
So much so that even if this is built into your religious system
That you think these things are not normal or they're not what is acceptable to Hashem
That I shouldn't even be talking to you that you're a bigot. That's how far
They're they're going is that you're just a bigot period and I guess everyone in history for the longest
That held to these ideas were just purely bigot now
Right, how would you how would you navigate? I want to tell I want to tell you about randy
okay
This goes back many years
Randy was a jewish kid who
Well wound up in the messianic movement
He and I sat all night
All night. I don't know it was very late
and at the end of the conversation he
He figured out that his place was not a
Was not to be a christian
And he said I have a problem randy's words not yours randy's words
I've got a problem
And you're doing this long enough. You know, it's gonna come
Okay, so I you know, you want me to enter your world. I like you to enter my world
okay
And
He's saying I've got a problem. I see what is it?
And he he was very uncomfortable
And I don't remember his words, but it ultimately came out that he said that he
He's a track and tell the men
okay
Now he's he was really broken. He was broken. I'm not talking about a movement
I'm not I don't have relationships with movements. I have people come to me. They self select talk to me communicate with me
And I said to him you're very lucky. I envy you
Hey, what do you mean? I said in truth
well
This is what I told him will god reward me for not having the relationship with another man
Probably not
It's not something I would choose
But you this is something that you find attractive, right?
But if you say that even though I do this is a relationship that the tourist has forbidden
You know how great your reward will be that's what I told him and he like was blown away by that
And he's living in Baltimore today. It has a beautiful family
But I explained to him just coming for him. This was for Randy not for you
That's for him
for him
It turned what he thought was a curse in his life that he had this additional attraction to men
In that conversation I conveyed to him that
He had in the Jewish view a tremendous opportunity to go. Wow
I you know, I can serve God in a way that
Rabbi single can
So that's what I deal with and you know at the end of my day
When I'm answering the emails and the calls and the people and talking to
People but it's true. So that's why I said at the very beginning
What I think about is the people who come to me
In their pain, of course
There's a very unambiguous list of forbidden relationships. Leviticus 18. We all know that let's be adults about it
You're asking me how does it strike me? That's how it strikes me
And if I may make a comment on this just because I host you all the time
Well, not all the time, but it's pretty common
I see you as a friend and I enjoy these dialogues that we have we have a lot in common on critiquing new testament stuff
You know, I don't see the uh, Hebrew scriptures the same way that you do
You know that I don't believe the same way that you do
People go, well, how can you have them on without spinning the entire episodes only trying to go after
His foundations his scriptures and I say well, why do you think these shows go on?
I mean, I do episodes that are critical of the bible
And I'm not ashamed of that at all. But when we come on I try to be respectful and find common ground
I'm not interested in debate. I'm not that kind of guy. You can go to other people's channels and find them
They're into that I'm more into dialogue and then also critiquing something we find common ground on
I'd speak to a christian if we're critiquing Islam
I mean, I've had several christian scholars on who may not be fundamentalist
But I'm more than happy to do the same and I just think
Some people have a very narrow box in which who they think should be spoken to or have communication to
And I don't have that narrow of a box that if you have a certain outlook on life or imagine if someone's vegan, right?
And it's built into your religion to eat meat
It's part of your religion. Let's just say
Um, I shouldn't speak to you because well
If I'm a vegan and I think harming any life, well, how dare you bring on this killer this murderer of animals to talk to
How far do you go and I'm just making a point that you know, you're not you don't hate
gays, right
Of course, no, I mean, we're just trying to make the point
Look, all we're doing is is all I'm doing is helping people who have questions and
and
Anyway, that's a pretty
And the vegan thing
You know, it's you know, the Torah in enjoins us not to muzzle a nox
And Deuteronomy 25 for when it's treading
right
Like sacks and sharp adesio and it's paul
that we'll talk about another time that
Use that as a fundraiser and ask the question does god care about animals?
That's uh first Corinthians nine
Nine and ten, right paul is messing with the text and i'm not
right
Good point
Thank you. Thank you
Aubrey, what is the meaning of hosea 6 2?
After two days, he will revive us on the third day. He will restore us
That we may live in his presence
It's an interesting verse gets kind of touchy on the three-day thing we were talking about earlier, but it's not that but go ahead
If you don't read it in context, you'll have no chance of this
But hosea is addressing a frium. Please read it in context
A fri will be like a lion to a frium. Look read it just in context
Who's hosea speaking to like i'm in Jerusalem right now hosea did not live here hosea was all the way in the north
near lebanon all the fun is
hosea was addressing the northern kingdom a frium was the lead tribe
So all you have to do is read in context rather than trust your cross references
What's going to happen to the northern tribes that hosea is addressing?
they're going to be
Sent away they're going to be lost. They're going to be destroyed by the syrian empire
They don't make it for the first day the day here is referring to the epic of the temple in the first temple
They don't make it to the end
Hosea lived during the us syrian empire as a contemporary of aize of amos of micho
They all lived during the syrian empire roughly two centuries before the destruction of the first temple
So by the time we get to the destruction of the first temple, who's alive then?
cheramaya
Ezekiel
They lived during the babelonian empire. They don't even make the first day
In this case the first temple during the second temple period the jews return back to the land of israel
Filling the prophecy of cheramaya 29 verse 10
And the second temple where there was there anyone that's the second day
Was there anyone from the northern kingdom meaning the ten lost tribes present answers?
No, they were lost for the second day
So please read the context or else you don't have a chance
What will happen in the third temple the final temple the messianic temple?
I encourage you to read
Isaiah 43 verse 6 7 8 the gathering of the lost tribes
Ezekiel 37 take two sticks on one right. What my friends?
What do you write on one rod you write?
Ephraim Ephraim same as here and his companions on the other right juda and his companion take two sticks place them in your hand
And they become like one rod. What does that mean?
That's the restoration of the lost tribe. So they will be revived. This is Ephraim the lost tribes in on the third day
And what christian bibles do is they do exactly that
So there is nothing out on the side being
Dying and then rising the third day from the tomb so they take texts
That's referring to the ten lost tribes and their restoration on the third day meaning in the third commonwealth
Which is to come the restoration of the jewish people see Jeremiah
23 verse 5 and 6 I hope when I say things like Jeremiah 23 5. I hope you'll look it up
I hope some will type it
In the text bar so you guys can look this up
So there's a restoration. That's the third day
And I say this to you if you don't read this stuff in context
The church is going to love you if you read hosea 6
in context
You're not even a wait
You're going to contact your credit card company and ask them to halt payments immediately. You'll just call
Mastercard you go online and just say put a hold on the credit card. That's what you do and in fact hosea 6 6
It says I delight not in sacrifice, but rather the knowledge you've got rather than burnt offering see mica 6 6
So look guys listen
You got to read these books chapters in context
If you want to stay a christian do not do this
Do not read isaaf 3 of hosea 6 in context if you like being a christian
Just read the selected passages out of context and you will remain in your respective churches in good standing
Nothing to worry about so if you like the way Jesus feels
Don't read these in context
Conversely if you want to know what the author is speaking about
Whether you're a theist
Whether you're agnostic or an atheist, but you just want to know what this literature is talking about
Read it in context
Thank you for your question
Thank you. Thank you. Jonathan stein says rabbi. Can you explain your theory that paul was a homosexual?
What do you base this on?
I I can't my theory is for many years. I wonder we talked about it on the show earlier like you like
paul is
Consumed with sin
uh consumed with the
Thorn in his flesh
He speaks about that
his
He's very aware of sin something very shameful
and a chapter that's very
moving or
I think is very
Revealing as paul's
brief
Speech to fellow jews in rome. That's roman chapter seven
We talked about that
When he discovered when he himself discovered the law
That's when he died to sin. So like what what does that mean if he was just grew up in a farisake family?
his um
cherishing the celibate life
And encouraging others to do the same now. It's important to mention that
paul uh does encourage
Families will marry your husband's wives to love each other for sure. He's not saying don't worry
But he believes that you know that people who are not married and so on just stay that way if you can
Be like me. It's and then he says it's better to be married than to burn
So if you can't so to him the eye, this is so
Look, this is not the way orthodox jews
Talk thing. It's just not
You know marriage is very very valuable. Let's kind of talk. Where does it come from? Like why would he?
Value now we we could sniff this out in the gospel. So i'm not going to go into unless someone else
So you had to put this all together. What was it that bothered him so much? Like what what would?
explain all this this because although i
um
I don't have a favorable view paul
um, but you have to wonder like and paul was very
He liked paul means he wanted he wanted everyone to respect him. He's also
His expression about homosexuality in romans, which goes further than the torah
That means in romans one. It's not the only place where but he's like very
He like you know, there are people who are just just outrageous in the things that they say about
Just very strong
Like why that much? It's like a little much
So for many years I go what what would explain all this what would pop? Why would he feel such shame?
Why would he feel this this thorn in his flesh?
What would be this shame and this was you know, you know very much
augustine
You know confessed about his his trouble past and
People struggle with this and there's no new then and augustine's menacheism where he look he he he talks about it paul doesn't
so I think
That the best explanation. Well, this is probably that paul struggled
with his sexuality and I think that
And I think that in the empire just to finish off this piece is very provocative
In the empire homosexuality was you know, people were in bet. How the whole thing it was it was a part of the whole thing
And I I talked I did a show where I talked about germomnia
Very important work by tacitas. We talked about how the germanic tribes
Who eventually he doesn't live to see it destroy room. They were more family and
In the empire it was so I think that paul struggled with this that when he
realized the magnitude of this that sinful relation that
That that I think must have played a role in his life. I can't be sure but that would explain everything
That's why I think that
Thanks for your answer and yeah, I made the comment earlier
It could be due to the culture and the tradition as to why the shame is there
To begin with a lot of people looking at the rest of their families and households and then I'm different
I have an attraction in a different way and and I'm just built differently than the others
so
Yeah, if your tradition is condemning a certain thing that you just so happen to be
Going down that path you could see a reaction like paul in the new testament
Potentially if you psychoanalyze the words saying why is he still against this thing?
Maybe because he's fighting himself and he he seems to be struggling with himself the whole time
Thank you so much. This is a view. This is a view of of bishop shall be spung
Uh an episcopalian priest that was his view
I thought about that for a long time and I'll tell you this I've had that this conversation
With many new testament scholars many of whom have appeared on your show
We just thought this is something that people really think about
We don't have evidence, but you you you try to figure out case, but what's going on in his head
Believe me. This is conversation that people that new testament scholars have exactly like what would solve the issues
This is not weird stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Philip david philip. Thanks for the support appreciate that
Thanks for being here
Nosta conform and I think I know this guy neil says rabbi
Can you name one thing paul says in his seven authentic letters that makes you think he was raised at the foot of gamelail?
Try hard to still man this is there anything?
He he thought in greek he
No, there is um, he thought in greek
He talked in greek
He wrote in greek. That's where his mind was and in order to understand this you you do
Have to come from the jewish world and in case you think i'm saying that because I want paul to buy my books
I'm not
If you take your first course with any new testament professor
I'm out of where the first thing you're going to hear day one is you can't understand jesus unless you understand
The jewish world from which he emerged which was pharise egg
Because if you don't understand the context the crucible from which christian you can't understand what's happening here
so
This is critical to go to when you when someone is a religious jew
Reads paul. We're going okay. This has no there's no relationship between that
And the hegel bible who are quite the contrary, right?
Thank you. Thank you
Equal scales and then we have one more after this rabbi
What are your thoughts on the islamic account of jesus's crucifixion given the contradictions between christian and jewish sources?
The the the chronic view of this
Is that although it appeared to you that uh
That jesus was killed. He actually was never killed. It only appeared that way. There's one passage like that in the koran
And
So we're four verse 157 I think
um
What do I think of it? It's
So muslims think that jesus was a a prophet. They don't think he was the son of god or any of that stuff
um
It means
I mean
You're asking me. How do I think that ever got into islamic thinking?
Just yeah, what are your thoughts on the islamic account of jesus's resurrect or crucifixion?
Sorry, and the contradictions right today. This is why islam has been less anti-seminic than christianity
this what I face more is because
In from the islamic view
The jews didn't kill jesus
And by the way, the context there is that you think you crucified him. You didn't so the jews are actually being addressed there
quite explicitly
um
I I think I I'm not a scholar of islam. I think about how that
muslims obviously believe the koran's the word of god
But I don't know how that
um, how that made it in I
Now there are views among scholars who really know a lot about islam. I'm not you know that
Who are not muslims who think that it infiltrated islam by some other?
Uh groups that thought the same thing. So there were ideas among christians
That jesus was never killed and it only appeared that way
That was a big big
idea
that because
That it only actually the name of that iteration of christianity is just it had just appeared to
um, the proto orthodox would fight against this so
Those scholars say this was barred from that. I am not a scholar of islam. I
I just couldn't tell you you'd have to figure that because I can't tell you how that got into the koran
I thought of it just throwing it out there there isn't what in what we call gnostic materials where
It appears that jesus has crucified
Exactly, exactly. I think that he really wasn't yeah, he's divine
Well, you know right as you can imagine muslims would find that offensive
But right so the gnostic christians did not believe that jesus was actually crucified
And they believe that jesus was just a deity and it only appeared that way
In fact, that's the name. There are quite a few iterations of christianity that say that it it didn't happen
It's interesting. I definitely find it interesting
Ben west is isaia 95 a messianic prophecy to begin with and thank you for that last super chat
So no, it's about chisky. Oh has a kaya
It's about
A people who have been in darkness finally saw a great light
If you want the whole story do read isaia 36 and 37
um
The contrast is the northern kingdom
They're destroyed carried off in three waves by the assyrian empire in the 14th year of chiskyahu
But what happens is the people who walk in darkness finally see a great light
What happens?
The assyrian empire surrounds drusel right where I am now
The jews didn't have a chance
All of judia was destroyed. I think you visited lachish when you came to israel with neil
I think I did. Yeah, I think so. I think you did. So lachish was destroyed south
All of judia was destroyed people on the apprehension that the syrian empire only destroyed the north
They didn't destroyed all of judia except for drusel. So imagine being here in drusel where I am now
And you hear the soldiers on the outside of the walls
There is a remnant of that wall still in the old city of drusel
And you think you're dead. You just don't know you celebrate Passover
And you think this will be your last Passover
and you
Wake up the next morning 15th day of the first month
And there's just silence
the first king
Excuse me second kings chapter 18 and 19
That's all I want you guys to do is to read the backstory
So they look over the wall and the entire syrian empire has been destroyed
So now what the christian translators do here and this is possibly the most
Possibly we talked about verses that have been played with texts that have been altered
These may be the most played with text. So every verb it says
Kiela to you ladlano
For a child was born to us because Hezekiah came out of nowhere
I mean his father was a really wicked guy
And it says a child was born to us. What did the christian translators do?
Either a child is born to us or a child shall we born to us?
Benita lano a child was given to us. What do you think the christian bibles do they put it in the future tests?
So they take a passage that's about something that happened in the past
They change the verbs every verb from the future tense
Excuse me from the what's called the perfect tense into the imperfect tense
We'll just use the past tense into the future tense and his name will be called
It doesn't say that by Yikrishman means his name was called this in the past tense because it has the the vuv
I don't want to go through the grammar, but it's in the past tense. So by
changing all the verbs in this passage
It then looks like it's speaking about something that's going to happen. It didn't happen yet
And then all those names are the name of God and it's
He's calling the god is calling the prince of peace all these things
So if you change all the verbs, you're going to have a christological
passage
This is a later corruption
meaning that isaib nine six and seven or five and six depending on what kind of babu we use
Would no one even thought to use that about Jesus at the time that the
New testimony was written and that's why it's not quoted in the christian bible
Even though passages prior to this do appear in matthew
four, I think 16th through 18
um
those appear
but
But not these because someone later second century thought of oh, we can play with this text too
By changing the verbs around so what was about cheskyo
Is comes to a future prophecy about the messiah who is
Who is divine one point here and that is
Of course, it's messianic in a sense that had the assyrian empire succeeded in killing
Cheskyo who destroying him
Then there could be no messiah in the future
So this preserved the davidic dynasty
In a miraculous fashion so that there could be a messiah. So in a sense, this is messianic in that
when the nation saw that cheskyo saved them
and
Jerusalem was preserved
And therefore davidic dynasty is preserved and of course the future mark messiah is preserved
And this is alluded to in the following passage. So you'd be very careful here
So it is messianic but not in the way that christians wanted to be messianic
Rabbi this has been a heck of a time. I really appreciate you coming on and hanging out for part two
I'm sure there's plenty more on paul that we can discuss and cover and go into context
And diving deep again. I appreciate you being here. I hope you stay safe
I hope I think with most of our audience
We hope that what's happening right now over there in soon
And um and the weapons are turned into plow shirts and peace
So
I'll be really nice
That would be is there any final words from you and I want everyone if you like rabbi go subscribe if you don't
Subscribe and go harass up. No, uh, you know, you don't have to so that's very thoughtful there
It's always at those tender moments
And that's why I think many people when having a funeral for their loved ones
what you to be the keynote speaker because
They know that you can live it enough
um what I could say is um that
the nation we were
On october 6th do not exist any longer the world has changed and we have as the people have changed
And I think in many ways the world has changed. So we're not the same. It's been a rebirth of a nation
And but this trauma goes on and on and please do
Whatever your faith is but keep us in your thoughts and your prayers that we should come to a moment when
When the nation will not lift up sword against nation and all the nation will speak in a pure speech zephaniah
Chapter three verse nine. We look forward to that. So thank you for your thoughts
Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks for the kindness everybody
We did get one super chat in the last second. Yeah, it didn't yadding. Uh, is it I think it's yadding. Forgive me
Zidek
What does the rabbi think about the sect at kumran and the dead sea scrolls? What's up the uh, appreciate it last question
and we got a roll
What do I think about the sect that that was in kumran? Yeah
I I think that they were a
They were very
satisfied with the corruption in the temple and wanted
They did everything they could possibly do to be as far away
from
What was happening in the temple? This is the first century
So rome is in control of this land. Jerusalem is where the temple was
It's where the money was where the power was it was a center of power
And they had felt that it was complete corruption
They gathered a library
Much of the dead sea scrolls was not stuff that they wrote rather they preserved
And they kumran was destroyed in 68 that means in the middle of the war kumran, but somehow that
that library
Uh was preserved, but they were apocalyptic eschatologists
That means they believe that the only way
That the world could be saved the israel that they could be saved was through a sudden
stunning shocking
um
revelation from god that would end the empire which they wanted
Nothing to do with and imagine how they felt about
What was happening in the temple the corruption that was there? It's that part is very transparent
I think that's very easy to understand
We don't have that many sources for the asians and if what happened in 1947 didn't happen
No one would ever talk about them, but now they're really interesting
Thank you for that question
Thanks so much uh rabbi tovising. I really appreciate you and uh everybody liked the video
And stay tuned for the next live tomorrow. We're going live again
Have a good one
