Looks like we're live. Welcome back to MythFusion podcast. It's been a minute. I should be telling myself that, right?
Haven't done it live in, what, month and a half? Month? So I hope everybody's doing well. I am working away on all sorts of stuff behind the scenes.
I'll fill you in on that as we unravel today's live stream. I really wanted to connect with you because it's been a long time.
I've been doing these documentaries on the origins of the Bible and really kind of trying to emphasize mythical antecedents where the Bible authors create or got their inspiration for the narratives we read in the Bible.
You know, this channel is called Myth Vision. And people were like, what's the secret code or what's the like hidden meaning? And I was like, when I first came up with the name of this channel, it was to put my vision on the myth and to focus on that part because I thought this was literally true.
I thought Adam and Eve were the literal first people on planet Earth. I thought Cain was the first murderer. I thought that Noah really was on this boat.
And then eventually, as I later on in the years tried to find it to be the Ice Age melting 12,000 years ago that Noah was actually on. And everyone copied the Bible, by the way.
So I, you know, I believe this was the real authentic account and that, you know, those ridiculous Gilgamesh epics were just full of themselves. Those Mesopotamians, man, they copied the heck out of the Bible.
And then story continues and I thought everything in there is what actually happened or at least to some degree happened because this was true.
And then I get to Jesus and of course, you know, that was literally true and what I was reading actually happened. So I started saying, okay, there's probably some liberty in esoteric or a way of understanding this that isn't so literal.
And maybe that's what the authors meant while I was still a believer started to get away from that literalist interpretation.
And I started to become what the more conservative Christians say, a liberal thinker, a liberal researcher. I went to these scholars who were more liberal in their approach, whatever the hell that means in academia.
This is not politics. This was just Bible study stuff. Our Calvinist brethren would say, get away from the liberal scholars and those Arminians and such.
And I started to realize, hold on, hold on, what I'm reading in the Bible in the New Testament, they're recontextualizing text from the scriptures that they had, which were the Hebrew Bible and stuff, the Septuagint mainly because that's what they're quoting from a Greek translation of their scriptures.
And they recontextualized, they would lift a meaning, even just a single sentence, and then give it a completely new interpretation.
And I thought, wow, so they were very liberal in how they interpreted their Bible.
Do you mean to tell me this whole time, while I was this conservative, we thought this is literally historically true, that Paul himself was changing the original context to his setting?
Like he says in Corinthians, when he says, you shall not muzzle an ox in it is written, right? Well, what that really means, brethren, is that, you know, I've been laboring.
And, you know, the other, the other disciples, the apostles really, they can marry and they can do this and that, you pay them.
But I don't want any of your money. And then he goes on to explain how this ancient text supposedly is actually talking about him and the church, not about actual oxen being muzzled.
Several examples you can get into, I've done episodes on this.
The point is, I started to think, what do I believe?
I'm still a Christian, couldn't let go of the emotions and the psychology that was behind this.
But I couldn't believe that it was literally the case anymore. I found other ways of understanding.
And then eventually I started questioning that. So it was a little downward step away from where I was.
I have a special guest who's going to be joining me today.
I figured I'd just let you know, because I don't want to leave him back in the backstage forever.
But I have Dr. Richard C. Miller, who's going to be hanging out with me today.
I want to go into some stuff. And I hope you do too, because I get excited discovering these interesting, I'm going to call them mythical narratives that are too much in common with our Bible.
And we got to get into this. So let me go ahead and introduce our guest. There's no reason in leaving him hanging. He's my brother.
Dr. Richard C. Miller, welcome back, my friend.
Hey, here. I'm going to be here.
Hey, I always appreciate you, man. Look, you are a wonderful host.
You put me and my wonderful wife over there at your house. We had a great time. We did a lot of recordings.
It made some noise. It's still making noise. We found ourselves on the William Lane Craig's podcast, actually.
Yeah, we're making waves. I think I can't tell you how many emails I've gotten and people jumping onto my author page on Facebook and stuff like that.
I've actually made quite a few friends along the way as well.
I tell you, it's interesting you were hesitant when we first met. I don't know, you know, but like, I read your work and I said, OK, anyone who's interested in understanding New Testament really needs, the best way I could put it is needs to place this Greek New Testament literature
in its milieu, looking at the cultural topos, the historical cultural understanding of Greek and Roman and Hellenistic Jews, really Jews period.
Look at Josephus, how he has Moses ascend. The scripture says he dies and gets buried by God somewhere.
Like, we don't know where people are guessing, but it leaves you hanging.
Well, why did Josephus add this little and it wasn't just Josephus Philo of Alexandria did this?
Or we were talking about this before we hit record how they're competing with the existing world and creating these narratives, having Moses ascend.
And your book does place, I think, this literature and its signals as you talk about in your book in that context.
And if you don't know that Greek and Roman literature and what they're saying and how they understand these things, you get to the New Testament, you're going to be like trying to read this literal historical approach that it actually happened as it said or something.
I don't know. It's weird.
Right. No, it gets it gets kind of historically gets stripped out of that ancient context that that vibrant world and where all sorts of stories were being told and they meant different things in that context gets pulled out of that context.
And where do we where do we find it now? We're in church churches where people are playing pipe organs and standing up and reciting creeds and having it's very, very different.
You get reading singing hymns or whatever completely alien context to the ancient world. And so these stories are registering in very different ways.
And on top of that layer, people are demanding or expecting pastors, ministers, religious leaders that everyone take this completely literally, you know, at least at least it's in some context.
And so and the last holdout, I mean, it's hard to even find this even in a liberal church where you have to take the resurrection literally if you let go of everything else.
That's the last stand, right? That's the that's the Alamo or whatever.
Yeah.
And it's peculiar in my research as I got back into there, you know, just letting go of the modern kind of viewed and fuss over everything.
You go back into the ancient texts and even what the earliest Christians were saying about them, that that kind of posture was just wasn't present there.
And the meanings behind these texts were certainly not the case that, you know, in terms of what people are thinking now.
And so there your book, oh man, again, I have it over here. Let me plug.
I think it's only fair that I plug. Let me plug.
Where am I at? Did I just lose myself? Here we go. Share screen.
I'll be getting to the Patreon, the Super Chat questions here shortly.
I got your book pulled up here on Amazon, just so people know what it looks like. Go type in Richard C. Miller, resurrection and reception and early Christianity.
Now, this episode that we're doing right now, this live stream, it's a freestyle.
I kind of have some things I'd like to discuss and also go into some sources.
But I also figure why not mention some of the work that I've been working on lately, Dr. Miller.
And I know this is something you probably haven't had time to really watch some of these documentaries because they feel kind of like ancient aliens.
In the way that they, you know, they're kind of like, I'm ripping into that same area that's getting a lot of views.
So a lot of people are like, what's up with these titles? I'm sick of your titles.
If my title bugs you, go look at my most professional educated scholarly title.
Find out how many views that title gets with that thumbnail.
Then go look at these documentaries, watch them, judge the content, scratch the title and the thumbnail for a second.
Watch them and see how sophisticated educated scholarly deep into the weeds they go and how many views they get.
And you'll see why I'm trying to get a much larger audience to pay attention to what we're doing.
Because if you go look at a lot of these Christian Apologist channels that have a lot of views and a lot of attention,
they also some excellent editing and things like that. They're getting some big views and it's super sensational.
Like one guy, I can't remember his name. I was trying to find it earlier for Neil.
But one guy was saying they recorded the trumpets from Revelation.
The sounds are being recorded across the world.
Like hundreds of thousands of views in a few days. And I'm going, this is ridiculous.
People are being convinced. You know what I mean? Like what in the world? It's silly stuff to me.
So I'm like trying to give them real educated scholarly material, historical research and stuff.
And the work I'm doing is just I'm diving deep into characters throughout the Bible.
Trying to find you what I think makes the most sense as like a where they're getting the inspiration for that narrative from.
Yeah, it's exciting the work that you're doing. You really are, I think, taking it to the next level in terms of your presentation,
broadening your audience and yet keeping that academic scholarly rigor right along with it.
And also continuing to offer the same sorts of content that you've traditionally had that has attracted so many of your likes and subscribes.
And so bravo, man. You're doing a good job.
It's not easy to do both the interviews and the documentaries.
I'm trying to find a system that is efficient, but also affordable and yet do both.
And so I'm like right now in a tough rut because just I guess personal information.
I got my brother and his wife to go to treatment in a rehab to help themselves because they've been struggling with addiction.
And so that's been like a real like difficult time, energy, draining kind of thing and that we succeeded.
And so now it's just like, come on, you guys can do it.
But, you know, anyway, that's a whole different rabbit trail.
I don't want to get lost in. I want to confess that when I research Old Testament scholarship and stuff,
there's not a lot on Greek parallels, Greek connections, literally.
There are some people.
And as I've been looking these, I was thinking maybe I'll find them and then it'll be some quack stuff that doesn't ever mention or show the Mesopotamian,
Ugaritic, Canaanite, Phoenician, you know, things like that.
And the people who are actually seeing the Greek stuff are also highlighting the other mythological antecedents.
So they're not like Greek supremacists and it's only coming from the Greek world.
They're they're like saying, hey, it looks like the composition of the Bibles later than we think.
And yes, you've got the Tower of Babel, very ziggurat sounding Mesopotamian, you know, piece of furniture in this literature.
However, there are elements that are in the Genesis account and throughout the narrative structure of the Hebrew Bible that come from nowhere in the ancient world,
but Greece or the Greek writings that we find like take the genealogy in Genesis, that genealogy of nationalistic individuals,
people that represent nations in a genealogical form post flood like Dukallion.
There's nowhere in Mesopotamia that has that you have the Sumerian Kings list.
But they're not national genie genealogies of individuals who represent nations post flood the way that you see the Greek world does with Dukallion.
And Dukallion son is the first one who plants a vineyard.
Well, Noah's the first one who plants a vineyard like you start going what's happening here and so my documentary series is showing you just laying it out.
And I can't wait to drop the next two that I've been working on.
That's so exciting.
Yeah, I think that well, I think what we're finding is you've got it.
You've got a culture there that is competing alongside much larger cultures and civilizations in the ancient world and probably is anxious about that.
There's an interest to gentrify or to keep up to date their myth systems with the larger cultural kind of marketplace that's out there and with their neighboring civilizations.
And Greece, they led the way in so many ways.
And so everybody was kind of measured against them at some point, especially as they rose to prominence and in the Hellenistic period particularly.
And so it's interesting.
I think the puzzling question there is to answer who wrote these texts and when and why and under what payroll.
Yeah.
Yeah, who was who was sanctioning this, you know, in terms of, you know, the political structures of the time.
And so it really raises a whole number of questions that fall way outside of what traditional biblical studies is even explored for the most part.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
I feel like they're still like Velhausen influence, you know, like well housing, you know, with the documentary hypothesis kind of approach and we're getting more critical in that vein of documentary hypothesis but it's like we're getting to a point now where I think we're willing to
ask questions that break out of the traditional scholarly guild.
My father, my father's father taught, you know, in the field of scholarship and they kind of stick into that.
I think some of these guys that are challenging the status quo, that's what I'm examining.
I'm pushing the boundaries.
I understand a lot of it is not consensus.
But what is that but a lot of people who are in agreement on a certain idea because I'm not saying there isn't some validity to some of the arguments that are made, but it's messier than I think.
And, you know, this goes with like the queue questions, things like that, you know.
But I say all that to say to the audience, stay tuned in terms of the upcoming stuff.
I do appreciate everybody.
It's been a tough couple weeks with family trying to help with their illness here, the disease of addiction and helping them with that.
We have some documentaries coming out and I'm also going to keep doing these interviews.
We're also still doing courses.
Next year I'm going to be leading a tour in Israel with Neil and other scholars are going to be there.
So I hope to see you there.
This work I'm doing, Dr. Miller, I feel fits hand and glove into what you did.
And why not play a clip real quick from a Christian Apologist friend of mine.
I just recently was highlighted about that they mentioned me and I think you'll have some fun with it.
You want to do that?
Let's do it.
All right.
Just stay tuned.
I'm going to get your super chats here.
Constellation Pegasus.
I see you.
Thank you for the support, my friend.
All right.
Let me stop screen share and then share it so that it'll actually play through the screen.
My buddy here, Eric Manning from testify.
He said why atheists should reconsider Christianity.
And then I think he said in the thumbnail something like they need to do better.
But this is a this is an interesting part because my friend Eric like literally believes almost everything is.
I'm not going to put in words in his mouth, but I'd say I'd say I extremely high percentage in the New Testament.
He would say is what actually happened as it's described in that account.
So, you know, he might say wiggle room.
I don't say everything, but extreme amount.
So let's hear him expound here.
Here's another one that Bart Rubin use the same debate with Justin Bass.
He said Lucian of Samasata tells the story of Peregrinus Proteus a philosopher who purportedly emulated himself at the Olympic Games and witnesses claim to have seen a phoenix rising from the ashes the next day.
But this account is very fuzzy and it's open into interpretation.
Okay.
And so I don't think this is a very good, you know, comparison in the case where Bart Armin is concerned with the resident direction of Jesus, where he's saying touch me handle me.
Right.
I mean, he boiled fish with them and they know him and spent three years with him and he spent a period of 40 days with him.
Reportedly.
Okay.
All right.
Got to pause.
Now, Miller, we've just been stumped.
Checkmate.
Checkmate man.
What do we do from here, brother?
I think it's so that there's only I wish that he would have read the entire account or some larger portions of it or something like that.
You left out a whole lot there.
So you've got in 165.
This is pretty much a historical artifact at this point.
Proteus Peregrinus is a he's a philosopher at that time.
He had and this is an interesting fact that's not raised there.
He had been previously a teacher of the Christians and not just a teacher of the Christians.
He had been one of the foremost teachers of the Christians.
In fact, compared to almost a second Christ or even a second Socrates.
So they were they were heralding this guy as a high up figure within the echelon of early Christian tradition in the second century.
165.
Okay.
So this guy decadverts becomes a kind of a cynic philosopher in some ways and is giving teaching there on the road on the way that happens near the Olympic Games in 165.
Right.
He had set this up as a stage event.
He was going to throw himself into this big bonfire in front of the crowds.
So he advertised this as a thing.
And so people are coming to come see this crazy stunt.
Well, in the ancient world to us, it seems like a crazy stunt and it should.
To them, it was seen as a an exhibition of his escapists of his aesthetical devotion.
His philosophy had achieved such great, such a great maturity that even he was not afraid even of death.
And so that is that is basically the height of what that's what Socrates, you know, when he drinks his hemlock that he's not afraid even to die.
That that that is his philosophy and matured for that level.
And so this would have been viewed in fight in some circles, at least in the ancient world as an impressive kind of exhibition of his philosophical sophistication.
Because it seems crazy.
So anyway, he's and he's got disciples there standing by the now Lucian is writing it.
You're the person I've never seen this person before, but he says it's fuzzy or something like this.
Well, the thing that I think makes it interesting, actually, what he's calling fuzzy is what I think makes it interesting is Lucian is a critic of Proteus.
He's a critic of the Christians.
He's a critic of this guy in particular, because he sees him as a charlatan.
And he's a critic of, you know, this stunt that takes place.
And so you've got somebody who's writing basically from that standpoint from almost a satirical standpoint.
He's famous for that.
And so Lucian was one of these one of my favorite writers.
Anyway, so he's writing about this.
And there's more to it than this.
So it talks about how he's hesitant, doesn't want to throw himself in.
And then finally, he just does.
Okay, so he throws himself into the fire.
There's a huge crowd.
They're gathered, you know, the folks that wanted to go attend the Olympic Games, you know, went to go see the spectacle as well.
And so anyway, so the next day or like, I think it's like, so two days later, I think they're having the Panagyric.
And this is like a funeral service where people are getting up and saying things.
Now, what he quotes there is that as he threw himself in, some people reported that they saw a vulture or some sort of a bird fly out of the fire.
And it calls out with a voice to Olympus, I go, or something like this.
So he's going off to basically the heaven of that time period.
They had moved Olympus was basically almost like it is the same thing as heaven.
And they had already investigated that mountain and realized that there was nothing there.
And so, you know, the gods, so basically, it's kind of a figure of speech.
He's going to be with the gods.
Okay, almost like another realm, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's being translated.
Right.
It's a Satopheosis, right?
This is Ascension.
And so someone comes to the funeral the next day and says, I saw him in Athens at the portico of the seven voices walking.
I saw a Proteus, the translated raised Proteus, the resurrected figure walking in the portico of the seven voices with a garland of olive and a gleaming white toga.
And, and so they give, they give this and, and, and of course, Lucian is bringing that out as this is Bologna.
Yeah.
This is them wanting to give honor.
Basically, this goes right into my thesis in so many ways.
They're trying to honor him in his funeral by saying, Hey, I saw him.
This is their way of trying to install him in the Hall of Fame.
Lucian is a cynic and a critic of rather of this figure.
But Allus Galeus was one of his great fans, another great writer in the ancient world.
And so if you look up Allus Galeus, he writes highly of Proteus Paragranus and thinks he is one of the greatest philosophers ever.
And so just because, just because Lucian didn't like him, that, that does not mean that he didn't have, that he was for lack of fans and, and people that admired and venerated him.
And so, and that's what's going on at this funeral is his, his devotees and so forth are stepping forward and saying he's ascended to heaven.
He is now translated to be among the gods.
He's not going down to Hades.
He did not go down to Hades like, like most people, he's in the rock and roll of fame.
So to speak, along with Heracles and along with all the other greats.
And so in the Caesars and so forth.
And so this was a, it was an eyewitness testimony.
You've got a post resurrection parents.
You've got, and you've got a guy that's imitating in so many ways.
He came out of the Christian tradition and he's trying to do what to him.
This is the, what he saw.
This is, it really casts an interpretive light on the way this particular historical figure interpreted what had happened with Jesus in his own way.
Kind of rise to iconic significance in the Mediterranean world.
This guy's trying to do kind of pull off the same thing.
It's like a stuntman in some ways.
And so it really, it really kind of gives a, an interpretive echo in kind of that, that cultural chamber of, of what was going on in the way these kind of stories registered in the, in the ancient psyche and mind of the time.
Wow. There's so much to say there.
I think exploring that further is worth doing for anyone who's like, he was a Christian.
Now you come from a certain theology.
He was never truly one of us if he was, you know, that kind of thing.
But this guy knew the teachings.
He understood that obviously it wasn't, it didn't grab or stick in that respect, but he did end up with this martyrology, which does have common thread within Christendom.
And yet the Greek, not only just Greek, but pagan, what we like to call pagan, which has become pejorative.
You don't like using it and neither do many of the scholars, but you get what I'm saying non-Christian philosophies.
They also willing to die the whole nine for their, for their particular philosophy.
And you, you mentioned this in your book that the earliest literature that we see Mark and Luke for sure have no atonement model.
You see it in Matthew, but it kind of has more of a seemingly Jewish aspects to it that would have like sacrificial what we see in the Old Testament.
But in Mark and Luke, it's more martyrological about how to follow and act to your death with a noble death at the end.
And Luke, no fear, no nothing like Socrates, give me the cup and face your death like a man, that kind of thing.
So, you know, I've read your article stuff like that on there, but I figured I'd add that in there to make the point.
This argument apologists make all the time is that what they were willing to die and would you die for something you don't believe in?
And I almost, yeah, go ahead.
Well, just a comment on that.
I mean, you're correct.
In Luke acts, there is no death for sins theology there.
You don't find it.
So what's going on?
You get almost like a compendium of different martyrological tales.
Jesus figures prominently in that.
He's a major figure, obviously, kind of a foremost character within the story lines, but you several people are going in.
In fact, it ends with fall on his way to Rome and the implication is he's also going to die.
And so it's what's often described.
You see it.
You see it in lots of times in the even in the chat or the comment section behind some of the videos that we put together.
Who would die for a lie?
You get this argument just recurs over and over again.
Who would die for why?
Well, they weren't dying for lies.
They were dying in because they are such to express their dedication.
It's very alien to us.
The ascetical dimensions of the early Christians, you know, who would eat bugs?
Who would cut off their genitals?
Who would live in caves for years?
Who would, you know, you could fill in all of those.
And it is because of their ascetic.
And so in some ways, in many, I think it's a truism that martyrdom was the supreme manifestation of as cases.
That is your own renunciation of the world in the face.
And usually as a spectacle in front of Caesar, you wouldn't die in a security of wood somewhere.
You wanted to die as a spectacle.
And even more than that, you wanted to have it written up forever and embellished and told is a great.
Some kind of great deed.
And so Justin Martyr, for instance, a lot of people looked to him and think, oh, well, he was a martyr.
How could he not believe this stuff?
Well, he was in debate with other philosophers and he was understood.
If you go into Josepha into rather Eusebius and read his martyrdom account, it's him being basically an asshole.
Excuse my language.
He was treating other philosophers in ways that were inappropriate and calling them out.
And you've got even a quotation in there.
If you go and read Eusebius and what he goes ahead and preserves the kind of the writings and stuff that Justin Martyr had.
He was debating a cynic philosopher who had ties into political world and was basically shaming this guy and calling him a fraud and all these kinds of things.
And eventually, because it started upset enough people that were in political power, it was almost like death by top.
And so he was provoking.
And so you find this a lot with a lot of the early Christians, this kind of provocation where they're just not playing nice with the existing people and powers that be and get themselves killed.
They just ratchet it up and keep ratcheting it up and ratcheting it up until finally they end up getting themselves killed.
And so that's kind of what happened with him.
I think he was an interesting philosopher.
Some people say that he tried to become, I believe it was a cynic originally, failed and then decided, OK, well, I'm going to try and write for the Christians now.
He's heralded now as kind of the grandfather of the apologetic tradition.
He was not, he got killed not because he was taking this great historical stand on the claims of his religion, but because he was mistreating other philosophers in his day that were more prominent and powerful.
And finally that came around to it got to the ear of Caesar at the time and Caesar said enough.
And in that world, they didn't have it wasn't like freedom of speech like we have now.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I was going to bring up an example, something that comes to mind.
You I have a friend.
Obviously, I'm not naming names, but it's important.
You know, I help drug addicts a lot.
People who are struggling with addiction, drugs, things like that, because I have a past overcoming it.
And a friend of mine who also struggles with with both addiction and mental health issues went missing.
In fact, we're missing for four or five days.
We were thinking that we thought the worst at that time.
And so we called the cops to report a missing person and they wanted some details.
I did not know the law and how police work on this, but when we gave them the information and we told them that he also has preexistent mental health issues that he has been in mental wards before that he has mentioned in not to not the not too distant past.
He's suicidal.
The cops said, well, I hate to break it to you.
We won't be looking for him.
And I'm like, he's missing.
They said far too often.
I live in Washington state far too often.
They're a suicide by cop and they force cops to kill them.
So there is this behavior in which they make the cop who is out there looking for them.
They they'll violently even approach them in order to get them to kill.
And you reminded me of something you showed me and not too long ago.
I need to share this before we continue with my friends thing.
And that is the church father Ignatius.
Ignatius wrote a letter to the Romans.
As you pointed it out, I did an entire video actually showing this, but let's zoom in for people to see greetings Ignatius, who is also called the a force.
Now, when is this again the Ignatius is third fourth century.
No, he's he's very early.
He's like about 110 or 115 Ignatius.
I was sick of this later.
So he's pretty he's one of the apostolic fathers.
He's he's one of the earliest ones right after Clement basically and right around Polycarp.
Got it.
So he just greetings to the church in Rome.
He goes, do not save me from martyrdom for it is not my desire to act towards you.
I'm saying I think this is like death by cop suicide by cop kind of thing.
What I'm seeing you say based on Justin martyr and like also this because in this letter, if you go on to read it gets gruesome.
He says, let me be like the grinded food in the belly of the beast right so look here.
This is I am the weed of God.
Let me be ground by the teeth of wild beast that I may be found the pure bread of Christ rather entice the wild beast that they may become my tomb.
Notice what he's saying there entice the wild beast that they may become my tomb and may leave nothing of my body so that when I have fallen asleep in death, I may be no trouble to anyone.
A scholar wrote a book called something to do with the death cult like Christianity is a death cult.
And this is like this is not like some out to get Christianity academic.
He just points out how like it literally is exactly how I kind of portrayed myself.
I hated my body, the struggle I had with lust and in all the addictions in the world that I struggled with.
I hated this body when I was a Christian.
I struggled with that the thing I don't want to do I do and that whole thing.
I had this real real big problem and I wondered why and it goes right back to kind of Pauline theology of this idea of the flesh and I guess you could call it in a way platonic right it has some senses that seem to be platonic.
Yeah, there wasn't a lot of respect for the human body and that that you're correct it goes outside of even Christianity Christianity just almost radicalizes that in so many ways but there were other groups and asceticism was a larger wave that Christianity was writing.
It didn't really define it or start it but it definitely came to dominate that that as it rose to significance and prominence in late antiquity and so on.
And so the mistaken viewpoint that so many have when they look at this is they think these early martyrs were dying for some the set of historical propositions.
No, they weren't dying for Christ.
They were dying like Christ.
They wanted to die like Paul.
They wanted to die like Peter.
And so they were modeling or accumulating those figures and they felt like that that was their their show their way of showing their dedication or devotion to the movement and it's philosophical kind of stature and so in Eusebius refers to Justin Marr says that he was a great
philosopher it doesn't he's describing as a philosopher not as someone who's who's who's it's almost like people think that that these people that Justin and the others had this historical case almost like what modern apologists like they were walking around with.
I don't know how Lindsay or CS Lewis or something in their mind.
And it just is or you know whoever you fill in the you fill in the blank William Lane Craig you know they had this this this kind of this system of argumentation.
It was not a historical system.
This was a belief system.
And so and that was their posture toward it and they use these stories to enhance their philosophical praxis.
And so that they could achieve more by and this shouldn't surprise anyone that studies other religions that have any philosophical dimension to them like say Buddhism.
They're chock full of stories and the idea is that those stories are meant they're almost like ladders to get you to deeper philosophical kind of achievement.
They're not meant to be taken in this hard literal sense and that's the same thing you don't get the historiological cases that you would think would be just dominating the early Christian thought world.
There's just absent this this case for the resurrection just you don't see it anywhere you think that that would be going on all the time if that was their rich in idea for their their movement and ideology and dedication.
Why isn't that being talked about constantly throughout all of their texts and it's just it's just not there to be found they're out of arising there they're they're constructing philosophical positions.
You read the diddika it's full of all sorts of praxis teachings the way sermon on the mountain is again it's full of praxis and they're using these beliefs or myths in order to enhance their ability to practice.
As Dennis said in a debate with Mike Lacona who I actually respect I like Mike but he's Christian apologists he said I think it's the 95% of the gospels which is like the sayings and the teachings and the lessons and stuff like that.
That inspired the 5% you're dying on this 5% of like well Jesus got crucified and then there's this narrative of him resurrecting.
But instead it's it's the it's the life and teaching stuff that was really what inspired those legends about him that that Dennis is trying to say and of course.
I think Mike thinks the resurrection is what inspires the ultimate I mean sure it's the teachings to but it's like the ultimate thing to him is this resurrection because Paul says if he's not raised.
You know we have this kind of Protestant.
This is this is how we have to believe one comment real quick John D mentioned Ignatius was on his way to die when he wrote that.
I don't know if it necessarily falls he intended to get himself killed or you know in that situation.
Whether he did or didn't in here from Syria even under Rome I fight with beasts both by land and see both by night and day being bound to 10 leopards.
I mean a band of soldiers who even when they receive benefits show themselves all the worse but I am the more instructed by their injuries to act as a disciple of Christ yet I am not thereby justified.
First Corinthians 44 may I enjoy the wild beasts that are prepared for me and I pray that they may be found eager to rush upon me, which also I will entice to devour me speedily and not deal with me as some whom out of fear.
Not touched but if they be unwilling to a sell me, I will compel them to do so.
So is begging to die.
This is not just like I'm stuck.
I'm a prisoner.
Holy crap.
He's like, like give it to me and I want it the worst.
I want to be in the belly of the beast ground up in their teeth.
Like, it's pretty hardcore.
So I just wanted to highlight that.
Did you want to add anything before we continue hearing what he had to say and then I want to get into some of these super chats because there's so much stuff.
Yeah, they're fetishizing this.
You can see there I mean who thinks think of this the texture of someone's psychology that's in that mind frame what's going on there.
That you can't that's completely alien to any modern Christian that I've ever met.
I've never met somebody that you we would we would call it in.
It was talking like that, you know, that would be, you know, you'd want to call social workers or something.
Yeah, so it's alien to us.
But to them, you got to see it within their, their time, their, their mentality.
They're, they're skipping meals.
They're not, you know, they're, they're, they're, they're even some of them are self flatulating.
They're, they're treating their bodies with they're using their bodies as one scholar.
I studied under a guy that Vincent Limbush who was basically maybe the top scholar in the world in asceticism.
And one of the things he talked about there oftentimes you'd say they're using their own bodies as a battleground.
And this is it was kind of a it's very different in the mentality that we have today in so many areas of Christianity.
You see, you see some austerity and say the Eastern Orthodox and Catholic traditions, but not it's this degree of it though.
You just don't find it.
And so it's very, very rare in the modern world.
So it's often extremely alien, especially to North American, you know, the kind of Christianity that we're used to seeing here where it's very self-adulgent.
I want you to have mansions.
Be a billionaire.
Yeah, yeah, there's Anthony.
There's one text that was talking about this guy that was living out in that hole in the ground out in the Judean desert.
And he would pop up and then go back down in the hole again, almost like things like you.
And so they'd walk by every day and they'd see this guy.
And what was it?
It was funny because in this doctoral seminar, we're talking about, well, why is that?
Well, it's, it's not that they're there.
It's that they want you to see that they're there.
And so it's a whole way of showing yourself and getting attention.
It's a social statement and the cynic philosophers, they were considered the dogs.
These are people that deliberately willfully lived out in the street like dogs and renounced everything.
You know, I'm kind of like Jesus talking about your father cares for the birds.
He's going to care for us.
He's walking around like a vagrant, but, you know, picking people's wheat and stuff like that.
And just kind of going day by day and figuring out and they'd left their careers behind.
And yeah, John, the back is seeing bugs and all this stuff down by the Jordan River.
It's just alien to the modern thought.
And, but in the ancient world, these would have been seen as impressive displays of as cases.
I want to continue because there's something my good friend here, Eric says.
And hopefully someone shares this with him.
If not, I'll share it with him after so he can see our little response here.
The fun part begins here.
So what about belated reports when the first event or first report of a said miracle comes long after the event?
We have some serious reasons to be skeptical.
Examples, the Ascension of Romulus was first reported by Tacitus 800 years after the alleged event.
Okay, skeptics stop throwing Romulus out there.
I think this one came up.
Derek, I love you.
You remember our conversation.
This came up with a conversation with Derek of the MythVision podcast.
He's probably not watching just in case you are.
Don't use Romulus.
Like the first report was Tacitus 800 years after the event.
Like, no, this is a belated report.
Apollonius going back to her buddy Apollonius.
Well, Philostratus was writing 100 years after he was dead.
I want to pause and go ahead and stop there and just want to kind of correct the record because I reached out to you right away.
I already thought, hold on.
This is already factually wrong.
I mean, we're not denying that the Romulus, lore, myth, legend, whatever is like very old and like the writings are much later.
Nobody's denying that.
We kind of like Life's of Alexander the Great that are written much later.
Okay.
And they may be based on stuff that's earlier, but you in your book, talk about Livy.
Livy, Livy.
We even pulled up a few sources here that I figure we can get into one of those just to show our audience is Dionysus of Hallucanarsis.
Dionysus is right here just to show people, you know, BC character here.
All right, this guy's writing in the first century BC.
Tacitus is later.
So factually, you're wrong about that.
Again, we agree.
These are later, but they're based on earlier stuff.
And you get into some of that.
You told me pull up book two here, which is in Dionysus of Hallucanarsis Roman antiquities book two at the very end of it.
Others say that while haranguing the people, he was slain by the new citizens of Rome and they undertook the murder at the time when the rain and the darkness occurred.
The assembly of the people being then dispersed and their chief left without his guard.
And for this reason, they say the day on which this happened.
He's giving a rationalist perspective, really a post Julius Caesar perspective about how and I love that about your book, by the way, you highlight about how Romulus was killed.
But then it goes on to talk about the view of those who make gods of mortal men and place the souls of illustrious persons in heaven for they say that at that time, when his mother was violated, it goes on Romulus pretty much is this God man.
And he's also found in Livy.
After these immortal achievements, which is before Tacitus, Romulus held a review of his army at the Capri Palace.
I don't know, pronounce that right in the campus of Martius a violent thunderstorm suddenly arose and enveloped the king in so dense a cloud.
He was quite invisible to the assembly from that hour Romulus was no longer seen on earth when the fears of the Romans use were laid by the return of bright calm sunshine after such fearful weather.
They saw that the royal seat was vacant whilst they fully believed the assertion of the senators who had been standing close to him that he had been snatched away to heaven by a whirlwind.
Still, like men suddenly bereaved fear and grieve kept them from some for sometimes speechless at length after a few had taken the initiative.
The whole of the the sorry whole of those present held Romulus as a God, the son of a God, the king and father of the city Rome.
They put up supplications for his grace and favor and prayed that he would be propitious.
How do you pronounce that propitious to his children.
Propitious. Yeah.
Yeah, there's two views.
He's torn limb from limb tucked away in the Senate's clothes and you know run away.
But later you have an eyewitness saying, Hey, appeared to me, you know, he says, Hey, go and tell the Romans.
I think I think you're, I don't know who again who this fella is, but I think he's mistaken in terms of his understanding of what what even we're bringing forward.
So Romulus is brought forward as basically an archetype alongside Heracles.
He could say the same thing about Heracles.
Oh, that's a long time ago.
Yeah, I was that that does not diminish anything here in terms of the importance in terms of what we're saying historically that these were used as archetypes or templates for later apotheosis and translation.
And so, yeah, Romulus is early, but that's because he's the guy that's used as a template for all the ones that after that, everything that's early as a rookie.
So that doesn't really change what we're talking about.
Now the ones that are contemporary, like the one we just talked about with Proteus Peregrinus, that was the same.
That was two days later.
The people are coming forward and saying that reporting and this was public knowledge and Lucian is writing maybe a decade later.
What about the Caesars?
While we're on this whole Caesar again, this was all this was all public right out in the in the Coliseum there in the form.
They would bring the during the funeral, they would bring out his body and someone would step forward.
They'd have it.
They basically burn a wax effigy so that they wouldn't have the bones there to be able to, you know, just like Eric Lee.
So there would be a missing.
There wouldn't be any remains and therefore because of what would the remains mean that would be clearly more.
And so, and they would have someone say step forward.
I think this Livia's gammoness was a guy that repeatedly would see that he's talked about in Seneca as having come forward.
He's I think he's on the Roman payroll.
Actually, he would come forward and say give confession that he had seen the raised Caesar out on the Via Appia.
You know, and so he repeated it back when it was Claudius.
Claudius was actually hobbling.
This is after he died.
The resurrected Claudius is walking on the Via Appia, which was their most famous road in the Rome in the in the Italian peninsula.
A lot of people heard of the Via Appia, probably a lot of your viewers.
Well, he was he was the scene walking on there.
And this is again, following along along the lines of, you know, the Julius Proculus legend that goes back to Romulus.
Romulus is setting is the archetype for that kind of story pattern.
And what they're doing is that's the protocol for installing someone into the Hall of Fame into the divine cat.
This isn't this isn't someone that's going down to Hades.
This is somebody that's going to be celebrated and remember and immortalized in the cultural mind of the time as in that was their protocol was to defy them to put them up in in lights forever.
And so it was either that or so that was exalt audio memorial that the memory was going to be exalted.
And that's what that implied was translation or damn audio.
And so some of the emperors were damned and so their statues were defaced and they were told the horrible horrible fate for them.
And they would go down into Hades according to the storytellers and be treated with shame and ignobility.
And so if so, that was a way to compel the ruler to rule well and not be a tyrant because they wanted an exalted kind of memory in the legacy.
And so, yeah.
And so the idea that there's this big gap, I mean, that's the whole thing, right?
These is people that haven't studied these topics that are that are trying to make the I think the argument and this is what I remember of it before I had even gotten into these topics.
The idea was a legend can occur unless there's hundreds of years that have passed.
No, no, no, no, with apotheosis.
The legend is instant because it's it's a protocol.
They know the pattern.
They know what they're supposed to do.
They're supposed to exalt them right then and there.
And so somebody had died that was a great figure, especially if they couldn't recover their remains.
Sometimes that was even deliberate to make sure that they couldn't recover the remains.
And then then and if they were somebody that was going to be signified in that in the highest level, then that legend would be immediate.
And the impression was, hey, this was somebody that's being exalted among the highest of our of the benefactors of the classical Mediterranean world.
And so you have many, many, many, many instances of that.
If you go into my book there, I get upwards to a hundred.
I was just in the Proteus.
One, but this idea, it's kind of like they want to just chew away the argument.
Like it's it's made out of, I don't know, it's a paper tiger or something that or or a leaky dyke.
You know, they just want to put their finger in it.
No, this is a deluge.
This is a storm surge.
There's a lot of evidence here and it's a lot better than even me.
All figures in alphabetical order in your chapter two, you list over a hundred in the Greek Roman world in antiquity and somewhat contemporaneous
Caesars, the whole nine that have like missing body tropes enveloped by a cloud ascended up to heaven.
And in some cases, we talked about this in one of my other episodes, we talked about the pope.
What was it?
It was written in the first century, literally has an empty tune narrative.
And I can't think of it right now.
My head is much more.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I would say Kalihari, because that's.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But Kalihari.
A hundred ways.
But yeah, that's a that's a really insightful.
It's just one more garden variety example, but it's very insightful.
And I know like people get angry at me, Rick, when I bring it up because I'm like, look, I'm not saying that the gospel
authors borrowed from Kalihari or Kalihari borrowed from the Gospels.
I could imagine Christians trying to make the argument of that way because they would want it to be like, no, you guys just copied or, you know, from us.
But it's like the you're talking about if we want to understand how they were thinking about this in a narrative form, get the body to go missing.
And we even took your hypothesis to a next level.
Suppose that the burial is historical.
It's a memory.
Let's just pretend for the sake of argument because you lean in the legendary route.
But let's just go with because you found all the other legends.
I mean, we're going to say they all also had historical memory.
But you look at that and you go, OK, would they have cause in your estimation?
I'm asking you, the guy who's been sifting through this stuff for 20, 30 years, you literally like had to leave your particular faith bubble you had in order to come to these things.
And it really shattered your worldview because you were being fair and open and honest and realizing how can I truly sit here and say this one's true.
And all of this now that I'm a classicist research is this is not this did not happen for them.
But this one happened for my guy.
You were being honest.
And so question is if he really was buried and this is a historical memory just for argument's sake.
Do you think there's good enough reason for the for the disciples to steal his body?
Well, yeah, I think that's a that's a viable high five.
I've even considered writing something on that at some point.
I may still that's the that's the alternative account.
And some of these others had alternative accounts with Romulus, you know, the senator storm in pieces.
Oh, is that what happened?
And they put the parts of his body in the folds of their togas or whatever their their garments their robes.
Is that what happened?
Or did he ascend in with a thunder clap into the clouds and his body was translated to divinity?
Which one was it?
And in Matthew, you get the two accounts as well.
You get the story about that, you know, with the soldiers and all this and that that the disciples had come by night and stolen his body.
OK, and that story doesn't go away.
If you go to to Justin Martyr's writing to Trifo second century, Trifo is a Jewish authority at that time, a major figure.
And he's saying that according to Trifo, he's saying that what the Jewish story is on this.
They're all saying that the body got stolen that this this didn't go away.
It just became a more circulated kind of description.
And in fact, it expands it and says even the Romans are saying the same thing.
And so only the Christians are the ones still peddling the idea, you know, that it was otherwise.
And so everyone else is reflecting on this.
And so when you go to the reception of the story, one of the things I did that was mistaken, I think with my book, I'm willing to confess is I said, you know, resurrection and reception and early Christianity.
The reception was outside of early Christianity, too.
It was the role. How did the Romans receive it?
How did the other Jewish groups receive it?
You know, and so that's also part of the reception of this and so.
But if you go back there and take a look at it, you think, well, OK, why would they have stolen the body?
Well, because they need the bones gone.
And this is then so there's a whole trend.
Actually, I've got a several in my article and in the book as well of individuals who sought to fame translation.
In other words, deliberately dying such a way that their remains couldn't be found so that they could be deified.
Right. And there's a pedigrees is one of those.
Alexander the Great is another one.
And there's a there's a whole list of others as well.
And this would fall into that.
And I would even argue that this whole deal with Proteus Peregrine is throwing himself into the flames during the Olympic Games falls into that.
I think that was a staged event.
I think his disciples, you know, everything.
I think that was all set up a certain way for him to go out with a bang.
And so in this situation, it got you just killed our guy.
They probably had it.
And you've got to realize that we're looking at this.
They were, you know, after the fact of Christianity winning out.
And so the peculiarities of it and the randomness of some of these things.
But his disciples of, you know, in this particular case had an opportunity then by night, a few of them, the top, you know, as close as, you know, sidekicks had a chance to get in there and take the body away and then raise the story of, you know, that's a completely viable hypothesis.
I would say that there's a pretty good chance that that's exactly.
I'm going to throw out something interesting too.
I just thought of this.
I never really tried to think this way.
I'm blaming you for these great thinking ideas for book that needs to be written.
But let's pretend for sake of argument again, because we have no way of knowing with certainty on any of this.
Let's just pretend that part of the Sanhedrin, we have this Joseph of Arimathea figure, and he goes and tries to have this honorable burial.
This guy really is.
And I think this is narrative literature, but this guy really is in there bearing Jesus.
He could have played a significant role in also having him go missing.
So here you have a way in which there's so many hypotheses that could be instead of the actual resurrection being the case, because I say resurrection.
I know Christians go, you're avoiding the obvious Occam's razor.
He rose from the dead.
No.
Look at the hundreds of other miraculous deifications and antiquity with ascension narratives, clouds, dark day, earthquakes, the whole nine like Jesus.
Like we're saying, you don't think those are true.
The authors who say, hey, I'm conveying this like Libby, like some of the Holocaust nurses, they're saying like, these are legends.
These are not this like, we're going to tell you this fable that has said about these guys.
We don't believe this is what happened.
And then they give reason.
But I'm saying maybe he did that.
And the other question I have for you, and this is the burning one, you ready for this one, Rick?
Would they really die for something they know isn't true?
Well, okay.
So I think going back, this goes back to the whole idea of the stasis of martyrdom.
And I think we can, you know, what were the martyrs during the Maccabean revolt dying for?
Truth to power.
What did John the Baptist die for?
Truth to power, right?
Calling out, these were stunts in front of highly powerful people.
And so, and that's what we see is the pattern.
It's not just people dying in obscurity out of nowhere or this kind of thing.
It's people, it's early Christians aggravating, antagonizing in this kind of thing.
But it is interesting if you get to 1 Corinthians 15.
What's the list there?
The 500.
Okay, they're nameless.
Just push them off the table.
That's never repeated again.
Like no one talks about the 500 who saw him.
Like no one, like zero people, 0.00 people are talking about that.
And so, but the rest of his list there are named individuals.
You've got Cephas, you've got a variety of other disciples.
And then finally you've got Paul, right?
And then last of all, he appeared to me as one untimely born or whatever.
Well, who are these people?
These are the cult leaders.
What a coincidence that it's the same people that happened to be at the very top controlling the narrative.
And running the cult that happened to be the same ones that are, in fact, the eyewitnesses for this particular tale.
And so it's, and it would be, and then going back to Matthew, that the disciples came and stole the body.
The disciples in Matthew, that's his close disciples.
That's not just anyone.
That's his inner circle, you know, when you went out and picked the 12 at the beginning of the narrative.
It was those guys.
And so, you know, I assume that Peter, you know, and all the, you know, he was probably right, right at the forefront of that.
And so when he gives his confetti, you know, who do the people say that I am?
You know, you are the Christ, the Messiah, the son of the living God, that is a demigod.
And so he, you know, the patronizing tradition there is to definitely see Jesus exalted in within that paradigmatic structure.
And so, yeah.
And so it's.
In his resurrection book that I read talks about, he goes to a list of scholars with different views and his, he didn't go into your, he doesn't touch everything you just did in this whole episode so far.
But he did say there is a scholar who thought that the disciples would have stolen the body and said he rose and still stuck to their mythic topos because that was the, you can't.
How did John Dominic Crossin said it in a debate years ago against a Muslim?
He said if Mohammed existed in the first century, and he was not a son of God, your guy would have been booed and hushed off stage thrown out by tomatoes.
They would not have given to you know what's about this guy.
If he was not a son of God, because that was the game in the town at the time.
If you weren't a son of God, get your guy out of here.
We want sons of God.
And so the point I'm getting at is like, you don't have this narrative that's fitting in the topos.
It doesn't fit within the broader cultural context of your guy going missing and meeting the Hall of Fame status.
It isn't going to work.
So you need that to be your narrative for to work in the Roman world.
And guess what?
It eventually was successful.
They just kept nailing it down and eventually it's stuck.
Right.
But he thought that they stole it was so that like you said in a way hints at this that they did not want to go back to being fishermen.
If you take that the story in the Gospels that they were really fishermen and they had to labor.
Now you have Tiberius up here ruling this lake and it's no longer the Sea of Galilee but run and being taxed and being controlled.
They're like, dude, we don't want to go back to that hard lifestyle.
People are paying us to come talk to them about our particular cult.
We don't need to work anymore.
We have everything being fed and given to us.
Look at Corinthians.
I mentioned this before I even brought you on.
Paul talks about you feed them and they're married and they have all the stuff and but I'm not asking for money.
Come on, man.
I don't know.
Yeah, I think there is that kind of fraudulence aspect to it, but also there was a sincerity.
They believed in this way.
They believed in their teacher.
They believe in their master.
They believed in the philosophy that he was giving them.
They were his students and it was upsetting.
Can you imagine how this rule would be to have your guru killed and executed by the power structures of the time?
And they they probably looked hard at that.
And this I mean as this was going down and they probably look hard at that and said, you know what?
We've got a chance to steal this guy's body.
Screw you guys.
We're going to take his body.
We're going to say he's better than all of you.
He's exalted better than your entire power structure.
And this is where we're going with this thing.
And that to me, that makes and you want to talk about often brazer that makes a whole heck of a lot more sense.
Right.
That hypothesis.
Now I can't go back there and prove it.
You know, but I can prove.
I think my book does prove that he didn't rise from the debt historically.
That's that's off the table.
So at this point, then we've got to put together an alternate hypothesis.
We're even still interested in the topic, which is, which is to me peculiar because no one's, you know, we're having this discussion right now.
No one's talking about what happened to Apollonius's body.
You know, no one's fussing over that or having to, you know, picking through whatever, coming through whatever little bits of data we can find in order to come.
No one's losing sleep over that.
No one's losing sleep over weather.
You know, if you were to go in the ancient world into the, say the temple of Heracles or whatever and go in there and ask the, the, the cult leader in there, the priest or whatever.
Did, did Heracles really rise from that, that fire ascend to heaven?
Did that really happen?
And he would probably broadly smile and say, of course, my son have a seat.
And there would no, there would be no big historiological kind of puzzle to unpack there.
The idea was to immerse you in the cult and that's what's misconceived right now.
Okay.
So people are going back into this and thinking, oh, they stole his body and it's this big fraud.
No, it's not.
Everyone understood what this meant.
They were exalting him.
He couldn't find his body.
Okay.
Well, that's just like everyone else too that got in my list of 100.
And so they're putting him right in there.
They might be kind of, you know, manufacturing it in a more deliberate or forced way in that sense, if going with some of these hypotheses.
Right.
And then, you know, what they're doing is they're just trying to install him into that.
He'd gone through a very ignoble kind of execution, a brutal execution.
If that's, if that's historically correct at all, you know, and it was undeserved.
I'm sure his disciples didn't think it was deserved.
It's interesting though that he said he said his face like Clint.
So he knew he was going to Jerusalem to die.
He was, he was, he Jesus himself, according to the text was a bit of a stuntman.
Here we are again.
Yeah.
Quick question.
I want to get into these super chats.
I really, really want to try and do that before I let you go.
If that's possible.
Can I, can I get you to hang around for just a moment?
A few more minutes.
Yeah, I've got, I've got you.
Okay.
So the other problem is Derek's got a tinkle.
That's right.
I got to go potty as we say to the kids.
So I need to show your, your book.
You tease people for like a minute while I go use the restroom real quick.
What is the book about?
And why is this, why is this so controversial?
Let's just go with that.
Yeah.
I have a feeling it'll be a very fast tinkle.
Yeah.
So I wrote this, this is back in 2014.
I originally had written in my first paper here in support of this was in
2002.
And so very early, some people get the timeline wrong.
I was actually, I think kind of the original guy with a lot of this, at
least putting it together in this kind of cohesive way.
I gave a paper in Boston at the Society of biblical literature in 2008.
And basically showcased in that paper became kind of the, the, the core
thesis behind the article that I published in JBL in 2010.
So Mark's empty tomb and other translation fables and classical antiquity.
Basically it's me trying to my, my initial kind of shot at unpacking this argument.
It was an honor to publish the article.
I had actually an editor come up during the Boston presentation and asked me,
Hey, can you publish this in JBL?
I found out later that I'm the only grad student that's ever published in JBL.
And so it was a great honor.
I didn't realize at the time that, that, that it, it just showed though that
there was a deep interest in these topics and largely not really well
trodden at all in the past and largely misunderstood and by prior, prior
academic efforts.
And so this book is basically just flushing that out further.
It's unpacking the arguments more deeply.
It's dealing with some of the complexities and how it was received in
earliest Christian texts.
Start the first chapter with dealing with Justin Martyr and how he's having to deal
with this particular topic.
He admits, he goes ahead and admits that Jesus is doing nothing new.
What we did with this narrative and he uses we, he's talking about the entire
Christian writing kind of world, the leaders of the entire Christian movement.
He says, we've done, we've done not, we've presented nothing new than the,
than what you present regarding the sons of Zeus.
And then he untaxed that in terms of the translation, high witness tradition and
the whole thing there.
And that's in 1st Apology 21.
There's so much too that I started learning about Justin and what he's doing,
even in that debate that I was talking about between who copied who,
did Plato copy Moses or Moses copy Plato?
And of course he goes with the typical Josephus and the rest of like,
Apollodorus, the Jewish, educated Jewish elites and stuff that we're saying that
Plato must have copied Moses.
But he is, he's still situated in like, while he's dealing with his Platonist,
he's actually using it kind of like, well, listen, we're not that much different.
Our guy's the guy though, you know, you guys are just missing a little bit.
He's, he's literally co-opting in a way, but just trying to go,
but we really have the one, the right guy, you know, kind of like what you talk about
in your book.
And it's the same thing of saying, look, we believe nothing different from what
you guys are believing here, but our guy is superior.
So he's not denying the superiority of his Jesus, but he is saying,
we're in the same vein.
And so that confession is there.
I just don't know why the denial other than they know what this means in terms
of the overall, if we're approaching us today with criticism, we're cautioned
to not swallow what we see and believe.
And we go, but did these guys actually do that too?
It's the same problem I found with a work done right now by Craig Keener.
I've been hearing through the grapevine.
I haven't read it myself, but the way it sounds is one of the criteria I mentioned
to my buddy Caleb Jackson was just like, Hey, one of these criteria, I see something
that sounds and looks kind of fictitious.
It looks exaggerated.
It looks a little over the top to be what really happened.
He's like, that doesn't, that's not a good standard of criteria.
If you're someone who believes these fictitious sounding things are what happened and, you
know, these miraculous claims that happen all the time, you're going to sit here and
think that what I'm saying is not making sense or it's not true.
But then if you add the layer that like take the angel releasing Paul from prison in acts,
if you take that and you go, that just sounds like an earthquake causing them to like be
freed from this thing, sounds fictitious.
Sounds a bit like a literary trope or something.
They're like, no, no, that's not a good criteria.
But if you find that it's in Euripides Bakai that Dionysus is released from prison and
it like literally by divine help, that gives you an antecedent to fictitious literature.
This is what your book does that I think so good when you find over and over common
elements, themes, literary antecedents, mimesis, if you will, whatever.
And you find that in this literature, why are you favoring this and saying this one
actually literally historically happened and then denying that the others didn't?
You might as well just start saying, listen, demons did those, but ours was done by God.
And even then it's silly sounding, but at least you're trying to be consistent in my opinion.
Yeah, I think part of the challenge is so I consider myself an academic scholar.
I've held to those standards.
People are reading my stuff.
They hold me to standards in the academic world.
I can't just write anything and get away with it.
I had probably 20 people involved in this book.
It wasn't just me off in the corner, like just kind of spitballing, you know, whatever I thought.
I had all sorts of, and so I'm held to peer review standards, heavy peer review standards
with some top people.
When you're an apologist, you're not held to those standards.
In fact, a lot of those guys are going back into the text and just minding them for animal.
They're looking for polemical animal.
They're not there to try and understand what Justin really meant or, you know, an authentic grasp of what was really going on.
They're in the middle of a feud and they're just reaching for whatever kind of animal back behind them they can grab
and put it into the, you know, put it into the chamber and fire it.
And so that's problematic because it's not a genuine effort to really understand and appreciate where these people are coming from
and to see them, you know, works and all, to see the issues and what's really at stake for the early Christians.
That was my effort. I wasn't trying to disprove Christianity.
I'm really not the enemy of the apologist.
They see me that way because it just so happens that my conclusions that I draw are offensive to them,
but I'm not trying to offend them.
That just, that was my research where it landed after looking at all the data took me right to that place.
And I was very concerned to write it correctly to make sure because I know that if I didn't write it correctly,
it would just get torn to pieces in ten years thrown in the waste can.
I don't want this book to be something valuable for the next century or longer.
And so, you know, I was meticulous and I brought to bear on it the right people.
The top classicist at Cambridge University was on my dissertation committee.
You know, and so I had serious, serious people involved with this and that's because I wanted it to be correct.
I wasn't trying to trash a religion or anything like that.
And in my opinion, if the religion got off the ground originally without having this hard historical kind of case,
then it must have had other merits that appeal to people.
Maybe those other merits should be the same merits that are held today by the religion.
Maybe some of that praxis, some of that dedication to love your enemies and treat other people with respect
and humility and some of the other virtues that are brought forward caring for the weak and the outcast and the other.
Maybe those are the actual that's the treasure and the religion got it off the ground to begin with.
And as I go back into the study of the religion, that's exactly what got it off the ground.
Those are the things that made it so compelling.
It wasn't this big historical case with apologists running around, you know,
Trump talking about the 500 who saw him, you know, and just driving that home.
You just don't see it.
And so if you go back and read Justin, it's uncomfortable for modern equality.
They don't even go back there and they only want to read it.
Unless they could find some ammunition in there, but you know, pull out some little excerpt or something.
But actually, I would challenge the apologists that are watching this.
Go back and read Justin and feel the texture of his thought and realize you're in the same tradition you're supposed to be.
But you find yourself in disagreement with him.
He's the early he was born in the first century at the foot of Mount Garazine.
He had a front row seat to all of this stuff.
So you just want to send that's pretty much my take.
Let's go to the super chats here because we're going to be losing Dr. Miller.
In fact, he has he has an appointment with an apotheosis here soon.
And I'm going to make sure I go over and make sure your body's missing.
Don't worry.
We will we will venerate you, my friend.
Constellation Pegasus, can I request you have Ben Stanhope, Josh and Adair on the same show going over the think he means over the flat earth and dome cosmology and Genesis.
I'd happy to touch on that again.
But with Ben with Josh and Adair.
So Aaron Adair is a scientist.
Josh is an ancient Near Eastern scholar.
And he's written a lot on the Bible.
Ben Stanhope's also written a lot on the Bible and has delved into this and taken prods to William Lynn Craig on many issues pertaining to these things.
So yeah, I'd be happy to do that.
I just would need to reach out to the three and I'm sure we could make something happen for sure.
Can you remind me on messenger because I know you're on Facebook message me remind me please because my life is in shambles.
I'm trying to keep it together.
A constellation again says no anyone Derek you can have on showing that mankind is older than 6000 years and cities dated over 6000 years also.
As far as cities go.
I would need to think about who I could have on that would maybe talk about civilization that goes way back but I do have guts at given who's a
PhD is almost in at the moment.
I can have her on we planned on doing a show anyway at some point this year.
So I'm hoping I can get her on constellation again.
Thank you my friend.
Joseph in Ridgeway.
Do you have a creation story that you value.
Do you have a creation story that you value.
That you value.
You know I'm a I'm a big fan of science.
I'm sorry.
I really love I love what's going on with James Webb and so the creation story that we're creating from scientific evidence is the one that excites me the most.
But beyond that though I think some of the demiurgos the tradition that came from play though it gets pulled up a little bit into Christianity with john's prologue there with the logos creating.
But this idea of having a demiurge from the creator that created all things up on the.
You know that's a fascinating topic and so if you like reading platonic philosophy.
And I do.
So that's an interesting.
They're making it an effort at speculating on what happened and trying to put a kind of philosophical wrapper or rigor around it.
And in the plate it's inherited from Plato and so I think that's that's very interesting.
Yeah the to me is the Native American traditions as well I think they're worth looking at.
Thank you so much for that I would just say I'm with you I think it's at the time it was the most rigorous scientific creation account was Plato on the scene.
As far as we could tell you know what he was attempting to do.
And you know I got to go with Genesis.
I mean I understand I'm a critic but like I do.
It's my favorite when it comes to it because I know it so well compared to the others.
I enjoy some of the other myths as well going into Mesopotamia dealing with the enuma elish and other things there's some fun stuff there especially if you immerse yourself in it.
But I'm with you on the Plato thing too because it's the most advanced for its time trying to be scientific.
God's don't lie God's don't have passions like humans this is a cool kind of concept to try and put the gods outside of the human realm where we saw them before.
Thank you so much Joseph.
Apollo's Christian apologetics.
Hey Derek I saw your comment you made on the hoas life channel.
I don't know him but Sean McDowell showed he's deaf got a future in this field if he chooses.
I think so I actually text him earlier because I have his communication there.
He interviewed Robin Faith Walsh Rick and he actually did a good job having conversation and trying to dig and get her thoughts on things.
But I think he's young is like 15 years old and sharp very sharp.
I hope he continues in research is I told him on the phone one time I said listen the more if you're like a believer on the side that you really believe.
The more you dive into this if you're doing it from a historical critical approach the less your confidence is going to be in that whole.
This is what actually happened is true and it becomes harder to really say what you can know happened or didn't happen because it's hidden behind theology and legend and.
It's literature how do you know what happened you know so that was my little advice kind of saying like here you are your little genius he's super smart 15 year old so.
It's true it's true I think one thing that's a kind of a false equivalency you know they have their scholars we have our scholars that whole thing.
What I've seen is I haven't seen atheists get into like a study of Christian origins and get converted to Christianity.
I haven't seen that there's might be one out there somewhere.
I don't know who they are.
It's just not a thing really the more you study it the more you become convinced you know this kind of thing.
But I've seen countless people that have gone the other direction they get into Christian origins and then they will they will OK wow I didn't expect.
I'm OK I'm one of those.
And it's just has a tendency to disabuse you of all that gives you a much richer understanding of just the human experience and why humans even create sacred stories.
And what when we're up what we're up to as a species.
And so it is a very enriching.
It's not just all lost so I lost my faith.
I lost my faith.
Yeah but I gained so much more about what it means to be a human being and to be part of that.
And so I hope the best for Sean McDowell.
That's exciting to see especially given his legacy there and where he's coming from with his family.
And so hopefully he everyone's on their journey right.
I love the way you've worded that.
It wasn't from the outside.
We look just so bad to the to the apologists to the one that's really like a fundamentalist worse.
We look so bad and we're doomed and hell it's really an ugly bubble that they live in because I lived in it and I know you live in it.
Me and you've talked about this.
We endlessly but the world has broadened the walls and like boundaries between our tribe and their tribes.
Kind of things like have broken down for me significantly.
We have that natural inclination of tribalism there because it's just what we are as primates.
But I'm saying though the world is bigger.
I could go to India and value a Hindu temple and be respectful of the people's traditions and not even think those are demons.
Satan's here and they're worse or whatever be mocking and scoffing just like I do with Christianity.
But I also see it in the same vein as all the other religions.
It's a human thing.
So love the way you put that.
Thank you, Apollos for the super chat, my friend.
What's your take on Sophia and the God man?
You ever thought?
I don't.
I don't understand the question.
It sounds like a Gnostic thing.
So I honestly don't have an opinion specifically on it and I don't really know where to go with it.
Joseph.
Yeah, I remember some of that from my Gnostic studies and Sophia and kind of the personification of wisdom.
Right.
I mean, let me put it this way.
Someone who you can put labels on me, whatever.
I don't live my life looking at everything is like Adam is bouncing off each other is a purely scientific lab kind of thing.
I live in experience, all in wonder and mystery and narrative.
We construct meaning along the way.
I get it.
I love fiction.
I love the stories we make and construct because life is like that.
And so Sophia being this thing of wisdom, when I find a moment in a song or a word of wisdom to someone who's struggling and they needed to hear something.
I don't know.
I'm interpreting the super chat this way because I just figure as someone who's a skeptic, you know, you get like us first them kind of mentalities.
And I tend to just say, I can speak the language.
Christians will talk about it and say, you know, I'm praying for you.
My mom will say, Derek, I'm praying for you and Jesus loves you.
I know what my mom means.
Okay.
I know what she means, even though I don't in any way connect those dots.
She's pretty much saying, I care for you.
I love for you and I want the best for you.
That's how I interpret it.
I take this as her saying that's her mythic cult kind of perspective of saying, I love you and I want what's good for you.
Someone else might say something else like inshallah through the Muslim tradition and they mean well for me or something.
Respect.
I don't have this weird, like I cannot believe you said Jesus's name.
How dare you?
I'm an atheist.
Don't you know this?
Like, you know, those kind of things.
So Sophia and the God, man, I could find myself thinking like a Gnostic.
You watch the matrix, for example, and get lost in the mythos of the matrix series.
Am I running off from the super chat here?
Probably.
But I'm just saying.
I saw something interesting.
Lex Friedman did a podcast with a guy talking about how come homo sapiens like outdid the Neanderthals.
And the going hypothesis by the guy on the stream was humans as homo sapiens that we are.
We are the only primates that can construct in a group bigger than 50 based on a narrative.
What made us beat them in the rest of the world in terms of conquering the planet that we live on is we have formulated a group cohesive around a story.
It can be made up.
It can be true.
It does not matter.
The story made us come together and we conquered.
Whereas Neanderthals.
Hey, Derek, I must drop my friend.
You got a head?
Yeah, I do.
I do.
Yeah.
She whom I must obey has full.
I do not blame you.
Okay.
I do not blame you.
I love you, man.
Hey, hit me up.
Love you too, brother.
Take care.
All right, brother.
Peace.
Take care.
I think I went on a rant there, ladies and gentlemen, but you get my point, right?
We tell ourselves stories all the time.
The foundation of this nation, America has its own mythos.
And you could say nationalism and patriotism play a significant cultic practice within the narrative structure that we have in America.
American.
I see that even in me.
I have certain patriotic tendencies.
My father was green brain, the special forces, and I was raised in the military household.
So I have these natural inclinations to be a certain way.
And I don't fault myself for it, but it's how I was raised.
So I don't know why I ran with that with Sophia, but I think of Sophia is like it could be interpreted in many ways of something wise in your life.
Whatever practice you come from.
So the God man, I don't know why I thought of Frederick Nietzsche when you thought when you said that I was thinking of Nietzsche's perfect man.
But anyway, moving forward, constellation Pegasus, thank you so much again for the love and support.
Isn't the zodiac in the Hellenistic era synagogues going against the second commandment?
Interesting.
Any idea when the zodiacs were put in them?
That is a great question.
I don't think a zodiac in and of itself would fit the don't.
Don't do this, don't have graven images kind of thing or any other gods or idols or anything like that.
I don't think that.
But if you look at some of those zodiacs, there are faces of Helios in the center of those jokers.
I saw them on the ground when I went over there to Palestine.
I saw the iconography and the names of God fears and the Jewish people.
There's like even Hebrew and Greek inscriptions there, but there's a zodiac images of animals.
So the images of the animals aren't deities.
They're not gods, but they are living creatures.
So I don't know if that would go against it, but I can't imagine all Jews thought the same way in this period,
especially diaspora out there in the Hellenistic world away from central Jerusalem, the hub.
I can't imagine that they would all condemn such things, but you see these zodiacs right there even near Jerusalem,
especially up in the Galilee.
You can go to the neighboring town next to where Nazareth is located.
They're in Sephiroth.
They have one.
We saw it on the floor with James Tabor on his tour.
So it's a good question to ask.
I don't know the question is either or, but I would ask someone who might be,
I would need to ask someone who would be more aware of Judaism at the time and how they saw zodiacs.
I personally don't know.
It's a great question.
Thank you.
It's just me to pora.
Thank you for the super chat.
Does not Jesus fit into the idea of the Hellenistic Stoic Seneca Sage that Aurelius, Seneca and Epictetus talk about?
Several scholars think so.
Even Richard Miller pointed out like you see kind of the theme of him like living day to day,
similar to some of these famous greats of the Senex and Stoics day to day.
Don't worry about tomorrow.
Who cares about yesterday?
We eat as we go.
We'll pick food or we find it.
Some of the sayings look very philosophical in that vein.
I think so.
Now, does that mean Jesus really did walk in those footsteps like that?
Maybe.
Does that mean that they constructed a Jesus character to look the way that is modeled by the greats of philosophy?
Probably.
Who knows, right?
This is the problem.
I'm figuring out what did and didn't happen.
But I think there's good reasons to think what you're saying is in the right alley.
So thank you for that.
Okay, John Geer.
Good to see you, man.
185 viewers and only 63 likes.
Smash that like button to help MythVision podcast.
Let's get the algorithm gods paying attention to us.
John, thanks for that help, man.
It's been a while since I've been alive and since I've seen you.
So I really appreciate the support.
Big time.
Thanks for everybody who likes this stuff.
Comments down below.
Even after the stream, share this stuff out there.
Get some attention going.
It really helps.
It's a free way of helping.
There are other ways, of course, if you ever wanted to help that you can do so.
But John, you're the man.
You've been around OG from day one.
Love you, man.
Hidden gnosis in the house.
How is your YouTube going, man?
Thank you so much for that big super chat.
The biblical narratives are claimed to be in the genre of a history biography.
When I compare them to Herodotus, Livy, and Josephus, they don't seem to be so.
I feel like the more are similar to Ovid's metamorphosis,
clarify the genre they belong.
Oh, this is a Rick Miller question.
He and thank you for this massive super chat, but I have done some interviews with him.
And I plan on doing more documentaries, the kind of documentary deep dives that I've been doing.
Hopefully down the road, me and Dr. Miller will put some of these together.
But he actually has taken.
Let me pull up for you here.
All right, here we go.
DebunkingChristianity.com, how the Gospels became history, a review by Dr. Richard C. Miller.
This was, let me put this up on the screen for everybody to see in case you want to actually get a deep dive of what he thinks.
It's super, super heavy.
You can go to this link and putting it in the chat right now for everybody.
Putting it in the chat.
But go and you're going to want to read this.
The reason why is these are two greats in terms of scholarship.
And Littwa, Dr. Littwa, David, David Littwa, for those who don't know, has written a book called how the Gospels became history.
And in this critique, Miller actually tries to pitch it in a way of showing, look, these aren't normal biographies.
These aren't your typical run of the mill biography you might find in Plutarch and other places.
You might see elements of that, but he also is working off other scholarship to make his point.
Let me pull that up and zoom in here.
You can download it, by the way.
That link I just sent, go there, download this.
It was written a while back in the Journal of Higher Criticism that Robert and Price actually host.
I think it's from there.
That's a whole other story, but, you know, he, all the debacle that happened happened much later.
So you go download this and you can actually see, but both guys think that the Gospels are full and loaded of mythology, loaded with legend and mythology.
What Littwa thinks is that the authors are trying to say their writing histories of what happened in biographies and such.
So in a way, they're kind of duping the audience to make them think that they're writing this.
I could be mistaken.
It's been a while since I read what Littwa said there.
But I know that Dr. Miller goes in and says, no, no, no.
This is cultic literature.
This is meant for those in the cult, in the group, and it's not histories, biographies in that respect.
They're, they're literally writing to believers so that they believe and continue to believe.
So genre, I don't know if there's like a one kind of genre.
There's a blend of categories that you find in the Gospels.
And that's that, that link.
I promise you hidden gnosis.
It's not a long read.
Go read that and email me, message me or add me on social media, message me on messenger when I have a chance to hear what you think about it.
Check it out.
If you haven't read how the Gospels became history, it's interesting because what Miller thought was that it's a great title.
Because eventually the Gospels be understood as histories.
But they weren't initially.
That's his point.
And so one thinks they're not histories to begin with.
Richard C. Miller, Littwa thinks that maybe they're coining them off, but they're loaded with fantastic material that isn't history.
But they're sprinkling in things, maybe trying to convince you or the reader that they are.
Maybe butchering some of this.
So go read it for yourself, please.
I wish he was still on here to give his own two cents.
But because he has it's his work.
It's what he publishes on so he would know better than me.
Maybe I can write him and have him give his two cents.
I don't know.
Constellation.
Again, another request.
I'd like to see Josh give us some source material on the dating of Noah's flood to the population of the Sargonic Empire and show how the math does not work.
Trying to reread this on the dating of Noah's flood to the population of the Sargonic Empire.
I don't.
I can't imagine Josh would even think Sargon who's like second millennium BCE, Noah's flood.
I'm having a hard time understanding this.
Maybe you're saying exactly what I'm saying that Sargon's way earlier than when Noah's flood narrative even shows up.
Unless you're saying taking the genealogies in the Bible trying to trace back to when Noah would have existed.
I don't know.
But as far as the narrative itself is way later.
Some scholars want to give it a Syrian Empire.
Most will say post Babylonian exile.
And then some might even flirt with the Persian Empire.
I saw that we had Kip Davis in the chat.
He flirts with this.
He's even.
This is what I love about Kip Davis, too.
He has ideas.
He's a scholar.
He learns and he comes up with things, but he's actually willing and open minded to flirt with the ideas of Hellenistic period for some of the narratives.
There are some good reasons to think some of this stuff source material may come from much earlier, but that composition of things.
I tend to think there might be something going on in the Hellenistic period myself.
But I want to put words in Kip's mouth, either.
If you can remind me constellation on Messenger, this as well, along with your recommendation of having been Stan Hope, Aaron and Darren, Josh on for the Flat Earth stuff.
Please do.
Thank you for the super chat.
I really appreciate the support.
Studio.
Dr. Miller was just a martyr, a Hino theist.
Thanks.
By definition.
So I almost want to pull it up for our audience.
Let me pull this up here.
Definition.
So Hino theism Greek.
One God is a term coined by Max Mueller to mean devotion to a single primary God while accepting the existence or possible existence of other deities.
I imagine he would be.
And even the category of angels and daemons having these supernatural figures could fit that category.
But an ultimate primary singular deity, of course, without a doubt.
So it's one of those I've even had scholars who think that they disagree over the definition of exactly what Hino theism and polytheism.
Where that line is drawn because even in polytheistic systems, you might have a primary deity like Marduk.
But there's several other deities that are significant in the pantheon.
And so fuzzy gray line.
But as far as staunch monotheism, like that definition changed and like people started to have those ideas as time went by.
You could say Muslims fit that category of like a staunch monotheism.
But even they have, you know, genies and strange figures that fall in different categories other than human and God.
Sorry, I read rabbit road off there.
I wish you was still up here to answer your question.
I apologize.
It's just me to pour thoughts Judaism and or Hellenistic Judaism.
Just after Alexander is the precursor to what would morph into the sex and offshoots of Judaism and Christianity Judaism Christianity are Hellenistic.
I 100% you go look at the elephant team papyri.
Go see what they were doing down in Elephantine and how they wrote to Jerusalem in Judea.
And they asked for help to rebuild their temple in the fourth century BCE.
They worship several deities.
Ultimately, their primary was yeah.
And they had other gods in this temple.
And Jerusalem did not say no, we will not send you funds because you have a different temple than we do, which is a Deuteronomy law.
So you have to ask yourself, was Jerusalem practicing the law and Deuteronomy?
Was that even a law that was known in Jerusalem in the fourth century BCE?
I know it sounds radical.
This is what some of the guys like Russell Comerican, Philip Vajambam, you know, some of the more minimalist Thomas L Thompson stuff like that say, but I personally do think what we see as Judaism, Hellenistic variations of that
Hellenistic with more radical sectarian groups to full on Zeus is Yahweh, that kind of thing.
I think that that's Hellenism onward.
Alexander the Great onward.
And archaeology is showing that with Jonathan Adler's work.
He's saying the biblical Judaism that we see practiced, there is no evidence before the third century.
I think it was BCE of this being practiced.
I might have said second, but we can't show any hard evidence of it being practiced before that time period.
Now, I know absence of evidence isn't necessarily proof, but there's good reasons to think that we're on the right track with pinning that beginning of actual biblical Judaism.
Before that, you have several gods and elephantine.
Jerusalem's giving these guys a thumbs up and sending them money to rebuild their temple down there.
What the heck is going on?
One can try to come up with any way to get out of it.
Well, they were disobeying the commandment in Jerusalem at that time, and so they shouldn't have send the money in support.
They shouldn't have helped them because they had several deities.
They were already breaking several of the biblical laws and things like that.
You can come up with anything, I guess, but all roads are leading to Rome.
1.4 gigahertz Mac.
Please remove all carrier courses from Patreon.
Ehrman, Kip, Knostic Format have said he's a liar, unqualified, should not be taken seriously, promote good scholarship, call out bad scholars.
Please remove carrier courses from Patreon.
I have several interviews that I've done with Richard Carrier.
Shoot, I have interviews with Bob Price, and I will not have them on my channel anymore.
And there's a recent debacle that happened.
I'm not even going to get into about this.
The guy is 100% closed off to reason on these things, but I'm not taking down those interviews.
So, you know, I have them in the past.
As far as I'm concerned, they are history.
You can go back and see them, but that's the best we got.
As far as the whole debacle that's going on, you know, I disagree with Carrier on several things, especially Jesus' mythicism.
I am not a Jesus' mythicist, but I'm not interested in going out of my way and removing stuff like that.
I understand that you don't agree with him.
You think he's wrong on this, and I think he's wrong on mythicism.
But, yeah, I'm not going to go down that path of trying to block him, cancel him, like all that stuff.
No, I do appreciate the super chat, and I think we are promoting good scholarship on myth fiction.
So, thanks. Appreciate it.
Justin Beaver, would you agree that religion and nationalism were one and the same in the ancient world?
I can't say always because I imagine what we call religion manifested differently in different ways.
But if you go back to Mesopotamia, Sumerian, you know, where it starts in Sumer and Egypt, it does look very nationalistic in the sense that the original mythos that they have that are being put on these clay tablets,
you go back really, really far and you find adapamiths and stuff.
They're all about a king, kingship, and how they brought from chaos, like kind of the thing we see, the demythologized form of Genesis.
From chaos, these kings bring order, laws, and civilization and stuff.
And so the gods and the king are like one and the same.
And so there is no division between like politics and religion and these kind of things. They're all blended in to the mythos.
There's a really wonderful interview by Digital Hammurabi with Joshua Bowen.
Megan Lewis is the one who's interviewing Seth L. Sanders.
And Seth, Dr. Sanders, who wrote a book called Adapata Enoch and then something else, the book title goes.
But he says what's really interesting is that later on when kingship is gone, like Persian rulers are knocked out, there's none of that happening.
The Jews who are actually adopting some of this myth, and he thinks in the Persian era, that they become the kings.
They are the priests. They are the ones who adopt that position that real national kings of nations had.
It's a very interesting thing to think about.
But I imagine before writing these civilizations, some form of what we think of as religion probably existed, probably in tribalistic smaller packs instead of national ones.
But there was some form of it, guarantee you would probably some alpha figure.
They were probably very patriarchal, I imagine.
Just like we look at primates in nature.
And that's my kind of perception as I've been looking into it.
A lot of it is animalistic and polytheistic and they call it animism and some forms of this.
So I don't know.
I'd love to dive deeper into really prehistory beliefs and practices and how that worked.
But it all fascinates me.
Thank you for the super chat.
I hope that answers your question, but we're still doing it today in politics and everything.
It's so us versus them.
Daniel Whitaker, thank you for being a member for so long, 12 months, like the stream.
Thank you, Daniel. I really appreciate the love and support.
I'm popping back over here because I went into the stard, which is on stream yard.
It helps you now. I can find your super chats and not have to dig and worry about did I miss anything?
And I'm just scrolling up to see if I missed anything important.
If everybody's being good, behaving with your best behavior in the chat.
Okay.
Sudio, you're welcome.
You're welcome, my friend. Thank you for the support.
Appreciate the super chat.
I'm scrolling through here.
Well, Mark, Mark, you bring up something interesting.
The solution reduce it to mythology.
Expose the truth.
So for me, if your interpretation models literal, then yeah, it's going to blow your mind when you realize that you've been duped.
And that's what it did to me.
What's happened to me over time.
I had a chip on my shoulder and maybe still do in some ways.
I mean, let's be honest.
I'm sure we all have our bias and have critiques and issues with what we think are harmful or even bad ideas.
But ultimately, it's kind of like I'm fitting this category of genre.
I'm starting to look at the Hebrew Bible.
I'm not kidding when I say this.
We just talked about nationalistic ways.
The way Homer impacted the Greek world and how Homer's literature, the Odyssey, the Iliad, sprinkles a verisimilitude with what the classes is called realism.
Real people, real places, real things, real regions and lands and seas and all of this stuff.
There's some realism there, but it's extremely fictional.
It's narrative.
It didn't literally happen in several ways.
We found what we think is Troy, but did the wars described and detailed in there happen the way that they've been accounted?
Probably not.
I mean, in one account, Heracles goes after and destroys Troy.
My point is I see a lot of similarities between Homer's Iliad, the Odyssey and things like that and what I'm seeing in the biblical literature as well.
You could also find ancient Near Eastern stuff like this.
But once you start reducing it to that, you can actually appreciate and value literature, chew the good stuff, spit out the old, see what's dated.
Ah, you know what?
They had actual indentured servitude.
They had actual slaves owned for life, sex slavery, this kind of stuff.
We should stop that.
This is no good.
This is a dated idea.
This is just no good.
But that was ubiquitous in many ways in the world.
The Greeks did this as well.
The Romans did this as well.
My point is you start to, you know, get outside of that and realize it's just ancient literature and it doesn't have that effect on you anymore.
But I value it.
I enjoy it.
I like to learn from it.
My thoughts.
So some people probably will always have a chip because there's so much trauma that's happened to them in the faith or in their particular group for me.
I think most of the trauma that happened to me was internal due to the psychology of Paul and hating the flesh and not being able to live life without hating it or thinking I should.
If you love this life, you're going to lose it to come.
And if you hate this life, you know, you're on the right path because you need to store your treasures in heaven.
Don't worry about the things of the earth, that kind of stuff.
And I struggled.
My whole Christian, you know, I try to take it for real serious.
And when you do that, you end up in a bad spot.
When you start figuring out what you've been believing doesn't seem like it is the truth.
There's several truths and you start going, holy smokes, lots of claims out there.
Why do I think this one?
And then you find contradictions and problems amongst the literature.
Things don't add up.
Something isn't clicking.
Why am I going to be dishonest with myself and believe in something that not only doesn't seem to add up and make the most sense, but also is like not working in my life.
Anyway, rambling.
Thank you so much.
Appreciate that.
Seriously, appreciate that.
Scrolling up here.
Constellation.
Man, you're dropping bombs on me here.
I really appreciate the love.
Another request.
Some people argue that Lilith is not mentioned at all in the Hebrew Bible.
It's due to that language being so ancient.
There's debate if she's in there.
I'd like to see an episode about that.
I don't think Lilith appears in the Bible, in the canon that we are looking at, but it is like absolutely in the lore, Jewish lore that Lilith shows up.
But back to Seth El Sanders, a dappa to Enoch, he highlights that Lilith is actually the Jewish kind of 2.0 of an earlier demon god.
Not a demon goddess, but a demon god, I believe it was.
It might have been a goddess.
Let me pull up the statue.
I think I have it in my Enoch video, actually.
If you haven't watched that Enoch documentary that I made,
you really, really should, because I actually cover this and show you the visuals and everything from Seth El Sanders.
Let me pull up.
It is in my Origins of the Bible series.
Bear with me one second.
All right, I'm going to share my screen.
Let's check this out together.
Heavenly Revealer.
Both groups.
Let me scroll up here.
Bear with me.
It's explaining the divine revealed secret.
Scrolling up.
Scrolling up.
We've got to find this, everybody.
We're going to do it together.
This is the Enoch documentary.
While this plays, I'm going to ask you.
In the midst of this rich jumble, one figure emerges as a hero in the face of Lamash Tu's malevolence, Adapa.
Revered in their tradition, Adapa possessed the rare ability to ward off the menacing demon.
Illustrated in a remarkable plaque during the ninth and seventh centuries BC.
We witnessed the sage Adapa adorned in an entire reminiscent of a fish, valiantly protecting patients or expectant mothers from the demon's harm.
Delving into the complex depths of ancient Mesopotamian lore unveils a world where scribes rose to prominence, demonic forces loomed and heroes arose to confront them.
It is a testament to the intricacies of historical narratives where the interplay of power, mythology and cultural belief shaped the collective consciousness of civilizations.
But still luring in the air is the intriguing question at hand revolves around the interactions between Judean scribes and Mesopotamian traditions, particularly considering the striking resemblances between the narratives of Adapa and Enoch.
Both figures emerge as a celestial messengers, helling from primordial times, and both become personified by scribes.
Despite the lack of extensive verbal overlap between the two, scholars have noted profound structural parallels prompting further exploration into the potential connection between Enoch and the earlier Adapa myth.
It is noteworthy that both Mesopotamian and Judean societies underwent similar transformations, including the loss of native kingship and the conquest by the Persians and Alexander the Great.
In both contexts, scribal cultures experienced comparable changes.
Professor Jonathan Ben Dove has drawn attention to the remarkable similarities of astronomical knowledge present in Enoch and the astronomical knowledge associated with Adapa in Mesopotamian literature.
These conceptual affinities, though distinct, beg the question of how they can be connected.
During the Lake Persian period, the same individuals held positions of power in both institutions, namely those who controlled the temples and education.
Okay, so let me show you what I found here. It is Lamoshtu. The Lamoshtu demon in ancient Sumerian or ancient Sumer and Akkadian and stuff.
Let me share the screen and show you what this demon looks like. And I think it's this one. Yes, it is. Here we go.
This is the demon that you can go ahead and say evolves later in Jewish lore into Lilith. And of course they construct a narrative.
According to what I was reading from Seth El Sanders, if you see this person laying on this table right here, let me try and stretch this out.
This person laying on the table with the little fish gods, whatever. Down below, I think this is the demon Lamoshtu, but it's really this demon that comes after women who are giving birth.
So newborn children. It's almost like today when children die of SIDS, where they're like, how did they die? What happened to them?
Mothers giving birth, they would pray that this is like an amulet, actually. I think some ancient amulet to ward off Lamoshtu from killing the newborn child.
And this is just one of those kind of interesting artifacts that we discovered with these deities and ancient inscriptions on them.
But I think it's Lamoshtu. I would not bet my life on it, but in this video, which we don't have time to rewatch, the origin of Enoch will blow your mind, which almost has a million views.
It's the number one video on my channel right now. I actually cover this and go into it. And this is, my recollection, is the image here of the Lilith demon.
And it's always about like little children. So it goes after kids according to that lore.
There you have it. Constellation.
But as far as going into the Hebrew Bible and like showing where the literature is about Lilith, I know there are rabbis who talk about it later, but there should be, and I cannot remember where that is.
I could Google that real quick, actually.
Google should have answers.
So the Bible mentions the Lilith only once as a dweller in the waste places, Isaiah 34 or 14, but the characterization of Lilith or the lily in the singular or plural as a seducer or slayer of children has a long prehistory and ancient Babylonian religion, which I showed you the image to that.
And that's what scholar Cephel Sanders and I imagine others in that, you know, in the ancient Near Eastern studies and understanding that culture would probably connect her to that.
She began as a female demon common to many Middle Eastern cultures appearing in the book of Isaiah, Babylonian Talmud.
So later Jewish rabbis and incantation bowls from ancient Iraq and Iran.
She's described as threatening the sexual and reproductive aspects of life, especially childbirth.
A medieval Jewish text called the alphabet of Ben-Sira describes her as Adam's first wife who betrayed him and God and asserted her equality to Adam.
I heard a story that Adam wanted to be on top in the, you know, but she wasn't having it.
She wanted to be on top.
And once you disobey your husband, you know, I'm just saying this is patriarchal system, of course.
And so this is how they play the game.
But says her equality to Adam giving a legendary origin to her demonic behavior.
She also appears in Kabbalah as an evil reflection of a feminine aspect of God along with Samuel.
Interesting.
Samuel comes up by the witch of indoor in one of the Old Testament narratives could be summoned up.
Jewish feminists seizing upon her assertion of equality have reclaimed Lilith as a symbol of autonomy, independence and sexual liberation.
So it's kind of like Satanist.
You know how Satanists are Satanist and you go, but do you believe actual Satan?
No.
There may be some fundamentalist Satanist Satanist believers or whatever out there.
Most of them see her see Satan like these feminist Jewish, this is Jewish feminist seizing upon her assertion.
So they would see as a symbol of autonomy, independence and sexual liberation.
The same way they see Satan is fighting against the tyrannical ruling of the deity Yahweh or El.
And so they end up in this kind of group together standing against opposing the dictator called God.
That's how a lot of Satanists kind of view it.
Until the late 20th century, the demon Lilith, Adam's first wife, had a fearsome reputation as a kidnapper and murderer of children and seducer of men.
Only with the advent of feminist movement in the 1960s did she acquire her present high status as the model for independent women.
The feminist theologian Judith Plaskow's modern midrash on the story of Lilith played a key role in transforming Lilith from a demon to a role model.
So it goes Lilith in Middle Eastern literature.
And this should show you the article.
I'm over here reading it and I thought it was up on the screen.
So this is what I'm reading.
I'll put it in there in case you want to check it out in the chat.
Yeah, Lilith in the Babylonian Talmud, the alphabet of Ben-Sira, Lilith in Kabbalah, the feminist Lilith, and then bibliography.
So there's sources you can go check if you're interested in following further.
Lesson plan, Lilith evolved writing midrash.
Interesting.
But yeah, I could imagine she's been demonized and, you know, I imagine men probably would throw that word around.
Oh, you Lilith.
I don't know.
I've never read it, but it would not shock me if she became the curse word, if she became the derogatory slander toward women who just aren't taking your crap.
So how many husbands do you think in history through Lilith as the word at their wife?
I bet you a lot.
I bet you a lot.
Anyway, fun, fun, interesting rabbit, rabbit trail there.
You see what happens?
I get lost and want to dive in and check this stuff out.
So you should see my notes that I'm doing for these for these documentaries.
I'm going to tease you here.
I mean, I'm going, there is no video I can brag about this because I'm serious.
I look through the Internet, YouTube to find stuff like what I'm doing and nobody's doing this, what I'm doing here.
Looking in the Greek world for those connections to not just New Testament stuff, the way that we're doing that, but in the Hebrew Bible.
Constructing the Hebrew Bible using Homer's Iliad, Odyssey, Herodotus.
You know, you might have some Athenian tragedy type poetry, Plato, like all of this.
So my next video is on Plato, but the one after that is going to be on Jacob, Israel.
And here's a little tease just to let y'all see.
We got all sorts of diagrams here comparing parallels between Jacob Heracles, Jacob King David, Jacob Israel and Ecclesius and Proteus.
Like there's going to be some really, really good stuff that I've been doing.
I really don't want to give you too much because I'm so excited and the hard work that I've been putting into diving in and then sifting it and making it something that's digestible because a lot of this stuff.
I'm reading is just holy smokes, hard to chew and very deep, especially for me because I've never read just straight out read Homer's Odyssey or the Iliad.
I've never read the Argonautica.
I've never read Jason and the Argonauts.
I've heard things about them.
I've heard from scholars like Dennis McDonald and other classicists about these Greek narratives, but I'm depending on their knowledge of it.
And then when I start to read and then they're taking you to the source and you're reading it and you're comparing it, it's kind of mind blowing how much commonality between these sources are there.
Now, take all of that that I just said about there's commonality between the Bible, Hebrew Bible and Homer's Iliad and Odyssey and then go to these ancient voices like Aristobulus and other Greek writers, Roman authors, Christian authors, pagan authors as we like to call them.
People were in the school of Plato or Pythagoras or whatever.
And they all agreed that these authors, Plato, these philosophers, Plato and Moses are talking like they think that Plato is copying Moses.
And then you have Aristobulus who thinks that there must have been at some point.
This is rationalization. There must have been a Greek version or something of the Hebrew Bible for Homer.
This is Aristobulus 151 60 somewhere around their BCE.
He's a Jewish intellectual.
And he says, like Homer has too much in common with the Hebrew Bible, like he had to have had a Greek translation and some scholars to this day, try to posit that the Greek world and their teachings and ideas somehow mingled with the Bible authors.
They just don't know when and where so they hypothesize Russell, American and others say, we know when and we have good reasons where Hellenism, the Greeks conquered the world.
So it wasn't that they, the Greeks borrowed from the Bible, it was that the Bible is being inspired by the Greek writings of the world.
And I'll leave you with one little question that I have. Does the Bible source its mythical antecedents?
Not that I'm aware of it all. Like take the scholarship that shows in the ancient Near Eastern literature, you have the Gilgamesh Epic Tablet 11, which Dr. Joshua Bowen and other ancient Near Eastern scholars have showed.
Noah releases the three birds. This element is so clearly something that is lifted intertextuality.
There's something going on between the biblical author's knowledge of the Gilgamesh Epic Tablet 11, where he releases the birds.
Utnapishtim does. And he's releasing the birds, three birds. That is in the Bible. The Bible does not ever say, hey, we got this from, you know, this Gilgamesh Tablet.
The scholars are pretty much unanimous on this is influencing. There's something going on and they're being influenced, but they don't credit them.
The Greeks credit where they learn their stuff. In fact, you might think of it as like, oh, but they're going to give away their secret that they learned it from the Phoenicians or they learned it from the Egyptians.
To them, it was a badge of honor to say, here's how much knowledge I've acquired from all of these civilizations in the world.
But we just were really making them one cohesive, wise philosophy that we're learning from all these places.
And guess what, Plato never credits Moses, never credits the Jews, doesn't even mention them, doesn't know of them, Herodotus never mentions them.
None of the Greek authors ever mentioned these people and their book and their stuff.
So I'm like, so are we supposed to believe that Plato and all these guys took these ideas and never mentioned that they got them from them?
But they are so like upfront about mentioning they got all this stuff from all these places.
And we're supposed to believe that the Greeks borrowed from the people that don't source their stuff and they don't source it.
This sounds confusing. I'm probably confusing some of you, but the point is Greeks were happy to say, I got this from Bob.
The Bible authors never tell you they got it, but it takes critical scholarship sifting through the material to see the antecedents.
The Bible won't tell you. You have to find those clues and scholars have found those clues like Gilgamesh Epic, Tablet 11.
So I'm saying if the Bible doesn't tell who they kissed, but the Greeks always say who they kissed, I'm just saying they would have said something.
Greeks would have said something. They would have had no shame in saying it, but we don't see it. It's completely absent.
Huge question mark and mystery. And I'm trying to dive in and it show that I think that the Bible authors, the Hebrew Bible, not just the New Testament is being influenced by Greek literature in many ways.
So if you don't believe me, go read Bruce Loudon, who wrote a book called Homer, The Homeric Epics and the Near East.
Let me pop this up. Homer's Odyssey in the Near East, Bruce Loudon. He passed away a few years ago. I highly recommend that.
And Argonauts of the Desert. Structural analysis of the Hebrew Bible by Philip Vajenbaum.
And this is really persuasive to me. There's a lot going on here.
It's building up in the documentary series. I guess we'll continue to unravel that.
Oh, snap. We got Shannon Q up in the hissy. What's up? Hope you're doing well, Shannon. Good to see you here.
Oh, we got John Williams in here. What's up, John Alexander the Great conquered the Middle East and never heard of Jerusalem his whole lifetime.
He never mentions these things, which is curious.
That's a big one. Father of histories. This guy had nine volumes that he wrote about the world.
And like, they don't appear anywhere. You're going to want to see Gnostic informants coming up documentary.
He's going to be trying to bring out some elements that Yahweh isn't just a storm deity, but there's a lot more going on.
And it's going to be fun. I'm excited. I'm like, you know me. I'm a nerd. I love this stuff.
And anyway, I hope you're enjoying this with me. If you're weird like me, then thanks for being weird.
Myth vision. You really believe the mythology of the Bible? Me. Yes. Yes, I do. But it is history, not mythology.
Well, if it's history, so are so is Homer's Iliad and the Odyssey for me.
And I guess I would just start opening my mind to several other things in the world being true, you know, you know.
So I hope that you're having fun with me, everybody. Deb, good to see you on the Facebook side. Good show, sir.
Thank you, Deb. It's been a while. It's been a while.
He's dating your boyfriend. Well, you know, me and me and Paul do have like, you know, we tight, we tight.
Okay. Hello. I'm just now coming back after my rant and seeing everybody's Shannon.
You weren't supposed to tell everybody. Come on. What's up with that?
So I'm going to call Paul when we get off the show here. No.
Thanks for tuning in, though, Shannon. Really appreciate you coming in here and checking out what we're doing.
I just it's been too long since I've done a live stream. I've been working. I helped my brother and his wife get treatment.
They're struggling with addiction, which is normal. People have this, right? It's it's a real thing.
I bet you what we got 216 people watching right now. I can't imagine over 50% of us at least have someone that we love or have a family member who I guarantee you suffers with it.
So it's a human thing. We all have someone we might be suffering with ourselves. You're not alone.
Get help. Get medical help. Seriously. Go talk to someone. You're not alone. You can like life really does get better.
In the end, we all go to the same place. That's my estimation. But enjoy the sunlight while you can. And there's no reason in living stuck in that.
So I'm like this weird guy who likes talking about Bible, but also wants to inspire you to better your life and things like that.
And I hope that hope that seeps in. We have a friend here suffer with it. You're not alone. I promise you that.
Don Johnson, Mrs. And are you still friends with Pine Creek? I don't talk to Pine Creek. I have no interest at this point. So appreciate you asking.
If they've been too much. Where is that place, Derek? What place?
Shannon, thank you for the hearts. Good to see the love in the chat. We're all humans. We're all humans trying to figure this thing out.
Well, there's a girl who sits through all this and can listen to this stuff shocking. I guess there's always going to be one.
You know what? I mean, Shannon's pretty sharp. If I can pat myself on the back here, we do talk about some pretty intelligent stuff here.
Shannon is somebody I actually look up to and learn about consciousness. She introduced me to who was that scholar that I interviewed.
You interviewed particularly on like the brainstem and consciousness and stuff. I cannot think right now.
Anyway, if you haven't subscribed to her YouTube channel, you'd know why she probably is tuning in right now and saying, Hey, it's mostly pride, just the social love.
But on some real stuff, Shannon's got some brilliant work over there that she's done in interviews. You got to check her out. Shannon Q.
One has to want to quit. That's the problem. Wanting. That want. You get that little war, the wolf on both sides.
You might want to quit now, but your mind will change and then you got to stick with it. It's really, really hard.
It's not just as easy as like you just want it because you can really want it.
And then 20 minutes later, withdrawal set in, your entire persona in mind has changed.
That's why I recommend professional help because it's totally normal, but it goes down into that reptilian brain of fear, fight, flight and F.
Can't say it on YouTube. They might demonetize me, but you get the point.
All right, so we got a super chat. Shannon, neat misogyny. I hope you're not talking to me. I'm not, you know, but I think he's talking about the person in the chat.
Mark Somes. Yes. If you haven't seen Mark Somes right on consciousness, blew my mind.
Literally told me the reason I was addicted to opioids and how that played into the brain science and stuff and it has to do with love.
You want to feel loved like I'm like sitting on a confession seat here watching everybody here and tell me the reason why you know opioids really are something you cleave to is that you want to feel loved and you're missing that love.
And there is some truth to that. I've pointed this out with my whole Jesus testimony when I was in church that pastor that day.
First of all, guilt tripped me about lies that I've said and how I had to lie about those lies to keep lying, but then said there's a father in heaven who will love you unconditionally.
He sent his son down like the whole spiel of the gospel and I walked down to the altar and I accepted this heavenly father who was perfect because my dad.
My dad struggled with alcoholism was very aggressive and I'll say abusive, mostly verbal.
There were moments where it wasn't it got physical, but that heavenly father and man, it went deep.
I'm a pretty open book here. So the transparency, I'm not ashamed of my life, my past, where I'm at, where I'm going, things like that.
But yeah, brought back memories. Mark Somes. Thank you, Shannon for bringing my brain when my brain stops working.
Sorry, I can't focus on on the chat. My girl brain is thinking about ponies.
Thank you for the super chat and the love. Really appreciate it.
Best video I've done and so not watched enough.
Yeah, wow. So then your video with Mark, let me get this, let me get this right. I'm gonna pull it up so that people can go over and subscribe.
Bear with me. I'm about to call it quits here in a moment, ladies and gentlemen, please hit that like button.
I need to go eat.
And I'm sure that the Queen of MythVision is probably going, okay, dude, you talked enough, enough hearing yourself, because I don't ever talk.
Mark Somes.
The source of consciousness. Okay, here we go.
It's like you understand this stuff better than me, Shannon. I don't know the science like you do on the brain, but the source of consciousness with Mark Somes, the hidden spring.
Let me get you this. If you are ready to dive into some deep science and he even gives graphs.
What makes it so personal is Mark's own brother had brain damage and like how that changed him as a person.
Technically, how that changed his consciousness really made him realize what is the source of consciousness. That's how I took him.
And then he goes way in there about people who are missing like the cortex and still have awareness of infants, they're holding infants, if they're siblings, things blew my mind, blew my freaking mind.
Thank you so much, Shannon, for being here and showing love. I hope people will subscribe. I posted it in the chat.
Constellation Pegasus. Did any archaeologist find a VHS Cheech and Chong movie by that Israelite altar with the marijuana on it?
You know, I haven't dug deep into that, but they were burning marijuana incense on the altar.
Drugs in the ancient world. They're escaping and going and getting higher. I remember Christian that I was friends with at the time.
We had a falling out later, but he used to say when he would smoke, he felt like he was getting closer to God and things like that.
Look, I like the joke in the super chat, but that is something to be explored more, just how ancients took these drugs and it helped them in their minds to get closer to the divine realm and things.
It's interesting. In the Greek world, the books upstairs, Apples of Apollo and other things by like Carl Ruck, worth considering and looking into to understand how a lot of these things, like getting intoxicated on alcohol, they would see it as like a spirit, a daemon, or even a God entering into them.
Worth looking into.
Deb, you're you're one of the few in the fam, huh? You're a normie, as we call them people who aren't.
They don't have addictive issues. We call them normies.
Oh, someone with a super chat, literally someone, please tell the story of going to confession every other day as a curious teen for your sins. You mentioned it briefly and it killed me.
OK, story time, everybody. I had hormones like out the yin yang. OK, I was a young kid going through puberty.
I discovered these things called Playboy magazines. My father, who was a green brain, the special forces gave them to me. He handed me condoms and he handed me Playboy magazines and he said, son, he'd be drunk and he'd be sipping his alcohol.
We'll pretend the water is the Alki. Son, you want to live forever and I'd be like, yeah, dad, yeah, you know, you just want to listen to dad and you look up to him.
Well, he says, what did he say? He says, never swim alone. No, he says, hold on, trying to make this right. I want to make sure I have it phrased right.
He said something like, never give a ball. He says, never swim alone. Always wear a condom. Never swim alone. Never give a dog a chicken bone.
Always go to combat with a plan. Never use your tongue to stop a fan. These are the words he said and he said, if you could do that, you'll live forever.
He'd be like plaster and he'd hand me these Playboys and hand me condoms and said, enjoy. So that was my world.
Playboys led me into just the porn world and, you know, I'm a young kid and fascinated with sexuality and things like that.
Then I become a Christian and there's these texts and there's these look upon a woman with lust and there's these things that, you know, my flesh is bad and oh, what's wrong with me and I'm tiptoeing in dualistic fight inside myself of I need to do right and stop doing this.
But like physically, I can't help my hormones that desire to want to do these things.
Now I wanted to paint the background. So here I am in ninth grade, 10th grade going to high school and there's this group called Trojans for Christ.
Fun fact in that county. Our school was the number one for teen pregnancy and we were named the Trojans.
Now our mascot was a Roman like a Trojan from like Antiquity Greek Roman Troy the whole nine, right? So it wasn't about the condom thing, but I thought it was ironic.
We'd go in there and there'd be like worship music and we would do the whole spiel of Jesus each morning and I'd have a guilt trip because the night before, by myself, I'd watch pornography and do what young boys do with their lotion and their towel.
And I'd go down there and I'd ask them to pray for me and they'd lay their hands on me and then sometimes they'd be speaking in tongues. Sometimes they weren't speaking in tongues and they would try to help that demon of lust, the spirit of lust leave.
And I'd feel better. I'd go to church, like go to school, you know, we're in a public school where they allowed this little church group over here. This is in North Carolina. So it's in the Bible Belt.
I'd go to school, be happy next day. I probably slipped up the next night sometimes and I didn't want to go down that next morning because I'd be so embarrassed from going down and getting prayed over the day before.
Like what's wrong with you, dude? You can't just stop and then I would go the day after the next day and these people would look at me. I can't imagine what they would think.
This guy's coming down to get prayed over. Every time he turns around, he needs to be prayed for the same thing. What's wrong with this guy? This is what I imagine they're thinking.
And then I noticed over the years looking back, like how very few people ever got prayed over like that. And it must have been odd that I kept going down there to get prayed over and no one else had these problems.
Like you mean out of the 100 kids that were going through puberty with me weren't struggling with this thing? I find that hard to believe.
But I was just not ashamed. Never was ashamed to just be like, yo, this is my problem according to what I believe. This is wrong and I need to be prayed for because I was trying to be honest and really sincerely followed what I thought was the truth.
And so many years later, I look back and go, holy smokes, they must have been going, is Derek going to walk down here today? I wonder if Derek's going to walk down here to get prayed over again today.
I personally chalk it up to, I was being honest. Sometimes things, my experience tells me that most people were probably taught by their parents. Not everyone needs to know everything, you know?
But I just was trying to be honest and I imagine most of them aren't. That's my, I can't imagine. Now that's me pushing my experience onto everyone else, but it's hard for me to believe that wasn't happening to every human.
And so some people get embarrassed by these kind of conversations. I don't. It's completely normal and natural. I don't. At the time, I was embarrassed.
It was the walk of shame to go down and say, I have a demon and the demons still there for years. I did this. Went to Trojans for Christ for years.
And then when it wasn't at school, it was at church when, when it was more of a charismatic kind of group. So once we got into Presbyterianism and Calvinistic stuff, we had gotten away from needing to go down to be prayed for and stuff.
But we still try to handle it. I had this program on my computer called Covenant Eyes for Men. Your pastor has access to any bad sites that you get on. It'll email them.
Now, do you think that I ever went on that computer and did that? Hail to the no. I did not. Because I did not need him going, we need to talk, Derek.
It just, no, no, no, no, no. It's toxic. The whole thing is just not a good experience.
So someone, you now know, my friend, you now know the full skinny on the situation. And the reason you asked is because you're like me, aren't you?
I hope that that lets you feel like you're not alone, ladies and gentlemen. Like I just hate to break it to you, but it's normal. It's completely normal. And I don't know. I don't know.
Maybe it's time to eat. What do you think? I think it is.
Seriously, though, thank you for everybody who tuned in. I hope you enjoyed Dr. Richard C. Miller. We really dug deep into some stuff. I love that guy.
I love just doing this stuff and your hearts and likes and shares and comments and support means a lot to me. And I want to keep doing this.
By the way, Shannon, I know you probably know, but maybe you don't because Paul, you know, picks up my phone calls and how that goes.
He's talking about having me on his program as a cartoon. So finally, I've become deified to a cartoon for Paul.
Cross my fingers that that happens. But it's in response to William Lane Craig bringing up Richard C. Miller and me on his podcast in passing.
He brought up several other people, but it's to respond to some of the stuff that he said in that. So I got to prepare for that before we record on Tuesday.
Looking forward to it. Looking forward to it.
Oh, we got another one. Drugs for robots. Are you familiar with tell hard to chart in his idea of Christ, Christ of Genesis and the Omega point food for thought much love appreciate work.
I don't. I've never heard.
Hmm. I don't drugs for robots. I need to look them up.
But is there a way you can email me so I can go get some foods?
I would definitely appreciate it if you could email me.
William Lane Craig brought up Richard C. Miller and Derek. I've got to hear that. Yeah, it's on his podcast.
Actually, Paul from Paula Gia for those who don't know, I just call him Paul.
He will listens to William Lane Craig.
And even he admits he knows he's a strange guy for that too. We all are in some way.
But he said, dude, you got to check this out. You get bring you get brought up.
Okay, I'm going to listen. And when I listen, I was like, this is really interesting.
What he says is illuminating. And I can't wait to get into it with Paul. I love that guy.
So if you haven't subscribed, please do.
Joseph says, Derek could humble anybody because he's always grounded in logic and reason.
Joseph, love you. Thank you for the kind words.
I hope to be that way. But sometimes we all have our faults.
And I'm probably irrational in ways it happens, especially when emotion plays plays plays a plays a part.
But those are kind words. I'll take that as a compliment.
Thank you, everybody. I'm out. I got to go eat. If I don't eat, I'm going to hurt myself.
I've been exercising, taking care of myself, trying to get work done, got my brother and his wife help.
And yeah, I don't know what else to say, but let's keep kicking butt and taking names.
Oh, one more important thing for everybody who's still here.
We are myth vision. I love y'all. Have a wonderful evening.
