Ladies and gentlemen, I am working on doing a course with Dr. Kip Davis right now, Dead Sea Scroll scholar, Hebrew Bible scholar, and we're working through the ancient Israelite religion, the real ancient Israelite religion.
And in this course that he's about, well, the lecture he's about to do is actually about the comparison philosophically to the life of Pi, what actually happened versus what we want to happen, or what the stories trying to say happened, isn't really what happened.
He's going to be diving into this, and it's going to be a heck of a course you're not going to want to miss. This week we're recording that. Derek Bennett is here.
He's brewing a stew. You're going to want to sell your birthright for in response to Dr. David Falk, who not only did a blunder in his response to Atheologica, and of course his audience thought,
great job. I can't believe it. You did so good against Atheologica. Derek Bennett. Derek Bennett not only has Egyptologist in his, I guess you'd say, in his response ammunition towards Dr. Falk's position and what he said in the video, but he's going to do that here on MythVision and his channel will have a lot coming up as well with Atheologica, so make sure you subscribe.
Also, Dr. Falk really made a huge, ridiculous, misogynistic response to a super chat on his own channel about Francesca Stavra Capullo, and like Francesca is not only brilliant and very well spoken, but he literally made a point that she is only special because of her appearance, that she's a beautiful woman, and that they measure her by her cup size, not because of her scholarly work that he finds atrocious,
which is just scholarly consensus as Daniel McClellan points out in his video response. Go in the description, see that six or so seven minute video where he's responding to David Falk in what he's saying.
So not only does Derek Bennett, while he's brewing up his response to Dr. David Falk, who's an Egyptologist and not a Bible scholar, he is going to be using Egyptologists to point out where David Falk is wrong in his own field.
Now, I don't know if David Falk has actually studied all the way through the Hellenistic era into the Common Era and how Egyptian mythology and their belief system, if you will, has evolved over time and how much impact it may have had in the Mediterranean world of this period.
Obviously, Hellenism co-opted much of the Egyptian stuff, but Derek Bennett is going to be doing a PowerPoint presentation showing you some of the faults, some of the things that Dr. Falk got wrong.
Other than his misogynistic rant, I think it's important that we pick apart some of the stuff, especially since the internet world has so many non-academics such as myself, such as Derek Bennett.
We're not academics, but we rely on scholarship to dive deep into these things. And when someone has a PhD, as Daniel McClellan points out in his video, and goes around waving it to a crowd of Christians who want their world to be true, their worldview.
They want this stuff to be the truth, and David himself believes it's true. Man, they'll believe anything that he says. And he's said quite a bit of things lately, so we'll be doing some responses to that.
Michael Jones from Inspiring Philosophy has also done a video going at the dying and rising god motif, particularly at mythicists and, of course, skeptics. I'm not a mythicist, and I don't think mythicism makes the most sense.
I am a historicist. I've said this before. I'm happy to repeat myself, and maybe I'll write an article actually spelling out why, to me, the most clear position is there was a historical Jesus.
I understand why mythists think there may not have been, or some actually say there wasn't one. The all or nothing mentality needs to go with that kind of camp.
But I either will do a response video, maybe I'll do that anyway, or maybe a conversation with Michael Jones himself will take place here on mythvision. So we're responding to David Falk, Derek Bennett will be doing that here on mythvision.
We're going to be responding to Michael Jones from Inspiring Philosophy. The reason I'm making this video and not actually doing the response is because we're in the middle of recording a course.
Dr. Kip Davis is upstairs eating his lunch, and he's coming back down to continue the course. We're going to be doing side recordings, all sorts of stuff. Derek Bennett's working on his presentation to respond to David Falk.
One thing at a time. I'm guaranteeing you we're going to respond to also Michael Jones, whether it's in video format, or on the channel. And this morning, Michael Jones said he'd be happy to have a discussion on mythvision with me.
And I'd love to have that because I find what he did in that video, while I understand what he did, and I get it's easy to analogize or look to a parallel of something and go, Hey, it still doesn't prove or disprove the historicity of something that's later.
We're going to have to get into the details on this so you can understand why myth vision takes their conclusion in my hope.
My hope in that dialogue, because me and Michael get along more buddies. I mean, we may disagree till the cows fly. Okay, meaning we'll never agree on certain things.
But I can tell you this much. I think if we have a dialogue, my hope in that isn't to convince everyone in the world, people enter these kind of conversations tribalistically.
My position's right, your position's wrong, your position's wrong, my position's right. My own hope is that at least in the end, Michael Jones will understand, not agree with, not conclude.
I don't expect him to. That's never been my goal. People usually don't do that. People usually don't, from a conversation, just mid conversation, change your mind and join your team.
Not my goal. It's just so he understands and can walk away and go, Okay, I get it. I don't agree with the conclusion. I do believe Jesus rose from the dead. I get it.
I get it. However, I understand why you take this route and why this makes sense to you the way you take it. And I hope that the same can be said of him to me.
And while I want to understand him better, as I hope he does me, we can walk away and show how professional and friendly one can be in disagreements when you have conversations.
That's what I love to have. People call those debates sometimes. And if that's a debate, that's the kind of debates I like. It's more of a discussion. It's more of a, let's talk about this.
I'm not interested in the, you're wrong. And here's why I slamming fist on the table. So that may happen. Fingers crossed, we can make something like that happen.
Once Dr. Kip has gone, and I can get my head wrapped around that episode that Michael Jones did. David Faulk, Michael Jones.
Oh, Ruslan KD. He's some Christian Apologist guy who pretty much is in the same vein of like, what do you mean? And guys like that who are looking for like celebrity, like, what do people want?
I want hype content that gets a lot of attention kind of stuff to get a lot of views, that kind of person. He misunderstood me so much in my video with Brady Goodwin, who literally was fanatic, right?
The hip hop group that I feel like maybe I'm going to do a response video just to show how bad he actually understood me and took me out of context in a recent video that he was critiquing Brady on.
Most of that video was a critique of me. He took me out of context so bad that either he purposely was being deceptive to literally give this to his audience that is like wanting to milk him in and like, yes, please say something about this.
Yes, screw those guys. I don't even think he realizes who I am. He called me my vision, not myth vision. He didn't even get the name of my channel, right? And then misrepresented me multiple times in the interview that I did with Brady.
And then going even further, right? He doesn't even know we're an educational academic channel. He thinks we're just a deconversion channel.
Like they just get testimonies of people who do you convert and it's like toxic and all that. Dude, he has no clue the kind of scholarship in the material that we do here at myth vision.
And so I honestly wonder if that's why most people never respond within the Christian circles, typically. At least Michael Jones from inspiring philosophy is engaging.
And that's why I have always, even if I disagree with him and you don't like him, I don't care if you don't like him. There's people who watch him who don't like me. Got it. It's not my goal to make everybody like me.
It's not his goal to make everyone like him. But at least if I'm giving the benefit where I think it needs to be, you know, the credit do, he's at least engaging and making the conversation continue.
Whereas I just get ignored by Michael Winger or Mike Winger. I mean, I've emailed him. No, I won't. I'm not joining. I'm not coming on. I'm not going to talk to you.
I don't get those kind of conversations from people who are bigger. And it's like not many people will do that. You might see some people.
Who is the Christian apologist? Michael Brown, right? He'll respond. He'll have a conversation. But it's so psychologically manipulative in terms of emotions, the way he did that to Dr. Josh that one time.
And I'm more interested in a dialogue that's actually just intellectual and not so much an emotional. Now, you know, in your heart of hearts, you've done wrong, right? Right. And so it's like, come on.
So sorry, this is a very bright video. Just doing a quick response to let you know, be on the lookout. We have some stuff in the works. You're not going to want to miss out.
Go see Daniel McClellan's response to Dr. Faulk. And we'll be doing a popcorn review of a popcorn review. And I hope you don't miss out. Subscribe. Check out Atheologica.
Check out Dr. Kip Davis YouTube channels and Daniel McClellan all in the description. Thank you.
