Dr. Bart D. Airman, welcome back to MythVision.
How are you?
I'm doing well.
Thanks.
Thanks for having me.
I'm glad that you're here joining us again.
You have an upcoming course, the Scribo Corruption of Scripture.
Tease us with that, and then I have an anonymous supporter who absolutely loves what you do,
your work.
They're inspired by it.
They've learned so much, and they've taught me a lot along the way who's trying to get
some questions asked, and so hopefully we can give them answers.
Okay, that sounds good.
Yeah.
Well, the course is on November 11th, it's a Saturday.
It's a four-lecture course, each lecture 50 to 60 minutes with a large Q&A afterwards.
It's called the Scribo Corruption of Scripture, and it's about this topic that people have
gotten increasingly familiar with about how copyists of the New Testament often changed
the text they were copying, a lot of times by accident, but sometimes on purpose, creating
problems for us, since we don't have the original copies of the New Testament or even
early copies of the originals, but only copies centuries later.
How do we know what the authors wrote?
How do we know how Scribes changed the text?
How do we know why they changed the text?
How do we know anything about this?
You're reading the Bible, you want to know what the words were, and what if you don't
know the words, and so it'll be that.
It's related to a book I wrote years ago called Miss Quoting Jesus, but it's going to be covering
a lot of information not in that book, and a lot of information probably that people
generally haven't heard before.
Thank you so much.
I'm going to go ahead and dive into these questions just in case someone might be a little
more time consuming than others, and thank you to the anonymous ghost I'll call you who
helps make this possible.
Who were B.P. Grenfell and A.S. Hunt, and what contributions did their archaeological discoveries
make to New Testament scholarship, hint for Derek Oxyrincus Papyri?
Yeah, right, okay, here I am, back in my PhD exams once more.
So Grenfell and Hunt were two British archaeologists who, at the end of the 19th century, wanted
to discover manuscripts from the ancient world.
They were classical scholars, and they wanted to find ancient manuscripts.
For many, many centuries, people didn't even think about trying to find old manuscripts,
but after the Enlightenment, scholars got interested in works from antiquity that no
longer survived, and so they started going through libraries and monasteries, places
where there would be books to find them, but then eventually somebody thought, well, why
don't we try to find some archaeologically?
And Grenfell and Hunt did that, and they had this brilliant idea, which was, how do
you find a book?
They were thinking rightly that probably the Sands of Egypt would be a good place to look,
because the humidity in the sand is constant throughout the centuries, and so things don't
have a variation of high humidity, low humidity, it's constant, so things get preserved there.
So they say, okay, we're going to go to dig in Egypt, but where do you dig?
You can't just go to the wilderness and start digging and hope you find a manuscript.
And so they had the bright idea that you go to something that you know is a city that's
been covered up, not been excavated, and you find the garbage dump, because where are people
going to throw away their used manuscripts when they get a new copy of the something?
Where do they throw the old one?
They throw it in the garbage dump.
So they go to this place, and it's called Oxyrhynchus, it's in Egypt, and they knew
the city was underneath the sand, but they found the garbage dump, and the first thing
they find, the first manuscript they find, they find this little scrap of paper, papyrus,
and it has a saying of Jesus on it that was not found in the New Testament.
This was the first thing. Oh my God, you know I was striking gold right at the outset,
and they published it as an unknown saying of Jesus, and it turns out, so they found some
manuscripts that had these unknown sayings on them, and it turns out we found out about 50 years
later, when they discovered the Nag Hammadi Library, which has the Gospel of Thomas in it,
they found that these fragments that Grenfell and Hut found were from the Gospel of Thomas,
and so it went from there. They found thousands and thousands of documents there, most of them,
not biblical, of course. There were things like land deeds and divorce certificates, and book,
and sale, you know, sales slips and receipts. They found all sorts of stuff that immensely
grew our knowledge of antiquity. They found so many thousands of these things,
starting in the 1890s, that many, many, many of them have not been published yet.
They keep coming out. They come out all the time, and so they found a number of things,
including Gospel fragments and various other things in this thing, and so they were hugely
important, and so these are called the Oxyrhynchus papyri, so if somebody's interested in that,
they can just look up online the Oxyrhynchus papyri, and they can see it.
I was wondering about the recent discovery. If that plays any role,
how shocking, how interesting is that discovery to you, but...
Of the Gospel fragment, you mean?
Yes.
Yeah, well, another Gospel fragment is turned up, and it's not like, you know, just a copy of,
you know, Luke chapter 3. It's the kind of thing where they have, it looks like it's not a very
it's just a fragment, but it's pretty clear that it involves things found in various Gospels,
and so it's not, we don't have enough of it to know exactly what it is, but it looks like
one of these things, like other fragments that we have, like Papyrus Edgerton II,
which is a collection of that case. It's a little bit longer. We've got four stories
that are, you know, not in the same Gospel in the New Testament. The question is,
are these authors who are like coming up with these Gospels that seem to be combinations of
things? Are they using the other Gospels? Have they heard a bunch of stories that also made it
into the other Gospels? Is they, you know, how are they getting this combination,
and are they making up their own stuff? And so these are part of the interesting things of
archaeological discoveries of manuscripts. Thank you so much. What was harem, a practice
employed allegedly by ancient Hebrews to justify the extermination of enemies by killing everyone
with the possible exception of young female virgins? Does this not reflect
badly on the alleged moral superiority of Yahweh since he commanded it?
Yeah, so harem is a practice that in war, in some cases, you destroy everything connected
with the enemy, and you don't keep anything for yourself. And so, you know, in the book of Joshua,
there'll be cases where an Israelite soldier will kind of keep a souvenir or something,
and when they find out they kill him, they execute him because he's broken this thing,
because the idea is that Israel is to be distinct from all the other peoples that they're conquering,
and so you're not allowed to, in these cases of harem, you're not allowed to keep them.
And so there are some very ugly incidents in the Hebrew Bible. Today in one of my classes,
I was talking about the destruction of the city of Jericho, according to Joshua chapter 6,
where everything was to be destroyed, and so they killed every man, woman, and child in the city.
They didn't take any of the women as sex slaves as they do in other places in the Hebrew Bible,
but they did take, they killed everybody, including the children and all the animals,
and they weren't allowed to take any souvenirs, and so it's a complete destruction.
Everything is dedicated to God as a destruction, and so that was practice sometimes. Does that call
Yahweh's sort of moral integrity into question? Well, I would say for most of us, most of us
don't think that the divine being overall, if such a being exists, probably is interested in
killing innocent citizens and babies. But in Israel, according to the book of Joshua,
this was an occasional practice that they did that, because the fear was that if you don't kill
the children, that they'll grow up and they'll foster a rebellion later. So you kill them all.
It didn't actually happen. I mean, these are stories, but they're not sort of uplifting
stories. Even though when I was in Sunday School, we sang about the Battle of Jericho,
where the walls come a tumbling down. We didn't read what happened next in the story, which is
not good. I know exactly what you're talking about. Thank you for answering that. What is your opinion
regarding the authenticity of Matthew 16, 17 through 19, where Jesus chooses Peter to be the
leader of the church? It would be something a scribe would have added to support the claims of
the proto-Orthodox Church. Would Jesus have thought at that time he was beginning a church?
The content of these verses have been a bone of contention between Protestants and Catholic
regarding the doctrine of papal supremacy. Does the Pyros Petra wordplay found in the Greek word
in Aramaic the language both would have spoken? Interestingly, it was James. Sorry, that was
that was a question mark after both would have spoken. Interestingly, it was James rather than
Peter who was elected head of the Jerusalem Church after Jesus' departure. I hope that's
something you know. Yeah, that's a lot. One of my professors in graduate school, one of the most
brilliant people I've ever known, one of the most erudite learned people I've known,
Carl Fried Freudlich, wrote his PhD dissertation on this in Germany on this passage. And so it's a
very, very important passage. It is the passage where it's the passage where Jesus asks his disciples,
who do people say that I am? And some of them say, well, some say you're John the Baptist,
come back from the dead, or maybe you're Elijah, one of the prophets, and Jesus said,
who do you say that I am? And then Peter replies, you are the Messiah, the Son of God.
And Jesus blesses Peter. And he says his name at the point was his actual name is Simon.
He blesses Simon. And he says your name shall be called Petros. Because on this Petra,
I will build my church. And so Petros is a P-E-T-R-O-S. So it's the Greek word. And the word Petros in
Greek means a rock, like a stone, a stone. He says upon this Petra, which ends with an A instead
of an O-S, P-E-T-R-A, upon this Petra, I will build my church. Now a Petra isn't like a stone that
you pick up in your hand, the Petra is more like a, like the big mass of stone on a cliff face.
And so it could be a foundation stone. And so he says upon this Petra, I will build my church.
This was a huge source of debate during the Protestant Reformation and continues to be
among some Protestant and Catholics about what Jesus means. Because he says upon the,
you'll be called Petros, because upon this Petra, I will build my church. And in the Catholic
interpretation that's come down all the way for centuries and centuries is Peter is the one upon
whom Christ will build the church. And that is a play on words. Your Petros, I'll build the
church on the Petra. So Peter, the first Pope is the Bishop of Rome. The first Pope is the beginning
of the church and everything's built on Peter. That's the Catholic interpretation. Protestants
in the 16th century started objecting to that view by pointing out, for one thing, they didn't
think that Peter was the first Pope, that everything's built on the Catholic church.
But also they pointed out, just in terms of the interpretation of the passage, that Jesus says,
you are Petros and upon this Petra, I will build my church. It's not the same word.
And Protestants have frequently argued that the Petra, the foundation stone for the church is not
the man Peter, but the confession that he made. You are the Messiah, the Son of God.
It's that confession that is the Petra. And he's called Petros because he made the Petra.
So it's a play on words. And so that's the debate. So the question, the initial question that this
person was asking was, is it authentic? And I think the questioner gave us two options. Is it
authentic or was it added by scribes? And my answer is neither. I certainly don't think that Jesus
historically said that for the reasons that the questioner pointed out, that the idea that Jesus
was going to build a church, in other words, that when he died, the Christian church was going to
emerge. I don't think that that's something that Jesus himself talked about during his ministry.
It's something that happened after his death. When his followers came to think he got raised,
believe he got raised from the dead, they started their own community. And that grew and grew and
became the Christian church. Then later, they said, this is all planned by Jesus. But I don't
think in Jesus' ministry, he said that this line about upon this rock, I'll build my church,
is found only in Matthew. Matthew's getting the story from Mark, who doesn't say anything like that.
And it's not found in the other gospels. And so I think this is Matthew's way of doing it
years later. It's not something Jesus said. So I don't think it's authentic. But I also don't
think it's something added by later scribes. It's in all of our manuscripts of Matthew.
There's no question about its authenticity to Matthew. So it's not authentic, but it wasn't
added by scribes, it was put in there by Matthew, or by somebody in Matthew's community. This is
what Matthew himself thought, either that he came up with it in his own head, or it was the kind
of thing being said in his Christian community. So just to put the ribbon on that, on that present
there that you built for us, as far as the interpretation of what it meant in its context
from your academic background, instead of the tit for tat Protestant versus Catholic interpretation,
what do you think or what have the scholars that you're convinced make the most sense of this
was intended here? I think it's very difficult to say. This variation between Petras, P-E-T-R-O-S
and Petra A is very interesting. I don't think that we can say that it can't be like something in
Matthew. I don't think we can say, well, it cannot be very early because in fact James was the leader
of the church. We don't know how James eventually became the leader of the church. We don't know
if it was an election. I doubt it. I think James probably rose to prominence because he was the
brother of Jesus and so he's got a blood linkage there and so he became more important. But according
to in the New Testament itself at least, Peter is the first to be the leader of the church. He's the
in the New Testament is portrayed as the closest disciple to Jesus and so it makes sense that after
Jesus' death he would initially be the leader. There's pretty good evidence to suggest that
Peter claimed he saw Jesus after his death, whether he actually had a vision of some kind
or he saw something or whatever, but it's pretty clear that he was, if not the first, one of the
first to claim he had seen Jesus alive afterwards and since he had been the chief disciple, he became
the leader of the group after Jesus' death and then it wasn't long before James came in. James,
according to the New Testament, was not a follower of Jesus during his life and so he would not have
been the leader immediately after his death because it was only later. According to Paul,
James had a vision of Jesus too. I don't know how that happened or what it was. So what's going on
with this Peter thing? I think that Peter probably was the first founder, was the first leader of
the church and I suspect what's going on is that somebody's trying to explain why Petros is the
leader of the church and this saying gets devised in order to explain why Peter is the leader of
the church. But the thing is, if you're doing this in Greek, this appears to be a Greek formulation,
you can't say you are Petros and on this Petros, I will build the church because a Petros is a
stone that you pick up in your hand. You can't build a church on a stone. You need a foundation
and the foundation is called Petra but he couldn't have called Peter Petra because Petra is feminine
and so to make the wordplay work, you've got to have the foundation stone be feminine but the man
be masculine and so there was no option. I think it's playing on the words but it's not meant to be,
it was never meant to be that Petros is Petra because that doesn't work because of the masculine
feminine thing. Thank you so much. This kind of ties into this idea about James. What is your
opinion regarding the Despacini, something like this, D-E-S-P-O-S-Y-N-I, the term given to the
blood relatives of Jesus in the Jerusalem church. After the death of Jesus' brother James in the
60s, the leadership passed to Simon, Simeon, Jesus' cousin, brother, question mark. According to
tradition, do you think the family of Jesus were considering establishing a dynasty, a plan disrupted
by the Jewish war of 66 to 70? It would have been better than returning to subsidence or
subsidence living in Galilee. Either way, you get the idea. Right, so the question is, you know,
so Jesus, so in the New Testament, Jesus has brothers. This is something denied in the Catholic
tradition, as you know, but the Gospels are pretty clear that Jesus has brother, James, Jude, Simon,
and, well, it's Joseph, it's a kind of a shortened form of Joseph. So you have those
four brothers and you've got a number of sisters and things, and so the idea is that after Jesus'
Jesus' death, James becomes one, and then after that, Simon, and then you have this kind of
this lineage, and the question is, was there an attempt at a dynasty? I don't know. Our sources
of information are not very good about this. If I'm remembering correctly, a lot of this
information comes from Haggisipus, who's not, we don't have his writings, but he's quoted by Eusebius.
Haggisipus would be a second-century church father. Eusebius is an early fourth-century
church father who writes the church history, where he quotes a lot of earlier figures.
And Eusebius in places does talk about the brothers of Jesus and their lineage.
I don't think we know what happened to the Jerusalem church. According to one tradition,
Jesus' descendants are basically ruling this church for a while, and according to this tradition,
when the Jewish uprising happened, the Christian church had a revelation that they had to get
out of Jerusalem or they'd be killed, and they fled to Pella, and they kind of relocated there.
I don't know if that's true or not. The stories we have of Jesus' descendants,
I don't think, can be verified. They can't really be disverified, but there's not a lot going
for them, I think. I mean, another very famous story actually is told by Eusebius about the
emperor Domitian, who was concerned about the brothers of Jesus and what they were doing,
and he found out that Jude, Jesus' brother, had descendants, and he brought them in because
he was worried they'd start up a riot or something, and Christians were going to take over the world
or whatever, but he brought them in and they showed them their hands. Their hands were all
calloused because they were farm workers, and he realized, man, they're not going to be a problem.
They're not going to rouse an army, and so you get these stories. My point is, you get these stories,
and I don't think that we can credit very many of them. I think the only thing we really know
is that it does appear that James, the brother of Jesus, became a leader of the church in Jerusalem.
That kind of answers the next question, like, what are your thoughts on what happened at the
Jerusalem church following the end of the Jewish war in 70? Did it linger on for centuries on the
fringes of the Eastern Roman Empire before passing from the scene? Your answer is, you don't know.
I don't know. I don't think we really know. I think, you know, Jerusalem for a long time,
especially after 135. So, for people who don't know how this works, the first Jewish uprising
was in 66, and lasted actually till the year 73 with the Vala Masada, when the Romans
wiped out the opposition. But then there was a second uprising in the year 132,
so about 100 years after Jesus' death. There's another uprising, a revolt led by a figure named
Bar Kokhba. So that's called the Bar Kokhba revolt, that again the Romans wiped them out
in the year 135. And at that point, Jews were forbidden to enter into Jerusalem,
and so they converted Jerusalem into a pagan city, either a capitalina, and built a pagan
temple on the Mount, the Temple Mount, and the temples had been destroyed for a long time.
And so after that point, there weren't Jews allowed in Jerusalem, and there wasn't really
much of a Christian presence until the fourth century. And so it's not, there's no recollection
later of much of a Christian presence there, and it really isn't until the beginning of the
fourth century when there's a, there begins to be a cult to Stephen, the first martyr
that arises in Jerusalem, and then Jerusalem started becoming another point of attraction for
Christians when they started thinking about it. It was the place Jesus died, and the place where
Stephen died, and then it started becoming an important Christian place again, but for hundreds
of years it hadn't been. Thank you for that. When do you believe a first version of the New
Testament may have been compiled by the Proto-Orthodox Church, even if it differs from the one we have
now? Scholar David Trubitz, in his book, The First Edition of the New Testament, has advanced the
argument it may have been early as the second half of the second century, perhaps somewhere in Asia
Minor as a response to the version produced by Marcion in the 140s. So David Trubitz is a well
read and learned scholar. I think his book is completely wrong, and I think that the evidence
that he adduces for his view simply does not work. He, I think, I think it's really, it's not difficult
to show why, why the evidence he adduces, it just, it just doesn't work. Marcion is the first figure
that we know about who compiled a something like a collection of Christian scriptures.
There may have been people earlier than him, but we don't know. Marcion is this figure who is a
teacher who had a particular view of Christianity that he said is inspired by the Apostle Paul,
that maintained that the God of the Old Testament was literally a different God from the God of
Jesus, that there are two gods, and that the God of Jesus was a God of love who is trying to save
people from the God of wrath, the God of the Old Testament. Marcion believed that's what Paul taught,
and that, and so he can, he collected a group of books that supported this view. His, his collection
of Christian books excluded the Old Testament altogether, because that was the book of the
Jewish God, the God of wrath. It included 10 letters of Paul, and, and a gospel that was very much
like our gospel of Luke. And so that was his collection of scriptures, and the argument many
people have made is that the, the proto-Orthodox Christians responded to that by expanding his
gospel collection into four gospels, and expanding his Pauline collection into 13 letters, plus
letters by Peter, and by James, and by John, and, and so forth. And so the idea is that the
Orthodox collection that we ended up with is, in some part, a response to Marcion. That may be
right, but I think it's completely overly simplified. We don't know when there was a circulation
of proto-Orthodox books. What we can say is that there were collections of books. People would,
people certainly had collections of Paul's letters already by the end of this first century,
and it kind of makes sense. It doesn't mean that they're collecting the New Testament,
but you know, if you want to know what Paul said, because he's important to you, then you get as
many letters of his as you can. People collected gospels. We know this because we have gospel
manuscripts that have more than one gospel of them from around the year 200. And so they,
so the people are collecting books. When did somebody start collecting them and saying,
these are the authoritative texts? That can't, we don't have the evidence to say
one way or the other. I think there's no way it was happening at the end of the second century.
The evidence against that is so overwhelming that I think there's no way. As many people will know,
the first time we have our collection, where you get, you know, the 27 books, and not only
those 27 books, the first time anybody comes up with that is in the year 367 in a letter by the
Bishop of Alexandria Athanasius. But at that point, he's saying what he thinks the correct
collection is. We know of collections already by the 180s, by the 180s, but they're not definitive
collections. They're, they're, it's not like the proto-orthodox collection. There are lots of
proto-orthodox Christians who had lots of views of these things. And so I hear that a lot, by the
way, from a lot of apologists online. If they can prove early on that people used certain books,
they somehow will try to make this argument that these are the ones and we already know this goes
all the way back, you know, those kind of things. Well, you could say that, but your problem is you've
got authors into the third and fourth century who are saying that those books are not inspired,
they're not scriptural, they're not authoritative. I mean, in the, the person I wrote my PhD
dissertation on, Didymus the Blind, who was living in the, in the middle of the fourth century,
said that 2nd Peter is a forgery. So I mean, it's true that some people might be saying it's canon,
but other people saying it's not canon. So there's, so it completely depends on what you mean.
You know, when you say when is their first canon, I mean, depends what you mean by canon.
There were, of course, most Christians probably who were reading had books that they thought were
authoritative. But that doesn't mean that there's something like a, like a recognized canon. And
even when Athanasius came up with his canon, his 27 books, there were other Christians who still
thought, you know, well, actually the Apocalypse of Peter ought to be in there. Or, you know,
the book of Hebrews really does not belong in there. And so there were debates that went on,
and it wasn't, we're so used to thinking of a canon, because when we go to the bookstore,
we buy a New Testament. It's always the same 27 books. Pick your translation. And it just wasn't
that way in Christianity for hundreds of years. Thank you. What is the earliest extant manuscript
of the Latin New Testament, Bulgate, based on Jerome's translation? When is it dated?
Does the Latin translation vary greatly in context from the Greek? No, content, sorry,
very in content from the Greek.
I don't know when the oldest Vulgate manuscript is. I just don't know.
The Vulgate does differ in many ways from the Greek New Testament. It's not clear whether
Jerome translated the entire Latin Bible into Latin. The situation is a little bit complicated.
There were Latin versions of the New Testament before Jerome.
So much so, the Pope Damasus is the one who asked Jerome to make a more or less official
translation. The problem was there were so many translations that they were about it.
All of them were different from each other. And they wanted to have a standardized edition.
And so, Jerome apparently did do the translation of the Gospels. But it's not clear at all that
he did the rest of the New Testament. It was probably followers of Jerome that did other books.
So, Jerome, you know, so probably sometime in the early fifth centuries, when we start
getting these. But we have Latin manuscripts that are translations done before Jerome.
And for those who are interested in what the oldest form of the New Testament was,
those old Latin manuscripts, as they're called, are more important than the Vulgate done by
Jerome and his successors. There are things. I mean, for example, this passage that affirms
the Trinity, that there are three in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Spirit. And these three
are one that is found in the Vulgate, the Latin Vulgate, even though it's not in the early Greek
manuscripts. And so that's something to think maybe it came into the New Testament from Latin
sources, for example. But even when we say the Vulgate, there are different manuscripts of the
Vulgate. There are many, many thousand manuscripts of the Vulgate. There are far more manuscripts
of the Vulgate, Latin Vulgate, than there are of the Greek New Testament. And these differ from
each other so that there are different standard editions of the Vulgate. These are not hugely
different from each other, but they do differ from each other. And so we don't even have the
Vulgate, per se. Thank you so much. When it comes to Luke and Acts, do you favor the Western
or Alexandrian texts? And why? Why the differences? On a related note, do you have an opinion on
whether Taysian's lost diatesseron included the long version of Mark 16, verses 9 through 20,
based on the available surviving evidence? Well, these are two different questions.
Right. So to unpack that a little bit, the book of Acts circulated in two different forms. One of
them is seven and a half percent longer than the other. More words. And so a few extra verses here
and there. And so the question is about what's called the Alexandrian text and the Western text.
The Alexandrian text is a, so how do I explain this? When we when we look at Greek manuscripts of
the New Testament, since the 18th century, scholars have recognized that a lot of manuscripts have
a lot of similarities to one another whenever there are differences among the manuscripts.
And so suppose you've got a verse and some manuscripts read it one way and some have a
different wording, either a slightly different wording or major different wording, or maybe
some manuscripts have it, some manuscripts don't have it, something like that. When you when you
look at enough manuscripts after a while, you realize that some manuscripts typically agree with
each other a lot and other manuscripts typically agree with each other a lot. And so scholars came
up with the idea in the 17th century of grouping manuscripts according to their similarities
in places where they differ, where there were manuscript differences. And so these became textual
families and eventually they came to be called text types, types of text. The Alexandrian type of
text is a form, it's a group of manuscripts that scholars arranged together because they agree with
each other so often whenever there are differences among manuscripts. These tend to agree a lot
and they're called Alexandrian because it appears that this form of the text, these manuscripts seem
to appear to descend from manuscripts that originated in Alexandria, Egypt. Western text
manuscripts have, when there are differences, they tend to disagree with the Alexandrian
manuscripts but they agree with each other. And they're called Western which is a bit of a misnomer
because they actually can't be located necessarily to Western Christendom but when they, when people
came up with these designations, they thought that these were manuscripts, for example, that were
connected with Rome or someplace in the west. So with all that said, the Book of Acts is found
differently in the Alexandrian manuscripts than in these Western manuscripts. And it's a big difference,
seven and a half percent difference. And so the question is which one is the original form
or the most original form? Most scholars would agree that what we call the Alexandrian text is
the most original form for the Book of Acts. The question is how do you get this Western form?
And there have been a lot of interesting theories about that. One interesting theory is that Luke,
the author, whoever he really was, we call Luke, that the author himself produced two versions
of Acts, that he produced the Alexandrian version, say that's the first one, then later he decided
to expand it a bit and that became the Western version. Or the Alexandrian version was in circulation
and some scribe or some other person decided to make a new edition of it that expanded it
significantly. So that would account for the Western manuscripts. So there are lots of theories
that we've gotten over the years and people have these debates. There have been entire books written
on this. I ain't going to solve it here, but most scholars agree that the Alexandrian text is probably
the older form of the text. Thank you. And then I think of the idea about whether Tashin's diatesseron
included a long version of Mark 16, 9 through 20 based on the available surviving evidence?
Well, I doubt it. I mean, but so just to back up on that one. So the diatesseron
is the name of a form of the gospels produced by the mid-second century Syrian church father
Tashin. Tashin was a intellectual in the middle of the second century who was from Syria,
but he went to Rome to study with Justin, later known as Justin Martyr. Martyr is not his last name.
He ended up being martyred. And so they call him Justin Martyr, who was a very
prominent Christian intellectual in the middle of the second century. Tashin went to study with
Justin. And after Justin died, Tashin produced an edition of the gospels that took the four
gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, and put them together into one consolidated edition.
It's called the diatesseron because the dia means through and tesseron means four. So through the four.
And so people call this the diatesseron. And what he would do is if you have the same story in Matthew,
Mark and Luke, you you conflate them. And so you get a bigger story where all the details of Mark
and all the details of Matthew, details Luke are all put together. Or if the same story is in John,
you throw that one in and you come up with the larger version of that story. And the stories,
each one as of its own are all put in the gospel. And so all the stories and all the gospels are
together. And the ones that they share are kind of smashed together into a larger version of it.
This would have been produced in the middle of the second century, the second, early second
half of the second century. And it no longer survives. And it is, it is very, very difficult
to figure out what was in it and what wasn't in it. It would have been it was obviously a huge book.
But since we don't have it, reconstructing it is arguably the biggest headache of New
Testament studies. People, people, I know, I have friends who have devoted their lives
to trying to figure out what's in the Dio Tesseram. What was in the Dio Tesseram?
And boy, is it complicated because of because the kind of evidence they have to look at.
And so I don't know, but I don't think there, I don't, I don't think it was there, but I don't
think we can say. Thank you. Rather than the four gospels, the Codex Fildensis contains a Dio Tesseram.
Although you mentioned in an earlier Q&A that the one compiled Bitation has not survived.
Do you believe the version found in Fildensis may be modeled on this lost text?
So Fildensis is a Latin manuscript that has a gospel harmony. And a gospel harmony is when
you take the four gospels and you put them together into a fuller text. And some people
have thought the Fildensis is closely related to the Dio Tesseram. Some people have claimed it is
the Dio Tesseram, which seems unlikely, very unlikely. So is it, was it inspired by the Dio
Tesseram? It's possible. But the idea of putting the gospels together and together did not originate
with Tation. There are gospel harmonies before Tations. As an example, one is it appears that
Justin Marger, his teacher may have had a gospel harmony based on an analysis of his quotations
of the gospels. It may be that he himself is working from a from a harmony. And there's an
earlier account. The Gospel of the Ebianites, not a well-known book, is a, we have only fragments
of it in quotations from a churchfather, Epiphanius, and fourth century churchfather. But it appears
to be an early gospel. And in one of his quotations, it's quite clear that it's a gospel harmony.
And it's a pretty interesting case. Because in the gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke,
you have Jesus being baptized. So if you just read the individual gospels,
Jesus gets baptized. But the voice that comes from heaven as baptism says different things
in the three gospels. In Mark's gospel, Jesus gets baptized and the voice comes from heaven and says,
You are my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. In Matthew, the voice comes from heaven and it says,
This is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. So in Mark, it's speaking to Jesus. And in Matthew,
it's speaking either to John the Baptist or the crowds, not to Jesus. But then when you get to
Luke, it looks like the oldest version of Luke. This would be something I'm going to be talking
about in my, in my course on Scriptural Corruption. I'm probably going to talk about this verse.
And this, it looks like in Luke's gospel, the oldest reading appears to be the voice says,
Instead of saying this, or you are my son, my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased, it says,
You are my Son, today I have begotten you. Whoa.
Jesus became the Son of God at the baptism. What? But that looks like it's the oldest reading.
In the gospel, the Ebenites, the Epiphanius quotes. How does he, if you're going to combine the
gospels into one gospel, what do you do with the fact that the voice says three different things?
Well, what the gospel, the Ebenites did is it said that the voice came three times.
First, Jesus is baptized and God says, You are my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. The second
time, the voice then speaks to the crowd. This is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. And then,
the, then a third time, John the Baptist says, Well, who is this guy? This,
You are my Son, you know, today I have begotten you. And so it comes three times. And so that's
a gospel harmony. And so that's way, that's probably before tation, I think. And so, yeah.
So, so Fledentius, Fledentius isn't necessarily dependent on tations. It's the short answer.
It's really funny to see how far back harmonizing took place. It's right there out the gate.
Who was Manny and Manny Manny and the religion he founded? Did he, did his doctrines have any
impact on early Christianity? Yeah, so Manny was a some, you've heard of Manichaeism. Manny is the
guy who started Manichaeism. Manichaeism was a religion that was very similar in many ways to
Christianity. It had, it had a large following. Saint Augustine, before he became the Orthodox
theologian he was, was a Manichaean. Manny was a prophet figure who declared that he was a divine
being, a son of God, and wrote, wrote, produced writings. The basic idea in the Manichaean religion
is that they're, that the world is completely dualistic, and that there are forces of good
and evil that are doing battle with one another. It sounds kind of like Jewish apocalyptic thought,
but, but it's more of an eternal struggle within Manichaeism. And so everything is light or
darkness. You know, it's, it's falsehood or truth, and people side with one side or the other.
And so this was a, this was an important religion that, that probably, you know, probably starts out.
I mean, it becomes, it becomes an important religion in the third, fourth, fifth centuries,
and started by this person Manny, who unlike other sons of God actually wrote down his views.
And so he had a, he had a large following. And I'm, I suspect obviously pointed out some of his
doctrines, but he probably had a major impact in many ways. Do you think that those, that impact
trickled into and remained in certain versions of Christianity as time went by?
It's not clear to me that they did. The dualism has long been a feature of Christianity,
where we think of the, you know, the devil and God, and the demons and the angels.
And you think of truth and falsehood, and you think of heaven and hell and all these things.
And most of that could be picked up from non-Manichean sources. I think a lot of Christian
theology was being formulated independently of Manichaeism. But the dualism still, I think,
is attractive to people, because I think for some reason people, at least in our world,
tend to think in dualistic terms. Thank you, Dr. Ehrman. What is the book of Jubilees?
Right. So Jubilees is a Jewish writing. It's not in the Hebrew Bible. And it's not one of the
Apocrypha. It's usually designated as a pseudepigraphon. So it's a pseudepigraphic work. It is, it's not
part of the, you know, the Roman Catholic canon, let alone the Protestant canon. It is, it actually
is considered canonical in the Ethiopic Church as one of the scriptural books. And also among
Ethiopic Jews, it's a, it's a 50, 50 chapter book that claims to be a revelation from God to Moses.
And so it's a book of, kind of like a book of laws explaining, explaining parts of Genesis.
Sometimes it's called the smaller or the lesser Genesis. And so it was a book that was pretty
much on the margins of consideration, except in, in Ethiopia, build the discovery of the
Dead Sea Scrolls. It was a book that was found among the Dead Sea Scrolls. And so scholars'
interest in the book was, was reignited with the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls. So there's
been a lot of scholarship on it. So the basic answer is it's a, it's a Jewish book allegedly by
Moses that is, is not accepted as canonical. What's interesting about this book, just given
the little tease of my conversation with Dead Sea Scrolls scholar Matthew Munger, is he pointed out
that it's, it's evidence that there was no like solid firm, this is the canon, that they're still
kind of molding and adapting ideas and stuff. And it's a rewrite of Genesis in a way is what he
said. So it was just really interesting, like to add to what you're saying, how they did that.
It's fascinating.
No, that's right. But it's, I mean, it's because, I mean, it is evidence of that. And, you know,
there's other, other evidence of that. That's kind of the point of the Dead Sea Scrolls in some ways
is that, you know, that people, people look at the Dead Sea Scrolls and they, and, you know,
evangelical apologists say, you know, this proves, you know, that X, Y and Z, you know, it proves,
you know, there's a canon of scripture or something, it proves this, that or the other thing.
And in fact, you have all these books among the Dead Sea Scrolls, including like First Enoch,
which are hugely important among Jews in that community. And Jubilees is another one. It's a
book that's hugely important in that community, and is accepted as authoritative. And so the idea
that you have this kind of canon by the time of Jesus that all Jews agree on is simply not true.
And that's one of the virtues of the Dead Sea Scrolls for us as scholars today.
Thank you so much. Thank you so much. You keep telling us about the scribal corruption
this course we opened up to this whole session with. Again, what are we, what are we looking at
here, Dr. Amon? Well, we're looking at a four lecture course. It's dealing with this kind of
issue about how scribes were copying their texts, changed them. And it's not going to be just the
fact that they changed them. I think a lot of people know that. And a lot of people may know
that we don't have the originals, and we don't have the first copies of the originals, and
they know things have been changed. But in this course, I'm going to go much deeper and to talk
about things like how do you know, how do you go about analyzing a text? How do you know what the
author wrote? And why don't you have more examples of this in the English Bibles that we buy? Why
is it that you have these really important changes that change the meaning of an entire passage,
and you don't even get a footnote about it? And I'm going to be talking about places where
that happens, where there's a good deal of uncertainty, including about passages that people
are very familiar with, where scholars debate what they mean. And one point I'll make is, you
know, a lot of people who have opposed me, evangelical Christians, have insisted, no, we've
got, we have so many manuscripts of the Bible that, of course, we can know what originally said.
And I'm going to show why it's just not true, and why they will agree with me.
They will agree with me. The reason they'll agree with me is because they know
they're scholars of the New Testament, and they know they disagree with some of their friends
who are also evangelicals about what this verse originally said. So if we can know, why don't
they agree? I cannot wait. Everybody go sign up. I can't wait to see you there. Dr. Ehrman,
it's always a pleasure to interview with you, and you're always a blast. So thank you for your time.
Okay, thank you. This has been fun. You as well.
