Looks like the almighty God of the Bible has a taste for blood and surprise.
He apparently doesn't look like what most of us would expect the creator of the universe
to look like.
I mean, who would have thought that the all-powerful, all-knowing God described in the Bible as
having a human-like form with a penchant for sacrificial mills.
Talk about a curveball.
It's like finding out that Santa Claus is actually vegan.
You're awesome.
So God's being so concerned with food.
This is something as well.
But before we get to that, Ezekiel and Genesis.
This is something I thought was fascinating because I always read the Bible as a Christian
and always thought Genesis is the beginning, Revelation is the beginning.
It's written in the chronological order in which they were really written or something
because you're not told all these things.
But you mentioned about this in Ezekiel, you know, it talks about this king, this ruler
who says in his heart, which is like where you think in the ancient world of Oregon or
your heart, which is down here is actually where you think not your brain.
But we're not going to go there because I think you said that plenty of times on your
other episodes, I really want to get something unique out of you in terms of this.
So I will rise above the throne of God.
I will.
Yeah, I will sit upon.
Yeah.
He wants to go up the holy mountain and sit on the throne of Ayle the High God.
Yeah.
So this is written before Genesis is a count or Genesis is Genesis.
Yeah.
So it's kind of complicated.
So the story that we have in, so basically Genesis two and three, the story of the expulsion
from the Garden of Eden is not a fall, it's an expulsion, has a lot of similar motifs
to a lot of material that we find in Ezekiel and in that, that material in Ezekiel is probably
older.
So that's probably, you know, kind of sixth century, but drawing on an older motif, whereas
the material, the story that we find in Genesis is probably about fifth century.
But what both are, but kind of, they both share the same mythic kind of schema or trope
in which you have this, the first human who across ancient Southwest Asian mythologies,
the first human was generally understood to be a paradigm of the king.
And the king was understood, you know, the role of kingship, because a lot of these texts
and myths were produced within royal high status contexts.
So the first man is the, the paradigmatic man is the royal figure, the king, who is
made and appointed to perform various tasks on behalf of the deity in the earthy realm.
So the Ezekiel myth does talk about an anonymous ruler who in the context in which we find
the myth is probably to be identified as one of the foreign kings that's harassing your
always-owned people, like an Assyrian king or a Babylonian king or possibly an Egyptian
king, but probably a Syrian or Babylonian.
And he says, you know, I will ascend the holy mountains, phone, I will make myself like
a god, I will sit on the throne on the seat of the gods in the divine council on the top
of the holy mountain.
And God who here is the terms used for God are both ale and Yahweh.
He's like, no, you're not, I'm not having this at all, I'm gonna, you know, you're gonna
die like an immortal, you're not a god, you know, one of the kind of qualities of divine
nature in some ways is kind of perpetual immortality.
So even if like Barne, you die, you don't die forever, you don't stay dead, you know,
you come back.
So yeah, this king is expelled from this holy mountain, which in Ezekiel is also called
Eden.
It's this beautiful garden of God.
He's expelled and sent down into the underworld where he obviously dies.
And then his corpse is exhumed and trampled by enemies.
So this is about kind of wiping him out in every possible way.
In the ancient world, you only exist for as long as you're remembered.
So even after death, you have a postmortem existence and you continue to have a social
relationship with the living.
But if your tomb is desecrated, if your bones or your remains are destroyed, if you're eaten
by wild animals and shut out on the ground, that basically is completely eradicating you
in a material sense.
And therefore, you no longer, you can no longer be remembered and you no longer exist.
So that's what happens to this king.
But yeah, it looks like a lot of that myth that we find in a way that Genesis material
and Ezekiel material are both later reflections of what looks to be an earlier kind of mythic
trope about one divine or semi-divine figure trying to usurp an older, more senior divine
figure and kind of being taken to task for it.
It just always excites me to learn this stuff.
What about the gods and food, right?
So they're always concerned about food and not eating their food in the ancient world.
Or God's being so concerned with food and not you humans, mortals, eating their food
in the ancient world.
Did the temples' demise change the understanding of God eating in Jewish thought?
So I kind of wanted to get the idea, we're talking about him being a corporeal deity who
needs to eat.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, because when we use the language of sacrifice in our own cultures today, we
have the sense that it's something that we're giving up something, that it's hard for us
to give up something.
It's something very precious.
But sacrifice in the ancient world, I mean, it's just sacrifice living things, animals
or humans sometimes.
You could also sacrifice all the other things that were important and sort of the mainstay
products of human consumption.
So you can sacrifice wine and beer and honey and oil and bread and fruits and cakes.
And so sacrifices in temple economies were a way of not only getting money into the temple,
but it was a way of sharing a meal with the deity.
So say if I was a worshiper, actually, let's say you, because this is what we're talking
about very masculine is kind of culture here.
If you wanted to go to the temple because you want to petition the deity for a particular
kind of blessing, you might take, I don't know, a lamb or a couple of pigeons and you
take these, the temple, the priest will sacrifice it on your behalf.
And then some of that food will be burnt on the altar as food for the deity who would
smell, was constantly told in the Hebrew Bible that Yahweh is attracted to the sweet aroma,
the pleasant aroma of sacrifice, kind of like, kind of, you know how like you can smell the
barbecue and you're like, God, that sounds really good.
It's like that.
So it calls the deity into this social relationship around the altar with humans.
So the deity would eat part of that sacrifice normally, and then the priests and other ritual
officials and would eat the rest.
And then you would also get a little part as well.
So you're kind of sharing in a meal with the deity.
And this was a way of basically forging and maintaining a social relationship with the
God. So just as the same way that food times, like meal times are important social family
occasions for all of us, you know, think about the great, you know, the big festivals that
we celebrate, whether it's Thanksgiving or Christmas or whatever it is, you know, food
and a particular kind of feast is a focal part of that.
And that's because it's about this sense of bringing a community, a group of people together.
You forge and maintain social identities and relationships.
And that's exactly what temple sacrifice was about.
As far as the eating that really caught my attention, you did it really well in making
me think of something I never thought about.
And that is God just got done flooding all humanity.
Let's forget that there's earlier Mesopotamian myths that really give us the precedence for
why this is.
And they kind of give you a different reason in the biblical account, getting God off the
hook for just being annoyed for noises and whatnot.
But here is like this complete genocide of the human race.
And here's this one guy he finds is like, well, you know what?
I like Noah.
Okay.
And his family can have this little group.
Noah gets the barbecue up as soon as dry land comes up and God smells it.
Yeah.
And am I correct in assessing this and saying God was ready to eradicate all and then he
smelled that meat and he said, why did I kill all these humans?
It's not so much that he said, yeah, it's not so much he says, why did I kill all these
humans?
Because within the kind of narrative arc of that story and obviously that story in between
Genesis six and nine is drawing on all sorts of different other traditions.
So it's been kind of edited and redacted and shaped into a kind of a narrative.
But within that narrative frame, you've got the sense that God's not pissed off.
You know, he doesn't regret.
He regrets that earlier, he, you know, he floods the world because he regrets having
made humankind because they have become so corrupt, mainly through having sex with divine
beings.
But that's another story in Genesis six that we can talk about.
But so when he smells the smell of the sacrifice of no sacrifice, it's then when he says that
he's decides that he will never again flood the earth and not just he will never again
destroy humankind, he will never again destroy living creatures.
So it's a kind of a covenant or a relationship and agreement with nonhuman life as well as
with human life, which I think is it's quite an important theological point given the state
of the world and the climate crisis at the moment.
It's quite an important point, you know, for these kind of particular Christians who think
that the earth is ours to to exploit no matter what.
I think that's a really important theological point in those particular traditions.
As far as the food goes, though, because they're so like he's butthurt about Adam eating this
fruit, like it's obvious that food is so important in the ancient days for the God.
So I kind of wondered if like that sacrifice he made to God, what made an impact where
he kind of has this like, I've I've starved before like where I'm like feeling like I'm
dying and then a fresh plate of barbecue comes before you some really fresh cooked meal.
And then it's like I am thankful for everything like I am willing to start over a fresh start
because that food was everything to me.
I wondered if that food played that kind of role in God's mind of like, you know what,
man is continually wicked.
His heart is continually wicked, it says in the context there.
So I'm thinking it's like, you know, you know, tomato tomato, you know, like, look,
you made me some food and I'm really I don't know if that made him convince that he didn't
want to do this.
I think, yeah, I mean, I think because again, within the narrative arc of the story, this
is the first sacrifices offered.
I mean, yes, you've got a cane and able offering their sacrifices in Genesis four.
But then that whole generation, you know, so that's pre flood humanity, they've been wiped
out.
Noa is the only one left.
And so this is this is the first kind of bonding moment that new agreement with the new humanity
that is going to, you know, stem from Noah and his kids and their families.
And so, yeah, it's exactly that thing about sitting around a table and this idea of forging
intense relationships, social relationships, that that's exactly what's going on with that
sacrifice.
And it's, you know, and it is he smells the pleasing smell and it pleases God, he wants
he wants sacrifices.
So yeah, then fast forward to the destruction of the Jerusalem temple, first in the sixth
century BCE, and then again in 70 CE, the loss of the temple for those scribal communities
who are producing a lot of these texts, the loss of the Jerusalem temple was huge.
And so the, the, when the temple's not there, if you can't sacrifice, then that does necessarily
shift the logically the way in which you might understand those sorts of offerings to function
for the diocese.
