Dr. Francesca Stavrakapulu is a brilliant scholar who is very well written.
She is going to point out today that your God, the Biblical God, needs to rest.
But so did all the other ancient Miriastrian gods.
They all needed to sleep at some point.
And is the Seventh Day Sabbath idea unique only to the God of the Bible?
Or was there a well-known sacred idea of a Seventh Day or Seven, of course, preceding
the Biblical text in ancient Mesopotamia or in the ancient Near East?
Francesca has been under fire as a woman in academia for a very long time.
And she shouldn't be respected or listened to because of this idea, often in academia.
She's had this kind of criticism, if you will, or people don't take her serious enough.
I think it's important that as you pay attention to today's episode, you recognize the brilliance
that she brings to the table.
And we thank you, Francesca, for doing this episode with MythVision.
Now let's congratulate her, get a copy of her book, and show everyone why we appreciate
what she does.
This is going to sound a little awkward, but the next question I have is about the Sabbath
and Seventh Day idea.
There's a guy who's floated around on the internet, those in the chat know.
He's been very kind to me, don't get me wrong, but he's gone around bragging victory over
all these academics that I've had on and saying, we're all under a Seventh Day calendar.
And this all started with the God of the Bible, a Seventh Day calendar.
Therefore we're all technically responsible and we are under this God's jurisdiction.
So we are all technically sinners who need to repent to this God because this is the
true God.
We have seven days and I was reading the book, the origin of the Seventh Day Sabbath was
my question.
Maybe you have a thought on, but you mentioned a Sumerian lament where Inanna is singing
to Enlil because he is sleeping.
While his people and their land are in famine on page 256, maybe I can read it teasing people
to really get this book.
I can't tell you how much I'm impressed with this.
The goddess Inanna traveled from her temple to Uruk to Nippur in the hope of rousing Enlil,
feigning my father's feigns lying down, she cried.
May I soothe his heart, may I pacify his liver, may I direct my words to his distressed heart.
Sitting on his lap, she sings him awake with the refrain, O sleeping one, how long will
you sleep?
Inanna's lament was considered so powerful that her cult singers recited it in her temple
at Uruk on the Seventh Day of each month in the hope of appeasing the gods for any unknown
misdemeanor which might prompt untimely or stimulated slumber.
Precautionary measures were only sensible, discerning the difference between a sleeping
god and a sulking god was not always easy.
Many centuries later in the 6th century CE Yahweh's worshippers were singing petitions
to awaken him to the devastating aftermath of the Babylonian attack.
Rouse yourself, why do you sleep, O Yahweh, awake?
Do not cast us off forever.
Yeah, so there's lots of stuff to unpack there.
I mean, the Seventh Day is a very significant number in a lot of ancient South West Asian
cultures and so time is very commonly divided up.
I mean, not always.
I mean, in some contexts, like in a certain Egyptian context, the number 10 is very important.
But 7 is very common in a lot of ancient South West Asian cultures as a means of marking time
and probably primarily scholar's think because you could see seven planets in the night sky
with a naked eye at that time.
So these seem to, it was a particularly powerful special number.
So it's not unusual to have seven pop up a lot across these cultures and not unusual to have
the idea of a period of time being seven days was not unique to Yahweh worshipping cultures either.
So that's one thing.
I mean, the idea of the bit that you read is when I'm talking about the notion that for
a lot of Yahweh's worshippers, inaction, divine inaction or divine neglect could be understood
to reflect either a God who was sleeping or a God who had simply withdrawn.
You know how we all kind of, you know, if you're kind of depressed or tired or sulky,
you take to your bed and you just don't want to engage with anybody.
It's kind of a similar kind of thing for the gods of the ancient world.
They might just withdraw socially completely.
So when in that particular poem that I refer to in the Hebrew Bible,
arouse, you know, wake up Oam Bi'awe, that's because that was written in the time of the
Babylonian destruction and exile, so destruction of the temple, the exile of elites to Babylonia.
And they're saying, you know, they're singing to Yahweh's arm, you know, his fighting arm.
Wake up, wake up.
You have to kind of, you have to kind of rescue us from enslavement in a foreign land.
You have to come and fight for us.
You know, they just assumed that his withdrawal is because he's sleeping.
You know, so he is completely disappeared from their lives.
I said that was very common.
The idea of Sabbath, meaning seven, but also his rest is that this is predating the Bible
by millennia.
I mean, the Yahweh cult is late, Johnny come lately again, right, on this notion,
but the unique way that they've kind of instrumented it to be, that might be unique,
right, how they've made it in to be, or is there a Sabbath of preceding this culture
where they are resting with their God?
I mean, yeah, I mean, some scholars have certainly argued that in certain
cults of particular deities that you had a Shabbat, a day of rest.
So, and that was as much for the deity as it was for worshipers.
But yeah, like I said, there's very little that is kind of purely
innovative in some ways, like when you're looking at these kinds of the ways in which
ritual, the ritual calendar is organized and ways in which certain sacrifices function,
the ways in which certain ideas about what a temple is, what a deity is, you know,
there's, I'm not saying there's nothing innovative, but the grand shape of things
is not particularly exceptional in that sense.
But I mean, I like the idea of, you know, we've got this sense that, you know, the Sabbath,
you know, Shabbat is a day of reflection and kind of theological thinking and not,
you know, not working because you're meant to be focused very much on the idea of being in
this relationship with the deity.
But, you know, you get a particular verse next to us in which, you know,
Yahweh himself is talking and he sort of says that, you know, on the seventh day,
he had to catch his breath because he was tired, you know, having made the universe in days one
to six, he was, he was tired on, you know, he was running out of puff on the seventh day.
You see that in the Hebrew, right?
There is a state of breath.
Yeah, exactly.
Okay, so we're not making that.
Yeah, in the Hebrew, in that particular verse in Exodus, it uses the same word that's used to
describe the kind of catching, you know, someone who's been doing hard manual labor,
kind of like sitting and resting and catching their breath like that is the same word that's
used, which is a really nice image.
I mean, it's a very um, compatible image, isn't it?
Kind of likening, kind of theologically it's showing that God put all this exertion and work
into creating this beautiful world.
So in some ways, it's kind of nice.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
In some ways, and then the other ways I kind of want to emphasize the ancient construction
worker God was, in fact, he must be the first person who was ever making humans from clay,
I suspect, right?
It's, I'm being sarcastic here to read a part of your book, page 277.
Again, I love this, by the way, I cannot tell you.
I'm like, oh, I paused the audible and then I go in and I write it down.
Then I get the page and I'm highlighting, it's my Bible.
Clay shaping bodies had long been a ritual actively undertaken by both gods and mortals
in a Sumerian myth.
The ingenious God, Inki, and the birth goddess, Nenma, had crafted the first humans from clay.
What's this, peopling their temples?
I think, okay.
Yeah, peopling their temples, farms and fields with worshippers devoted to their service.
In a related tradition, the goddess, Mami, chanted an incantation as Inki trod the clay
for her to shape into people.
At Ugarit, it was processed similarly performed by Elb, who had made an exorcism goddess from
clay to Kira King Kerta.
I shall create a remover of sickness, an expeller of disease.
He fills his hands with the best of clay.
He pinches off that which is used by a potter.
Meanwhile, in Egypt, the God most frequently associated with the creation of humans was
Kanum, who crafted all living things, including some gods on his potter's will.
I love that.
You are the master of the will.
Who is pleased to model on the will?
You have made humans on the will.
You have created the gods.
You have modeled the small and large cattle.
You have formed everything on your will each day in your name, Kanum, the potter.
That sounds like the Bible, but way earlier.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, that's the thing.
It's like, I mean, clay shaping is, I mean, you know, the one that it was the most important
substance in some ways within these particular cultures because it's so, you know, it's there.
It's everywhere.
I mean, you need good quality clay to make kind of like a figurine or whatever.
But it's also, it's the base stuff of life, you know, the understanding that humans are
made from, not just humans, but other living beings are made from clay.
As you've demonstrated, it wasn't just a biblical kind of idea.
It was a much older, far more widespread idea across ancient South West Asia.
So yeah, the idea that humans made, you know, when humans made their figurines of gods out
of clay, they were mimicking the gods themselves who made humans out of clay.
So it's, it's a really, it's the primal matter of life and that's in these particular cultures.
But yeah, it's a lovely image.
And, and, and yeah, like, I think that's why it's so important to set these biblical texts
within their brawler cultural context is because otherwise you get all sorts of claims being made
about the innovative unique status of certain theological ideas.
And therefore they are, you know, so exclusive that they therefore they must be true.
They're not, but it's, you know, they're all drawing on a much more bright, you know,
much wider, brawler, richer cultural tradition.
And it's just that Yahweh just happens to be one God among many who, you know,
but he just happens to be the God that's kind of survived into the modern day,
you know, unlike Ananda or, you know, which is such a shame, I'd much rather be intersted around.
I wish we knew a lot more too about these gods that come before because
we kind of only know from our tradition what's being preserved.
And I just wish we knew a lot more.
