Dennis, thank you again. Patreon question. Kathy Braccato, thank you for being a patron.
Consider joining today if you're not. We could use your help.
What does Dr. McDonald think is the most likely Greco-Roman source for Jesus telling his disciples
to eat his body, drink his blood, given it is so, so contrary to Jewish beliefs. Thank you.
Well, the Greco-Roman background that most people identify with this phenomenon,
and I have no reason to doubt it, and some reason to reinforce it, is it's a part of
Dionysian religion, because Dionysus was a dying and rising god, and as a part of the ritual,
there was the ritual eating of raw flesh called the omophagia, and the manual dissecting of animals,
often rabbits apparently, but in the literature also fawns, and drinking the blood, or it may
have been ingested by tasting the blood on the raw meat of the omophagia, and the tradition about
that and the meaning of it is really quite diverse in antiquity, but that ritual seems to have been
real and widespread, and so the idea of eating Jesus's blood, flesh, and drinking his blood
probably is a Dionysian background. The place where this is most obvious in the New Testament
is in the Gospel of John, where Jesus says, unless you munch my flesh, because chew the
flesh and drink my blood, you have no life in you, so it's not just an institution of memory,
as it is in Paul and in Mark, but it's a salvation act. You get salvation through this event,
which is not one of memory, but it's one of a mystical union, so that when people drank the
went through omophagia and the drinking of blood as a kind of metaphor for the wine of Odysseus,
probably, immortality was offered, and in some cases, unity with the deity, so that some initiates
that became called bakans in this identification with the God, so that seems to be the closest
history of religion's background to it. There may be relations also to Orphism,
but Orphism was not a strong factor with early Christian teaching, so there also is a very
interesting case to be made that you have something similar to a memorial meal in the
Socratic tradition, because in the phyto, when Socrates is on his last day, he tells his closest
friends just before he takes the cup of poison to have a chicken meal in his honor, and basically
give a sacrifice to his sleepiest, the God of healing, because Socrates is going to get healed
from life by killing himself thanks to the hemlock, and then he will be freed from the body,
and so that's a memorial meal of some kind, but that's not the origin of the Christian Eucharist,
so I supervised the dissertation on this topic, and the student wrote a beautiful dissertation
and argued that the background was Dionysian, and I think that's probably the best answer.
When I grab the mic, you know it's time because I'm going to ask, you know, I probe a little on
something I'm interested in. We find this in the Gospels, we find this in Paul, we find this in
the Gospel of John. John, as you say, is very explicit, chew. I did chew for those who didn't
see my hand, but the question I have is, where did this idea come from? So like, I could see the
Gospels, we've been watching them do mythology a lot, they harp on mythology here and there,
and as I've been learning over the years in myth-vision, and it's really myth-vision,
I've learned more in the past two years, I think I ever have in my entire life about anything,
and it's finding out, did you know these Jews lived in, you know, this place called the Mediterranean
world, and like, you know, it was just pretty much Hellenized through and through everywhere,
even the heart of Jerusalem had Hellenism. The Maccabees, the sectarian groups that were
located in Qumran Caves, so you can't hide from it, it's there. You know, remember that saying in
Ecclesiastes, wherever, if I go to Sheol, you're there, if I go here, Hellenism is like that, okay?
So Jewish writings that oppose Hellenism have Hellenistic models that they're using to do it.
This is obvious in the Third Maccabees, where the Bacchai is a part of the resistance. You have it
in Judith, where you have imitations of the Iliad and the Odyssey, probably, and it's against
Hellenism, and you have it in the Book of Tobit, which has probably imitations of the Odyssey,
I think, quite clearly, actually. So even when you oppose Hellenism, you use Hellenism in order to
oppose it. Just like we brought up earlier in the course that people are going to sign up for,
when Josephus uses Moses' translation when he actually died, your copy in the Hellenistic
idea is to make Moses better than the other Hellenists. And I was like, oh, okay, good job. Good
job, dude. I actually like this stuff. I love finding out something like that, because it's like,
oh, you're so slick, Josephus. You know he's read his Bible. You know he's seen this, but he also
knows I'm in competition with this guy. So if I've got a Fagatella make it, I will. I don't know.
Anyway, I can't read his motives, but this question I have about Paul and the eating,
there's a ceremonial meal in Paul, and they have an agape meal that I hear about. That's
anyway, that's a different discussion. But my point is, is Paul, earliest attestation of the
Jesus movement, they're already doing this in Paul. What, you know, I could see it in the Gospels,
because we talk about them being highly mythologized and them copying Dionysus,
are we suggesting that Paul himself was influenced by Dionysian
mystical or Dionysian comparisons? He is engaging with Gentiles. I wouldn't be shocked. I'd become
all things all men could factor into this. But what are your thoughts about the sacramental
meal in Paul? I don't know, honestly. I'm not an expert in Paul as I once thought I was.
I know that the ritual is not apparent in the Q document, and the Q document is not
entrusted in memorializing the death of Jesus in any case. I do think it's helpful, though, to add
the things that, let's say, Joseph Campbell and others would add, that is the sacrifice of an animal
sometimes is understood to transfer life into the one who ingests it, or the community that
ingests it. So you have this in Native American religion, too, I understand, that the taking
of an animal's life is a way of transferring power to someone else. But in the Pauline tradition,
it's a memorial meal. It's a celebration and a recognition of the catastrophe of Jesus' death.
No, I'm not sure what the analogues would be to that. My student argued that there's a Dionysian
background even to that in the Pauline tradition. Ladies and gentlemen, be sure to sign up for Dr.
Dennis R. McDonald's Greek Mimesis in the New Testament course, reading the Gospels with one
eye on Greek poetry. Dennis spends 18 lectures diving into several parallels, building up the
methodology to show you his methods and how he sees that the New Testament authors cleverly
rewrite and really make Jesus such a better figure than what we see in the older Greek myths
and their poetry. You can sign up today, own it for life. There are several hours, well over
eight hours of content in this course with 18 lectures. Dennis gives you so much to read and
look up and consider in investigating. Did the New Testament authors actually imitate the Greek
epics to write their narratives about Jesus? There's several reading recommendations,
additional resources. Under every single one of the lectures, you can download one through 18 on
mp3 in case you want to just download it and have it in your whatever the device might be in order
to work and listen at the same time. You don't have to just see it. But if you decide to watch
the content, it is all in 4k, extremely high quality content. As you can see.
And you did it in from, we have a Greek lab and the audio is nice and loud. Takes you through
his book. Dennis takes a deep dive. Be sure to sign up today. I hope you will. This helps
Dennis McDonald and it helps educate the world on what's going on in scholarship.
