There are so many problems with their methodology, you know, it's like, where do we begin?
The first thing they did is they went out and announced this thing and then they wouldn't
show the pictures of that they finally released a year later.
They had those pictures, but they didn't release them because they knew they just get laughed
out of the room.
If they would have come out of there with a legit inscription, that would have been problematic.
But the fact that they're coming out of there with this little thing that they won't show
us that they can't open that they're using these scans.
And then after all of that, we get this drunk ant at a picnic wandering around with these
letters that don't look.
It's just a mess.
No scholar in their right mind is going to look at this and say, Oh yeah, that's that's
legit.
That looks legit.
It's it's a it's a fundraising campaign.
It's been the fundraising campaign since the beginning.
It's a scholar desperately trying to find any kind of evidence that would support their
fundamentalist view of scripture.
The only people you see endorsing this, promoting this are people who are on the the Stripling
Galeel team, right?
The Associates for Biblical Research or these guys, or people who are fundamentalist, conservative,
evangelical Christians who already want to believe this.
Welcome back to Myth Vision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
I have a special guest.
I'm shocked we haven't had him on yet on the channel.
And that is Dr. Robert Cargill.
Welcome back to Myth Vision.
Actually, not back.
Welcome to Myth Vision for your first time.
Happy to be here, Derek.
Thanks for having me.
Thank you.
I want to get into the curse tablet, quote unquote.
Notice I already called it something that they labeled it.
What the heck is going on here?
So I noticed that you had a YouTube channel and I've noticed it for some time, but you
did a video about this topic.
It is in the description.
Go watch it if you want to see a more exhaustive approach where you're looking close at the
drawings and some of the stuff and you're highly skeptical.
So to tease our audience up before we introduce you is that you need to watch his YouTube
channel.
You need to check out that video for sure.
Can you introduce us to Myth Vision's audience and allow us to know your background, your
expertise and maybe what we're going to get into today?
Sure.
My name is Robert Cargill.
I'm Associate Professor of Classics and Biblical Studies at the University of Iowa, so Go Hawks.
I'm also the editor of an online website and YouTube channel.
The website is Bible and Archaeology.
The website is Excavator.
It's my own brand, but it's working with the Bible and Archaeology website.
And this started off as an online service, basically an online news and information service
that quickly morphed into basically a place where we can provide YouTube content because
we noticed that print magazines have been on their way out for a long time, but everything
went towards YouTube and because the technology got so good so quickly and because I've been
doing TV for God, it's been since like 2004, 2005, and I don't even want to think about
how many years that is, but it was before this was white.
I know that I've been doing it for a while, and so we decided to just start writing popular
content.
I've been doing public scholarship for a long time, and it's that intersection between
the Bible and biblical studies and archaeology.
So it's not just biblical archaeology, but it's the Bible and archaeology.
And I'm here at the University of Iowa, this beautiful place, Marshalltown, by the way,
they make all the trowels is just here in Iowa, just up the road.
And so we partnered together with Marshalltown, and we put together Bible and archaeology.
And so I edit Bible and archaeology, I teach my courses, and I try to provide as much reliable
content directly to the public as I can.
I see you also have a few publications, which on your actual website or the Iowa website,
they mentioned these publications, but I want everyone to notice on Amazon, you can get
one right now affordable, really affordable, the cities that built the Bible.
What a heck of a title.
That really piques my curiosity.
You told me to call you Bob before we hit record, so I'm going to comfortably begin
to call you Bob at this point.
I just wanted to formally have you presented to our audience, but that is interesting.
I've had others like Ronald Hendel join me mentioning where do the ideas of giants come
from and it's interesting.
Maybe they approached these massive cities after they had to leave and notice these massive
blocks and go, only a giant could have.
The imagination runs wild, but you also published another book, and that is Melchizedek, King
of Sodom, How Scribes Invented the Biblical Priest King.
What in the world is going on here, Bob?
Yeah.
So these are two different approaches.
One, Cities of Built the Bible is a book that I published with Harper One.
This is a Harper Collins unit.
The premise here is, how did we get the Bible that we have today?
What I tried to do is tell the story of how we got our modern-day Bible by looking at
some of the cities that contributed to the building of the Bible.
We look at Phoenicia, Biblos, and Tyre, and we look at where this concept of an alphabet
comes from, the Phoenician alphabet.
We look at Ugarit and the transition from Qnayiform into this continental system.
And then we look at Nineveh as a representative of Assyria.
We look at Babylon and all of these, using the cities to look at the contribution of
the context of ancient Israel.
And then, of course, we move through the intertestamental period.
We look at Alexandria.
We look at Athens.
And then we transition into the New Testament.
We end up in Rome and the canonization of the Bible.
And it's written at a popular level.
So anyone can read this.
I explain everything like someone would do in a church or in a synagogue.
So you don't need to have knowledge of Hebrew or Greek.
I really do teach like a freshman level or maybe a high school senior level.
And so that's what that book is.
It was it was me telling stories about travels and trying to blend that into some of the
questions that I get a lot when I teach at the University of Iowa.
So that's a popular book.
Melchizedek is the opposite of that.
The Melchizedek volume is a very technical volume, which has a pretty simple premise.
And that is that Melchizedek wasn't the king of Shalom.
He was actually the king of Sodom.
That the way that we have it in Genesis 14 today is due to scribal changes to the text of the Bible.
And yes, there were changes made to the text of the Bible over time, right?
It happened multiple times.
And so my argument is that if you read Genesis 14 with Melchizedek, not being a separate figure that
just vanishes in and vanishes away, like, you know, Hebrews reads it later on,
like many of the Second Temple traditions read Melchizedek.
But if you read Melchizedek as the same person as the king of Sodom,
that the story makes a whole lot more sense.
And so then I try to back away, you know, try to set that argument up and then try to show it
linguistically, try to show it contextually.
But again, it's done in Hebrew.
It's got Aramaic.
It's got Euridic.
It's a very technical volume done with Oxford University Press.
So they'll probably charge you a little more if you get that book.
And I hope that anybody who's interested in diving into that material, please,
you know, check it out, drop a review.
Let us know.
I mean, let Bob know.
Let him know that, hey, MythVision sent me and MythVision got me aware of your work.
And I love your work because that's what I do.
I really enjoy what I've seen so far from you, Dr. Cargill.
I might try to bounce back and forth between formal and Bob.
But so you've done a lot of work.
It seems to be, you know, a lot of these ancient languages.
You're an expert in the field.
So you came across this curse tablet and Scott Stripling, Dr. Stripling,
he was fully convincing to you right out the gate.
It appears, right?
Like you just knew this guy's telling us the full truth about what's happening.
I try to be as professional as I can.
I'm a big believer in the academic process and being professional.
And that carries over into public scholarship.
And this is something that I've noticed not just in the political realm that we live in today,
where, you know, professionalism and courtesy and diplomacy is just thrown out the window
and you just scream at each other.
Right.
But in the academic context, especially in the, you know,
when we're talking about the Dead Sea Scrolls or Second Temple Judaism,
there are people who are professional and there are people who aren't as much.
And so I really try to have everybody get along with each other.
I'm a positive person.
I want people to get along and to follow the academic processes.
There are problems with them to be sure and they can be improved and critiqued.
But I like it when scholars follow the scientific method, make a claim and then support the claim
and then we debate the claim.
We disagree with each other and then we go out and have a beer.
You know, we go out and have a diet soda or whatever.
That's how this works.
Iron sharpens iron and we, you know, make each other stronger.
And then, you know, some of us public scholars come along and try to explain that whole mess
to the public.
What Dr. Stripling did is he bypassed all that and he went directly to the media.
And let me just say from the outset, there is no inscription on that so-called inscription.
And he just bypassed the academic, the peer review, all of that.
And he just held a press conference and he went directly to the public knowing that
this was going to help him raise funds, which is not illegal.
That's legal.
Nothing he's done is illegal to my knowledge.
It's completely legal for him to make an absurd claim.
It's completely legal for him to recruit students to his fundamentalist seminary.
That's legal.
This is everything he's doing is legal.
So let's just put that out there.
But it's not good scholarship.
Let's just say it that way.
And so I don't call them names.
I don't call, you know, it's Dr. Stripling all the time.
Dr. Galeel, his partner in this.
But it's been an absurd claim since the beginning.
And this is why you won't see any legitimate publications, academic publications,
publishing this thing.
Academic publications do not publish unprovidence artifacts.
And that's what this is.
It's a two centimeter piece of lead that's been sitting in a dump pile for 40 years.
It's unprovidence.
And all of the academic publications have gotten together and said,
we don't publish this.
All the museums don't display these things.
And he knows that.
And so he had to bypass all that and hold a press conference.
And from the outset, this has been a media campaign.
It's it's been designed to raise money.
It's been designed to recruit students to his digs, to his to his seminary.
And so I think it's important that public scholars, not just me,
there are several of us on Twitter, on Instagram, on YouTube that are trying to
basically say, we know that academic publications are never going to address this.
So we need to take up.
It's been a media campaign.
We'll deal with it in the media.
And that's what we're doing.
So there's a lot you just said that I think is fascinating.
You used to work for a publication.
Can you tell us a little bit about the process when you were in, I guess,
you'd say in charge or you had some serious role in in publishing?
I guess you'd say proven provenance objects.
But what can you can you give us some insight on where you used to work?
And what what, you know,
sure, you're referring to biblical archaeology review.
Yes, sir.
Yeah. So after Herschel Schenck's resigned from biblical archaeology review,
I was brought in as the editor of a bar.
And one of my jobs was to give it some academic credibility.
Now, they had some academic credibility, but there was a long history of them
publishing on provenance things of stirring controversy, which, you know,
as a magazine, you're going to do because you want to sell copies.
But a lot of times it was thought that it was done in a way that, you know,
was just stirring controversy.
And so what we wanted to do was basically bring bar into a more credible situation
where we're not publishing unprovidence things anymore.
And so as one of the first changes I made is no more publishing unprovidence things,
like the James Oswari or that, you know, this box that, you know, had oxygen breathe into it,
you know, life breathe into it because it would kept getting published by bar.
The other one was, you know, we weren't going to take ads from places like the Museum of the Bible
that was that was knowingly buying black market Dead Sea Scrolls,
you know, fragments.
And we just weren't going to be involved with an organization that all these scholars were
saying, you can't do this.
And then, of course, they got busted.
It became very clear that all of these Dead Sea Scrolls things that they had been buying were forgeries.
And, you know, that was embarrassing.
And they had to admit that.
And then they had to send back all these other looted things that they had purchased.
And we didn't want to take ads from them, and we didn't want to publish unprovidence things.
And so for the for the three something years that I was editor, we didn't do that.
And now what we're seeing is I'm no longer the editor there, that Barr has published a couple
of these things about the Mount Abal inscription, and they're doing it, you know, asking the question,
you know, what do you think about this?
But the problem is they're giving it oxygen, they're giving it light by publishing it
in this magazine, they're putting it out there for their readers to see.
They're giving it some legitimacy, and they're taking ads from the Museum of the Bible.
And they're doing some things that I wouldn't, and that is completely their prerogative,
and they get to do that.
And that's what they get to do.
But it's not something that I did when I was editor there.
And again, the reasons for that is you want to promote public scholarship,
and you want to do it in a responsible way.
And I understand that academic world is different from the public world.
I've been doing this for 20 years.
But you want to do it in a responsible way, a way that entertains and that asks questions,
and that gets the public interested.
But you can't, you cannot give oxygen to these absurd claims.
And let's just be very honest, this so-called Mount Abal inscription is an absurd claim at every level.
So this, I have to make a confession here to you, Bob.
When this first came out, I jumped on it.
I contacted Dr. Stripling, and he joined us here on MythVision.
And he came on and said, here's what it says on this tablet.
It says, curse, curse, curse.
And I was kind of shocked at how many curses it says.
And I'm like, I don't know how beneficial this is to a Christian.
But someone's screaming curse to someone asking God to do it.
But I just gave him a platform.
He came on and he said it.
And of course, I even had some people who said, look, there's some problems with this.
I mean, he's claiming it's in, I think he said, I can't remember where he said it.
It was West Bank is where he was at, actually.
So there's already some drama and problems and political ethical issues that are involved.
And like, how this all is going down.
I didn't realize it.
I just jumped on it and I gave it a little oxygen.
So confession here, apologies for me.
But I'm making up for it, right?
You know, I'm trying to make sure I get out of purgatory here
by having you on to set the record straight.
What are the problems?
I mean, can we get into some of the issues?
Yeah, of course.
And again, I want to make clear my distinction here.
When a YouTube, when a podcast, when we're dealing with it in the public media,
I think that's where it needs to be dealt with.
I've made four videos about this amount of all inscription lengthy ones.
And that's where this needs to be dealt with.
It needs to be dealt with in social media.
It should not be dealt with in any kind of academic print media,
because it didn't follow any of the academic rules.
And it's an unprovidence object.
So you're never going to see it in context of scripture.
You're never going to see it in any of the official inscription volumes.
It's never going to be in the Israel Museum.
It's never, that's pie in the sky dreaming on their part.
This is an unprovidence, you know, hunk of lead.
There was probably a seal or a clasp of a bag or a string or a cord or something.
And it's a Rorschach test.
That's what this is.
It's a Rorschach test.
And we can say this for a couple of reasons.
And I go through them in my videos, but I'll summarize them here.
One, from the outset, before they even discovered this, you need to understand
that associates for biblical research, Dr. Stripling's,
one of the organizations with which he works,
is a Christian apologetic organization.
They go into the field.
On their website, you can read this.
And I put the screen caps in my video.
They say from the outset that if the archaeology doesn't match what the Bible says,
the archaeology must be wrong.
The Bible has to be correct.
And if there's anything that archaeology or biblical scholars say
that doesn't match what the Bible says, then these guys are wrong.
The Bible has to be correct.
That is not a scientific or scholarly position.
That's a fundamentalist.
That's an apologetic position.
That's a theological position.
So all of this scholarship coming out of the Holy Land for the last century,
they're trying to undo because they don't buy it,
because it doesn't match what the Bible says.
You know, they want the ancient Israelites to have conquered the Holy Land
the way the Bible says that they conquered the Holy Land.
And they want the Bible to have been written by Moses at the time that,
you know, the Bible says that it was written.
And none of the evidence, none of the archaeological evidence
and all of the internal biblical doesn't support that.
But they can't have that.
And so what they're looking for and what they've been digging for, and again,
the IAA is not going to give them a license.
So they have to dig in the West Bank and get permission from the army.
And so they dig in these dump piles in these West Bank sites, which is problematic enough.
And they find this hunk of lead and then they can't see what's actually there.
So they run this scan.
And then, of course, once they get all these lines and squiggles,
and what they're seeing is degrading lead, right?
So it's it's it's stress fractures and it's all of these different lines and different
and they press them all together and they say, oh, look, it's a warshack test, right?
So they say, oh, I see this over here and this over here.
And they make up their own little script and they date it based on the lead,
not when it was written.
And they they come up with all these different things.
And then they say, here's.
And this and I and I honest, I don't mean to laugh at them.
I'm just saying they then say.
And again, if we give them all of that, they then say, and here's the inscription.
And they they don't go right to left or left to right or back and forth.
Like you're like scholars, you know, like scribes did at the time.
They've got this alphabet soup thing where the when they finally revealed the photos,
you're like, oh, my God, what are you arguing?
And they've got this thing going around and the no two letters are the same shape.
And, you know, they're looking at a line, but they don't count this part.
And two letters are on top of each other.
And it's just a big ball of gun.
It's this is a word they use in Hebrew for just big jumbled mess.
If you've ever, you know, tangled up a cord or a string and it's just a this is a ball of gun.
And that's what they've got.
It's just a it's an absolute bunkers mess.
And they just keep going out to the public.
They know they can't get this through scholars.
So they just go to the public and they just keep making their claims and they go on tour
and they make their things.
And it's a media campaign.
It's a fundraising campaign.
And that's what they're doing.
I kind of like calling things what they are when I'm investigating stuff.
And I don't mean it to hurt people's feelings.
And I am not interested in being derogatory.
But if a spade is a spade, I feel like this is outright dishonest.
Um, it's got serious, motivated reasoning behind it to the point where it's wishful thinking.
And what really got me just by what you said is they had right when I had Dr. Shripling join me.
He had already had the words, the sentences, everything already like they had already known
right out the gate, curse, curse, curse.
I can't even remember the whole phrase.
But like, are these words I mean, you can read or at least you can probably piece together
some of this word, some of the words that they're trying to put.
Even based on the image, that drawing that you were dissecting through Photoshop to try and show,
are those letters actually corresponding to the words curse, curse, curse?
Are they making them say that?
So in my first video, they said, here's, they didn't show the pictures.
This is, I mean, there are so many problems with their methodology.
You know, it's like, where do we begin?
The first thing they did is they went out and announced this thing.
And then they wouldn't show the pictures of that they finally released a year later.
They had those pictures, but they didn't release them because they knew they just
get laughed out of the room.
So they announced, here's what it says.
And so what we did is we figured out, well, this is what it would have to look like.
And so Aurora, Aurora, Aurora, right?
You know, there would have to be some kind of moat, you know, some kind of word for death,
a ta, you know, for you, the Hebrew word for you, a yahoo, you know,
they'd have to be this, the name of the, of the divine name.
And then so we went back and we, we figured out what it would have had to say,
then based on their, their making up some script, but it's, you know,
based on this paleo or this early, this early Hebrew script is based on the Phoenician or the
proto-alphabetic, this proto, proto-Semitic script that they're calling it, this proto-alphabetic
script, this is what it would have had to look like.
And so we, we were basically able to come up with what it should look like,
if what they're saying is actually there.
And we put it into the line.
And then when they actually revealed the photos, we were like,
no, just it's, it's, they changed their mind three or four times.
And we have to remember that over the ensuing year, from the time they made that press release,
at the linear theological library, to the time they actually got around to publishing this
article in heritage science, which is a niche technical journal about making these scans.
Gershon Galil, Dr. Galil had leaked all of this stuff on his Facebook page.
So, you know, the whole time you've got Dr. Galil not getting along with other members of his team,
and they don't agree on things, but Galil thinks he's, Dr. Galil thinks he's got this figured out.
And so he starts releasing this stuff on his Facebook account.
And so we knew what he was going to say, because people are seeing him say it on Facebook.
And then he realizes he has to essentially create a precedent for these letters he's imagining.
So then he sets off on this three or four discoveries where he's seeing these letters
in other inscriptions, famous inscriptions, the Salome Tunnel inscription, and these other places.
He's saying, oh, there's actually an inscription on top of this, and I'm seeing it over here.
And it just became comical. The analogy I use is it's my, it's my seven-year-old son, Judah,
laying in the grass, looking in the clouds, and seeing different shapes.
And so it got to the point where every time they would post any image whatsoever,
even if it had nothing to do with Mount Abal, we would, we would go through and put the lines or
roar and we, and we'd repost it back on Facebook, because that's what they're doing. They're just
seeing what they want to see. And just like we see in politics or just like we see in any kind of
fundamentalism, the people who are already predisposed to believing them, believe them.
Wow, what a campaign. So we have unprovenanced materials that come from a pile,
a dig pile that was done 40 years ago. There's so many questions I have about that even.
That's a big deal. This was an archaeological, I mean, you've seen digs, you've been on a dig. It's,
you, you excavate and you dump it in a pile and you excavate and you, and once you dump it
into a dump pile, that's contempt. Everybody's dumping different layers and different things
into that pile. By the way, people are throwing other things in that pile. Tourists are coming
along and taking things out of the pile, maybe throwing their gum in the pot. I mean, whatever.
It's for 40 years, right? Moses is running around the desert for longer than this, right?
It's for 40 years. And I'm not accusing them of this, but a forger could come along and put,
you know, anything. It's, it's a, it's a contaminated site. And so they can wets
if that thing all they want. If they would have come out of there with a legit inscription,
that would have been problematic. But the fact that they're coming out of there with this little
thing that they won't show us, that they can't open, that they're using these scans. And then,
after all of that, we get this drunk ant at a picnic wandering around with these letters that
don't look. It's just a mess. No scholar in their right mind is going to look at this and say, oh,
yeah, that's, that's legit. That looks legit. It's, it's a, it's a fundraising campaign. It's been
the fundraising campaign since the beginning. It's a scholar desperately trying to find any kind
of evidence that would support their fundamentalist view of scripture. That's all this is. That's
all that's ever been. That's exactly what I noticed when he was interviewed on Sean McDowell's
YouTube channel. He was asked the question, so what does this mean, Dr. Stripling? And
he goes, you want me to take my scholarly cap off? And he, you know, you're like, and then he takes
a scholarly cap off metaphorically speaking, and then goes, what this means is that Joshua,
at this time, they, the Israelites could write, of course, there seems to be a debate among scholars,
whether or not Israelites or, or Judah Heights or whoever in the region may have been able to write.
I know that Finkelstein doesn't necessarily think so. Other scholars think maybe they did have writing.
Who cares at the end of the day? But the point is, is like, this somehow proves that Joshua and them
had writing and therefore Moses could have had writing in the Bible, could have been written
as it's described in the Bible. Like it brings credibility again, like you said, back to the
Bible as being the foundation and, you know, screw all these other scholars. Pretty much what I hear.
They're all wrong because this little two, is it two centimeters?
Yes, it's, it's postage stamp size. It's not big at all. And you can't open it. Remember,
what they're claiming is there's an inscription on the inside of it, but unfortunately, you can't
open it and see it. And, you know, unlike the, the flaktery scrolls, these, these Phyllan scrolls
that are in the Dead Sea Scrolls, where they write in a miniscule, this really, really micro text,
and they write out in lines. We can see those, right? We have those from the Dead Sea Scrolls.
These guys are supposedly writing at this size on lead. So that means they're using a stylus
and carving it. And of course, it's absurd. That's, there are no letters there. And of course,
they're not writing in lines. They're writing, it's, it's not there, but it has to be there.
Because that's the only way they're going to get any press.
So I want to take your best guess, because we're guessing, we don't have the object,
we don't even have the images like we'd like, that they haven't really put out.
I've heard through the grapevine, Dr. Gad Barnea actually said that you may have thought,
and it's just a guess, that it might be this little clamp or a clasp or something for string,
like you mentioned. But there's even a debate on whether or not this is really as old as they
claim, because they want it as old. I thought I overheard Dr. Shripling say 15th century BC.
Now, I've also heard it could be Roman era and that this lead, we have the region where lead
would have been excavated. And so can you get us in, excuse me, can you get us into this whole
argument here? Like take us closer into what, where, what is this thing?
This is an old debate over, we've sourced the lead to this place here, but again, it's also
where you make paper. If you find the source of something and we say, okay, this dates to this
century, that doesn't necessarily mean that the lead wasn't brought on a ship from over there
to the Holy Land, right, over into Canaan. And then it's there for a long time, reused,
reused, reused. And then at a later date was used for something else, right?
I know the individual, I'm not gonna say names, but I know the individual that they are citing
as saying that it's this old person. Again, I'm curious to see what this individual,
actually the scholars, legit scholar, good scholar, digs in Israel. One of my grad students
is actually digging with them now. I'm curious to see what they actually come down with because
they keep saying, oh, and we, when we get this person's final report. Yeah, you notice that they
don't have that yet. This, this notion that just because this metal came from a, you know,
came from a place where the, the ions and the, it all, it looks like it comes from this
source over here and this definitely comes from this age. That's great. Raw materials aside,
defixios usually come from a later date. They exist. In fact, one of the people on the, the
publication team wrote a book about these things. But if you look at the book and the
defixios in the book, they're all from a much, much later period. If you look at the scans that
some of the people on this team have made, they're from a much later and a much more easily legible
period. And that's my point. They have all these academic people who are proficient in
making these scans and that's what they did. There's some of these people made the scans and
did the technology, good, great job. And then you've got Dr. Stripling and Dr. Galeel who say,
and here's what the letters are and what they say. And I'm betting, I'm willing to bet the money in
my wallet that the people who made the scans weren't in on determining the letters and the
interpretation. They're not philologists of Semitic language. They're not archaeologists of,
of the Holy land. So I think you have a team that's making the scans and then you have Dr.
Galeel and Stripling trying to offer this interpretation, but they put all of the names
up there at the top of the, of the publication because they're trying to leverage the credibility
of this niche technical journal onto all of their claims, including the interpretation of
these letters that aren't actually letters so that they can say, see, we published in a peer
review journal. It made it through peer review. See, scholars actually agree with us. No, we don't.
No legitimate scholar in philology or biblical studies or archaeology agrees with you. Nobody
does. So this, this lead, if I'm not mistaken, just like silver, just like gold, can be melted
down and reused several times. If I'm, is this not the case? It's lead. It's malleable, right?
It's very soft. It's, and it degrades, right? We know that it degrades and so you use it.
Apparently, it's incredibly fragile because they can't open it. It's degraded lead. They
admit this. That's why they can't open it. And so they're taking these scans and they're seeing,
and in one of my videos, I actually take some, some of their own scans. Again, I use their
own published material and I show, you can see the shadows, you can see the contours, you can see the,
the cracks, you can, you can see the puncture marks. And sometimes they see these as letters and
sometimes they don't. And the arbitrary nature of everything they do, plus the random, you know,
line of where the letters are, everything about this is just, let's say it in a kind way, doesn't
follow any legitimate academic standard. And it's why scholars are just rejecting this out of hand.
The only people you see endorsing this, promoting this, are people who are on the, the stripling
Galileo team, right? The associates for biblical research are these guys, or people who are fundamentalist,
conservative, evangelical Christians who already want to believe this. They are looking for evidence
like these guys are, oh, I want to believe. That's why we made this, this meme of, you know,
from the X-Files, I want to believe and we have the thing. It's, it's, they have every right to
do it. It's, it's not, it's not illegal to say absurd things and to make false, you know, or to
make, let's say it's not illegal to make claims that cannot be substantiated. That's, they have
every right to do that. I just feel bad for the people who aren't trained in archaeology, who are
just being duped, who are being duped by this media campaign. This is a little not on the scholarly
path necessarily, but it's more of like a, I guess, an objective
claim of mine and I'd like to get your personal opinion. And that is, for people who claim,
and I used to be this way, I think I was just as fundamentalist, evangelical, I'd have probably
bought this back 12, 13 years ago. For people who claim to be following the truth, this does not
seem to be following that kind of path. Yeah. And this, this is where cognitive dissonance
comes into play and I hate to use big words without explaining them. So I want to explain this.
I was raised and I, there's no secret about this. I talk about this a lot with my audience.
I was raised as what we could say now is, is a fundamentalist Christian. I was raised as a,
as a conservative, uh, confessional person in the churches of Christ. I don't know if you're
familiar with the, with the churches of Christ, the conservative ones. And, and these, these were
good people. They, they loved me. I loved them. It was a good community. Love my parents. Uh,
they raised me with what they knew and I was a good kid and so all that is the disclaimer,
but it was a conservative understanding of the Bible. If the Bible said it, I believe it, that
settles it. I understand where Dr. Stripling is coming from. I lived in that world. I then went
to seminary and did the typical things that you do when you go to seminary. You start asking
questions and you don't get the answers you like. And why does that say this? And, and I, I had the
time to learn my way out of that conservative understanding. Uh, and then I changed a lot of
things going forward. And then I went and, you know, got three masters and a doctorate and
now I'm a critical scholar. I don't buy that, right? You do what the archaeology says. You do
what the science says. You're a critical scholar, not a, a conservative confessional scholar. So I
know that world. So I, I say all that to say, I understand that world. I grew up in it. I grew
up in that world. There's a cognitive dissonance that says everything that I know and that I believe,
and it's not just a belief. It's part of your identity, right? I need to believe this, this
thing over here, because it's who I am. It's what I believe, you know, I believe in God. I believe in,
you know, my political party. I believe in my family. It's, it's, it's part of, it's all woven
together. And then you're faced with information. Your, your, the earth is not flat, right? Or
you're given someone other information. And then you have to try to reconcile two irreconcilable
things. And some people are able to do this for a long time. Most, some people just do it for the
rest of their lives. And we call it cognitive dissonance. They just, they just learn to balance
and wrestle with these two irreconcilable things. And for other people, there comes a point where
they have to make a decision. And I think a lot of people who are in the conservative,
confessional, evangelical, fundamentalist, even camp of Christianity, see things like this and
they go, oh, this is a faithful Christian man. I'm going to believe it. See, finally we found
this evidence. And then when a bunch of, you know, liberal scholars, liberal academics come in and
poo poo it, right? And just dismiss it. They want to lash out and get mad at those guys because,
well, they're just trying to, they hate Jesus, right? They, they hate, but deep down inside,
they're like, I wonder if this, this thing is, is really legit. And that's why I think it's
important to go directly to the public and to say, I'm not calling names. I'm not trying to make fun.
I know your world. I, I, I know how you feel. I felt the same way. Let me tell you what I found,
that there's a, there's a way of looking at these things. And I like to point out the archaeological
discoveries that corroborate the Bible every chance I get. There are lots of them. There are lots of
people doing archaeology in Israel that are discovering things that corroborate, that prove,
let's say, or support the claims made in the Bible. And then there are others that don't. And
that's what I like to do is point out the ones that don't point out the ones that do. And we
have this discussion. This is one of those discoveries that has no business being out there.
There's nothing to this Mount Abal discovery. It's, it's, it's complete bunk. It's, there's
nothing there. This is a PR campaign. And the only way that you're going to expose it is to
continue to shed light on it, to do what you're doing, to do what you're doing is to, to talk to
scholars who are showing a different opinion, who actually know that world and who can say,
I know what you want to believe. I want to believe it too. Man, I want this thing to be real. I
really do, but it's not. It's just not. So to get into the psychology here, if tomorrow we did find
some 1000 year old, 1200, sorry, 1000 BCE, 1200 BCE inscription that had the name Yahoo,
you would be giddy as all get out. You'd be like, Oh my goodness, here's the name of the God, of course,
again, and here we found it in this region. It might uplift what we've had about our ideas of
where Yahweh comes from. I mean, there's a lot of stuff that we're trying to discover. There's
still a huge mystery on ultimately knowing. I know that there's debates is my point on where
Yahoo Yahweh comes from. Is this a Midianite deity that kind of is nomadic that come? What if we
found this inscription of this Yahweh somewhere north or something like, Whoa, what happened?
You know what I mean? You're saying that that would be exciting to you, but the way this has
all gone down is just kind of guilty looking in a way of not fairly doing this the right way.
Correct. I would not only welcome such a discovery, I would make videos about it,
I would championing it, I would try to get interviews with the people. These are my colleagues,
right? These are my, I'm a tenured professor at an R1 research institution, right? I know
all these guys. I know the people out there digging, I've visited their sites, I've dug,
some of them I've dug with, right? If they found something like that, I'd want to,
I'd want to be interviewing them. I'd want to promote them, right? I would want my former
publication, Biblical Archaeology Review, they'd be publishing them, right? All of the newspapers
in Israel, Haaretz and the Times of Israel and J-Post, they would be, I would want that, right?
If it's done properly. We want legitimate discoveries, especially the ones that corroborate
the stuff that's, that's the Bible's claiming. I love that stuff. So it's not that we're just
trying to prove that the Bible's not true, blah, blah. It's not that at all. I want legitimate
discoveries that shed light on the world of the Bible. We all want that. We don't want our false
claims. What we don't want are spurious, spurious claims and bad methodology. And that's what you've
got with this Mount Abal inscription. Again, look at who's supporting it and look at who's either
saying nothing or look at who's talking against it. The only people who are supporting it are people
in that confessional fundamentalist camp. That's the only people. Everyone else is trying to get
some information about it or learn about it. Out in the open media, you're not seeing scholars,
you're not going to see a discussion about this at the SBL, at the National Conference.
You're not going to host a thing on the Mount Abal inscription. It's not a legitimate find.
It's just not. And people just need to understand that.
Bob, I feel like we've covered it. I don't know. There's probably several things you could discuss
about it. Is there anything that comes to mind that you absolutely should get off your chest
about this inscription? I made four videos about it. You can, you know, if you go over to the
excavator YouTube site, you're welcome to go through them. I mean, on one of them, I just take
their picture, the rendering, and I take their scan and I just superimpose them. And I just say,
I keep looking at the camera going, look at this. They don't even, their drawing doesn't
even match their own scan. They're just making this up. And again, I'm not saying that to make
fun of them. I'm not mocking them. I'm not, I'm not trying to. It's just when you go public
with this stuff and you haven't run it through peer review and you haven't asked other scholars,
hey, let's put it this way. When I come up with an idea, right? When I come up with, hey, I think
this is a legit thing. I think I want to, first thing I do is I bring in my grad students and I
say, tell me why I'm wrong. Blow this up. Tell me why I'm wrong. Then I go to my colleagues that I
trust, my closest confidants, and I say, why is this bad? Why is this wrong? I need you to shut
me down. I need you to blow this up. And then if I can't, then I'll propose a paper. Then I'll,
you know, then I'll go to all the scholars at the national conference and I'll say,
here's my idea and I'll get the questions from the people who do not like me, right? Or who don't
like, you know, what angle I'm taking. And I'll get some feedback and then I'll try to publish
this as an article and then I'll get the feedback from the article. That's the proper approach. You
want to go at this negatively, very careful, very methodically. What you don't do is have some claim
that you think fits your theological predisposition and then go straight to the media so that you
can sell tickets and you can recruit people to your seminary and recruit people to come dig with
you. And then you have this happen where, you know, scholars are just shaking their heads or not
responding to you at all. And you just get, you know, basically laughed out of the room, you know,
in this case, out of YouTube. I really appreciate your time today and sharing this. Everyone who's
watching, do yourself a favor and myth vision. Go subscribe to Dr. Cargill's YouTube channel.
It is in the description. Check out his website. Subscribe to the website. I just did this morning
so that I could be notified newsletter of anything that comes up. Is there anything you're working
on right now that you can give us a sneak peek? I have the Bible and Archaeology website, which
we're trying to continue to write. We're trying to put out a new online course based on my book,
Cities of the Bible. I teach that course at Iowa, but we're going to make this available to the public
coming this fall. I have a couple of shows coming out this summer, one on Netflix,
on Holy Relics, which ought to be fun. You can take a guess at which position,
whether I believe in the relics and their power or whether I'm kind of the debunker.
And then I'm on a bunch of more episodes of History's Greatest Mysteries on the History Channel.
I seriously appreciate your time. Everybody subscribe. Go check out the blog. Go check out
his websites. They're all in the description. And I hope to have you back to discuss your books.
They really pique my interest. I love learning about this material and I love the Bible,
actually, just like I love, I mean, I would not say there's one love above the other,
but because I'm so familiar with it, I guess there's this kind of bias there. But I love it
like I would love any ancient history today. And I think my world has expanded like yours.
It was no longer this little bubble that I lived in growing up. It's a much bigger world out there.
And I care about what the Canaanites thought, what they worship, what they believe, what were
their myths, the Egyptians, the Assyrians, the Phoenicians, the Hittites. I'm curious to know
all of these things because it's no longer, in my view, this is the one true only thing. It's
hold on. This is a human experience. Why not learn about humans in general? There's something,
and there's also something in my opinion, by doing that, that knocks down the us-first-them
mentality and we can come together on it. But thank you so much, Bob. I appreciate you.
I'm happy to be here and I share your joy and your desire to learn about our common humanity.
Humans share things in common and it's not an us-first-them. We need to decide the common things
that humans have always wanted, whether it's love or security or just a good life. And that's
what I'm trying to do is show people that there is truly nothing new under the sun and that the
things that people were looking for in antiquity, we're still trying to find today.
Thank you so much and never forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
