Professor James D. Tabor, Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls course, we really hit it off in this last
top four parallels to Jesus and the Dead Sea Scroll community. However, you sent me this list
with four more parallels and I said how did he say those are the top four and then these look
like the top four. I don't know which ones are the top four at this point. Can you help me?
Yeah, I did that on purpose. I do it all the time with my students. You know, here are the top
four, here are the top five and then I go, oh actually, here's some others and I guess we could
vote on them at the end. Everybody that takes the course will decide what are the main connections
or parallels between the Jesus movement and 150 years earlier the Dead Sea Scroll group.
So let's look at another four and Derek, I'm going to back up and say these are the top four,
okay? But I'm not going to say the others weren't the top four. Maybe we're going to have the top
eight for all I know. But anyway, let's take four more. Looking to listen to this, this is amazing.
Last time we did Apocalyptic Messianic, Preparing the Way in the Wilderness in New
Covenant. I mean, who would deny that those are pretty top, right? But listen to these and I'll
give them to you one at a time, Children of Light. When this group writes about themselves and
describes themselves, they use this very unique phrase, Children of Light. They also talk about
Children of Darkness. Now, it kind of, you would think would be a common metaphor in the
Hellenistic Greek Roman Jewish world. It turns out that we don't have parallels to that phrasing
anywhere else. We have rabbinic literature, we have the apocrypha, the pseudepigrapha,
all sorts of Jewish Christian writings. The only other parallel besides the Dead Sea Scroll group
is the Jesus movement. Jesus says in the Gospels to his followers, you are Children of Light,
not Children of Darkness. And just so you know, that's just not a one off thing that never occurs
again. The Apostle Paul years later is writing to his followers and he says, you are the Children
of Light as well, and first Thessalonians, not the Children of Darkness. So this idea of being
of the light, not of the darkness is absolutely core to the two movements. It's a huge parallel,
especially again, like we did in New Covenant last time. It's a huge parallel. These are things
that stand out as unique, like Pharisees and Sadducees, two other groups that we know something about.
They never said we're the Children of Light and you're the Children of Darkness. Now, they
fought like crazy sometimes with one another, but that phrasing is something unique to the Dead Sea
Scroll community and to the Jesus movement used in that way. Now, when they used that, that means
they're a separatist sectarian group, as we usually call it. But if you open up our earliest Gospel,
I'm going to mention the Gospel of Mark again. Many of your viewers took the Mark course and
they know this very well. What is John the Baptist doing as he preaches in the wilderness preparing
the way is to separate out a group of people that are prepared for the end and those who don't
prepare are going to be cast into darkness. I know that's a little rough, but it's all the way
through the Gospels. There's this dichotomy. After all, John says things like this, the axe is laid
at the root of the tree. You picture somebody cutting down a tree and every tree that does not bear
fruit is cut down and cast into the fire. That's our friend John the Baptist preaching out in the
wilderness. So that's certainly a major parallel. But with that, how do you become a child of light?
What do you do? You have to change your inner self. Some people call it conversion, but we use
conversion more today like change religions. But it's the original meaning. It's evangelical. It's
basically the idea that you've heard the good news of the kingdom of God is near and you respond to
it and you repent of your sins. That's how you join the group. And then you undergo an initiation.
They don't call it baptism because that's a Greek word, baptizo. They're writing in Hebrew and
here I'm me. They use a Hebrew word that means to dip or to plunge, to immerse. Immerse is a good
word. So John the baptizer is John the immerser. Well, this group is a water immersing group. They're
very near the River Jordan. They also are at the Dead Sea and you can immerse yourself in the Dead
Sea. I think you've been in the Dead Sea, Derek. You've got to keep your eyes shut, but it qualifies
as ritual purity under the laws of Judaism. Anybody of water in terms of fresh water flowing in,
which happens at the Dead Sea. Also any lake, but you know what you find that where the Dead Sea
scroll group lived and hid their scrolls in the caves around, they have ritual pools of immersion.
They have more than half a dozen of these pools. Some are for collecting water because they're
living in the desert. Huge reservoirs that are many, many feet deep, but also pools with the
steps. They call them step pools that you go down into the water, you immerse yourself and come back
up clean. That is the normal immersion within Judaism. It's called a mikvah. But this immersion
that they talk about in the community rule, that first document that we study in the course,
it talks about people repenting and changing their lives inwardly and then being immersed
in water as an initiation right into the community. There's before that, you're a child of darkness,
you repent of your sins, you come into the group and you become a child of light. So those two kind
of go together, you talk about children of light being immersed in water, joining the group. Now this
group's pretty strict. You don't do this fast. They are very, very rigid with their rules and
their interpretations of the Torah. I'm not going to go into the differences too much because I want
to do the similarities. But you know, Jesus did say in some of our texts, come to me and take
my Yoke upon you, which means my interpretations of the Torah. The rabbis call it the Yoke of the
Torah. You're burying the Torah, you're practicing the Torah, the Jewish law. And he says my Yoke is
easy and my burden is light. Well this group is not easy and their burden is heavy. And in fact,
Jesus probably is aware of this group because they last right up through his life until the
destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD. And we're going to point out all these similarities, but remember
we're also going to do a comprehensive study and point out the differences. But the fact that you
get in the group by immersion, you become a child of light, that's the parallel. Now here's a huge one.
Maybe we should make this number one. At the end we can discuss what's number one.
They follow a teacher and they call him the teacher, capital T, and he's called the usually
translated in English teacher of righteousness. But you know what it really means? The true teacher,
the unique teacher, the right teacher, not one of those other teachers that would lead you astray.
So this group believes their teacher is the one to listen to. Get these texts all the way through
the New Testament. Christians today read them as if it's about salvation and heaven and kind of the
Christian faith. But this is a Jewish thing. When Jesus claims to be the way and the truth
and the light of the world, you see that he's using this language from the Dead Sea Scrolls.
And so the teacher that they follow, they believe is the right teacher as well. But once again,
he's 150 years, give or take a few years ahead of the time of Jesus. What do they say about him?
Here's the main thing they say about him, that you will be saved, saved in the day of God's judgment
by your faith and the teacher of righteousness. They actually say that. And by your suffering.
Talk about a parallel, to have faith in your teacher. And then they further say in the scrolls,
this is in the Habakkuk, the book Habakkuk in the Hebrew Bible, they write a commentary on it,
and they explain all the things that they think it means for their day and their time. And they
talk about the teacher coming and they say to him, God has revealed all the mysteries of the prophets.
And you go to the New Testament. And what does Jesus say in several of the Gospels?
It is written of me. And he gives these interpretations of prophecies,
like in the Gospel of Luke chapter four, he reads it takes from Isaiah 61. And then he says,
this day, this is fulfilled. Now, whether that's a historical Jesus or not, whether it's what
Jesus followers said, he said, we don't have to worry about that in this course. We're not trying
to separate what is the historical Jesus and what it isn't. What we're saying is we have literature
from the Jesus movement in our New Testament Gospels. And we have literature from the Dead Sea
Scroll group in our scrolls. And they're both describing their views and ideas about their
teacher. And it's very, very similar. They also say, and this will really blow you away,
our teacher is a prophet like Moses, a prophet like Moses. How can you have a prophet like Moses?
Dr. Tabor, wait, as you were talking about the teacher like Moses, you had fireworks,
literally just glowed. I saw that and I thought you did it. No, I was not getting me. But what is
not playing, I'm not pulling like that literally randomly just happened.
Derek, I think you're kidding me. I'm not. I swear it happened to me once before. It was not a
dramatic moment. And I think it might have to do with these programs and the way my voice kind of
maybe bellowed out or something. I don't know. But I think it was a sound thing. Maybe
you're using StreamYard. Maybe StreamYard does that. I don't know. Maybe you're a prophet like Moses.
I don't know. I'm just, you know, that was pretty cool though. I believe that and people will enjoy
that. Okay, I swear we did not do that. When I saw it, I kept talking, but I thought, what is Derek
doing? And Derek's saying, you know, what is Tabor doing? Well, okay, it was perfect. A prophet
like Moses. What's a prophet like Moses? Someone who brings the covenant to the people of Israel
and the Hebrew Bible. So if there's going to be another prophet like Moses, which Deuteronomy 15
can be understood to mean, and we go to the New Testament and you go to the book of Acts chapter
seven and Stephen is preaching. Remember the first Christian martyr, so-called, I say so-called
Christian because I think they're all Jews as followers of Jesus at this point. I mean,
they're still part of Judaism interpreting the faith in terms of Judaism. And what does he say?
God says that he'll bring a prophet like Moses and this Jesus is that prophet. And we open up the
Dead Sea Scrolls and they're also thinking their teacher is a new Moses. And I really think that's
a major parallel. So that's three. I'm going to add here a fourth. Might not seem as dramatic. I
don't know if I'll get the fireworks and the stars on this one. Maybe we will. But they talk a lot
about the Holy Spirit. Not just the Holy Spirit is out there or there might be a Holy Spirit or
there was a Holy Spirit. They believe that the Holy Spirit is with them. They call it the Spirit
of Holiness. And when they're meeting in their camps and in their assembly halls, you've been
to Qumran, you've been in the assembly hall, Derek. That is a sacred place, not like a church,
but it's the assembly, the people that make it sacred. And they believe that the Holy Spirit is
just hovering over the group. And remember in the New Testament, Paul talks about when you get
together and the Spirit of the Lord is with you and my spirit is with you. This group had that
kind of spirituality. I'll close with this in terms of these other four. I'm going to still call them
the top four. So maybe we'll have the top eight, but these top four that we've covered just now,
there's a prayer and it's at the end of the community rule. And I just want to show you the
level of feeling that they close their document with the rule of their community. Here's how it
starts. Before I move my hands and feet, O Lord, I praise you. So you see, it reads in a very devotional
way. And then it goes on for about two pages. And you could take it right out of the book of
Psalms or something like that. So they truly, truly believe that they're the true people,
that they're the remnant, the children of light, their teacher is the true teacher. Before the
Dead Sea Scrolls were discovered, we didn't know the details about this group. Josephus doesn't
tell us that they had a teacher that they thought was like Moses, who is going to bring this new
covenant. He doesn't use children of light. And all of these things, he presents some more as a
philosophical group, like the Thethagoreans, because he wants to impress his Roman readers.
But here we're getting the actual writings of the group itself, the inside of the group.
And this is what we cover in the course. So whether you have four, whether you have eight,
maybe we can find some more. But I'm telling you, when we tick these off, we're talking about
big, major points. And I'm going to say again, none of the other Jewish groups of the period that
we know about shared any of these characteristics that I've mentioned so far. I think that makes
them stand out. And when the Dead Sea Scrolls were discovered in 1947, and up through the 1950s,
there was a lot of nervousness about this, because the original editors and readers of the scrolls
could see these parallels, even in the very first scroll they began to examine the community rule.
And they wondered, is this a precursor of the Jesus movement, or what's going on here? And I
think the fear was that it would rob Christianity of its uniqueness. And I know some people take it
that way. They say, well, what's the big deal about Jesus? There were other movements like that.
Well, not many. I don't know of any except this one. But it doesn't rob the Jesus movement of its
uniqueness. Here's why. What it shows you is that the Jesus movement flows out of the same milieu,
out of the same culture, out of the same political and economic and social situation.
And the Jesus movement, like the Dead Sea Scroll Group, is waiting for God to intervene,
to send the Messiahs to bring about the Kingdom of God, and to overthrow the Romans.
So, to me, it just makes that period of history all the more interesting to know the parallels
that existed in this prayer group. I hope we can have everybody watching go sign up,
check out the course. What do you think of these parallels? Which ones do you think are the most
significant to you? Which one would you rank? I'm curious to know in the chat, down in the
conversation in the comment section. But also, let us know if you signed up. Give us a shout out.
Let us know what you think of the course. I think it's super high quality. We're also having a Zoom
call coming up. So, I'm going to be there. You're going to be there, James. And we get to dive deep
and have conversations with students who sign up for this. You know what we should do, Derek.
I just thought of this. Here's what we should do. For the first Zoom meeting, we should have people
send in their list of the top four, because we're going to actually, we should let out the secret.
We might find another four, Derek, or even another four after that. Well, however many we find,
we should have the students send in emails before the meeting and give us their list.
And we can compile the list and kind of announce the winner. Wouldn't that be cool? That would be
all the people that take the course. And, you know, most of the people signing up for your courses.
They've studied religion and the Bible and Christianity and Judaism and the Hebrew Bible
and everything for years. Many of them have been in movements and churches and groups and
organizations. So it would really be interesting to take a kind of a poll and see, okay, you've
studied all these, you're going to get all of the main characteristics. What do you think is the big
one, the explosive one? I've already got one in my head, but I'm going to keep an open mind.
And I'd love to hear from all the students. That would be really cool. And maybe we can
make those fireworks go off again. Looking forward to it. Thank you so much, James.
Thank you, Derek. Good to be with you.
