but that doesn't tell you that it's more than merely alive.
You can say the word spiritual, this just leads to a bunch of confusion,
because there's this kind of weird property dualism that arises in the...
in the sequelae of supposing that there are spirits, or souls.
And whatever's actually going on doesn't seem property dualistic to me.
I can't say what it does seem, primarily because our fucking catalog of categories
is missing fundamentally crucial position, like tags.
For example, a tag that means more than merely alive,
but for generative of beings' life and minds,
actively holy, or actively divine,
originary, we need some placeholders for these kinds of things,
these kinds of qualities, characteristics.
But even the idea of characteristics, even the idea of language and its nominata
already inclines us to error, because the transcendental is beyond abstract reference.
That's the problem, you know.
If we had a category that implied to us that it was beyond...
that the reference in this category are beyond abstract reference,
you can see that there's already a problem,
because now we're going to refer to them abstractly in language.
We think we can encompass them if we just make the right shape of category.
Well, what if it's not true?
What if there's some things that language just fails to point toward,
or misleads us when it does?
What if the goal isn't to refer to things,
but to actually reacquire the direct experience of original participation
in the sense that Owen Barfield may have meant it,
and in the sense that I was implying when I talked about what I strongly suspect happened
to ancient peoples when they looked at the sky, or a mountain, or a lake.
They didn't see things.
They immediately felt the transformation of their consciousness in a transcendental way
into them above their mere humanity, into direct filial, memorial, and visceral participation.
The same way as when you jump into a lake of water,
you slide down an ice sheaf, or you bungee jump into a crevasse, this kind of thing.
If it is impossible, you can make face noises about the flavors of food.
Will you be able to taste the face noises? No.
There might be unusual humans who have forms of sensorial memory,
or if I suggest the word strawberry, they begin to taste it,
as if the memory of strawberry is in their mouth or something.
