But not me. You can talk about apples all you like.
I will not be able to taste the flavor of apples.
Can I be hypnotized or entranced to think I am tasting apples? Possibly.
Will I actually taste them? Seems wildly unlikely to me.
So I suspect that when the ancients looked up at the sky, and I have reason to suspect this,
not just from thought, not just theorizing, but from my own direct experience,
when they looked at the sky, it was like diving into an immediate relationship
with the spirit of time-space, origin.
And so they did not so much have superstitions.
Their religions were not superstitious.
What their religions were doing, the Egyptians and the Aztecs and people who came before them,
what they were doing is they were making images of beings and situations they directly knew,
participatorially, in their relationships with the world, the sky, origin, the sun, the moon, the planets.
Much as a solo diver, for example, might represent dolphins, whales, octopuses, coral reefs, shellfish,
crayfish, lobsters, clams, shrimp, cuttlefish, squid, fishes of every kind, sea anemones, sea urchins.
When we look at the effusive, you know, what we think of as symbolism of the Egyptians,
rather than thinking, oh, they were very inventive, we should think perhaps,
they're actually telling us something about their direct experience of the features of character and relation
they directly encountered in exploring time-space by diving into it, participatorially,
just as if they could rise up off the earth, just as if they could fall into the sky.
They could dive into the sky the same way we dive into the ocean.
And they didn't need spaceships because they had something better.
I mean, spaceships really suck. If you got to have those, time-space is terrible for that.
They had something better. They had what I would call a traveling body, which I believe we all have.
We're just trained not to think so and not to believe in it and so forth.
And I think the traveling body was naturally awakened in them when they gazed skyward.
And so then, from that perspective, they may have understood that earth was a planet,
having looked back upon it from a disembodied traveling perspective of a far above the earth.
So I suspect that humans had seen the earth from space long before the American astronauts
or the Soviet astronauts went up there.
And these are some of my thoughts on what is the earth and many related ideas.
Again, I'm so grateful for our time together today and the fact that we're all still alive
and can attempt meaningful anemnesis about what it means to be human, to be alive,
to participate in physical reality and to think in new and hopefully liberating ways that result in education rather than merely education.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
Bye-bye for now. May your way be beautiful.
