in terms of the developmental history of our species, everyone probably had an idea of home. This is the world, quote-unquote, but that didn't necessarily mean a planet, and this is our world, the territory between these three mountains and those two rivers, for example.
Inclusive of this, that, and the other thing, is our home, and, you know, most of the humans thought, it seems, many of them anyway, that they were the original people.
So, we are not a people, and the article matters here, we are the people, we are the people.
And this is clear from anthropological research, which is not always accurate and is often misconstrued by those researchers that compose the perspectives and write about them for, you know, academic purposes and so forth.
Yeah, these matters are very murky. What is a world? Did they understand planets? It seems very clear that people like the Dogon, who appear to have had contact with some form of non-human intelligence, were aware that there are planets, and that this is a planet, and there were stars,
and that a particular star was the home of sky people, and they knew essentially impossible things about that star. For example, they knew, I believe, that it was a binary, which is impossible to detect without, you know, really advanced mathematical knowledge and telescopes and things.
They knew that the star had a planet, which is impossible to detect, I think.
So, there were ancient peoples who might have been aware of the idea of a planet, but what it meant to them is very difficult to understand, and it seems impossible that it could have meant what we think of as a planet.
In fact, it's similarly impossible that they would imagine space, or space-time, in the abstract way we do, thinking of it, for example, as a vacuum populated by a variety of celestial objects.
I.e. things, right?
So, we'd have to go sort of people by people, and time by time, to gain any reasonable understanding, and even then it would be difficult, especially if there were no written records.
We would only have their traditional knowledge to depend on, which in some cases is relatively reliable and a few thousand years old, and in other cases is not very reliable, and in some other cases is much older, twenty, ten, twenty thousand years old.
So, it would be very difficult to understand what they thought about stars and planets, and it's probably not true that they were animists in the senses that we think about animism.
Because for us, animism is a weird thing. It's like you get rid of the qualities of being in beings, and situations, and circumstances, and so forth. You throw that all away, and you re-add it in a sort of panpsychic gesture.
So, because we start out from the abstract and we re-add it, there would be impossible for these older peoples to have thought abstractly about beings' places.
Mountains were not necessarily gods, but in nearly no case was it possible that they weren't. They didn't have at least the status of beings, and probably the status of something we don't have a category for.
And this is the category that I use the word transentience to point at. It is more than a being. It is a progenitor of beings. Without this, there is no beings. Without this, there are no minds.
The sun and the world clearly belong to this class. The only category we really have in English that points this way that nominates the sun, the moon, and the earth to such a status would be god, a god.
And so we have these weird ideas of Gaia and stuff.
But these ideas mostly only come to us, not necessarily from ancient peoples, from modern anthropologists painting things onto perspectives they were exposed to, in living with and communicating with older peoples.
And so it's very difficult for us moderns, especially those of us who speak English, and don't speak an indigenous language. That duck tried to eat the butterfly. That's hilarious.
I don't know why that's hilarious. I just find it hilarious. It's not innately hilarious. It just reminds me of certain comic strips.
So yeah, we unfortunately come, we learn about a world of things through the language that we speak.
And initially these things are deprived of beingness, of originness, of uniterity, of ultimacy, meaning not merely ordinary, not a thing, can't be a thing, unthingness.
Prioritized above all language concepts and so forth, ultimacy, and uniterity meaning not a separate subject of discernment or distinguishing, but rather an instance of the entire history and future of everything.
An instance. I think Alan Watts once said something resembling in the same way an apple tree could be said to verb, right, it apples.
Meaning the constant production and appalling of the tree. In the same way the apple tree apples, the world persons, right, the world just produces these myriad forms of beings, including apple trees.
As an expression of its own nature, history, origin, purpose of expression, and so forth.
So what is the world? Well, it's not a what. One way to answer the question is, or one way to respond to the question is, without the world, izzings, izzises, don't exist.
There are no izzings. And izzings are being as this moment, present being-ness, the doing of being by being. Clearly the waterfowl agree with me.
I think it's very obvious. Yes, of course this is so. But the world is the precursor to the possibility of things like beings and minds and relationships and circumstances and so forth.
And it's also the peculiar stage for what we refer to with the word consciousness without very well understanding what that might mean or what we mean by that.
Unless we suppose, see this is the problem. In English these things are additive. It is as if when we say you are conscious, we are adding a property to a container when nothing like that is even possibly going on except in language.
There's no chance that language is the possession of a container. No chance.
If anything, it's the natural expression of communal origination, futurity, relation in and as a localized exemplar of transcendent hyper-systems that produce things like time-space, galaxy stars, black holes, white holes, quasars, pulsars.
Nebula, moons, the keeper belt, ice chunks, comets, meteors, all of these celestial beings.
So these are exemplars of an originary pulse that we refer to often as the primary miracle in science.
What? Cosmology, scientific cosmology. The miracle we call the, as if there's only one, Big Bang, which implies some kind of, you know, ah, it's got soaked. Well, I got wet actually, not soaked.
