what space is, what planets and stars are, what celestial phenomena are.
I'm watching a turtle swimming in a pond with some carp that are all sunning themselves in the heat of the day.
And I strongly suspect that spacetime is much more like this lake than a void populated with objects.
It is a transcendental medium populated with transcendental phenomena.
And in case you don't believe me, just take a look at the photographs of that stuff.
Take a look at Jupiter. Does that look like an ordinary thing to you?
Take a look at the star birth nebula or the crab nebula or the butterfly nebula or a quasar or a pulsar.
Do you think those are ordinary material phenomena?
Really? Where did you get that idea?
Because they sure don't look that way to me and neither does the moon nor the sun.
I admit that the moon looks desert-like and bereft of what we would think of as vitalistic phenomena.
It kind of looks like what it actually reminds me of is something like the idea of the extremely elder, brilliant, rich crone.
But I definitely do think of the moon as feminine and the sun as masculine.
I'm capable of inverting those perspectives.
And I know that there are cohorts of moderns who would want to take me to task for thinking that there's anything like binary gender.
Be my guests. Let's have at it.
I'm going to stay on the side of binary gender.
And beyond that, again, this isn't one thing mined because I don't think there's merely binary gender.
I just think that conceptually, symbolically, and metaphysically, the concept of binary gender is crucially important and not to be disposed of for political or ideological purposes.
Expanded? Sure.
And possibly even contradicted for specific purposes.
But I want, in my cosmology, binary gender is actual.
It's not the only game in town, but it's real enough.
And again, you know, in...
Alright, somebody's counting and it's fucking up my mind.
We can have a number of different templates, but I'm not going to dispose of the one that seems to me foundational.
And in Blackfoot, I would be surprised if the concept of gender is merely binary.
I did have some discussions with Ryan about this a long time ago.
I think there's an essay on my medium page regarding this.
But it's not my goal to explore that particular topic here.
Rather, I'm trying to say something about the character...
My experience of the character and influence and profundity, and perhaps even facundity of the moon, which I do think of as feminine.
And I also think of the Earth as feminine.
You know, if you ask me, like, well, why would you do that?
Because the Earth appears to generate children.
And in my private cosmology, which I'm not trying to convince anyone of,
I'm not asking anyone else to believe or think the same way I do about these topics.
If it's useful, entertain it. If it's not, do as you will.
