Um, I don't know, for those of us, uh, periodically minded, it implies that something was, having it on with something else and then it blew up and then stars and, you know, time-space and all that, uh, comes out of the, the excasm.
Yeah, that's the Give Me One Miracle branch of cosmology. Give Me One Miracle and I'll explain everything else.
Um, the thing about science though is that it's not fundamentally explanatory. It's fundamentally utilitarian for most human purposes. There are exceptions. And by utilitarian, I mean, it forges theories, puts those theories in combat against each other in a kind of rock, paper, scissors.
That's the thing. And then the ones that win, propagate, and then we make machines to both test and implement physical observations and, uh, mostly, like, physics is a lot about prediction, right?
What, what happens next? Given X, Y, and Z, um, and some other variables, what, what do they tell me how the system will evolve and the better your story about how it evolves, the more accurate we presume the theory to be.
Um, but I'm not really here to talk about that. So what is the world? Well, again, the question's kind of ridiculous.
Because without the world, there are no questions, right?
So one of the things that is around here and for us is the moment to moment origin of the possibility of purposeful thought, relation, conception, nomenclature, theories, and so forth.
You can see that it doesn't fit inside the category tree because the category tree doesn't exist without it. It's very similar with the sun.
Let's, let's take that thing away. Poof. Right? All human thought, history, experience, religion, math, science, art, insanity, war, everything. Gone. Poof. Gone. Meaningless.
So, obviously the sun must be held in an extremely specialized, uh, perspective, categorically, where it, it's an exemplar of supercategory, beyond categories.
Because without it you don't get minds. Without minds, categories don't matter anymore.
So this is why I think stars and planets and moons and things are transcendental.
And I tend to, um, concern myself somewhat with what that means and how to better understand it, even conceptually.
But the, the idea for me is that the idea that I usually play with here, I can play with others, is that one must preserve much like Gidellian incompleteness in mathematical systems.
Ha! Just got wet again. Um, one must preserve the super, super categorical character, necessity of transcendentals that by their existence create the possibility of thought.
Um, we mustn't subsume those into the conceptual systems in an ordinary fashion. Uh, especially if we are concerned about the verity of our rationales.
Um, rational meaning to make parts of, uh, to both distinguish and connect, to denote and connotate these distinguishings and connections.
Of course the connotation thing is more like dreaming than logic. The denotation thing is more like logic than dreaming.
So, for me, also what I wanted to say is that for some indigenous peoples, um, the sun and the earth were well known to be beings.
For example, I suspect this is what my friend, Ryan Firstdiver, uh, who I strongly recommend you look up his YouTube channel.
Um, brilliant. One of the last remaining Blackfoot Beaver men, um, one of my closest friends, and, uh, one of my favorite teachers.
By the way, don't be fooled by Ryan's external cultural costume. Um, you know, he may listen to rap music and, uh, scrap with, uh, the superficial culture and its icons and so forth.
Inside that human being is a profoundly deep, uh, intelligence. A brilliant writer. Um, one of the most heartful people I've ever known.
Again, looks tough on the outside, soft as soft can be in his heart, loves the animals, the living places, honors the old agreements to the best of his ability, rescues the animals from the humans.
Um, very much a heroic being in my view.
Ryan, I think, would say that although the sun and the moon are understood in Blackfoot traditional culture as sky persons or something like this, persons of the sky.
Um, as are the Morning Star and the Companion Star, the False Morning Star, which is what we call Jupiter.
Uh, though those are sky people, and they were here once. They've been, they've come down to the Earth, and they still come down to the Earth to visit and communicate and transact with humans who get their attention.
Um, and there are various ways to acquire their attention, which is also a fairly dangerous thing, you know, project to undertake.
But although they are the sky people, the Earth is like the Hogan, right, or the, not necessarily the teepee, but like the communal home of the sun and the moon.
Um, where perhaps, this is my own edition, don't quote me on this, uh, their children live, perhaps.
Um, and there are old stories where they were here together on the Earth. They had children, I believe, seven, particularly, which would be hard to not imagine corresponds to the planets.
Um, all of those beings lived here, and the traditional story, um, the moon, uh, takes a lover, the sun becomes incensed, haha, what a pun, at this, because the sun can smell, can smell the lover around the house.
And then there's a huge fight. The moon goes insane and becomes a sort of like a banshee-like monster that is chasing them, and the sun gives each of the children a pouch in which there is a power of protection, and the sun, I mean, the moon hunts them.
This is a very abbreviated version of the story. Uh, eventually, there's a sort of day-n-maw, I think, a climax where, um, the sun, or one of the children, I can't remember, cuts off one of the moon's legs, and the moon bleeds,
and then the moon goes up into the sky, and this is a explanatory figure, literally a figure, or a ceremonial, you know, traditional story figure, that explains the moon's, um, cycling.
Uh, what's going on is that the leg is being cut off, and then regrown, uh, over the lunar cycle.
