Then, of course, they all go back up into the sky. Now, the thing that is clear is that those planets are not objects, and the moon is not an object.
It's unclear what category they belong to. It isn't gods, but it's certainly both inclusive of humanity and transcendental to it at the same time.
As I understand from Ryan, the Blackfoot people, generally, traditionally, do not believe in the idea of the transmigration of souls or the existence of souls.
Um, there is sort of such a thing as a ghost, in a way, but it's not the same concept.
In fact, the whole foundation of categories and concepts in Blackfoot is fundamentally different, and one might even say, in a sense, not translatable, to the western, uh, templates of identity, um, abstraction, function, role, circumstance, situation, relationship,
and so forth. For one thing, uh, it seems to me from what I've learned that, and I'm happy to be corrected about any of this, by the way.
I'm not an expert on any of these matters. I've just been lucky enough. I'm like a kid who got some mud splashed on him, right?
And I'm like, oh, this mud is very interesting. But I don't really know. I didn't grow up in the mud, um, so to speak.
Uh, but, you know, like, identity is rarely explicit, uh, in Blackfoot traditional culture.
Because we don't know moment to moment whether the appearance of someone or something is the most important feature to attend.
So I may see someone coming from far off. Ah, there is a being, I might say.
As they get closer, I may see certain signs that they belong to a specific people or place. Ah, they are a, uh, a blood tribe man appearing on a horse, appearing, right?
But they, that's not necessarily that I know it's a blood tribe man. All I know is that there are signs that it's a blood tribe man.
Because that could be the sun. That could be anyone. It depends sort of on who they come from. Like, who is being represented by the being who is coming.
And as they approach closer and closer, there are different linguistic forms to treat with the situation as, as we get closer to something resembling, uh, denotative identity.
Ah, this is indeed, you know, uh, the man whose indigenous name is thus and such, or the woman whose indigenous name is thus and such.
And it is indeed that she represents, you know, her people and her tribe and herself.
But it's possible for there to be lots of other outcomes. And this is something that in English is, is not understood.
When we see Joe, we think, oh, that's Joe, end of story. Which really almost can't be true because there's so many phase states of Joe and so many purposes for which Joe might be here or not here,
or, or arriving or departing or all of these things that we don't pay much attention to in terms of identity in English.
And we should because there are crucial features of understanding, role, identity, relationship, origin, future, futurity, ultimacy, all of these things, right?
You know, I heard a story, uh, that was claimed. And, you know, once again, it's not my, it's not my goal here to say, oh, this is a true story, or this is not a true story.
What I am saying here is that in the sense of theoria, a useful story, a useful perspective, this perspective is useful.
I heard a story where a man claimed to have been working at a secret government installation. He had disguised his voice to tell the story.
I have also heard that the story was somehow debunked. I don't care. I don't care because I'm not trying to tell the truth.
I'm trying to, uh, illumine a perspective that I think is important and useful.
So in this story, um, it was claimed that each of the planets that we know of, that we exist in a specific layer of a multi-layered reality.
And in our layer, the earth, is the primarily inhabited planet, the, um, biorelational hyperstructure in the solar system.
Um, it was not clear whether the other planets presently have life or not.
But it was claimed that in other, there's a layer in which every planet in the solar system is inhabited.
Uh, and from this one, it looks like earth is the only one. There are layers in which the earth is not inhabited.
And the other planet, another planet is inhabited or another couple of planets are inhabited.
Um, and not necessarily by life as we suppose it must exist.
And this is a very interesting story because I had been shown something similar to this.
Uh-huh. A perspective in which, um, what looks like craters on worlds in this layer are actually cities in other layers.
Now this is very science fiction-y and I'm not trying to claim it's true.
I'm claiming that it's a useful perspective to entertain in consciousness.
Um, why is it useful?
