Well, it draws into question the strange, unjustifiable certainties that we are, that are imposed upon us.
Uh, oh, that's really interesting. I was wondering what is underneath these radish plants and what is underneath them are roots, not radishes.
You know, think about the difference between, think that you don't, you haven't seen people gardening or growing food, right?
And you come across some plants and you look at the surface of the plants and you see the leaves and the, you know, the stems and things.
And you think, well, that doesn't look edible.
Well, you're probably right. It's not particularly edible and or nutritious.
But then, under the ground, where you are not looking yet, there are radishes and potatoes and carrot symptoms.
And it is similar in reality, right? The superficial appearances and the expectations imposed on us in English are not indicative of the character of nature or origin or reality, whatever reality might mean.
And that also presumes that, you know, I am disinclined personally to believe that observation causes wave collapse and other seemingly ridiculous to me stories.
I just don't believe it.
I think something's going on and something probably very fascinating is going on, but it isn't that.
I certainly also don't believe that if I turn away from a tree and I'm not observing it directly, it's not there.
No, there's no chance that that's going on, as far as I'm concerned.
I'm willing to entertain the idea in discussion and so forth, of course.
But do I think it's a reasonable or rational idea? Hell no!
You know, I have friends that think, when you stop looking at things, they're not there anymore.
I'm like, well, that's kind of a problem because that would mean that you're a highly privileged observer.
It would mean that your cells aren't observers simply because they don't have eyes.
So your cells can't tell that the oven behind you is now missing from reality.
And none of the insects or other animals or plants qualify as observers.
This is the problem I have with, like, if a tree falls in the forest, you know, there's no one there to hear it as it makes sound.
Forest is filled with living beings.
Well, maybe the human concept of sound, if there's no humans there, it's unreasonable to say that the human concept of sound pertains to what then occurs.
But forest is filled with living beings, and I'm pretty sure they experience vibrations in the air.
And many of them have actual ears, you know, and all of them have cells that can detect vibration.
And some of them have specialized structures like antennae and things like this that can detect all kinds of things, probably.
So the idea that the human is the ultimately privileged observer that causes wave collapse is fucking insane.
I just don't believe it.
And, you know, convince me, right?
If you want to have an argument about this, my one friend, Sebastian, I know, wants to argue about this with me.
By all means, let's have an argument and we'll debate the problem.
I think, again, you have the same problem as you have with statements that encompass their own origin here.
There's some kind of a recursion problem in this argument that I can find, but I need someone to make a relatively clear claim that I can then refute first.
I could do it myself, but that would be tedious and reminiscent of onanism, intellectual onanism.
So what are the planets?
Like, what is time space?
Well, the, almost all the, I mean, this is a question that has, that I've been in love with for a long, long time.
When ancient people looked at the sky, what, what did they experience?
