Hello everybody. Welcome.
So grateful to have this time together while we are all still alive here on Earth.
A planet that I profoundly adore and deeply believe in the beingness of, you know,
the idea that Earth is a being is probably both very old and also not as universal as
we might imagine. It's hawk time here.
Hawkeye in the sky circling in another one or two. One in a tree being harassed by a stellar's jay in an example of an ancient symbiosis, not merely enmity.
Hawk is not merely the enemy of the Corvid because they inform each other's intelligences and developmental arcs, evolutionary arcs.
What may superficially appear to be enmity or competition, you know, is never merely the one valued delusion
that language and modern human culture are likely to presume, suppose, impose on our thought through various games in language and so forth.
In fact, all relationships and all subjects of nomenclature, all, they called, it'll come to me, all nomenada.
Nomenada are those things toward which language points our attention, concern, or capacity to distinguish.
And that English part has a lot in common with the idea of extinguishing and what gets extinguished. The unity and the infinite valued situation that we find ourselves in when considering in consciousness the identities or properties or qualities of beings,
circumstances and relationships. We should learn and remind each other to be extremely suspicious of any one valued kind of polemic or dialectic.
The idea that that is a tree and that is only a tree is ridiculous, insulting, stupidifying.
The woman was saying, where we're going, where we're going, you have a choice. And then she began to enumerate the different restaurants.
But notice how she said, I noticed, how she said, you have a choice, the singular, you have a choice. As if, you know, you either have a choice or no choice.
And so if you don't have no choices, you have a choice. And this is one of the common debilitating identity games that underlie English and that get imported into consciousness smuggled in when we learn English in the milieu of
native speakers of this language, which is not merely colonial and colonizing, yet has these qualities and histories associated with it.
So back to the earth as a being, you know, some indigenous, for example, some for example, indigenous cultures do not see the earth as a being.
And it's not clear which cultures were aware of the idea of a planet at all, and when this idea may have arisen in any culture we may direct our attention towards.
It does seem a multibird goose attack. The male is angry. The neck is all craned over and he's ready to do the I'm going to bite you bit.
To the other words. And this one appears to have possibly suffered some kind of a neck attack, but maybe not.
So, you know, we have these weird ideas, and they seem entirely ordinary to us, at least since Galileo, the idea that this is a solar system in a galaxy in a universe that space is mostly empty, that planets are objects, not beings.
When in fact, more than likely, the, not more than likely, almost certainly, the planets are not merely not inert, and they are not merely beings.
They are, perhaps, and I think it's very likely, they are transcendental forms of which the physical aspect is the minimal component of the form, much like humans and what we think of as souls or our spirits.
You know, as a regular everyday human being, your body seems to be what you are. You are your body, and so you experience threats to your body as if they are threats to you, fundamentally, because you don't have an experience,
maybe you don't have an experience of being, but not being, your body.
I remember seeing a cartoon yesterday of someone sitting up in bed, and the cartoon was entitled, In the Body Experience, instead of out of body, in of body experience.
But you know, many of us have had the experience of being outside our body, of having our perspective and perception located in space distinctly from where our body is.
Very common that this turns out, relatively common, that this turns out to be the upper left hand corner of the room, as it might be perceived relational to our body.
And that upper left thing is kind of interesting, because it implies right hemispheric stuff going on.
Now, some people will say, particularly materialists, physicalists, especially eliminative materialists, that that's just an illusion.
But such people will also say that the mind with which they are forming that conclusion is illusory, not understanding that their argument undermines their argument.
If your mind is merely an illusion, and if illusions are that which is not real, or does not correspond to reality in some way, is not veritical, then there's no reason to impose validity on any assertion that can be made by such a mind, including the assertion that the mind is illusory, or consciousness is illusory.
Or an epiphenomenon of brain function, or et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
Many ridiculous arguments suffer from declarative self-inclusion, where if the argument is taken seriously, it naturally undermines itself according to the principles of set theory.
Because by including its origin in the proclamation, i.e. minds are just an illusion, well, the thing that you're making the statement with, and the thing you're interpreting the statement with, not to mention the thing that causes you to believe the statement to be valid, you've just rendered all of these untrustworthy in a fundamental way.
So, you know, I can imagine, to go back to the Earth as a being thing, that it's not clear who knew ideas about planets and stars and so forth, and when some people or group or culture or cohort knew these things,
