So the Earth is sort of, in my weird cosmology, an ever-virginal mother that generates infinite kinds of children.
And by the magical fertilization of the sun and time space.
So it lives in a kind of ocean, floats in the ocean, like a big bathtub,
orbited by the moon, who is sort of a fairy godmother in this cosmology.
And we can have more than one.
Fertilized by the rays of light originating in the sun,
which actually probably originates somewhere else than the sun,
and the sun is an expression of this property or potential...
Excuse me.
...of originary and fertilizing power.
Again, I'm not asking anyone to adopt my cosmology.
But this is how I usually prefer to think,
unless I am entertaining another perspective for purposes of conversation or exploration.
And look, I didn't invent this cosmology.
This is a cosmology that was transmitted to me.
And this is the reason why I find it compelling.
Because it wasn't invented by humans.
It's a knowledge way that comes from non-humans.
And it wasn't explicitly delineated in the way language makes it sound.
Rather, it was suggested as a useful perspective to entertain.
So is the earth a thing?
Well, in language, you can think of it that way.
It's going to be unfortunate.
The repercussions that will happen if you believe that.
That it's just an object.
But in English language, sure.
As you approach the direction of conceptual correspondence with the real, the beautiful, or the true,
it quickly becomes impossible that the earth is a thing.
It becomes quickly impossible that the earth is not at least a being,
and probably something transcendental to beings,
that produces beings perhaps as a kind of side effect
of its nature, identity, relations, and activity
in a multi-layered universe that's quite different
from our relatively mechanistic suppositions about time-space.
Because in the actual universe, everything is more than merely alive.
And we don't have, if there's a concept in English for more than merely alive,
I'd love to know what that is.
The only word I can easily locate in my vocabulary is transcendental,
