What did they think that was if they thought it was something?
And, you know, I would argue that probably they were far less conceptual than we are.
So it's not like they're trying to think, what is that?
That's very conceptual.
Rather, they are probably having an experience more like diving into water, where suddenly every, when you look up at the night sky, the universe changes.
You change, everything changes, and you are aware in a participatory sense of the nature of the sky,
of its status as ultimate progen, I can't make this word, I can't make this tense of the word, progenerative, right?
It is that from which all things derive their being, parental or hyper parental, filial, this is my family, and these are not thoughts.
They are experienced viscerally, emotionally, cognitively, in a way not dissimilar to what happens when we dream, right?
One thing you're not really doing much of when you're dreaming, otherwise you're either going to wake up or become lucid, is thinking.
You're experiencing the relationships, the situations, the exchanges, and so forth, the transformations.
You're not thinking about them.
If you start thinking about them, you're going to wake up.
And if you think about them very gently, you will then realize you are dreaming.
As I did the other night when I found myself in my dad's father's garage, and I knew that this was impossible because the house has been sold,
and those objects that I were seeing had all been disposed of.
I knew, like, okay, right now I'm seeing something that it can't be true.
It can't be there.
I'm definitely not seeing what I'm actually where I am, right?
And so what I suspect very strongly, and I think that this experience is directly accessible to us, is that when the ancients looked at the sky,
it was a bit like diving into the water of originary transcendents.
And this is why they revered it.
He knows hotels and warm cafes. He knows everyone.
I love it when I see... I mean, I guess I just love being itself, but I love the animated...
when I see animated enthusiastic conversation among human companions.
So yeah, I think when they looked up, they left the world.
They had a participatory experience of a transcendental kind of a living water, right?
And it wasn't an accident that they likened the sky to an ocean.
That wasn't superstition.
It's true. If you just go upscale one scale, like one ladder rung from the world, the sky is transcendental.
It is like water. It's filled with islands.
There are stars. There are planets.
But you don't have to know anything abstract at all.
You don't have to know those are stars and planets.
You don't need any of that.
You can actually just dive into the water.
And I've had experiences that border on this when I was very young and I looked up at the sky
before I had been trained to think abstractly about what up means, what is up, what the sky is,
