how under some circumstances ordinary people
will are capable of saying things so profound that you might only hear such an utterance once
in your lifetime and under other circumstances articulate people
cower and begin to mumble.
Incoherently. It's not that we have language. That would be a really wonderful thing. Language has us.
That is not a wonderful thing. That is an insane thing.
And you know I can hear countervailing opinions.
We use language coherently. It's helpful, useful for memory, the organization of identities,
databases in memory and complex relations between features in memory that now have
a new way of existing in memory that isn't merely straight up nervous system,
but includes some map making techniques.
And mostly these are around identity function or activity. Identity activity and what you might
call origin or clade. Which class of thing, situation, being, relationship, perspective,
understanding, so forth. Categorical class profusion is one of the problems we get.
But you know the classes can be relatively simply stated. It's an object or it's being.
And if it's being, it may have other properties such as what class is it, animal, vegetable,
mineral. Of course mineral is not usually considered a being. For some reason
the privilege of beingness is reserved for organisms in many of these tables.
That could be extremely problematical because
it'd be a really staggeringly important thing to get wrong if you were going to get something
wrong. To evict being from objects if indeed there's something like a superposition over
intelligences that is involved with how objects are structured and why they persist and so on.
My point though is that the languages carry payloads in older languages. They also have
dangerous parts of the payload but they have traditional features that are very complex and
rich. One would probably be endlessly edified. I'm suspecting anyway from the profuse intelligences
and playful perspectives one might find in conversation in Sanskrit among scholars of
their language, history, philosophy. There tend to be this clade of folks and they're all throughout
the world but in India the gurus are, many of them are quite profoundly learned.
We have quite profoundly learned people over here see there's that us and them game,
them and us. We have meaning Americans. Some of the older languages, large parts of the payload
that get imported as you become and language are much more complex and much less prone to
the idea of the sovereignty of the individual which easily breeds war. If you're by yourself
in the world you better be mighty tough because any old thing can eat you up.
The suppositions of individuality, I mean it's very hard to understand if there were any successful
individuals historically, people who just became somehow on their own. In many cases
it could easily be understood as a fate worse than death. Why would anyone want to be alone?
The only benefit of being alone, well it's not true. I have to be careful. I've fallen under
the sway of some of the baggage in English that I'm trying to point out. See I too am subject to it
but then there are also, so I think okay what are we going to do then? What's the
there's the problem? What's the solution? I heard some women say today.
Well if we can teach each other we can easily discover the baggage together if we are looking for
it and not in the sense of having a kind of a witch hunt either yelling at the language that's a
dumb idea. We just would improve you know make better linguistic choices and we'd probably
modify intelligently, continually update the way we relate with categories themselves
and we'd realize the difference between the words we're making in situations that we're using them
in and for. We would teach each other to be aware of some of this baggage. I think there's a book
this is Lakoff one of the authors maybe metaphors we live by or something like this
and that shows a little bit of the baggage but just the metaphoric stuff there's all kinds of other
stuff not just metaphoric figures and not just rhetorical figures little phrases that indicate
ideas you know let your enemy go first
if there's a problem on the battlefield
let someone else take the damage right which is another idea we're a bit like pigeons in this
sense right we clump together in cities which does provide some degree of protection of individuals
quote unquote but also many new threats I think throughout the history of our people you know
