Hello everybody. Welcome. It's going to be a little huffing and I'm climbing some stairs
up the side of a relatively steep incline. There are strange features of English and I don't know
enough about other human languages to be certain, but it seems extremely likely
that the languages carry a payload and we're not inclined to be aware of this or understand it
ordinarily unless
we have an unusual purpose or we are very passionately trying to understand it or
our curiosity is profound, right? Really want to know hidden things.
I've spoken of this before when I've said
that our experience of in-languaging smuggles something in. It smuggles in a bunch of weird games
and some of these are metaphors. Some of them are sayings, right? Figurative speech,
but they are also
invisibly powerful inclinations to think about identity meaning transactions and
relationships in very specific ways that have a lot to do with the historical development
of the language we speak.
Wow, a bunch of Verte China. It's kind of crazy. You find weird things along the street in San Francisco,
believe me. So, for example, there's an us versus them. There's a very strong us versus them,
what would I call it, principle that hovers almost tyrannically in the background
over modern English, particularly as it's spoken in the United States,
but probably something similar is going on elsewhere. There's a very us versus themist
feature of the underpinnings of the suppositions we acquire naturally by speaking our language
with other speakers who have also acquired them and communicate them these little figures of
speech, right? These almost cartoon ideas. They are, it is as if they are actually sketched figures,
but in language. I wonder what today modern young people would think of the phrase Uncle Sam
wants you, but in my mind, it flashes a kind of a red, white, and blue image of, you know,
Colonel Sanders' weirder brother pointing his index finger out of the frame of the poster
directly at me as if he actually sees me. And in English, it's worse because in a sense,
to be seen is to be seized by being seen, and to see is to seize. This is the kind of dangerous,
weird, pun-like understructure that we didn't invent most of us are unaware of. And
there are aspects of our cognition and psyche that are aware of them.
Making them conscious, well, it's either way you're going to have trouble, but you'd probably
rather have the trouble with what you can see than have a lot of trouble around stuff you can't see.
You don't notice. You don't have the the
the perspectival awareness of the kind to look from a certain angle within yourself at how
behavior is structured and so forth, how language structures behavior.
And there are many experts of different fields who are profoundly aware of this in a way
that is technical. So languages bring with them payloads and the problem with ours
is that the payload isn't old enough or rich enough compared to a language that was spoken.
I mean, what is English? It's a bastard child of the speech of the United Kingdom or something.
In fact, we might even say that one of the weirdest things about English's payload is that
it kind of encourages megalomania. I can see a cartoon where somebody's thinking carefully
about the evolution of English and discovers a leg of the history where kings are giving legal
decrees and they're declaring them and they're writing them. And you can be the king too,
just speak the language of the king and take the K off. Kinglish becomes English.
Like literally it's as if her ancestors were saying, it's kingish speaking.
It's a language of local authority, declaration, separate persons.
It dispenses with timelines and relationships
as easily as a hitman loads his gun. This stuff in the wrong hands is
lethally dangerous and it comes to us from histories
that were profoundly fraught, conflicted,
acting sometimes amorally as if the words told them what to do.
This is a people captured by the authority of language. We are that people.
And if you look closely, you will see if you study how people think,
how they think about how they speak,
how their behavior changes. If you modulate a couple of variables in the language,
