But the one tells us kind of where the cuts are, where the rubber meets the road, where we're anchored in point of view, or purpose, or both.
I was reminded of the parting of the Red Sea in the Bible as a moment of profound, you know, metaphoric instance of this property.
Moses, who we imagine holding a staff, symbol of disambiguation, power, penetration, distinction, the one.
And he parts the great ambiguity of the waters and his people escape their pursuers, who are destroyed by that ambiguity.
In a way, there's a parable there about the precedence of ambiguity and what to pay attention to, and which aspect is the origin of the two, right, of the zero and the one.
Because in the origin, you'll find intelligence you cannot locate. It's been discarded from the agent on purpose. The agent is without it, the whole thing falls apart, but it's not the origin.
And if I were to stretch a little bit and risk getting it wrong, I think in terms of our humanity, the right hemisphere is the origin of the capacity for the structured, more structured activities.
And I should be more, maybe I should make more distinctions, but yeah, right hemisphere zero, left hemisphere one.
And the agent divided from its origin becomes catastrophically misguided.
You can see something like this, or actually you could use this as a lens through which to look at human culture, societies, and behavior, and you would see, ah, yeah.
When it no longer cares about its origin, one could literally say something like, they who have forgotten their mothers, or women altogether, or that there even is an origin.
I mean, I say this in a simple way. I was an organ in a female before I was a male, right? It's fairly obvious to me what the precedence is. It's biologically implemented.
Yeah, my dad was involved, right? He, you know, he did the distinguishing thing, right?
He did the, you know, the powerful penetrating contribution of character and structure thing.
And then maybe sort of in one domain representing origin, my father, and in another domain, my mother representing agency because she will give birth to an agent in this, you know, in this model, which is admittedly playful.
Nonetheless useful though.
The humans have invented all kinds of abstract gaps, right? And they're relating together. Well, maybe it's the wrong word. They're misrelating in a layered array of fictions, right?
It doesn't mean they're not having actual human experience. Of course they are. They're all human.
But a lot of the gaps we create and then have to cross are in domains that don't exist really at all. We invented them. They're ideas, right? They're abstractions, systems, institutions, corporations, governments, societies, and so on.
And on that side, we tend to fall as cultures off the cliff into agency with no recognition of origin. And if there's no origin, essentially you can do no wrong, right?
There's no one to, well, you're not counting those who will viscerally reject that, but essentially you can get away with anything because there's nothing to offend.
You wrote all that off. You know, someone wrote all that off when they severed their ties to origin, to potential, to the fact of shared origin, to the fact of shared destiny.
