If you can excise all of that, you can just make a pretty killing machine over and over again, and you can keep inventing new ways of doing that and get mountains of commodities.
So yeah, agency without meaningful context is a really fraught and confusing situation for animals like us.
But to circle back toward the two statements, when we notice that this statement, the aspect of our awareness that we use to determine that the phrase this statement is false,
the aspect we use to notice that paradox only sees a paradox if it admits that statements tell us what they mean.
And that aspect, which is the aspect we, well, it's a unique instance of the aspect we use to understand statements in language, and it's imaginal.
That faculty's imaginal, by the way. No imagination, no more understanding things.
But you know, the imagination is just a trivial thing we should dismiss. It's just our imagination.
In any case, that faculty that we use to parse and disambiguate the meaning of the statement is the faculty that would otherwise maintain a superposition and see,
wait a minute, first of all, this is probably a null statement. Secondly, it's a weird kind of null statement.
Thirdly, it's a null statement that refers to its own validity. There's something interesting, and we would notice this about both of them.
Fourthly, the statement implicit in the statement is that minds collapse into statements so that statements tell minds what to see, what to be aware of, what to validate or invalidate, and they never did that.
So we would notice with that same faculty the collapse of these two crucial orders, right? Ideas or concepts or statements or language or math, and the minds that, in relation with them,
may mean things or be accomplishing a function, but the minds don't collapse into the statements any more than they do the math.
So we would hesitate, right? If we're aware of this, if you're aware of it, if somehow I've communicated this, you would notice that when I say this statement is false, essentially the statement's pretending to be a mind.
It's not only that, it's pretending to be your mind. And this turns out to be a really deeply entrenched vulnerability of our people. We get confused between statements and being. We get confused between tokens and what they point at.
The idea that that's a tree is pretty much meaningless. It just means I wrote down, I made a label to stick on that completely inconceivable phenomenon going back to the beginning of life on Earth with endless dimensionalities of relations with every being and all of time.
I mean, but no, I can throw all that way, just go like, ah, it's a tree. It's just a tree. What are you worried about? What are you thinking about? It's nothing to think about, it's just a tree.
I mean, there might be some peculiar way in which that's true, but I'd have to evict the just from the sentence. Our thinking systems are tree-like. Ah, they're cloud-like too, right? The tree-like on the agent side, they're cloud-like on the potential side.
But again, one of these has precedence and it isn't tree, right? It's not the end result of the disambiguation is correct. I could say the end result of this disambiguation is correct. I'm not even talking about anything. Those are words about themselves.
But luckily we have these toys and they can teach us something deeply fundamental if we find them intriguing. Fascinating. I certainly do.
Because the moment of insight when I finally see through this wall of veils, right, into, ah, the paradox is a portal to the recovery of faculties of my own awareness and intelligence.
That's a really different thing from the seemingly trivial, you know, chicken-egg question, which is essentially the same question, right? Is it the pure, undifferentiated potential that comes first or is it the agent?
