Depending on the scope and the point of view that we bring to inquiry, we will learn very different things.
The macro world isn't the quantum world, or at least at our scale there appears to be a discontinuity.
It seems like there's a discontinuity to our very crude, very young, present understanding in physics.
Again, you know, taking into account brilliant theories I haven't heard of that actually have some validity to them.
So, although I'm going to talk about this fundamental dichotomy, you know, the positive and negative, the zero and the one, the sperm and the egg, the man and the woman,
if you want to get really symbolic, the sun and the moon, I want it to be clear that I'm speaking figuratively and I don't want the conversation to collapse just into this idea of,
oh yeah, everything falls into two categories, that's nothing like what's going on.
Everything's mixing in kind of hyper structures of relation, transforming in endless dimensions per instant.
It's a vague stab at, you know, why it's not yes or no good or evil, true or false, a lot of the time, except in language and concepts and logic and, you know, math.
There's some places where we've collapsed the field significantly enough that we can deal with fundamental properties with some degree of sometimes astonishing success.
In any case, all of the organisms here, myself included, are a kind of space, they're a kind of time, they're a kind of space time,
they're unique expressions of space time, and there are intricately propagating dimensions of relational potential between them and conceivably a conflict potential.
So there's a possibility space in which they can relate with one another, and it's really, really big.
It's staggeringly endless, essentially, effectively endless.
And there's a possibility space in which they can conflict with each other, but it's going to be a much tougher game if you have to fight all the time.
So they tend to hitchhike on each other, and they tend to find new ways to do this, and this is actually part of how humans just learn, right?
But what I'm trying to say is one way to think about life is that it invents new kinds of gaps between beings, minds, intelligences, and then it crosses those gaps.
Those gaps like zero, the crossing is like one, right?
Zero is this really strange thing that points at the field of as yet undifferentiated potential.
Now I'm using the word is figuratively, as if, as if zero has this property, because many people may hesitate to ascribe this, perhaps reasonably.
In any case, it can be seen as if it refers to the field of the entire possibility of the number space as yet undisambiguated by the intrusion of purpose, point of view, scope, system.
And one sort of represents the intrusion of structuring and structuring potency, if we're to take them at their sort of base, holophore-like essence in some way.
