Or displays them more obviously.
I figured you'd probably rather look at some plants than me sneezing.
So we can, both of those statements have no content other than the assertion of their relationship to truth or negation, true or false.
But they don't tell us what true means and they don't tell us what false means.
And in fact they're sort of like null statements.
They have a weird shell but there's nothing in it except the language.
And this is the bizarre twilight zone where human consciousness goes awry all day long every day.
We take, we're trained to take from childhood extremely superficial statements about things either as reasonably definitive, absolutely definitive or the best map we've got.
In the worst case, we exchange our relationships with our own minds, our humanity, our intelligence, our creativity, with tokens.
That's a tree, that's a dollar, that's a sports car, that's a book.
And when we do this kind of thing, meaning and identity, our own identity, it's not that they disappear but we're sort of cognitively defecting from them.
Into the abstract space of statements and models and ideas and averages and generalizations are mostly extremely crude understandings of statistics and things like this.
And there's a position up from this strange pair that I really like because this statement is true, actually has like nine out of ten of the same confusions embodied in it.
Not that there's a specific number and probably I'm concerned with three.
I like the superficial okayness of this statement is true.
It hides the greater visceral complexity of this statement is false since of course if that's true it's false and if it's false it's true and so it leads to an infinite conflict, a recursive infinite conflict.
Because it references itself. It's not just kind of a null statement, it's a self referencing statement.
And that's really important to understand, though I don't know if I can explain the importance simply let me have a go at it.
Processes capable of uniquely including either their entire structure or significant portions of their structure as a sub process.
Particularly if that leads to an infinite recursion are important to be able to discern in our relationships with thought and language and ideas.
There are some processes that just fold back on either the entire process, which I'm pretty sure is what's happening in both of these statements.
Infinitely or they there's a kind of partial recursion that tends to be much more interesting in which different aspects of the whole are reprocessed inside the super process.
