Though again, feel free to disagree. I'm trying to play with some toys here.
So the bee and the flower, right? Life, there's all these gaps in nature. The bees go flower to flower, connect those gaps, essentially doing that thing that I'm talking about, which I think is, might be one of the super,
super forms of everything about being alive, right? It's a modest toy, but it's a very useful one, I think.
We undergo this process of traversing gaps of all different kinds, you and I, financial, emotional, psychological, relational, economic, vocational, cognitive, psychic, visionary, imaginal, right?
It's like, but fundamentally, sperms cross impossible gaps to make new human beings, and there's like a living one and a zero, fundamentally, in the biological basis of human reproduction,
but not just of course human reproduction. The paradigm is well instanced throughout nature, right? Whether bees are involved? And who knows? Maybe something like bees are involved with human reproduction, we're just not aware of it.
It's entirely possible, we don't. No one's mapped the incredible landscape of the relations between organisms to any even modest degree of completion. There could be all kinds of fascinating things going on.
Not that we need to get sidetracked by that. So, you know, even the words that I'm using right now, I'm using them to traverse gaps in my own mind, gaps that I don't know the origin of, and I don't actually know the origin of the words that I'm using.
Because I don't. The mind is a set that includes itself, but it's largely unconscious of how and why and the origins and, you know, what's actually going on with that situation.
To refer to the field of as yet unstructured possibility is to refer to the field of uncollapsed opportunity, right? It's a really strange and interesting thing to do.
It's probably why it took human beings a long time to, who would have thought to refer to the field? And there are similar questions. Who would have thought to include the point of view?
Can you include the point of view in referring to the field or the agent, right, the one?
One of the lessons from the initial two statements is that minds supervene over statements. Language is a toy. It certainly doesn't tell us what it means.
And if we collapse the ordinary dimensionality of our relationship with language sufficiently enough, we get these paradoxes like the statement is true, the statement is false.
You can also split that up and put those on two sides of a card, right? The statement on the other side of this card is true. The statement on the other side of the card is false.
Now you have a flip-flop recursion, right? Where they're really twinned up.
But I think what was actually on my mind was fertility. All the different kinds of gap crossing. Even in, you can see this furiously going on in just, if you look just at the humans, right, what they do with representational intelligence is kind of weird and crazy.
I think it got off to a bad start or something, something intruded. Maybe something non-ordinary intruded, entirely open to that idea, even though I probably wouldn't directly assert it.
Well, I would pose, yeah, I could suggest ways in which, and I have some models of ways in which, you know, something non-ordinary must be involved, it seems to me.
But I'm astonished by the way organisms create and cross gaps. And though I have no specific idea of exactly how life arose on Earth, I have some fairy tales and stuff.
I suspect that there were incredible gap crossings going on that were totally epic and might have involved other galaxies, you know, who knows what.
And you can see on the side of one that it both, it does really crazy stuff when it interacts with zero. It sets up boundary like membranes in a way, although membranes pretty zero like thing.
