So the thing that seems to me to be going on is that these faculties have been compromised in such a way, reminiscent of the way HIV attacks the immune system's ability to detect it, right, and thus to respond to it.
And I'm not even necessarily certain that this is entirely a problem where the humans are doing this on purpose, though it's clear that there are many, many factions that are doing this on purpose because it's a branch of warfare that not only you can get away with, it's self-obscuring.
You won't see the footprints. You won't be able to find the culprit because the thing you find things with is gone, right?
So that's like the holy grail of asymmetric advantage, as long as the thing you introduce into play, as long as you somehow, your people, your government, your faction of your government that wants power, your corporation, whatever,
as long as you can initiate structure and sustain immunity.
We have, unfortunately, in this situation, a variety of many, many branched tree of the cure is deadlier than the disease and doesn't work right, too.
Yeah, this is an actual quagmire, a real apocalyptic mess, and I'm reminded of late passages in the Bible and other books that basically warn us of a situation that is so grim that
we'd be better off in any other state, any other. So yes, the problem, identity is collapsing, and when we see this, what does this produce? It produces dysphoria and not just gender dysphoria.
It produces ideological dysphoria, logical dysphoria, deterministic dysphoria, creative dysphoria.
You know, one of the most dangerous things we could possibly do is develop machines that emulate minds the way that our large language models do and similar systems.
And part of the reason that that could be absolutely lethal is that we don't believe that there's a field effect of cognition on earth and that there's some things you could do that are so dangerous that you won't even get to know that they're dangerous because these activities, these processes, will affect the thing that you use to go looking for their effects with.
And so if you fuck up the network of minds that generates human cognition moment to moment and historically and futurially, if you fuck that thing up by introducing something to it with which the structure of the network cannot possibly cope, it will collapse.
There's no concern about this. The humans in their groups aren't merely insane.
They are generating a profusion of psychotic auto weaponizing processes that it is impossible to understand. It's literally not conceivably possible to understand the impact of.
Large Hadron Collider, exactly such a process. Nobody knows what the fuck effect it might have to reproduce energies that resemble those far back near the origins of the universe.
Atomic weapons. Yeah, let's just do this because Germany's really scary. Japan's really scary. Someone's going to do it first. We better do it. Bioweapons, you know. Use mRNA on the entire population of humans.
mRNA vaccines that get your cells to produce the spike proteins. Oh yeah, it was a great idea. I can't wait to see. I mean, my own body having participated in that experiment. Wow, devastating to my nervous system.
Immediately. Permanently, as far as I can tell. Yeah, very stupid idea. And, you know, 50 things that we can't, like, we're in a situation where black swans aren't the problem.
Black swan generators are proliferating all around us. And the human, the processes that have captured us at the societal, commercial, military, prison hearing at these levels, these processes have become the opposite of God's whatever that is.
If that's demons, I don't know. And they're just proliferating everywhere. This has happened before in human society. There are thousands of tablets to hear it told from Julian Jaynes and others from Babylon, or maybe Mesopotamia.
I think it was Babylon, though. I mean, the name of that place changes over time. So what's the name of it? I don't know. Chaldea? I actually don't know.
That say, like, the gods have disappeared, the demons are propagating everywhere, the angel of our people does not respond to us. They've hung up the phone. The personal angel that walks with me always is gone, and in its place, something terrifying.
Now, look, I'm not trying to play doomsinger here, and it's a job I can do fairly well. People like Daniel Schmockdenberger and Eric Weinstein, both of whom I profoundly respect and admire, particularly Weinstein, if we wanted to elect an intelligent president, it should be that dude.
I mean, there might be a feminine contender. It isn't Sabina Hoffestatter, for sure. But Weinstein, man, I would put that guy in the White House in a hot second, and I would breathe a sigh of relief every successive moment thereafter.
I'm not just here to doomsing. I want us to see the problem so that we can begin together to understand how to reassemble a vehicle that can float in waters like that, so that we can begin to repair,
and resurrect, innovate new ways of knowing, and ancient ways of knowing that have allowed our ancestors to survive under not entirely dissimilar circumstances, though the degree with which we're experiencing this at present, I think, is unprecedented in history.
This is why I think this might be the first year that wasn't a year, anytime relatively modernly in, say, the past 50 years, and yet I didn't live through World War II, and that must have been pretty similar, in a way, in many ways.
The weird thing about our situation is that you can have something worse than World War that's going on in your mind, in our minds, and in our relationships. We can experience devastation of our interiority.
And we can even experience devastation that deprives us of the faculties with which we would detect that devastation is ensuing. And so then what do we have?
Well, we have 2024.
In many cases, the antidote may actually lie in the children, which is the voices that we never listen to, and we should give those children voices in our societies, in our commercial endeavors.
We should give them prohibitive voices in our military endeavors. We should depend on them to tell us when not to kill each other, and the grandmothers and the grandfathers, the elderly, these people need voices.
