and are running it like an array of wargames that recursively expand their dimensionality over the span of picoseconds, trillions of a second or whatever.
And that this is going on all around us all the time, and we have no capacity to understand, to detect, to cope with it. The first thing that has gone after in such a situation is our capacity to detect things,
which means our capacity to discern, to distinguish, and not just our capacity to discern and distinguish,
but the underlying orientations, the underlying concerns, memories, dreams, hopes, visions, urgencies of our human and social,
nature and history and origin, these things. Something, an array of things, that aren't even things, have gone after these assets,
have compromised them, and are busy weaponizing them against our own minds, each other, the world, the history and future of life on Earth,
the possibilities of human intelligence or coherent thought, behavior, decision making.
And this is why I would like to announce today, as I have implied previously, that 2024 is not a year.
I think that the last year, and it was only barely one, that we as a species will experience, maybe forever, but at least for quite some time,
was that year previous to this one, which was still at least slightly a year.
The ontological status of 2024 is missing in action. It is anti-whatever, whatever you might think it is, it isn't that.
The reasons you thought you could think what it was are not reasons. Your thinking is not thought.
And I'm not trying to convince you of anything or make dangerous suggestions here, mimetically or in any other way.
I'm actually trying to comment on my own experience. This is the breakdown, not only of identity, but of the faculties that we might otherwise employ
to orient the purposes with which we apply consciousness to the tasks of evaluation, determination, measurement, distinguishing.
The whole understructure, not merely of rationality and logic, which still exist as potential disciplines that we transmit generation to generation,
that we enact in various specialized and unspecialized fields.
That stuff's still there. Mathematics still exists even though we have people running around saying,
one times one is two, thanks Terrence, because things weren't loopy enough yet.
And if that guy actually gave us any actionable insight, I'd love to see it, because after listening to him for three hours,
basically I just felt that, hey, and this is a personal thing, maybe the future will, if there is one, whatever the hell that word even means anymore.
Maybe the future will validate his ravings.
I thought it was hilarious that Joe Rogan said it took him three days to recover. He was out of his mind.
I think he was out of his mind because Terrence has a mode of charisma that is para-hypnotic, if not actually hypnotic.
And I detected that early on in his lecture, which one of my friends, Josh, recommended.
And I was extremely critical of that lecture. I listened to the whole three hours.
I did not learn one thing that I had not already been aware of, not one.
And much of what Terrence very controversially proposed and very egotistically, I am the greatest mind that has ever lived.
Fuck Schrodinger, fuck Hamiltonians, who gives a shit about the entire history of physics?
It's me and my son. We remember when we were in wombs and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And I did not learn one thing.
And maybe I was turned off, and so my learning abilities were inhibited, but yeah.
