No cookies for Terrence, in my view.
I can learn from listening to almost anyone, including little children.
For some reason, the vault doors of insight and purpose in my mind closed and locked against that guy.
By the way, I think it's important just to notice that he actually says that he formed the purpose in his heart to destroy humanity.
But thankfully he came to his senses due to the loving care of his wife.
Like that gives you a pretty good view into what's going on in that mind in the first place.
A lot of geniuses and prodigies have chips on their shoulder, and sometimes we're driven by our chips.
Even my own mind, I'm not totally against having a chip on one's shoulder.
I am against making that the star of Bethlehem of one's genius or prodigy or spirit.
Though there are occasional instances where that even works, or is important.
Personally, I tend to trust things like an amnesis, which is unforgetting.
A process, not a destination.
Virtue, altruism.
The beauty.
And people say, yeah, you know, you've evicted your shadow. No, I haven't evicted my shadow.
I have a broad, deep, rich relationship with my shadow, too.
But if I start having thoughts that orient around things like vengeance or war, I tend to back the fuck up.
Start asking myself some questions.
So, yeah, identity. What the hell is going on?
And see, that's the problem. The thing with which we would make such determinations has been thoroughly, recursively compromised.
And maybe has even been compromised in such a way as to cause it to become self-compromising, right?
Every time you touch it, it gets worse. And again, I want to be really clear.
Let's help each other preserve our capacities for wisdom and insight.
But in order to do that, we may need to understand the problem.
And as I spiral into this concern today, let's agree that we will generate together a kind of anti-gravity that resists the pull of this so that we can heal these faculties and reforge them together.
However, to do that, we might need a clear view of what's going on or a clear and pragmatic understanding of the forces at play.
And, you know, if you can turn the faculties that measure and make distinctions and make decisions against their own root.
And by the way, this is a well-known feature of the art of war, a well-known feature of Psiops in general.
And I mean, I wish I could say that we were the victims of a Psiop.
Wow, that would be so much better than what's going on.
You know, this is a swarming encyclopedia of layered Psiop like a profusion of self-progenerating Psiop-y syrups that were just, you know, as people, as nations, as individuals, were just glued down with.
And, you know, let's put some solvent on that glue and dissolve it, but first let's understand it.
