It's possible and, you know, who cares about Darren's theories.
I'm just trying to understand what are the actual potentials and I'm not close to other arguments.
I've had conversations about this with advanced non-human intelligences and their perspective was generally, I mean they had like 15 different perspectives,
but most of them agreed that physical travel in space for humans is not a thing.
But what I was trying to say is similarly, you know, Musk is concerned that there's a window where we might be able to get off planet and that window probably won't last.
And we have the same problem with the window of producing new forms of communal human orientation, purpose, identity.
There's a window in which we can...
...pulling that start string on my vocabulary.
There's a window in which we can innovate.
And we can... because we are free, right, we have the luxury of not being on fire, not being struggling for food or oxygen.
Having technology at our disposal, lethally dangerous though it is, there's a window where we can create new ways of being human together
that we can actually trust and believe in and become passionately engaged with.
And in case this sounds impossible, just be very clear that it's no problem at all to do this with two people.
Three people? Not a problem. Do it right now.
We can instantly accomplish it without much effort at all.
A little bit of, you know, a few simple agreements and a little bit of effort.
And we can get to a superposition over what the common people are mired in and contributing to in seconds.
We can build the spaceship of our mutuality so easily in small groups.
All we have to do is build a form that becomes contagious.
And that's not difficult, especially when given the alternatives.
If somebody is pointing 97 guns at your head and somebody else raises a gun-dissolving flower,
that flower is going to prosper in the human cognizium very rapidly.
Not only because the humans don't want to die, but because the entire planet's history and future right now
is on the chopping block of the idiocy of the humans.
So you don't just have human allies, you have non-human allies, you have an ally in the sun,
you have an ally in time-space, you have an ally in everything that is in love with and relates with the Earth.
The entire history of life on Earth becomes your ally. All of your ancestors become your ally.
This is exactly what superpower means.
This is part of the secret message underlying our comic book heroes.
Do something so amazing and beautiful that the entire history and future of life or beings agrees
and they will join your project and lift you above your station.
So this is what we must learn and remember and recover together.
