And if we're to survive into a whatever degree we may have a shot at surviving as a species, this is the future of our people.
Once attention became commoditized, our civilizations basically slipped nooses around each other's neck and began winching those things up toward the sky.
And we're still, at this, at this point, most, some of us are still able to breathe.
Those who haven't been executed by the process so far, killed either by the disease or the cure, so to speak.
So those of us that are still alive, I mean, you know, if some of us are just spectators, right, we're just kind of here to watch the apocalypses mating with each other on the horizon
and producing, you know, little baby apocalypses that are going off inside us or replacing our interiority or our potential or our future.
And, you know, if your life is like that REM song,
it's the end of the world as we know it.
You know, by all means, pop a beer, put some music on and watch the history and future of not just the humans, but life on Earth burned to a cinder.
I don't really mean that, but really I don't have a lot of judgment about that.
And it's sort of, if we don't produce compelling antidotes together, then at some point we're going to lose the capacity to do so.
This is like Musk's idea and Weinstein half agrees.
Musk thinks we can get off-planet to other worlds in the solar system.
I think that's not possible.
I have good reason to believe that humans can't survive metabolically or cognitively beyond the Goldilocks zone long enough to undergo genetic modulation that might allow us to exist on, say, for example, Mars.
I think the only chance of us existing on Mars is if we could easily travel back and forth from Mars to the Earth.
That would give us the possibility of surviving the modulation phases.
I don't think we can survive in space.
I'd be very surprised if we can.
It's conceivable, right?
And Musk has sort of the right idea.
And Weinstein is like, no, we need a new physics.
If either long cosmic distance space travel is impossible, there's just no way to do that at all physically.
I mean, I would argue that the answer to this is accessible to humans right now.
It has nothing to do with traveling in space.
It has to do with traveling in the hyperlog of intelligence that space-time is what the hyperstasis that space-time is.
In the same way, as my hand is to my body, human intelligence is to space-time.
We're born for travel in that medium that we don't really even have ideas or concepts about unless they're spiritual, primarily, which is partly confused.
But anyway, Weinstein wants us to advance physics and find the methods that could move us instantaneously to other worlds.
I think we'd probably still have the same problem unless we could produce something like a field inside a vehicle or a building that had the same properties or preserve,
like, could remember and preserve the properties of our planet and its relationship with our sun.
Unless we could do that, I doubt our bodies or minds could survive.
