But yeah, log in, say hello, and explain, just tell me something about what got you here today.
And I'll think of some second thing.
If I can't get my hippocampus spun up to map the history of my conscious imagination and get us to the original second thing that I originally had in mind.
So I know, at least partially, what my initial direction is here today.
And I'm willing to change that direction and explore around, you know, to birdwalk a bit.
I sort of have an ideological or perceptual, perspectival purpose of walkabout.
And my initial motivation and my inspiration is the catastrophic weirdness that we're experiencing around identity.
And I'm not just talking about identity politics, though, that was an early contender for catalytic origins.
But even that had to be inspired by something, and it wasn't just the academic hijinks and nefarious hyper-articulations of the postmoderns, who I have mistrusted since I was first exposed to them.
As a language poet in the 80s, somebody experimenting with language and surrounded by other sophisticated, academic, linguistic, semiotic oriented people like Daniel Davidson, who took his life sometime around 1988, maybe,
and was the co-editor on the second issue of my magazine, Cyanosis, took his life ironically by suffocation.
He introduced me to people like Deleuze Gattari, Avatel Ronell, her telephone book, Foucault, Derrida, et cetera.
And there's this fierce para or neo-feminist contingent within that pie slice of academia.
And I remember being at once impressed and profoundly skeptical, impressed and I felt antipathy toward these, these arcs.
You know, there used to be this publication called Simeo Text, and this is back when I'm trying to figure out how to publish an art and literary journal on my own.
And I was really interested in the intersection between science, biology, medicine, and art, which is why in the second issue I went into the surgery with Francis Connolly for eight hours at Stanford and watched her take the top of a man's head off and scrape a baseball-sized chunk of his brain out.
What was the name of the device that basically liquefies tissue? Wow, can't remember.
And then after you liquefy the tissue, you have to cauterize all the little blood vessels by hand. Wow, it was incredible.
Then I watched a male surgeon walk in and essentially undo eight hours of her work.
So this isn't good enough. A man didn't do it. Typical.
You know, part of what she was complaining about and part of why we have actually valid feminist concerns.
But as with any branch of concern, what you can think of is either the inner toward the point-like slice of the three-dimensional pie, four-dimensional pie, since times involved.
I mean, it could be a seven-dimensional pie, but you can either have it near the point or the periphery.
You have these very extreme embodiments that tend toward profoundly ideological concerns, rather than trying to see better or resolve an issue.
There's a kind of militant, jargonist, jingoist, hyper-linguistic, hyper-semiotic deconstructivist, and it's political deconstructivism.
And this stuff is fascinating to me. I definitely wouldn't want it to go away.
I wouldn't say, like, let's get rid of that, but I would say we should handle this the same way we handle plutonium.
This is not what we will use to solve our problems or to see better or to understand the origins of the issues that are swarming, you know, explosively, volcanically, radioactively, pathologically around us in our modern experience.
I've never actually read any Andrea Dworkin. I probably haven't read any extremist feminist authors, and I'm sure someone could say, you know, why are you calling them extremists?
But not only that, you have, you know, you have three pieces downstairs. You have nothing to say about feminism. Nothing. You're a man.
Well, you're sort of right. But actually, when it comes right down to it, before I was a man, I was a woman. I was an organ in my mother's body.
My mother took me to National Organization of Women's Meetings in the 70s in Stockton, California, where I met astonishing minds and a lot of lesbians.
