Hello, everybody. Welcome. If you're listening today, I'd like you to log in and do two things.
First is, tell me why you're here. What brought you here today? Why are you listening?
And whatever is actually going on, just tell me what that might be.
You don't have to sound articulate or complicated. I just want to know, you know, what got you here?
This isn't a marketing survey. It's just curiosity.
And I've already forgotten the second thing. Perhaps it'll come back to me.
This is the problem with consciousness, generally. And we all experience this problem uniquely.
It's a problem of memory. One of my friends, her first husband, had an idetic memory.
And I could tell her exactly the sequence of events for any day in the 20 years of their marriage.
He's got his hand feeding ravens, which is pretty fucking fun, I gotta admit.
I'm not sure what he's hand feeding them.
Something very small.
Of course, it's against code to feed animals in the park, and it is a very dangerous thing to do.
The kid thought that because the geese were running toward him, they were intending to attack him.
It's really just because he's got food.
That's what?
Yeah, feeding the animals is a huge problem.
Of course, on the other hand, these are city animals.
My feeding them does cause all kinds of trouble, to be clear.
And I sometimes feed them, and so do a few of my friends.
Okay, so what was the second thing? What brought you here today?
Oh yeah, first of all, what's the problem we have? The problem we have is with thread memory, actually.
And it becomes a different kind of problem for different people.
Obviously, someone with an edetic memory, or someone whose memory is extremely sophisticated, effective, profound.
They're living in an entirely different kind of mind.
That's not always a benefit.
It's certainly beneficial for some things, and we might imagine many things.
It also presents dangers that could be very difficult to evade.
Particularly, anything related to hypervigilance is going to be problematically exacerbated by, in many cases, in some cases, by memory.
So what was the second thing? What brought you here?
Hmm, yeah, I can't find it.
I mean, I have lots of ideas about what other things I could ask you to do.
