They also need care, because the elderly are generally just dismissed, evicted. They die of loneliness and lack of meaningful role. We need to give them roles. We need to treasure them. They are precious.
Their knowledge of history, the living knowledge of history, that they are the embodied genius of is precious.
Now yes, it's also true that as we age, there is an inclination to crystallize into ideological concretism. I've seen this in many. What I would refer to as older persons.
But that may be a side effect of fear and isolation, and also a conservative response to the unprocessable.
The impossible to process, swarm of pathological transformations of culture, society, location, gentrification, prison-eering, warmongering, ideological, viruses.
They might just be clamping down, because they're just like, what the hell even is the world anymore?
The future does not belong to us. It belongs to life on earth, fundamentally, first.
If we could give the whales a voice, that would be the smartest thing we could possibly do as humans. The trees, the forests, the jungles, let's give them a voice.
Or let's take people who have become their voices and promote those people to positions where they have the power to prohibit insanity.
And that's one of my recommendations about Eric. I'm sure Eric doesn't want the job of president, but I suspect that if we could actually get him nominated,
and we elected him, he'd probably be willing to sit.
And if he wouldn't be willing to sit, then he should sit as an advisor to whoever's president, and we should enact laws that make, but force the leader of our country to take intelligent consulting very seriously.
So they just can't, they can't just be a one man tyrant.
Democracy, the possibilities of democracy fundamentally depend on the separation of church and state and commerce and state.
Those things have to be separated.
Whenever those two things war, prison nearing commerce and religion, when those infect a democracy, it's the end of that democracy.
And we don't have one anymore. We don't have anything resembling a democracy.
One of the necessities of a democracy is a well-educated populace, common populace.
We have the opposite of that.
On purpose.
Different factions within different parties went after the possibility of free and liberal education very ferociously over the past 50 years, and very successfully.
Yeah, I don't know what this is, but it's not a year.
And one of the things that's happening is the past, the present and the future are collapsing.
And this does present certain unique opportunities.
Mad people and prophetesses and prophets will certainly arise in this time.
And some of them will, will operationalize the vortex, the temporal vortex, and create vehicles
in which they and perhaps their followers can ride those currents into what?
Power, hopefully insight and intelligence, communal coherence, honesty, integrity.
Something we might call unlying, essentially peeling back the scabs of conceptual, ideological, social, political, commercial, military falsehoods
that have become as profuse and profligate as they are common and trivial and on every tongue and every mind, popular.
It's certainly conceivable that we can engineer.
Antidotes that are more contagious than pathogens, the real stuff, and I mean relational, cognitive, linguistic, ideological, political, commercial antidotes.
