Our more than merely human faculties, relationships, abilities, potentials, intelligences.
And we were born for this. This is why we came.
In a nearly explicit sense, this is why we came to human birth.
It wasn't to be ground up by the, you know, the hamburger-making nonsense of culture and language.
Ideology, politics, war, prison-eering, discrimination, hatred, bigotry, sexism.
And, you know, a shout out to the people who want to attack males in general.
And I see these comments on social media that are so toxic about, you know, people just attacking the entire gender of men.
As if that were intelligent or a good idea. I want to be really clear about something.
That is sexism. That is bigotry. That is hate. That is stupid. That is wrong.
If there is problems with the men, we need to trace them back to their origins and heal the men.
Pointing your finger at an entire gender and saying, bad, bad gender. That is just stupid.
And it is going to have catastrophic consequences. That will not bring a new world where a new way of being human,
where we are intelligent and caring together with and for each other.
And that is what the antidote looks like, in my view.
Well, symphony, symphony action in the park.
This is a great closure for my recording today.
When the intelligences from which and for which we originate are in communal agreement, our abilities are infinite.
Oh my goodness. Music all day long here. Wow. Okay. That is awesome.
We will proceed to discovery and invention, experiment and innovation together.
And if you find this inspiring, get a couple of people together and play with the possibilities and the infinite depth
of the intelligences native to our origin and nature as beings, as organisms, as animals and as human.
You will find not just an undiscovered country, an undiscovered universe of potential.
Empirical reality is not the limit of what is true and accessible.
And the delusions of cults are a distraction from the beyond that is truly accessible to us
and for which we ache in our souls, in our spirits, in the imperatives that we brought to our human birth
and recalled in childhood and perhaps were somewhat able to preserve, however despairing we may have become
about the possibility of fulfilling them in our lifetime.
So these are some of my thoughts for the day. So grateful to have this time with you, your attention, your concern.
Sign in. Let me know what brought you here today and ask a question.
Thank you for joining me. May your paths and lives, dreams and relationships be beautiful, adventurous, inspiring and redemptive.
Peace for now. More soon.
