But even though I had no idea what that could possibly mean or be back then, because I was unusually and catastrophically sexually naive as a young human being.
My goodness, the naivete. It's not gone yet. I'm still partly that way. In any case, those were the first intelligent humans I ever met, and they made a significant impression on me.
And I certainly felt the compelling title forces of people who said things like war is not healthy for children and other living things, and free to be you and me.
An album I listened to with great, you know, passion and playful wonder.
There was a book written by an insane woman for children called Donna DQ Donut that has disappeared along with its author. Somewhere in the world there is this text.
How I would love to recover that thing somehow about a girl who discovers that puddles are actually portals to another universe, which turns out to be a fact.
Not the kind of fact you find in science. The kind of fact you find in daring, adventurous quests to recover the nature of not nearly the real, but the possible.
And that's actually the topic that I'm interested in today. Not, as it might appear, forming up against post-moderns and pomo-feminism and hyper... I don't know what.
Yeah, hyper theories. Extremism, ideological extremism, linguistic extremism, lexical extremism.
And one of the dangers of language is the incredibly compelling power and joy of coining jargon. And I myself love this, but I rarely do it for militant purposes. And when it is done for militant purposes, the results are weapons.
And there's a time and a place for combat. There's a time and a place for battle. But before we go there, we had better be able to see very, very deeply.
Very clearly, with many eyes from history and many eyes concerned with not survival, but with the preservation of the possibility of health, intelligence, insight, awareness, consciousness.
It's far too easy to deceive ourselves into a corner. And there I have to discover that along with the enemy we have cut off our own feet.
We and the other are the same hand. And when the pinkies attacking the thumbs screaming about ideological invective and indictment, wow, we should back the fuck up.
And, you know, get some mirrors, some satellite mirrors around us so that we can gain some perspective outside the thin slice of reality that has become erect in consciousness and threatens to weaponize the whole damn affair.
We've seen this over and over again in human history. If it ever had a reasonable result, I don't know when that was.
That was trippy. And he backed up within a millimeter. Look at that bucket. You see how close that is? That was good. That was amazing.
The guy just backed his truck up and there were some buckets behind the truck. And the space between the bumper and the buckets was about maybe three millimeters.
I'm not inclined to suppose that he did that on purpose. Nonetheless, the result is incredible. You know, we have this capacity that I love.
I've always been fascinated by the process of estimation. And long hours with early betas in version 1.0 and stuff of Adobe Illustrator allowed me to play with this.
But so, too, did certain jobs. I was an estimator for a printing company, what was it called, in Santa Rosa in the probably the early 80s. Yeah, I can't remember.
But yeah, I've always been fascinated by estimating things. And a lot of the times this involves doubling an estimate and then halving it again. We're halving an estimate and then doubling it again.
And sometimes just halving it, halving it. So you get close and then you zoom in 100 percent and you get that much closer.
And, you know, with Adobe Illustrator you didn't have infinite zoom, but you had way more capacity for tight tolerances in geometric relationships than in any previous software by many orders of magnitude, not by a little bit.
In any case, I'm in danger of losing the thread here. So, identity.
Oh, I remember. My hippocamp is finally spun up. I remember the second thing. So let me know what brought you here today. If you'd be so kind. It's a small favor to ask. I don't subject you to advertising. You don't have to buy my content.
So do me this little favor if you'd be so kind. And the second thing is ask a question. Ask me any question and I'll answer in the comments. Seems like a fair trade, right?
I want you to catalyze my sense of purpose and orientation and concern. So I just kind of want to turn this around, at least a little bit. And I also want to hear your voice, even if it's just in text.
Okay, so identity. My motto, I've been watching closely over the past, say, 10, it's more, it's also less years. As the concepts that underlie the foundations of how we make determinations,
are called first, blurred, and then compromised, and then dumpster fire, inverted, upside down backwards, inside out, weaponized against us. And let me be really clear. If you had a transcendental enemy, or use an individual or facing, for example, an entire nation,
and not the nation of the people, but dead inside pathologically, the cognitive equivalent of bioweapons that are the result of enemies like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, TikTok, China, Russia,
the United States, Iran, Pakistan, India. If you were facing an entire nation, I mean, it's much worse than that. Imagine that you're facing the entire array of the warlike dead inside processes that have taken over humanity in our time,
