and what they want to be together, and it organizes them and changes their roles fluidly
and intelligently going forward together in time to create the future together rather
than to react to something that appears to have been the response to just not paying attention
behind us.
No.
That's a job.
Not slavery.
That's a kind of prison.
Excel lens to get out of the prison cell, to lance that cell and get out together, to
be called into excellence together is a role playing way, a way of playing roles together
that change and flow, but are more intelligent than any role you can rigidly specify.
And they pay in 12 ways at once and they also pay in cash and here's how much work is required.
So just think about it.
You want to play over here, at least realize this.
The more work you have to do, the less you're going to be paid do a lot less work in a really
useful way, make way more money for the amount of time you have to spend working.
Then at least you'll have a chance to come back over here and try to establish some kind
of humanity in the balance of that and some kind of ecology, some kind of animalian experience
of your animal self, which is the most important part of you as a being is fundamentally animal.
There's no way around it.
You can argue with me, but you're not going to argue with 3.2 billion years of human history
for six sevenths of that there weren't even brains on this world.
So this is how old life is on earth.
This is how long there weren't brains.
You guys are we're brand new around here.
So if we're the only intelligence something really weird is going on we're saying like
roll for six sevenths of the history of life on earth, there was no intelligence and suddenly
man emerge and suddenly now there's intelligence and everybody's smart.
Except weirdly then we start burning down all the little pieces that lift us up and we start
burning down too and don't even notice but we're so intelligent, we're so machines and
no, you have a job it owned you and started shaving away half of everything so that it
could burn down the rest of the living beings and then I don't know what the then what then
stand there dumbfounded as its intelligence just leaked the remaining intelligence sort
of leaks out of one of its ears and we fall over like a dead statue won't even be able
to make museums, won't even be able to look at our photographs and understand what the
hell they were.
There's seven billion of us now.
So one time around the sun means seven billion humans doing one year of life.
Think about that.
That's really new.
We better do something really beautiful and excellent together which is not like jobs
because those won't allow us to be ecological.
They will not allow us to be human beings.
We have to be fake, fake pod members with stipulated roles for nonhuman groups, deadly
idea and these compete with each other against these and life on earth.
No more of that none, zero, not even one of those should be allowed to happen.
That's all we're doing.
And we wonder why over here things are getting a little bit sketchy or scared the environment
is being torn apart, life on earth, perishing beneath the necessities of fictional collectives
that don't even exist except as possibilities on the rule that we could set up a metric
like this and make money this way and treat these people that way and treat those people
that way and keep it a secret this way and we can figure it all out.
We're supposed to have roles that actually embody the power and intelligence of the history
of all of life on earth and the promise of all of life in space and time.
This isn't a matter of religion.
