Now over here on this side, there's a really strange idea I want to ask, I want to ask
all of you this question, just take a moment and consider it for yourselves, ask yourself
these two questions, what was the most work you ever did in an hour of your life for an
employer, how much would you, were you paid for that, what was the least work you ever
had to do in an hour of your life for an employer that you got paid for because the thing I
want to make really clear about my own experience is that as I was being paid more and more
to be a technical consultant by the way and an on the spot troubleshooter in situations
where 10 minutes can cost $100,000, if we're down for 10 minutes, we're going to lose
100 grand.
So they're willing to pay me a lot of money if I can guarantee that they won't go down,
no matter what happens, they won't even lose one minute.
And I don't know what's coming and I'm an uneducated person.
I left school in the sixth grade and ran away from home and lived in the forest like
a monkey.
And then I came back to what you guys call civilization and what I saw tried to destroy
in my mind, but since I happened to survive, I've got a little bit of monkey smarts left
from when I lived in the woods and that monkey smarts is worth lots of money because it can
see through problems that ordinary people have because they think they know stuff.
I don't think I know.
I have a liquid identity so I can flow into a situation like a chameleon.
I can adopt identities that are useful in that situation that don't belong to me.
I have no right to adopt them, but I'm not a mimic.
Why am I not a mimic?
There's a simple reason, my purpose is true.
I'm a faker with a true purpose.
Wait a minute.
Well, how do you get that?
Actually, that's what a child is.
That's what a prodigy is, an artist.
In fact, aren't dreams a little bit like that?
Isn't that part of what makes us human?
Do you think your car dreams?
Does your computer dream?
Does it have eyes of living water made by billions of beings, their lives given to preserve
and protect them?
No, it doesn't.
It has shining lights.
I see motors.
Not too much like life.
Not too much like life.
The job is weird as I got more and more, as my demand, as the demand for my presence
and services increased and my value skyrocketed, right?
Two weird things happened.
The first was I wasn't allowed to keep any of that money at all, not going to that.
The second was I did less and less work and had more and more fun, but I was more and
more busy and had less and less time to be alive.
So I tried to be alive in little moments between the work or in little moments when
I was at work not working because I was working for myself so I didn't have to be doing anything.
I just had to make sure that certain things were done and then being in a certain place
at a certain time to encase something happened.
So I did a lot of that and while I was there, I could learn about systems and I built systems.
I did my job, but at the same time, my job was my education and I felt literally like
I was a person from another planet because I had done some growing up in the wilderness
alone for a while in the Russian river area and I mean, I was still in culture.
I wasn't completely out in the woods, but I lived in the woods.
