See how my face is just fading away?
In the normalization, when we talk on cell phones, they normalize our voices.
They re-digitize what you say.
They're shaving off the music, the living music, yeah?
They produce artifacts.
The same thing happens in concepts, like tree, love, hand, eye, time.
Shaving off, right?
This is making, this is enslaving.
This is making us into little objects, square-like things that can be manipulated, exchanged as
value, while we and our ecosystems, which are actually the only thing we have that make
us human and alive and intelligent, they lift us up on their backs, while we and the ecosystems
are being burned down.
Information and metrics.
Essentially, a kind of a demonic technological projection, right?
Again, though, it's bad, the thing about technology, as long as we're intelligently
using and interacting with it, we are not.
It's a God, unmanaged God, purely free over us right now.
It's building people and subcultures in its image, which are all false, they're corporations.
In a corporation, you have a falsified role, made of measurements, you can't be human.
And then you have to come back across that divide over into the land where you're supposed
to be human.
How do you do that?
You see what's happening to my face here, just in the light, in the normalization?
It doesn't really work.
Notice how this side is still kind of human, which would be this side, by the way, because
that's how our mind works.
And this side is just blown out.
You can't see it, which is the left side, which is actually the side that believes in
both sides.
The side that is still being shown is actually the side that only believes there's one half
of the body.
You have a stroke, this side of the brain starts lying and saying, this side of the body doesn't
exist.
That's a stranger, someone left it here.
That's not me.
I don't have to take care of that.
Somebody else's business.
It's half a being.
It's the measurement half.
It's got an argument.
An hypothesis that wants to compare you to, it's a court case embodied as human culture
on earth.
Courts are wrong.
Intelligent cultures, that's the first priority.
If courts are your first priority, well, that's what you become.
That's what your mind becomes.
You get half a person, half the light.
From now on, every drink of water you take, it's half of something else.
Every word you read, half of something else.
Every word you make, half of something else that you don't even want to make.
See, because it's been normalized and changed away from something like this, okay, which
is really natural and leads to another structure like itself, right?
One, one unifying body, one thinking member, four working members, two sections, three
sections, my body.
This is also like a pot of beings because this is their purpose and their agreement
