They are just unbridled belief in the power of false authorities instead of the actual
authority of mutuality in human relation, in ecological relation, with our minds, bodies,
worlds, future and history.
Our history means something.
It calls us to excellence in the same way the process of our future does.
So the only way we can do that is like this, like a hand.
This is intelligent.
This is not.
You can't do things with just this.
That's why all of the ruling, sort of the false ruling people and the false intelligent,
excuse me, the false religion people, right, a real religion lifts everybody.
Now, end of story.
It's not a ruler of judgment ever, period, done, no more, no more judgment.
A real religion, something that it's actually, religion actually means it's about this purpose
that links us back together.
It's not about stories about evil sky gods and to put you in hell.
What will put you in hell is people who tell you those stories.
They're false rulers, both sides, right?
Science and hypothesis and law.
And then, you know, spirit stories and new age fictions and gurus who aren't really
making any, they're not lifting anybody up above them.
If you see a real, a real, how should we put it, not a guru or a teacher, how should we
put it?
What is this?
If you see a real child who understands their role possibilities, they will lift experts
far above them and the experts will resist and try and jump, you know, back down and
crush the child.
The child would slip them above them, above them, above them, above them, above them.
So when you see someone come along who just takes another person and sky rockets them
even above themselves in the ability to see and think and relate with other beings and
ecologies and animals and things, when you see a person like that, that's what a leader
is supposed to look like.
It's someone who lifts other beings up above them right away.
So if you saw like a teacher who showed up on the scene and taught like four or five people
who rapidly exceeded that woman and then she disappeared or became their student and then
they kept playing this role back and forth, now you've got intelligence moving forward
in time.
No frozen teacher thing, no frozen student thing, no, no, no, no, no.
We go together learning together.
All the students in a school have roles that lead the teacher.
That's how it's supposed to be in our culture.
That's the idea of democracy.
We promote excellence, not mediocrity that comes from false, instant, processed, phony
rewards.
Role's together within for each other from now on in everything in this moment.
This is your invitation with you a thousand percent.
I will totally make this with you.
We're making that right now if you're just even watching or jobs.
We can have a little of both, but if we have mostly this, we're not allowed to be human.
We're going to shatter over here.
Our groups will shatter.
Our minds will shatter because they're made of this role reflection here, this playing
of different roles.
We need that the same way we need food or light, the sunlight actually, real light in
the right timeframe, by the way, the same way we need to be free of the constant need
