that was unusual.
I only got a glimpse of her.
But if I just had the rest of the day to go over that, I would learn the most astonishing
things because I know how to apply metrics that aren't formal.
They're informal, swarming little pods of metric elements in my mind.
They just play with data.
They just swarm over it like clouds.
I don't have to do it formally.
Some people call this intuition, others call it psychism.
Some people call it expertise.
I want to tell you a little secret.
The most work I ever did in an hour of my life, ever, okay?
I did for an employer when I wasn't at work and was not being paid.
That was the most work I ever did in an hour of my life.
Now the second most work I ever did in an hour of my life was for an employer who paid
me five dollars.
The least work I ever did in one hour of my life was for someone who desperately needed
an actual human being to assist them.
In that hour I did no work at all.
I learned more probably than in any other similar working hour of my life and I was paid a thousand
dollars not because I charged anything, I charged nothing, nothing, that's how much
I charged because that's how much work I did.
I may have saved that person's actual life and possibly her whole family.
I may have saved them millions of dollars.
That's how much work was required.
So over here I have two instances, one where I got paid nothing for the most work I ever
did in my life.
The other when I got paid five dollars for the most work I ever did in my life.
Over here I have something completely different, I have service where I get to have a role
and become a being that is liquid.
I don't have a set identity and in that role I have abilities that go far beyond anything
I've ever allowed to be over here.
Now the most money I've ever been paid for an hour of actual work for an actual employer
was seven hundred and fifty dollars for an hour of actual work.
Now I want to tell you a secret about this mountain of money over here.
It's a really weird and unexpected secret.
Other people have talked about it.
There's a gentleman who wrote a book, forgive me since I've only just been introduced to
him for not remembering his name.
It might be Richard Koch but I really can't remember so I may have to correct myself on
that.
His book was I think called the 80-20 principle and the idea is that 80% of what we do is
extraneous and really just making a mess of things and it's actually a big problem.
But if we really want to do anything excellent to get outside the cell of our easily accessible
sort of instantaneous false fulfillments, false roles, false identities, false payoffs, false
rewards, false tasks, false methods, false skills, I want to tell you a secret about
this side over here, the money side of the work and then we'll talk about this side over
here, the money side of being ourselves together with and for each other in the world every
moment from now on, two different things, work, a job and life, changing roles in relational
symphonies with the entire history of life on earth, all the beings around you right
now and generating the future ahead of us rather than just receiving the results of
our kind of rampant stupidity, egoic stupidity as a species and as individuals and as collectives
in the moment.
Again, no religion, no science, no politics, I've got nothing to sell here, we're just
going to talk about playing with these two ideas.
