This is a matter of just look at organisms.
You don't have to be a scientist or a guru or religion person or a logistician or an
artist or anyone to understand this every single being.
You look in the eye of another being.
You understand all these things immediately.
I'm not even telling you things you don't know.
I'm only saying things that I think are very difficult for us to speak clearly together
that are absolutely crucial for us to realize right now together within for each other not
for any other purpose for our world, for our ecologies, for the animalian basis of life
on earth, you know, the forests, the living places, the water, the sky.
It's really simple.
It doesn't, again, it doesn't require any kind of philosophy.
If you don't have water and sky, you die.
There's no other way.
You can make up any story you want, have court cases till the end of time.
Be my guest.
Bring every kind of ruler you can imagine.
I'll be happy to, you know, I'll be happy to stand in on the side of life and human
beings and having, building roles together that are playful and extremely intelligent.
When we do this, because we don't have to be afraid when we do this and we always have
to be afraid when we do this, we do this.
Our intelligence skyrockets.
It gets like, I don't even know what the magnification value is, but let's say three factors of what
would be available to any of us.
And the more, the more true and beautiful our purposes and the more powerful our agreement
and commitment, because our purpose is actually true and not just a style thing or money making
scheme.
What happens is the whole history of life on earth gets behind us with that.
So when we have a purpose that beautiful, we can become something unlike has ever been
seen on earth by playing together in a way that just, it just, all it does is take the
fictional mess that makes us seem distinct away and let us form these really intelligent
service oriented, rescue and learning oriented, problem solving oriented teams.
That's all.
We're meant for this.
We're born for it.
We were evolved for it.
Nature raised us up for this.
And we've been doing the opposite.
We've been burning all of that down and chopping this off with really ridiculous ideas and
then getting all of these people fighting and then putting these people on top of them
with a bunch of rulers and then funneling cash and power up to these people.
So just go rocketing up the ecosystems, the future of life on earth, our intelligence,
our ability to form relationships, ecologically and a million that are mutually beneficial
for our own minds, cultures and futures destroyed.
And then we're blamed for the outcomes of that and charged to go back to work to try
to repair it and buy things like health insurance to try to help us be human in the two minutes
we have to do so over here where we're not serving machines and masters who care nothing
about our survival except as data points.
The NSA will preserve your data as an organ of your government in the United States.
The NSA will preserve your data but not your child, not your health.
You see how dangerous that is?
Because pretty soon they're going to start burning you down just to get the data.
Well, what kind of data can we get when we burn them down?
They're already doing that.
Now, they aren't a big conspiracy.
