I cared nothing about this mess at all.
I wanted to find out what nature was.
How would you find out from here?
Anyway, that's a separate story.
My point is this, jobs which make us false people and it's like one of these, not like
one of these, it just cuts us off and it measures us and then gives us little tokens about that
which we can give those tokens away to get other representations of things that aren't
roles or lives like films and stories and things.
Or roles which are like the heroic roles that we see actors take on in films that rock stars
seem to portray, excuse me, I just had breakfast, I'm digesting food, that we get so excited
about and you know, sports stars and authors and all the people we adore, philosophers
and gurus and spiritual leaders and the cultural leaders, the technologists, the scientists,
all of these people above us, but we just kind of push down below them like looking up
in adoration when where's our role, where did it go?
A child doesn't want to be just a spectator.
They want to play the roles together, to enact them, to emerge into the world in themselves
in this beautiful, changing, unspecified intelligence of mutuality that comes from this thing we
actually don't count.
We count this as five.
There's a lot of brightness because of the light.
I'm just going to let it be because it's a natural light and the camera doesn't deal
with it very well.
See the machine is shaving off what you're seeing.
That's the problem right there.
It's normalizing it.
See once you've got that normalization, you're over here in measurement land, okay?
You're in the place where this thing becomes God and it doesn't really exist, it's just
a theory.
It's just like that weird God over here on the other side that's supposed to hate and
despise you.
Not any more than your own mind does.
There is a God, there must be something.
There are orders of intelligence that are unified, let's just say that, and it doesn't
stop with us.
We're done.
That's the end of that comment.
What that means is wide open to speculation, but let's just be really clear.
Religion is about the idea that there is an order of intelligence above mankind.
It's that simple.
That's all there is.
You either have to say, I absolutely don't believe there could be an order of intelligence
above mankind, or you have to say that the arguments about religion are about something
that people are confused about, because all it really is, is that there's other intelligence,
and ours is probably in relation with it.
Let's face it, we're buried in it on earth.
I think we're in relation with other intelligences, okay?
So both sides of this argument can just calm down, because these people have a measuring
stick as a God, and they're saying these people are crazy?
I'm sorry.
These people are both nuts out of their minds, okay?
There's no such thing as a hypothetical measuring stick that applies to all things.
That normalization means you can't see my face.
It's fading away.
In the digitization, watch, I can make it fade more, just by moving.
Now, if you were here with me, we wouldn't be having this problem.
