You know, all those guys who say they rule, well, there's about three or four men on earth
who have any idea what this is.
And there's hundreds of children, but by the time they can speak, they won't be able
to say anymore.
And there's a few people who spin things that know what this is.
But the representation, you're never ever, no living being should ever be compared to
one of these in any possible way, except in the most sort of playfully gentle, convenience
ways of learning and making toys together to help each other become more insightful,
more intelligent, and more like a unified team of beings.
Because what's happening to us is we're being broken away from groups and then measured
against this.
And this is held above us, right?
How much do you earn?
How important is your job?
You know, how beautiful are you?
How thin?
How abundantly large are you?
How short?
How tall?
Where do you stand on the intelligence scale?
How relationally intelligent are you with other beings?
How financially intelligent are you?
How educationally or intellectually intelligent?
How creatively intelligent, right?
How physically intelligent?
How communicationally intelligent?
How do you consume?
What's your consumer intelligence?
What's your spectator intelligence?
What's your theory of fan of?
Why?
All these little measurements all over the place, right?
Pretty soon.
You got all these metrics, yeah?
Metrics.
In fact, we get replaced by metrics.
That's what's happening on the internet.
Google is making billions of dollars building intelligences from these little metrics.
They actually just measure your face, right?
And they turn like this, right?
And which eye is up?
And which one's open?
And which one's closed?
Are you smiling on this side or that side?
I can do the same thing.
That's why I'm intelligent.
When I see someone walking down the street, I see a signal.
Not just one, like a thousand, okay?
I just saw a woman with a dog and I saw her for about three seconds.
I don't remember everything about her.
She had a lavender shirt, black pants, red shoes.
The dog was brown and white.
It weighed about 14 pounds, it was a puppy.
She had blonde hair, it had a black ring bun.
She was wearing something under her lavender top and there was something on her right wrist
