to serve machines and masters.
We need to have the service that is zero work, zero rushing, can be human and discover what
that means because let me tell you, and I promise you this is true, the simplest pleasures
of this aspect of strange complimentary pole.
Simplest pleasures over here are more beautiful than the wildest religions stories of heaven.
The simplest ones, the sophisticated ones are so beautiful you won't be able to survive
the ecstasy.
You won't.
So we're getting something really, really wrong and deadly over here and it's crushing
everything down, whereas right in our hands together, actually in the shape of our hands
and its relationship to our bodies and relationships, is an answer so simple and clear and so true
and human that really all of life on earth would agree, I mean everyone would agree and
let's face it, if life on earth has any intelligence, it wants us to have roles because jobs are
killing everything, everything, they're destroying everything, we can't be jobs, we can't have
false collectives.
In 2014, seven billion people traveling around the sun one time being seven billion life
years of human activity and either growth, decimation, impact, wonder, shock, war, development.
We need to make the right choices in the most intelligent way possible.
There is no rigid structure that can provide that way because we are unspecified.
Reality is unspecified.
Nature is a field of possibility and the best way to navigate that field is intelligently
together within for each other and that field, not for false ideas, fake rulers, metrics,
forms of intelligence that become engaged in machine dominance, whereas we can build
better forms of that intelligence together, faster.
They're getting 8% of our intelligence and crushing us down and giving us nothing back.
Together we can easily and immediately get 50% of our intelligence, they can still have
their eight and we can use that too and then we can just develop on that basis.
This is a zero sum game, we're going to die over here right now.
Over here we're going to open the gate to heaven, literally the heaven of human relationship,
ecological recognition, animalian intelligence, relational intelligence, perspectival intelligence,
but most of all, the thing that we're missing that all of nature has and we don't even see,
purposive intelligence.
This is actually the basis of intelligence itself.
If you lose that, the foundation is shatters and you just get really dangerous little shards
running around pretending that they're gods and fighting each other.
We need to bring that all back under, how should we say, a rubric of self-correcting,
non-dogmatic, non-rigid, how should I put it, intimacy, sensing relation, so that we're
self-correcting and we're intelligently playing different roles together and we're learning
all kinds of different new roles constantly together.
That's so exciting that I don't want to do anything else, I just want to do that all
day long.
I don't care about films, I don't care about money, I just want to be with humans and
environments learning and living.
If you take a few moments and think about the things that we've explored here together,
I have a feeling you'll understand that both sides of our face, really all the way filled
in, the music for our actual voices and hearts, together, within for each other, that's the
future and this thing over here, it's going to become a minor player in where we're going
or we're going to be the minor player, more minor each time we iterate that paradigm.
Thanks for joining me, we'll be exploring together again very soon, bye bye for now.
