Yeah, there's stuff we call dreaming.
Many of you will understand what I am talking about if I say that the position prior to
the origination of a gesture or thought or idea or sentence or musical riff, right?
That position before we collapse and disambiguate down to a specific product.
Position is filled with kind of potential, right?
It's very, it's incredibly fertile.
It doesn't mean it will be fertilized and result in a product, but sometimes it will.
And dreaming, I think actually, is the origin and corollary of the waking world minds that
you and I are familiar with.
And that's a fairly bold claim.
Most have learned it has a lot to do with memory and how it's formed and maintaining
it and organizing it, but I think things are vastly more interesting even than that.
Dreaming has the capacity to form kinds of memory that have purposes our waking world
experience would never imagine, let alone authorize or admit.
So it creates this incredibly diverse, unusual underlying aspect for consciousness to refer
to that's so mysterious and sometimes alien that without it we'd have grave difficulty.
There are no conditions under which a raven would ordinarily allow me to approach it that
closely.
I was within like two feet of that raven.
I'm sorry, the robin.
I was so overwhelmed by the experience that I forgot what I was saying.
There's no situation under which a raven would ordinarily allow me to approach that closely.
Now I'm going to take these earphones out because they're actually not connected to anything
and I can hear the world around me better.
In any case, what I am suggesting is that our dreaming experience is not merely the origin
of our structured memory.
It allows us to structure memory and thus invent whole functions of relation with instrumentalities
of memory and it's precisely because dreaming is diverse and complex and sometimes bizarre
and beautiful and mysterious and essential.
It's because of these features of dreaming, I think.
Well, my dreaming mind doesn't like the word because, it's really funny.
The faculties with which we are capable of interacting with the physical world while
we are awake originate in dreaming, I think, partly, right?
