In any case, this morning it did.
Here's where I am now.
It's very difficult to put this dream into words at all, primarily because it took place
entirely in a non-human mode.
The other two dreams, in one of them, they were sort of science fiction-y, right?
In one of them, there was a space station where humans could put on this sort of nanosuit
that would transform them into another animal that was not entirely non-human, although
some were very closely, close to being entirely non-human.
And there was a complex array of adventures that took place in that really strange context.
And in another dream, there was a planet where humans had been there for 20 or 30 years.
And of course, I'm not telling you the dreams, I'm just telling you some plot elements.
The humans had been there for some time, right?
Maybe one or two generations, maybe three.
And on this planet, all of the life-forms were mind-alteringly symbiotic with humans,
so it produced all these bizarre acceptations of the faculties of mind that humans can have.
There was a small girl who could telepathically teach you 10 or 15 languages in a few moments.
There were these sort of warrior people and bizarre healers and all kinds of things, and
it was really exotic and incredibly realistic at the same time.
But the dream that I had last night, this morning actually, was so unusual that in order to
frame it, I just have to tell you about what it was for, sort of, or what took place, which
was that me and a team of five people, males and females, I don't know the exact number,
and it doesn't even really matter, that would be nice to know.
We were somehow introduced, boy, this is going to be really difficult and maybe even embarrassing.
We were introduced to a context in which an extremely complex vehicle that had many dimensions
in which it could travel, not just space or time, identity, organism.
In dimensions we don't actually think of as traveling in, though certainly humans can
understand the idea of traveling in the dimension of organism.
Because we have this narrative, a reasonable one, that we are the evolutionary product
of primate, you know, ancient primates.
So me and the team were introduced into this vessel that was, I don't know how to, I don't
have any experience of what it was located in.
It wasn't merely located in space-time, but it wasn't located on the ground.
We were introduced, and once we were introduced we were inside it.
