kinds, right, has a determinative influence on the forms of mind they can compose in relation
with phenomenon, right?
And the attendant faculties naturally emergent from that mind.
And one of the things I find is that when we return dimensionality to our common human
experience, when there are forms of ambiguity that are as meaningful under the right, in
the right relationship as forms of deambiguation, right, as determination is, there are aspects
of relation with ambiguity that can actually produce more value than disambiguation can.
More degrees of freedom.
And this is part of the essential, essentially soul-nourishing and spirit-nourishing and
heart-nourishing and mind-nourishing effects of art, songs, paintings, poetry, literature,
dance, theater.
It's getting a little dark now here.
And soon again, it will be time for dreaming.
There is no book that will teach you what you uniquely carry.
No, there's something better than any book could ever be.
For a book is a kind of representation of dreaming, and thus it is the structure's remains
of the pure undifferentiated potential that began, the process.
And that as yet undifferentiated potential, and how it gently collapses toward identity.
That's where the secret is alive.
That's where you can touch it, and it will recognize you, and you will recognize it.
That's one of the sacred origins of the mind, of consciousness itself.
Now, I don't want us to worship dreams, or take them seriously, but let us pay intelligent
attention, yes?
Let us pay intelligent attention, for here we have something that once influenced by
the waking mind's familiar cultures, and capable of completely departing them.
And that's a very valuable doorway, that's a valuable doorway.
I don't necessarily believe anything anyone has told me about dreams, but I don't want
my own relationship with dreaming or my ideas about it to be too thoroughly colored by those
of experts.
And maybe that sounds reckless, but it's not as though I've ignored the experts.
What I'm saying is, there's so much more, there's so much more.
And the phenomenon is not only infinitely complex, it's one of the few places we can
authentically touch the before of the minds with which we experience and evaluate our
