And hopefully, if others have such experience, and I presume that most, many of us do, if
not all of us, whether or not we are capable of remembering it, and thus becoming conscious
of our dreaming experience.
Here are some people slacklining.
And this is a tree that I adore, this tree is incredible.
One year they painted an orange ring around it, and I was terrified that they might cut
this tree down.
Another time, I was in this park, and I saw a very beautiful young woman, near my age.
Look at this incredible creature, I mean, this is the real thing, yeah, this tree is amazing.
I saw this beautiful young woman, and I said to myself, I saw her in a different nearby
location, and I said, wow, she's so beautiful, if she, if when I finish my Tai Chi, she is
in that tree, I'm going to ask her to marry me.
Sure enough, I finished Tai Chi, guess what, she was in that tree.
Another time from these trees over here, I mean, I've had some real adventures with animals
here, adventures that were, that bordered on dreaming.
Yeah, and those trees, from that branch of that, probably Sycamore, a crow, launched
itself in the upside down flying position and flew right over my head one day.
And that's not the beginning or the end of that story.
And here, there used to live an incredible eucalyptus tree, that when I first came here,
up here dead for many years, I used to visit it all the time.
And then one year, it suddenly just leapt back to life.
I liked to think I had something to do with that, maybe that's slightly megalomaniacal.
Here's the view of my neighborhood from here, it's pretty crazy.
Although the camera really doesn't capture it, it's the thing you have to see with your
eyes, right?
The camera is not, yeah, it's just not the same.
I was worried they took out this eucalyptus tree, but it fell.
I talked to one of the arborists here, came down in the storm, so they removed it.
It makes me wonder if there might be some technology, it doesn't seem incredibly profitable
for humans too, to engineer it, but a technology that could allow you to replant the tree.
In any case, dreams.
And I'm being very casual tonight, so my apologies for anyone who's expecting something a little
more sophisticated, though stay tuned.
