And once we were inside it, movement between sections of the vessel was equivalent to slightly
unpredictable yet similar transformations in form, identity, activity, way of communicating,
meaning, root for all of us.
So like three of us would change maybe to one possible, oh god this is so hard to describe.
We were like complex science fiction function animals that were hyper-biomimetic and a mechanical
and yet had capacities that exceeded those of ordinary machines, capacities that would
exceed anything ordinary machines could ever do, which is the nature of biology.
But it's not always apparent because we can select a mechanical hyperbole like computation
or weight lifting, right, and you know you can build a machine to lift, well, most weights.
In any case, as we traveled inside this vessel we transformed, and there were people trying
to teach us things, and there were people hunting us, and the people who were hunting
us eventually caught up with us, but then they just taught us more about the unimaginably
bizarre context in which we were having this adventure, and the unimaginably bizarre consequences
of having this adventure.
There weren't, if there were humans in the dream it was very early in the dream, and
after that what we were was not human, and it wasn't, it was so exotic that it makes
all the ideas that humans have ever imagined of aliens seem trivially, like you know, trivially
clumsily crude, huh?
So we went through these transformations inside this vessel, we went to different sections
of the vessel via tubes and elevators and things, and each time we changed section
we transformed, sometimes all to the same thing, sometimes all to different things.
And none of these things were even modestly human.
They were all hyperboles of aspects of the combination of dimensions of identity, like
shape, form, function, meaning, math, activity, character, identity.
They were, they were like these little localized physical hyper structures of aspects that
you'd only get if you were in another, if you were in a dimension that allowed you to
see into the dimensions that we see only superficially.
This was unlike any experience I've ever had, very intense and profoundly weird and extremely
difficult to remember.
Like I remember a few scenes from the dream, but because the context and the activity were
so unusual, so unique, so novel, it was almost as if I didn't have a form of memory capable
of doing anything, like of recording that kind of stuff, because it contained layers
that I'm not used to seeing at the same time, right?
