I'm not used to experiencing at the same time as myself.
And it's frustrating that my memory isn't working better, you know, at the moment, because
this is something really worth carrying a little bit for me.
So this is where I am now.
Now recently, I've begun to wonder about how, wonder at the relationship between narrative
and forms of memory that can be integrated to produce not merely minds, but faculties,
new faculties, faculties that we either had when we were children and lost, or could have
developed what we're never encouraged to.
I think there are many senses that are essential to our humanity, which we, many of us, have
become divided from.
And when I say that, I'm not pretending that I live undivided, only that I remember and
sometimes feel their, their diaphanous hint.
It's great to hear the birdsong more than motors.
So yeah, this dream, totally alien, integrated dimensions of meaning and identity that ordinarily
in waking consciousness have to be distinct, and did that with essentially physical prostheses
or, you know, physical examples in the dream of changing into another kind of life form.
That was crazy in it.
These life forms were only sometimes hominid, hominidal.
They were, I don't even understand how to say it, the dimension that we ordinarily conceive
of as relative to physical embodiment and expression and shape.
In the dream, that dimension was, it did not have the same meaning.
It had the meaning of like form, purpose, identity, function, making.
And I wouldn't be surprised to discover that what I had an experience of was something
like what it is to be, for example, a bacterial, an array of bacterial hypercolonies, right,
that are all symbiotically linked and exchanging information, you know, trillions of times
per second, live at an entirely different rate of lifetime than we do.
So that maybe, you know, a month is one of our hours and there's 30 trillion of them
in a single human body, never mind the extended, right?
But yeah, it was very super science fiction-y in a way that was so far beyond anything I've
experienced before that it pretty much establishes a new class, right?
This thing's in a class by itself.
And as I said recently, I've been reflecting on the relationship between narratives forming
kinds of memory that are collected, you know, that a person's collected inventory of those
