These are languages or frameworks in which a signal can be transmitted across any distance
any time, any group of beings and any particular beings.
It's a very old network that existed long before life on earth.
Life on earth grew up in the sunlight of this network and our minds were forged in the sunlight
of this network in my, from the perspective that I'm playing with together with you here.
If the crow
makes its pulsed call.
And I make its pulsed call or emulate it badly, crudely.
The crow becomes aware
that there's a non-crow mind interacting with it.
That changes everything. That changes what kind of mind I can have. That changes the crow.
Perhaps only momentarily and very locally, but that momentary change gets transmitted.
Blue and red are well-known signals.
Whether they're known by things with eyes or not.
But there seems to be a sort of a root signal.
A signal of recognition.
And I think we use and seek this signal.
Though again, it's dangerous to make face noises about it.
It can be emulated, but only crudely.
And in the domain where the signal functions, signals that mimic it are
are attended appropriately. Let's put it that way.
So it can be faked and we can be in a sort of phony overlay
in consciousness or awareness or intelligence where it looks like the signal is being emitted.
There's a resemblance of the signal. And sometimes resemblances of the signal are important,
but sometimes they lead to mimics.
Signal of recognition.
In a child's language.
The signal of recognition comes way before language.
It's not just visceral. It's something that pulses in the core of our essence, naturally, primordially.
But in child's language, it would be something like,
I remember you from before we were born.
As if, oh, I recognize you from the body of origin place.
Right? Before we were even distinguished physically, you know, or in a thousand other ways.
Oh, I remember you, the sun. Oh, I remember you, the moon. Oh, I remember you, the tree.
I remember you, the mouse. I remember you, my brother. I remember you, my sister. I remember you, my mother.
I remember you, my son, my daughter. I remember you, grandfather, grandmother. Oh, I remember you from before.
And the signal is hard to fake because the actual thing is so resonantly deep and rich
that even though it's uniquely deep and rich in any given, you know, actual situation or relationship,
it's hard to fake because that richness is really deep and resonant.
