And human social interactions and mating behavior and stuff, it orbits this,
this signal of recognition. Oh, I remember you. I do. From the before, from the before of language,
from before ideas, before skeletons, before, you know, worlds, I remember you from before everything.
We are medikin, right? We were kin before there were kin.
And everything alive and every intelligence, it knows this signal.
And each of them respond in ways unique to how they're embodied, but they all respond.
There is no real word for this, but love, authentic love, presuming there is some inauthentic love,
is one of the consequences of there having been signal of recognition activity.
Yeah.
The children have it very naturally. The adults have, you know, each one uniquely has some or
is lost it or it's occluded.
There's something deeply sacred about this matter and it's a primordial matter.
We ache to emit and receive the signal of recognition. And this is deep, deep in the foundations of our
nature as social animals, as social beings, as social humans.
We refer to it in common English as being seen and not being seen.
Visual analogy is appropriate but narrow compared to the actual depth because we
we certainly don't just mean with his eyes, he saw me with her eyes. She's, she saw me.
Coyote Scott.
So there's something sacred there.
And we must be careful about knowledge.
It's, it emits this, it has a strange gravitic quality, right, that
we should resist complete collapsing into
and we should be sensitive. It would be well if we were sensitive,
would be well if I could be sensitive, learn to be more sensitive about where
my relationship with knowledge and intellect and theories and models overwhelms
the upper orders of my mind or I become really identified with some
framework or theory or behavior that rather than leading me toward insight and learning
is actually making me dumber every time I grab onto it, right?
If we preserve a space above the collapse for consciousness,
then our intelligence becomes less prone to drag us, to drag like awareness,
identity, awareness, you know, all the way down into tokens where essentially it's
counterfeited, right? But the product looks really shiny and good a lot of the time,
so this is part of why it's deceptive.
Maybe if I'm very lucky,
in my video today, there's a
fragrance or the flavor of that
signal of recognition,
a fundamental mutuality in violet,
in beauty.
