toy, right, a way of looking. And again, what I'm trying to say is that I don't know what I'm talking
about. I'm trying to see, not know, right, trying to learn to see. And once I get involved in making
face noises, or before that, like chains of thought, though I'm not entirely against those games,
when I'm paying attention carefully from above the field of play, right,
I don't trust them a lot, or it is common that I find them untrustworthy, is more careful
language. And again, there's plenty of exceptions. I'm not dismissing the whole field of play.
I'm more saying, hmm, there's some fundamental qualities of
the scalar domains of our consciousness, right? If I put, for example, as I heard Roger Penrose do,
he made a toy of little spheres, or I think he would probably prefer manifolds, and I would too,
but where consciousness is out here, and that way lies mystery,
we're actually now, excuse me, awareness is out here, the big one, and that way lies mystery,
and then consciousness as a subdomain in awareness, and then intelligence
as a subdomain in consciousness in awareness. And
there's dangerous gravity wells in all three of these fields, spheres,
but particularly in intelligence, and that's where knowledge lives.
And I'm laughing because
ordinarily, in English, in common parlance, knowledge is an asset and a virtue.
As if it had this quality objectively, right? As if that quality were implicit in knowledge itself.
But we do well to see the shadow of this thing that is at least
a corollary of the, a number of very old stories, but particularly in Genesis, where
I think the story is very weird, right? And I like that it's weird, and it certainly
can't be interpreted merely, literally, and make any sense at all, nor do I think
that was the intention of the authors and the editors.
But it's not merely analogical either, it's got this peculiar quality of timeless pointing
at an actual disaster somewhere in the proto-history of our species, or the spirit of our species,
or both, or, you know, there's this real problem that intrudes.
And it's referred to as knowledge, but I may have this wrong. I think the Hebrew word is
doth, ti, dalet, aleph.
Yeah, I can't remember the exact spelling.
But essentially, knowledge is equated with death in this parable, and it's, I think,
it's a meta-parable, right? It's, it's pointing at something so fundamental
that if you make one move without noticing it, you'll never notice it,
because you'll just fall down the path of that first move.
And there are aspects of our consciousness, you know, there are aspects in our awareness,
and consciousness, and intelligence that are precisely prone to this kind of mistake.
They can, they have the property of falling off the cliff of their first move.
And this is because the first move, for example, saying, I don't know what I'm talking about,
changes the entire future. The, the possibility space of all futures are changed by that first
move. And we can understand this analogically if we think about the conception of an organism,
