Those things are primarily toxic, harmful,
and they're like the gravestones where relation and intelligence died.
And this isn't the only thing knowledge is,
as I've said a number of times.
What knowledge becomes for us emerges primarily from
the ways we learn or are
scripted to enact very crude methods compared to those we are capable of naturally.
So the problem with knowledge
isn't, it's complex.
The low-hanging fruit is really toxic. Up near the top of the tree, things get better.
There's one way of thinking about it.
All of life, with the possible exception of humans,
is viscerally engaged in recognition. And ordinary organisms, ants, one of the things
I wanted to say earlier was, I wish I could advance
the inconceivable courage of a mouse.
Because most of the courage I advance, although there are human forms,
but it doesn't seem to measure up much to the constant,
actual embodied necessity of, my life is on the line, every move I make from birth till death.
Everything I will encounter will try to either kill me or eat me, mostly, with a few exceptions.
And I'm a tiny little thing and all the other animals are gigantic.
And humans have technology.
Mouse killing technology, like they invented whole technologies to wipe out my people.
So yeah, I wish I could have the courage of a mouse.
And I have great reverence for mice, it's not just a joke.
In my view, they're like the explorers of death.
They've died in ways that other creatures have never imagined and hopefully will never experience.
I mean, not, you know, they're like the lab animal, there's just the mice.
Those things are, those beings, I have great reverence for them to put it mildly.
And I wish I could advance their courage.
You know, if I had a shield, it wouldn't be Darren the lion hearted, it would be Darren the mouse hearted.
I believe in those incredibly intelligent little creatures that are much older than our species
in more than one way, right? They're not merely older.
There's been more generations of mice than our species will ever, you know, get near.
Right. So there's this lineage age thing that magnifies over populations and out distances flat time.
Right. Yeah, I wish I had the courage of a mouse.
In the between of all beings, in relation.
There's a signaling.
There's a primordial signaling language.
In fact, there's a number of them.
