and the man is emitting a signal to the father. They're both emitting different sort of
polarities of signals usually, but not always and there's a mix, it's a complex mess.
Yeah, the problem with knowledge is that it has the propensity in our species
to both falsify identity, right, meaningfully accessible relational roles
and spaces, relational spaces, can just collapse those into declarations. Oh, it's a tree. It's just a
bunch of trees. Meanwhile, in that person's mind, their relationship with identity has
collapsed into a simple tokenized declaration. It's an artifact of relationships not had,
it's an artifact of intelligence not developed, right? It's like a little badge you get for
defecting from everything that is rich and meaningful and true and profound in human life
because you found in language a structure that you, let's, you know,
do you want to be the structure? Somehow even, it would be bad if the way we use language
merely collapsed the identities outside of us, but when it does that, it's collapsing our own mind
with it, right? So our own relation space, our own, the dimension where our imagination dwells
and plays and is deeply involved in selectively transmitting
otherwise inconceivable assets and faculties and opportunities for relation and identity and
role together, right? And alone. All of this stuff is prone to just collapse into things
we can spit out of our mouths. And it's, again, very ironic for me to be aware of this while
making face noises because I'm making face noises. So there's kind of a guideline for me
that helps me resist
believing what I'm saying. And
and wandering
and putting together a little basket, right, of inspirations, wonders, questions, passions,
um, playful imperatives. As I wander, that's not the same thing as spitting out some theory or
even an analogy, right, which I just used. I think that's goofy, uh, because my mind is sort of
right noticing its own. It's noticing the irony. Yeah, it's noticing the irony.
I don't really know what I'm doing, but I'm a little suspicious. I'm suspicious, I'm suspicious
about my own relationship with knowledge and that which I see enacted by other people and groups.
I'm very suspicious about this. At the same time, I'm not merely suspicious. Like I said,
I'm fascinated. I play in that field. I think I became suspicious because I noticed that sometimes
when I was feeling very profound emotions and some of them might be uncomfortable,
a number of them certainly were. I can easily depart that feeling of sort of existential insecurity
into complex, right, and again, to talk about this now, I'm starting to do it, right? I can't.
So I'm trying to balance between the awareness of, I don't know, these face-noise things.
And what about the feelings underneath that are, you know, charged and confusing and
and some of them painful or anxious or whatever?
So I have the propensity to fall off that same cliff
because I can easily appear skillful in language relatively easily. It requires some work.
And hopefully I appear skillful sometimes.
I can just sort of direct
