Hey everybody, thanks for joining me, I'm getting a little exercise in the smoke, slightly
better today, which is nice.
You may be in for a relatively incoherent bird walk today, because I'm trying to operate
outside my normal structure, and I thought to myself, I'm going to let the voices in
me that have no language or rarely speak, I'm going to invite them in, without knowing
how to do that, without knowing what that means, without an explanation, without even
a narrative, I just thought I'll make this gesture in my awareness, and it isn't like
I know what I'm doing or I'm good at it, I don't know what I'm doing.
In fact, it's worse than that, or maybe better.
I honestly don't know what I'm talking about, and that seems to be a kind of unstated prerequisite
for all kinds of things, that the people who are interesting to listen to know what
they're talking about, and surely there's a scope in which that's true, there's some
true value there, it's not the only true thing, it's not the only way to see.
But no, I honestly don't know what I'm talking about, and I'm, at once, speechlessly fascinated
with this stuff we point at with the word knowledge, ceaselessly fascinated with this,
and at the same time extremely suspicious, and terrified, but also mischievously frightened,
playfully frightened. There was a snail in a bad spot, so hopefully this is a better one.
So I decided I would have a very tiny adventure, I'm really good at this, it keeps getting
smaller but it's still there. I thought I would have a really tiny adventure and go
for a walk, and it isn't even really that I thought, and I'll need to back up here.
I think, I'll speak for myself, but I suspect it's uniquely familiar to nearly everyone,
this really quirky thing I'm going to try and point at. And one way to sort of joke
about it is, by the time I start making face noises, a significant portion of my awareness
has collapsed into something that closely resembles lying. Again, not always, but in
a way that's shot through our common relationships with speaking and thought. Our naivete about
the sophistication of the toys we're playing with in consciousness that our consciousness
tends to collapse into, so that awareness disappears and we become identified with the content with
the words, the words are very compelling. They're so compelling that with little more than words,
we can transform the mind of someone paying attention dramatically in a rainbow of ways.
And each of us has some unique local kind of visceral awareness, at least of this,
whether or not it's conscious. So, I don't really know what I'm talking about because it hasn't
collapsed. And I'm following but the most skeletal of agendas at the moment, though I have a couple
of little, you know, circles on my map, and I guess I have a map. However, sketchily described it
might be. So, it's tricky to be aware. Tricky's the wrong word I want. It's a bit adventurous to
be aware that as I become fascinated with language and ideas and thoughts and descriptions and
narratives and models and comparisons and accounting and all of these kinds of things. The spaciousness
of uncollapsed awareness is departing into those little tree branches. And so,
it's also ironic that I can make face noises about the problem with the collapse that comes
before face noises. The largely unacknowledged collapse, particularly when we're, you know,
