like a human being, for example, where a swarm of sperm,
a cloud of living organisms traverse this incredible, anciently evolved,
how am I even going to refer to that,
bio-relational hyper-structure?
They traverse the living, the embodied living history, not merely of mammals, but of life on
earth, anew, as if for the first time, and as if every moment this ever happened was being
re-instanced across the impossible gap, the gap between the parents first, right?
And then eventually, probably intelligently modulated by the fertile egg,
one of them lands on the membrane, penetrates it, electrochemically, probably,
in scientific jargon, but something else a lot more than that's going on there,
leaves its tail
comprised of a specific organelle out on the outside of the egg, it leaves,
if it were a rider, it leaves its horse on the other side of the membrane and departs one universe
and becomes a new universe inside a living mother.
So you can see how that first move, right, wherever we place it,
is it the birth of the mother and father, wherever in time you place the first move,
but you can select, we can narrow the scope down to,
which sperm penetrates the egg, and that's not merely a competition, it's a group effort, right?
It is as if the entire cloud of sperm are a single organism and individuals
and they promote, right, from within, they are continuously promoting
not just specific sperm but groups of sperm and eventually out of this process of ongoing
recursive promotion, a small cluster of actual candidates emerges
and from there the first move, right?
And that move becomes a human being, right? It transmits lineage assets across that gap between
the families and the mother, like the egg managing incoming contenders,
which there's some evidence for,
is catalyzing all of this
and is embodying the,
embodying the origin space, right, the before of embodiment.
But yeah, the problem, one of the problems is that our minds are oriented in such a way that
we can fall down. If we make the wrong very first move, the first cut matters most,
we can just fall off the cliff of bad moves thereafter
and continue on making face noises, as if nothing were amiss, right?
Because once we've lost what we see with, we only see the result of that loss
and so that starts to look normal and ordinary and trustworthy and repeatable and all kinds of things.
In that origin story,
I sometimes think of it as if, and as if thinking is helpful again,
I don't know what I'm talking about. Well, I should go back to the problem with knowledge,
but the mother's emitting a signal
