And living beings reach heartfully in presence toward other living beings.
As if there's a between space, right, as if the unique,
incredibly dimensionalized space between all participants in life on earth,
including from outside of time, but we'll keep it in time for now.
That between space lights up with transformations anytime we relate with anything at all.
Even in, even inanimate things, although the outcome of that
is of questionable value in a lot of cases. So I saw a guy,
there were, we were in a parking lot and there were many pigeons
because a woman feeds them there.
And a guy just, you know, threw his keys up in the air and all the pigeons, you know, they pulsed.
And you can explain that away with adaptation, threat response,
but you'll never encompass that phenomenon with those, those ideas ever.
It contains dimensions we don't have categories for. How will you encompass it in language?
This too is the problem of knowledge, right? Once you think you know,
once the human cognizium thinks it knows what's going on there, we've thrown away 98% of the universe
that we can't encompass for that little derivative. And then we've mistaken that
little derivative for the whole damn thing. We make the first mistake, the second mistake
encompasses everything, right? Because if you have the wrong idea about what organisms are,
how are you going to have a right idea? I mean, right in what context? Obviously not the actual
context, which is pulsing with, you know, centropic hypersystems of organismal relation
in the between of all beings, just like when that guy, you know, threw his key up, his keys
up, the birds pulsed, right? But he wasn't the only one there. I was there too, and I didn't pulse.
And the birds are relating with me of a certainty and I am relating with them and
the purposes and forms of relation transform that between, right? And they can light it up,
or they can darken it, or they can crush it, or they can
they can advance it into new superpositions by orders of magnitude, right? You can easily see
this between humans and dogs and cats, but it can happen with any kind of organism. And it can
happen with organisms themselves. And so there's this between place that's meta. It's like the
space where meta aliveness is, you know, pulsing and storming around and
inventing new ways to be beyond together. And that's really where everything's going on.
It's not over here in language. It's not over here in description, right? Either we're in that
relational space authentically in various dimensions and degrees, and hopefully those
grow over time explosively because they naturally are made to do this, or the first move, right,
collapses onto the side of declaration, abstraction, theorizing,
narritizing, confusing those products with our own identity, attaching to them,
collapsing awareness, consciousness, and intelligence into these little
chachkies
that are primarily
when misused or when used in contexts where this is inappropriate or damaging.
