the ongoing collapse of awareness into consciousness into intelligence, representational cognition.
I can just follow that thread. I'll make that first move, right, defect from those feelings.
And then I'll follow the tree of branches till I find something I can play with in a
way that to me seems somehow, I don't know what, good or insightful or charismatic or
whatever the qualities I'm after. And then I just keep making face noises.
And I don't have to admit the initial defection because it's generally unconscious anyway,
right? Nobody's conscious of that. Although it's my experience
that many people are conscious of that. And
in my experience, females are uniquely adapted for consciousness about this
or at least awareness of it, whether or not they know what to do
in the minefield of making language about it, right?
Many of the most intelligent people I know, and I'll admit it's not a huge group, but there's,
I mean, everyone's intelligent in their own way. But the people who sort of stand out is
really capable
users of mines, right, or makers of mines.
They're very, very careful about language, each in a unique way.
They might have some overlap with some of the others, but
they're aware of the traps. However, that awareness is embodied in them. They're aware of the traps of
declaration. They know, like, when you make a declaration, especially if you use the word is,
the dimensionality available disappears into that declaration. Dimensionality of meaning,
identity, perspective. Dimensionality of a sensible observer. All of these things collapse.
And while occasionally useful, if we play that game without awareness,
our minds end up collapsing into that mess. And we can't tell because our minds are what we tell with.
Right. So as those collapse, imagine a joke
that's so hilarious that each time you watch it, it makes you dumber. And if I've used this trope
before, forgive me, but it's still appropriate here. So there's a joke, right, that's so hilarious,
some skid or whatever, a video, that each time you watch it, you get dumber, which makes that same
skit funnier. So now you're in this recursive loop of it makes me laugh harder every time I see it,
and I get dumber every time I see it. I can't tell that I'm getting dumber, I can only tell that
that's funnier. And there's something like this in both individual intelligence and consciousness,
maybe even awareness. I've been certainly at the group level. There's all this stuff going on
where every time we touch it, we get dumber and that makes us want to touch it again right away
or need to or something. It's hard to overcome that except that
I mean, there's not a single, again, A, I don't know what I'm talking about and B,
there's not a single answer. But there's ingredients, right, that we know are useful.
And deeply meaningful social relation, identity, role, interaction, possibility space,
that stuff for humans, we need it as much as we need food.
And if we're starved over there, we're going to collapse toward low hanging, right, reward fruit
or counterfeit reward fruit.
