our speech is like a song. It has rhythms and tempo and once it begins, it sort of rolls itself along.
Not intrinsically, well, it's not intrinsically deceptive. It's
unself-deceiving. It's weirder than that. It has to do with how we learned and what we learned about
the toys we're playing with, toys capable of dominating. Our awareness, our consciousness,
our identity, our understanding, how we make meaning, which cuts we make in categories and
comparisons, which ones we don't, which ones we refuse to make, why all these things are wrapped
up in the cocoon of the developmental evolution of the consciousness of our species and the history of
both the choices made, you know, as peoples or as the entire branch of our species
and the choices made by individuals the relationships had and missed. All of this is folded into
our experience of consciousness, but worse than an iceberg, it's almost all hidden from us.
And what hides it are primarily ideas, language concepts, habitual uses of language collapsing
our consciousness into declarations. And so I'll often say when I'm
really close with someone else in a conversation or relating, we might be talking
and I'll suddenly say, oh, I don't trust my mouth about this.
I'm just trying to say that
I see many other people struggle with the same kind of awareness, though they're not
formally conscious of it. They're pre-parsing and pre-criticizing and pre-judging as if there
were a circle of people around them in the moment who would direct, you know, judgments at them
while they're trying to speak, right, they're trying to say something deeply felt
and there are particularly uniquely minded people in whom this inclination is
sort of become part of their
way of being in consciousness in such a deep way that it's almost physical, right, it's no longer
merely cognitive, it's become embedded in their nervous systems. And this is true to some degree
of all of us, I think. When we are enabled to look in these directions,
we can leap across the gap sometimes alone, sometimes together between
how our consciousness and awareness is entrained to collapse and its origin, right, prior to the
collapse-ness. And that aspect, it's as if we have like two other bodies, at least in the
perspective I'm holding at the moment. One of those bodies dwells in groups of humans
from just me and you to all of the humans in all kinds of different ways. One aspect of our
other body dwells there and there's another aspect that like that one
one, dwells in and with all of life on earth, every organism here.
And not just those that are here, those that have been, those that will be, we have relationships
each one of us uniquely. So in this toy, right, there's a human body, there's an all life body
and there's kind of a, you know, we could make the diagram however we want, but above that there's
the before, the origin, our body in origin. And this one down here is intimately relating up and down
this, these concentric spheres, right, which each one is very complex, but we can just make
them into circles or spheres. So we not only have access to, you know, in the perspective I'm
entertaining, we not only have access to these other bodies, our capacity to form awareness
arises in that relationship. And I'm not trying to say how things are, I'm just making a perspective
