I roll the dice, and I came up with you You roll the dice, came up with me
I never told you what did you do But I'm gonna tell you now and then I'll leave
Welcome back to Lady Babylon. This is a special edition. Tonight we're here on business.
We are here to enforce a transdimensional warrant. Someone is being indicted. Someone is being indicted.
And we are here to enforce that indictment process. That's all we're here to do. This has to be professional.
This has to be straight up. There is no personal interest in this. I will not be profiting. I do not take bribes.
Tonight we will look at the public's interest, and you and I will be officers of the Justice Department that belongs to the Saturnians. Welcome.
Thanks for coming. Everybody gets suited up. I know that you're ready to get into this. I know that you want to be a part of this action. I understand that.
And I thank you for your attention. Tonight we're gonna go in and it's a knock warrant. Yes. And what we'll do is we will notify of charges.
We'll notify, you know, announce the charges. Things are a little bit different. We'll read the Miranda rights that you don't have and we'll proceed picking into the very words of the person themselves.
Kids, this is to keep off the street. Those that are ready and waiting for you, I'm telling you, my beloved brothers and sisters, yeah, these tactics are being employed against you.
And so the Transdimensional Court has decided that it's our time to break up the conspiracy. What do we do when we go in for a conspiracy, a transdimensional conspiracy? You won't remember now.
We have to start at the bottom and we have to move our way up, right? You only get to the top of the conspiracy after you've worked the bottom because the bottom will give you all the information you need to get to the top, right?
Okay, fantastic. Fantastic. So without further ado, I want to set us a theme tonight just to burn some incense, if you will, just to hallow this place. What you're about to see are a few lines taken from Iamblicus.
Isn't it nice to see the poetry of the old institution? Yeah, it's nice to see that civilization. We have to remember that when we go on one of these missions that we're doing this in honor of that tradition.
Yes, you know, in order of that right. So we've, here we are. Here we are. Let's, give me a second.
Open up. This is the transdimensional authority. You do not have a right to remain silent. Everything that you say is being used against you in a transdimensional court of law.
You do not have the right to an attorney, nor will one be presented for you. Your words will be your judge.
I like that last part. It's not, you know, come on, that's the, that's what you need to go in with, right? That's what you need to enter.
Bring him in. Now, just to let you know, bad cop has been put on temporary duty for now. So we're going to go with this thing, full steam.
Bring him in. Bring him in. I want you to watch now. We don't even need to get into names. Names are not important. This individual is not important. His identity is not important.
What is important is for me to show you how to enforce that space where reality is everything. Yeah.
Now, I, we want the most precise science possible, and I don't want you fooled. I didn't want to say it. I didn't want to say it, but as we, as we are handed, as we are handed this process to enforce.
You know, as we find it's our duty as servants of the muse to keep those waters clean, I would be remiss in my duty if I didn't show you what is going on so that you can find someone that may sound like they're saying good things,
but they may end up taking you, which happens a lot. Academics are the worst at this. They can take you somewhere dark. You can end up somewhere dark.
And then next thing you know, there's going to be some sort of something dropped into a drink. You're going to be coming to with all sorts of memories that you're not even sure are reality.
Yeah, that's what can happen. I am trying to prevent you from falling into the hands of this type of tactician. This is called the Larry Nasser.
Yeah, the category of our warrant today is called Larry Nasser.
Yeah, yeah. One who can use deception. One who can use deception based on an appeal to authority.
Right, get that right. He was a do who is Nasser. Remember, we're bringing the past and the future into the present. Who is Nasser. He's that do doctor of osteopathy who who ended up raping generation of gymnast.
Yes. Yeah, his appeal to them was an appeal for salvation. His manipulations, things that you and I and they know were molestations. Right. His manipulations were going to give them don't worry.
I don't trust me. I'm, I'm the authority. Right. He's a do. I just want to say one thing. I got to sit in surgery in Guatemala, repairing the foot of a young girl that a do from America had come down to and almost killed.
So I was with a team of surgeons. I'm not a surgeon. I was carried supplies, did grant work. But I was with an orthopedic surgeon who rescued her who rescued her.
Yeah. So MD is to do as classics is to religious studies. Okay.
We're, if we're going to go in and serve this warrant, we have to know our stuff. We have to be well within the trans dimensional law. We have to know exactly what we're going in for what we're doing. This can't be sloppy.
So I'm going to give you my perspective today. And today we're just going to see, okay, what, you know, just because somebody tells you they're an authority. And they watch if they use we that made up we is supposed to be we scholars.
That's not you dummies. Because you are dumb, dumb.
That's why you can't get this stuff on your own. You have to come to me. When you come across that attitude. What do you know, you're not in the museum anymore. Right. You're, you're in an auction. Somebody is buying something.
Do you smell it? Everybody here smells it in the congregation. I know you do. Okay. All right. Get your uniforms on. We got to go in and meet the witness here. Let's question him. Let's start right now. We're going to suck his words right out of his mouth again, no matter who it is.
I want you to pay attention to technique. Go ahead.
This solution is known as theology and was developed most profoundly by the Syrian Platonic philosopher Yamblichus. In this episode, I want to explore the philosophy behind theology, why it developed in its lasting impact even today into Christian sacramentalism.
If you're interested in magic, hermetic philosophy, alchemy, Kabbalah, or the history of the occult, make sure to subscribe here to Esoterica and check out my other content on topics in esotericism included curated playlists.
Also, if you want to support this kind of work of making accessible scholarly and yet free content on topics in esotericism here on YouTube, I'd hope you consider taking a look at my Patreon, maybe a one time donation with PayPal.
You can use the super thanks option below the video. You can also just buy like a pretty boss black metal esoteric shirt over at our merch channel. So check that out as well.
Boss.
Boss.
Merch.
Is this the sacred knowledge? Is this what to the to the one that receives the esoteric? Is this what happens?
No, you cannot operate the mystery, my friends, and you know you can't. You cannot operate the mystery as a carnival show.
That's all you are.
If you are selling it, your free coverage of the material, right? If you are selling it, where are the plates?
Where's Paul's buttocks? Just a minute. I'll be right with you, mister. I just got something here. Who is this? It's Paul the apostle. Take off your pants, Paul. Take them off. No, I said take them off. All the way. All the way, Paul. All the way.
It's not Yamblichus. He persistently does that. Why would that be a big deal? Look, you're investigators, right? You're investigators. The fact that he's using that why tells you a lot. It tells you where he was educated.
It tells you continentally where he was educated. Yes, and if you know the classics, right? Here's the scale that we're working on tonight. One to ten. A ten is your classicist.
A one is not. And among classicists, you could rank them too. Some are good. Some are great. Some are like legends, right?
So, yeah, and they all have different arts, right? Some are good at this, some are good at that, right? It's fantastic, fantastic. But tonight we're going zero to ten. Let's get in. He's going to talk to you about theorgy and specifically Iamblichus, not Yamblichus.
He's got a Western tradition through the Latin. Isn't that interesting? I can already tell this person is full. I haven't watched hardly any of this person, but let me guess.
Kabbalah. Do you smell it? It's medieval influence. Movements that we're trying to say language is power. Therefore, our language is the language of God. Yeah.
We don't go to that medieval stream. Have you noticed that? We shoot for the original on the classical side of the cosmos, right? When I say cosmos, I don't mean it like universe, which you're going to see here in a second. You're going to see here in a second. Yeah.
Okay, okay. Let's get to it. Speak up, buddy. Tell me something. Give me your name, rank, and serial number. Go ahead.
In the overall Platonic process of Enosis, well, in a sense, that's part of a long tradition of Platonic intellectualizing and even, frankly, religious antinomism.
Okay, now we're done. We know where we are, right? I just realized I've been in this room before. I've been in this room before. Okay. Number one, just for the sake of, for the sake of, you know, method.
There's a French judge here. We can't, we've got to hit the landing, right? It's not antinomism. That's not a word. Antinomian can yield antinomianism. Why is it important to say that? Am I saying you're not this or that? No, no, no.
I'm saying as an investigator, look what that means. That'll tell you exactly where you are with this person education-wise and what they've been exposed to. Okay, that's number one.
Sloppy philology, right? Me and the guys and gals from classics. We're going to take a mark off as judges. Yeah, deal with it. Yeah. Otherwise, he's throwing Greek at you.
Okay, and that's how I know where we are. That's how I know where we are. And I have flashbacks all of a sudden. And I'm getting sweaty. You know why? Because I have to go to philosophy. Graduate course philosophy. Two professors, an Aristotelian and a Platonist.
Both of them, philosophy PhDs. Little bit of Greek. Just enough Greek admittedly to be able to work through Plato and to be able to work through Aristotle.
Okay. Two professors, one conference room, 20 philosophy PhD students, the various stages in their program, and one classicist. I was the token classicist. Why do you need a classicist? Do you know what these classes were for me?
I had the text of what they were reading, and I would sit there with the text and they would talk across for 52 minutes.
And then ask me a question. Hey, what does it say in the Greek? And I would tell them, and they would say, oh, and then back to another 52 minutes of continuous word salad.
And the whole time, I couldn't help but think. Plato was getting somewhat shorted. Yeah. Ideas. Ideas are not for the museum. I don't want your ideas, and you don't want mine, or I'd be passing around a plate, and I'd be telling you to put money in it.
I don't want your ideas. You don't want mine. They all suck anyway. Right? What do we deal with? We deal with the evidence. Right? Can I get an amen? We deal with the evidence.
Okay. Play them. Give them some more. Speak up, please. Let's hear. Remember technique. We're looking for technique. Go ahead.
Honestly, it is not surprising to me in the least that the Platonists were hounded as something akin to ancient heretics by the conservative Hellenian establishment.
I mean, Plato was ultimately a cosmic monotheist who held that mathematical principles were ontologically primary. Ditto, Aristotle held that a fundamentally unified, unmoved mover composed of pure mental activity was the source of all causation in the cosmos.
But Tarnus and Porphyry, more or less, they carried that tradition straightforward, paying some lip service to the traditional cult, but ultimately arguing that only an intellectual, an inward intellectual turn could ultimately prove redemptive.
Wait, wait, wait. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That was rude of me. I just kind of drifted off there into my own world.
Just a couple of comments. Number one, redemptive note doesn't fit the context. Number two, right? Listen to the words that are being used, right? The conservative Hellenic establishment.
What are you smoking? Yeah. What are you smoking? You're sure that they had problems with the conservative? Okay. I thought I was confused. I thought this was, um, I thought this was something about the day Mysteries.
I thought we were going in that direction, right? I don't care about what you think, right? Neither does anybody else. We do not care about your ideas, but if it makes you feel better, ours either.
Yeah. Why don't you pull out some texts and let's look at some texts instead of what you're doing because you're taking me back to philosophy grad school. And I know there is an edification for you people.
I know. I know philosophy. Doctors of philosophy. If you're one of them, I get it. I get it. It's like a communal cognitive coitus foundation. You just check in and slide your card and you get complete coital satisfaction in a room full of people.
I get that. I understand your drug. Hey, we're here with the languages, though, and we're just interested in what is being said, right? So can we get to that? Go ahead, Chewie. Maybe this will get through to him. Go ahead.
And when porphyry attacked the extraordinarily ancient cult of the Egyptians, even by Greek standards, extraordinarily ancient, Yamblichus just seemed to have had enough of it. His counteroffensive against his own teacher and really the hitherto history of Platonic religious antinomianism was his reply to a porphyry in a text that we now know as the day Mysteries.
That's the Latin title given by Ficino in the Renaissance when he translated it. Now, I'm not even going to try to attempt a summary of the day Mysteries in this episode. It's honestly an extraordinarily complex text, which is just full of philosophical insider baseball.
It assumes a sophisticated understanding of philosophy up to that point, the inner workings of debates within Platonic philosophy, specifically the religious and ritual landscape of the time and the particular elements of porphyry's mostly lost criticism of Egyptian rituals.
So, you know, that I usually recommend people just, you know, dive into primary texts, whatever possible, but I gotta be frank with you, this one is gonna, you're gonna need swimming lessons before you dive into this.
Okay, this date is not going well. Yeah, I'm, I'm thinking, I know I want to pull out a bad cop, but okay, what was the advice?
Kids, when you get any advice to not do something, I want you to know that you should immediately run and do that. This is a satanic principle.
Okay. Why? Okay, is it just me? Tell me, should we try to pay attention to this? Tell me guys, do you feel stupid? Because he just said that you are too stupid to figure out how to read this text.
You are too stupid. And since he's throwing Greek around, surely, surely he must be a classical philologist. No, he's not. He's a religious studies guy. Yeah, yeah, and right away, you know, okay, okay, I know, I know, you know, a high percentage, a high percentage of these guys that end up in academia.
These guys that end up in the trials, right? You know, it's part of a team, your honor, we're just part of a team, right? These are the tactics that are reaching out and grabbing.
You don't even realize it. This is mental. You need to be able to see the invisible thing that's going on. The watchers call him fingers. I think that's a little bit inappropriate. Yeah, hit it, Chewie.
Yamblichus, his concept of theology. Thus, Yamblichus maintains three distinct registers, philosophy, which is logical and discursive, theology, God talk, which is discursive, but whose origins are actually super logical, and theology, which is neither bound by logic nor expressive discursively at all.
The day mysterious captures this distinction really well, he argues philosophically in the text, he discusses theology systematically, but it has its origins in the non discursive experience of religious revelations of various kinds of experiences such as rituals, sacrifice, divination, the epiphanies or the appearances by supernatural beings.
And yes, while it's now in vogue, for whatever reason, to argue that the idea of the supernatural has its origins in Abrahamic religious conceptions or early modern Christian conceptions of a natural and a supernatural world.
This concept really originates in Yamblichus, for whom the gods, daimons, heroes, etc, literally exist, hoop or foosies. That's the word he uses. They're above nature.
So, ontologically, just above this physical cosmos, and thus their appearance as an epiphany is just literally supernatural in character, literally, hoop or foosies.
Hooper foosies.
Okay, now, just as a technician, as an artist, who does this, that phrase is not a word, it's a prepositional phrase. It's two words. Number one.
Number two, it means on behalf of, because foosies is a goddess.
And by the way, Hooper doesn't take it nominative. Any of my beginning Greek students would know that.
Yeah. So, what can we tell about this authority? He's about to say, we, first of all, you're too stupid to understand what the source is saying. That's a big mistake, number one.
Go right to the sources. As soon as somebody points out, you're too stupid for this, the way you should react is thank you for pointing out what I really should dive into.
Thanks. They told me, the drugs are not there. They're not using the drugs. Why would they do such a thing?
What did I know? Run right there. Right there in that pool. And you find it. You find it.
Gorgeous, yes. So, he's Greek. Where do I give him on a Greek? As a full-fledged PhD in classics.
Yeah. I would put him as a non-classicist, probably a philosophy or religious studies.
And I would say, despite the fact that his Greek is terrible, his ancient Greek is terrible, despite that, despite the fact that he uses it like a philosopher.
Philosophers, PhDs, are like people. Imagine giving a lightsaber to somebody who, you know, might use it to, I don't know, turn the oven on, you know.
They might try to fix part of their house with it, right? You don't give that samurai sword to a child, right?
And that's what philosophy and religious history scholars are like. I'm sorry, but it is.
We read texts all day, right? It's just the way it is. You can't get by that. That's our strength.
All right, so his, he's not even on a scale. So, so far, you know, he's like two or three max, right?
And all the people we talk about, I'll give ratings, so you know. I have to, I have to give you my just input.
Hit us again. We've got a couple more of these. Hit us again.
Not only does this ego-driven, selfish endeavor further enmesh their souls in their bodies, but it also attracts malevolent beings,
which seek to further manipulate those sorcerers and goes, often dooming them.
The sorcerers and goes, really? You know, it's the same thing, right? You know, it's the same thing.
No, he doesn't. He's throwing at you a Greek word because he's trying to capture the authority.
And you'll say, yes, yes, give me the procedure that will take me to the esoteric divine.
Give it to me is what you're saying, right? When he's got you at that point, when he has the authority, remember?
Right? The priests have authority. You're not supposed to object. Doesn't matter, right?
When parts start burning, and you know that this is not a place that you should be.
It's the authority of the priest or the gymnastics coach.
You know, the national gymnastics coach. It's their authority that keeps you servile, keeps you within that service.
Yeah, right? That's why he threw a go-ace at you, because you don't know.
I know 99% of you don't do any Greek. I know you don't.
I could have just said something that means clownfish, right? You wouldn't know. It's a game, right?
Go look at the merch. Go look at the merch. Soon as somebody mentions merch, right? You know, you know, you're right there.
So see, this is, you know, this warrant is a public service for her. We do this for her. Okay, give us another one.
This way, Yamblichus and Augustine are actually surprisingly on the same page, even for kind of similar reasons.
These are quasi-theorurgical acts not done for the greatest good.
Yeah, what was that? You had a theory about so-and-so and so-and-so being like, yeah, blah, blah, blah.
And this will put you under the ground, because you have yet to hear a single primary source.
Bam! And that's how we get them with the warrant, right?
Every time we go in to one of these warrants, no, there is a primary source right here.
This target is primary, and I am going in. If somebody comes around, they're talking this way, and that way, and Plato, and Aristotle, and this.
And we're like, wait, wait, wait. I thought, isn't this, are we supposed to hear Yamblichus?
He said, why don't you let him speak? Why don't you let him speak? I'll tell you why he doesn't let him speak.
I'll tell you why, because we're going to get into the apartment.
And when we get inside that apartment to serve this warrant, this transdimensional warrant, right, he's going to have somebody there with him.
They say, what? It's an academic thing, right? It's an academic thing.
Look for the one that's with him when he gets arrested. Are we talking about Jesus? Yes.
Yeah, we are. Love it.
Yes, again, with Mr. Esoteric.
Again, these are accounts of devotion, not showing off to your homies that you can summon a water daimon.
Don't show off your theological powers, because you will lose them, and other daimons will kill you.
Yeah, okay. I think that was, it was kind of funny, like, huh, I guess.
That's irrelevant. This guy can, whoever he is, whoever we're watching, can be funny or not. That's irrelevant.
Good for somebody to try to introduce a little joking. You know what I mean? That's nice. Kind of like it.
I don't know if I'm with his sense of humor or not. Shout out, by the way, to the comedian who's using the material.
He's using this material for comedy. That's got to be the most difficult gig on the planet. Nice job. Nice job.
So, the very last thing he said, not the daimon. Do you know what a daimon is?
He'll give you some definition. Something Ficino came up with after translating one of the classical authors that ended up being some kind of school movement.
Yeah, you guys know how it works. We all end up in the gymnasium. Right.
But that word that he used, he tried to make a plural. The daimons. You just made it. Tucho. This is a violation, linguistic violation.
This is, this will get you five to seven in a linguistic penitentiary.
What are you going to do by marrying a Greek word to an English, to an English S? What is that doing for you?
Everybody knows that's not, everybody in classics knows, right? That's not. So again, what does it tell you? It tells you that he's not good with the sword.
He is swinging a samurai sword and somebody is going to get hurt, right? One of his audience members is going to get a psyche shaving of the psychic lobes, right?
I know he's just a kid. He can't swing it very hard, right? But that thing cuts. That's a sword he's cutting with.
Yeah, so you may get hurt. All I'm saying is, when we're on the playground, everybody needs to work together to keep an eye out for this type of activity.
This is stranger danger. Stranger danger, right? What is the offense? What is the real charge?
The charge is a type A felony. Yeah, it's a type A transdimensional felony.
Violation of the sacred and honorable space of the muse. This is a violation of the muse. Yeah, it is. It's 63 counts of violations of the muse.
What greater teacher would you want than somebody who was that pure cosmic storyteller whose words, when she sings them, make creation?
Yeah, you want that source, and that source is real. That source is not sloppy, right? She gets the crown. The crown is for her achievement, her adité, right?
That's good Dorian value, her adité, that's her achievement. That crown is not crown of England, just a marker for potency.
No, that crown is the performance, the winning performance, right? That is coming from the sources that this individual whose name doesn't matter and whose I wish the best with his career.
This gentleman is measuring up to a non-trust worthy source of information. Yeah, yeah. Why?
Okay, this is my field. I am telling you guys from 30 years experience in several universities, lots of papers, right? And a book, and a book that was several books, but a book that went to a level of, you know, where the London Times was saying, this is the last wild frontier of classics, right?
This kind of research is the last wild frontier of classics. We need to hold this ground, and we're not going to hold this ground as sacred if we're listening to word salads of people that are not properly trained.
Yeah, we don't need ideas. Just so you can see the invisible side, and I'm going to play the video one more time. Just so you can see the invisible side of all of this, you got to ask yourself, what does the direction take you to?
Where do you end up? Where do you end up? If your teacher does not have good technique, you'll never surpass them, which is what every good teacher wants. They want to send that student up on their shoulders up to that next level, right?
So, yeah. So, that's all. That's all. We've served. This type of approach has been served. For our benefit, let us stay with those who maintain principles of reason, and science, and a dedication to the gods, so that we know.
We will always fall on the side of justice. Always. Let's watch that video one more time, Chewie. This is actual. This is actual for tonight. This is the one bit of iamblicus that you're actually going to get.
These are his.
Yeah.
Chewie has something. That was that was my translation, and that was actual. That was actual iamblicus, and I recommend to every one of you.
As a matter of fact, now I will take it personally if you don't. I would appreciate it if you could find a good copy of iamblicus and take a look at it on the mysteries, right?
And take a look at it and let me know what you think. Fantastic. Fantastic depth in the work, and you will love to go there. You will love to go there.
Chewie wanted me to. Did you want me to play in the cup here? Throw another one up there. Let's see what happens here. Go ahead.
Okay. If if you guys don't feel it.
Okay. If if you guys don't feel it. Yeah, I feel distinctly. Where's the doll? Can anybody give me the doll? I want to show Chewie where I feel like I've been touched. Yeah, hit another one.
Chewie, come on.
In that way, this is an extraordinary text from a religious studies point of view as well. He inhabits three different identities at some level as he's working through this text.
So how does one know when one's theology is effective? Well, primarily by supernatural manifestations, especially mantic or prophetic knowledge of the future.
He didn't say the we yet, but he's about to the fact that we can get it and you don't. Right. I can't. I can't. That's enough. Right. He said enough. It's all it's all perfectly, you know, we're going to send in the cleaning crew.
You know what I mean? This is this is the way it is.
People, let us all stay protected within that capacity for reason. Let's be technicians who are experts. Let's be the samurai who know how to use those swords.
Right. Let's not stumble all over the place and hurt ourselves and other people with that was brain cutting with brain cutting instruments. Yeah.
Next time we have an indictment, I may not be able to give you as much as much notice, but I'll let you know we're working up.
Keep that in mind. We're working up the organization to the top. We're going right to the top.
So everybody's pleased. They're waiting. They've been asking me when are we going to start bringing people in? We started.
Thank you very much for maintaining your professional demeanor. Chewy, did you want to slap up there any comments that anybody said that for somebody who asked about my name?
My name is Amun, right? It's my middle name. David Charles Amun Hillman. That's my full name. I don't mind giving you my full name. It's out there in print anyway.
But they're asking about the David. I don't use David because David was a murderer. Right. And there's something about murderers that you can't bear the name.
The name is everything within the magic, right? And if you bear the name of a murderer, you bear that blood. So, you know, I didn't want to name my kids Adolf for a reason, right?
Because they're ghosts associated. It's corruption. So that's why I use my middle name Amun. I like it. I like it. Fantastic. Fantastic.
Were there any other comments? Yes. It's just a video where he's saying, okay, give us a couple. Throw a couple up there. Anything that was really...
I wanted people to have a... I just want to see what people are having concerns about. You know what I mean?
Yeah, okay. Anyway, we'll sort this out. I don't want to waste your time. Thank you very much. And I want to give a shout out to Chewie, who's doing fantastic video work and keeping production going.
So, thank you for coming to the Cosmic Court. You see how we need to be professional and not approach this as a personal problem. This is not... We're not here as psychologists, right?
We're here enforcing the dictates of the transdimensional court, right? We are the museum. We are defenders. The last line of keeping that connection open. Hail Satan.
Save your breath. Don't bother talking. Or tell me something I don't know. And listen...
