Liberty is Bucket.
From intoxication, purple cushion the air, heroin painkiller, take it to the river, bring the thriller,
Goldworn dildos moilla, Medea the mother of invention, creator of the processed flowers, Athena sings her songs,
Fuck death of a bomb, high purple strong, go long.
Poisonous arrows, the poor rough, royal purple makes a noble shroud, a motley cruma dia venus,
All my love for you, all my love led Zeppelin, stay where the heaven, paradise is close,
Doing it right, Superman, Flynn, Crystal Castle, Hollywood Ghost, shimmy by the treeline,
You didn't have to love me like you did, but you did, and I thank you.
Welcome back to the Lady Babylon. This is Initiating Apocalypse again, and it's nice to have you.
Let me tell you what we've got tonight. Let me tell you what we've got.
We have me, I'll be standing here, bringing you something that's gorgeous.
I know we've been in the sewage. We're walking in the sewage. Last time we were together, Jesus Christ was self-pleasuring himself.
Oh my God, and eating it, that we had the text for that. Oh God, what is it?
Okay, this time we're going to step into the waters and bathe off those images.
Oh, I don't know about you, but that stuff sat on me like a funk. Praise Jesus, sat on me like a funk.
I wanted to take a shower after the last one. I don't know why, just felt like it. It would be appropriate that I did.
Oh God, so here we're going. We're going to have to take a trip.
Tonight's trip through Amun is the place that we go to purge, to clean up. It's nice.
I'm going to take you to a nice little, it's not a vacation, it's a field trip. Consider it a field trip.
And after 20, 25 minutes, we're going to have Gnostic Informant come on.
And Gnostic will tie together everything by bringing you what is America.
And I want to start tonight with just one comment.
Let it be known that we are at the place in the States where we have anointed a king.
We have a king again. And how do you get kings?
When you excuse Lady Justice, what you didn't realize is that when you excuse Lady Justice and you make immortal higher than the gods,
you bring yourself the loss of liberty. Tonight we're going to look at it.
We're going to look at it. That Bible belongs to us people. Get used to it. You're going to learn it.
You're going to learn it in the schools. Let's start out. Gnostic will be in the back wings.
He's waiting. I made sure he was awake this time. Definitely, definitely.
Go ahead and hit me. Hit me with the first passage.
And I'm going to stand here and I'm going to tell you what kind of purification do we need?
We've had a lot of stuff. You've had a lot of just really heavy, heavy material.
It has to do with a lot of sexual things that Jesus Christ and Mary Magdalene,
that the young apostles were all involved in.
We've been to these places. It's dark. We can all take off our radiation suits tonight
and we can bathe in some good, good classical purity.
I'm going to bring you tonight, Lady Liberty.
I'm going to bring you her. I'm going to show you who she is
that was the origin of these United States.
Yeah. Who is this that we've got here? Who's hanging out? Who's hanging out?
This is Chalemicus. We're also going to tie this in exactly to the Septuagint.
This is Chalemicus who is writing at the same time that the thing that we all thought was the Bible
was being written. It's being written in the third when Chalemicus is really forging ahead as a librarian.
Do you know how many copies this nerd was in charge of?
This nerd was in charge of 500,000 of these things. He was categorizing according to genre and stuff like that.
Oh my God, 500,000. How many of those? How many of those Hebrew works do we have in the back room, Bill?
None, boss. Oh my God. You mean once again it's Greek with all of this material.
In Hebrew there is none. People, the reality that I want you to really understand is what you have thought was the Bible was an invention.
The Bible is a Greek work that was later, 200 years after it was written, started to be translated into Hebrew,
an already dead language that nobody was speaking. Listen to me very carefully.
Oh my God, Jehovah, you will find him not through the Hebrew. You'll find him in the Greek.
Right? He's all over the place, dude. He's the one we go to in order to have gay love affairs.
Right? Right? If you want. Right? It's the way you do it. Come on, man. Don't get all upset.
It's the real Jehovah we're talking about. Okay. Are you ready? Here is the text we're dealing with.
Perjus, Perjus Calimicus. This is one of Calimicus's hymns and it's the hymn to Artemis.
It's the hymn to Artemis. And what does your name mean?
You know, I'm very rarely in agreement with Plato, but in this case I'm going to be.
And Plato says it's, you know, it's from the root that is, uh, means safety and salvation.
Right? If you, Artemis, what do you do? You enter yourself into a place of safety.
You bring salvation. Who is it? Eons before the Moses is ever a figment of the third century's imagination
or Jesus Christ is ever born. Long time before that, the savior is Lady Liberty.
The rights that you enjoy. R-I-T-E-S. The rights that you boast. R-I-G-H-D-S.
Do you know where they come from? It's Bacchic.
It's been encoded in the literature of antiquity and the people who made this country.
All you, all you Freemasons, tonight you need to shut up and sit down because you are not doing your jobs.
Listen, and a couple of these people, Satanic congregation, a couple of these big wigs, you know,
have gotten in touch with me and want to hoo-ha. You know what you idiots need? You drop the ball.
Count them. Count them. That's your pentagonal prison. You morons. Get your...
I'm sorry. I shouldn't let that out.
Hmm. Who is Lady Liberty?
Well, we had the hats.
Oh my God. Makes you so frustrated.
Okay. Satanic congregation. That's why the congregation has to be Satanic.
Get the job done.
Bring up that, bring up that him one more time. There's a few things.
Now, it's lengthy here and there's a whole bunch of beauty that I'm going to bring out,
I want to highlight a couple of points. This is all about Artemis when she was a little girl
and she crawled up onto her daddy's knee and she said,
Daddy, promise me this. She wants some things. Who is this baby girl?
Who is she? Who is she? You mean the savior was a she before it was ever a dude or the son of a dude?
That's right. Give it to me. What does she want?
Next one. Give it to me. What does she want?
Oh God, give to me an Ionic virginity.
Oh, apa.
What does she want? She wants to guard it.
She wants to be the guardian, it says.
She wants to be the guardian of Ionic virginity.
Do you know what that is now? You'll sit there and you'll be like, huh?
What? It's not what you think.
It's not what you think. Give me the next one.
There's something that we need to, we need to tamp down people.
Who is the father that she's talking to at Zeus? Right?
But here's the problem. This word, apas, this is, what?
This is not just daddy, oh, look at it.
It's the apas, the one who serves Dionysus.
The trophheus. The trophheus is the nurturer.
That is the servant of God. Do you understand?
Wow. It, he, who is this dude? Who is God?
God, listen to this. This is what Mother Great is telling you.
God is the nourisher of his daughter.
God is the nourisher of his daughter. If you know God out there anywhere
and that God is not the nourisher of his daughter,
you have picked up some modest virus.
You must be treated immediately. Please.
The Ludovico Clinic is ready. Here we go. Here we go.
Why is it so many? It's Tony. Just look up Tony Burgess, by the way.
While we're going, Joey hit him with a couple of brain, brain blasters.
While we're going on this trek, I have, I have something that I need to ask you,
Satanic congregation, to do. I need you to do something for me.
I need you all to pick up internet copy for free
of Lord Byron's cane of mystery. And I want you to read it
because I want you to get taken off this marble by the devil.
I want you to talk to that devil directly. And I want you to do so
as servants of Liberta's servants of Liberty.
Are we or are we not keepers of Liberty? I don't know about you.
I don't have a party. I never was interested in the whole party thing.
I don't know. I don't know. The official groups and the churches and the.
No, what I am is someone who loves that Liberty that we were so gifted with
in this place. Yeah, I'm talking to the folks of America.
I know you brits on the other side. Just wait. We got to have our independence.
Let's do this. Give me the next one. What else is under?
What else does she want? What else is she asking for?
She's asking to be polo ono me, right? What is the, what is this?
It's just the mini-named, right? Well, that's not, it's not just the just.
That's a big one because we all know that she of the mini-names is the ultimate enemy of the monists.
And what else? Remember what treats? Remember what the psychologist, the union, told me?
Trace is John Price is John Price. Remember what treats Nazis?
It's that whole mothering thing. It's that whole mothering thing.
She's that one mother that has all of those names.
That's what Artemis wants when she climbs on her daddy's knee.
Love it. Give me the next one. Give me the next one.
What else? Give to me the use.
Give me the bows and arrows with their poisons.
Give me the bows and arrows with their poisons. What is one of the name?
Now, she asked to be called mini-name.
And I will tell you, you can look up, I don't know what has it, Wikipedia or something.
Maybe it's Theoi. Look it up at all of the names of Artemis.
And you're going to find mini-names. It doesn't stop. The list is huge.
What is the one? This is a silent and a secret one.
She who pours the poison. She who pours the Eos.
We are square in Bronze Age.
Some of the material that we're talking about tonight is early Bronze Age.
This is stuff that there is no monism. It doesn't exist yet.
There is no Jehovah. There is no Jesus Christ. We haven't gotten that far forward.
What do we have? This is that time anthropologically when the sons of God were like,
and next thing you know, they're teaching drugs.
Yeah, it's gorgeous, man. It's gorgeous. You're going to see the science of it.
Give me the next one. What else does she want?
She wants to be able to do as well as Phoebus.
She tells Daddy, make me to do as well as Phoebus.
What is Phoebus? Who is Phoebus? Phoebus is that one who shines.
Are you getting ready for the dawn? Who are we looking for with coming of the dawn?
Who are we looking for? We're looking for that one that is radiant.
That one that is shining. He's talking about Lucifer.
I am. But before Lucifer was Lucifer, she was Lucifera.
That is Artemis. What does she ask Daddy for? Give me the next one.
She asked Daddy to be called the dawn bringer.
What do we have here? She says, look, Daddy, you don't have to get me the bow, right?
Because you know who's going to make my junk? It's the cyclopes.
They're going to make my junk.
And for those of you who don't understand what giants are, it's because you skip that generation.
Those giant people said, nephilim, nephilim.
Perpetuate your insanity. All that you want.
Those of us who want science, those of us who make love to lady science and reason.
You look silly. You look silly. You look Dan silly.
Did he say dam in? No. He said, what was the duck tails?
I suddenly feel like watching duck tails. I'm sorry. Hey, give me some room, people.
Give me some room to be silly. Give me the next one. Go ahead.
What was the last one that we had? I had to fully translate that. Boom.
The cyclopes are going to give me, says Artemis.
They're going to give me my equipment, like my arrows. Give me the next one.
And you're going to call me Feisforien.
Feisforien. Who is that? That is the exact translation.
Root of Lucifer. Because Lucifer is later, right?
And you say Lucifer and you were referring to the morning star.
Do you know who that is? That is originally Artemis.
There is a lot that you're going to find in the worship of Artemis,
that Jesus, when he was Christing himself, stuff that he was on to.
Yeah. Yeah. You're going to be surprised. I'm telling you.
Bacchic religion is liberty. Give me the next one up.
And you know, he's working with slaves, right? They're all kiddie slaves.
You'll be free someday. Come here and let me Christ you.
Right down your throat. Here we go. Are you ready?
What else does she want? Now, remember, this is the goddess.
This is where you're getting freedom. Are you ready? What does she want?
She says, give to me 60 young chorus singers and make them all nine years old.
Make them Amitrus children. Make them unmitred children.
Make them ungirdled children. What is 60? Wait a minute.
This is Artemis, right? People, I want you to take a step back for a minute.
What is Artemis asking for? 69 year old girls.
What for a hunting cult? You know what these girls do?
They use their poisons to hunt. And do you know who's better than them?
No one. When the king, when the king, what's his name and what's wherever,
wherever the hell it was says, oh my God, this lion is killing everybody.
So the person who can kill this lion, I'll give my kingdom.
Do you know who walks out? One of these girls.
One of these girls, you mean I can put my daughter, I can sacrifice my daughter to Artemis.
And she will, at nine years old, turn her into a hunter of lions.
Okay. Okay.
I'm beginning to see, isn't that fresh? Do you know where Liberty comes from?
It comes from a nine year old lion killer.
Whose name means salvation. Yeah.
We're doomed. We are absolutely doomed.
This avenue is blocked. You have anointed yourself a king.
Where is he? Bring up his awful picture. You have anointed yourself a king.
And for those of you who don't like me using this, yes, boom.
For those of you don't like me referring to anything that has to do with the governance of the United States.
I say, behold, the man that you gave power over justice.
Behold your tyrant. Shame on you for more than 200 years.
This country has not once put a human being in the position of a king.
And now you have because you love him so much.
And the price was justice. Unfortunately, with justice goes Liberty.
Justice Thomas Jefferson said what happened.
I don't see his blood. I don't see his blood enriching the tree of Liberty.
I don't see it. What has to happen? What has to happen?
Goodbye. Goodbye, Lady Liberty. Goodbye. Everybody grab your Bibles.
I'm ready. I'm ready. We're going into the schools now.
We're going to teach them everywhere. I'm a volunteer.
Let me teach you about Jesus Christ. Let me teach you about a naked boy that he was with when he was arrested in Mark 1451 and 52.
Let me tell you, okay, give me the next one.
Just bring up the evidence.
What you look for as she wants all of this chorus, right?
Now watch out. You may look down on this chorus, but you better not look down for long because they will kill you.
In antiquity, they will kill you.
And what else does she want? Give me the next one.
She wants others, but she wants the people that are Amitros.
And what does that mean? It literally means un-girdled.
Now you might think, well, that means the opposite, right? It's like a chastity belt or something.
No, no, that is Christian dark age and stupidity.
Are you ready? What is this? It's a headband and or a girdle.
Yeah, girls who have not yet put on the woman's girdle.
You don't put on the woman's girdle until your time has come.
So who protects those who don't have the woman's girdle?
Artemis. That's what she asked from daddy.
She wanted him to give her. She wanted that priest to give her the protection.
I'm the guardian of Ionic virginity.
Do you know what that word virginity means? It means a song.
Yeah, Parthenia. They're songs that they sing.
Do you know what she's doing? She's training nine year old girls to hunt lions and sing songs.
Okay. Okay. This is the origin of salvation.
This is the liberty that we need. Give it to me on the next one. Give it to me.
What is this? I want to live on the mountains. We're going to do these quickly.
I want to live on the mountains. Are those mountains?
Are they connected with majesty and the color purple?
Let's find out tonight when Neil comes in, right?
I want to live on the mountains. And what do I want to do?
I'm going to be a goddess who rules the cities, but I'm going to do it from the mountains.
And the only time I go into the mountains is when the women are in the pains of childbirth.
Do you know why? This same protector of the kids is the one who brings painless delivery.
Think about that for a minute. Painless delivery.
Her poison is the poison they use to get women to give birth.
It's a pain reducer and inducer of birth.
Don't lose sight of lady liberty. Give me the next one.
She wants to live. Let's keep going.
Here's the song by Maidens.
To the what kind of flute? To the aulos, right?
The parthenic aulos. Isn't that nice?
The parthenic aulos, which the professor in Oxford has managed to reconstruct.
It's playing the thing. Love it. That's what we use as our instrument.
Isn't that gorgeous? What is the next one?
So where is this Artemis born?
She's born on an island called Delos. Do we have any pictures of Delos?
Born with her twin brother on Delos. Don't lose sight of who the Lightbringers are.
Born on this gorgeous, gorgeous paradise. Look seriously, people.
Seriously, look at what the, if you don't think climate has some effect on the development of the species, you're moron.
Look at the beauty of this place.
Look, who would not want to live in this place and use a language that allowed you to pull down the stars?
Oh God, what happened? Where are we?
I want to go back. Give me the next one. Give me the next one.
We're going to have a hymn to Delos here.
Calimacus says, Hey, I want to point out a couple of things to you that Delos, she is.
Who is she? She's that Holy Curotrophon of Apollo.
She's the one who nourished Apollo. Are you beginning to see some themes?
Are you beginning to see some themes?
This religion that is pre-Christian, pre-Jewish, this pre-monist, pre-Ocnot and BS, right?
This is third millennium.
This religion is based on a child nourisher, on a witch who can raise up a child, who can open a child's eyes.
You can take her from your side and you will be invincible.
The child nourisher. Very important. You mean the first sauter, the first savior is a child nourisher? Yes.
And guess what? They called Medea this goddess. They just said that that's who she was.
Imagine being called that during your lifetime.
Oh God, what an honor. Go to. Brilliant.
Give me the next one. Give me the next one. We're going to bring in the Liberty.
Okay, what else? Look, obviously this nurse of Apollo.
She's number one, man, from the Muses. She's got all the cred from the Muses.
Right? Why? Look at the second line, the last word.
You realize that's the word for Medusa. It's the same word that produces Medusa, right?
She is the Medusa to Phoebus, the one who is that master of songs.
She is the one. Remember Artemis said, I want to be equal to Phoebus.
I want to be the light bringer because the light bringer is that Phoebus.
And what does she do? She bathes Phoebus. She bathes him? Yeah, she does.
She swaddles him and she's the first to establish him.
As God. As God. Do you see what happened?
The child nourishing mother is the one who brings in God.
Who's Jehovah's mommy? Have you ever thought about that? Who's Jehovah's mommy?
And you'll laugh and you'll say, Jehovah doesn't have a mommy.
And if you did, the grace would look at you and say, are you some stupid barbarian?
Are you some stupid barbarian?
Don't you know everybody's got a mommy? Who do you beat?
You beat monists and you beat Nazis when you bring psychologically the mother.
And you force them to look into the mirror with the mother.
Monists always die from the mother.
Why is that?
If you don't make room for it, you got nothing to do with the mystery, baby.
Nothing to do. And remember, these are all mysteries.
We could look into the name, one of the terms that we had up in the beginning that had prophet.
Why? Okay, give it to me.
Next one. We're almost in, we're almost to Gnostic.
We're gonna bring him in.
Right. Here is that. I just blew it up.
So I wanted you to see it.
She is that one who is the guardian, right?
She's guarding that she's doing the Medusa thing with the songs.
Good. And what do they call her originally?
Who is the Stelos? Who do they call her originally?
They called her Asteria.
They call her Asteria? Yes.
In ancient times, he says, in their ancient times, they called her Asteria.
Why? Why? Because she plunges into the depths.
She plunges into the depths.
She is the one who enters beyond the void.
She's the one who crosses over and enters into the water of this being.
Again, I don't know what the, what the physics are of that.
This is her. Okay.
Have you got the picture of who this is in your head?
She is Issei Asteri.
She is equal to a star.
So when you are in the mystery and you are drawing down the star,
you are under the power of Asteria.
You're under the power of Asteria.
Okay. Those of you with ears to hear, here, please listen to the ways of the Scythians.
All right. First, you've got the Scythian way speaking in a minute when Neil comes on.
You're going to have the wizardry side speaking.
Give it to me the next one.
Oh, this is just changing her name again.
Boom. Okay. And listen to me.
I've got one last little, this is what he says.
He's saying, listen to me, those of you who attend the bath.
Do you attend the bath of the Virgin?
Right. If I say that to you now, you have no idea it sounds like it's awful.
Right. I don't know. Is that what they did on Epstein's Island or something?
Right. It sounds terrible.
But when they're talking about the bath of the Virgin in antiquity,
they're talking about a process where one goes from darkness to light only through becoming blind.
Can you see? This is the bath.
Do you know what we do with Medea's Bathwater?
We use it as a medicine.
Yeah. Fantastic.
Those of you who are seeing the bath, this is the bath of the Virgin.
This is the palace. And what happens?
The palace got no mommy.
The palace got no mommy. She came and says, right out.
Right out of the head of Zeus, right out of the head of God.
And you know what happens when you've got this?
Now, those of you who are thinking about liberty in America, think about this.
That goddess, the liberty bringing spear shaking goddess.
She comes to us only through this bath.
And in the bath, we are cleansed and our vision, our vision is made dark so that we may see the light.
If your eyes are full of light, everything is good.
What kind of what kind of what happens to you when you're a Zeus and you bring forth from from up here when you bring forth this girl?
What happens? What happens?
You stop telling lies.
Isn't that weird? Zeus cannot lie.
Zeus, who is the father of the girl who springs from his mind.
He cannot lie. Do you get it?
It's the cure. It's the cure for the Nazis. It's the cure for the monist.
It's the cure for anybody who wants to bomb hospitals, wants to burn books and wants to wants to force you to either be ex or be dead.
Okay. Yeah, it's a meat grinder.
Right. Welcome. This is the Neo Dark Ages.
I've got one or two more and then we're going to we're going to end up.
Look, what can I promise you people that Kolemikus talks about?
This is the transformation. You and I were sitting watching the bath. We're being cleansed.
We're losing our vision. What do we what comes to us when we go blind?
The Virgin says this one person this one person when they enter death.
Yeah, they will live among the dead knowing they will live among the dead having all of their mind intact.
All of their memory. All of the reality intact.
They're the only one that will. They're the only one that will.
And they will foitase. Wait, what foitase? What's that mean?
Give me the next one. I can't wait. What am I going to do if I see the bath?
I'm going to end up what I'm look. I'm going to end up foitase in honor of great king of hell.
Is that Hades? Yes, it is. I guess see like I guess see like.
I guess see like megaloy.
The great. What am I going to do? I'm going to foitase so in front of him.
Oh, God, in his honor. What does it mean? I can't wait. Tell me what it means.
What am I going to be doing? Satanic congregation. Get excited because this is what we're going to be doing in hell.
We're going to be roaming wildly about what that could be fun.
We're going to be in a frenzy. I knew it.
We're ecstasy.
An ecstasy.
An ecstasy into Dionysus. Isn't that great?
Isn't that great? But look at number three.
Oh, it's also used a sexual intercourse to go into a man or woman.
And then it gives a whole. You can go into a woman. You can go into one another.
It says you can go into a woman. Next slide. You go into a man.
Next slide. You can go into a slave.
Next slide. You can. Oh, look at the bottom one. That's dirty.
That's dirty. All that going into people.
And this last line serves it up.
What does that last line say? You Persian men.
You Persian men. You know those Greek women.
You know those Greek women.
It's a lot of going into.
You mean this is what it's going to end up happening?
You thought I thought sex was bad. I thought sex was a bad thing.
Yes, you did. Because you are a victim of the dark ages.
I don't care if you don't believe in Jesus Christ.
I don't care if you don't go to synagogue.
I don't care if you think the religions are stupid.
Like a lot of Israelis do. As a matter of fact, the majority.
At least when I was there, I don't know what it is now.
What happens, people, that monism takes you over
and it reprograms you so that you cannot honor the mother?
That's the way it is. Viral. Give me the next one.
Give me the next one and I couldn't leave you
without letting you know that this island of Delos
where the worship of Apollo is prominent.
It was founded, yes. Look at the first line.
It was founded by Leistai.
Leistai and I know you're going to say,
No, no, no, I didn't want them involved in all of this.
Damn it. I didn't want the Leistai involved.
I'm not a Leistace. Jesus says very famously, right?
Leistace, where are they?
I'm sorry, they're Leistace from Caria.
And look at the last word, foiny case.
These are those traders in the purple.
These are those traders in the purple.
I think that we would have all the worship of Artemis
without the purple, didn't you?
That stuff is all based on where she is working, right?
What part of the planet she is working on
with her hunting cult and what poisons they're using.
They're finding this stuff right now, people.
They're finding it right now.
Finally, last one, four we're going to bring on.
It's too many. I'm 10 minutes over and Neil, I apologize.
Her name was originally Asteria.
I want you to remember that.
For those of you who have begun to see the emergence
of what was the mystery and what that meant to those people
and all of the really human stuff,
like the spreading of the poop on the body
or the getting Christ it in your throat
or the master barry with Mary Magdalene and eating it,
all of that stuff, all that real concrete anthropological stuff.
You should know that this goes back to that great bringer of dawn.
People tell me all the time,
there is no Satan until the Christians make him up.
Boy, are you wrong?
Yeah, he predates your guys by thousands, baby.
Love it. Okay, here's what I'm going to do.
I set you up with Lady Liberty.
I wanted you to see who she is.
I wanted you to see that triune combination of Hecate,
Minerva and Artemis.
I wanted you to see that bronze age goddess,
that primordial divinity that rocks everyone.
I wanted you to see her because she is Lady Liberty.
Now, we're going to have Neil join us.
Go ahead and bring in Neil.
Let's bring in Neil. Here we go.
I'm sorry, Neil, that it took me so long to get through that.
Yeah, okay, now you have some powerful stuff.
I'm going to ask some questions when you're done,
but I'm going to let you talk now
because you were giving me sources.
Neil was feeding me sources.
I'm like, God, that guy is out of control with the sources.
He's just knocking it down.
So go ahead and knock it down. I'm going to give you the stage.
Yeah, by the way, I was watching and this is why I love Ammo
because he does not care what the...
He's not going to let the audience capture him.
You were up at 900 something people watching
and then you threw that Trump thing on this thing
and then you started going off on Trump
and then I watched as 100 to 200 maybe people dropped off.
I can no longer support Ammo anymore for this.
Trump is my king.
Well, too bad.
That's Ammo for you.
It is what it is. Take it or leave it.
That's why I love Ammo.
So this is about liberty.
There's a God who's called Liber.
That is Dionysus.
This is his day.
This is the holy day for Dionysus.
No other God can be associated with freedom and liberty
other than Liber himself.
So the first thing I want to do is I want to share my screen
on the bottom left with the Minerva statue there.
All right.
So let me make this bigger so you can not...
Yeah.
This is Minerva.
She stands at the top of Washington, D.C.
on top of the Capitol building.
There's no cross on top of the Capitol building.
There's no Jesus on the crucifix standing on the...
This ain't St. Peter's Square.
This is the United States of liberty.
That's Minerva.
That's the God.
Look, she holds the sword and the shield.
And she's wearing the toga.
That is the symbol of society, of civilization.
That's Athena.
That's the Athenian God, right?
That's what democracy and the republic stems from.
I'm going to demonstrate that.
That was the intent purpose of this project.
That wasn't perfect in the beginning,
but it started something that has the potential
to be the greatest country in the world, in my opinion.
So there's Minerva.
There's no statue of Christ.
There's no Ten Commandments.
There's no cross.
It's Minerva.
So what do the Founding Fathers think?
What do they say?
Well, let's go through some of their quotes that we have
from various letters, from various...
Whether it be, you know, different Senate hearings,
we have these transcripts that have survived to us,
and we can read them.
Thomas Jefferson says,
Though God who gave us life gave us liberty at the same time.
Remember, Bacchus is called Zoe,
and he's called Liber, right?
Let's see this.
The hand of force may destroy, but cannot destroy them.
What God is he talking about?
Well, he says this in another quote.
The Christian God is a being of terrific character,
cruel, vindictive, capricious, and unjust.
That doesn't sound like the God who gave us liberty in life.
He says Christianity is the most perverted system
that ever shone on man.
Christianity neither is nor ever was a part of the common law.
He also says that the Christian God can easily be pictured
as virtually the same God as the many ancient gods
of past civilizations.
The Christian God is a three-headed monster,
cruel, vengeful, and capricious.
If one wishes to know more of this raging,
three-headed beast like God, one only needs to look
at the caliber of people who say they serve him.
And I'm going to show you some examples of that.
There are always of two classes, fools and hypocrites.
And he talks about John Calvin.
He says, I can never join John Calvin in addressing his God.
Notice how it's not his God.
It's his God.
He was indeed an atheist, which I can never be.
Or rather, his religion was daemonism.
If ever man worshiped a false God, he did.
Talking about the God of Christianity,
John Calvin's God is the Protestant God.
He says, I am an Epicurean.
I consider the genuine, not the imputed doctrines of Epicurus
as containing everything rational and moral philosophy,
which Greek and Roman leave us.
Thomas Payne says, the Christian religion is derogatory
to the Creator in all its articles.
It puts the Creator in the inferior point of view
and places the Christian devil above him.
He calls the Christian devil.
It is he who, according to the absurd story in Genesis,
that outwits the Creator in the Garden Eden
and steals from him his favorite creature, man,
and at last obliges him to beget a son
and put that son to death to get man back again.
And this, the priests of the Christian religion
called redemption?
By the way, you have to read Thomas Payne's Age of Reason.
It's a must read for anyone in Lady Babylon.
If you haven't read that yet, you've got to get it on your list.
Oh, I skipped one.
Thomas Payne says, the Christian religion and masonry
have one in the same common origin.
Both are derived from the worship of the Son.
The difference between their origin
is that the Christian religion is a parody
on the worship of the Son in which they put a man
whom they call Christ in the place of the Son
and pay him the same adoration
which was originally paid to the Son.
As you can see, Thomas Payne was a mythicist.
He says, Christianity is the strangest religion
ever set up for committed a murder upon Jesus
in order to redeem mankind from the sin of eating an apple.
Love it.
So here's some, I'm putting this together.
And we already saw that Thomas Jefferson says, Christianity
neither is nor ever was a part of the common law.
And you can actually read this letter that he wrote.
I think it's like the early 19th century, 1804 or something like that
where he wrote this letter to one of his constituents
and he's basically saying the Ten Commandments
has nothing to do with common law.
It's just purely nonsense.
He says, I think I'm going to get to that quote.
I think I had that quote here somewhere.
John Adams says, the government of the United States
is not in any sense founded on the Christian religion.
Thomas Payne saying something similar,
saying that all national institutions of churches
where the Jewish Christian appeared,
no other than human inventions,
set up to terrify and enslave mankind.
And then James Madison says, religion and government
will both exist in greater purity
the less they are mixed together.
In the Treaty of Tripoli,
signed into law by President John Adams in 1797,
says, as the government of the United States of America
is not in any sense founded on the Christian religion
as it has in itself no character of enmity against laws,
religion or tranquility of Muslim men, Muslims.
And as said in the States,
never ended in any war or act
in any hostility against any Mohammedan nation.
It is declared by the parties that no pretext
arising from religious opinion
shall ever produce an interruption of the harmony
existing between these two countries.
We are not a fundamentalist religious
10 commandments based country.
Thomas Jefferson wrote in his autobiography,
by the way, if there are people online who tried to deny
that this actually exists, but it does.
And in fact, there are scholars of Thomas Jefferson
who say this actually existed in another letter
that got deleted.
We lost the original, but we have like a copy of that.
But it's also in Thomas Jefferson's autobiography.
So we still have it regardless of who lost it,
where he says that the preamble declares,
where the preamble declares that coercion
is a departure from the plan of the Holy Author of our religion.
An amendment was proposed.
So, you know, the Christians that are around
in the early days of finding this republic,
you know, they're trying to get their God in there
and trying to get, we should put Jesus in the Constitution.
This is what he's talking about.
He says that an amendment was proposed
by inserting the word Jesus Christ
so that it should read a departure from the plan of Jesus Christ,
the Holy Author of our religion.
This is where he comes in and says,
this insertion was rejected by a great majority.
That tells you a lot.
A great majority rejected that outright
and proved that they meant to comprehend
within the mantle of its protection,
the Jew and the Gentile, the Christian and the Mahabbanan
and the Hindu and infidel of every denomination.
So they rejected that they should put Jesus Christ
in any of the documents of the Constitution
or the Declaration or any of that stuff.
Get him out of there, he said.
Benjamin Franklin says,
I wish Christianity were more productive of good works.
I mean, real good works, not holy daykeeping,
sermon hearing, making long prayers
filled with flatteries and compliments
despised by wise men
and much less capable of pleasing the deity.
They're just trashing this thing.
He says, I found the Christian dogma
unintelligible early in life.
I absenteed myself from Christian assemblies,
Benjamin Franklin.
Thomas Jefferson writes a letter to William Short
where he says, I'm an Epicurean.
We already read this one.
He says, Epicurious containing everything rational and moral
and philosophy which Greece and Rome left us.
Epictetus indeed has given us what was good
of the Stoics all beyond of their doctrine
being hypocrisy and grimace.
Their great crime was their colonies
of Epicurious and misrepresentations of his doctrines
in which we lament to see the candid character
of Cicero engaging as an accomplice.
The merit of his philosophy is the beauties of his style.
Diffuse, rapid, rhetorical, but enchanting.
By the way, he shits on Plato here too.
Look what he says down here.
Of Socrates, we have nothing genuine
but at the memorial of Xenophon.
For Plato makes him one of his own collocators
merely to cover his own whimsies
under the mantle of his own name.
By the way, what does he mean by that?
He's saying Plato, the Socrates we get in Plato
is like this guy trying to push forms
that Plato and Socrates never actually taught.
So it's just Plato making Socrates his own character,
his own hero.
So he shits on Plato here, which is awesome.
And then he says the whole great deal
of sound and practical morality,
but the greatest of all the reformers
of the depraved religion of his own country
was Jesus of Nazareth.
So John Adams also in another letter in January,
I don't know if this is, I can't see the date,
but the whole history of these books
is so defective and doubtful
that it seems vain to attempt minute inquiry into it.
And such tricks have been played with their text
with the text of other books relating to them,
that we have a right from that cause
to entertain much doubt
what parts of them are genuine.
There's just so much evidence that they left behind
that they were not trying to create a Christian nation.
But what kind of nation do they want?
Well, let's continue.
He says, Christian philosophy,
the most sublime and benevolent,
but most perverted system that ever shown on man
endeavored to crush your well-earned
and well-deserved fame,
as he writes to Joseph Priestly in 1801.
Now, what are actual people
who profess Christianity believing?
You got Adolf Hitler, who says,
as a Christian, I have a duty to allow myself
to be cheated, but I have the duty
to be a fighter for truth and justice.
You know, the people who actually claim Christianity
is where you get people like Hitler and Mussolini.
You know what I mean?
No one in our ranks who attacks the ideas of Christianity,
Adolf Hitler.
Today, I believe that I am acting in accordance
with the will of the Almighty Creator,
Adolf Hitler.
I am now, as before, a Catholic,
and will always remain so.
So, all right, so now I want to show you something.
There is Minerva, you know, Libera.
And look, you got Priapis wearing the Phrygian cap
and all that. This is all good symbolism.
But the thing I want to show you guys now,
what kind of nature...
Whoa, did I click on that?
Was that...
Oh, hold on on that. That's the last one.
That's the banger at the end.
Hold on on that. Thank you for that, though.
I'm glad it's ready to go.
Before we get to that, what you just heard,
that sounded like a star-spangled banner, didn't it?
So let's...
What kind of...
What is the God of Liberty, right?
What is... What's going on here?
So let me... I'm going to share something, not that one,
but I'm going to go to a different thing.
It's called the Anachronistic Song.
Right?
And actually, you know, I'm sorry,
before I even get to this,
let me back up for a second.
Let me share something else first.
I have something interesting that I want to share.
These are the councils that we get
from the church back in the day.
These are old councils
where they...
We can actually go back as historians
and we can look
at what laws are being passed
by actual Christian nations.
Are they... Are they Liberty-loving Christians?
Are they...
Are they letting everyone just be who they are
as long as, you know, we have Christ
and everyone can be who they are.
We're going to accept everybody. Let's find out.
This is the council in Trulo
in this late 7th century.
And this is going to blow some of your minds
on what kind of laws they were passing
against the common folk.
You know, I hear people talk
about all the time that Christianity
is this religion that always
is looking down at the downtrodden
and allowing
for the help
to help all people.
But it does that...
It uses that as a mask
to do what it has to do,
which is create
more division
and to get more power.
So this is a...
We're looking at these ancient
texts that come down
from the 7th century.
And the 62nd canon sets forth
restrict prohibitions
against the worship of the abominable
Dionysus. Check this out, ready?
I'm going to blow right through this,
but I want to highlight a few things
that we found from this text
that is just amazing,
mind-blowing, has everything
to do with the opposite of liberty.
So
the 6th Acumenical Council
has resolved
a monothelic controversy
but failed to deal with the demoralization
of Byzantine society.
So what is going on here?
Why are they passing all these new canons?
Well, it turns out that under
Emperor Justinian
who stands ahead of the canons
mentions that some remainder
of pagan or
Jewish perversity
needs to be dealt with.
So this frequent references
in the proclamation to the devil
as the dragon
or the Assyrian, the man slaying
demon, the pagan gods
and particularly Dionysus,
who by the way is
Liber, Freedom.
We're identified as demons, right?
And it says
if we're just going to blow right through this,
I just want to show you some of these,
so highlight some of this amazing stuff
what we find here.
The survival of pagan cults
and practices among Christians
alarmed imperial and ecclesiastical
authorities. We're talking late in the 7th century now.
It seems partly because
the Empire still had a highly visible
but not very large
pagan population. By the way,
that warms my heart to hear this
that people in those days
even against, even after Theodosius
shut down all the temples
and closed down all the
libraries and basically
made it so there's only one religion now
and everyone else is a heretic.
People still held on
to their traditions. They had to go underground
and they had to go deep into
the mountains and the wilderness, as you're going to see right here.
He says very little
information survives in the sources about
the continuation of pagan cults.
That's because they're not in a lot, these pagans don't exist in libraries anymore.
They have no control
over text. It's all
the church now. But the pagans
do exist. They're just underground
and they're not in control of anything.
Which is why there's hardly any sources
about them. But it will be recalled
that in 542, John of
Ephesus, with the assistance of
Deuterius,
the metropolitan
of Keria,
by the way, that's an Asia Minor,
Keria, undertook, that's where the great
mother was worshiped by the way, undertook
the catechization of the pagans of western
Anatolia,
the regions of Asia, Keria,
Lydia, and Phrygia.
John himself penetrated the mountains
country near trails
and convinced many idol worshipers
to embrace Christianity. Convinced,
right? Remember that. Convinced.
Or more like forced.
He directed these activities from a monastery
at Deerear,
at the time entered a rough mountain
area, where a celebrated pagan
temple containing
1500 idols
existed. I love it.
I wish I could find these people.
I wish I could go back in time and find these people.
It would be amazing. The conversion of these
populous regions was accomplished
by the foundation of more
than 100 churches
and monasteries.
They're just
repurposing old pagan temples.
The maintenance of these institutions
was necessary to prevent the
apostasy of the vast new congregation.
The population
of these regions evangelized by John
practiced the enthusiastic cult
of Kubli,
which featured orgiastic rituals
including self-castration.
The strength of paganism
in these areas, even after John's
missionary work, is attested
by the persistence of his cult
practice in Keria well
into the 8th century
as cosmos of Jerusalem states.
Following a description
of the cult of Kubli,
until the present day
certain irrational pagans in the mountains
of Keria castrate themselves
and is related, ruled by
this ancient custom.
Damn, all the way in the 8th century
they're still doing this.
By the way, they found, they find
temples of Kubli and Addis
all the way in Germany in the Rhine
and
they actually, we actually have
one of my coming up videos.
There's evidence of
the pine tree
ritual. The one that everyone says
only happened in the March
Aquinox Festival.
I found a text that says that
on December 9th
in December, they were doing
the pine tree ritual all the way
in like the 7th century.
So the whole idea that
there was no evidence of anyone doing anything
with pine trees in paganism in Germany
doesn't exist. That's false.
I'm going to show that in one of my coming up videos.
Not saying that's the,
I'm not even saying that where the
Christmas tree comes from. I'm just saying
the idea that there's no evidence
of pagans doing anything with
pine trees in Germany is just false.
And it's not even that it's not
false, it's in December too.
Anyways, let's go through this real quick.
I got a couple more things that I want to point out.
The 62nd canon
enumerates
several Greco-Roman cult festivals
and forbids their celebration.
The Brumalia, the Bota, the
Calens, and the 1st of March.
The Brumalia was the traditional
festival of Dionysus
and the Bota, that of Pan.
Celebrated at the Winter Solstice,
the Brumalia can have been
little more than a calendar custom by this time.
Remember, they don't have
the state behind them anymore.
They are underground, they are private pagans.
As the final stage of the wine
cycle, when the
fermented liquid was poured into jars,
this festival
had an obvious pagan significance
and its juxtaposition with Christmas
must have offended.
I love this.
We're talking about sources well
late in the 7th and 8th century.
They're still doing this whole
Christmas versus paganism thing.
Must have offended
the austere Justinian the 2nd.
How offensive you guys are
for practicing your own rituals.
The Brumalia had attained
respectability as a holiday
by the late 7th century
and persisted despite the
injunction of this canon.
They're not listening.
They don't care about your Christianity.
They're doing what was passed
down to them.
For example, it was celebrated at the
Imperial Court during the reign of Constantine V.
The survival of such cults including that of Pan,
the Peloponnese suggest the continuous
existence of an ethnically Hellenic
population in European Greece.
Check this out, ready?
This is where shit gets wild.
The 62nd canon
forbade the invocation
of the name
of the abominable Dionysus
when the grapes were crushed
in the wine vats.
Bidiculturists
were also cautioned to
avoid frivolous laughter.
You can't laugh.
Laughter is illegal
while pouring the fermented wine
into jars because that meant
cooperation with the god.
The ecclesiastical authorities
regarded such agrarian earth gods
as demons and eventually
feared the apostasy
of the wine producers.
Now, if you've been paying attention
to me and Amor on Lady Babylon
for the last few weeks,
we pointed out
that the Bacchic chant
Ya'o or Ye
it's either Ye,
Yo, or Ya'o
sometimes is Eva or Iwa.
Those are Bacchic chants
that wine
that people who produce wine,
people who cut the grapes
who are different
times of the year were these
agricultural pagan sites
that honored Dionysus
and the great mother and Demeter.
They would chant these Bacchic chants out
Ya'o, Ya'o, Ya'o
and they would get into this
frenzy
and they'd start laughing, really creating
this Bacchic frenzy
and they would chant Ya'o, Ya'o, Ya'o.
They're saying
in the 62nd canon
in the late 8th century
or 7th century
that they made this illegal.
No longer were people who produced wine
were allowed to chant
to Dionysus or
get into
frivolous laughter.
So, not only is the
freedom god, Liber,
illegal,
but chanting his name is illegal
and laughing is illegal.
This is the most anti-liberty
movement that has ever touched
the face of this planet, Christianity.
The 62nd canon
also forbade certain cult practices.
Dances
in honor of the pagan gods
were proscribed.
These seem to have been performed
on the 1st of March
which the canonist Balsamon
refers to as a great pagan festival.
The
dawning of comic, satiric
and tragic mask
were also prohibited.
Balsamon explicitly links
wearing of satiric mask
with the cult of Dionysus
who's called Liber,
Liber in Latin.
But this was not the only reason
for this law. It attacked
as well the custom
of mumming because the clergy
sometimes wore dramatic mask
at festivals and even brought
them into the churches.
Finally, men and women were
enjoined not to masquerade
as members of the opposite sex.
That's illegal too.
The detailed
attention given to these matters suggests
the cult of Dionysus
lasted among Christians
until the time of the council.
Although the urban population
of the empire probably kept the
Bromali as a mere holiday,
the agriculturist, particularly the wine
producers, inherited
this pagan cult as part of their trade.
Good for them.
The 61st canon
describes a different type of paganism.
In times of cataclysm
such as the invasion of the 7th century
fortune tellers and seers
do a windfall business.
The canon catalogs several types of diviners.
Alright, so you get the point.
I'll put a link in the description
for Chewie to put in the description. People can read this for themselves.
But the point is
they are anti-freedom.
They are passing canons
all throughout the dark ages
saying you can't laugh,
you can't chant your gods,
you can't... all this stuff is illegal.
So it says right here
um
Priests of Delphi
in a regular fashion resembling that of
the Priests of Delphi.
That was
condemned as illegal
from the 60th canon.
They probably did for private gain.
Women practiced this.
So the Priests of Delphi is not illegal.
The pagan deities were regarded as demons,
being possessed,
actually possessed.
So they're basically, okay, freedom is
longer allowed. No more laughing,
no more chanting to your gods,
no more agricultural rituals.
That is now illegal.
So all this stuff is in here for people to
co-read it for themselves.
I also want to um
I want to show some people some stuff real quick.
So Liber.
That's Dionysus in the
Latin. That's where you get the word
liberal from.
Liberty.
Yesterday and today,
July is a day of liberty.
They had their own festival called
Liberalia.
But ours in America is July 4th.
It's the Liberalia of America.
Now,
people are probably wondering what was going on with that song,
right?
So I'm going to share one more screen
real quick.
And I want someone, I just want to show you guys something
real quick.
So
if you don't mind,
I'm going to pull something up real quick.
Um,
one second.
Inauguriantic song.
All right.
This is one more couple more things I want to show you.
This is the banger now. So this is called the
Inauguriantic song. You might have heard this before
when Chewie pulled up that
thing. Now,
what is this song, right?
Well, I'm just going to play you the tune first
and then I'm going to immediately recognize
what it sounds like.
So everyone knows
what that is, right?
That's the Star Spangled Banner, right?
Well, no, the Star Spangled
Banner
doesn't exist until
1960.
This is the original
song of liberty
called the Inauguriantic song.
So first, before I even play the song,
I want to, I want to explain
something first.
All right. Who is
who is, uh, first of all, who is Inaugurious,
right?
Inaugurion
is an ancient Greek
language, right?
We're talking about
6th century BCE
to the 5th century BCE.
He was a Greek lyric poet
notable for his drinking songs
and erotic poems. He honored
Dionysus, right?
And as you're going to find out,
all right, so that's just a quick, you guys can look
them up yourself. I want to
speed through and get to the
best part about this. The Inauguriantic
song is an 18th
century song from
a secret organization
of freedom lovers, of
worshipers of Dionysus and
Venus.
Secret
society, if you will, amongst
not just Americans, but in England as well,
especially in London.
London and Washington had this connection
under the Inauguriantic
banner, which is the song you just
heard. The lyrics of this song
are this.
To Inauguriant in heaven,
few sons of harmony sent
to petition. The Myrtle
and Venus with Bacchus' vine
and you get like the yellow-haired
god in his nine-mutt
fusty maids.
Apollo rose up,
right? So we're going to play the song,
but I just want to give you a little run
through these lyrics. This is not a Christian
song. This is a pagan
song. And by the way, anyone who
knows esoteric
symbolism
knows when you combine
Venus with Bacchus, you get Lucifer.
Venus is Lucifer
and Bacchus is Liber.
So when you put them together
and you twine them into one,
you get Lucifer.
This is an ode to Lucifer.
Apollo is the Lightbringer, right?
So
now that we know
what was really going on in 1776,
what gods were really
being honored in this
religion we call
liberalism, whatever you want to call it,
freedom.
Let's play the clip on the bottom now.
Is it playing?
Can you guys hear that?
I can't hear anything.
I got a better way to play it.
I got a better way to play it.
I'm going to go to
I got it on another folder.
So I'll give you one second.
Alright.
Sorry about that.
Let me share my screen.
There we go.
To a napkin
in heaven
where he sat in fully
a few sons
of harmony
sent a petition
that
he, their inspirer
and patron, would be
when this answer
arrived
from the jolly
omission,
hoist fiddle
no longer be mute
while then
knew my name
and inspired you
to vote
and besides I'll instruct
you like me to
entwine
the Myrtle of Venus
with the
caresses vine
and besides I'll instruct
you like me to
entwine
the Myrtle of Venus
with the caresses vine
with the caresses vine
the sons
of an acryon
and joint
and in the hand
preserve you non-immigrant
friendship
and love
discourse to support
what so happily
planned
the sanction of gods
and the fiat
of joe
while thus we are
we, our toast
that we'd be
may our club flourish
happy, united
and free
and come make the sons
of an acryon
entwine
the Myrtle of Venus
with the caresses vine
and come
make the sons
of an acryon
entwine
the Myrtle of Venus
with the caresses vine
there we go, excellent
that's it
that's what I wanted to present to you as
God of this country
as Liber
Venus and Bacchus, not Christ
that was
the most gorgeous moment
that I've had
in a very long time
I felt, I'm choking back tears
I'm serious, I'm choking back tears
because
isn't it amazing
Neil, when you
discover what your origin
is and you realize
what's behind it, isn't it gorgeous
what do you tell me something about America
that you know now that
I mean, that was just gorgeous but just
you know
let me say something on that, perfect
because when you look at history
it's very clear
when you start reading the primary sources
throughout time periods
just get a little bit of mercy in every century
start finding out who are the big writers
of every century and just start reading
a little bit about them and what they're talking about
and what's going on
and you see a clear shift
in the world
all the way back to the Bronze Age
through the classical period
through the Hellenistic era
all the way through the Roman Empire
and then there's a shift that happens
once
the temples get shut down
once people are no longer allowed
to express their spiritual
artistic
wants
things that they believe in
once you force dogma down people's throats
society goes from
being colorful and three-dimensional
to being two-dimensional, flat
and black and white
and dead, dark ages
that's the best way to describe it
there's so many people today that want to defend Christianity
from the term dark ages
like it's some sort of illegal thing to say
like you can't say dark ages anymore
that's not correct
but I challenge those people
all the time and they can never
let's go through the sources
what are the great classic literature
that we find from the 5th century
up until Dante
because Dante is great
I like Dante
I like some of these Renaissance writers
but what do you got
you got
there's nothing
good
yeah and Dante is drawing
the classical muse
he just took the 6th
of Virgil's
and he's like
I'm gonna blow this into a gigantic
work
that's another thing
the good works that you do find
are from crypto pagans
it's always some pagan shit
it's like what
there's a text from
Saint Maximus the Confessor
that's a classic text
not bullshit
I don't care about the trinity
I don't care about
what Augustine said about the nature
of Christ
that's all the text you're gonna get
from the dark ages
so it was dark ages
the literature is trash
Saint Maximus the Confessor
you hit that right on the head
who wants to read something from
Saint Maximus the Confessor
I don't want to read that trash
much less do I want to be forced
to have everybody
in society come up through
that trash
we're not gonna make that the basis
we're not gonna go backwards
right, Julian the Apostate
is sitting there yelling
he's like you've gotta stop them
the Christians are going to overthrow
your society
and they did
they did and they plunged us into the
depths
after a legal
can't burst out in the laughter anymore
not even that one text that I showed tonight
I found other texts
from similar time periods
where they'll talk about
excessive laughter is something
demonic
that people, a good Christian
is always very
keeps his cool and very stoic
and
and excessive
laughter is seen as like
and feminine and weak
it's ingrained
that's joy
that's all it is, you're making joy a bad thing
and this is what Nietzsche gets into
Christianity
it castrates
the spirit of humanity
and it makes
joy into something that's bad
and it makes being weak
into something that's good
completely flips everything
on its head
and pulls
the hilarious is bad
because we don't want to celebrate
the hilarious
I love it
I love it
tell me what you think
now that we're at this point
this is a question I really wanted to ask you
based on
all your life experience
everything that you have learned
from these texts
and how you've educated
yourself and kind of
made yourself all big brain
right from all of that
what is happening
now
to us as a people
if you're just to say
look we're going to go forward in time
because they're going to interview us the historians
in the future and they want to know
where were you mentally
where is
America mentally right now
it's
where is it mentally
well I mean this is a pretty
hectic time period with this election coming on
look
I'm not saying I like Joe Biden or anything
I'm not even going to get political right now but I'm just going to say
I don't like Joe Biden
I think he's gone
I don't think he even exists
I don't even think he exists
I'm a Joe Biden mythicist
I don't even think anyone's there
on the flip side of that
something very, very valid
is that there's some king
coming up or some new emperor
worshipping going on on the other side
so
what's the mental state of America right now
it's just two extreme sides
that are
ruining it for everybody in the middle
there you go
right I did want to say
because it's not political
and that's what Tom
Jefferson was trying to give us along
with a bunch of other people
was the ability to
exercise our politea
you know we got to do that Neil
I don't care people silence you
don't talk politics
excuse me
let's talk some history
that is politea
and what we're coming up on
is a radical shift
we're coming up to a radical shift
in power
in the United States of America
the entire world is watching
and it
just like the greeks said
the greeks said all the gods
abandoned
the greeks
you know what trump is
trump is Dionysus of Sicily
yeah right
I can see that
I can see that
but we have gotten
to a place
you're going to see a radical shift
in how power is
used and what's
funny is all of those things
none of those constitutional
breaks matter
if you don't worship
justice the greeks
said when the gods
abandoned mortals
they said the last god
to leave was justice
and the reason she left
is because the courts
were getting paid
the courts were getting paid
we have anointed
someone who is above the law
and our presidency
think about this
our presidency from now on
and this is the decision of a court
that has taken more money
than any other
supreme court
right
what happened
what happened
justice
because of that money
with her she takes liberty
now people will say
oh god what are you talking about
I'm just talking history people
I'm just telling you what happened
cyclically through time
hail cleo is right
the muse of history
if we just watch what happens
you said trump is like
tyrant
yes that's the point
do you know who they went to
in democratic Greece
if we were in democratic Athens
excuse me if we were in democratic Athens
and we wanted to solve
the conundrum that America
is in the midst of
we'd send somebody
to the oracle
and sometimes the oracle
would send back a message that says
you've got to kill
the tyrants
you've got to kill tyrants
when George Washington
stepped aside
he wasn't going to be made one of these
tyrants because George Washington
drank from a pure stream
and I'm telling you
a pure classical stream
and the problem is
George Washington is right now
being remade
he's being remade do you know
they're saying oh yeah there's a famous place
where he kneeled down and prayed
that never happened
not historical
yeah so
I don't know tell me what you think about
there's this
there's this push to try to make
the founding fathers
into something like all the evidence
points to them being
not fans of Christianity at all
and going in the opposite direction
but there's still this shift to go
they kind of liked it
they kind of thought it was really cool
philosophical it's like no
the evidence does not suggest that
what it does say is that
they were in a serious time
they were going up against a king
who wants to
you know he wants to
it's king
king George
and so they have to do whatever they have to do
that means making alliances with
local churches of Puritans
they're going to do that
so you've got to realize there obviously
there's some politics going on
I thought your comment
I thought your comment
that you brought up the text
and you showed us
people were trying to enter Jesus Christ
in your constitution
and they were like no
this ain't happening right
you think the freedom of religious
expression which is so important
you think it's so important
for the wrong reason
it's important so that you and I
we can be pagans and the Christians
can say no you can't
right people think it's
it's a religious thing
it obviously is something the Christians put into it
no no no
it's the rest of us who were saying
saying look we've got to be protected
from any sort of one religion
it gets out of hand
right and this is
what you see with people who tried to defend
Christianity from people like Hitler
where Hitler is actually saying
he's a Catholic and he's
announcing to the people
he's putting that
that
what do you call it a stamp on himself saying
I am a Christian you don't get that
with Jefferson
with pain
with Washington
with Franklin they never even just
even just to be a politician
let's just say for this
for the sake of argument Hitler really wasn't a Christian
he was just doing it to be
as a politician sort of like what Trump does
fine
but the founding fathers weren't even willing to do that
they stuck
to the moral principle
and did not even pretend to be Christians
there wasn't even pretending going on
so even if you do
grant there's a pretending going on with Hitler
the fact that he's still pretending to do it
means he's using it
using it for his own
do you understand what I'm saying he's using it as a device
for that purpose
and that's what you find Christianity being used for
all the way from the time of
even from Constantine
to Theodosius
to Justinian all the way into Europe
it's always being used for this reason
yeah what's the difference there between
Trump and Constantine
right he's he's
he realizes the same thing that Trump did
oh I can embrace this
constituency they'll support me
and he only needed 30%
support and that's what he got with Christianity
and it locked him into power
so I don't know what's
any difference between
that sort of tyranny
and the tyranny that
we are up against now
and people are
I know people are going to sit there and go
what are you talking about what you know what I'm talking about
I'm talking about the classics
and I'm talking about stuff that Tom Jefferson as you
saw tonight was talking about
and if you study those
writings you can see
we're on the road
we're on the road to tyranny people say
oh no no no right
I said on John
on John Price's
show
from the very start I said
unless you shed that blood
to liberty you
you lose your liberty
the only reason they're saying that is because
they know this classical wellspring
and antiquity they worship
the muse Tom Thomas
Jefferson worships
the muse and
I don't know
let's say predictions what's going to
do you have any predictions for the immediate future
don't try to go beyond 2024
because 24 is going to be
right the big one
do you have any predictions what are you like
you've studied a lot of history
so what do you think
could be some possibilities here
what I'm seeing right now is sort of
reminds me of in Athens
at the end of the 5th century
yeah yeah end of the 5th century BC
when you have
the 30 tyrant thing happened right
but you also have at the same time
you had Euripides performing the Bacchai
and the Euripides performing the Bacchai
was so powerful
that it installed into the minds of the people
the ability
to produce
the mystery which is
liberty which is Bacchic freedom
which is joyous laughter
which is going out and having a frenzy
and enjoying nature
and worshiping and
not condemning what is natural
but
pursuing it
instead
and then you have a flipping of the poles
happening at the end of the 5th century
right after Euripides performs the Bacchai
the next year the 30 tyrants are all out
so
my prediction is
my prediction is that we're in a state
right now where
there needs to be
a performance such as Euripides
and I don't
mean like there needs to be another Bacchic play
I mean people need to be inspired
and those people who are inspired
need to inspire other people
in order to produce
some sort of
what Socrates
described as divine mania
that is what
that's the one thing that I would say
is why I'm not an atheist
because I do think that there is something
about inspiration
that is
that can't be described
without metaphysics
so the stage
we need that
that Bacchic theater back
I
totally understand that
my fear is
the stage that we have today
all the platforms whether it's
movies or whatever
YouTube
all the platforms we have today are not
the sacred Bacchic stage
could we bring back the
purificate I mean it would have to be
us we'd have to bring it back ourselves
you know and maybe
that's the point but
you notice how
with that council of 692
they were replacing
they were replacing these rituals
these ancient agricultural rituals
of wine production
that involved chanting out to
Dionysus
an excessive laughter
that gets replaced
with church dogma
so those old pagan temples
where wine production was being
done at gets replaced
with by a church if we go to Elucis today
in Athens there's a church there
if we go to Crete today near
Mount Ida a holy
Ida from all these ancient texts there's a church
there too all these ancient
sites there's a church there now
so that is the reverse
we need to go back to
maybe even repurposing old
broken down churches that no one's using
and converting that into
something like a theater yeah
yeah there's got to be some way
that I think
I think you hit on there with Elucis
if you
can reproduce the mysteries
you can purge
your society I don't think
modern theater
can do that because modern theater
and movies they're all tied into money
right if we were to
somehow bring out
the actual performance
do the actual purgations
you know I'm talking about all the
wizardry all the drugs
all the
death induction of death
and resurrection you know we're going to lose a few
I
think that you could then purge
the society but we don't have that mechanism
even those pagans
that's the main thing that needs to be done
inspiration needs to be happening
yeah
when you lose that
inspiration society is dead
that's why people like Petrarch
and Machiavelli and Brumi and
all these guys were calling it the Dark Ages
because they're looking at the texts
they're looking at the classical literature and going
it's dead
it's dark there's no more colorful
there's no more mythology
it's all dark
the only word to describe it is dark
yeah
so it needs to be colored back up again
it doesn't lead you to Aphrodite
and Bacchus does it
that's why
that is the message of that song
and that's the chorus
that's the
what do you call it the main line of a song
called the chorus right
notice how every time that chorus hit
it was always
with the myrtle with Venus
and Bacchus is vine
yeah
because that entwined with the myrtle and the vine
that's the light bringing
God Lucifer
that was a gorgeous
that was a gorgeous
whoever wrote that
that really is Inaugurion that wrote that song
or is that an ode to Inaugurion
that's what those Brits were coming up with
studying
and trying to take on the spirit now
and they know Inaugurion was big
because
Aeschylus
who was really the master of bringing that
Bacchic procession to the stage
he
was a big fan
so big into Inaugurion
used a lot of what was in Inaugurion
already lots of illusions to it
so
a whole vein of beautiful
beautiful clear water that spring
that they hit into
that thing reverberated all the way up to those Brits
in the 18th century
who were sitting around to having
their anachronistic club
yeah
fantastic thank you
I said we would get back to the Brits right
thank you Islanders
for your contribution
those Brits were Liberty Loving Brits
who were in association
with
were also
helping out the Americans
that were trying to fight against King George
they weren't like
what's the word of the Brits that
follows George
whatever you call that
I'm not a
American Revolution
yeah but no there's like a name
for the ones who are
follow under George
that aren't the rebels
those Anachronistic people were not those guys
they were rebels
they were rebel spirits
and it's not just in Brits
it's also in French
when you look into the sources
Thomas Jefferson and George Washington
were in deep communication
with the liberal French
so this is
right before Napoleon comes along
there was this Liberty Movement
in France
aligned with the Liberty Movement
in England
which is also aligned with the Liberty Movement in America
there was a huge Liberty Movement
happening across the globe
basically
that's where Tom got all his wine from
is from that French
I think the French kept that
Libertas
I think they kept that bottled up in their ground
and they sucked it out through that wine
I think they did the same thing
they were doing in antiquity
oh god and if you don't think
that the French have a propensity
to be drawn
to Aphrodite and Bacchus
you're like oh have you lived
have you lived have you been over there
go over there right now man
oh god
that's what neoclassical
art is like in its prime
is in the French
in the 18th century France
where they start building up new museums
and statues
of Venus or Hermaphroditus
and Bacchus
and all these beautiful paintings come out of France
and this is what I mean
by inspiration
it can be painters
it doesn't have to be a play
it doesn't have to be a movie
it can be paintings, it can be songs
but that's what is so important
to the spirit of humanity
is that you have
those outlets that are not
shut down with these cannons
canon laws
planting Bacchus
oh no no more of this, no no no more of that
and then that's what kills society
so it makes society dark
but the inspiration that can come from paintings
that can come from statues
sculptures
building styles
whether it be like Ionic columns
or Doric columns or whatever
architecture
everything goes back to inspiration
everything inspires
just walking through the countryside
and looking at the sunset
can be inspiration
so nature itself can inspire
and that's what I mean
Christianity does this thing where
it blocks you off from inspiration
and it siphons you off
into a dogmatic
worldview
that is completely fake
and it's completely antithetical to nature itself
I'll stand by this statement
for the rest of my life
the first thing that ever happened in humanity
okay so with that
I'll ask you the last question
with that in mind right
not blowing that off what you just said with that in mind
what's gonna happen
when they take over
to people like you
and me
they will make
so you're saying like these
far right Christian movements
get in power, what will happen
oh my speech
will be completely shut down
whatever
whatever outlets I have
to express my opinions will immediately be smothered
I'll be blocked on
all these social media platforms
and basically just be relegated
to the underground
in some fashion and who knows
it might even go as far as like
legal problems
and there might be some like blasphemy
laws against me something like that
alright if you can take
now wait a minute this isn't a world
people are saying no no we're not there
you're the Germans
who sat around and watched the Nazis
come to power and didn't do anything
this is how it works
people they just put the 10 commandments
these are the 10 commandments
in your classrooms
what about the future laws
that will outlaw things
that are in those commandments
like making images of God
what about that kind of thing
how far are we away from that
how far are we away from putting people
to death for a whole bunch of things
that typically
Americans don't put people to death
right come on man
right okay I understand
the really really bad people
who friggin deserve it
that I understand but dude
taking somebody because
her fetus was dead
and she was trying to get it extracted
she has to be dying too
before she can get extracted
we are back in 1331
and one of the next movements
is to take away
women's right to vote
when I heard that I thought
what a bunch of geniuses
they're serious
popular right-wing Christians
that are pushing for that
they even got women in those movements
pushing for that
I don't get it do you get it
that's what Christianity does to you
it puts you in that state
where that's all you can do
is serve this one God
there's a reason why in Exodus
are the 10 commandments
the first 10 of the 613 laws
that Moses gives
the first one
is you shall have no other gods
before Yahweh
there's a reason why that is
it cuts off all inspiration
from all other outlets
gods stand for something
they represent something
Daiki represents justice
Bacchus represents liberty
all these Venus represents sex
all these gods represent something
when you cut off all of those
and there's no other god but Yahweh
you cut off all inspiration
from all different powers
that can come into you
Yahweh doesn't want you to have liberty
Yahweh doesn't want you
any monist I don't care
if it's Aten
that Akhenaten worshiped
any monist god is going to cut off
all the other things
in the world
that you and I want to
worship things like love
things like love baby
love it okay
I was totally impressed
totally impressed with
your research tonight
and I want to thank you for coming
it's a big deal for us
to be able to be together
when they come for us Neil
I'm going to point to you and I'm going to be like
he made me do it
think about the
the vast difference
between what you get
from these canon laws
of these churches in the 7th and 8th
and 10th century going back to Constantine
himself
the vast difference you see in those canon
laws compared to what you see
in your constitution
and then tell me is the constitution
Judeo-Christian
are you kidding me
they're complete diametrically
opposites of each other
period
look what he did people
he's using magic on you
he made those people look into the mirror
and see themselves
and it's not constitutional
I want to say thank you for coming Neil
we'll drop things short now
I feel like I'm taking up too many people's time
thank you so much for coming Neil
I'm going to say Hail Satan
and I'll give you the last word
Hail Satan
the idea of poisonous kisses
that girl you know she's got it
Hail Satan
we'll do this all the way to the roads
we'll pave a ride a bare horse
from the sunshine
blue-toned big-time wolfman
hillside root cutter grow it
dawn bring her shining in the morning
they puff a little bit of the chronic
poisonous dragon venom
darkness through dreams
frankincide tails up on the hill
I make it rain I spit the hot fire
heels above the verses
make sure they got bunny ears on the gold horns
smoking in the purple
of the Sabbath
I'm Teddy Bass Mr. Black Magic
singing hallelujah
Jeepers creepers hot purple move ya
root cutter evergreen tree grower
the antichrist you dream of
thunder from unhigh
Venus in the sky heavy on the drums
ate a weight funk
bar kick mania
my dear dance with me
where the purple flowers grow
those with eyes to see
a kiss of Athena
dream of Saturn
Uranus Venus dress
roots crawl from the stars
overhead
off it comes to the moon
or a curitual
with a kiss and a whip
Lady Babylon is with you
Lady Babylon is with you
you
