Time to work.
Deadly as you know.
Poison took the touch.
Rubba-dubba-dub.
The sea gave up its head.
Overflowing cup.
Hades extra love.
Thanos and Athena.
Dancing with Bumbadia.
The voice is in the wind.
Hear now why you listen.
Q-Sip Bumbadia.
Shouldn't mess with this.
My girl is poisonous.
Purple rain and kiss.
Elvira that's my chick.
Drake and Venom drip.
Fangrippin' her lip.
Catherine of the wheel.
Athena momadia.
Purple triple bema.
Sticky icky creeper.
The muse dance with Mia.
Sibyline Bumbadia.
Havoc's seen the dreamers.
My girl is poisonous.
Hit you with a kiss.
Drake and Venom drip.
Fangrippin' her lip.
Hit you with a kiss.
Drake and Venom drip.
Fangrippin' her lip.
I want to say thank you to everybody
involved with the music
and with the videos.
With all of the alphabet videos.
Those are fantastic.
People are pouring in
with support
for pushing forward.
I totally respect that.
That takes initiative.
I respect that.
Tonight I want to begin
with a little clip
from Gnostic Informant.
A taste.
It's a kick in your teeth.
Are you ready for some
history that you didn't know?
Are you ready for some of the dark, dark
goodness?
Some of that
anti-matter.
Here we go.
Chewie, I'm going to have Chewie run this clip
right up front.
Hit it.
Chewie, I'm going to have Chewie run this clip
right up front.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Epiphanias is gonna be
Preserving for us a whole bunch of the history of early Christianity and
People like to poo poo him and like to say oh epiphanias
Everything you say is wrong and questionable because oh it's so
Disgusting
Now on the classic side, it's not so disgusting. It's things that they're doing in mystery cult
So it's not shocking and it shouldn't be taken. It should be handled as a source. I was reading epiphanias today
Because Gnostic mentioned mentioned him and he says very very very clearly look
the
pagans
Right those Greek authors has he talks about him is the Greek authors in different fields, you know
Historiographers etc etc, you know, it's very specific kid
What good stuff and he says hey these Greek people, you know, they're always invoking calling upon this muse and
This muse is an earthly
Diamond and then he differentiates the muse from the Christian diamond what he who is called the tyrant and
And that Christian power is
Able to do certain things blah blah blah says epiphanias and then he goes through a list
He goes through a list of all of these different sex. Oh my god
It must be a thousand of those things. No, it's not a thousand. It's probably I don't know
I didn't count but it's dozens and dozens and dozens and dozens so a couple hundred at least
Um, yeah, maybe a hundred maybe a hundred any who
What I want you to notice is one of them has a gospel
One of these Christian groups has a gospel where Jesus takes Mary Magdalene up into the mountain. Oh
God, it's gonna go back from here. Isn't it? Yes, it is. Don't worry about it. It fits right into the mystery
But what is Mary Magdalene do?
She is forcibly
The receptacle of the hyma of Jesus
For those of you who thought
These things are all made up. I want you to realize they're coming to us right out of the Greek
Right out of the Greek and as people begin to see this and they begin to say oh my you know
It's there's always that awakening that moment punch in the face
Right, you mean Jesus was up in the mountain with Mary Magdalene and makes sense about why they were calling her
Prostitute and all that kind of stuff like that. It makes sense. Let's jump. Let's jump head first
Right into some words tonight now. I'm in you tonight
Technically we're looking we're starting unit one because everybody hit the alphabet and we all know it
We all know it
We can say it now if they stop us and make a city alphabet walk lines. We can say it. Don't do that though
Here we go and unit one and what I want to introduce you to what is unique to almond you that you won't get anywhere else is
I'm gonna show you how words work in the hands of the great Greek mother
This is gorgeous. Give me the first one. Get no give me the first one up at the top of the top beautiful
Give me the first one here. We go before before we get there
I need you to know for reference sake because you're gonna be dealing with people from the biblical study side and the religious history and that
That religious history is a little bit better
But the biblical study side those people are awful and they take the reality and they contort it
And they say there's a reality that is ours the Christian reality and it's this fairy tale
And then there's paganism and everything else
Right and the two are not the same thing. They're differentiating between two people walking down the same Roman sidewalk
God
What lies?
We're gonna get rid of the first linguistic lie tonight as you're sitting here at almond you and you are
Entering into the study of ancient Greek. I want you to realize what ancient Greek is
What does this say to you? It says how many words did ancient Hebrew have because the biblical studies people are gonna be throwing
Hebrew at you and it's completely
irrelevant
completely
Historically irrelevant. It is a lie a language of fabrication
How do we know that look?
Look how many words did ancient Hebrew have according to the
Gilad Zuckerman the number of attested biblical Hebrew word is
8198 of which some two thousand are
Hopos
Hopox legumina the number of biblical Hebrew roots on which many of these words are based is around 2000
Okay
Bear that in mind
Bear that in mind ready hit me with the TLG. This is the thesaurus lingua graikai
It's a program that was put together when I was in graduate school. I had nothing to do with it
Right, and it's able to search you're able to be able to to
Do searches on specific words and find all the examples of where they are in the
4,000 plus authors that we have
Okay
Watch the number of Greek words in the corpus amounts to one hundred and ten
million
Oh my god, you are so beautiful
Lady Greek you are so beautiful hundred and ten million you can't even fathom how much
Thankery has been
While the number of unique word forms and this is the one that's really important
I want you to pay attention as future classical
Philologist, I want you to pay attention unique word forms is at one point six
million how many did we have in Hebrew a couple thousand
And of those, you know, there's a lot of place names and whatnot
So you only got a few thousand words that you're eight that have been
Left behind right through a fabrication process have been left behind. It's really unworkable
It's unworkable
What is the Greek have it's got one point six million
Okay, one point six
Million unique words and you are going to start forming
Those unique words and I'm gonna show you today how to do that. Are you ready? I'm gonna flash up a word. Boom
Historia look people. How's that spelled? Yoda sigma town on the crown row Yoda alpha
Where is the accent? It's over the Yoda
It's history. Yeah, not history. Yeah
Okay, nice. And what is that little looks like the open an open quotation over the Yoda?
That is the rough breathing
Which means we're gonna add an H sound
Historia
Not history, but history
Fantastic look look how gorgeous. This is now. What does this word mean? I want you to look at this word
Admintally, I want you to kill every vowel
What are our vowels here? Yoda? Oh
Macron
Yoda
Alpha, I want you to kill them. And what do you have left? You have sigma town row
What is that you say that doesn't seem nice?
All the vowels are doing and Greek is tuning the bass
All right tuning that root
Tuning it watch this
Historia sigma town rose
Is our root go to the next one and
What do we do with that root? First of all, what is the word?
Historia mean notice they're gonna give you inquiry right up front, right?
Think about this think about this when you're reading at the third grade level of the Torah
From the Masoretic texts that they back translated in a thousand
Right on Odomini when you're reading at that third grade level
You're not gonna be able to get the nuances that you can in the Greek watch inquiry
Look at look at under a are you ready people people systematic or scientific observation?
Is that sexy is that sexy? It's not sheep
Right, it's sexy
It's not sheep. It's sexy. Oh
God look at it linguistic sexiness
Geometry talking about in relation to geometry knowledge obtained or
Information right what is that science that we're gonna be using it's an attempt to obtain knowledge, baby
It says on the Temple of Apollo know yourself
These people are all about no sis
They're all about
understanding
And that is what is in the word Historia now I tell all of my Greek students
I tell them when you're looking at a word
Most of the time the overwhelming majority of the time that word is gonna be derived from a verb
from an action
Yeah, not always but a good majority of the time
Go back to the verb always go back to the verb that this word comes from
Next slide and you'll see where it'll give you a kind of a sense first of all, what do we have up here?
Look what look what happened to my word?
It's like a rabbit and had a whole bunch under the
Fertility God of ancient Greek and had a whole bunch of offspring while we were sitting there talking look at these
Historia right at the top there practice people. He stole that. Oh, there's your verb
There's your verb and you don't know what that verb means. It means to ask the oracle your question
Is that gorgeous?
Historia ma history that on
Historia
You like that look as we're going through. What are you noticing as your eyes as your eyes?
You're moving over these words. Are you noticing the same route?
The same route look when we get about halfway down. We have
Historiografia
What do you think? Historiografia is if I tell you graph is the route for writing
Historiography the very idea now, that's a pretty good word for the SATs, you know, I mean, that's a pretty good one
That's not one that everybody uses today and a lot of these Greek words that you're going to come across
That the Anglo-Saxon tongue has managed to to hijack
Um
Those concepts you're gonna notice they're kind of it a you know, it's a kind of it an elevated level technically
Right, what is historiography? Hmm?
Yes
Yes, I love it love it and what else do we have what else do we have here at the bottom?
Yeah, he's story on what is a historian. That's a fact, baby
That's a fact. It's an incident. It's reality and occurrence
Really? Oh
That's what we remind going now. Give me give me some of the English
I'm sorry. Give me the next one. Here's the verb people that we're looking for and I want you to say it since you're learning the Greek
Spell it out for me Yoda Sigma Tau Omicron
Epsilon Omega
He stole that oh and you realize by the way, you realize it 730 people. This is the biggest friggin Greek class on the planet
It's the biggest ancient Greek class on the planet and for those of you because there's been so many orders for the Greek
Put off for a long time. You can't get these things for a long time. There are avenues. I
Want you to mingle with the community the satanic congregation and I want you to find out
How it's possible for you to for you to be able to learn this ancient Greek with without
Without the privilege of money
Yeah, I want you to find it. I know there are those of you who are looking
Keep looking
Right good fantastic. He stole reo. How do we say it? He stole reo
And funny thing is the joke's on all of us because you're never going to see this form because that those last two vowels are going to get
subsumed into one they're going to get that omega is going to suck that epsilon in
Greek vowels ancient Greek vowels are tuners
They're tuners and some of them have different powers
And that omega is the ultimate black hole. It will suck in whatever
Whatever whatever value you want to put in there
Lovely, here's the verb that it comes from right. Give me the next one
Now what happens you say well, this looks like a totally different word
Nope, it's not
What is this oystras?
Excuse me oystras
Where did he say estrus? Yes, I did
This is where we get estrus from
But I want you to notice
Kill the vowels and that terminal sigma
That terminal sigma is just dressing. It's part of the it's part of the
declension
Right, it's the part of the it's just telling you what case it is. This is syntax. We're dealing with baby
We're going to get into syntax and I'll tell you what it is
But it's just dressing for the what it's doing in the sentence. It's just telling you hey
I'm going to be the subjects in the sentence, right?
Um, so it's not part of the root. What happens when you kill the vowels you get sigma tau row
Wait a minute. You mean if I modify that front vowel that I can change the word
You're starting to get it. You're starting to get it. You see how they play
You see how they play this is music. This is freaking music
Oxford just did a great bit on
Reclaiming the owls
That musical instrument read instrument. Um, they did a fantastic job with
Notation of music. Oh god those nerds. They're classicists, right? This is the kind of stuff that
Advances the study that advances our understanding of history
Theology doesn't do that theology is not meant to do that
There is no inquiry in theology. You are not meant to ask a question
Right hints. Hail Satan
Fantastic. Let's go to the next one. Boom. Oy straw. Oh, look here's another one now. You can slightly tune it
slightly tune it with from the alpha to the epsilon
And what's going to happen? It's gonna slightly change its meaning
Yeah, now people in different regions. We use different vowels
Have a propensity of different vowels
Okay, fine. Um, you've got to find the register. You've got to find the place
Where that word is anchored
And that place is that root
Sigma tau row keep thinking sigma tau row another word
This is just you don't have to memorize any of this. I just want you to follow
Everybody should be following the greek when it's individual words. I'm going to give you a giant definition here now
Are you ready? I want you to see this
Oy straw. Oh the former and plural. Okay, fine. You don't have to give us all the look and they give us the beautiful ones in theochritus
Oh god, look at the oy streisa
What does it mean?
Properly of the gad flight the oysters
It's to sting
To sting look at definition number two roman numeral number two to go mad
And to rage it's used of io raging. That's where we get our concept of estrus
frenzy
Frenzy is this a sexual frenzy? Yes, it is
Yes, it is
Okay, hit me with the next one
Keep them in the zone. Watch this people
Um, this is the argument
Okay, so let me let me step back having just seen what we're doing
What we're working with word bases and we're following words through time
We're following definitions though, right? I've got some ancient definitions for those that i'm going to bring up
Um, look what happens here. What have I got here? I've got the
Verb now that the word christ is based in
This is the base of christ and christing. What does it do?
Rio now i told you it's to be stung
By that gadfly and everybody says oh the the biblical scholar dan mclellan steps up
And what is his refutation of that his refutation is oh look he picks the bottom
He picks the bottom definition, you know what he didn't read
Dan you didn't read anything between the top and the bottom and that is not an academic
You see that's not scientific because you picked the bottom one. What are you talking about?
Do you know how to read these definitions dan?
You don't
They are marked with the greek interior to the definition so that you can follow the word as it develops
Something victorian classical philologists gave us that biblical scholars do not learn
Are you ready put your greek where your mouth is
Put it up there
Blow it up. I want you to look look at number
um at the end of the first paragraph
To touch the surface of the body
It's this really a thing about
contact
It's about application. Look at definition roman numeral number one to rob anoint with
Scented anguents is oil
Oh
Okay, so you're getting the idea
application some kind of
Anguents or our anguents drugs. Yes in antiquity. Anguents or pharmaca
Okay, anything to affect your balance is going to affect the physiological balance according to the doctors
It's going to be a drug and look at the third line under roman numeral number one
To at the end of it to rub or in fact with poison
And they're talking about a peplos there
They're talking about a a piece of fabric, right? They're talking about a
address
But um some kind of clothing into which you have impregnated you have rio'd
Something do we have examples of all of these taking of poisons and putting them into clothing?
Yes, a very good example is heracles
Remember he's the one who puts on the shirt. It's full of the poison
What happens to him? It kills him. Remember what medea does she poisons that peplos
That that woman wears and hers bursts into flame. Isn't that cool?
And it's the the more water you throw on it the just it just
It just eats the water
Oh
It's like some kind of napalm
naughty people
Oh god, and um, so do we have the impregnation of the of the different
Strips and bandages and all that kind of stuff sure all of that is there and all of that is within the definition of christing
Right, right. No, so you can take your biblical heber scholar
And you can set him back and he can say something that's absurd, but you cannot tell the difference
That's what this class is for for you to be able to tell
The difference so that you don't get taken out now. I want I want to say something. I'm I'm gonna go ahead and say this
Put down your put down your stylus for a minute
If we're in Rome, we'd be riding with a stylus and a wax tablet
Put down your stylus
And if and this one christian guy he got murdered by all the students because he was doing nasty stuff, but anyway, um, I want to tell you
Today they stabbed him with their stylus. Isn't that would that be a terrible way to die?
um, any who um, you know things get out of hand
Um, what's going on somebody? There was a guest. I'm not even gonna say the dude's name because it's shameful
This is a PSA. This is a public service announcement
Okay, um, there are people out there
Who will intellectually lure you into a back alley and they will
They will do things to your brain that you know
Maybe you didn't realize at the time that it was going on you can go see a counselor, but they could talk it out
You know what I mean, but they did things to your brain. I saw this happen. Oh god. It was terrible
It was terrible. It was dark and it was on Joe Rogan just yesterday day before
Um, I think it was yesterday is when I saw it. Um, and somebody came on
started talking
smack
about cuneiform
Now
And it was apparent right away even to a classicist a classical philologist. We don't do cuneiform
But as a classical philologist, you have to have a certain exposure. So I took an entire semester
with norman yawfi who is uh, one of the world's premier
experts on cuneiform
And um, it's amazing to see an artist at work who actually does the job. It's amazing. It's humbling
I sat there the whole class and I was just humbled by the work
Then to see a guy go on Joe Rogan
And to give some kind of
Oh god it always
It always goes back to some kind of profiteering
Yeah, some kind of profiteering
It's a it's amazing and it makes me feel bad because to see people led down that pathway. Oh my god
Shame shame on people
Shame on people
for not executing
the skill
But claiming
claiming the honor
Shame on you people
on anarchy
On anarchy you ought to you ought to be embarrassed
You ought to be embarrassed
I'll tell him I'll tell him what anarchy are. I'll tell him
Tell him that the greek show him shame on you people
You know what they were they were people who it says had a great knowledge of the drugs, right?
We just did this and they taught the drugs on how to use it the medicine. Isn't that glorious?
That's glorious. They were they had it going on people
How is it they had so much going on? I don't know give me the next one
Here I want to I want to just give you a variation
Um of all the different forms of now you can take your oistress now remember
Um, I said oistramania
Right the mania the madness that comes from the gad flies sting
Right from the sting
Um here a whole bunch of different words. I just want you to see them and they're all based
In the oistress. This is not a a tiny concept in antiquity. This thing is all over the place
before during the new testament and after
flooding the culture
So for dan mclellan not to know this it's only because dan mclellan does not read ancient greek
Give me the next one
The that's always the weakness every biblical scholar, you know take them back to the source
You can take what i'm giving you everybody here tonight. You can take this skill
And you can you can do things to the preachers and the teachers
That will um, they'll end up holding their hands up like uh
All right. Oh god, it's gorgeous. Look at some of these you can be mad and passionate
Look, oh i'm mad driven by the gadfly mad passion sting the madness. Oh it's sting. Oh it hurts
Give me the next one
Bring it
I just want you to see his chorus. Look at the bottom very bottom line. This is a genuine chorus
Right, it's about bachas's mother
and
Why am I bringing in bachas because you can't have
Oystress without bachas. You cannot have a christ without bachas. Look at the last line
Dionusoi
Oystre theis
Dionusoi
Stung to madness
By Dionysus
Next one. I wanted you to see it. I wanted you to see it. I've got it written out
Maybe you don't need to see it so much anymore, but I wanted you to see it. Go ahead
There it is. Remember this phrase people. Look at this phrase
Omicron iota sigma tau rho eta theta epsilon iota sigma oystre theis
Yeah
Stung and there's Dionusoi. There's Dionysus
Okay, um, it's built into the culture so that when I say it and I'm giving you that honest information a guy like Dan
Dan McClellan from a back alley. He can come in
And he can say hey
I'm gonna get touchy feely
I'm gonna put my hands into your brain
And I'm gonna touch and feel some theology on you
Yeah, it is I agree
It's dishonest at its at its best. It's dishonest and it's worse
It's
Something that decide would do or write about at least
Mm. It's despicable. How does this stuff get by? I don't know. Where are the watchers? I hope they're not watching
Give me the next one
Oystresis mad passion. I just want you to see the word next this
Frenon
Frenon and people are gonna say oh my god corpus hermeticum
Right when people get all excited and they talk and be able to talk to me about the hermetic corpus
You know, they want I want to talk about it, right? If you haven't read that thing in greek
You you haven't gone there. Please people. Please understand. This is our chance at a renaissance mad passion
Look at the frenon. That's a medical one the frenon
Yeah, okay, you're engaging your friend
Give me the next one
Boom
Boom, look at this one. This is what look at oystrema to smart at the gadfly sting
Right that kentron that that next word there that that's the sting. That's what paul says
That's his thorn
It the sting
That he's giving him a notice that he says it's the sting in my flesh
in my flash
You can't stand it. Can you come here timothy?
Come here timothy
Lydia give me some boys says paul
Nasty paul the apostle nasty bad guy hit the next one boom
What is this oyster boleo? Oh, look you can strike something with the sting. What is it used of of the darts?
of love
Oyster boleo now think about this. How difficult would it be in english?
To come up with one word
That was a striking stinging dart fired from the god of love
You're not gonna you're not gonna get that you're not gonna get that in english
No, you're not anglo-saxons. Don't think like that
Yeah
Right marching through the bogs, baby
Go back to your bogs
Hey, by the way, um
I wanted to just throw out there really quick. There is a really great
project that's being done
By a guy who goes by the name alt boy
A u l d b o y
And he went to see the purple that they just found in england, right and everybody's
Right, here's purple. There's more coming right. There's more prophecy coming. Um, and
He's making excellent videos that are historically grounded and
The reason I mentioned this at almond u is because he has gone through the intensive greek course
Yes
Yeah, now he's at the intermediate level and he's reading
Yeah, he's reading and he will tell you oh god greek. It's so mammoth. It's so huge
Right the more you the more you talk to somebody who said more and more greek the more respect they have for the language
It is it is endless like this. We're talking about we're dealing with one route tonight. Can you believe that?
Oh god hit us with the next one chewie
Hit us with the next one. Oystradenetic
Driven round and round by the gadfly. Do you feel do you feel people like sometimes you got oyster your oyster genetic?
When I think about that word
How we're gonna do that in english?
my brain is
It's out of the influence. You see it does it all matters as you're being
Grown as a child it all matters. What language you're speaking it matters
Yeah, look what they got to with mother greek. Look what they got to all of your science
God
Driven round and round by the gadfly. Give me the next one. I want to keep hitting this. Look
Now people do you see what's happening?
Now we're taking multiple routes and we're putting them together here
You see the sigmatal row route because you're killing
You're killing all the vowels and then you see the fero root
And what is that? That's the bearing route the verb to bear or to carry is fero
So what is it when you carry the oysters? You are maddening
You know what lover?
You carry the oysters. Who is it? Does it say here at the bottom? Look at this name right under here people
People are just learning greek sound this out. This is p alpha fi yoda eta
pa
Pafie notice the accents on the yoda pa fie
Now who is pa fie?
That's pa fie and aphrodite
Wait a minute. The maddening goddess is
Aphrodite
What?
What do you think we've been doing here? It's bokeh. Can we're I'm leading you to aphrodite?
That is exactly what the bokeh cult does. They even had an expression for it ace aphrodite
Straight up to aphrodite
Love it
Oh, you see it's uranian. You didn't realize all of this coat was uranian. Did you?
Did you they had a contest on thera? Who was more beautiful?
Medea or
um, killie's mother
And those idiots said it was killie's mother and that's how we know that all cretins are liars
Right because everybody knew that was not the answer
Yeah, yeah, you had to be there right and then thera blew up
I don't know what happened
Let's go to the next one
ice
What is this oyster guinettor?
What is that? It is a creator
Of frenzy and who is this remember all of this is coming from that bite of the christ
That gadfly
We are in that situation of christing. We have that sting
We have that sting the doctors say you put it right in your eyes
And who is bringing it? It's eros, baby. It's eros. Of course it is. Who's the god of the mysteries?
right eros
You didn't realize that ero
Oh
Remember he's got wings
Have you ever seen the devil fly?
Have you ever seen the devil fly?
He flies on golden wings
Oh
Isn't that amazing you didn't realize that eros and
Oh, man, you see now if we had that sect that epiphanious
Calls the satanists and if you don't believe me go read epiphanious
If we had that sect of satanists around you'd see
The exact overlap between eros
and lucifer
Who is that most handsome?
You know who that is. It's the guy who scrapes his armpits and gives it to the eowa
To the eve zoe life, baby
Scrapes his armpits. Yeah, I don't know. It's got something
It's got something in it. He draws they called it. Love it. Let's go to the next one
Quickly here oistramania. Here finally here it is. Dan McClellan. That's for you. Look it up figure it out go
Go to the next one oistramania. Now watch this people. I'm gonna I'm I'm just by using the words
Right. I'm the bases what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna explain to you. I'm gonna open up a passage of the bible
That has never been opened before
Dan McClellan can look at this
and
Be humbled
Be humbled watch this people. This is the power of classical philology, baby
Oistramania, what is the plan route the p lambda new route?
um
That is the wandering route
We get planetase
We get wandering planets. You know what the planets are. They're wanderers. They didn't call them planets
You and I call them planets when you see
Venus you thank to yourself
Planet you don't thank wanderer and I need you to go deep now go back to the original wandering oistras
Wandering mania causing the wanderings of
Madness
Are you ready?
Are you ready to see how it's in the bible hit it hit it? I know we're gonna get to the book and just tag it
Agria
What's happening? What is this saying?
It says there are some dudes
Right, and this is the problem jude's been talking about some dudes that are infiltrating
They're christians who are practicing in a way that he doesn't like and he calls them. Look at that second line
planetai
Planetai now
You don't see the mental side of this unless you read ancient greek texts
And you know there is an association between the madness or ecstasy of prophecy
and the wandering of the mind
These are stars
Osteris look at that word osteris take take off to kill the vowels
Kill the alpha kill the epsilon kill the second epsilon and it's sigma. Well, what do you get?
Sigma tau row
On a monkey
What what did you think? Yeah, they're they're friggin aliens
Seriously, what what have we done with the science for the last 200 friggin years?
Oh
People it's like walking into the museum and taking a dump on the on the history section. What are you doing, dude?
scientific inquiry
scientific inquiry shame on
Shame on you sellers you sellouts. Good. Go go in the back alleys. That's what you're all about
Disgusting go to the next one. We get an eye on there, but I want to continue on
Um, what are the seventh from adam this guy named enic? Well, I'm translating what this is what jude says
What are the seventh from adam say now? I want you to notice. He's quoting
Right. He's quoting right
Hmm. Okay. I want you to realize
dealing with sources
You're going to be reading greek and you're going to be reading quotes of other people
When epiphanious talks about jesus christ who was arrested in public park with a naked boy screaming
I'm not a trafficker when he talks about him
Um performing a sexual act on mary
and a mountain as a part of salvation as a part of
Drink my hyma baby and eat my flesh
You know as a part of that
It's coming from sources
Right, you can track all this stuff. This is not guesswork. It is crime scene investigation
And we have evidence give me the next one
boom
I'm going to get to the
Lesson just give me a second right and what's happening?
What's happening? Oh my god these people these people who are inserting themselves. It says they're inserting themselves
Right and they're following ancient custom
Right because they're written about a while ago. It says they're going to be a sebes
What is that? That's not having saba
Not having that proper reverence for the gods
Right and what did they do? They took the the harita
They took the harita to you that grace of god and they transformed it into what?
Aselgea give me the next slide. What is what is the aselgea?
This is going on people. What is it? What do you do when you're a selgic? Licentious or wanton violence?
Licentiousness
Yeah, okay
You can do what you want. I got a whole
Okay, it's going to be six to us and two of them
You can do whatever you want to the two of them
Okay, we will help and we will assist and we will
facilitate
Yeah, and what happens in vegas stays in vegas
Right, okay. All right. Hit me with the next one
Hit me with the next one oyster planks because I suddenly am stung by the gadfly and driven wild and I am a
Bakant christ
I am a bakant christ
The bit of anything take it down for a minute
Of anything that I've told you
This will make the biggest splash
Because um, this will drive a wedge
Into between the false history that's been built up for you full of this christian theology
Judeo christian monist theology
This will destroy it
The name the word christ's not a name. It's a title the word christ
Is a drug term
Jesus was a drug guy. We just looked at putting drugs
Onto cloth. Do you remember the woman who had the issue of blood?
What did she do all she had to do was touch him
All she had to do is touch him. You know why because that christ was christed and he was walking around high
And full of drugs they put them on their clothing
Now some of you say how stupid is that well some of the sophisticated ones you could light that stuff on fire
Make a little make a little you know
Impression on people some of that stuff would be immediately toxic
Oh
Fantastic, you know what I do if I'm a priestess and I'm eight years old
I'm getting up every morning. I'm training to be the one of the medusae
You know what I do I cut I make lateral cuts in my arms
And then I take a linen bandage and I impregnate it with drugs
That I then put over and those drugs are the ones that we're all taking from the snakes because that's what they're teaching us to do
Now is to handle those snakes because if you're a good christian and you follow Jesus's precise words
You will take up snakes and you'll start drinking death drugs and they won't hurt you
Do you see
It's the real jesus
It's the real jesus hit the next one and you can get there through the words
Oysterades, that's that's fine for aging or frantic. Give me the next one. No problem. It's we're hitting it
Here's the word for star
Aster and I wanted you to see it same route again people
Same route fantastic. Give me the next one
Fantastic boom
Boom, here's jude. Who do who do I not want you to be? I don't want you to be like these people
Why because from they've been practicing this mystery for a long time and it always ends up in Sodom and Gomorrah
You know, they're using the same methods
Right and what are they doing? They're going after that heterosarks, right that
That other flesh the other meat
Yeah, and what are they doing? They're providing an example
They're providing an example of that ionic fire
Right that ionic fire. They're gonna be subject to decay
Because they are harnessing the ionic fire now. This is the part I told you and there's no christian who knows what this means
None
None. Well, I don't know maybe there is maybe there is somewhere who got his greek in gear or hers
And really pushed I would say hers, but you know realistically
Bible studies doesn't really encourage. I mean they do have you know, it's I don't know. I don't know
Yeah, the first thing I noticed about classics was it was majority women in my department
Yeah, and I thought how how nice look at this the women are encouraged
to study this
Right because it doesn't say women submit. It doesn't say that
It's got all sorts of stuff. Look at it. Look at this thing. I found I've got this word. I found for you guys tonight
It's gorgeous. I hadn't seen it before
Um, keep going keep going. We'll run up to it. We're running up to it. Um, this is the word just export now
I've seen this one a lot to commit fornication people. What are the people doing? I want you to notice dan
I want dan mclown here right now dan get over here. Get over here dan
That's because you claimed it and didn't grade it
Now let's see at porno Dan. It means to commit fornication
But it's also idolatry Dan. Look and they're pulling your septuagent there
They're pulling your septuagent Dan. There's a source
Oh my god
Oh my god, you didn't realize the mystery was sexual. Did you?
The very same word the what does fornication mean? That's a what a victorian says to mean sex
Just sex
Sex baby. Just sex for sex sake
boom
temple of aphrodite baby
Right
Oh god
God sex is bad right yahoo hates sex. Jesus hates sex. Who does Jesus end up with?
He ends up with those that he can dominate. He ends up with little kids in a public park
Yeah
What's going on? What's the psychology? Who knows? It's not up to me. I don't care anyway, right?
I do care ultimately, but it's not up to me to decide what was going on and jesus christ said when he was
Rested in a public park with a naked kid. Look at the next verse here from jude
Oh god, what are they doing in the end? Just look at the last word. What do these people end up doing?
They end up blaspheming
They end up blaspheming and look at this first word on the second line
Everybody spell that out mew yoda alpha yoda new omicron oops long sigma yoda new
me I knew sin
Accent over the yoda
Now the yoda in the alpha or a diphthong. We're about to look at those me. I knew see
You like that? What does it mean to me? I know it means to stain
It means to stain yourself. Do you know what?
Now hang on before you start thinking like a
Victorian or start thinking like a somebody who's you know telling some kind of
Theological line
It literally means to stain
And so in the greek
Word itself is that concept whether whether or not you put a religious
You know twist on it or not
The idea of staining is there and who stains
Not only these people who are practicing this cult, but you know this this form of christianity, but um also
those who were
Um
Giving us the knowledge you remember the sons of god that came into the daughters of men and enic
Yes, uh on son. Uh, no monday. Do you remember those? Um, this is who he's talking about
Right, they stained themselves
Yeah, I stained themselves
And what do they end up entering into they end up entering into blasphemy
blasphemy
Okay, when jesus christ was arrested
Was that a kid?
There was an element of blasphemy thrown into his trial
Yeah, if you can call it a trial
Yeah, because you know lace days are lace days people keep asking me about lace days. Remember don't forget
Julius Caesar was taken captive. He was uh kidnapped by lace days by lace die. Excuse me the plural
and what did he do as soon as he got away he came back and
Crucified them
why
Because you crucify
traffickers
you crucify them
You crucify them when I'm saying traffickers. I'm talking about people who exchange children. I'm not talking about the slave trade
the legitimate
Mediterranean slave trade is not
Trafficking I'm talking about people who show up and abduct your young kids to sell them
as sexual objects
That is a lace days. That is what jesus is defending himself as not being when he is arrested with that kid
Everybody knows
lace die get crucified
They deserve to die that way
They deserve it. You mean people were saying jesus deserved now. You understand what the crowd was doing
You understand it was there for a ride
Right. Oh god. I'm sorry. Let's keep going. Let's keep going
We all know this ride. No, we don't um, here's the word I found for you perfect timing. Look at this
This is for everybody who just wants something delicious. Are you ready?
In up any astria
In up any astria. What is that?
she who dreams
And it's the title of a book. Look the person who did this
The person who did this made up this word to talk about to be
You know
What her what her story was
Who's this about it's about she who dreams
I love that
I love that. Look, we've got the english a little phrase she who dreams
You don't need that and great. You make up one concept
One concept. Oh god the power is amazing. Give me give me the next one
Give me the next one finally. I don't want to um for the text wise
I don't I don't want to belabor anything. We've got to jump
But I just want you to notice that second and last line. We got dimonia
We got dimonia if you start at verse 16. I'm just gonna I'm gonna translate this for you
The one who this is jesus right at the end of mark
The one who believes and is baptized will be saved
The one who doesn't believe will be judged
and um
The for those who believe there will be signs that they do
In my name, they will cast out demons
They'll speak in new languages
And what else do they do they'll
Take up serpents and when I say take up, I just mean lift
I mean to take up as a practice to take up as a way of life. They'll take up serpentry
And they'll drink when whenever it says whenever whenever they drink the death inducers
It won't hurt them
That is a true christian from the mouth of jesus the christ himself
Dan mclellan
You do not recognize the christ as a drug term because you don't read greek
Dan mclellan. You don't recognize the christ
As the one who drinks the thana semen who takes the christing and who is resurrected because you have never done that then
You are uninitiated not only are you uninitiated in the mystery
You are uninitiated in ancient greek
Shame on you for taking glory. That's not yours
Go to the next one
Boom, okay, we're gonna jump here's the lifting up serpents. Yeah, we got it. We got it. We got it already go to the next one
Here we go, pay
Um, oh, you know what? I'm gonna go ahead. I'm gonna jump right to the end jump
Jump right to our
Right to this. Let's see
Oh, I had so much prepared for you people, but I don't want to take up an inordinate amount of time
um, let us go
For people who are asking me about the book again, please ask around
I know if your conditions don't allow you. I know there's ways to get it
Right
The cheapest way is possible. Yes, fantastic. I don't want anybody to be held back because they cannot get a book
Right and thank you for crashing the thank you for crashing the people at the
publisher to
Go give me give me that one. Okay. Look, there are a couple of very important little
paragraphs
Little charts that I need you to know as you are reading unit one
And I tell people get your alphabet down. That's what you need if you've gotten your alphabet down
And if you're able to begin looking at great words
Um and pronouncing them you're in a good spot
But what I want you to do is I want you to read unit one
And I want you to try to do those first five exercises in unit one
I'm gonna walk you through those now if you've done them
Great if you're going to do them great, but I want you to notice
I'm going to give you only the stuff that you need
This is the stuff that it's going to get us through this specialized training. Are you ready?
Look at these diphthongs on the left. What is a diphthong diphthong is when you take two vowels
And you put them together. What vowels are we talking about? Alpha epsilon
Ada iota
Omicron
Upsilon omega
I'll say that one more time alpha epsilon Ada iota omicron
Upsilon omega
Seven vowels those are the seven spheres
of the cosmos
Wait, what?
Those are the seven spheres
Of the cosmos what is cosmos it is the organization
of the universe
It's the organization
Are you ready the organization has those seven vowels alpha
Epsilon Ada iota omicron
Upsilon omega
Okay, when you combine those together like the first one that we have is alpha iota
Alpha iota and when you take two vowels and they combine into one they make one noise
right
You go from alpha iota is ah
II
Combine them together and you get I
I
Makes a different sound
Absalon iota you have a in the epsilon e in the iota when you combine them together a
Okay, and that's what I want. I want you to follow this pronunciation for oi
Look at oops. Okay. Wait a minute. Look at Upsilon iota
And you're going to think that's oo and e right so we
We something like that
Notice that you get a w sound that starts coming out. Why because there is a diagram of hiding in that Upsilon
You mean the constant is in there being close with that vowel. Yeah, I think it happens
Right. Oh love it
We
We hear the w Upsilon iota is we
We
Weos is the word for son Upsilon iota on the crown segment
Weos good. You're gonna get vocabulary. Don't worry. So people focus on this chart get all of your diphthongs down
So you can pronounce words you can pronounce words like the words they give you in the example
Look, you've got the the first word there. I there
I there see the diphthong i on the front of it. Good practice that
Get it down. Go to the next one. Go to the next one. Hmm
Word roots. I tell you give me a blow up
Look at this chart at the bottom this box summary of greek cases
I want you to look at these five cases
What are cases?
Cases are a part of noun
adjectives
Participals have cases
Yeah, now what do you do with a case?
Just think about a noun for a minute and
This is where everybody learns us. So don't be embarrassed. Um a verb is your action
It's the word that's the doing the jumping the running the being being is doing to
Yeah
What is a noun? It's you know, we call it the person place your thing
What I want you to know is the nouns are the things that can be doing or can have things done to them
They are the dressing for the verb
Oh, okay. Okay. I get it. Watch this there each of them has cases
What does that mean? It means the end of the word will change changing its case
And what cases do we have do you need to think through this? No
Stop trying to if you get confused whenever you get confused in ancient greek stop thinking
I tell my students this all the time nobody ever trusts me until they get to a point where they understand what it means
Stop
thinking
What do you need to know
You need to know these five cases every now is going to have
five cases
The first case is called the nominative. Yeah, that's all I need you to say spit that out. How many cases?
five
Okay, thank you very much. What's the first one?
nominative
What is the first case nominative nominative nominative?
What is the second genitive third dative fourth accusative?
What is that fifth type of case that they've evocative?
Evocative now
What we're going to do is we're going to use those first four cases all the time and every once in a while
We're going to use that fifth case
And when we do
I'll make it obvious for you because all we're going to memorize are those first four
I don't want you memorizing vocabularies. I want you memorizing
nominative genitive dative accusative and always in that order
Nominative now, I'm going to tell you this once what each of those is the nominative case is the subject
That's all I want. I don't want you to think about it
I want you to be able to say when I yell at you in your face
What is the nominative case and you will say it is the subject
What is the genitive case? It is the case of
Possession what is the dative case?
It's the indirect object
I don't even know what an indirect object is you say I don't care
I need you to know that the dative case is an indirect object. Just stop there. What's the accusative?
A direct object
Isn't that nice nominative subject genitive possession dative
Indirect object accusative direct object. That's all I need you to do
The vocative is the case of address
And it's barely used
Okay, so we're not gonna
We're going to worry about the top four next one given the next one. What else do I need you to focus on in chapter one?
These are first declension nouns now. What does that mean? What is the declension? Think of a declension as a family
or a group
Of nouns we're going to have three
In greek we're going to have three
This is the first
And most of these are feminine
They are feminine. What you mean nouns can have gender. Yes
Yes, what are the genders that we have in greek? We have masculine feminine neuter
masculine feminine neuter masculine feminine and neuter
That's all I want you to know
Fm
Are you ready? Here's some feminine ones for you. And what happens? What are these?
What is going on in this chart? It's a little dash
With a letter or a couple of letters after it and that little dash is telling you you can take this
And put it on the end of the base of a noun
In order to make it that case
For example, the word for soul is psuche
psuche
You hear the a on the end of it. That's the nominative
psuche, it's the subject the soul
lives
Right, the soul's the subject the soul eats worms
The soul is the subject. It's got to end in that ate it to tell the person who's reading it. Oh, this is the subject, bro
Okay, look at the one underneath that genitive ace
What happens when you add ace and make psuche ace? It means of the soul
It's possessive of the soul. The purpose of the soul is blah, blah, blah
The purpose of the soul then it's got to be
Psuche it's got to end with that a to sigma. What about the dative?
It's an eta with a little tiny eota every seed a little tiny eota
Subscript and what's an eota subscript an eota subscript is a tiny miniaturized eota that you place underneath
the vowel
And that's a dative I told you that's the indirect object dative indirect object
How do we translate that in greek to for or with
You're going to start with those to for or with to the soul
psuche
For the soul psuche
With the soul psuche. How did you do that? I with my soul psuche?
All I have to say is psuche with that ending and the person knows. Oh
This is an indirect object
Hmm. This is this is something that it's it can be an instrument
Wow
Fantastic, how'd you do it? I did it with my soul
And then finally the accusative look at the accusative ane
Look at the accusative ane. You see the eta new after the accusative when you attach that
To the word psuche and become psuchean
What does that mean? It means that's being acted on by the verb
I eat the spaghetti
I got to put spaghetti in the accusative case because it is being accused. It's being acted upon
By the verb I kick the ball the ball was in the accusative case
I love my soul
Oh, that sounds so didn't sound creepy. That sounds like something something
What do you call those people chewy walk around saying you got to love yourself?
I don't know hippies. I don't know go the next one
Um, look at this people. Um, now here's the second to oh wait. Go back. Go back in all fairness. I'm sorry
I just did the singular. I want you to notice it says underneath it. It says nominative plural
Right, so then you're gonna have to add the alpha eota if you want to say souls as the subject souls do something
You got to add alpha eota psuchei
So I forgot to tell you with nouns. We've got a singular form and a plural form dog singular dogs
Plural look what we do in English. We add an s
English is a lightly
inflected language
Our um our nouns are going to be lightly declined, right? We've got a oh look what we got
We've got dogs. We add an s and all of a sudden it's plural
All right. Well, the greek has its own plural endings, right? You'll see them there. Okay. I want you to
Um, I want you to be satisfied with that go to the next one go to the next one
What do you need to know from this? This is the take home replay this back to yourself
Here are second declension nouns and look at their endings
They're different from the first declension and most of these are masculine or neuter
Masculine or neuter
Um typical word second declension word that you get in your vocabulary is
Anthropos the word for human we get anthropology from it, right human a human
In the nominative case is an anthropos
But when we switch to the genitive case and we want to say of the human
We say anthropo and our accent changes position
Anthropo now you don't have to worry about don't worry about accents right now
I know people fret over accents and i'm going to tell you exactly what they told me at california berkeley when I took the intensive course
And for those of you who want to say oh, that's political. That's just something political
You morons. I didn't I didn't have more than five seconds
To myself we went to school for eight hours a day came home and did four to six hours of work
For the next day to prep for the next day
ho
There's no politics
I have berkeley is
Friggin awesome their classics was friggin awesome
Um watch this people look at the endings here. They're gonna change and you're gonna be able to look at those endings say
Oh, okay. This is how they're this is how they
Relay a case to me nominative genitive date of acute nominative genitive date of accusive hit me with the next one
I just want you to see the words written out
We've only got one two more of these. I want you to see the words written out. Look at this
Oh, they give you logos
Logos right right up front logos
Logos logo logo a log on
now
Um, these are just examples right of now the next one is antropos. There it is
Anthropo, right? You can see how it changes. They're just gonna walk you through how these words are gonna change
Now, what do you need to do?
You need to do exactly what I needed to do
You need to make mental slots for all of these
paradigms
All of these ladders of endings that we go through
You should memorize them
What are the feminine endings?
a ace a aim
I own ice us that was both singular and plural. I just gave you and I can do that in my sleep
A ace a aim. I own ice us
You have to get to that point where you can just it becomes muscle memory for you
So these charts that I'm showing you I want you to memorize
Those endings. I want you to memorize the feminine of the first the masculine and the neuter of the second
Okay, masculine and neuter of the second. Give me the next chart. Give me the next chart
Hmm
Finally, what else does unit one give us it gives us the definite article
This thing at the top in this box and you're going to notice. Oh look, it's got nominative
It's it's also got cases nominative genitive dative accusative singular and then underneath that nominative genitive dative accusative plural
Right dog is subject dog is
Possession dog is indirect object dog as direct object in the singular and then same thing in the plural
Now look at the feminine
It's going to give you feminine forms and look at the
Neuter it's going to give you neuter forms and you're going to notice look at the feminine for example
It's an eta you say wait a minute. That's what that just looks just like the the ending on the first
Declension nouns. Yes, it does
Right. Look at the genitive ace is the ending. Well, it looks like just like the mouth. So you really aren't learning new
forms here
You have to memorize
This definite article
I want you to do it in this way
I want you to take the masculine column and I want you to go right down
I want you to take the feminine column and go right down neuter and go right down masculine, right hall to toy ton
Hoy ton toys toos
I want you to be able to do that. You've got to be able to exercise
Some of you will hate this and you'll say this is the worst part of greek
And there are a whole bunch of english boys and girls who agree with you
From a hundred years ago because what would those english do in their classes all day?
They would recite these declensions
They would recite the endings of verbs and you think what a waste of time
No, no, no, what you're doing is you're programming yourself to be able to function within this heavily
inflected language when I say inflected. I mean the endings of words are going to change
That change will tell you what the word is doing you
Most of my audience
Okay, if i'm talking to modern greeks or something never mind
But most of you those of you who speak english as your primary language
You're used to word order, right? Those english accents were like, oh god
How do we how do we make life easy?
I know we'll put everything in order and the first thing I say is got to be the subject
Then you've got to say the verb then you've got to say the direct object
Right, we'll do it by word order
That's how we'll tell I ate the spaghetti. I can't say the spaghetti ate. I
Because then i'm thinking about spaghetti eating someone because my stupid english brain is stuck in word order
And it's going to affect everything you do from now on
Greek does not use word order
think about that for a minute
ancient greek
passage can spit at you 50 words
And you don't get the main verb until the end of the thing. You don't really know what's going on to the very end
You're just juggling a stuff in your brain
Do you see what I mean in order to allow you?
To be able to juggle this we've got to get the muscle memory
We've got to get the muscle memory down. I need you to memorize the definite article
Okay, what i'm going to do you take it down
Take it down. Show you what i'm going to do for next week. Look there 880
This is officially the largest ever ancient greek class
largest ever
Right, we should be proud of this and we should nurture this and get ourselves to the right place now listen to me
If you need a pep talk
If you're not doing this every day if you're not taking this book that you've got if you're not looking at unit one for
30 minutes a day
Very bare minimum
30 and you can do this on the toilet
You do it in your car when you're not driving
You can do it, you know at a restaurant when you're waiting for your beloved to show up
Um, you can do it wherever you've got a few extra minutes drinking a little bit
Read the vocabulary list and try to pronounce the vocabulary list from unit one
Over tea with your spouse drive him crazy
And then look at you like what this stuff's crazy
Right, but you've got to you've got to put in a certain amount of work. There's a i'm going to give you this as a final
Kind of you know inspiration tonight
there is
a place
That I need to take you I need to take you to the gym
And if you stop working out
You're not going to make it
You'll fall by the wayside the very um one of the very earliest instructions that I remember from john scarborough my advisor
Um was that if you stop
it leaks
You can take a professor who's had 50 years
Of translation and if that professor stops for a couple of weeks
He's me or she is going to leak
They're going to leak
Because it is not a spoken language. It's specifically a language that we just translate
Unless you are actively working it you are losing what you have built up
You have to make constant progress and even if that is just 30 minutes a day
30 minutes a day imagine that
If I told you I have a magic pill
Maybe this would be our commercial because we don't have commercials because we're not here for the friggin money
But if I had a pill for you and I said if you take this every day
It will grow your brain
Your brain your head will get bigger people look at you and be like damn what's happening to your head, bro
And it'll be big because it's growing
If I had that pill for you I do
It's Greek and your brain doesn't need to get physically bigger
It needs to make more connections
The greeks can allow you to do that
Thank you to the 800 some people
Who are consistently
Almost 900
Thank you to the 900 people who are making this
Officially the biggest class somebody write to Guinness
Okay, I taught at university. I taught at a giant university
University of wisconsin
I'm the only graduate student to ever teach medical terms by myself
When a professor had a she had a maternity
Leave right so I took over the class
And there were hundreds of people in the class. I think we had like 270
Something like that. I've been in myth classes where there are 10 excuse me where there are five
Teaching assistants each of us with 120 students
Right. I've been in classes of a thousand people and I can tell you something. This is the only
Ancient greek course with this many people
Look what we did
I want to I want to revel in this and I want to say, hey, um, harvard
Watch what happens. Watch what happens when you take out the greed and when
People just want to be able to use the instrument when you free people. This is what happens
Thank you for coming tonight
And we will be on friday night for a traditional
Lady Babylon and I look forward to bringing you
Yet one more
peeling back
Of that
Unreality to show you the beauty of what is thank you for coming tonight
Hail Satan
Satan in the chorus try some you want more knock knock i'm at the door
Gigi penny wise put the twinkle in your eyes Jesus on the cross from harm and little ones
Don't mess with the kids. Madea. She will come which queen of the dragons madea mama mia
Dreams come through my deer. She'll knock you on the rear put something in your beer
High purple they eat fetus bleed out spingo deeper
Jeepers to the creepers smoking sensamia
Ancient greek we read up
venom from the teeth of
Bloody uzi seaper
Grim to the reaper
Lavender madea
Indica honeya
Hit you on the beeper
Michael's poisonous
Hit you with the kiss
Drinking venom drip
Fane gripping her lip
Michael's poisonous
Hit you with the kiss
Drinking venom drip
Fane gripping her lip
Michael's poisonous
Hit you with the kiss
Drinking venom drip
Fane gripping her lip
Michael's poisonous
Hit you with the kiss
Drinking venom drip
Fane gripping her lip
