What's in your stomach?
Purple something the little bitch that you give to the goddess Athena follows and do you see a surprise?
She makes men fulfill their desires to be worth a woman
Christian with aphrodisiac
Once you are out producing the theory yeah, watch out your brain will open up
Athena with a purple cup
You begin the place
Welcome back to Lady Babylon this is I'm in you tonight and
What I am going to give you from the beginning. I
Must warn you this is our highest warning level. I
must warn you
This is difficult and I know we've been lots of places look
We got with Jesus on the mountain and m-mary was there and he was doing the self
Pleasuring and then offering it to her to eat or they were both gonna die. I
Thought that was the lowest, you know and
The naked kid that was with Jesus when he was arrested. I thought those
Were the lowest no
No, you haven't been to the mystery and tonight. I'm going to show you
I'm going to show you the mystery and I'm gonna use four
Dead people to do it
I'm gonna use mark. I'm gonna use Mike
That's cellist
I'm gonna use a
nobody an
unidentified
Joe
from the 10th century to the 13th somewhere in there
I'm gonna use that dude. Is there's nothing that says look there's nothing it says in the handbook
For those of you who've been reading the handbook you can tell me
There's nothing that says that I can't use a dead person
Who's got no name?
Right who's got no name. I'm gonna use him tonight and you're gonna see
Something something incredible. It's absolutely incredible. I'm gonna translate some Greek
I'm gonna translate a little bit of Latin and then I'm gonna read to you some English
But we're gonna start off with the big punch. Are you ready for this? I know I know
It's like that little surprise you get when you're like, oh, I usually saves that for the end of the day
You know what I mean? Here it is out on the table. I'm giving it right to you. Are you ready?
Here's the future
Here's the future pull it up pull it up
Chewie first one hit it
My son my child do you imagine that they will ever again restore literature or
Anything excellent the time is at hand. I
Told you when men will live worse than wild beasts for now
Antichrist is at hand
even at the doors and
Evil precursors in the shape of
Monstrous doctrines and unlawful practices no better than the orgies of Bacchus
must usher in this advent and
Whatever things have been represented by the Greeks in their tragedies as
Saturn and
Estes and
Tantalus devouring their offspring
Oedipus debauching his mother and Kenny Russ
debauching his daughters all these fearful
Enormities will break in upon our state
That is what I'm bringing you tonight. You see in order for the Antichrist
What's what happens in order for the Antichrist to?
Be found be discovered
What must be brought back are the rights of the mystery
Yeah
Fantastic, do you see what happens by the power?
By the power vested in that satanic contract
Yeah, I pronounce you
Apocalypse are you ready for this? Are you ready for this? Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Are you ready?
Give me the first one. I just want you to look at the name. I just want you to look at the name here
Here here. Do you know what's going to happen? By the way, this isn't a freebie. This is a freebie from the Oracle
It's a freebie from the Oracle for everybody out there
Who is that?
honest
Who's searching for that apocalypse?
Everybody who's ready to initiate it. This is for you
You got this is straight straight from hell
Okay, here we go. You've got no defense in your wealth
your grade
Has caused you
To kick over the altar of justice
To make her gone
Invisible no longer present. You've done it. And do you know what's going to happen? Madness
the tyrant
Has madness because of your
Desire for wealth your creed your creed
Oh, isn't that gorgeous?
Look it up. Let's go to the next one. Watch this paper. What happens? We're talking about
Medea and
What what are we saying about Medea?
What are we saying about Medea? We're saying she performs
sacrifices and what kind of sacrifices does she perform she performs sacrifices on
Children her own
Do you remember the child sacrifices?
That's where we're going. Give me the next one. What am I bringing you? Give me give me. Yeah, give me that one
What am I bringing you? I'm bringing you
The woman who eats her own children
Who is and by the way, this is nameless dude or you know, he's supposed to be some cleric
But you know, that's who knows if that's accurate or not. It's somebody
Right and what is this Byzantine dude talking about? He's talking about the woman who eats her own children
What does it take
What does it take to perform the mystery? I'm gonna translate now. Oh
Earth
Who is earth? She's our first Oracle. Who is the first Oracle?
The medwa is the first Oracle. She gave her oracles from an island that exploded
She gave her oracles this is a woman in history
who gave her oracles as
Oracular prime
Talking about generations of what would happen in generations. Do you know what she was doing? She was weaving history and
She gave her oracles on the island of Thera, which
Everybody knows there was in the late Bronze Age. There was an explosion and the thing blew it
just blew its top and
probably contributed to
much of the
garbage
Dark Ages
They're followed. Isn't that interesting?
Volcano, oh, it's a beautiful place today, by the way, I highly recommend that you go there and
you visit these
perfectly preserved
Settlement cities
Yeah, it's gorgeous. Anyway, let's keep going. Let's keep going
How do we find ourselves on a picnic? We were just
Praying to earth
She who gapes who both gapes
And that is to open up to speak and what does she speak about what is hidden within her?
What is hidden within earth the drama the drama?
Who is God God is she who writes the play are you ready? I'm gonna show you give it give it
They love it. You know what I mean? What is that first word? She is what she is a spark to the yeah
That's a priestess
It also is somebody her poop who performs sacrifices. Did you forget where we were?
Right, we're in the Kersenese, right?
We're
We're with the temple of Diana somewhere right a bunch of
Amazonians run this place, you know what I mean? And when people wash up they get killed
Rides in there. Who are these people? There's those people who are processing the purple
There the people are processing the purple. Are you ready? I'm gonna show you tonight. Nobody ever believes me, right?
This is all new by the way for the Satanic congregation. It's all new yummy eat
Delicacies she is what she is a priestess and she is the swallower of the child
She is the mother who swallows the child
You see in antiquity
It wasn't a question of
a mother's capacity
To bring life and bring death. It wasn't a question of that
The earth
The prime oracle I'm talking about a woman now
right
Okay, she didn't notice Greek history was
Heavy and Mediterranean history was heavily have an Egyptian history was heavily heavily influenced
by mother Greek and
That's why we have all of this
Right, it's the language. She's the true queen and that's why you'd need a tower of Babel to come through her
Because she is that power. Okay. Yeah, give me the next one. Give me the next one. What else is she?
She's a pomfagos one who eats all
All what all the other dead things?
Earth the prime oracle eats
the dead and
The Therion now look at this word Therion here now. I know when the translators get ahold of this, right?
They're gonna screw it up
If they didn't already
Um
Therion they're gonna say beasts they're gonna say all the all the other dead and beasts does that make sense? No
No
Those beasts are part of the dead. That's all the dead. What are they talking about Therion?
Classes have failed to acknowledge the existence of a drug
class in
antiquity
Right a drug class those beasts are not
Beasts
Yeah, no, they're drugs
Yeah, and that's why we have authors like necander writing a theriac
Right because it's all about the drugs that will counteract all of these different
Poisonous creatures. It's all dotin and ado. What do you do?
Right love it. Love it. Give me the next one watch this news new stuff people. I promise, right?
We're we're bringing the future with us. Relax kids eat your meal eat your meal
We're bringing the future now. What do I do? What do I do? I invoke the
I
invoke the air
What do I what do I force the air to do and if you haven't been through the right?
If your eyes haven't been opened, you don't know what I'm talking about. So don't worry about it
For those of you who are new today magic is all about the control
The vision of and the control the manipulation of the demons
Yes, we're gonna have something so we're still we're doing that now and what are we doing look around you the air
Is taking on the form of a thick?
death mist
Okay, take it down for a second. Listen to what I just said the air around you is
Taking on the form of a thick death mist this death mist is a woman and
They call her
Achlus
Yeah
Yeah, this is what covers
she
covers the eyes of
the dead
She is the death mist
Okay, we talking about a priestess last time I read that I thought we're talking about yes
Anthropologically we're talking priestesses
Right fantastic fantastic watch we're gonna pull the Bible into so many give me the next one quick
We got it's gotta people are gonna run away
We got three minutes left till people run away don't run away
Watch this people. What is the air? What is the air? I just want you to look at number two
Right, they talk about mr. Hayes, right mr. Hayes
Look at number two the mephitic exhalations
These are the airs the Greek physicians like apocrates
Um
They write about the airs of a place you can walk into a room and there can be malaria there
There can be bad air
Or it can be good air
Yeah, can be good air and these airs will influence you like the priestesses who huff the mephitic vapors
Yeah
Okay, if you think
the Christians
The Jews and the pagans did not find
Their spiritual realities without the assistance directly of drugs
You haven't read any ancient sources
You haven't read what she's we're about to get his drugs. Where are we with them? We're with the mother
Right, we're with the mother who devours. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. Oh, give me the mephitic vapors here
This is beautiful
Where a wait note that we missed go back up go back up to that one that one there we go
Hey, the second line of this right? So the arrow around you is I'm doing magic now, right? I'm doing magic
the error around you is
Taking on the form of a thick death mist and that mist is
There to hide
The true
Poetess
In blindness
You were blind
Your eyes are not open. I
Can give you something I
Can take you somewhere and if we have her
She can open your eyes
Will this thing kill me? No, no, no, no, just stop. It's not gonna kill you give me the next one
Isn't it interesting that you hide the poetess in
blindness is
This why the ancient dragons were spoken of as being blind is
This why Teresius walks around with a stick. Is this why adipus?
Only understands when he's blinded himself
Yes, do you have the guts?
After discovering that you have been madly and passionately in love with your mother
Do you have the guts?
To pop out your own eyeballs
Do you have the guts to do that?
This is the drama
This is the tragedy
That the woman who eats her own child
endures
She is the great savior who endures
Are you ready? Let's see. Let's see what must be done to the child. Are you ready? Everybody's sitting there?
Right? Pass the potatoes
What is going to happen to that child
You pro-lifers I want to ask you
Is that mother
going to kill us in
Edas
Let's see. Let's see the next one. Let's see what she does. Are you ready?
Before we get there. I have to do something. It's official. Excuse me for my satanic duties
This is an implication and I am officially and contractually
darkening the Sun
Because I do not want the Sun to shine upon the vision of
This divine
Poetess
Writing such
Zinotropy now if you sat there if you
Writing what we have to coin words right when you're using ancient Greek
You've got to coin words to catch up. That's all there is to it
And that's why classical philologists end up being the people in society who coin words
Mother Greek has gotten in their system and opened them up
right and
So what is zinotropic?
drama your
existence right now
with the blackening of the Sun and the death mist
around you that is
Zinotropic
Drama
Okay, it's going to appear to you to be very strange
When we give you the Ludovico serum
You're gonna get a funny taste in your mouth and maybe a little bit paranoid
This is the effect of the zinotropic drama
Okay
Those nerds right give me the next one give me the next one those nerds that
Please please Lord Jesus. Can you please bring us back to the Bible?
Where is this woman hidden in
What
Wilderness and what void is she contained?
Do you remember gay in the beginning of the Bible?
right
Right, do you remember the earth in the beginning you remember the uranos and Gaia, right?
You remember uranos and Gaia and what happens Gaia was a oratos
She was in the same place that the hidden
Oracle comes from in your revelation
She is in the wilderness
What they used to call
Eremon
All right, oh
God oh
God it should be it's not but it should be it's neuter
Are you ready?
Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Give me the next one
We're going to the Oracle right you see you see what they did
I'm trying to show you what they did in the third and second centuries
When they created the text that people call now the Old Testament Torah, right the Bible, right all of that
Trying to show you are you ready? We've got to get more
Who is this? Where is this dramaturge?
Where is this one who writes your existence? She is in the blindness
She is in blindness
Okay, give me the next one
Mmm
What kind of mist must you put on you must put on the Achlus?
The death mist
Did you know Lucifer?
Whose member were worshiping if you guys didn't realize that we're on the black sea, right?
And this is late Bronze Age
when these crafting priesthoods own the world and
can guide it through these
Aracular voices. Oh my god
Where did it?
It's democracy of people, right? We got democracy out of the scientific method all the good stuff all the good stuff
Don't worry. It took us a while once the
Anyway, let's by the way, can I just make an announcement for those of you who are history buffs?
I know you love this. I know you love this the oldest form of Western education
Comes out of Lesbos
and
it was the
interference of the Eolian
dialect with
the Scythian
Tech
That brought us our mystery
You know it brought us our mystery
This is where it's coming from doesn't have an origin. Yes
And we're talking about ancestors of these people that go back to the Calcolithic
So don't talk about Egypt. Oh, it came from Egypt. No, it didn't
Yeah, it came from horse cultures
called the Pulaski
Came from them
transmitted their culture through Scythian
lifestyle
Horse these are people on horses so horse so horse adjusted that their bones are shaped differently
The women have you know because it's a big thing for the women on the horses, you know what it means if they go together
They do they really do
Anywho, let's get let's get back into the text there. Bring me another text here. I
Want to frighten people. I want to frighten them. So let's get the good ones
What is she?
Who is this priestess?
Who we saw was the prime oracle the meddwa?
Who is she? She is the paedok ton on
She is the child killer
She is the child
killer
Who is your mother who is your mother?
Your holy mother
Did you know your holy mother is a child killer?
Did you know she is she's a child killer she had be
Right, she kills us all eventually
It's gorgeous. Open up earth. Show us show us what's in your depths. This is why we're breathing the mephitic vapors
It's all part of the it's all part of the
Process of the mystery the initiation and the opening of your eyes. Don't worry. I will warn you though
You will wake up naked
Don't be surprised
Did you people realize that what they were doing in the garden when they take they take the aowa out of the side of the
Adama the invincible. Do you know what they're doing?
Yeah, they're performing the mystery people
And they're sex involved sexual intercourse is the best way to say it scientifically
You know, you could say it like a professor. I had who was a
British instructor of Shakespeare
The in out in out I thought that was clever the in out in out
Thank you for the thank you
Where we mingle that sexual intercourse
In that mid-summer
Is where we find
This priesthood and this oracle
Who is the prime who is the first oracle?
Yeah
Fantastic brilliant the human history is way more interesting than all of the
Garbage that people come up with theory-wise and book-wise to sell books and stuff like that
The actual stuff's way more interesting. Let me show you. Let me show you for example. Look at this
Oh my god
Tane plosin now that plosin is that development. Remember the bible doesn't say that god created adam
Says that he molded him he shaped him he educated him
And
What is what is she then this priestess?
Because we're in the black sea and the temple of diana all their purple all their fingers are purple
What is this place? This is the place of the mother eater
This is the
metrophagon
Do you realize
Everybody that washes the shore on this beach gets sacrificed
Do you understand that you are looking into a mirror
You have washed the shore
You will be sacrificed
Okay
Okay, are you beginning to see where you enter?
Are you beginning to see where you enter this cult how it is that you get into it?
A recognition of your own nature
Right all of us get sacrificed all of us
Right, it's the really really wealthy ones that are just scammering just
Scuttle this place and find a way for me to live extra time
Dude
We all get sacrificed in the end
Right, we all get sacrificed
So let's sacrifice
tonight
a child
To the mother eater
Shall we do that? Shall we do that? There's an ancient riddle in this text
And the riddle says
The
Mother's tomb
Is in the stomach of her daughter
The mother's tomb is in the stomach of her daughter
Okay
I want you to meditate on that
Solve that equation
Tell me why that appears in this Byzantine testimony of the woman who was eating her own children
Give it to me give it to me
This is that molding or confirmation just in case you don't believe me. It's also a training of the voice
You know some kind of training
Who is she the priestess the one who screams awa?
Who is this bucket lady? And by the way, Medea created that worship the bucket worship is through
The medwa
Why do you think the mean ads are all women?
Yeah, why do you think there's an irracular association?
Right, let's see them eat remember. What do they do?
They eat the flesh and drink the blood now. I know if you are taking your period
And you are sharpening it to where your fury
Becomes
A reality where you are taken to the place where you are able imagine this ladies. There's 24 of you
We're gonna have you jacked
On these drugs. It's only women any any men in the vicinity get killed and we're gonna sacrifice a dude
This dude's bad though. Don't worry. What are we gonna do?
Well, we've had him locked up. We're gonna lead him out to the mountains during one of your little
deals
Yeah, when you're your most sharp
And you can have Adam
Do you know what usually happens?
They end up getting torn apart, dude
Torn apart
Torn apart
These are hunting cults
That are part of horse cultures that develop the use of poison arrows
These people don't mess around
and they're
Soldiers who have female organs
But
Governing
Themselves
Those people
Have a lot of this drug right stuff going on. I mean they wake up in the morning. They fumigate themselves
Right
The lifestyle we'll call them, you know, you know, when you say silly and you know what you're actually saying
High
That person is high
That's scutho scuthidzo
Right. It's either to be high or to cut somebody's scalp off
Okay, and who are they they're women some of the tribes are just completely women
completely women
Yeah, fantastic
Fantastic, that's where this is coming from
Now let's get back to she the priestess who sacrifices the child give it to me
Give it to me. She's the all eater. Give me the next one. She's the all leader. What is she?
She is that drama torch and for those of you who are interested in the org
All right, that's the air root that work route
All right, what is she doing? She works the drama by means of what?
Of strange
Muse accomplishments
That's literally what that says
Strange we've got that same word sent off thrive strange
Who is this priestess revealed by the antichrist the one who brings you the right
The one who brings you the right the trick is
Life's trick
It's got nothing to do with
Lengthening your life
It's got everything to do with opening your eyes as to who you are and what is around you
That's the trick. It's an awakening. It's an activation of the brain
They'll get to the point that they do pet scans
Oh my god, this stuff activates all all these pathways
Uh-huh, maybe we had to have receptors for this stuff. You know, you don't have to sit in the laboratory
pharmaceutical companies
You should be out of business
Because all of this stuff is in nature
And it just has to be put together
It just has to be put together. Did you know there are cancer cures?
breast cancer cures in gaolin
And they have to do with that burning purple as well
Very important. Let's take them back to the purple rides. Very go. Give me the next one. Where were we?
Did we get lost? Yeah, um, yep
How do you you know what I mean? How do you eat your mom?
Everybody I just want you to thank for a minute
Imagine especially you daughters
imagine
Cooking and eating your mother
Now I know hang on a second
Some of you are already like, yeah, well, you know
But wait a minute
Now
Put yourself in the position of these 24 women
Who are now tuned into
The ultra violence
The ultra violence of the mother
Who slaughters everyone
Your mind is now there and we have staked this dude out on the ground
And your band is going to come up to him and in a military fashion
You're going to pummel him. Oh god, you make weapons for yourselves. You got this your classic weapon
You know what your classic weapon will be a staff
With a razor sharpened
Metallic pine cone looking thing on the top of it
And what do you do you smash heads with it ladies? Have you ever wanted to smash your head?
All right, but don't worry
We'll smash him and eat him
We're going to eat him. We're going to drink the blood
And when you drink the blood the blood is part of the theriac. It's part of the remedy
It's why you have to harvest those babies. Did we just harvest babies?
Oh, we didn't harvest the babies yet
Oh chewy
Go we got to go there go to the next one quick quick quick go to the next one
Um because it's coming up the baby fest is coming up everybody. We're gonna have baby for dinner
Right yummy. Um, how did you eat those people this way? Give me the next question
Listen to these questions from the interogator. Now for those of you who didn't think the drugs were involved
You know, how are you doing this that you're
Gobbling down these
pharmaceutical thalia
Yeah
These pharmacotic thalia these drug concoctions
Right, how is it?
Because that's what we do and the christians are worried about it because there are sacks of christians who do this
And somebody's baby
Is gonna get eaten
Right
What did the devil do what did the dragon do in the book of the apocalypse which you now understand you're welcome
What did the devil do he went to the woman?
To do what to wait for her to give birth and
Uh, and then what was he gonna do so he could eat the kid he could eat it
He could eat it
That's what the text says naughty
It's so naughty to think of eating children
Oh, I'm so bad. You're so bad. Amen. Oh, I love it. You love it. You know you do
Eating the children now for those of you who like the whipping we've got whipping coming up too
I'm sorry
I'm sorry. These texts are so
Historically dirty
Yes, give it to me. Give it to me. Well, nobody derives any pleasure from this though, right? It's sheerly scientific
um
Next though
Fantastic. Who else is talking about this?
Jesus is talking about it. He says look they'll pick up those snakes and they'll drink their
Death-inducing drugs and it won't hurt them
They're gonna even put their hands on people who were sick
Did you ever get handsy and spit in the mouth of a sick person? That's what they're doing
I'm gonna show you in a second the spitting in the mouth. Why do they keep doing that?
It makes them better, dude
It makes them better
Those guys are on drugs
Big time, you know, christ means to be drugged, right?
You know, jesus christ is
Jesus the drugged guy
Right. Oh my god. Did nobody read the note? Nobody got the note. Um, look what else happens
Um, how can you possibly end up slaughtering?
Children sacrificing children just like you would
The lamb
Do you understand what this sacrificing is?
Let me show you let me show you the sacrifice don't get nervous. I got nervous like oh god. What is he doing? Okay?
Let me show you the sacrificing
The greeks say the chronos
all right
Saturn
He drank down his children. He drank them down
Drank them down
Drained them dry. They're fluid
And why did he do that?
So he could give them back
Protected
Invulnerable
Yeah
You thought the whole eating of the children thing
Which by the way when a mortal sees this happening, it's quite creepy
Yeah, especially when they do the putting them in the fire
Putting them in the fire. You know where this you know where this magic right went
It went all the way from here from taking a child and purifying it
protecting it with
magic
It went all the way to the christian side
Of what are they doing on the christian side they purify the boys
with fire
How do you purify a boy with fire?
According to the catechesis that we have
um you
First of all strip them naked
And you tell them don't worry. It's it's okay that you're naked because Jesus was naked on the cross
Ta-da
Then you what do you do with them then then you oil them up
And this is after you've been having them
Retain keeping food from them right you starve them for a couple of weeks
You'd be surprised how malleable people are with drugs when they've been starved as a matter of fact
You cannot enter the mysteries without a process of fasting
It's part of the deal
And you know, there's probably a ton of people shaman and south america would say oh, that's because that's how the drugs have to work
Blah blah who ha and they're right
They're right
So, um, okay. Give me the next one. What else is she give me? Oh
I want to put up some magic words here. Are you ready? Atleta tlassa
Asal da
del da
Atleta tlassa
You can read it backwards and forwards all you want
Because that's what they do
This is a famous phrase made famous by a very religious person named ascalus
Ascalus was a big a big respecter of the altar of justice
And he writes about the woman. Are you ready?
Um, this is this is the Byzantine person who's using this phrase to refer to the oracle
To refer to the mother who eats her children the drama of the mother who eats her children, right?
And what is she
she
Is the one who bears
That which is unbearable
She's the one who suffers
that which is
You're incapable of suffering. It's so weighty
That's her, okay
That is why you sacrifice your children
Don't pass your children to the fire
Says the text why because people are passing their children through the fire
as a right
It is a right meant to bestow
Immortality they call it burning off your mortality
And it's very painful when the kid yells
And you know, it's being fumigated while all this is happening and they're putting christing it. Oh my god. What do you do?
Right
Get your oils ready. Give me the next one. What happens? What happens? Remember?
the earth
hides the drama
The earth hides the drama if you came here tonight to have your eyes open to the reality
understand
The quantum reality of the earth
Hiding the drama and it's time to release it, right? It's time this Byzantine
Nameless dead guy. Give it to me. What what do we do with this whole stuff?
What do we do with it?
We worship and serve the priestess
who is
That one who consumes the child
Right, you have to put yourself in that position
Yes, put yourself in that position. She who eats all of those other dead
and
Those beasts
Okay, give it to me give it to me now. We've got to put it in hyperdrive. Are you ready? Are you ready?
Iotalina Caimone
Panathlia
What am I doing? Does everybody see that there's a bachic shout?
This Byzantine author has preserved for us a bachic shout
You know, oh god
Right, who is she? She is this wretched suffer
She
Is entirely engaged in the contest
Do you know what the muse does the muse writes existence and that performance that writing
Is portrayed as an active a very active sport
It's a contest
Right, it's a contest. Let's see who can do it best
You know what?
Love it. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. What else is this you Byzantine guy?
This is a dramaturge of
That very strange working of the muse
So what is happening now with the release of achlus?
The mist the death mist that is around you and will dominate you
that death mist
Reduces a new work of the muse and that is what the antichrist
Is here to do
Did we see the antichrist passage again? It's coming up. It's coming up. Where'd he where'd he go? Where'd he go?
Where does Medea
Where what does Medea not do?
He's very specific or Byzantine author is very specific
He she doesn't sacrifice the child the offspring
To her stomach
That's not what you're doing when you consume the child
It is an act that is not meant for yourself
It is an act that is meant for your offspring the earth
The prime oracle
Gives us what she gives us
For the sake
Of all of us
Not for herself
Isn't that gorgeous so the original savior and that's what he's gonna do
He's gonna have us confess for salvation right this because they're in a tribe. It's not a trial anymore
It's a woman who's eating her children who's talking to
Talking to a confessor
Yeah, I forget there's a title for him. It's in the first couple of lines
Um
Something decay it's got decay on the end of it justice minister of justice like anyway
Let's go to the bible because is this whole child eating thing and sacrificing thing in the bible
Of course it is because the bible is written in the third century right and it's reflecting things that are going on around it
So watch this faking
Of history what you're about to see is part of the biggest lie
Of history what is the biggest lie of history that the bible was written like
Eighth century seventh century. No, it wasn't it was written in the third century
Right and so what is going on in the third century? It's influencing the bible watch the story gets
Who is this? This is from the book of judges
This is chapter 11. This is yet. And what does yet the do?
He sacrifices his daughter
His child
Are you ready to watch him sacrifice his child?
Why would this judge of israel?
In this fake history because right when about the period that he's writing about none of this stuff actually happened
There's no archaeology for it
Right and it's obviously a fake
Right, it's a fake watch it watch how they they follow
He sacrifices his daughter. Why does he do that?
Why does he do that? Watch this here's the passage
Who is he after all? Who is this judge?
This judge
Who is he?
This judge of israel is the son of a prostitute
And it turns out
um
Her son was from a dude who you know, he was well off had a lot of things
And he had kids from his wife
And his wife and his kids got together and they're like you got to get out of here. You're the son of a hooker
You got to get out of here
Okay, who is this dude? Look at the next verse 29 at the top. What does he do?
And yet
The did what he gets the spirit of kuryu. He does what?
He enters into that spirit that pnell ma where the prophets enter into and he makes a deal
with yahoo
He makes a direct deal with them if you let me kill the army of amun
Because that's who they were fighting at the time
In the story
Right, why would they be fighting that by the way for the for the jewish people out there?
I want to liberate you tonight that stuff was invented in the third century your actual history is way more interesting
And you come through creed. Did you know that you come through creed?
Yeah
Yeah, it's fantastic. It's fantastic. They knew that in antiquity, right?
Why didn't we just read their works trying to figure it out?
Because the monism that is the modern religion of judaism is no different from christianity islam
Or what they came up with when they worshiped a ten under akhenaten
Who did they stop worshiping when they came up with the monism?
They stopped worshiping the augduad
The eight what what is it?
Uh-huh the eight was led by amun and they are the basic rulers
of the cosmos
It's a physics that's no different from the physics of the presocratics
It's no freaking different the mechanics are all the same
And what are the what are the monists do?
They said we know we're gonna have one god and everybody else is dead. That's all there is to it. It's dead
Right and we're gonna make up history
About this one god
Right, it's the same thing. They all do the same thing akhenaten's group did it
Right 1300 years before this right or a thousand years before the bible was written akhenaten was doing the same thing
He was a king a pharaoh who was coming up with a new system
That was a monism that could exclude all of his enemies
Right, that's that's never gonna work. It's tyrannical right polytheism is inherently democratic
Monism is inherently tyrannical. Why do you think they're all talking? Oh lord?
We're your slaves, but didn't you recognize the tyranny?
Remember what the oracle said straight from the devil man. I'm telling you you'll find no help
In your wealth for what you're about to endure you'll find nothing for it
Why your creed man your creed has ruined everything. It's ruined everything
Give me the next one. You're always like that. What happens with this guy?
He swears an oath
He swears an oath with yahoo and he says look if you give me so that I conquer this army of almond
What i'm gonna do
Is i'm going to uh sacrifice to you the first dude I see
When I get back to my home. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. This is a leader of israel
This is a leader of israel who's talking about a war that ultimately is a genocide
And what is he doing? And why is it a genocide because monism promotes genocide? Okay, so if you look at the history
Look at the history
What happens when you're trying to squash that one ethnic group if this god gives me the victory
The first dude that walks out of my house. I'm gonna burn them alive
In your honor
Okay, do you see?
Do you see what's going on?
Oh my goodness
It's rather sickening. So what happens he gets he gets to his home. This says transit, you know
Yes, I came into mas sefa his home
Place of his home and look look. Let me tell you what happened his daughter
His daughter came out to meet him right out of the house. So what does she come out with?
Watch this people you thought you knew the bible you do not
What does she come out with it says in tumbanois? That's with their drums
And what else horos?
With a chorus
Yeah, she comes out with a chorus. Why?
She is a worshiper of bakis
She's a worshiper of bakis. Watch what happens through so she comes out with her chorus, right?
And it says the text says she is his monogenes
She is his only born
Do you know what the only born daughter?
does
She bears the grief
The unbearable grief and what happens what happens it says she
He got he's got no other kids. That's it. She's the monogenes
All right, and what happens to her so she says okay, let it be right. She's fine with it
You know you made a vow you prayed your prayer
We're bound. It's part of our tradition. And so what does she say just give me two months
I'm translating allow me the time span of two months so that I can go around
On the mountains and I can mourn
My virginity and she says let me go and let all my companions
That is the the who's with her
Who's with her the daughter of the judge has with her a band of mean ads
She says let us go up into the mountain in our chorus
And let us mourn
My virginity
Then she comes back
She comes back when it's time when she's had her two month period
She comes back and she says
Here I am and so he burns her alive
He burns her alive
Now what does the text say you can keep that image up? What does the text say?
That the daughters of israel do it says this is why the daughters of israel
perform
this ritual morning
This is why they perform this festival. This is why they go up in their bucket groups
I just told you to the jewish audience out there. Not only are you originally cretin
right, but
um
You're participating in bacchic orgies
bacchic orgies
Yeah
Your religion is originally bacchic
And i'm not the only one who says that plutarch says that straight up
Judaism is taken from the worship of bacchus and then he starts to rattle off a whole bunch of for this reason
This week he goes through all the symbols and whatnot and all the priestly stuff that's going on
Um, so cool. Cool. That's your real heritage. You were not
honest
And by the way, that's how it works for the um arab community as well
Yeah, no you guys were worshiping bacchus and afrodite long time
Before you the the concept of a monist divinity ever came about
Remember it was only after that monist divinity came about who was a dude that you guys got the 70 virgins
You didn't have 70 virgins before that
Right that don't you think that that's not in the makeup right just
Listen to yourself listen to your inner
reasoning on that one
Right think about that for a minute
I thought we were supposed to throw the acid up. No, no, no
Right no
logic
That is your peg and root. Isn't that interesting what we've done tonight?
Isn't that interesting somebody comment on this? We just said
the jewish people
and
a particular group of muslims
We're originally from the same religions
Wouldn't that shock you?
Wouldn't that shock you to know that they were originally polytheists?
right
Oh my god
Oh my god
It's only when the monism comes to the surface
That all of a sudden people got to be put in cages and you can't do this with that
By the way porn is going to be illegal again
right
Do you know how hard it was for my generation in the 70s and early 80s to access that?
Do you know how hard it was because the pressure exerted by the monists was so strong
They had every aspect of your life wrapped up. You couldn't even see
nudity
Oh my god
We had to worry about looking at ancient statues. Can I show these pictures to my students?
Can I show that was a problem?
Right, we're going back. Guess what we're going back there and by the way you brits
By by the way bringing the smacker by the way you brits, which the british class is wonderful
It's wonderful. Love it
Fantastic good
But you brits you got to know
You got to know this stuff is going on
Right and you're perpetuating it. There's a lot of the
What's wrong, man?
Did you not listen to your classicists? Did you not listen to the historians of the language of mother greek?
God, where's everybody that wears the funny hats and stuff?
That's what we need. We need those people back with the funny hat. Where's give me the next one
It turns out jews and arabes. They're from the same from the same religion parent religion
It was by the way, you guys were way nicer to each other when you worship gods of sex and ecstasy
I'm just saying I'm just saying you're kind of on the extreme now, you know, I mean kind of getting misogynist, you know
Kind of going that direction historically
um, that tends to happen historically watch the misogyny and the culture be a reaction
by ultra
And it's why you've got the old the violence, right? It's why you've got the violence
Something's out of balance. You were sitting there on your island and you were saying ah, not us
Not us. I told you england
Not to sleep with america. I told you
You're gonna have to get a prescription now
Right. Oh god. Let's go to the next one. I love saying things that are totally just off the
Um, look what I what do I want you to do satanic congregation? I want you to bring me everything
I want you to spit out everything that leads us to salvation
And that's where we need to go. Um, I want you to confess
What do I want you to do? I want you to betray a secret or a mystery. See how I'm I'm not reading this in there
This is in the greek. I want you to confess what is going on in the mystery
I want to know why we're eating children. Did those children ever arrive? Where's that?
Where where is that?
Delivery guy. That's the last time i'm using that
Service, um, what are we looking for people? He hasn't gotten here with the kids yet. Do you understand?
Um, watch this people look at the second word eo days. Remember the eos is that aero poison. What are we talking about?
We're talking about eodotic flesh
Sarcas
Eodotic flesh. What is that flesh full of it's full peplis menos full of what pharma con
Pharma con
It's full of the drugs
It's full of the drugs. Do you know what you need in the mystery community? You need eodotic flesh
Is that why they call the virgin half virgin half viper?
Yes, because of her eodotic flesh
Remember I told you if you'd been in the mystery you would have understood this already, right?
You would have seen it take place
It would have fried your mind your eyes would have been open and you'd be walking around saying now
You know the best thing I ever did best thing I ever did was go to that mystery initiation
best thing ever
And you the other person would be like well tell me about you really can't
Right, it's the thing you got to go through it. They got to train you
You
Right, this is going to be a work of the muse that is
completely
Othlon
athletically driven
Completely athletically driven
Okay, this is no the muse doesn't mess around. This has got to be done, right? Give me the next one. Give me the next one
That was the last one. Yeah, so oh by the way this eodotic flesh. What do you do with it? You eat it?
Right, what is what do you do with flesh? You eat it?
So you quote unquote eat the flesh
And drink the blood and his question is here. We're asking the we're asking the woman who's been eating her children
What how can you do this and not die?
How can you eat this flesh and not die?
Remember what jesus said i'll give you that death inducer and it won't kill you you're
Remember what happened and eating their eyes were opened
All right
That's where you're gonna go
Into death and back and when you've been into death and back you can tell all your friends
Oh
Don't worry it's for this reason this reason right or you can tell your friends. Holy shit. You know what I saw
Oh, you've got to stop this or that right you can't we've got to we've got to change
things
That's the right that they're performing
But and what do we say? What do we ask this one? How'd you do it?
Did you have any assistance who knew the eos? Look at the second to last word eod
Did you have any assistance who knew the poison and let me tell you what she says?
Do you want you know why I can tell you what she says because I'm going to translate this now is a good time
To reveal the drama
Now's a good time to reveal the drama. Are you ready? Look i'm using the greek to speak for me
It's like automatic writing or something. I love it. Why are we doing this in order that you may escape?
The three emboss
In the day of judgment. What do I need to escape three emboss?
What is that? It's a hymn
to a to who?
Bacchus
Why do I need to escape that because if you hear that you're going to die
If you hear that it means they're coming for you orpheus
And they're going to take your head off
Okay, this is what you need some sort of pardon
From this day of judgment. You mean it's talking about the day of judgment. That's a pagan thing. Yeah
It is a pagan thing most definitely and um, what is she daring to do? So she says look
You got to do this stuff. You got to have some kind of anthropoctonus
Anthropoctonus, excuse me in english
It would be anthropoctonus
You've got to some have some kind of assistance who know about killing people
Right, you have to if you're going to eat your own child. You got to have to know how to kill them
Okay, do you understand
We're taking these children. We're subjecting them to rights that have chemicals involved
And we're putting them into death
To bring them back. Why would you do that to bring them back immortal?
Because once you've been across
You bring back with you the memory
Who's the mother of the muse the memory?
Of what is reality?
You are covered by a fog
a fog of confusion and the only way
For you to come to an understanding of your true reality is through this right
If it's good enough for cicero
You know what I mean? If it's good enough for cicero, maybe it's good enough for me
Give me the next one. Give me the next one. Who are the servants of this great priestess? Okay, I've shown you
I'm showing you a goddess tonight that she didn't realize she is an amazonian goddess
I've shown her to you. You're on lesbos where they founded colleges for women
For women. Why didn't they teach men because men are stupid
Men are stupid. Didn't she realize that?
okay
imagine a world
where the bias
is against
men
Because of their lack of intelligence
They're not biased because of their physique
And by the way anybody who's watched the olympics holy mackerel. Where was that weightlifter from? Where was she from?
Do you remember Italy? I think it was Italy. Was it Italy? Yeah. Oh my god
I watched her lift and I thought
This is
This is what it's supposed to be
This is like the potential. Is that why the olympics are so fun because they show you the potential
Right, because you know you and I'd be laying on the sidewalk huffing and puffing. We can't go there
We can't go there
right
why because
We stopped we stopped worshiping the gods
All right, it's okay though because you lost the formula you lost the recipe without the recipe. There is no
It's got to work through her and that's it. It's why it's why what's his name that rich guy? Who's the rich guy?
Mr. Brain implant what's his name?
Oh elon. It's why elon never finds historically that fountain
They never find that fountain
It turns out you can't have it. You can't buy it. You can't create it. You can't recreate it
It's got to come through the muse
It's got to be organic
completely organic and it's an organic process that is a
The formation of what they call a new or strange work of the muse
And this muse is the dark muse who devours the children
Give me the next one. I thought christianity was nice. No
No people give me the next one. Um, who are the helpers of this goddess?
Who are they? They're all around you. Are you ready? Her helpers are those?
She says that cannot be born
They cannot be endured
because of their force and that word for force there is the same word for the force that is used in
That word that we can't say
in
violent
Sexual encounters
Yeah
Yeah
Same word
Those diamonase remember I told you what the magic is the magic is controlling those diamonase. Guess what?
Who makes a person insane?
Who makes a person insane? Who makes a person hear things?
Who makes a person afraid and paranoid?
A diamon that word diamonase is just a capacity a power
And who controls those diamonase?
Those whose eyes have been opened
Now
Isn't it gorgeous
You mean I confirm a distance I can
This is starting to affect me. I bet
I bet we could find Henry Cavill. I bet if there's a way to find Henry Cavill
It'll be through dreams
It'll be through dreams
It'll will stand over his head will stand over him while he sleeps
And you can do what it's in the text here. I'm just telling you jewelry. What's in the text? Give me the next one
What happens? Oh god, we're in the middle of this cult. How do we how do we get out of this cult?
um
Look, you're with her
the
Prime oracle and where is she she is confined
In a place
Why is she confined somewhere because she has fled
She has fled her blood
Loving
enemy
She has fled from those
Who have the blood lust
Do you want
The blood of christ? I hear a lot of christians talking about that. I hear a lot of evangelicals
I know the power of the blood of christ. I know that you can say the power of the blood of christ and you can bind demons
Let's do that
Let's do that
Give me the next one. Where is she? She's confined in a they me us
Why is she confined in the void?
Why is she confined? Do you remember the woman who is in revelation?
Do you remember where she is?
She has a place in the void that is up with you
She has a place
Okay
We're with the child we're entering the child into death
We're bringing the child back to life
We must do this from the void
Okay, we must do it from the void
It's 24 24 women
Right
Give me the next one. Give me the next one. Oh, and there's whips and falls. What are we whips for? They're for that divine justice, baby
They're for that divine justice if you don't have the whips
If you don't have the whips ladies
How are you gonna bring the divine justice
How are you gonna bring it now for those of you with ears to hear who go to that witches banquet?
Right where the food's not very good, but the company's great
Right for those of you who go there. Where are your whips?
Where is the insanity?
Are you really going to give in?
Really give me the next one. I love it. I love getting
Getting them ready getting the band ready. What are we gonna do here people? I'm gonna show you a miracle. You know what? You know what?
Can we just see her?
Set someone on fire
Can we just see it, please? Here's a text for us. It talks about she of the golden hair, right? She's got this
crown on
Right and this very famous pep loss that is just
full of
poison
And she bursts into flames, but when she burst out into flames this miraculous thing happens. It's wonderful
Shooting off of her accoutrements
Are these
Lava flows these flaming all-consuming fires
Somehow
The medwa is able to control
That flame they call it the seed of fire the seed of fire
The seed of fire remember
something about the devil
Her seed and your seed
There is a way and i'm offering this to the congregation tonight
There is a way out
Do you know what that way out is? It's the afil argros way
It's that life. It's the life without the love of the silver
Do you have the love of the silver in you? Is that a virus that is in you?
Do you know that you demand the mother to eat her own child?
Do you know you do that and why do you do that?
Because you have that love
And it has to be purged
It has to be purged
Every day in every way
The love has to be purged
It's the way out now here you go chewy. We've got
Somebody bringing Henry Cavill which by the way if anybody knows out there Henry Cavill
Please
You know, please
Let him know
That there is a star
That has descended
From the uranos
And that star burns with a heat that was shot
From his eyes
Let him know that let him know that please
Please before something happens, right something
Yeah, anyway, let's go to the next chewy. Does that qualify? You're not gonna okay. Excellent. You see what I do people
I work for chewy
They don't people don't realize that. Um, what am I gonna do? Okay. Are you ready? What are we gonna do with our
Puella, what are we gonna do with our girl?
Who is entering this
world
Of magic and manipulating the things that she herself has seen
Due to her eyes being opened
Right remember when your eyes are open you end up naked
You end up naked
What are we gonna do in these christian sex?
We're gonna bring out
The girls
So that they can be opened
Whether their sisters or daughters or mothers
Okay
Friction do you see the friction this caused historically
We're talking about rights that are chemical and sexual
part of a culture
Christianity
Reacted to itself when it cut this off of its own body
Because christians followed the mysteries and that is what this text is saying the reason it's in latin is the dude
Doesn't want you to understand what it's actually saying. It's a way to hide it
It's a way to hide it and you know what he says here. He says here
It's that's okay. I'm tiny. He says here at the time that we all celebrate the passion of the lord
You know they bring the girls into this
Especially designated area and oh god, he starts, you know, this is gonna be terrible to talk about right and any sort of light
Is gonna shine on this act. They get rid of that light, right? This is all done in the darkness
all done the darkness and
What do they have they have a flaggiti e tested, you know
There's a real
flaggitium
going on
What they're doing is they're allowing those people
to express
that desire
Do you know how to keep people
from becoming
The r-word that none of us can say with an ist on the end of it
a bananaist
Right, you know how to keep people from becoming that
train them
train them sexually
train them chemically
You know, it's not just the lace days. It's not just the ancient traders and the purple who are also trading
Sexual slaves. It's like Jesus. It's not those people alone who understand
The use of drugs in the sex trade
They weren't the only ones who understood it
Right today. Look at what's going on today. People understand that today
the use of drugs
To mold and shape and groom a person
is a reality
What they are doing in antiquity in all sorts of places all over the Mediterranean is they're using drugs
and sex
To shape people
They will burn off your mortality
They will open your eyes
And when you have seen what is floating around you
Perhaps you'll figure out a way to use it
Yeah, because you'll be awake. Otherwise be asleep like everybody else. I don't care. I don't care, right?
Who cares the invisibility around you who cares the oracular the prophetic who cares
Right as long as we get the history. Do we care?
Do we have an obligation to these tanks give it to me? I want to scare people
I've got text to scare people. Are you ready on the expiry of nine months?
When the unnatural progeny of an unnatural seed is about being born
They meet again at the same place and on the third day after parturition
Tearing the wretched infants from their mothers and scarifying their tender flesh with knives
They catch and basins the dripping blood and casting the infants still breathing
On the pile
consume them
Still breathing you're a mother
And you're watching you're still breathing infant child be bled
and burned
Now the question is
The burning doesn't kill so what's going on what kind of burning is this
They catch and basins the dripping blood and casting the infant still breathing on the pile consume them afterwards mingling their ashes
What are these ashes because actual ashes don't do jack
Right
What kind of ashes are these?
Mingling their ashes remember the mother as she saw this being done to demopon. She's like stop stop
Now, you know why she was saying that
Some horrific stuff is happening in this little right
All right, and it's got to be done by the mother who's willing to kill her child
Afterwards mingling their ashes. They make a sort of horrible compound with which secretly defiling their food
Liquid and solid like those who mix up poison with mead
You know those people. What is that a bill cosby reference?
Right
Seriously, what is that sudden reference to it? You know those people who put poison in your drink
I
Not only they themselves partake of these vines, but others also who are not privy to their secret proceedings
You know, what's fun? It's fun to drug your neighbor's mead
You know what you can do you can drug your neighbor's mead and then you can do things with your neighbor
Wouldn't normally
Take place you can bring out that inner. I don't know monster
You can bring out that inner monster imagine ladies imagine
Killing and consuming that one dude
Killing and consuming him, you know, he deserved it
Now imagine doing it when your cycle is tuned
To that violence
When you're brought you are an instrument
Of justice
When you are tuned
To the violence imagine there's a capacity did men have this capacity? No
No, the only men that are involved are the seers and the poets
The seers and the poets they are not part of the mean ads
Why why can a woman only get to that place? I don't know. Maybe it's because I'm a man
That I'm asking that question. Maybe some women. I know there's some women somewhere. I can see them. They're sitting there and they're like
This guy
This guy names the obvious
Right, I know you're out there. Give me the next one. Give me the next one and then we have to get to some
Grammar stuff like that. We're almost done people. We're almost done. I want you to listen to this theration
Again, this is coming from Byzantine greek government named Michael cellis
They are persuaded that by this means the divine symbols inscribed in our souls are thrust out in a sponge
Do you know what you do with rights with magical rights?
You take the symbols that are inscribed in your soul
Thanks to your culture and you get rid of their influence
This is what the theration is telling you
Give me the next one. Do you see why they call them purifications?
Purifications, do you want to be purified of the fog of monism?
Yeah
Here you go
Give it to open your eyes
Open your eyes
My son my child. I want to give you the prophecy again. My son my child
Do you imagine that they will ever again restore literature or anything excellent?
The time is at hand when men will live worse than wild beasts for now
Antichrist is at hand even at the doors
and evil
precursors in the shape of
Monstrous doctrines and unlawful practices is you know what you could call lady Babylon
You could just give it that title monstrous doctrines and unlawful practices
All the blasphemy you can swallow here it is
This has to take place
What kind of things monsters practices are revealed for the Antichrist to come it's the orgies of Bacchus
Do you know why because the origin of Christianity and Judaism and Islam are all
Bacchic orgies
This is what our ancestors were doing
And whatever things have been represented by the Greeks and their tragedies as Saturn
Notice Saturn
Thaestes and tantalists devouring the offspring edifice debauching his mother. Oh, she was so pretty
She was so pretty did it really matter?
Right. He was he was raised outside the house. Anyway, he's raised with somebody else
Right and she was young
When she was married and when he came and killed daddy
Right, he didn't know it was daddy
all right, but
Then he
fell in love with her
Yokasta
Right, look is it just me or is that another cult name? You're right. It is
Love your mother, baby
Love your mother. What's so wrong with it? That's what she told him. What's wrong with this?
Even if it is that way
Who cares? We love each other
All right, your mother
your mother
Give it to me
Get it to me
All that stuff is coming on our state, right? But my good friend
They are not in corporeal the demon tribe have a body and are conversant with corporeal beings
Which one may learn even from the holy fathers of our religion
If one only addict himself notice it's just himself
Hardly to magical practices
All right, where are you is a christian if you want to know
if you want to know
The control of those demons and I know there are christians today who talk about controlling demons
And what they say is absolute evidence of their complete and total ignorance
It's funny
How bad they are
Do you know what they deserve? They deserve a magical spanking. They deserve a magical spanking. Everybody concentrate
Concentrate love it. Love it
It's always, you know how you can get there first one who gets there is the incubus
The incubus always gets there the fastest, you know, you can infiltrate the mind of a person
Yeah
You can um, you just have to have the right demons to do it
It's just the physics of the universe physics of the cosmos. I'm not I'm not
Giving you anything, but what they gave us and said to us. I'm not creating a
System here. This is their system. They're operating physically with drugs sex
They're doing these rites. They're christing each other if I see one more christing. Where was that christing?
We need to see somebody spit. Give me the next one. Is there a christing? Look. Oh, no
Look the demons they have they have seed to they have seed to and you know, thank worms
Okay, just it's thank worms
Thank worms in your sleep. Do you see the worms? You'll know
Somebody has left their seed
Okay, try to
try to okay
Yeah
But some dude look uh laboring under a laconic necessity
Somebody confessed the truth for he said that he had come to the knowledge of demonical practices
Through a certain vagabond african who bringing him by night to a mountain. Isn't it fine?
They always have the same setup
Jesus is with mary and the kids. He's like, well, let's go out to a private place, right?
So here he goes up to his mouth and what does he do?
He causes him to partake of a certain herb, right?
Then he spits into his mouth and anoints his eyes with a certain ongoing look how many drugs are involved
Enabled him to see a host of demons. You know what happens when this dude does this to you you can see him
You can see him from among which he perceived a sort of raven fly towards him and down his throat into his stomach
And all the shaman in south america central and south america are like, yeah
That's how it works, right? It's nothing new. It's not new technology people. She and her confinement now
we're going to switch really quick to
Somebody who is in that space of of consuming their child. She and her confinement was very ill and raved
Okay, she's been through it, right? She's been through it. The purple has been involved. She's been through it
Um, and she's what is she doing? She's tearing her bedroom bed gown. She's muttering a sort of barbarous tongue
And so what they always do, right? Jesus on the cross is all
Well, sabak thon he starts yelling out magical gods
They're always doing that in a low murmuring torn town nor could the bystanders comprehend what she said
But we're in a state of perplexity not knowing what to do
She's in there. She's in that zone. And what happens give me the next one
Oh god
Boom
And he said some dude says I apprised the present company the fact
Okay, um, she's just one of ours. Yeah, she's just one of ours
and I want you to know
that
What's coming is somebody will be sent against us by whom the mysteries
Of our worship will be persecuted and the mysteries of our service
abolished
right
so
People keep it secret
For you to access the reality that's around you
For you to have your eyes opened
People keep that a secret because other people are always trying to shut it down
And Jesus knows this
It's why he's saying, you know, he's got 12 boys, right? It's why he's saying
Uh, they're gonna catch me they're gonna catch me and they're gonna crucify me
right
Why did he say they're gonna crucify him because that's what they do to people like him
Right. He was crucified between two other people just like him
This is how it works
And what's gonna happen here? Somebody's gonna come and they're they're gonna drive us out of town
Right, they're gonna catch us. They're gonna
Scandalize us. I don't know how many times Jesus Christ said
Don't talk about this. You're gonna scandalize me and nobody turned around and looked like
What's up with the son of god, dude? He's like hiding something
Right, of course he is because he's a son of god and those guys use drugs on children
remember
Didn't you see the last supper
Isn't it funny? You thought the last supper was this great event
This great event historically jesus and ha we have the painters who are bringing us the renaissance paintings
It's what you didn't realize it was a creepy cult right involving drugging children and sexually abusing them
You didn't realize that that is your holy feast
Right, that's why moses only so yahu's anus
Give me the next one
Give me the next one people don't like it. They don't like it. Um, look at this people just for
Proof to throw in your face. Look at this word troctase. It's from trogo
Right, and what does it mean somebody who knows?
Right somebody who knows choose
Right and you get the idea of greedy from it
Yeah, you've got to chew you got to eat you got to consume. It's like consumer
What what does that say on the first line finnish and traffickers?
finnish and traffickers
What do you think those finnishians are trafficking in besides the purple?
That's why we call them purple people
What do you think they're trafficking in kids for what?
food
Food for your desire
Now
Welcome to christing
You didn't know jesus christ was a drugged out creep. Did you now you do now you do and your eyes can't be shut
Your eyes can't be shut
Um, I want to bring you a couple last references. This one is to a work by
luchin
And luchin is right right wrote something called the dialogues of the prostitutes
And this is one of those dialogues. It's a dialogue between two prostitutes and they're talking about clients
right and
Glukera whose name means sweetie
Right, sweetie says hey
Um, you know the woman you're talking the girl you're talking about her mother
Is one of these golden mistresses who understand the the salient
songs
All right the song from thessaly
Remember this is where all the witches come from this is where all the drug knowledge comes from
This is where the plascha and roots are these are the people who originally settled down
From a horse culture to a culture that's producing
Incredible
pharmacological advances
They're all coming from here. She says don't you know this girl's mother is one of those people and she knows those songs
She knows how to draw down salini
Have you ever seen salini drawn down?
When your eyes are opened
You'll understand
The process of drawing down salini. You mean I can see things that you can't see around you
Yes, you mean I can cause things to be around you that you can't see yes
Okay
Okay, do you see why we have to be quiet about this we have to be quiet because if everybody knew about this
We'd never be able to operate
Right
Mmm. Love it. Oh, what is it? What is there anything else that I don't know? What else can she do?
All right. Now you explain this to me by night during night
In the darkness. She is able to fly
She's able to fly and what else?
This woman
Causes people to go crazy
Causes them to want to drink her drugs
These are the people who are part of the mystery that must be revealed for the antichrist to be present
If you want to understand
The antichrist you have to understand the mystery
The mystery has to be revealed and you're sitting there saying but wait a minute
Omen this has nothing to do with modern Christianity. No, it doesn't
Right. What you have left is a faith
a doctrine
Right. Same thing as Judaism same thing as Islam. You have a doctrine
You have a list to follow
Right. Notice polytheist societies don't produce faiths
For people to follow
They're inherently flexible so that your opinion you can follow different gods all you want
Right. What do you follow? Uh, big justice in here. What is it? Love that one? That one's a big
Devotee of love. You know how I'm talking about right those people
Right. Okay. Cool. Give me that one. Um, and what else? Remember Achilles?
Remember Achilles, who does Achilles end up with in the underworld? He ends up with the Medwa
There's a reason for that. What does it say here? Here? He was placed
With the virgin girls. What kind of virgin girls was he placed with you see that word?
They're the
What kind of workers? What kind of workers?
They are the purple diars
They are the purple diars
Do you know what those priestesses did? They protected and shielded Achilles
Do you know why Achilles went to Troy?
Because he was drawn by the face of Medea
Home he called Helen
Isn't that something
It's gorgeous. Okay. So, um, did we get to eat our children tonight?
Did we get to find the reason to eat our children tonight?
Are we going to follow the first oracle?
Which is earth
Which is called earth
Are we going to find?
She who writes existence
She who brings the new and strange work
Are we going to follow her?
Only if our eyes are open
Fantastic, it's been a lovely group of people tonight that we've had to deal with
and put together into a picture for you of
The mystery but like always that's our job is to bring it to you
Is to bring it to you now
I guarantee you can take that stuff to the scholars never worked with the dude from
The dude who's who's writing about the woman eating her child. I guarantee it. It's not a popular stuff
You know the Byzantine the classicists don't mess with the Byzantine stuff. Why I think it's I don't know. I don't know
It's a real weakness in classical philology. They don't extend all the way up to
guys like michael cellis
Who are bringing us the girls with the purple
Isn't that gorgeous
Isn't that gorgeous? What a right remember that thration we ran into that turned that kid into a golden new creation
By putting him to sleep and cutting off his testicles
You know why he did that that was for the kingdom of heaven and that's what they made
With each other and you know how they got there praying
to
Sabbath praying to yahoo Sabbath
That's how you get there
My god, we didn't even know our own history. It's exciting right it makes the history of actual
Judy as it makes it interesting
Right to see what the what the origins of everything were it's absolutely gorgeous and of course
This world cannot bear it and many people have been emailing me and say look
This is going to get I even had somebody off for private security
Right because this knowledge
Will crack open
Reality around you this mystery operation will blow
Completely blow up the past that you thought was there that isn't
And it'll it'll show us something more beautiful. It always does hit the actual history is way more beautiful
Okay, I'm going to call the drill sergeant out now for uh,
for almond use
Greek
Class intensive Greek via almond you and so what I want you to do is I want you to watch the exit
And then um, we'll go through a few things textbook wise. Look at some exercises. Maybe roll around
Maybe, you know, take off some clothing and roll around in some greek. That's what we'll do a big
A big pit of feathery lovely greek. I love it. We're gonna go there. Um, chewy hit the I'll be back. Don't run away. Go ahead
But you are all the flames
Make these bitches jump
Dr. Do
You
Okay, we were halfway through unit three last time.
We had taken the dive and the units two and three, which is all about verbs.
And from there, we're going to get to the unit, the unit one through three exam.
And people will be able to take that exam.
It's in your book.
And by the way, if you haven't gotten the book yet, they are still on back order.
There is a copy that you can use a digital copy until you get your hard copy at the
discord that is posted for us or will be posted for us.
And by the way, people are going to the discord to supplement what they're getting on almond
you.
And that is smart.
That is a good move.
Keep it up.
The TAs there will take great care of you and will help you along in this process.
They've all been through it.
Same thing.
It's the same course.
So their understanding of your pain and your suffering and your ecstasy, all of those together.
Love it.
Okay.
By the way, I need students who still want to enter.
I've got two classes for Americans and Canadians, North Americans, essentially.
And one class for Brits and any other Europeans that we pick up, we still need two or three.
If you're out there and you're European and you're thinking, I got a little taste for
the Greek, we need you in that class.
Now's your opportunity.
And finally, we've got a class for Aussies that will cater to the proper time so everybody
can go to work and do their classwork after their work is done.
And they're sitting at home doing nothing.
So that class hasn't formed yet.
I need Aussies who are interested.
I've only got a couple of names and I know I got way more in the applications.
If you're interested in, you are an Aussie, please send me an email that's to almondhillman
at gmail.com.
And please put in the title, Aussie class.
This is, you're going to be Epsilon.
You'll be class Epsilon.
So we've got an Alphabet, Gamma, Delta and our Delta reading group is going to be a hell
of a lot of fun.
It's going to, because we're going to breach into the ass and pull out as much as we can.
That's Lucien's ass that we're going to be, that we're going to don't, that's Lucien's
ass that we're going to be, just, we're just going to expose it, just completely expose
it for every, every little bit of goodie that's in there.
You know what I mean?
And it's got a lot of goodie.
Lucien's ass is, is, is chocked full of goodie.
Fantastic.
Let's go.
I want to take you to another, do we, I hope these are, yeah, here's some exercises.
Here's some exercises.
I know I told you any order is fine.
But here's what I really want to show you first.
I want to show you the Optative and the Subjunctive Moods.
The Optative and Subjunctive Moods are used in specific types of constructions, like conditional
sentences, if, then, types of sentences, or purpose clauses.
In order that, we went to the grocery store in order to buy food.
That in order is what you call a, part of a dependent clause.
The main verb is I go to the store.
The, the dependent verb is to, in order to buy food, right, in order to buy that food.
So, this is what you use.
This is, this is why you use Optatives and Subjunctives, is because you're not in the
world of simple declarations, simple, either somebody's doing something or being.
That's the indicative.
What we have now for verbs is you can attach a different ending to that stem, and you can
come up with a Subjunctive or an Optative.
Let's start with the Optative.
This is a Present Optative, and the endings are oimi, ois, oi, oimen, oite, oien.
Pretty straightforward.
If you get oi, you're in the Optative, in the Present Optative, oi.
Notice this is the same, similar endings.
It's just vowels are changing here.
Well, what about the Arist Optative?
You've got two tenses of the Optative and the Subjunctive that I want you to learn.
You're going to learn the Present, which is, here's the Present Optative, and then you're
going to learn the Arist Optative, and why is that?
Because when you're using the Optative and Subjunctive, you need to pay attention to
aspect.
Aspect is everything.
Remember, the verb has an aspect to it.
It's got a tense, and it's got an aspect.
It's got a time that it reflects, whether it's the Present, the Future, or the Past.
It's also got an aspect.
How do you do?
What is the aspect of the verb, just by way of reminding you?
That is whether an action is being done continuously, whether it's a simple action, or whether
it's an action that's already completed, that's the perfect aspect.
I have gone to the Store.
Right now in the Present, I'm in a state of having gone to the Store.
It's already completed.
I already went there.
It's over.
Aspect is important, and with the Optative and the Subjunctive, you reflect aspect through
the Present and the Arist, and that Arist is that single action, that simple event they
call it, whereas the Present is a continuous, progressive event, right?
Love it.
It can be something that's habitual, something you always do, or you always do that.
I know, because it works.
Okay, now what about the Arist?
Did I put the Arist Optative in there?
Let me show you the Arist Optative.
It's an oi.
Yeah, give me that one.
It's maybe that one.
Here's the Arist Optative.
It's an oi in the Present.
What is it in the Arist?
It's an oi.
Look at how the vowel changes.
Remember I told you, the vowels are just tuning the words, right?
Here it's happening again.
We're going into the Arist, and Arist is heavy on the Alpha.
We saw that with our regular third principle part, that Arist.
We saw it's ending, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah.
Heavy on the Alpha.
Well, it's the same thing with the Optative.
Oi, we've got to include the yoda, too.
So the oi becomes I, I-me, I-se, I, I-man, I-ta, I-an.
And those are the standard endings.
And there's three.
Look at the second person, singular, third person, singular, and third person.
Plurals, see the aeos, an aeon.
Those are alternate, you know, those are endings that you may also see that happen to be.
It's just a different ending.
Look what happened.
We're playing with the vowels.
Look how it's, ice becomes aeos, aeos.
What are we doing?
We're really playing with the vowels, right?
I becomes aean, okay, fine, fine, fine, fine, fine.
I-an becomes aean, all right, all right.
That's the Arist Optative.
Now there was one more.
I want to give you the subjunctives.
And the subjunctives are on one chart.
It's probably there, probably there.
The subjunctives, you're going to have a present subjunctive again and an aris subjunctive.
That present subjunctive is going to be based on the first principal part.
That aris subjunctive is going to be based on the third principal part.
And what are their endings?
O, A, C, A, O, M, A to O, C. Now you're lucky.
What is this going on in front of you?
It's just the same endings.
Remember the present indicative endings, O, A, C, A, O, M, A, T, O, C. These are the same
endings only the vowels have been lengthened.
So we get omega for the first person singular, lengthened vowel.
It's the second person singular, A, C, A to Yoda, Sigma, A to Yoda, Sigma.
Make sure you see the Yoda subscript, A to Yoda, Sigma.
Instead of Epsilon, Yoda, Sigma, it's A to Yoda, Sigma.
So I tell all my students, the real mark of the subjunctive is that lengthened vowel that
you're going to see in the ending, O, A, C, A, O, M, A to O, C. Look at how Omen with
an omicron changes to Omen with an omega in the subjunctive.
Lengthening of the vowel, for some reason, in their minds, with that shorter form of
the vowel, you're doing things concretely.
With a lengthened vowel, you're getting into a imaginary world because none of this stuff
in the subjunctive is real, right?
It's not a simple declaration.
It's a possibility.
It's a potentiality.
Let's go to the store is not we go to the store, right?
Let's go to the store, right?
Now you're outside of the indicative mood.
So that's what's going on.
You lengthen those vowels, and all of a sudden you're in La La Land.
You're in the world of possibilities, conditionals.
Oh, if we had done something, we would have been happy, right?
Some kind of conditional.
It's a fake world.
Perfect.
Okay.
Give me now these sentences.
I want to run over some sentences.
But that is the grammar, all the grammar from first, second, and third units.
And I want to give you the first couple of exercises, and I just want to go through them
like I would go through them with you if I were tutoring you personally.
I would first, I would have you read it in Greek.
I would have you read it just like that.
So be practicing so that you can read out the Greek.
And then I would say, okay, give me a translation.
Give me a translation.
The people will sacrifice to the gods on the roads in order that they may stop the war.
Okay.
Now, what's going on with that sentence?
The first verb, the verb of the main clause is theuse.
It's a third person singular future active indicative.
It's future.
Future.
All right.
Where's the subject?
The people.
The people.
The people will sacrifice.
Then you get this date of Tois Theos.
Who are they going to sacrifice to?
To the gods.
And where are they going to sacrifice?
You get a prepositional phrase.
Entais Hodois on the roads.
On the roads.
Right.
They've got little shrines.
Little shrines to Mercury, and he's got a phallus sitting there telling you where
which direction to go.
Right.
Let's make an offering here.
I say we burn some down.
Definitely.
And what happens?
You get a result clause at the end of this.
Hina.
Hina as you read, right?
Because you're reading these units.
Hina is with, indicates a purpose clause.
Purpose clause.
In order that, in order that what?
In order that they may stop, pausosin.
The war.
That's a subjunctive.
Look at that pausosin.
That's a subjunctive.
What kind of subjunctive is that?
If you know the principle parts, the first principle part is pow-wo.
So the root is pow.
Does that what we have here?
No, we have paus plus the ending osin, the subjunctive ending osin, third person plural.
So what is the paus?
Oh, that's the third principle part of pow-wo, pow-wo, pow-so, ed-pow-so.
That is an hei-ist, right?
It's an hei-ist root.
It doesn't have an augment on it.
None of the subjunctives in the hei-ist will have the augments, right?
Why?
Because they're subjunctive, bro.
That's the way it is.
Okay.
Pausosin.
Pausosin.
You only give augments to indicative modes.
Come on, man.
Pausosin.
Right?
Pausosin.
In order that, they may stop.
Now let's get a little bit nerdy and say, what kind of verb is your main verb, thuse?
We said it's a present, present tense, right?
Third person singular, present, active, indicative.
What kind of verb is it?
Because it's the present tense, it's a primary verb.
Your present, your future, and your perfect are all primary verbs.
Your imperfect, your hei-ist, and your plu-perfect are all secondary verbs.
You'll notice the secondary verbs all have epsilon augments.
Now why am I telling you that?
Because these are two families, primary and secondary.
And when you have a verb in your main clause that is primary tense, your purpose clause
following it must have a subjunctive.
When you have a verb in the main clause that is a secondary verb, an imperfect, an hei-ist,
or a plu-perfect, your verb in your dependent purpose clause must be opt-ative.
It has to be in the opt-ative mood.
So you use subjunctives with present, future, or perfect, and you use opt-ative following
imperfect, hei-ist, and plu-perfect.
Primary and secondary verbs.
They call that establishing primary sequence and secondary sequence.
Why?
Because classical philologists are nerds, right, and they have to have some kind of official
language that pushes their science along.
Okay, so that is the first sentence.
If you're going to analyze that sentence, I want you to see you've got a main clause
and you've got a purpose clause that is a dependent clause following it.
It depends upon what came before it.
It hangs on what came before it, right?
Okay, good, fantastic.
Look at number two.
We've put our purpose clause up front, ho-st-on, pol-am-on, pa-o-sin, right?
You see that ho-st, ho-sin, henna, work the same way in a purpose clause.
They just both mean in order, in order to, or in order that, right?
So we've put our purpose clause up front.
In order that, where's our, where's our main clause, ho-demos, thais-the-ois, thue?
What's our main verb?
Thue, it's a present active indicative third person, singular.
He, she, or it, sacrifices.
Where's our subject, ho-demos, that's in the nominative, it's got to be the subject.
The people sacrifice thais-the-ois to the gods who have vaginas.
Because you're feminine, divinities.
See the article, thais, remember I told you, theos is a word that can be masculine or feminine.
The concept of God, I know that when you say God, you think, dude, right?
The oldest uses of theos are feminine.
They, you said God to them and they thought, this is the lady that gives you birth.
Isn't that glorious?
Imagine if you worshiped a God that was your mother, seriously, right?
And not only that, but just like Oedipus found out, she is sexy, yeah, she is sexy mama.
Who, what are you going to do?
What are you going to do?
It's going to change the way you look at people.
It's going to change the respect that you have for people and people that you don't
respect.
It's going to give you more respect for those people.
Stop being a dumb misogynist.
It's only because your religion is modest that you're a misogynist.
Oh God, it takes so long.
The people sacrificed to the gods, in order that Paul was sinned, they might stop ton
polym on the war.
Excuse me, did I say it might?
I meant may.
And why did I mean may?
Because I should be using the right sequence.
What is my main verb, thue, it's a present.
I'm in primary sequence.
I've got to have, what do I have to have?
I have to have a subjunctive following primary sequence.
And I'm going to translate that subjunctive as may, in order that they may stop the war.
Good.
Give me the next set.
I'm going to go through these quick and I want you to do this so you can play it back
to yourself.
And you know, if you haven't done these yet, or if you have, you can correct them this
way too, this way too.
But look at number three.
It's reading Greek.
Angelus epimpsan exagoras hoixenoi hopos lucienten erenen.
Where's our main clause here?
Let's look for verbs.
Do you see any verbs?
I see epimpsan right up front.
Okay.
That's a nice indicative looking verb.
That looks like an heiress third person plural, indicative, active to me.
It does.
It does.
Okay.
I'm just going to translate my verb then, my main verb epimpsan.
They sent.
They sent.
Now, okay.
Let me keep reading.
Is there any, are there any subjects here for the they?
Yeah.
There are.
Hoixenoi.
The strangers.
That is in the nominative case.
It's got to be the sub, the they of the verb.
The strangers sent Angelus messengers where they send them exagoras out of the agorah.
Now we get our purpose clause, hopos, because guess what, henahos and hopos all mean in
a purpose clause in order that.
So what are the, why the strangers send these messengers out of the agorah in order that
they, lucient, what is that?
That is an heirest, optative, heirest, optative.
Why is it optative?
Because in a purpose clause, if the main verb is in the secondary, is the secondary verb
or in secondary sequence, and is this one, yeah, because what is it?
What is it?
Epimpsan.
It's an heirest.
That's secondary.
So we're going to have to have the optative and we're going to translate it as in order
that they might, not that they may, but in order that they might.
As soon as you start talking about something in the past, you're going to have to switch
from may to might.
Good.
That's, isn't that nice teaching, teaching ourselves proper English too.
That's nice.
Okay.
So they sent those messengers out of the marketplace, right?
The strangers did in order that they might dissolve the peace, in order that they might
break the peace.
Good.
Look at number four.
Now, this is essentially the same, look what we've got up front.
We've got the same direct object on Gelus, those messengers, and then Epimpsan.
What is that?
That's an imperfect.
That's an imperfect.
And we know it's first person singular or third person plural.
So we can try both, right?
Let's try third person plural.
They sent messengers, petty, tame, nascent around the island, hopos, in order that may
loita, in order that they, excuse me, oita, oimen oita, oimi oiseoi, oimen oita oien.
Which one is that?
That's second person plural, in order that you might not destroy the peace, in order
that you plural, you all might not destroy the peace.
Good.
Do you see how that's working?
Their sentence is talking to itself.
And when you have dependent clauses, they're going to be talking to the main clause and
saying, oh wait, the main clause is all the way in the past.
So I'm going to shift to that same region and I'm going to turn myself into an optative.
And I'm going to say in order that you might not that you may.
Good.
Look at number five.
Again, we can put the purpose clause right up front, henna luselman, right?
In order that we may destroy, we, here, release, let's try release here.
In order that we may release Homer, pimpam facin, oh, what is that?
It's a third person plural, perfect.
They have sent gifts, right?
They have sent gifts in order that we may release Homer and you say, wait a minute,
they have sent, that sounds like it's in the past, it's not.
They have sent is in the present.
Right now, at this point in time, they are in a state of having sent.
They already sent it.
What we're talking about the present, right?
The perfect tense is actually referring to present time.
So is the future.
You're going to be surprised.
So is the future.
The future is just a possibility.
It's that which has not yet come to pass, but possibly will, right?
It's kind of a weird way.
It's that which is about to be, you see, they look at the future.
They call the future in Greek, the, that which is mellow or melissin, that which is about
to happen, right?
Constantly you are, if you're referring to the future, you are in a state of referring
to what is about, right?
What is about to happen?
What is potentially there that can happen?
That's where you are, right?
But that's a present time.
You're just in the present there.
There is no future, right?
They said the futures never actually happens.
That's why it's the future.
If it actually happened, it wouldn't be the future.
Do you understand?
Oh, love it.
Love it.
Okay.
Let's get one more couple of sets of exercises.
Love doing this.
Yep.
Give me the next one.
This is numbers eight, nine and 10.
I just want you to see.
I'm going to read it to you real quick.
Tos, men, and I want you to notice there's a men here and a death that follows it near
the end of the first line.
Second to last word, death.
In Greek, when you, you don't really translate the men and the death.
The men is there telling you, I've got one thing on this side and the death is telling
you and I've got another thing on this side.
The Greeks, ancient Greeks love to make constant comparisons and contrast.
They love to contrast and compare, right?
On the one hand.
So that's why in English, we usually translate this on the one hand, something happens.
On the other hand, something else happens.
On the one hand, men, on the other hand, death, right?
So what does he say here?
On the one hand, the gods did not guard the eyes of Homer, okay?
On the one hand, the gods didn't guard the eyes of Homer.
On the other hand, right?
They have well guarded the books of Homer, which are about the virtue of people, right?
About human virtue, yeah.
So on the one hand, they didn't guard his eyes, which is a terrible joke because Homer
was supposedly blind, right?
So on the one hand, they didn't guard his eyes.
On the other hand, right, they very well have, have, have guarded his, his work, his actual
works, his songs, right?
And we've got another men and dead number nine.
On the one hand, what?
Ele luke san, ele luke san, yeah.
On the one hand, they, what, what are we going to do?
Well, how are we going to do this?
Ele luke san, what is that?
Is that from the, well, what verb is that from?
Luo, let me see.
Luo, Luso, Elusa.
Oh, look, it's got a leluka, right?
Plus, and it's augmented, right?
So on the one hand, they had dissolved the peace by means of some kind of speech or word,
right?
Logoi.
On the other hand, they did not do it, ooh, it's just got the negative.
They didn't do it, ergoi, indeed.
In word, in spirit, they did it, but indeed, they didn't.
Do you see how that men and the dead is working?
And the dead, you can just put the dead there and it's assumed that you're going to be using
this very same verb, the very same verb.
Look at that beautiful, beautiful, beautiful, blue perfect of Luo, ele luke san, third person
plural.
They had released, right?
They had.
Okay, look at number 10.
Now, I wanted to give you this one because this is a question.
It's a question.
And what is the word that indicates it's a question?
Ara.
Do you translate ara?
No.
Ara is just telling you, oh, I'm a question.
Now can you ask a question without having ara in Greek?
Yes.
Yes, you can, right?
And you'll always, you'll never be uncertain about this thanks to the editors, right?
This isn't in the original ancient Greek, but thanks to the Byzantine editors, we get
things like the semicolon for the question mark.
So see the semicolon at the end of that sentence, that's a question mark.
And it's because some stinky Byzantine grammarian monk who's undergirding stink because he
never washed them, you know, because they didn't know, Byzantine monks always stink.
You have to understand that.
Why do you think they go out in the desert?
Right?
Okay, anyway.
Right, you thought it was a mental thing.
No.
Ara grapses pente biblia periton toisteois susion, henna, there's our Purpose Clause,
henna dora para tus deus pimpomen, right, it's a question, right?
So grapses, grapses, what is that?
That's our verb, that's our verb, main clause.
And what is it?
It's from grafo grapso.
It's a future from the second principle part, second person singular.
Will you write pente biblia, five books, periton susion, about the sacrifices, toisteois,
to the gods, henna, in order that, now jump to your verb in order that what, pimpomen.
Pimpomen, what do we get there?
We get a present subjunctive, a present subjunctive, first person plural, present subjunctive.
Why do we get a present subjunctive?
Because our aspect is continuous, right?
And we have to have a subjunctive because our main verb grapses is a primary verb.
It's in primary sequence, right?
So following a future, we're going to need a subjunctive, and we're going to translate
it in order that somebody may, not might, in order that they may, good, fantastic, think
of it this way, might, present, I mean, excuse me, may, present or future, might, past, think
of it that way, okay, good, good, good, good.
Now when we get to the independent subjunctives or subjunctives of potential, we're going
to get, there'll be a little bit confusion there because we're going to translate a verb
as both may and might.
It's going to get a little confusing, a little confusing, okay, good.
Did I do that whole thing?
Will you write five books about the sacrifices to the gods in order that we may send gifts
to the gods?
Yeah, are you going to do that question?
All right, the rest of your sentences, you feel free to work through those, but what
I want for next week is for everybody who's in on you, which there's over 500 people doing
the language, looking at the language now, for, for you people, what I want you to do
is to read the review.
I want you to try the review.
There are some sentences in there.
Don't fill out anything, but the sentences, I want you to go to the sentences.
They look like exercises, they are, and I want you to try to do those exercises.
Next week, when we get together, I will have half time for you just a little bit of review,
and then we're going to take the exam, we're going to take the exam, it'll take us a little
bit longer, but it's well worth it, and you can sit there and watch me do it, and you
can bounce off and give yourself an approximate grade.
Right?
Now, if you and I were doing that in class together, I would grade you.
That's what I do.
Right?
So anyway, but that's how we're going to do it here at this format with Omenu.
So Aussies who want that night time, it'll be your night time, your evening, and it'll
be on Thursdays.
Aussies who want that, please send me an email with just a brief sentence or two about yourself
and about you want to be able to be involved in a small classroom, because that's what
we've got with Epsilon, fantastic.
I love the teaching, and I love the fact that people are hungry for this, and I'm totally
overwhelmed by your tons and tons of email about how something has awakened in you.
Something has awakened, and there's some kind of dope that you now absolutely must smoke
to find the universe.
I love that, and I love people who are reaching out for the people who are talking about bad
things in the world, and made this and that happen, and the cursings, and the people who
are, you're dead.
I love the comments.
Oh, enjoy hell, idiot.
I love those comments, right?
Keep that coming too, because that fuels me.
I love it.
Absolutely love it.
Thank you for putting up with so much time tonight.
We broke a record.
This is the longest one ever.
I want to thank you to all the 501s who stayed here, who stayed here and hung in there.
You're amazing, and I want you to know it's a privilege and an honor to be with you.
Thank you, and Hail Satan.
Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
