Drankin' whiskey, when that whiskey's burnin'
Do my veins, indian girls crazy and the scots men
Once they'll bash out the brain
Of an English man, don't know why
Got a little mixed up in the hills of Carolina
You see, you've got your sellin' and you got your
Drankin' whiskey, oh yeah
Drankin' whiskey, oh yeah
Welcome back to Satanic Initiation
It's great to have you tonight
We have a fantastic lineup for you
What we're going to have going on is
I'm just going to come clean with you
And I'm going to bring you my sources
And these are a couple of people that you haven't seen
And she probably don't know
But we're getting access to them
That ship to go right back to that purple
People have been saying, remind me about the purple
Yeah, there's a good reason for that
Tonight it all comes together at our point
At our apex
And we will bring forward that birthing mother
Love this, love this
This is the bond of necessity, welcome
Music
You know, as I get ready to take us on a trip
We're throwing the ship into gear
We're setting it for a very sacred time and place
We're going back to that Mithraic Initiation
We're standing there with that girl
And we're going to see
We're going to see what becomes of her
In the process of this great mystery initiation
Remember, these are the things that
Paul the apostle didn't want you to read
These are the things that Paul didn't want
He had no taste for this, right?
He had no taste
We're going to be looking at some drugs tonight
We're going to be looking at some sexual activity
Because we're going back into the cult
We're going to see these things historically
Throw the ship in gear
In order to put your mind into the place
That we really need to go to
I want you to be thinking about the vocalizations
That are happening
If you and I are sitting here from our throne
We can see everything, right?
From the throne, we're looking at this initiation
We need to hear some of the voices
We need to hear some of what is being sung in the back
We need to hear the hallelujah
Did you know that term hallelujah is stolen?
It's a stolen term
Yes, it is, it comes from this initiation
You're going to see it
For those of you who can smell Bacchus
Feel that in the air
A little bit of Bacchus in the air, right?
Of course, of course
Because we honor the muses
And how a group of people can possibly figure out
Anything without knowing the language of the people they study
That's beyond me, it's beyond me
I just want to give a shout out
To the people working on linear A
As a student of Emmett Bennett
Yeah, too slow, too slow
Get your act together
Every one of your grad students should be cracking that thing
That's what you guys should be working on
Sorry, that was the unfortunate necessity
I was asking the watchers and they were like
Well, that's why we go there, right?
It's because you're not going to be able to enter into that place with Eve
Unless you come to your dimension
I was like, well, I get it, I see the draw
I see the draw, I do
Let's go right there
Now, if you're somebody great once said
I don't remember who it was
But somebody great once said
A religion that does not have a mother god
Is a destructive religion
And I thought about that as I made it up
And I thought, it's consistent with what I've seen
Yes, fantastic, tonight
I want you to hear the mother goddess
Sit on that throne, I want you to hear
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear necessity
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to
hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I want you to hear a nankhe
I didn't we were going to finish with this last time, but I just want you to see ego. Amy
Sum planos on that third line down
Who men asked there? I am the wandering star with you that the line that follows this is see gay see gay silence
Silence and it has little logos in
parentheses because this is a direction
Remember we've brought our daughter
Here and she is being initiated. So what is this initiation about for our daughter? What happens?
She's being instructed
She's being instructed. Remember he told us you'll see the drugs that are at the end, right?
You're gonna have to know how to use those
Right and this is what you'll do in re2. So it gives her the logos
Here is the logos and
What does she bring?
What does she bring? I am the wandering star
with you
This is what she is supposed to say
to the powers that be the seven
chiecto bathos on a lamp on
And from the depths
I shine again
This is what that girl is being
initiated into
She is the wandering star
And from the depths she shines again
She brings back that light. She brings back that radiance
Right, it's no wonder the
Luciferians
and all the
bringers of dawn
Are involved in a in a cult ritual like this in a mystery like this
it's it's
The language is all there. All we have to do is look at the language. It's really quite lazy of us, right?
Our evidence is sitting there. Nobody wants it. They want to look at googly eyes
Come on
Come on
Crack that is anybody listening crack that thing
Crack that language
Love it. There's several. Anyway, there's Cypriot stuff too. Anyway, um, let's go
Back to the second text now. Let's just step on ahead to the second test
I'm going to bring you
Something new and I want you to see it. I want you to see it right now. This is it right here. Okay. Take it down
They've seen it now. I'm going to put it back up in a minute
But I want you to know what this is
You guys have been patient
And you have been waiting for the goods and you to yum. Yum. Yum. Take them right this
Tonight, this is powerful. Okay. Here's the source. Here's the source
This is
Porphyrygenitus
Yeah, porphyrygenitus
Constantine porphyrygenitus
What is he like the seventh? Yeah, who cares? Look at his last name his epithet. It's not a name
It's an epithet
He's Constantine born in purple
What?
Yeah
He has this manual put together, right? Can you believe nobody reads this stuff?
It's amazing. You know why because people have called it a farming manual and who wants to read a farming manual, right?
I read cato that bored me to death
Right, it's just got lots of good information. But you know, it's not on the
It's not on the hip list. Nobody's gonna make a
Make a movie out of this thing, right?
So I want to take you to that tonight and I just want to read you a
passage about a woman
and
I want you to see a few terms that are associated with this cult thing that we're watching on full
Before us this mystery religion
Yes, I fear for them
I fear that I know I shouldn't I shouldn't but I fear for them
I'm gonna read this to you. It's a little unwieldy. This was uh, nobody has this by the way
I have not seen an English translation of this thing, right? This is the English. This is the geoponica. There we go
This is the geoponica and it is
It is perhaps the best kept secret. Why because it's composed of a whole
Plenitude of authors
From antiquity that we don't any we don't have sources for any longer
Right, this is where we find them quoted in this thing
And they're all huge into drugs
There's so much drugs and medicine and magic in this thing. It's
It's it's unbelievable. It's unbelievable. Okay, let me get set up here. Give me a second
I
Want to read to you from the geoponica
And i'm just gonna let chewie keep that up for a second so people can see the greek to start with
But I want you to start feeding them images. Okay. I want you to start feeding them images as we go so we can all keep up
Okay, Ion to antos x haste o nomadze taigegonen
This section is an inquiry into violet
The violet yes that you know, um flowering plants
Yes, we're looking at different
Plants that can well give you certain things that can do certain things, you know things to interact with
The violet
Derives its name from her
from
io
or io
Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice? And why is that because zeus was in love with io?
And being in love
He coupled he formed a pair
He formed a pair
And in an attempt
To prevent
Hera
From seeing to prevent any sort of proof against him
He created an alteration of nature itself
Yes, what did he do? How did he make this alteration?
When he was spotted
He hid
What was produced?
He disguised it. Yes, he disguised it and he changed a woman
Into a cow
Yeah
And that transformation
That was an alteration of phoenix
I'm working directly with that nature
Right. He's in that garden
It's why eve is there, right? It's that cry that shout
There he is changing. Look at him. He's what what is he doing? He's changing her
For those of you who are my greek students it uses anthropon
Right, but it uses a
Definite article that's feminine before it right. We haven't seen that but you know what that means
Right, that's nice. He made a human who was female into a cow. Fantastic
Fantastic in the earth
honored
The beloved of god
The earth honored the beloved of god
Yes
that
Power
The earth
Put into making that flower
That is the portion that is the nemesis
Of that cow
The nemesis that cows nemesis
What is that?
What is that the thing that was produced they called that which comes from her and through her
We are initiating
Into the mystery
Through what comes from her and through her
Yeah, does that sound familiar to anyone if you've been
living in a mystery religion
if you've been
living in the
Perhaps if it's not an active one, you know, because they don't do the same things they used to right
This thing that you're watching this performance that you're watching this initiation
They don't they don't do this anymore
Right, well as soon as as soon as we see the depths
To which you have to go
And come back from and turn around and come back from you know that we don't produce the mystery that ours is a
is just
Like an egg shell casing of what once used to be a mystery that egg broke
Was in a space capsule
Right fantastic. This is necessity
This is necessity. Do you remember?
Do you remember what we did with our daughter?
What did we do with our daughter in the initiation?
We gave her that violet bring up the violet bring up the violet
Alice call up Alice perfect eon violet. Look at this. Isn't this pretty?
Oh, it's so pretty
It also equals clean on wait a minute. What yeah, the identifications of plants is kind of
It's a herky-jerky. It's not a precise science and sometimes you get multiple IDs on one name
Look at the at the very bottom though that last line. Look at that diagram
Oh, look at that. You didn't know that was on front. Did you?
You didn't know that was on front of the violet right at the tip of the violet. There is a diagram
We on we on the Athenian Greeks say eon right the
Mycenians who first had this
drug called it we on
We on
Isn't that nice?
What is that what happens when you get the we on you cry a we are
Isn't that nice?
They'll call you elios if you do that. Look
There goes elios
Right gorgeous gorgeous. She is
Transforming
Into the star
Into the star our initiation is bringing dawn
You've been smelling let me let me just I need to say this you've been smelling
a god
Who performs testicular tanning? That's what you've been smelling
Right, this is not
His mystery
This is not his mystery
This is the mystery
of
The bringing of dawn of the restoration of that light if you don't believe me, we'll keep reading
I love this. Let's look at some more though. Let's spend some more time with alice. This is alice from
uh alice in wonderland, right? Yes, please
Find look at what clean on is why the by the way. What is this? What is this violet? It's also a lily
And look at ramanu marama too a kind of choral dance. Look, they're doing the crinon
They're doing the crinon
They're doing the dance
next alice
Look, what is yos? What is yos? Look, it's the same route. It's the same route as yon
So what does it mean? Well surprise surprise? It means arrow
It means arrow
arrow
Like a bow and arrow arrow. Yes, like a bow and arrow arrow
Fantastic. What is where's that taking us? Okay. Remember you're at this ceremony
So when when you're seeing them come out doing their dancing
They're violet do the violet and they're doing it in front of you
Don't be surprised if some of them sitting around you
Have bows because this is a bow arrow poison using culture
These are the people who were building the civilization that was so far ahead that was set so far behind
When the mystery was corrupted
By multiple people which we have multiple arrest warrants for I know some of you you've been talking about jesus's
Transdimensional arrest warrant
Right, we've got one it turns out update
We've got one now for moses
Yeah, we've got one now for moses. Yeah
We're we're gonna have to bring them all in right? This is a big case
Under some special trans dimensional law that to be honest, I really don't understand
You got to get yourself a trans dimensional lawyer for that, right?
Yeah
But
It's our duty as investigators to find out why why the link
What grave what gave the grand jury?
The inclination to you know, bring it to bring it, you know, you know bring them in
And our charges right bring the charges
Moses has got it all over him
Right, okay, we got to start with jesus. We'll work our way back to moses. I think if we can make the case
For jesus, it'll be you know, you know how it is once one crime boss goes down. They're all gonna go down, right?
It's just
You know, I I can't even but thank maybe Muhammad will too, you know, and there's there's gotta be a
You know, is there a connection?
Yeah
We'll have to bring in more specialists on that end right either that or you people are gonna have to start learning arabic
Because i'm not talking to you about the Quran if you can't read arabic
Yeah, no and like classical arabic well
Right, and i'm not gonna do it because i'm too lazy
I'm too lazy. No, i'm totally filled up with what i've got to do right greek and latin for me are sufficient
Let's go back. Let's go back to the next
We've got more definitions. Yeah, look at this eos here same root poison as of serpents
Notice it's the venom of a mad dog. You always put mad dogs with lunatics
Right mad dogs and lunatics have the same responses
This is the place that we want to enter when we bring the bucket cry
You mean they were getting crazy
With their oracular religion. Yeah
They were hearing the words of god
Isn't that cool?
theos
That that lover of theos. How dare you by the way, how dare you? You know who you were who said it?
How dare you think that some commoner
Some commoner
Can't be a receptacle for vision. How dare you
How dare you that's the attitude that I expect from academics?
That's why they're completely useless why you're you're not listening to evidence
You're not looking at things like we're looking at you just you're sitting there listening to stupid ideas
Right, i'm so mad. I've got to be careful what I do from now on
right because I'm
You know, I'm just pretty soon. I'm gonna have had enough. You know what I mean?
Everybody knows when you get to that point and you're just like, okay. Okay. Tell this person who they are
show them
Pull out that mirror and show them who they are and you can do that with these ancient texts
You don't think the ancient Greeks and Romans use drugs?
I can show you
The application of drugs
via
Lildo
I can show you that we can we can relish that
We can look at it and say what kind of medicine freakish medicine is this
Right, you have to look into your own place into your own soul. This bachic revelry is all about her
Right, it all comes back to aphrodite
Bacchus always leads to aphrodite those Arabs
Those Arabs that the Romans were talking about those guys loved it
They loved Dionysus. They loved aphrodite
That they had all the drugs. They're the ones, you know with the drugs. They have the drug connections
Yeah
Comes right out of those desert species
whether they're snakes
whether they're
mur
Oh
Resins resins that make the place smell, right? That's one of the things we're missing from this. You guys have to
What are the smells? We're gonna we have to fill that in somebody brought that up the other day. It was a good point
Music composer of some sort good point. What about the smells?
nice, okay, so I'm gonna keep translating this and so
Yeah, so the earth honored her right she honored the lover of of god
She honored that virgin
Right, you remember simile and Dionysus
Right that oracular power is always honoring
To that beloved of
Zeus
right
Those lovers who are transformed by Zeus
All right, they who have their natures transform
All right, they are
Oracular that's the reason we're here
Right, it's the reason we're here that couple of lady Babylon is the oracular cop
right
By the way, I need to tell I forgot to tell this. I'm sorry. I'm getting forgetful of my old age
When the abomination
Which one the abomination of desolation
When the abomination of desolation is sitting in the inter sanctuary, then you should run
Yeah, the abomination of desolation. What is the abomination of desolation every guess every guess is wrong
But the linguistic proof is clear
It's the abomination of
Desolation
When you have that mystery cup
You are able to enter into that
Jesus went out he said a month into the desert
Why to be tried
By the devil
To be tried by the devil
Do you know what we have to bring if we want to bring lady Babylon back?
We have to bring back the edimosis
Yes, when that is in the temple
Run
Yeah, fantastic
fantastic
Vish I if I'm gonna say one thing every episode until it comes out the translation comes out
I'm gonna keep doing it, but you are better than those linear A people. I know that I'm a
I study with Bennett. I see talent. I know talent
Let's do it. This is the new museum by the way guys. We're taking it away
We're kicking down the doors and we're taking everything away from give us those texts
Give us that Septuagint
Bible you are not worthy to guard this thing anymore not worthy yet out
We're gonna kick them down. We're gonna kick down Jung's door
Right, we step on into Jung's study. Just imagine it going right into a study. Oh my goodness and just
Taking the place apart one stupid bust of at a time
right
Taking that book
Taking that red book and saying as he sits on the floor sucking his thumb
This belongs to us now
This red book belongs to us when you see the abomination
of the edimosis
In the inner chamber of the temple
Then you'll know
Then you'll know the dawn is coming
The dawn is coming. Yeah, it's gorgeous. Let me let us let's finish our passage. Let's finish our violet passage
Joey, you can just throw up now. Now's the time to hypnotize. Let's throw up our images. Yeah
Worked on these images. This is beautiful
Yeah, so it's called that which comes from her and through her and this is clear
Um, this is made clear by the colors
By the colors of the kora to his
But wait, what?
By the colors of the kora, which one and he switches
He switches into a doric eolic form
To match the title of a specific goddess. This is the kora
Ananke
Ananke
Ananke
necessity
You see that gamma that's there and that's why I go ahead and add the gamma to the way that I took the g to the way I spell it
Yes, Ananke. Who was Ananke? Ananke emerged
From the primordial
beginning
She emerged in a snakey form that snakey form the orphics call her fannies
Most worship her as address
Steya
Address Steya. She
Is the one that you cannot get past
Right, you must face her. You must face address Steya. You must face necessity and
For those of you who are keeping track with the drugs and the rights
This is this is a good straight up
midwifery
Yeah, and gynecology, especially when we're talking about the lightning
right and bringing that that
new birth
New birth. Why didn't anybody get that? I thought that would have been obvious, but nobody gets that
This is great. Can we see the clip one more time? I need to I know we're running over
but I need to reset us and then we're going to finish this passage and
see the the
The culmination for the initiate go
Oh
Oh
Oh
Oh
For just like the Parthenos in our initiation
Just like the Parthenos
In the same way that she
Grows urgent
with the reddening
Need
With a reddening passion
So does the cow
Burn in its purple
So does the cow
Become porphyry
Says our sore our Byzantine source
So does she become you're looking at the you're looking at that transformation of nature
fantastic and
She as she undergoes this transformation
shines
She shines
And it is clear from this that the transformation is a transformation
of a girl
into a star
Of a girl into a star
Yeah, yeah
four
Here's the kicker. Are you ready? Here comes that
Here comes that eastern wisdom
That's embedded within the magi
Right? Here comes that eastern
that colky and black sea
horse
writing poison using wisdom
Here it is. Are you ready?
Four
In whatever the child shines
The woman
Becomes
Yeah, yeah, that's nice, isn't it?
In those things that
Are resplendent that shine forth
That
Is the formation of the woman goonie
Right doesn't use the word for just, you know person
All right, it uses the worm the word for
that person
Being the one who enters that cry
That birthing cry right the mother is able to reach into death
This is why
You could never have a single god. This is why the atheists like the christians and the jews and the muslims
This is why they is atheists because they don't follow the gods. They don't follow nature
And they don't follow justice
So, you know when you've abandoned the gods as an atheist and you only have one moron
as your leader
Who cannot reach into death and bring from death life?
You're in a bad you're in a bad circus
You're in something that needs to be castrated and dc
You're in something that needs to be castrated. That's how
The
ma the maas
Creates
The vision of the physics surrounding them
When you are in that world
When you're in that world
The world of that
motherless
Existence
You're off track
And you're on the way to destruction
It's it's how it is and for that we get the
Desolation
We have to bring the desolation for that. It's just the it's the cycle. It's necessity
Right. It's necessity. So bringing back lady babel on people ask and I've had some people comment about
some
Some harry magicians. I don't know if they're harry or not, but
um, some famous ones
you know
Allister so-and-so and you know, whatever
um
Please people
The source that we're drinking from is pure and clean. I wouldn't send you out to a
to a urine polluted stream and say drink
Drink, this is the water of life
No
If you want the water of life, you have to go to that pure spring
And you you have to honor that virgin
If you are willing
To put your daughter
Into a place
Where she can become the star
And that woman can be born
With everything that that woman is that bringer of life
Yeah, if you're able to do that if you're able to put
um
An emphasis and energy into that process, you know, you're a pagan
And you've broken out of the world of that of that
man
Now remember though for those of you want to give jovo a hard time
and
say well, you know
You know, he's you know, he didn't want them to mess up. It was just you know
Their fault remember it's the first lie that's told by him
Because when you take that fruit
Your eyes are opened. You don't die
Right the death is part of it
Right. He's being deceptive
Death is part of it. You enter death, but they bring you back
And when you come back
Your eyes you're opened
And you are naked
Yeah, do you know the greatest thing the devil did
The greatest thing the devil did was telling eve. No, you can you'll live
Right. He just doesn't want you to have the knowledge
That's all he just doesn't want you to know that to be aware of that
Right. That is what you end up with with the jovo
You or a jesus
You end up with somebody who needs to bend
He needs to bend the way
pagans don't go there because the nature corrects them
The nature keeps them. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm pushing it. It's uh, let's go. We need some there's some more great stuff here
You guys are gonna love this. I'm giving you giving you my sources
No, I want to go up to right about here. Let's go check here
Okay, I want you to just look at the range of the eos right arrow poison rust remember
It's that rust on crops as well
So there's a lot of you know, this root is used all over the place. Look at this eoplocomos. Isn't that nice?
Right that that has the violet hair man. That's what that says the violet hair
Right hair do right. Oh, it's it's gross
Melanothrix
That black hair that black hair, right and who has this who wears this dye by the way, this is a dye, right?
Who who uses these dyes?
the priestesses
Priestesses do isn't that nice like the medusae. Did you know the medusae had died here? No you do now
Gorgeous, this is gorgeous. You can't you can't get more beauty than this. Sometimes. I think this should be illegal
Eoplocomos. Yeah, who who who is Eoplocomos? Look at this the moiseae
Yeah, who are they? They're the muses
They're the muses. Oh, that's nice
What about your fossa?
What about your fossa? Well, that's just the eoplus the fos
Right. Oh, and who is that? That's the name of calciope
And who is calciope as we say her in english?
Right. Who is she? She is the sister
Slash relative slash medea. Yeah, she's associated with medea
and
Why is this coming back to medea because all of the purple you cannot take any pathway with the purple
Without coming right back to medea as the source the linguistic source for those of you who want to say
Yay, it's a it's a communion that rose in the east. No. Yeah. Yay. It's a communion that right rose over here
You know and you get racist arguments and people looking for Aryans. You get snazis running around
You know what I mean, and they never know what they're doing
They never know what they're doing
Because they don't master the text
They don't master the text
Let's bring it back up. Well, notice that it was ferrecities
Yeah, look, notice it's ferrecities who told us this. Who is the who is calciope?
She's the one with that powerful expression of the eos
Remember ferrecities is the dude who get this top Pythagoras
Everything you know or thank you know about orphism is coming through that
Ferrecities and he is the one who is bringing us back to medea
Yeah, fantastic, right? This is this is
Oh god, we love it next. Let's go to the next. Um, who's here's another one with the eos through eoh
Look at this. She's the toxaphore. Look at that first word. She's the toxaphore. She's the one who carries that poison bow
Yeah, that poison bow. She's the one who pours out the poison
Hey use heusa
Yeah, oh god. She's that terrible one, right? She's that frightful one. She's the one with the
You know that'll
Kill you with her bolts
Yeah, eohaea the poison pour. That's how I like to translate that
Um, go to the next one
Yeah, and who is eopsaphos? We couldn't do Artemis, right without doing apollo. They're twins
Right, we're talking about medical cults here that we're bringing our daughters to so here is um
They tell us look it's the it's the eopsiphos. This is actually from the psaphos the
pebble or stone
It's also a thing that's used in
Throwing dice, right coming up with sortace
It's a it's a randomizer and remember according to the atrascans
There is no chance, right? Touche is chance
is
Addrastea is necessity
Yeah, think about that for a minute some I know a lot of you're really smart and educated and
Um
I know that a lot of you are professionals
Um, those of you who are mathematicians think about that. There's no random
Uh concept of randomization
In the atrascan system that supports remember one of these great atrascan queens one of these great terrenian
Queens who's probably from this pilascian
Lion is ruling these people named kirke and we call one of our drugs after her
Right, we call our drug the cercean
Right, have you taken the cercean? Well, you know
You got to do this and I got to do that, right?
So um that purple is coming through these people and those people those atrascans are saying um
There is no such thing as chance mathematically. It doesn't exist
Yeah, a non-k exists. You say what what can we put in the place of chance a non-k
And a non-k is ordered, which is why I think the guys at mit are finding order amidst the chaos
That's what they're doing. Do you believe they're doing that right now? It's exciting. It's exciting. Those nerds are hilarious
She got it. You got to give those nerds over to aphrodite. They'll do anything. Um, let's go down to the next one
They think they're
They think they're with it. Anyway, look what look what happens to her. This is what we say happens to the
to
The violet right in her transformation. She turns into
This irritation this provocation and notice how the victorians very cleverly
Gave us the last definition at the bottom and said perverseness
perverseness
So is this thing? Yeah, it's about flushing with blood
Yeah, it's about becoming
irate
And you think well, that's weird. Don't have you ever seen a cow? I get to tell my cow story now
I'm going to go ahead and tell it. I don't care. I'm getting old
um
My cow story is I was taking care of cows of dairy right doing milking and stuff and one night one of them chased me down and like
violently assaulted me and I'm lucky to get away. I'm lucky to get away with
um
With my health, but she was you know, I don't blame her because
She was an estrus
And she had been sitting out. She had been sitting out in this one area for
A long time you take the cows that are an estrus in you and you quarrel you put them in a different pen, right?
And um, so we had them out because the you have to breed them and they know you're coming
Right, they know you're going to be out there to breed them when they're an estrus
So she was an estrus and she got through her crown came over to me and knocked me over and pushed me up against the wall
and I was
But um, she did it out of love
And
When she was doing it, I'll never forget the bellowing I'll never forget that earthy
Growning
Passionate compulsion
to mating
To aphrodite everything leads to that aphrodite
We can't have the world
Christianity is the enemy
Of aphrodite they do not worship the gods
They are atheists
They do not worship the gods
That is why you do not consider sexuality
To be a divine act
Well, I don't know maybe
Maybe some people
Recognize their sexual divinity
Um, but in antiquity
We're talking about a ritual
In which sexuality plays a part
So and it's impossible for us to get there
Without the drugs that we're harvesting within the sexual practices
You cannot have early Christianity went hand in hand with sex
Right with hand in hand with sex. We know that their agape feasts were being broken up for having mothers and sons have sex together
Um, we know that people were filleting the male member who was the leader of the
Theosos they would have called it on the greek side. Yeah
Coven if you'd like christian coven, right?
And we know that the ophites
Because they carried the symbol of the serpent. We know that they were um, were told by the christians who
Who didn't want to accept them the heresiologists who established an orthodoxy. We know that they ate semen
Yeah, right, right. So when a christian
fillets
His pastor
Um, it it is after they've invited everybody into the agape feast
And then they say it's a it's probably a ritual expression, but it says they kick over the lamps
No, I don't know if they actually kick stuff over
But they turn everything off. They turn the light sources off and um, then because they've stripped by that point
They just mingle and the problem was the romans were saying, whoa, whoa, whoa, you know, your orgies are fine
We've got orgies all over the place. We don't we're not concerned about your orgy
Right, it's the fact that you're not discriminating man. This is not you can't have an orgy with it
mother and a son
Right, that's just no, no, you just can't do that
So, you know, hey, it was because the christians were born within the roman empire
They had to follow by the roman empire's cultural norms. That stuff was better off. You're better off an asian minor
Right, you can get away with that
Right, you get away with that in parts of greece as well
You know, but you can't you might argue thracians could get away with it, right
But
You're not going to get away with it in rome. So when the romans are breaking up the christian assemblies
Where the mothers and the sons are having sex together, you know, um
You know, it's just a hops giving a jump for us to go to alexandria and arrest all the pirates right and origins like
I gotta cut my penis off, right?
Just doing that and all that kind of stuff
Yeah, it's a crazy time. Okay. Um, I want to pull us back
I'm meant to get there through the violet right and I need to show us a couple more wait
I I haven't hit my climax yet for the
For the top bring that bring bring that up more great flood us
Oh, look, this is tiny. So I'm gonna have to look really close
So I don't mean to be like weird or anything as if you know, because I'm pretty normal guy
But I'm gonna go ahead and read this look
Oh, just you're gonna have to look into my eyes. I don't care. I have by the way in my eyes. I have
I have dead people
Look at no look at my eyes. Can you see the can you see the universe? They used to take me in for
At the hospital to show
The medical students because I have what looks like a solar system
in both of my
Eyes, right and it's a corneal thing. It's a corneal thing, right?
But um, anyway, so I'm a little bit self-conscious. I'm sorry. That's why I don't like to get up close. Um, my students used to
Say don't look into his eyes
Can you believe that they loves me though? Okay, and at these most look at this. What is this thing that she enters into?
um, that
Violet enters into right that io enters into it's the erythesmos, right that which is called wea
This is that fly. This is that gadfly. It's the mania afrodision
And you hear the afrodision, you know afrodite is in there
This is the mania of the aphrodisiacs
And you just discovered a whole new religion
You just discovered a whole new religion
We have aphrodisiacs that will induce a miraculous mania
Yeah, the priestesses of aphrodite
Are the ones that are dealing them and using them and that's why
That's why it's suspicious when these fairy drugs end up and marry Magdalene's hands
Yeah, the popartons are donor
Um, fantastic. What else does it cause? It causes a porosus. This is a porosus this thing
Entering this phase. It's a heating. It's a burning
It is lissa
It is lissa. Do you know what lissa is?
lissa is mania
Lissa is what you get when a rabid dog bites you
You get that mania
You get that mania. Do you want to put this on you can put this mania on
Imagine yourself
Under the influence of the mania inducing aphrodisiacs
Yeah, you're gonna come out naked, but your eyes are gonna be open
Your eyes are gonna be more open than they've ever been
This is what joeva doesn't want you to have
But
You can have it
I'll give it to you
You know, he left me in charge
I'm not going to keep you from it
All right
Remember the devil is the best looking of everyone
Right and the smartest
So I don't know
Maybe joeva, you know, he's just thick brah joe is just thick
You know, he's kind of gangsterous and he's just thick and he's got a problem with women
Right, it's a sacrifice not to mention this human sacrifice stuff
What, you know, it's just not it just doesn't cut it brah
Your prophets. Oh god, right? They got no mother
They got no mother
When the abomination of desolation sits in that inner space, you'll know run. Let's see. Okay. This is gorgeous last
Um, yeah, and it has the oh it has a form of wings
Nobody ever believes me until they actually see the evidence but remember I told you guys the stuff makes you fly
Right
This is where she's going. This is where the kora
Is going
She's flying
Wow
Wow
And it causes the
cattle
That are struck by it. It causes them to skill toss and they skill toss and
What is skill toss those of you or my students who are reading the bakai right now?
Right, and you'll say oh, wait a minute that verb is used
That's what the bakin does the bakin enters that. What does it mean to skill?
It means to jump around the frolic
Like a young animal in spring
frolic
This is what the drug calls you to do. Okay, imagine
group of a hundred women
Under the influence of this drug with weapons
Yeah
Imagine what unholy beauty
Could we possibly
Could we possibly bring
That would outshine that right as the girl shines
So becomes the woman
All right, what does that mean? What does that mean? You'd never hear a christian today?
Evangelical catholic. I don't care. You would never hear a christian pondering as goes
The shining child as the child shines through
The woman is born
Right, it's gorgeous
And it's all based on that fruit and bringing her out bringing out eve people say can you reproduce the mysteries?
You could
But we're all scientists here. We don't care about your beliefs
We're scientists and if you could reproduce the mystery you'd have to end up with the same product
You'd have to end up with eve
all right
Can we bring back eve isn't that the funny that that is what the question comes to in history
And we can stand back when you say no to jon avarque
We can say no your visions are from the devil
right
We can stifle it you can stifle aphrodite all you want. She'll break through
That's why all your preachers and priests are in sex scandals
Right because this is satan's realm and aphrodite is in charge brah
Aphrodite is in charge. You don't get I know I just want to talk to you to the evangelical women who are out there
right
You cannot overcome necessity
You will want
You will want to express the voice of eve you want to
Yeah, why?
Because it's the beauty of nature, man
It's the beauty of nature
These people that we're reading you these texts from
These people understand it and they know the drug connection. So next time some scholar comes to you and starts
Moaning about drugs and if we shouldn't be studying this or this is not important or I don't see any drugs
Right open up your eyes people. Look at the sources
This is something that we have completely abandoned as p as a
As a group who writes our own histories. This is this is completely out of it. Yeah
Yeah, love it
Thank you porphyry genitus for bringing us
The purple I think that was all the I think that was all the you know, I had a couple other
Uh, that's okay. That's the last
Let me just make sure look just to end on this to oyster is to ek my now to ek my know is to be out of your mind
Right. So there is a power
that is feminine
That has the ability
to bring you
out of your mind
to submerge you in death
and to bring you back
into a resurrected
newborn state
and that power is
the savior
Thank you for coming tonight. I'll I'll run off to
Late run off to the lady Babylon site that we're going to and thank you very much for attending
Um
Thank you for your time and hail Satan
