I let that liquor drown my days Now I'm taking my last ride
I paid the highest price you can pay And I'm on my way to Potter's Field
Potter's Grave is where I'll be To rest until the end of time
For all eternity
Welcome back to Lady Babylon, Wednesday Night Bible Study.
Tonight we have an excellent, excellent lineup.
I think you're going to, particularly those of you who are in the cult,
those of you who are visiting, sit back and relax.
For those of you who have ears to hear, tonight is going to go especially deep.
That's why I want to give a shout out.
I want to give a shout out to the people working on the dragon tongue.
I'm looking for fish.
We have at the end of Lady Babylon, you may not have realized it yet,
but we have at the end the dragon tongue itself, which to this day has never been deciphered.
The word that is shown to you at the outro is the word for dragon.
I welcome, I welcome your interest in the cult.
Tonight I'm going to take you somewhere where you cannot go.
This is a text.
These are the words tonight that you will not see anywhere else.
This is a buried esoteric text and tonight we're jumping into a deep, deep, deep, deep.
Tonight on Lady Babylon.
I want to begin tonight by letting you know that we will be having a couple of short videos
full of all the imagery that is Orphic that will build your initiation.
For those of you who are asking, I'm behind.
I don't know what is this and that.
It's great, isn't it, to be able to build an association where only those of us with ears to hear can hear.
That's fantastic.
That is a true mystery.
That is how the mysteries function.
Tonight I want us to put on our Orphic solution caps.
I want you to know, I want you to be sitting on that throne.
You have the hysteria and your possession.
You are sitting on that throne because tonight we're going in.
We're going in deep.
And we're going to teach ourselves something about the Bible.
We will kick around a few people in the meantime.
Don't worry.
There's plenty of people to kick around.
But it's four minutes after.
Let's get rolling.
Tonight I want you to start with the images that you receive from Dracula's poet.
Let's look at Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
get some feedback. I just want to bring you one tonight. This is a great comment.
Thank you very much for sending it and everybody who sends, love them. I love them. Bring them
comment. I do get to them. Bring it up Chewie. This is fantastic. This is from Subhan Allah
InshaAllah. Good. Yeah. Yeah. It's a lady Babylon. You will pay for this.
Yes. And my response. Thank you. Hail Satan. Fantastic. I just want to say thank you.
I am sure InshaAllah that I will indeed pay for this. But before I do, I just want to let the
audience know the audience who was not members of the brotherhood of frustration.
But for those of you who have ears to hear the funny thing that we don't reckon,
those 72 virgins, I shouldn't tell them this. I don't know how you can let me tell them. Okay,
I'll tell them this. Those 72 virgins, those are the ones into whose faces you threw acid.
Isn't that interesting? That is what the Greeks call erinus. Fantastic. Fantastic. Hail Satan.
It's such a good thing. It's such a handsome guy rules this prison. You know what I mean? I love it.
I love it. Okay. I'm going to conjure up. I've been distracting you and I'm going to conjure
up now the text. I'm going to put up your text in Greek. And for those of you who are watching
the Medea and commenting, thank you. I appreciate it. I want you to realize that 80% of that,
90% of that is just me translating, direct up. I don't transition into telling you,
I'm just translating, but I do. And I've got the Greek right in front of me. It's my own styles,
my own thing. So where's it coming from? I told you, Diodorus. Here, I'm going to do that again
tonight. But tonight, I'm going to have to dig down because tonight is one that no classicist
is going to want to talk to you about. Maybe. Maybe one or two. Maybe one or two.
But let's get it out there. Are you going to find an English translation of this thing?
Hopefully not. You couldn't. When I was the last time I looked, you couldn't, but it wouldn't
surprise me if there's one now. We don't need one. Let's go right into it. And I want to tell
you, we're going right into a cult for those of you who are hanging in with the initiation.
Tonight, we're going into the cult. And I want to bring it to you. We've seen a lot of the
intercourse. We've been to the orgies. We've seen a lot of the, a lot of the medicated dildos,
and we've seen a lot of the, just to sum up for those of you who are coming in halfway through
the movie. You know, we've seen a lot of drugs. We've seen a lot of drugs. And I keep talking to
you about the snake victims. I know the toxicon. Remember the one that makes you have an erection,
what they call today, priapism or satiriasis. You can worship the God, Priapis. You can.
You can worship the God, Dionysus. You can take on to yourself the form of a satir.
You and I, blessed congregation, you and I have seen the text. We saw the doctor write about it.
We saw the doctor tell us what it does to one's mind. Right. We're looking for that real communion.
This is not your hippie grandfather's weed, right? We're looking for that real communion. I want to
see him doing it. I want to see him doing that communion. Let's go in there tonight. That's
where we're going. We're going deep in. Give me that first text up there. Okay. I'm going to read
this to you guys, and I'm just going to translate it to you, but I want you to know there were some
pirates in the first, you know, up above. Lacedace, we got some pirates. Remember your pirates?
That's what Jesus said. He wasn't for people who don't know. When Jesus was arrested with a naked
boy in a public park at 4 a.m., screaming, I am not a pirate. He was using that term, lacedace.
Yes. It's a term for child trafficker. Child trafficker. We've got the traffickers here. Do
you remember Dionysus? Did you guys see in the video? Did you see Dionysus getting abducted by
those pirates? Those pirates. They tried. They tried, but Dionysus defeated them. Fantastic.
Fantastic. Let's go back to the text and let me start translating this bad boy.
Look, if anyone wants to know those things that bring death,
this treatise will teach them. Okay. Okay. It will show them the sort of things mortals
contrive in the depths of their minds, the sort of things, the spirits of the air
that float around them shriek, the sort of things they do when they cry,
emitting an unseen song in the ears of men. These are the prophets of the sky,
the prophets of great Zeus. They hold their youth. Whoever wants, I'll show you how to stop that
whirring arrow that comes from the snake that hugs the ground. I'll show you how to quench the
eos of that serpent, that crawler. I will give to you the light of Selene falling into the communion.
Okay. What do you think? There's quite a creepy bunch of cult stuff going on there.
Wow. Let's just, you know, in a second here, we'll pull up some of the words there and see what
kind of words and why am I doing this on a Bible study? I am prepping you. This is all planned
out, right? I'm prepping you so that you too can see Joseph and his dividing cup and you say,
don't make fun of evangelicals. Where's my wit? Evangelicals. Don't take it. Just take it.
Take it. Here's what's coming. I know. I know. No, no, no, no. I know you love Joseph.
I know you do. I know you do. Here we go. Are you ready? That feels so good.
Bring up the next. I want to just look at some of this vocabulary. What are these things that
floating around us, right? These are the things that walk in darkness. Wait a minute. You mean,
leave that up there. The ancient Greeks have a word for entities that walk in darkness.
Yes, they do. And like I told you, she's erinous, right? The air traversing. Who is one of these
air traversers who walks in darkness? Who is she? Bad news, everyone. The creator is a woman.
Yes. All your phallic oppression. Yeah. Yeah. Good luck with her.
This is Selene, we're talking about. This is Selene. Isn't this beautiful? So that's
what the air wanderers are. You thought that they were a category of mythological beings. No,
we're talking about the moon. Fantastic. The moon. Selene. Let's go back to the next word that
I've got here. Take a look at this one, guys. This is from the text. Who are these people?
These are the prophets, right? These are the prophets. And I just wanted you to see
some of the words that they're using for this, right? Some of the specific words. Go to that next
one. Yeah, look at this one. This is the verb that it's all coming from, right? This is not Hebrew.
Do you mean the Hebrew prophets are not prophets? Did you just hear what you said?
The Hebrew prophets. I'll have you know, my friends, that prophet is a Greek word.
It is a Greek concept. It is a Greek root that is used all over the place. Yes. Yes,
this is the origin. Remember, classical Hebrew vocabulary. Tiny, tiny, tiny. Ancient Greek vocabulary.
Very big. Very big. Here's one of those biggies, right? Let's go to it. Go to it. Yeah, check out
this one. How do I get that? Yeah, here's what we're looking for. Here's what we do, people.
For those of you outside the cult, cover your eyes. In that right, in that ritual,
when we bring that orgiastic high through the drugs, through the drugs and the sexual intercourse,
when we're doing that, we are drawing down the moon, the power of the moon. What does that mean?
All the any classes you meet can tell you that. Drawing down the moon, drawing down the moon.
All the esoteric fruit cakes on the planet can tell you that drawing down the moon, drawing down
the moon. They don't know what it means to draw down the moon because it tells us here,
you draw down the moon within the holey, within the venom. Bring up that holey.
Bring up that holey again. Look at this. Look at this bile. Look at this bile. Look at number two,
the ink of the cuttlefish. Wait a minute. What? That's in McCander's, Alexa Pharmaca.
That's a drug manual. Fantastic. And what else is it? It's the, wait, look at the Hebrew. Okay,
we just said Hebrew, Greek. Here's a perfect example. Right. Here it is. I don't take,
I don't take pleasure in this. I don't take pleasure in this. It's very, but it's my duty
to reality, to, you know, be straight up with it. Okay. So look at number three with the Hebrew,
a poisonous plant, various, various they call him locker poppy.
A poisonous plant. Do you see what state the classical Hebrew language is in? It is so infantile.
It is so nonspecific that you don't know if the plant that you've got is an opium poppy for
pain killing or hemlock to kill you. Julian, Julian, the apostate. Come here, Julian. Come here.
Tell the folks. What was your position? Emperor, emperor, Roman emperor. Fantastic. And Julian,
what did you tell the people about the Galileans, the people we don't now call Christians?
What? What they, they, they're making a mistake with the Hebrew.
The, there's no show me what Julian says, show me the math. Show me
your works of literature on medicine. He says that show me they have none. They have none.
What happened? What happened? It's not their people. And we've, we've suffered because of the
wake of the attempt to establish Hebrew is the earliest tax. It's not, it's not,
it's not. Let's keep going. Do you see that? Go back to that definition. Do you see that? They,
they, the language itself can't even distinguish between two plants within a
pharmacopeia that for the Greeks has thousands of species. Now, there is a secret in translation.
It's unidirectional.
Can only go one way. Yeah. You can only go one way. You cannot take a text and translate it
with a higher degree of technicality than it possessed. And that's what we've got going on.
In your Bible, in your Bible, the Greek lever level of technological achievement is higher.
It can't be a translation. For example, in Noah's Ark, I just wanted to bring up Noah's Ark. Somebody
asked me about Noah's Ark. In Noah's Ark, when the building instructions are given,
in the Greek, it talks about the first and the second floor of the structure that's being
built. And the technical term is the area that is roofed. First floor, second floor. Fantastic.
What does the Hebrew say for that? The, it says the first and the second without any floor, without
any architectural reference. What? It's just first and second, whereas the Greek uses two terms
that are architectural terms with the word first and second in them with the floors. The people
who back translated the Hebrew obviously couldn't handle the technical advancement of the Greek.
That is not what translators do. Translators do not dump technicality into a text.
You can't make a text more technical than you got it. It doesn't work that way. It's dishonest
and it's propagandistic. So here we go. I'm sorry. Let's get back. Let's get to the exciting stuff
here. I'm going to go back to that one more time to the holey. I just want to show people the holey
one more time. Notice the bottom people here. Look at that. Look at number four, serpents venom.
Oh, okay. Now I know where I am. I'm at the serpent venom. Oh, wait a minute. Number five,
a bitter drink in Matthew when he's sitting on the cross. Remember people who haven't caught up.
Jesus is standing on the cross. Ah, he's screaming above the inside. I'm so thirsty.
He's sobbing. He starts screaming out magic terms, stuff like that, right before he croaks.
They offer him a drink that's got this in it. Okay. Fantastic. That's what we've got in our text.
We've got that substance in there. Oh, this is wonderful. This is wonderful. Let me just go
back and make sure that we covered everything from that initial text. I just want to make sure.
I want you guys to notice on line 46, those of you who are in Greek, I want you to start looking
for the Orphic terms, auto-kerns, vox, orphica. Do you see on line 46?
You see that? That is that cry to shout Iacus. To shout Iacus. And what does it do when you
cry Iacus? It makes a song that is invisible, makes a song that is invisible. Who is doing such things?
Line 47, Oeonoi. Those are, take it down. Those are those prophets of the air. Those prophets
of the air. For those of you with ears to hear, the prophets of the air that tell us the signs.
Are you ready? I'm going to show those to you because I want you to be Joseph. I want you to
just bury your face. Just open up his coat of color. Just bury your face in the middle of his
chest. That's what I want. Joseph, I want you to smell him tonight. Are you ready? Are you ready?
Okay, let's go to the next text that I've got. Boom. Yep. We're going to look at Selene just
briefly. I just want you to see. Here's a hymn to Selene. And I want you to notice, yes, she is that
great goddess queen. She is that one who admits the lie that defines Selene. The one with the
horns of the bull, right? The one who was in the air, that night walking meanie, right? She is that
nocturnal one. Look at the very last line on this page. Telesphore. Telesphore. What is it?
What is it? Telesphore. Yeah, let's see what we can make of that. Telesphoros is one who brings
fulfillment. It's used by Homer. Thanks, right? Able to fulfill or fulfill or accomplish. Okay,
okay. Having the management or ordering. Look at the very bottom. Look, it's even a deity,
worshiped in company, right? With a Sclepias and Hygia and the Telesphore fans out there
are roaring. Telesphoros. You mean Selene is Telesphoros. Yes, yes, yes. Did you notice in the
hymn that said she was both male and female? Said she was both male and female. And now we just
clipped off every monotheist in the group. We just clipped them off like pinching off something.
Yes, we just clipped them off. Fantastic. Yeah, show that. Go ahead. Do you throw that up there?
Oh, here. You know what? It's time to bring back Dracula's poet. Now, try to drink in the blood of
Dracula.
Did you see the initiates there? It's that light that we want to bring to them.
I am that light. That's what she says. I am that light. And if you have a boy,
do you smell Jesus with his naked boy? Because I do. If you have a boy, you can find that light.
We're going to suck that light right out of that serpent venom. Do you know why they call the
Satanists those who follow the serpent? Yeah, yeah, because it turns out it turns out that chemical
ride is such a biological necessity that you have to open up your eyes. You have to open up your eyes.
If you don't open up your eyes, you're not born again. You're not born again.
Yeah, we bring you the power of Selene. We bring you that in the form of that creature that hugs
the ground, that hugs the ground for you evangelicals out there. Is this Satanic? Yes, yes, definitely is.
And do you know why? Do you know why? Because we're talking about the mother of Cronus.
That's what we're talking about. We're talking about the mother, the light bringer. We're talking
about she who sits next to Dawn. Yes, fantastic. That milky breast that Jesus produces, that milk
flowing breast that he's holding within his fancy apocalyptic brazier. Yeah, you didn't thank you new
cult. Now you're learning some cult. Wait a minute, what? Yeah, it's the milk, brother. It's the milk.
There's a way to say things so that people don't get the word, right? I'm not saying these things so
you can understand. No, I have certain people I want. And those people, I'll open their ears.
Yeah, yeah. So it's through the moon. Isn't that creepy culty? I love it. It's gorgeous.
Let's bring it, bring back, go back to the, to Selene, please. Go to, wait, what was that one?
Yeah, go to the second one. And here's the end of the hymn. By the way, that hymn that we did in
the clip, it wasn't, it wasn't, the first one was Dracula's pot. The second one was attributed to
the Orphics. Yeah, fantastic. And the first thing we looked at tonight was attributed to them as well.
You mean we've got the poison in there in those texts? Yes, we do. So in classes, this
turned to me and say, huh, huh, well, you just don't have sources. No, I do. You people just
don't read them. That's the problem. And that's why I'm bringing this to you so that you can have it.
Isn't that nice? Let's go to the next one. I love this. Here's more goodies
for everyone. Let's spread it around. Look at the end of this hymn.
Look at the end of this hymn. Look what he calls her on the end of the first line.
Pansofecure. Pansofecure. Yeah, it turns out she is the all wise Cora.
Isn't that gorgeous? Their mysteries always come back to that Cora. It's absolutely gorgeous.
And what does she do? She's saving people. She's saving people there at the bottom, right?
Yeah, this is the Sotera. We're right in the cult. We're right in the cult. Okay. Now, what about
Joseph? You promised me Joseph, right? I promise to get intimate. Come on, Joseph. Where'd you go?
No, don't pull that regal stuff. I don't care who you worked for. Get over here. Get over here. Let's
go to the next text here. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah. Here, Moses. Hang on. Just sit down, Joseph.
Moses, get up here. Are you guys ready for this? I'm going to show you Moses, the real one.
There aren't going to be any prostitutes of the daughters of Israel. There's not going to be
anybody pornating for many of the sons of Israel. And there's not going to be a telesphorus among
the daughters of Israel. And there's not going to be a telescomenos among the sons of Israel. Take
it down. You see Jehovah, who never gets photographed because he's ugly, right? It devils all over the
place. Everybody knows devil best looking, right? Everybody knows that devil best looking. Jehovah,
he don't take my picture, right? He doesn't do so good in camera. Yeah, yeah. You say. There,
I catch you. Everybody knows God is invisible. Yes, yes. Shine a light on him though. And his
ugliness comes out. His ugliness. Love it. Love it. Love it. Love it. Okay, let's go to the,
let's go to the next text. We're bringing him in. Bring him in. Where's the, right after that one?
Yeah, I just want to see Genesis 44.45. Yeah. So what has happened here? Joseph is explained to
us. Take it down. Joseph explained to us what happened. You were tricking your brothers. Yeah.
And you put a, your cup of divination into one of them sacks so that they would call it and he'd
send a guard out. He'd go, Hey, you stole the cup. And they come back and we don't have a big party.
Right. Remember that? Your cup of divination. What is that? What is that? Let's bring up that
text again. Yeah. Watch this. Watch. Isn't this the thing, you know, the cup in which my Lord drinks?
Yeah. He himself works his divination. Look at those words on that second line.
Oh, God. Love it. Oh, you need. So what does that mean? Please tell me. Take it down. Please
tell me that's a translation of the Hebrew. No, it's not. No, it's not. It's highly technical
terminology that if you look at what the Hebrew turns it into, the classical Hebrew turns it
into, it's a shame. It's a shame and it's laughable. It's so bad. It's laughable. Yeah. This is a
terrible. Anybody who's reading a Bible today, if it says Bible on the cover and you are reading
the Old Testament, you're reading garbage, garbage, garbage. Anybody who is reading
a Hebrew based Old Testament is reading a terrible translation of a fantastic, perfectly
normal Greek work. Yeah. Isn't that weird? Isn't that weird? Think about it for a moment. You're
living in a lie where people go to churches and synagogues. People of the book go to go to mosques
and they think what they are reading is based upon what was really written. It's not. It's a
terrible translation of a very sophisticated and beautiful group of Greek works. Fantastic.
And that's where all this terminology is coming from. It's where it's all coming from. Let's go
down to the next one, please. Yeah. So what happens? Here's the entire passage. He says,
isn't this the cup? The one that I have my things. Notice on the first line that I divine from,
this will be transit. Notice on the first line, we notice that the cup at the end of the sentence
It's silver. Take it down. Why does he have a silver cup that is using the same Greek root
that we just saw in the Orphic text that we had, that we translated right at the top?
Because it's part of the technology. That is how you divine in a silver container.
You look into it and what do you need? What do you need to perform Lacanomancy under the moonlight?
You need the holy. You need the holy of that viper. You need that holy and you need a boy.
Okay. You need the holy and you need the boy. So when Jesus is in the garden of Gethsemane
and he's got something that's making him thirsty just like the holy does and he's got that naked kid
with him, he's in a position for us to say in court that he was a diviner. Yeah. He was a diviner.
This guy is historically a diviner and meets all the criteria for it. He's using all the right
titles. He's got all the right drugs. He's got the naked kid. For those of you who didn't know,
Jesus was with a naked kid, Mark 14, 51, 52. Please write to me and tell me what that naked kid was
doing there. Yeah. Fantastic. Fantastic. Let's go. Let's go to the, we've got a couple more. I've got
a couple goodies for you. I'm just going to throw in. Go ahead because I think they're important.
Look at this. Look at this. The silver cup. That's nothing. It's just I wanted you to notice
it's silver. Why are they using the silver cups, by the way? Some of you witches can tell me.
Yeah. Silver cup. Mirror, mirror on the wall, baby. Capture that moonlight. Love it. Somebody
passed the snake. Let's go to the next one. Fantastic. Oh, I just thought this was funny.
I was looking at the Hebrew just to see what kind of nonsense they would pull. Look,
this word signifies to view tentatively, to learn by a tent of observation or experience,
to hiss, to whisper, to divine, to encamp. It's also a serpent. It's also the hissing.
It's also some brass, copper, and iron. Does anybody see what's going on? If you study a language,
take it down. It's embarrassing. If you study a dead language, like I do, and you get a word that
is a shotgun of completely different concepts, you know they're not using a root. Yeah, because those
roots bind you to certain meanings. You can't just slap together what somebody's doing when they do
that. Is they're trying to say this word was also used for this word and also used for this word
and also used in other words, we don't know. Yeah, and when you get back translations of the Greek,
this is what they're forced to do. They were forced. Those orthodox rabbis were forced to do this.
You've got to take what you've got and work with it or else it's not the it's not the language of
God. Yeah, it's sad, sad, but you know, when you they painted themselves into a corner,
I don't think we should feel sorry for people who have betrayed reason. We've got to stay in that
realm of reason. We've got to know, right, because what happens when you betray reason, you start to
believe lies. Next thing you know is you're just living one gigantic lie. Yes, fantastic. Let's
stay true, man. Stay true. Here's a shout out for staying true. Next one.
There we go. I want everybody to look at Bruce Metzger at the bottom of this. I'm going to stop
worrying about those of you who who are under the delusion that Hebrew is the language of the
Old Testament. And I'm just going to show you Bruce Metzger. This is what he said is outstanding
textual critic. There's all sorts of, there's all sorts of people on here, scholars, and I was
going to read all these to you guys about the letter of Aristaeus, which long story short,
is a forgery that was meant to say the world in which we live is one where the original
Hebrew scriptures were translated by the Greeks under Ptolemy Philadelphus. Yeah. And that's not
the case. Not only did Aristaeus never live, but anybody who reads it can recognize right away.
It's just propaganda. It's just a way of taking over a source or an origin and saying that belongs
to us because it's originally in the Hebrew. It's not originally in the Hebrew. So this is what
Metzger says most scholars who have analyzed the letter have concluded the author cannot have been
the man who represented himself to be, but was a Jew who wrote a fictitious account in
order to enhance the importance of the Hebrew scriptures by suggesting that a pagan king
had recognized their significance and therefore arranged for the translation into Greek.
Yeah. What we're trying to do next to what we're trying to do is we're trying to create a world,
no, just go this way. We're trying to create a world where we can justify certain things,
right? And the Christians were perfectly happy to roll with it, right? Because it only buttresses
them. Anybody who is a person of the book, right? I'm talking about those great three religions.
They are based on an historical lie. And I'm saying lie because it was intentional.
It was a misrepresentation of history, a misrepresentation of history. And surely there
is somebody sitting in this audience today, somebody who can say, boy, a lot of bad things
happen when people lie. Yeah, they do. A lot of bad things happen. And if your society doesn't
worship Lady Justice, you're gone. That's it. Let's go. Let's go to that last quote. I want to
pull this up here just to give people, somebody asked me about Armenian stuff. And I came across
this and I thought, this is perfect. It's quite perfect, right? For everybody who has ears to
hear who's watching me now. You know what this says? They call that color Armenian, right?
They call it Armenian. It's just like kalche. It's just like kalche. What? It's just like
kalche. What is kalche? Look at this. The murex purple porfura. Yes, theirs are burning purple.
Fantastic. There's our burning purple. And do you know what root this is following? They'll tell
you here, the guys at Oxford, they didn't know, right? It doesn't appear to be a Greek root.
It doesn't appear to be a Greek root. But we know that the kalche, that burning purple, which is
that thing that brought the Bacchic Empire, that kalche is using the same letters that
Kolkis uses. Huh, the Kolkians. Huh, interesting. Those people in Georgia, modern day Georgia,
with their kingdom. Fantastic. The archaeology is going right back there,
right back there to those cultures on the Black Sea. It's so exciting. Love it, love it, love it.
That burning purple is in everything, people. The Plaskians brought it. The Phoenicians peddled it.
The Kolkians mastered the mystery that used it. And from that, the Bacchic Empire permeated the world.
This is fantastic. You guys have been an outstanding audience tonight. I want to encourage you to
continue sending comments, because I would like to begin increasing my engagement. And I'll start
my increased engagement with my gracious audience, who gives me 44 minutes of their time,
twice a week. I want to say thank you. And in order to say thank you, I would like to start
engaging. So anything that you've got right now, I'm going to look over your comments,
and I'm going to look over the chat. Anything that you've got right now, questions, throw them in
there. Anything that you want to see. Anything that you want to maybe take the ship a little bit
next week somewhere else. If you take it somewhere else, I don't know. You want to go back to the
5th century? I don't know. You've got some sexy stuff back there. Fantastic. But I'd like to increase
the participation, just as my way of saying thank you. To my Greek students,
we don't have that much time before I need a cracked dragon tongue. So remember everybody,
it's on the end of the show and the outro. Come and see the dragon tongue. Help us figure out
what's going on and hail Satan.
