I never meant anything I said, just spittin' it up
Everything I've been fittin' to keep it from eatin' away at me
Never said anything I meant, I never said the letters that I should've said
So it's askin' too much for me all to believe
When I say, never meant nobody knows
When I say, never was the cause for a long
Never knew what I was talkin' about anyway
Welcome back to Lady Babylon, thanks for showing up
I want to let you know that tonight we have the most excellent
We have the most excellent clips
I managed to get an interview with Anastasia from Ukraine
She's been featured on Gnostic Informant
And tonight I'll have a few clips
I'll be using the interview that I did with her
Over the next couple of weeks
Running little clips for you
And it's a real pleasure and an honor to be able to talk to her
I'm going to come away from our conversation today
With real humility and a sense of honor
That I think will impact you as well
Thank you for that, Anastasia, thank you
Tonight we're going to start off with those interviews
And then we're going to move into a very dark and difficult topic
That is the child rape ritual of the early Christian church
Let's begin
Let's roll that first clip
And what I want you to appreciate is the fact that I am not in it
in it, that it is her answers and her voice.
Like a sacrifice you need to understand that you may die, it's possible, and yeah, and
just understand that there are more important things than just your life.
And I guess in the age of like very individualistic kind of like approach to life, it's something
not very common, but in times like this you have to, I guess you have a change of perspective
is the best way to put it, you don't see yourself as such an important thing anymore.
You see the, you know, values such as freedom you talked about, and you know, all of that
is more important.
And I want to do anything I can to, you know, to achieve that dream, that dream of, I guess,
Ukraine, of freedom, independence and dignity, and generations of people in Ukraine before
me died for that.
So they were killed either by Soviet, Russian, you know, Soviet Russians or Russian Empire,
whatever the hell else.
And I don't think I'm any like better than them on my life is more valuable than theirs
because they sacrifice their lives to achieve this.
And I think it's quite fair.
So you can see right away, everyone gets excited because what more could we ask of
the divine Athena, that divine spirit that guards our democracy, that freedom from oppression.
As the more I talk to Anastasia, the more I, by the way, her name is Greek and it means
to rise again or to rise from having fallen.
And I think it's a fantastic metaphor for her, what she's doing.
Her thought, remember her father was killed in a missile strike and she was telling me
about the activities that she does.
I don't want to give too much away, but Anastasia has more courage than I've seen, than I've
seen in my entire 52 years on this planet.
So let me just stand in amazement at the idea that there could be something bigger than
your life.
As an American, I find that hard to believe.
I find it hard to believe that there's anything more important than me.
But here is this maid of Harkiv who is telling me that the war brought her to a place and
her revolution brought her to a place that she understood there's something bigger.
It's only on the field of Mars.
It's only in the grove of Mars that the sacred song of the Virgin is preserved.
There are certain places in time where the spirit is able to indwell, incarnate flesh.
And what you're seeing before you is one of those incarnated.
Yes, by the way, Anastasia is of Greek extraction, but she also has connections to Georgia.
I know I didn't want to tell her that she, her bravery.
We talked about her bravery and courage.
She's very humble and doesn't want to admit it, and then she says something that illustrates
extreme courage and dedication, fearlessness.
So let's run the second clip.
Go ahead.
My father would not leave.
I asked him a couple of times, you know, he wouldn't leave.
And that was his choice.
And I respect that still, despite the fact that he is dead and I would prefer him to
live, obviously.
But yeah, but I think it was his choice to stay.
And I respect that because, you know, I cannot begrudge them that much, him that much.
I stayed, you know, I go to the front lines and risk myself.
So why would I ask other people to, you know, to go to safety than when I don't do it?
You know, I guess, hyped us and encouraged us to continue what we're doing because I
don't want them to die for nothing.
And they would not want to die for nothing.
So we should honor them and their sacrifice and their untimely murder, I guess, is the
word I would say for that and to fight for them as well.
And to, they would say for us, we should continue and we should honor the, you know, the losses
and struggle on, I guess, because nothing would make me, I guess you could say, more
sad than knowing that my father was killed for nothing, you know?
I wanted to be for something, right?
So and that something should be a victory.
When you see how she carries the voice of her ancestors, the dead, she carries the voice
of her father and gives that, gives a place for that voice in this world.
It's absolutely under the most dire circumstances, forging of that psychic diamond, that historical
diamond.
And it's amazing to watch and it's humbling.
And you can see by her speech alone, there's a sacred nature to what is how she meant.
She talks about sacrifice and it's incredible.
You know, I listened to professors for years talk about sacrifice, sacrifice, all sorts
of sacrifices.
Not once did I ever understand what that sacrifice meant until I talked to Anastasia.
I've got one more clip and I want you to, I want you to reflect on a minute yourself.
Look at yourself through her.
It made me feel good because it made me feel like there was some kind of hope.
There was some kind of hope and some kind of beauty in the world.
Go ahead.
I appreciate it.
Yeah.
I think people have shown, I guess, in Ukraine in general, like with interviews, people, I
like work with a couple like YouTubers, journalists who came to Ukraine and they were very, I
guess you could say impressed with the way Ukrainians handle things, the way they talk
and stuff like that.
And I think the way you say the beauty of it, I guess, it does show.
I don't want to be very, I don't know, pretentious, I guess, this is a word, but it's not about
like that.
It's about when you hear people and what they say just comes off as very beautiful in this
ugliness of war, of like invasion, of terror, of torture, of everything that Russia brought
to us.
And despite that, people still smile, people still care for each other, people are standing
with each other and they are caring for animals, for children, for elderly.
And people do try to remain as human as possible.
This is something I personally really care about because I don't want this ugliness
to stain us, I guess.
She doesn't want the ugliness to stain them.
She also talks about the struggles and the change in the mental attitude and under the
rigors of war and death, watching death, the fear and the anxiety of being blown up suddenly.
She talks about the future.
I had to ask her, you know I did, I had to present her as the oracle and I had to reach
in.
She doesn't know that she's got that Scythian, Amazonian queen.
Someday she'll be in her blood.
Someday she'll be the president of Ukraine and you and I will say yes, yes, we know her.
We know her.
These are the types that emerge from history into places like Athens.
These are the types that create for us the freedoms that you and I have been sitting
around all our lifetimes enjoying.
Yeah, yeah, they're the ones who enter into that place, that sacred place where the price
is paid and the sacrifice is made.
As we're talking about the operation of the mystery and tonight I'm going to talk about
the mystery as it operated in early Christianity.
As we talk about that, you think, oh this is just textbook stuff, it's just history
and no, no, no.
People who study history and the muse of history whose name is Cleo.
People who study Cleo understand that the reason that she is there is as a teacher she's to
show you, she's instructing you.
We can learn from people like Anastasia.
We can learn from them.
They can inspire us to have the same democratic power in our own country.
I was ashamed tonight, by the way.
I wanted to ask her this question and I decided not to.
Just because I had reverence for who she was.
And I'm ashamed at our disgusting Donald Trump.
That moron, that murderous fool stood in front of our country and applauded Putin.
He applauded the invasion.
Shame on him.
Shame.
One of those murders is on your hands.
It's on your hands and it's on the hands of every foul human being who would stand up
and give a voice to Putin's murder, vile and disgusting murder and shame.
Shame on the people who allow Putin to continue.
Eternal shame on you all.
I curse you.
The underworld awaits your disgrace.
Shame on you.
Anastasia, thank you tonight for your interview.
I will be playing it over time.
There are jewels in this interview.
Fortunately, I just shut up and let her talk.
And that was, that's what we needed.
So I'll be playing that over and over and I'm excited to and I'm so privileged to let
to have her allow me to do that.
Thank you again, Anastasia.
Thank you again.
And remember, you know, presidency, right?
Wow.
Love it.
Tonight, we're going to do something just a tad bit different.
I've got a script tonight that was written by this individual.
Pull him up.
Yes.
Who is that man?
Who is that man?
It says, doctor.
What is that?
Dil?
No.
Dilman?
Seated in front of an ecstatic follower of Dionysus.
I see that.
I see that this drunken satyr promote weight.
Who's the drunken satyr?
This drunken satyr promotes a conception of the gods that provokes a viscerally negative
response from Christian culture.
It's true.
It's true.
He promotes a visceral response when he had hair and when he doesn't.
He promotes a visceral response, the satyr does.
I can honestly tell you that I have been kicked out of more institutions, schools, and poetry
groups.
My poems weren't that bad.
It was just the wrong audience.
I gave a reading about the Black Virgin, who we'll get to, the Black Virgin, the title
used of Medea.
I gave a reading and got kicked out.
Can you believe that?
I kicked out of a poetry group, was populated by 60 to 80-year-old Midwestern women, and
they didn't like it.
They didn't like my poetry, but that doesn't matter.
I'm going to read you a book, the first chapter of Original Sin.
Let's start.
Exclusive sodomy is the name at the heading.
The sodomizing of young children by the Christian clergy is a practice as old as a Catholic
church itself.
Most people today believe that the gruesome activities of priest pedophiles are an unfortunate
reality of religious hierarchy that promotes celibacy and deters its priests from experiencing
any form of sexual pleasure.
However, child abuse in the church is profoundly institutional.
By the way, I just want to pipe in.
I wrote this.
My editor is a Pulitzer Prize winner.
Another thing that we, every assertion that I make, I make from evidence, textual evidence.
That's what I work with.
And I'll sprinkle these texts within our readings.
But I want you to know that when I make a statement like that, I'm doing so based upon
actual texts.
Okay.
Child abuse is not an accident of church history.
It is an integral foundation component of Christianity.
Ritual child rape performed by Christian priests was very much the result of a cultural war
declared by religious zealots during the first few centuries of the church.
The earliest generations that followed the birth and death of Jesus witnessed incredible
social upheaval on an unparalleled scale.
Europe, North Africa, and parts of Asia all inextricably knotted up in the affairs of
the political behemoth called the Roman Empire.
The unity that so characterized the Roman world facilitated a head-to-head social conflict
of Christians and non-Christians.
And for those of you who have heard the term cultural war, yes, it's the same people.
It's the same people with the signs that say, save the children who have the blood of Putin
on their hands, on their hands.
I was called up by a relative at the beginning of the invasion and was told, hey, we shouldn't
support the Ukrainians because they're all drug users and LGBT supporters.
Yeah, yeah, the blood is on your hands.
It's on your hands.
We stand with Anastasia, that's what we do.
The polytheistic core of classical religion effortlessly adapted itself to encounters
with new divinities from the East.
But the arrival of proselytizing Christian monotheists in the common era was the beginning
of the end for the Roman way of life, the Roman pantheon of gods, despite its inclusive
tendencies quickly succumbed to the demands of the Christian priestly hierarchy that flourished
on the basis of its pronounced exclusivity.
Christian priests did not blend into the classical world.
They were known for their uniqueness.
And I want people to remember the first Christian priest was Jesus Christ.
So the academics who picked their backsides and write publications and make papers that
are absurd and do not help society, those people will tell you, wait, the first priest
did not come along.
I have a degree in religion from Harvard.
Yes, and you still don't read the text, do you?
You still don't read the sources, do you?
Yes.
The early church followers are taking the names used by the mystic gods on the pagan
side.
So there is a viable priesthood and the first bishops are right after.
You think bishops go way back to the beginning.
So yeah, this is good stuff.
Christian priests did not blend into the classical world.
They were known for their uniqueness.
Common members of the early church were secretive and isolated.
Priests were lone intolerant zealots beyond the reach of custom and law.
Priests refused to swear allegiance to the emperor.
Common Christians dropped out of society and became highly secretive.
Mystery and initiations involving the rape of children served to reinforce the church's
efforts to set its members apart from the rest of the general population while rigorously
promoting the not to be questioned authority of the clergy.
The non-christians who lived during the rise of the Christian church claimed they were
witnessing the end of civilization.
So for anybody who tells you, for anybody who tells you that Christianity is the hope,
it's the bringer of democracy, they're lying to you.
They're lying to you.
The world watched its decline with the rise of Christianity.
Let me say that again.
The world watched its decline during the rise of Christianity and wrote about it.
Yeah, the Greeks and Romans might have invented democracy, science and medicine, but their
shared culture eventually resigned itself to defeat.
In the face of the rapidly expanding power of an exclusively male priesthood known for
its novel views of sex, Roman educators, bureaucrats and politicians slowly seeded their cultural
traditions to church dogma.
If you have somebody yelling long enough about people they don't like in school board meetings
and history that they want to burn, by the way Anastasia said that the Putinites, those
who were trying to stamp out their culture and their language, even down to their language,
that they love burning books.
Anytime you see historically a group that burns books or bans books because that's the
same thing.
This group is the one that will eventually try to overthrow the government.
Happens every time.
Every time.
It's machinery.
It's machinery, right?
Information control.
You guys are all super intelligent.
I didn't tell Anastasia how smart my audience is, but you guys, you already know this.
Let's continue on.
The foundation of classical religion was its enthusiastic veneration of beauty.
Unlike the rest of the classical world, the Christians employed general moral definitions
of good and evil that made their followers unique.
The Greeks and Romans believed individual inquiry determined morality.
But for the Christians living anywhere in the empire under the auspices of any ethnic
group, there was one cultural constant.
Jesus was the standard of morality, not nature with a capital N.
Yes, Ignatius, the Bishop of Antioch and student of the Apostle John, was among the earliest
of Christians to establish the concept of, get this, Orthodox language.
Wait a minute.
What?
Yes.
Yes.
In doing so, he helped to limit any form of criticism of the church, a concession that
non-Christian priests would never granted.
The term pagan.
As Orthodox speech and doctrine came to the fore of the ancient stage, Christians began
calling non-Christians pagans.
It was a pejorative term, like our modern hillbilly or redneck, and the word was meant
to describe anyone who refused to follow the Christian Messiah as the source of universal
truth.
Of course, it was arrogantly condescending, but it was primarily a means of isolating
non-Christians as morally distinct from the growing numbers of Christians.
Notice the P word is the equivalence of the N word.
Yeah.
I've seen it in some texts where it was just referencing the fact that these were woodsy,
back woodsy proceedings.
Yeah.
The very heart and nature of the religion of the Roman people, right?
From the countryside.
Yeah.
But the term is used as the N word is used in America.
It is meant to demean in a racial sense to say, I am superior to you.
And of this inclination was born in Christianity, right?
A desire to take the other and to denigrate, to denigrate them.
Yes.
And this becomes very, very cynically dark because the priests take this mentality and
they funnel it into child abuse.
Yes.
Child abuse, 133,000 in Europe from 1950, I think it was.
Yeah.
As Orthodox speech and doctrine came to the fore of the ancient stage, Christians began
calling non-Christians pagans.
It was a pejorative term.
Of course, it was arrogantly condescending.
In the early centuries of the common era, increasingly painted pagans in a negative
more light based on their age, old use of drugs in religious ritual, surprise, surprise.
As you see the anti-drug movement grow in America in the 1980s, where does it come from?
Comes from the same place, Cleo tells us, history tells us, things don't change, right?
Not in 2000 years, maybe in 200,000, not in 2000, good.
The earliest prominent church fathers worked diligently to root out the use of drugs in
their own meetings.
You didn't know that, did you?
You didn't know the first Christians use drugs?
Yes.
In their own meetings and celebrations in order to distinguish themselves from pagan religions
steeped in the use of psychotropic drugs.
The earliest Christian Eucharist, when I found this, I was shocked.
The earliest Christian Eucharist was referred to as, quote, the drug of immortality.
They called their own Eucharist a drug.
But Christian priests were diligently to distinguish their own drug use from that of non-Christians.
And isn't it funny?
You find that Christianity is so full of hypocrisy.
At its root, it is hypocritical.
Yes, like my Christian relatives telling me all Ukrainians are drug users, and that's
why Putin should be able to go in there.
But you know why they say that.
I mean, come here, come a little bit closer to me.
You know why the evangelicals are supporting Putin and have blood on their hands right
now?
Because they have a plan.
He's the Russian bear who's going to come down, gog and may gog this whole thing.
And Jesus can come and kill all of us.
That's the plan.
That's the plan.
When I was in Israel, I discovered right away, I lived there for a year, and I just do an
archeological stuff, and I discovered right away that the common Israeli is secular.
They don't give anything about the religion, right?
They just want to live like the rest of us.
Yeah, yeah, interesting, interesting.
In his letter to the Ephesians, Ignatius, who assumed a title commonly reserved for
important pagan priests, taught that the use of non-Christian drugs was tantamount to the
rejection of orthodoxy.
He said, therefore emerging you, not I, but the love of Jesus Christ, make use only of
Christian food and abstain from that foreign plant, which is heresy.
Yes, yes, it's from a drug that they're abstaining.
Their drug of immortality is just that, right?
It's a substance.
Good.
In the fourth century, thanks to the power of bishops, Roman laws were written to ban
the use of drugs in any sort of cultic practices, you see these in Libanians, under penalty
of execution.
This gave the bishops legal authority to arrest drug-using pagans and seize their property.
Does that sound new?
Think of a scheme where you can bust into somebody's property, smell some drugs and
arrest them and take their property and voila, now you have a place where your bishop can
have a second home.
He can come there and stay there with his virgins.
Yeah, fantastic.
Pagans from drug seizures were directly absorbed by the church.
The pagans viewed this assimilation of public wealth by the church as an injustice and evidence
of the content of the corrupt motives of Christian priests.
Pagans had long suspected that Christianity was a convenient way to get rich.
Listen to this, the pagan philosopher Porphyry, everybody loves Celsus, right?
But Porphyry is fantastic too, just quite a thinker.
In his work against the Christians, he expressed the common sentiment this way, quote, the
words of Christ, I came not to bring peace but a sword, I came to separate a son from
his father.
These words belie the true intentions of the Christians.
They seek riches and glory, far from being friends of the empire, their renegades, waiting
for their chance to secure control.
Yes, waiting for their chance, the very first flag.
When those creeps went in and took a dump in our capital, the very first flag that was
in was the flag of Jesus.
The very first thing those traders did after they pooped was they set a prayer, set a prayer.
Chewie, what's wrong?
Do you like the image of the pooping insurrectionists?
They ought to give them extra time for just the pooping.
Fantastic.
The first Western drug war started in earnest in the third and fourth centuries.
Bishops and priests were its most prominent backers.
As a group, Christian clergy members may have been separated by doctrinal disputes, but
they all shared a desire to advance their own political causes.
Priests didn't care what Romans and Greeks put into their bodies.
They simply wanted to solidify their growing hold on empire, and one of the means of doing
so was to assign legal control over the non-Christian population in a way that assured right social
control.
Fantastic.
Nature wars people, you don't see any use for them?
They do, and they took down Rome.
They took down Rome.
You don't think they can take down America?
Yeah, yeah.
What is Cleo?
Tonight we have Cleo with us, right?
We've got an answer to history here.
Unable to perform their sacraments legally, the pagans went underground.
In the process, members of pagan religions became politically disenfranchised.
And for the first time in history, drugs took on a negative moral connotation.
I can't tell you how many thousands of years that I've written, well, several thousands,
years worth of medical texts.
And you don't see the scandal.
You don't see the, they're never associated with something bad.
There's no word for junkie.
I point that out to people.
There's no word for junkie.
They're never illegal.
That's absurd.
They only become illegal when Christianity takes over.
Yeah, they only become illegal, and it's a way to control the pagan population.
Wow, drugs and drug users like prostitutes, homosexuals, they became taboo and illegal.
You know, I tell people this all the time, and nobody ever believes me, but you can read
a book called Greek Homosexuality by Dover, I think it's Dover, and you will find in it
that he admits right off the bat, first couple of pages, there's no word in ancient Greek
for homosexual.
Isn't that odd?
There's no, you mean we have so much homosexuality in Greek texts, and no, they never called
something homosexual.
That's odd.
Homosexuality.
The concept is invented to control.
It's invented to control.
If you can have a junkie, you can have a homosexual, and these are the types that we have developed
disenfranchised, take away their rights, in some cases, their property and their life.
This is Christian history.
This is Christian history.
When you have Russians in Georgia who are killing homosexuals, you'll understand they're
backed.
They're backed by the church, understand that's a church movement.
People are only shocked.
What do you think the Middle Ages was?
That was, they used to call it the Dark Ages, and for a good reason, for a very good reason.
If Christianity had never come about, if Jesus hadn't been caught with a naked kid in a public
park at 4 a.m., and then executed, you and I would be a lot further than we are, because
the Greeks were coming up with some of the craziest things.
They have a basic computer, calculating the next time that you're going to have an eclipse.
Wow, just think, just think where we would be now, if we hadn't, if nature hadn't through
Christianity, because ultimately nature is the mover, nature hadn't through Christianity
oppressed the human mind, yeah, what would have happened, it's amazing.
Let's look back at the priests though, we're going a little bit long, I'm sorry, but I
want to get you to the priests with the boys.
The use of drugs was not the only physical pleasure made illicit by the early Christians
for the first five centuries of the common era, priests, monks, bishops, and church elders
consistently labored to make sexual intercourse itself an act of moral contamination in one
of the greatest reversals of human history, the Western world turned from the embracing
sexual intercourse to considering it a form of pollution.
One set of facts was constant in all of Christian priesthood, there was a patent, open, doctrinal
hatred for women, homosexuals, and drug use.
The cultural war that started in the early centuries of the common era and ultimately
produced modernity was driven by the ideology of these priests.
As bishops gained the ear of the imperial bureaucracy, the court, and eventually the
emperor himself, they promoted the values of exclusivity that have been so successful
in bolstering their own ranks.
Sex is not healthy.
According to the apostles and the early church fathers, sex was not a healthy act that brought
new life into the world as the pagan world saw it, but was the tool of the devil.
Sex merely distracted the Christian pilgrim from the path to paradise, and as Paul famously
argued, was better avoided.
When you evangelicals and Catholics, you can put whatever big bow you want on this present,
it's still a box full of feces.
Church fathers like Tertullian worked incessantly to create an image of sex and sexual attraction
as strictly negative phenomenon.
Despite the fact that bishops were known to keep lovers in the ranks of their virgins,
late church fathers are unified in their public condemnation of sexual intercourse as in Tertullians
on the veiling of virgins.
For the Greco-Roman world, sex was the highest expression of good for your evangelical world,
for your Baptist wives, for your Baptist wives in missionary.
Don't close your eyes.
There is something not disgusting about what you are doing.
This root of tainting sexuality begins with Christianity, it begins with it, and it seeps,
it works its way through.
You should read some of these people talk about patristics in the church fathers and
the early church fathers.
You should read some of the things.
If you read some of the things the church fathers said, oh my God, it was Jerome who
says the ugliest thing in the world.
The most hideous, defiled object in the vision in the world is a pregnant woman.
Seriously?
And do you know you base your theology on this man?
Yes, your God is a reflection of this man.
Yes.
The Roman authorities busted in on Alexandria.
Origin cuts off his privates.
Yes, there is so much in the air.
There is so much in the air.
It makes you want to vomit.
For the Greco-Roman world, sex was the highest expression of good.
And you say, wait a minute classes, wait a minute, not so absolute, but just wait it's
coming.
It's the ultimate beauty that propelled the natural world forward.
Desire was one of the greatest creative forces.
Aphrodite, the goddess of attraction, was worshipped in Greece and in Egypt and in Phoenicia
and further East.
The same divinity had different names.
She was Venus, a star, Isis and Ishtar.
And I want you to notice from my students, so you notice the STR root and a start and
Ishtar.
We're going back to an earlier Pulaski and divinity.
All right, good.
And her priestesses were known throughout the Mediterranean world.
Imagine a world where we worship, just imagine that for a minute.
Imagine a world where we build our institutions on Lady Justice, where we thrive under the
virgin of democracy.
Yes, and where we live in a world of the museum, under the muses, those women who bring us
these sources.
Bring us this poetry.
Gorgeous.
Love it.
Moreover, her followers, Aphrodite, honored her and worshipped her with the use of drugs.
For example, on the island of Cyprus, oh, and did we get that quote by Ambrose?
Throw that quote by Ambrose and bring that one up again.
She whom the Africans worship as who we're talking about is the heavenly one.
This is Urania, for those of you who are interested, Urania.
The Persians worship her as Mitra.
Oh, you thought Mithras was a boy.
Yes, of course you did.
And you're surprised that the earliest statues of Aphrodite have a penis.
Wow, maybe you didn't know everything.
Right?
Right?
And the multitude as Venus.
She has a variety of names, but it is not a different divinity.
That is a Christian who is describing to you the worship of Venus, the worship of Aphrodite.
Beautiful.
Aphrodite's temple burned all year round in Cyprus with incense that contained potent
psychotropic botanicals in the pagan mine.
These drugs acted as a conduit through which the goddess could possess her mortal followers.
The sailors used to say you could smell it all the way from before you could see the
island.
You could smell the incense that was burning.
They used that to guide them there, right?
Some of those ships we see sink and they're all full of opium pots.
Yeah, people wondered.
People asked me, are you sure?
You can't say these things that people in antiquity use drugs and I have professors
tell me the Romans just wouldn't do such a thing.
I've got an entire prescription.
I've got Augustus's prescription for opium, the opium cocktail he drank.
You want to see it?
It's in a Roman called Scribonius Largus.
Nobody reads him.
Nobody reads him.
You should.
Yeah.
Doped.
Doped.
Very effective dopeds too.
Fantastic.
Beautiful.
And wine in antiquity was not just wine.
It was a base for mixing alcohol soluble drugs.
We see this in the docs.
We see this in the pharmacology that nobody ever translates of which there are thousands
of pages.
I know from my regulars, you've heard all of that, right?
Like Aphrodite Dionysus was a mantic God that meant he had a power of prophecy, the
power to explain the past, the present and the future.
The lyric poet, anachron, in his fragments makes it clear that Dionysus was nothing
less than a muse.
Dionysus was the muse.
And like Aphrodite, Dionysus was worshiped in both the East and the West.
Whether he was the Osiris of Egypt, the Bacchus of Rome, or Zagreus of Thrace, Dionysus was
the God of Entheos, the God of Entheos, and that just means the God within, the God inside.
He was the God of this, the God of possession.
And according to the ancient world, he always let his followers, as Aphrodite, they would
say, to Aphrodite.
The purpose, when you go to your temple, when you enter into your church, the purpose is
to guide you, as Aphrodite.
Step back and look at your church and ask yourself, how impossible is this?
You are never going to find Aphrodite, ever, in one of your churches.
Instead, you will find a hatred that is projected by these early church fathers.
You find that hatred just leaking into the services.
Don't tell me you don't.
Submit.
My students at university are told to submit.
Learn to submit.
Anastasia is not going to submit to you.
Yeah, neither will Athena.
You're disgusting.
You're disgusting.
Your hands are covered in blood.
We should be the furies here.
We should honor the furies.
Yeah, they punish blood.
They punish that murder.
That fury is behind them.
The followers of Dionysus were almost exclusively women.
Oh, fantastic.
Imagine that.
A religion of women.
That might take you somewhere.
Make you something done.
His menads ranged across the mountains, screaming and dancing and celebration of their God.
They were intoxicated, divinely inspired women who freely consumed the wine of the God and
thus became maddened.
Even slaves, slaves were free under Bacchus.
This is a Saturnian practice.
You bring the slaves.
There is no slaves.
There is no free.
The first is last and the last is first.
Now you know where Jesus stole that from.
Yes.
Holy, holy, holy.
Yeah, that's all Greek.
Love it.
Love it.
The menads who followed Dionysus and ultimately Aphrodite celebrated a single individual.
Someone called the Korah.
In the Greek language, a Korah is a post-puberty girl, someone who has recently developed the
ability to create life.
In the classical mind, the Korah was a mortal who had been freshly initiated into the cyclical
rites of nature.
She understood the rhythms of life.
She understood the power of creativity.
And she understood the sway of madness.
The Korah was a young girl, just a teenager.
But so were the gods and goddesses of the ancient world.
Those of you who are sitting here, I need you within the Satanic congregation.
I know I'm going long and I apologize.
But I need you to see within the Satanic congregation that these divinities are not what you think
they are.
When we project a female divinity, you are not getting an accurate image.
I'm talking about the Korah now, the teenage girl.
The Greek title, Korah, is used to describe many goddesses.
Aphrodite was depicted in myth and in art as a Korah.
The muses were teenagers.
The fates were teenagers.
Athena, the Korah, the queen of the underworld herself, and Artemis were all teenage girls.
Interesting.
So again, remember how prominent these cults are.
And that when you come to see the Virgin, the statue of the Virgin, when you come to
worship and honor those images, those visions, realize what they're celebrating there.
Realize what they're saying has the power.
Those oracles were those Korah.
They were those girls who were in that state that nature had brought them to.
Classical civilization is constantly augmenting the natural state.
It's what Paul the apostle is walking around raising his hand saying, no, it's not about
nature.
It's about bumpus, the invisible power that will strike you dead if you don't give all
your money to him.
Right?
Right.
Just check out Ananias and Sapphira.
Yeah.
You know what Porphyry said about Ananias and Sapphira?
Yeah.
Dude, they got knocked off.
A couple of Christians, they sold their property and they held a little cash back for themselves
and they got knocked off.
Peter, James and John knocked them off.
Yeah.
Whoo.
That's Christianity.
That is what took down the Roman Empire.
You see the brazenness of it.
You see the Putin-esque, self-righteous.
This is the cause.
Only Moscow and Kiev have to be joined.
It's putting you into a crusader.
There's nasty people there.
There's all sorts of Nazis and homosexuals, drug users.
You see?
This is the Christian way.
Putin is not a monster because he was born in the wrong city.
Putin is a monster because he is absorbing what is coming through history and using it
for his own murderous pleasure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's disgusting.
The first oracles, the most powerful priestesses of the ancient world were all young girls.
For example, the teenage girls who made up the chorus that staged public performances
in honor of the cult of Apollo on the island of Delos.
They were among the earliest of oracular priestesses in this group.
People came from all over to see their performances, right?
The singing, the dancing, it's all a big deal.
It's all a big deal.
The author of the Archaic Hymns, attributed to Homer, celebrates the uncanny ability of
these girls to engage their audiences in his hymns to Dealing Apollo.
Young priestesses were referred to as Nightingales.
That title, Nightingale, is what they call the muse, that voice of inspiration.
She is that Nightingale.
The order of the Nightingales is attached to the temple of the muse.
Yes.
It's gorgeous.
Love it.
Some of the earliest lyric poems called Maiden Songs were part of this tradition.
Maiden Songs, yes.
Perhaps the maid of Harkiv will write a song about her experience.
The Greeks believed that girls who had recently acquired the ability to produce offspring were
closer to the gods than any other living human beings.
They believed these girls were the most divinely inspired.
They believed they had the greatest sense of justice, which having had my own all girls'
high school class, I can tell you for a fact, you can't get away with anything.
If you're even a thread hypocritical, oh my God, it's like being under constant scrutiny.
It's like their judgment is laser sharp.
Is that a factor of age?
Is it a factor of genes?
I don't know.
I don't know.
But I can attest.
I can see.
You can kind of see why they thought this, why they lived their lives this way.
In short, the ancient Korra earned the right to become the mouthpiece of the cosmos.
As a result of these beliefs, the Greeks created the first Western choruses from the ranks
of these girls.
These ancient choruses composed hymns in praise of their gods.
They performed public services and pronounced oracles.
They were educated.
They were educated priestly colleges.
You know what priests do?
With nuns in antiquity, the nuns do things with the priests.
It's the other way around.
Because the nuns are the ones that are educated.
You only see these male priests in the role of recording the visions that people are having
coming out of the oracles.
Right?
You ever wonder about that?
You ever wonder why Orpheus, who is the inspiration for the Orphic mystery, why it is that he's
the student of the priestess Medea?
Right?
It's because even at his level of accomplishment, it all goes back.
It all goes back to this female force.
It all goes back.
The profound cultural sway of the cults of Aphrodite and Dionysus made them a target
for priests and bishops in Christianity.
Christians knew they would have to destroy the influence of these cults if they would
assume uncontested political power.
Furthermore, Christian church fathers felt obliged to denigrate, destroy, and uproot
the influence of these cults if they were to maintain any sort of spiritual authority
in Rome.
I'm going to skip ahead just a little bit because we're coming to the end.
I want to just pull up to tell him his quote from the Apology.
Yeah, there we go.
Christian man does not see the female form with redeemed eyes.
She's sold as blind to sexual allure.
It is a targeted attack, a cultural war against sexuality that started by the early Christians.
Finishing up here with the social monster, let's go to the social monster.
In the midst of this struggle for power, the Christian leadership under the direction of
bishops and prominent priests created a social monster.
They created exorcists, specialist priests trained to perform the delicate task of uprooting
paganism by preventing any sort of demonic possession.
Exorcists come about as a result of possession.
So what do they do?
They created exorcists, yes.
The exorcists conducted a ceremony they referred to as the application of the fires of temptation.
It's just called the fires of temptation.
It's the trying.
Yes, the paid auspice.
Anyway, it was a secretive mystery.
It's functioning within the mystery, right?
The Christians are still, although it is a corrupted mystery coming through Jesus, they
are still performing a mystery.
And I keep trying to emphasize to everyone in the Satanic congregation that the mystery
is an action.
It is not a state of mind.
It's not an understanding.
It's not you sitting somewhere, listening to somebody talk.
It is an operation.
It is an operation.
It was a secretive mystery meant to defile young children in such a way as to prevent
their possession by pagan gods, because you see, once a child has been defiled, once a
child has been forcefully coerced into intercourse, that child can no longer be possessed, that
child cannot be used as an oracle, that child cannot be within a priesthood.
Once they are defiled, the Christians know that the Greeks and Romans, the Mediterranean
cultures are using their children within these rites and maintaining them as vessels capable
of absorbing the God, of being possessed, of carrying the God, just like Anastasia carries
that goddess, carries that defender of democracy.
These children can't do that if they're horribly attacked.
Yes, so what do the priests come up with?
What do the early Christian thinkers come up with?
If we defile them, if we put them through this terrible mystery, we save their souls.
Isn't that nice?
In the process, a priest must be, it's totally disgusting, but I'll talk about it more and
we'll pull out texts next time, but they tell the initiate, first of all, they starve them
for two weeks.
I'm sorry, it's not funny.
They starve them for two weeks and they indoctrinate them.
The indoctrination is so severe that it preps the child for the trauma that is coming.
They strip them down naked, they have to be naked, totally naked.
They take them into a basement, an undercroft, some kind of place of secrecy where their
screams can't be heard and a priest will enter who himself takes on the devil.
He takes on the devil and then he forcefully sodomizes the child and if the child who has
been trained to have this response is able to cry out, I do not accept, I do not accept
the temptation flee from me devil, then that child is guaranteed a place in that ionic
scheme that Jesus talks about when he says, I'll give you an ionic life in that world
that child is accepted because they have been completely purged, they have no desire for
that form of intercourse, right?
But no desire, a priest following the way of Cain, isn't that interesting?
It's a trial, a temptation and the child can come through it.
Then we have in the catechetical schools the recommendation in Alexandria that children
like this be counseled after the rape is baptized.
It's not funny, it's not funny in the least, but it's ludicrous, it's ludicrous, right?
I mean it's creepy and it's so ugly and it's typical and it's a very well laid out system
to cater to pedophiles and rapists, yes, it's a very clean system for creating rape, yeah.
But after they've baptized and then they have to counsel them, after they wash them off,
they have to counsel them and it says it can be very difficult and the child will ask you
things like why was I made naked, well and you tell them, he says, it's because Jesus
was naked on the cross, right, when you're going through that trial and it's pain and
it's bringing pain, you are ultimately identifying with Jesus, that's the stuff that goes into
them as they're training them before they rape them, right?
So you're setting up this mindset, people say grooming, it's not grooming at all, it's
way more vicious and way more in your face, so, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And by passing young boys through the fires of sexual temptations, temptation, priests
reinforce the exclusivity of the Christian message.
In a strange twist of history, the first rape of children by Christian priests was a means
of asserting political and social dominance over pagan religions, you remember all of
this is so that these kids can't be used in these pagan practices, this is in the mind
of the creeps who are perpetuating Christianity.
Remember, this is a religion of a man who was arrested in a public park at 4 a.m. with
a naked boy, your institutions are built upon it, yes, yes, scrub down everything that is
that does not come through the classical heritage like democracy, you'll see your charities,
they're built upon this creator God who has a son who molests children, right, you might
as well say, you know, he doesn't care, you know, Jehovah doesn't care, right?
Because he's having David bash the heads of little babies in, what does he care?
Right?
This, you think I sound a little callous?
This callosity is what drives celsus, it's what drives porphyry, yes, this has to stop,
this has to stop.
I want to end, yeah, I want to end by just bringing it back to Anastasia and her struggle
to maintain, Ukrainian struggle right now to maintain its identity, right, we, the Russians
abduct the children, they teach them Russian and tell them terrible things about their
actual background in order to wipe out Ukraine in a long run in order to wipe them out in
order to assimilate and wipe them out and it's happening right now and Anastasia, resurrection,
she will tell you, she will tell you about that conflict, they're not just fighting
a war over borders, they are fighting for their life, for their survival and as an American
as a rationalist, as a Satanist and by the way, you'll all be happy, Satanic congregation
because Vladimir Putin is now talking according to Anastasia, is using the image of Satanism
to say this is what's being promulgated in Ukraine, Satanic, he'll probably say the
same thing about Georgia when he invades Georgia and we all stand around and look at each other
funny, right, or Moldova, when he starts spreading out to any of the countries that he can, where
he can molest the people and murder the people and destroy in his wake, right, and the Christians
applaud, the Christians applaud, yay, here comes the bear, Jesus is coming, everybody
should get ready to die, yes, Anastasia is fighting it, Anastasia is fighting it, it's
an honor for me to be able to talk to her and to see that real spirit of Athena in the
world today, to see it, I wish the best for our country, we're coming into difficult times,
welcome to the apocalypse, welcome to the field of Mars and Hail Satan.
