Godzilla thing in Japan, deep purple cape, bits of bright Zeno, fill up with Cheech and Chong everywhere I go, with tables, cash and checks, down the yellow brick road, with the flowers of evil.
The man who laughs more, grows shiny trees, with magic beans, darkness through dreams, hit him with the weight of the triple beam, elemental bees.
Cheech and Fang, you and my Fang, purple crushed blazes, psychic, powerful dreamer, with the Godzilla green.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon, so nice to be with you here tonight on Initiating Apocalypse.
I've got to put out a warning here. I've got to let people know that this history that we're going to look at tonight is so edgy.
It may make you feel certain ways that you don't want to feel.
I know all of Satanic congregation comes here just for that. I understand that for the rest of you, buckle up because this material is tight tonight.
Okay, what I want to do is I want to start this off with a purification. I want us to focus. Tonight, my job is to bring you an Adolon.
I am here to bring you an image. We've already walked through the initiation. We've already been there.
Now it's time to activate our Adolon. It's time for us to do what our ancestors did before people came along and said,
You can't do that anymore, and we're going to burn all your books.
So let's get into it tonight, and we're going to do that by purifying this place. This time machine keeps working.
We've got to mist it. We've got to fumigate it. Bring it in, Chewie. Let's look at fate.
Moira, gorgeous. That is who we are appealing to tonight to clean up this place.
The edge that I told you you would feel tonight, that edge is the sword of justice. That's the sword of lady justice.
Tonight, we bring in Yahoo. Where's that whip? Where's that whip?
Get over here, Yahoo. Get over here. You know it's so tough. He respects that.
I hate to get into the whip so quick, but Satanic congregation loves it. Say Hail Satan for me. Love it. Hail Satan.
Let's get into it and find the dirt tonight. Oh, we're going to bring Yahoo in here.
Sit him down for everybody who doesn't know what the heck is going on. Yahoo is the one we don't name, right?
He's the one with the son, you know? Killed him. Ka took all of your stuff. Ka, because he loves killing children.
Yahoo loves killing children. Now, I can tell you, I can assure you this is Satanic to the core because it is so precise and reasoned.
Yeah, reasoned. Pure reason. This is the Logos, baby. This is the accounting. What does Yahoo want you to do?
You would think you would want to know what your God wanted you to do.
Well, let's go to his mouth and see what he wants us to do. But I'm warning you. I'm going to spoiler. Is child sacrifice?
Yes, yes, it is. Child sacrifice like you've never seen it in the past, in the future, brought to the present. Child sacrifice to the great God, Yahoo.
Oh, fantastic. See, we call it here on Satanic initiation, here on Lady Babylon, here on initiation apocalypse, we call it exactly what it is.
Satan told me to do that. He said something about credibility. Nobody would believe you if you ever say anything that you can't give them the source from.
If you step aside, young almond, that's what he say, call me young almond. If you step aside from that, for one hair's breadth, yeah, it'll never work.
And your greatest hopes will be disappointed. And then he said, and don't take any money. And I was like, seriously, on the money, he's like, yeah, don't take any money. Come on, bro. What do you have?
What do you have? Look at the people who were taking the money. Love it. Let's get it out there. Okay, let's hit the first source. Where are we going tonight? I'm drudging, drudging up out of the dirt.
I'm bringing you the first Oracle. You mean we got to go to the Oracles to see Yahoo? Yes, Yahoo is only there because of the Oracles. Let me show you. Let me show you, please.
Here's the great, Jerry, blow that thing up. Yeah, okay, this is the Pythia. This is the great Oracle, the Pythian Oracle. And what does she say? She says,
I honor and venerate the first Oracle of the gods, the great protomantic Gaia. After her, Thymus took the Holy seat. She was the second of that mother.
And after her, the third lot fell willingly, willingly to a Titanian named Phoebe.
Okay, pull that down. I want you to realize what you just had was a history of the Bronze Age Oracles. And you'll notice that the first, the very first Oracle is the woman.
They call her Gaia. They also call her Ga and Da. And at Elucis, they worship her as the Da Maitre.
Okay, do you see where we are? Cult wise. I dare you to get a pastor to do that. Come here, Pastor John. Come here, Pastor John. You know what I mean? Come here. Get out.
Get out. Come here. Yeah. Okay, here we go. Are you ready? Was that a mental thing? I don't know. Just metaphysics here are too hard to understand.
What are these? I want you to notice that these are all women. Number one, they're all women. So that when we're looking at the anthropology and the history, once you realize that, these are all women.
Fantastic. Fantastic. And the first is the great mother who is the earth. She is the first one. That image has not been transmitted to your and my cultures.
It hasn't. It's been blocked. Instead, we have Yahoo. And that's why you need to see what Yahoo was up to. Let's see. Okay, so we start with the Oracles.
It'll be apparent why we went there and just, you know, enjoy it. Aren't they beautiful? Nice. Go to the next text.
What are we looking for in the Oracles? We're looking for that first mantic. What does it mean to be mantic? Mantic. You know what mantic is? It comes from the Greek verb minomai.
And what does that mean? It means to be in a state of frenzy. To be in a state of frenzy. You haven't saved yourself until you've lost yourself.
Right? And this mania will lose you. Fantastic. So who do you think it is? The smarties that are giving all the Oracles. Right? It's those women who've been on the drugs.
Yes, they're all on drugs. Oh, you don't believe me? Yahoo gets mad about the drugs. Did you know that? Did you know Yahoo's got a DEA? Yeah, he does.
Watch, I'm going to show it to you. It's marvelous, people. Nobody ever reads these texts anymore. Why is that? I don't know.
Here they are. Flash them up. Bring up the next text. Let's show. What is she? When I say she, I mean all three of those Oracles, all three of those women, what are they?
They're the prophets of God. You mean when I say prophet from what I call the Old Testament, that is a word that comes from the Greek and that that wasn't in what I call the Old Testament until the third century?
BC? Yes, yes. Everybody, don't forget. It's a big deal. Right? It's a big deal. You go to the oldest stuff to see what's going on with the language. Love it.
Oh, translation gets me going. Oh, it's so stinky in a good way. Kind of musky. Let's go back to the mantic. The mantic is the one who's out of her mind.
She's out of her mind, but notice that she's the, she's the protomanthus of the prophet of Dios. Yes, Zeus. Right? She's the prophet of God. That is her position.
Okay. You got a problem with that? You got a problem with the female being the voice of God? If you do, you're under the influence of Yahoo!
And you don't know the mother. Right? You don't worship. That's where we went south, people. You cut off the mother. What's going to happen?
You're going to end up with Jesus Christ arrested in a public park at four a.m. with a naked boy screaming, I am not a child trafficker.
I said that in one breath. That's fantastic. Let's go to the next one. Who? What else is she? What is this woman that we're looking at?
I'm trying to give a portrait of a woman here. She's a mantis. She's a mantis. She's one who can enter that stage.
Yes. And who is she? She is Gaia. Right? She is Gaia. And who else is she? She is Themen. And who is Thymus? Who is Thymus?
She is law. She is the one who stands for justice. She is the one who ensures that decay justice is in your society.
Welcome. This is Thymus. You didn't, you didn't meet her because you haven't been to a leucis. It's okay. It's okay. You know, we were cut off.
Cut off from our potential. Right? Now we're in the, all these pharmaceuticals. You know, huh? Where, where's the brain going?
I don't know. Is there something growing out on the trees outside? I don't know. Yeah. It's nature. Always the nature.
When you're with that Thymus, that natural law, I've got bad news for all the misogynists. It is feminine. It is motherly.
Oh God. Eat that. Eat that. Moira. Make them swallow that. That's why it's punishment. Misogynists are just living out their hell.
Haven't you ever wondered that? They're just living out their hell. They got sent here to get punished. They don't realize it. You're already in hell, dummy.
Oh my God. All right. It's okay. You know, there's wardens and there's inmates. Go ahead. Phoebe. Who else is this woman who's Adelon I'm trying to bring to you?
It's Phoebe. Who's Phoebe? She's the lightbringer. She's the lightbringer? Yes. You didn't know that? There's only a Phoebus Apollo because there was a Phoebe before him.
Oh, wow. You mean the Greeks recognized that their system of oracles, their gods of mystery were based upon a woman and her voice?
Yeah. And they had no problem with that, right? Because that's nature, brah. What's wrong? What's wrong with you? You atheist or something?
Remember, they call the Christians atheists, not Christians. Atheists. If you don't have a problem with robbing Lady Justice, you're not going to get along with the rest of us very well.
Yeah. If you will tread all over justice, you will look at these child sacrifices and you will love it. You will lick it up. Love it.
In essence. It's vampiric of you, but that's how the people who've been Christed are. How do you think they got their vampire resurrection bodies?
Oh, my God. Brains, man. It's all chewy. It's fetal brain. Oh, I love this. Not fetal brain. I love the art. Although, you know, let's go to the next one.
Let's go to the next one. So, okay, here's where we're going to land people. Just look, you want to see Yahoo and all of his glory.
Right. Look at verse nine. Look at verse nine. This is where is this? This is a Septuagint. Oh, Deuteronomy. Yeah, Deuteronomy.
So he says, if you come into the land which the Lord God, now that word Lord there, Curios, that's what they always turn into Yahweh. Sometimes it's Yahweh, sometimes it's Elohim.
They couldn't get their stuff together and they didn't have enough words, right? Which is really the funny part. But for those of you who don't know, ancient Hebrew, like other languages around the Mediterranean was not that advanced.
And they only had a few thousand unique words by the time they were trying to reconstruct and create these texts. They took the Greek text and translated it.
What's funny is everybody here thought the Dead Sea Scrolls were Hebrew copies of Greek. Oh, no, I'm sorry. Oh, I gave you the punchline. I'm terrible at jokes.
Yeah, everybody thought they were Greek translations of Hebrew, right? No, no, no, no. They were trying to back translate from the already long-established Greek text.
The Old Testament that you love and adore was originally written in Greek. Yeah, love it. Oh God, third century fits right in. Love it. Okay, let's hit the next one.
Yep, so what's going to happen? You're going to come into this land. The Yahoo is going to give you, right? And yeah, don't do the Delugmata that those people are doing.
Don't do it. Don't do what? The Delugmata. Chewie, give me the next slide. The Delugmata? That word is even hard to say. Look at this thing.
Delugmata. That sounds like a lot. It's plural, so it's got to be a lot of that. Whatever it is, whatever he's got on himself, it's pollution, baby.
Pollution. Oh, doesn't it sound like it? The word sounds like pollution. That's what Karl Ruck told me. Look, I pulled the name.
That's what Karl Ruck told me, only because I have respect for him. That sounds like, we were talking about this couple of these passages, and he said it sounds like what it is.
You know, it's onomatopoetic. Love it. Go to the next one. It's pollution. I mean, go back to the, yep, yep, go back.
And so what happens when you come into this land? He says, yeah, yeah, yeah. Don't pass your children through the fire. Don't purify them.
What he says, a better translation of that would be, don't purify a son or daughter in the fire. What else do the people do? He says that I'm going to give you their land.
I'm going to give it to you. They already have big cities and stuff. I'm going to give it to you. You're going to go in and you're going to make anew.
It's all going to be yours. But there's a plan. There's a plan. We have to kill everybody there.
All right. Here we go. Let's see, Yahoo. What do you want? What do you want to do with the kids, the babies? Let's see what he wants.
Let's see what he advises us to do. And this is your God, Christianity, by the way, church. This is your husband. Yeah. Yeah. This is your husband flesh.
He's a killer and you'd love it. You'd salivate over this stuff. Sick people.
Let's go back to the Deuteronomy. What's going to happen? We're going to go in and these people, now I'm telling you, right? I'm voices Yahoo.
These people, these people are going to be doing things. They're going to be money Elmenos, right? And they're going to be Montaeon.
They're going to be doing what? They're going to be doing mantic things in a mantic way. They're going to be making mantic stuff.
See, in signs, reading bird sign. Isn't that nice? Taking the stuff. And what does he say in number 11? What does he say in number 11?
Far makos ap aedon epe oidein. Oh, isn't that gorgeous? What's he going to do? He's going to take away their drugs.
Why? He says the person using the drugs does epodes. They enter into these chants and they do their chants and you're going to, we can't do that.
You're going to stop doing that. We're going to stop them from doing it. How are we going to stop them from doing it? God, we're going to kill them all.
Yes, fantastic. Go. Let's see it again. This God is so, so wonderful, isn't he? What else do they do?
They're engastrimuthos and teratoscopos. They're looking for signs and miracles.
What else do they do? They do this engastrimuthos thing, where they bring out the voice from the inside. It's a woman's thing.
If you look it up, it's something the women do and they bring it out from that inside. You would think it's the stomach, but it's not.
That's how they refer to being pregnant, having engastri. Something really neat going on there, but Yahoo wants us to kill them all.
Let's go back to that one. Let me just make sure we didn't miss anything. Yahoo told us to do. Take down initiating apocalypse there.
Here we go. There we go. These things are Delegma 12. These things are pollution to the Yahoo and doing them is a bad thing.
He doesn't want you to. He says, I'm going to go in and destroy these people and you're going to be teleos. You're going to be what? You're going to be teleos.
What does Yahoo want you to be? Bring the next slide. I think I've got a picture of this thing. After Delegma, right?
It'll come up later. It'll come up later. Let's go back. We're still with Moe. Let's go.
Moe and Deuteronomy. Love it. Keep going. By the way, for the people who say, where are your choices? They're sitting right in front of you.
Fantastic. Where are we going? Do we get lost? Big thing on the screen. Big brown thing.
Perfect. Thank you. When you're going to go in, he says, and you're going to disinherit them. They're going to be doing these things like trying to take signs, being mantic.
You're not supposed to follow these things. He says, I'll give you a profit. They're using the same systems.
Do you ever notice the Egyptians are doing exactly the same? They're using the same systems, but this Yahoo doesn't want you to just come in and integrate.
He wants you to destroy these people. How does he want you to destroy them? Ready? I'm going to show you what the text says. God says.
Are you ready? Let's listen to the words of God. Isn't that satanic of me? By the way, every time I hear of somebody who couldn't watch or could only watch a few minutes or left the room, anytime I hear these stories, I get so tickled.
Because that's exactly what the devil would do. Beautiful. It's gorgeous. Let's find out what happens. What do you want me to do?
Yahoo, come on. Come on, Yahoo. Take your pants down, Yahoo. Oh, what a heavenly bottom. Oh, Yahoo, say Yahoo.
Feels good. Let's go. Next source. Look, people, where did we get the delugma, right? Look where it is. It's here. Delugmaton, right? Next to the bottom. What is this text about? This is the apocalypse. This is the woman dressed up in the purple.
And do you know what she has? She has a golden cup, right? She's got precious. This thing is beautiful. It's a gorgeous thing. What is it inside of it? The delugmata, right? Those, that.
And what is it? It's that acafarsia, that which is not purged of the porneia of Lady Babylon. What is her porneia? The porneia, and I'll say this is, look, people get excited and they get mad and angry.
What I'm going to say this is scientifically and educationally appropriate as possible. It is her vaginal excretions, you know, ones that are there following coitus, you know, or some kind of initiation of the ejaculatory process.
Now, see, we can do this in a sophisticated way. But that cup is what gives us the death and the rebirth so that we can have ionic life. So you better be paying attention.
This practice of the sacred name of Rome is this mystery. Okay. Okay. Find her. Find her name. And you understand, you have ears to hear. I see.
All right. There's something very important coming up, something very important because, and I don't normally do this, but feel the burden, because people are writing me and say, don't do this. And I do. I'm sorry. It's again, it's a devil thing.
Right. I kind of feel a burden. Right. You know, you need me. You need a gadfly. Okay. Let's see what God says. Bring on God. Come on out, God. Give us your Oh, yeah, we got that's Lady Babylon. We're, we're done. We saw her. She's got the Delugmoner cup. So tell us God, are you ready, everybody? Are you ready, everybody? Words of God.
Right. Don't be purifying your sons or daughters in the fire. Right. Don't be purifying. What do these people do who are there? They purify their sons and daughters in the fire. Okay. Okay. Fine.
We got a DEA thing going. Right. Cause all that is is fumigation people and they use skin creams. Well, they do make cuts in the skin and then cover them with the drug. They do do that. So drug treatment. Right. No wonder God said, I'm going to take away your drugs. DEA was born. Right. Let's go. Next one.
Hmm. What do we do? Take away all your pharma coy. Right. This is your pharma costs. And what does he do? He sings. He chants. Right. Think of the combination of drugs, magic, religion. Yeah. Is a medicine. I'm sorry. It's a form of medicine. All these people are doctors, right. Pythagoras was right. You don't. Yeah. It's all around the body.
If you think you can learn Pythagoras by reading the quotes of his students who lived hundreds of years after him. If you think you can capture with the capture Pythagoras and that good luck. Good luck. But you may not want to waste your time. Yeah. Yeah. Look at Pythagoras from his practice.
Look at him as somebody who understood the deep details of all the interactions. I mean, the guy is traveling around just to try the drugs that the Egyptian priests have. And then the magic I have. Right. Good. That is what gets you to Pythagoras. Isn't that nice? Wouldn't we want to send our people toward Pythagoras? We need some kind of educational institutions that will.
Grow the brain. Actively. Love it. Love it. Let's go to the next one. Whereas we need that. We need more direct quotes. Yeah. He doesn't want the people in tick and he doesn't want the people seeing signs and what's he going to look? What is what am I going to do says curious? Right. Right.
I'm going to off on these say your, your, your people, your ethnic who are there in your land because it's your land. It's not yours yet, but there are people there. Right. Whether they got there yesterday or a hundred years ago is irrelevant. There are people there.
Right. And he says, what am I going to do? I'm going to offer needs of them. Good. Let's show people what God's going to do.
What is God going to do? He's going to offer needs of right people. I'm sorry. I got to lean in on this one. Yeah. Yeah. Remove do away with destroy obliterate.
So create steel obscure make away with make it disappear. Take that down. Look at that. I'm going to make those. I'm just totally obliterate those people. You know what yahoo is yahoo is a, you know, when yahoo said that the Olympians looked at each other like
seriously, you know, what kind of divinity you watch here. You know, remember he's going to command them to go into these cities and just bomb the hell out of him. Right. He says the statues, the images, everything you're going to obliterate it.
And then you're going to kill who, who should we kill? Men, women, children and the ones that are still on the breast. Kill them all. That's what yahoo said. Kill them all.
Yes. Now you think who is this maniac in Hell's Kitchen? Look at him. I must be totally out of my mind. Tell me. Tell me, Oh muse, tell me how this is practical right now.
Show me the child sacrifice. Here we go. Here we go. Let's go see it. I can't wait. Look people. Look at it. Read it. So I'm just putting up contemporary happenings. That's all. Does that bother a lot of you? Does it bother you to do that?
You mean I can put up ancient texts and you don't care, but put up a modern one. Come on. Get with it. Yeah. Starvation. Starvation. You mean you can use an army to induce starvation. Why? Of course you can. Right.
It's one of the tricks of the historical trade of genocide. Do you think that our century and the century before ours were the first to produce genocides? Look, people, I've studied a lot of ancient history, right? A lot of it. Several thousand years.
And I can tell you just from that slice of humanity, that pie is full of genocide. Full of genocide. Yeah, it goes and comes. One culture, one century is being genocided. The next century is doing the genociding. That's history. That's human history.
It's dark and it's ugly and it smells. It smells and it doesn't matter if you're an Adolf Putin or an Adolf Hitler or an Adolf Trump. It does not matter.
Oh, did we forget? I forgot now because the child sacrifice Adolf Netanyahu. We got to add him to the group. It doesn't matter. These people will always be there. Historically, they're like seeds through the timeline.
And our job is to make sure they don't get to the point that they can kill children. Why? Why do we have that? Because we follow the great mother. Your culture has no room for the great mother.
So they will look away when the children become the targets. Yeah, look away. Look away. Look away. Don't see it. You can't get away. The great mother. Your fate doesn't care, right? You're here. You're here right now.
You're here right now. Let me tell you something. There are two groups of people in the underworld. I hate to, you know, spoiler, spoiler alert. I hate to spoil it, but there are two groups of people in the underworld.
There are those who either directly support or participate in genocide. And there are those who don't. And you know what? They have to be put in different cell blocks. Yeah, because there's even a justice in hell.
There's a justice there, right? Nobody wants to be part of the genocide. Nobody does. Here's the problem from antiquities perspective. You and I, we share blood guilt. You say, what do you mean? What's that mean?
What's that mean? You can be indirectly responsible for killing someone if you make it possible to happen. Or the higher standard and Tartarus is you didn't say anything about it. You let it happen. If you permit these things to happen, you are just as guilty as if you are directly supporting it.
So on one hand, we have the Christians who march forward Joshua soldiers and kill them all, right? They know where the blood guilt is, right? But for those of us who are supporting it, not speaking out and paying for it to happen.
Yeah, it turns out they hold us responsible for that. Yeah, you get a mark. Can you believe that you get a mark? You can never take it off.
And they said the market cane was bad. You know what I mean? Holy mackerel. So we don't want that blood guilt. We don't want it. That is the classical civilized world giving its opinion. That's the world that Christianity cut off at the root and grew a new society where people didn't read.
Eventually they did cause the Renaissance and then enlightenment. Yeah, love it. It was classics that they were reading people. Yeah, now this opening in the new library that's coming. Oh, oh, oh, boom, it's going to be a nuclear bomb of the brain of humanity.
Oh, God, I can't wait to get those. Oh, we got to make those public. Those have to be people's, you know, it's your right as a human to see and to feel these words from the ancient world of people who created democracy.
Right. Love it. Let's, let's keep going. Oh, God, lovely images there, Chewie. Thank you tonight, by the way, for all the lovely images. I think Chewie's doing a fantastic job on the videos too.
I really like tonight's videos, intro and exit. And thank you, Teddy, for the excellent singing. Love it. Oh, God, look at this. So the people who you're going to dispossess, these are the ones who are doing all this mantic stuff, says the Lord God.
And the next one, come on, where's the juicy stuff? Oh, yeah, I want you to be complete. What is complete? The next one will tell us what is complete says God to his people. I want you to be complete.
Yeah, all they that belong to Dionysus. Do you want to hold on? Hold on. You thought it was the other way around, right? You thought God was the originator camp. No, no, no, this God, Yahoo, he doesn't show up to way late, way late, like a thousand years post when you would imagine, or when the narrative would tell you he showed up.
Yeah, Yahoo's late, man. He's late God. And he's all like, kill everybody. Right? You don't think that's Dionysus? Have you read the Bacchai? Main character loses his head and it's torn off by his mom. Isn't that nice? Think of that for a minute. How many of you who have ever had the blood on your hands?
Yeah, how many of you would think that could be purged by your mother ripping your head off? That society is a society that gave us democracy. Yeah, it's a mother oriented society and a mother oriented society. None of the great mother's armies are genocidal.
They don't kill children. They don't kill children. Now, depending on the place, because in some regions women fought. So, you know, women, that's a totally different, that's a totally different, but the children, right? That child sacrifice, when he said, when Yahoo, Yahoo, did you not say that you wanted Abraham to sacrifice his own kid? And what did he do? He wasn't like, what? Who?
What? Are you crazy? No, he was just like, okay. Because he was Abraham. And you think, why? Why Abraham? Why did you accept that? Well, I want to kill my own kid thing so quickly. It's because everybody knows Yahoo. Everybody knows Yahoo takes the sacrifice. Everybody knows that.
Yeah. Why do you think his people can call down fire? All right, Elijah, didn't you notice that? That was Phoenician, baby. Yeah, Jezebel. She's the one, it was her line that was preserving that, by the way. I slept in her vineyard.
I slept in her vineyard. And when I was there one night, a howitzer rolled up next to her, boom, because they were shooting at rockets coming out of, not at rockets, but at the people who were shooting rockets coming out of the north.
Right? And I was like, oh, I bounced out of my bed. It was so, I didn't think concussion would be that great. But there you go. It's probably what happened. Knocks something loose, you know what I mean?
That was in Jezebel's vineyard. She who commands that fire. And you are not to pass your children through the fire. Instead, we're going to go in and kill them all. Yeah, that's God. By the way, that was God. Was I a good God? Chewie, thumbs up for God.
Okay, it's pretty good. I got to get better at God. I got to get God voice. How do you do God voice? Oh, go. Okay.
Look, look what's happening here, people. Oh my God. I just want you to see that Bethlehem is involved. This is all part and parcel of the same beast, right?
All those prophecies, Bethlehem. Guess where they're coming from, right? They're coming from the invading force that is going to cleanse the land of the people who are already there.
Okay, history, baby. Hey, let's roll along with history. Oh, God, let's give him his thirst. Let's say this thirst. I'm telling you, we're coming to a quote by God here that's going to make you totally, totally
love the fact that you're mourning his death. Yeah, love it, love it. And he says, and I will totally destroy the cities of the land.
Yeah, and I will tear down all their towers. And look at verse 11, and I will take away their drugs right out of their hands.
And there's not going to be any more smart talk. Wait, what? There's not going to be any more oppo-thangolmenoi. What is that? That's when you sit around and exercise free speech.
And when you sit around and calculate, no more of that, no more wise sayings. No more wise sayings. What is this an attack on?
This is an attack on the third century Greek culture in which Judaism was embedded and fighting for its survival. And what did they do? They made a war against the Greeks.
And you can see it. It's hilarious. Everything. He says, I'm going to destroy it. I'm going to. You're not in Canaanite culture. You're in Greek culture.
Right? It's funny. The author screwed up because the author was really writing. They're trying to pass this off as something old.
But instead of writing about what would have been old historically, they wrote about what was in their own environment.
This is not just something the knuckleheads that wrote the Septuaget did. There were a lot of Roman knuckleheads that did the same thing.
Kind of misplaced history because they're reading modern ways of doing things into what was going on at a time when that didn't happen.
Right? So the scholars will sit around in their circle jerks and they'll talk about, oh, this is anachronistic or yes, no, this is, you know, he's taking, he's taking these gods in his book.
Okay, never mind. Ah, this days of scholars make me want to puke sometimes. Yeah. Yeah, I was wild though. They liked me at conferences because I was ready to pounce, right?
I was like, you going to do anything here? Yeah. No, I don't know why. I don't know why. I was always courteous though. Let's go to the next one.
Oh, yeah. Here, one of them people, look, I'm going to destroy the city. I'm pulling on the tower. Take away your drugs. Look at verse 12.
And I'm going to destroy your Glupta and your Stalos. I'm going to destroy your sculpted images and your monuments that have writing on them. Really? Really?
Now, why is there that distinction? Because the people were writing this text, the Septuagint in the third century BC, those people are reflecting what's going on around them.
Right? That stuff, those monuments with the writing and all that writing and writing, writing, writing, your Greek everywhere.
What's because they don't have any Hebrew anymore, right? That stuff is stale and dead. It's only got a few thousand words. How's that functional, dude?
Right? Don't worry though, Hebrew. It happened to other languages like Oscar and Umbrian. Those things died out too.
Right? Even Latin got dwarfed. You know, Latin stayed on the track in the West, but God, the Greeks gave them a thrashing, just a thrashing.
Okay, let's go. Why? Because ancient Greek is superior. Okay, I'm sorry, but it is mathematically, it is more complex than any other language that I've ever interacted with,
that I personally have experienced with. Yeah, definitely. Definitely. Yeah, now you know why when you come into a classics program, they say, take Latin first.
Right? Why? Because you don't want to jump into the depths. And that's what it is. It's the depths. And we're so fortunate to be able to have access to these things.
Give me the next one. I want to hear. Yahoo, tell me. What do they call them? Yahweh. Right? No way in Yahweh. Yahweh, Yahoo, tell me.
Holy Yahweh, Yahweh, tell me. What is it that you're going to do? You're going to destroy all that art and you're going to cut down their groves.
And why are you going to cut down their groves? Because that is where they worship.
Imagine the idea is you have a big grove of trees and it usually has like a sacred stream associated with it.
And there are certain animals there and hunting is off limits. If you stumble into a sacred grove and injure or damage a tree, you're in deep.
Right? That can cost you your life. So what do they do? It's like putting ultimate protections. It's like a natural preserve.
Right? A natural preserve. Imagine that. Who got the idea for that? Yeah, I thought it was, I thought some Teddy Roosevelt or something.
No, no, it turns out it's Greek and it's very, very old. So what is Yahoo going to do?
He's going to march into your sacred grove with those sacred trees that mean so much to your culture. And he's going to cut them all down.
He's going to cut them all down. They're not even going to use the wood. They're just going to destroy the place.
Why? Because that's what those people do. That's what those people do. They worship in those groves. We're going to totally destroy it.
We're going to blow up that building because that's their church. That's their mosque. That's their synagogue. They're going to blow it up.
This happens in history over and over and over again. It's cyclical. Right? It's like a virus. It catches a population.
All of a sudden, their military is a genocide driven instrument. Right? It doesn't matter if it's Putin.
It doesn't matter if it's Netanyahu. It doesn't matter who it is in the past, present, or future. It doesn't matter.
It is a fragment of history and you can stand against it. You can stand against it or you can watch it happen and pay for it.
But don't say I, Amun, didn't warn you because that stain will follow you. It'll work on you up here. It'll follow you.
Once you've done it, that's it. You will never be the same. How do we know that? Because we're pagans and we know how nature works.
Right? You think I could look in the mirror and be all skipy if I knew I was starving some kid somewhere?
Put on the next one. Let's go. Oh, look at this. Yes, yes. This is the sit around and contemplate.
Yeah, let's go to the next one. He's going to cut that off too. What else? What else?
What else? Here's the Angostri moves us. I just wanted people to see that this is indeed connected with women and the oracles.
Right? Good. Good. That's what they're doing. And that's what God hates. Right? Give it to me and blow it up. Chewie.
Look, now I want to take a quick break. Put it into high gear for just two minutes and tell you what do we have here?
We got these poisons that come out of these serpents and we can use those poisons to influence the plants.
And the plants then will yield drugs themselves. What do these drugs do? Give me the next one. What do these drugs do?
This is from the De Ortsy Walewani describing the Medea's medication. Right?
He says, one of these drugs, when you give it to someone in a drink, causes Minte Muntara, causes your mind to go goofy.
Okay. And what else? And it causes you to become rabid. Right? Remember that frenzy I told you about?
Oh, God, they made her into Lissa. They made her into idle form, into an image form. She was Lissa. You know what she does?
She drives you nuts. Dogs too. She drives dogs nuts too. Yeah. Good. Let's go. He didn't say that, did he? I think he did.
Then what happens? Oh, we got snakes, a couple of snakes in there. I may have missed them, but we have a couple of snakes in there that I wanted you to see.
Yeah, it's one of them. Look at this here. Oh, no. It was, yep. No, I'm sorry. That's out of order. My fault. I didn't catch that.
Okay. What are we going to do? Remember that redhead that we caught people? And those of you who went through state tango initiation will already know this redhead.
We got a teenage redhead full of pimples from an ancient document that was telling us, take this teenage redhead with pimples, tie him up, put him on a skewer, and turn him around in front of the fire to keep his body at a high body temperature.
And then it says, when he's sufficiently warmed up, you know, and his veins are all turgid, then you do the phlebotomy. And how do you do it? You do it with transverse cuts across the arms.
Yeah. That's what that text says. Can you believe that? Can you believe that? Yeah. Why are we doing this, people? Because we're milking him, right? We're getting the blood, right?
And the blood is going to be used in the medicine, right? Okay. Keep going. Keep going. Boom. And here we are. Here we are. Wait, we had a redhead there. We were having barbecue. It was fantastic. What's going to happen?
These things says Yahoo, right? You remember, you remember how my voice, right? It comes from the out of the middle of that fire, out of the middle of that fire, right?
Moses. There's a thing going on with Moses here, right? This is the Exodus. What is going on? Yahoo and Moses are having a conversation through a bush. They're doing their serpent magic together.
Yeah. Turn things into serpents. Turn things out using that rod, that robdon. Oh, wait a minute. Those of you who are in my Greek class, you know that the robdon is an instrument used by the Bacchans.
So you were already one step ahead when I told you Moses had a robdon. It didn't surprise you, right? And he's there. He's doing the same thing the Egyptians are doing. It's Isosynosiris, right? And they're using the magic. They're using the venoms.
Yes. And if you hold up, go back to the text. If you hold up that serpent, you know. Remember, this is Yahoo. He speaks through that fire. And you say, wait a minute. Yahoo is using the same avenue that they speak of the pagan gods using that came before Yahoo?
Yes. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. They can all look at each other, right? They can all look at each other. People would say, where's your wife, Yahoo? Right? He's using the same images. This is the writer of this thing, of this Septuagint, these books of Moses that I'm quoting. This is his reaction to his surroundings.
Right? It's lovely. Authors sometimes will, you know, they're like puzzles. You have to figure them out. You have to get in their head and figure out, you know, where is Shakespeare stealing his material from? Oh, it's a zodiac of life.
All right. Rest that guy. By the way, Ireland, you shouldn't have put up with that. Where's the queen? All right. Let's not do that. Let's go to the next one. Yeah. Okay. Let's go to the next one. Oh, God, love these. Love these Bible quotes. Yeah.
Yeah. Oh, okay. Look, look, look, look. So what happens to Moses? You know, he saw an angel, right? An angel appeared to him. It's an angel of Curios. Oh, sorry. It's an angel. It's a Yahoo angel. And where did he appear in Puri in the fire? But he's not just in fire. That's not the cult terminology. Right? If he's in fire, it means he's, you know, somebody put him out. He's in the Puri flogos.
He's in the fire of the flocks. What is the flocks again? That's the stuff that's in Jesus's eyes in the apocalypse. That's the stuff that's in Jesus's eyes. Yeah. Yeah. God, from the fire. Did you know that? Now you know why Yahoo was like, come here, Eve, come here.
Come here, Awa, which is a bucket cry. Come here, Awa. Awa was going to make Adam Adam. She was going to make him invulnerable. Yeah, she was going to put him through the fire. Now, unfortunately, Lucifer got to her first. Yeah. Did you ever notice, by the way, nobody ever notices this? Did you ever notice in the book of Genesis?
Which is a Greek word. In the book of Genesis, the devil gets to Eve. They do the fruit thing. And then she goes and takes it to Adam. Did you ever wonder the wonder? What was it that the devil and Eve did that ended up them being naked?
Because you know that's what the Bible says. I swear on the Holy Bible. It says, you end up naked. When you get the fruit, your eyes are open and you end up naked. Whoops. Yeah. And you know what happens with naked person and other naked person. You know what happens when naked people get together on fruit. You know what happens. You know what's going to happen.
There was a reason that Yahoo was so pissed off from the very beginning. This is not a happy God. Yahoo is not happy. If you wonder why people who are following Yahoo, if they're yelling out, Yahoo. You know what I mean? If they're doing it, you got to wonder why is it? Because that's what he does.
That's what he does. Right? They're gods that the Romans would evacuate from a place and adopt as their own. And they're gods that they wouldn't. Yeah. Yahoo is one that they wouldn't. Yahoo is one that they went and cursed. Why?
Do you know why you got to get up at four in the morning? Because they come to your door, banging on your door. You got to see this guy. We got another child trafficker. His name's Jesus. You get up and you ask him a bunch of questions.
Oh, what do you got? What do you got for me, Jesus? Oh, the truth. Oh, shit. Here we go again. Can you feel the depressive anxiety of Pontius Pilate? My God, man. We got to deal with more of this.
No. Yahoo was never imported to Rome. They did gods from all over the other world, the rest of the Mediterranean. Why didn't they do it for Yahoo? Right? Did you know the name Jerusalem is Greek?
It's not Hebrew. The Hebrew wasn't around. The Greek was there way before the Hebrew was. What is it? It's the perfect name that's beautifully done in Greek.
Don't you understand why the rough breathing on the here and here, Jerusalem? Didn't you understand why that had to disappear in the Hebrew because they couldn't represent it? Right? So, yeah, turns out it's holy, man. It's holy.
Yeah, it's not what you think. It's holy. It's whoever is propagating the history that is not using the sources. Those people are, they've gotten, they've gotten away with a lot, right, in your last 2000 years.
Yeah. Thank, you know, thank Athena that a few people stood up, you know, and said, no, we're not going to do this. Yeah, people got to be free. We're going back to that old way. You know, we're not going to have a theocracy. Thank you very much.
Right? Who wants a theocracy? Anybody out there want a theocracy?
I can tell you a whole bunch of them in history that none of them was good. None of them was good. Okay. Yahoo. What? Come on. Let's get the incriminating evidence against yahoo done.
Look, here's Mark. Here's Mark, right? He says, now about the resurrection from the dead. Right? You know that in the book of Moses, right? What happened? God spoke to him epitubatu through the power of that bush.
The botos. What's a botos? Go to the next. What the, what is a botos? This is the bush that burns, right? But it isn't consumed. Are you listening to me, Satanic congregation?
A bush that burns but is not consumed. I'll leave that with you in your decoder. But if you want to go just a little bit deeper and see why I managed to bring out the redhead, let's go to the next slide.
Boom. Yep. What is that botos? Look, it's a bramble. It's a bramble. It's a bramble. Where have I seen this bramble before? Next, Chewie. Where have I seen this bramble? We're going to hurry up because people are being gracious.
Look, remember that toad? We picked up, wait, wait. Remember, this was last week, we picked up a toad. We went to this cult event. They're sitting there with this redhead. He's like, oh, right? Or did they sedate him first? I can't remember. I think, yeah, there was a DJ and the music was going.
It was a hoppin party, right? We were all going to get that blood. And what happened? Somebody took a toad. Did you drink that stuff? They took a toad and they were fermenting this thing, adding all sorts of kind of stuff to it. And this is, oh, it's the bramble toad. It's the bramble toad. You mean that bush has a toad?
Well, you know, things happen, nature. And the toad speaks through the bush, the fire. Anyway, you can take the ingredients and you can do what you want with them. You can walk on and go your way. But if you want to hear the voice of God, and you want to be a prophet, you have to plug in. You have to plug in.
Right. And that's what Yahoo is doing. He's already plugged into the system. And now he has to get rid of all that is unlike him. He must purge the system. Your God, Judaism, Christianity, Islam, your God is a destroyer of the system.
Do you want to know who can testify to this? There are dead people and people dying who will stand up someday when you and I are there and we have to look them right in the face. And to be honest, I don't like the fact that that blood through the money is all over our American hands.
I don't feel good about that at all. You know, I know the United States Marine Corps. United States Marine Corps, they're not going to be doing that. They're not going to be starving children.
No, they're going to be doing what the Air Force is doing, trying to drop that stuff out, supplies out. Did you see those people get run over? Did you see them get ground into the ground?
Yes, it is a sacrifice. It is a sacrifice from a historical perspective. It is a sacrifice to a God who demands child sacrifice.
Now, let's look at where God actually says, because I'm going to do some magic now. I know you're waiting. You're like, oh God, here we go. Here's the magic. Here's the present. Are you ready for the present? Give me the next one.
Go right. No, no, no, keep going. No, we're going to skip right to here. Go ahead and give me that one. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm back to Moses. No, no, no, right here. Let's go right there. Boom.
Okay, God, here it is. Everybody, here's his testimony, and we're going to bring it right into the future. Bring it right into the now. Oh, here we go. Are you ready?
I'm going to bless those of you who grab those children and smash them on the rocks. That's what you do. You go in and you grab those little kids by the ankles and you smash their heads on rocks says God.
Okay, put a dash after that quote and put God. God wants you to smash heads.
Okay, and you're going to say, what is, it's the kitchen again. I'm in Hell's Kitchen again. This lunatic. This is totally irrelevant. Go hit the, hit the news. Let's see the, let's see it. Right. Okay, there it is. Right, right, starving children.
Okay, now how do we know this isn't an accident? Well, let's see. Let's see the next one. Let's go. How do we know this isn't just an accident? Oh, go, skip down. I want you to skip down right to here. Go to there.
This is from Mother Jones, the dangerous history behind Netanyahu's Amalek rhetoric, behind his Amalek rhetoric. Wait, what? The recent biblical reference has long been used by the Israeli far right to justify killing Palestinians.
Interesting article. Let's see. Seriously, are they serious here? We need a direct quote, maybe from Netanyahu himself. Look at the bottom of this. You must remember what Amalek has done to you, says our Holy Bible.
You must remember. Wait, what? No, what did Amalek say? Give me the next slide, because fortunately, we brought Amalek with us. Right. And what does he say? What does the passage say? This is in 1 Samuel, chapter 15. And what is the, look at the third line, those first two words.
You know who's saying all this stuff? This is the Lord, the yahoo of Sabbath. Okay. And what does the yahoo of Sabbath say? He says, you're going to go into Amalek and you're going to avenge.
You know, we were on the road from Egypt, right? And he jumped us. You know what we're going to do? I want you to go in there. I want you to kill them all. Kill them all. Look at what God says in the fourth to last line.
Now, I've got to warn you, this fourth to last line here was taken out of the Bible. It was taken out. For whatever reason, the Hebrew was incapable of expressing it, or because for some reason somebody thought, oh, this is a little bit stingy.
We're going to take it out. But what does it say? It says, you will dedicate them to the God. That is to him. What does that mean? That means there are sacrifices to be killed. And there is a man there. He says, you can do it to the men and the women.
And I want you to do it. I want you to do it from the kids all the way down to the ones that are breastfeeding. And what do you do? You smash heads. You know, that's the easiest thing that you can do. They're killing an infant.
Apparently, according to the religion of the great and powerful, wonderful God that we all serve. Fantastic. You people are amazing. Love it. Love your God. What a God you've got. Look at this. Look at this.
Yes, right here. Just one more image. Thank you, Reuters. This is from Reuters. That kid is undoubtedly dead. Yeah, starvation, right? And where does the starvation start? Is it going to start with the most vulnerable in the population, right?
But that's how it goes when you're trying to wipe out any group. Do you think these are the first people, humans, who have ever been starved to death? Look, who was doing it? The Romans were doing it to the people of Jerusalem 2000 years ago.
They starved to death. Yeah, they were eating each other. Yeah, can you believe that? You got to be desperate to do something like that. Yeah, but this is how it works, people. This is how it works. If you're going to be stained, you got to call a spade, a spade, bro. There's no, you know, there's no getting out of it. Okay, a couple more. There's just two more and then we're going to cut it out.
I wanted to end with the protomantus. I wanted to end with the prophecy because now that you're looking at the child's sacrifice in the face as you're watching it happen, albeit from a distance, as you're watching it happen.
I want you to hear the words of that earth oracle. Maybe this will make some sense. Open it up, Chorus. What is the prophecy? This is great. You guys are getting a prophecy tonight.
Yeah, what do you say, Chorus? The Chorus says, if someone goes around doing outrageous things with hand or with word, being unafraid of justice and disrespectful of the oracular seat,
may Moira be the one who takes that person into the depths of what is evil.
Let Moira let your fate, because that's the way pagan mysteries were oriented that you can't do anything here that isn't done for a reason. There is no chance.
And you are here for your punishment. Your punishment is bearing that blood. And she, the image that we are bringing as the Satanic congregation, she won't abide that.
She is nemesis. The armies of the world who engage in genocide, and I would include anybody who's shooting at hospitals, anybody who's blown up maternity wards.
I don't care if it's with who made the missiles and where they come from. Everybody who paid for it is culpable.
Everybody who didn't stand up culpable. We are buying this slaughter, and we are giving to Yahoo exactly what he wants.
I'm sorry to end on such a note, but I wanted you to have some sobering present fulfillment of these texts.
These texts are talking about doing things that defense ministers are quoting. The very name Amalek has given a liberty to destroy, and we are all watching it.
Yeah, I say damn Yahoo, and hell Satan.
Down the yellow brick road, with the flowers of evil, the man who left war, from shining trees, with magic beans, darkness through dreams, hit him with the weight of the triple beam, elemental peace.
Cajangalang, doing my thing, purple kush blazing, psychic, powerful dreamer, with a God degree.
