Oh god purple
Deadly as you know
Poison to the touch
Rubber dubber dub
The sea gave up its head
Overflowing cup
Hades extra love
Thanos and Athena
Dancing with Lumber Dea
The voice is in the wind
Hear now why you listen
Q-Sip Lumber Dea
Shouldn't mess with this
My girl is poisonous
Purple rain and kiss
Elvira that's my chick
Drake and Venom drip
Fangrippin' her lip
Catherine of the wheel
Athena mumma dea
Purple triple bema
Sticky icky creeper
The muse dance with Mia
Sibylina dea
Havocin' the dreamers
My girl is poisonous
Hit you with the kiss
Drake and Venom drip
Fangrippin' her lip
Hit you with the kiss
Drake and Venom drip
Fangrippin' her lip
With Danny Jones
And we're gonna
After that oh god
I've got um
Tonight it's gonna be one of those
Resetting the paradigm nights
I love this stuff
I absolutely love this stuff
Isn't it Hail Satan
Oh god it's so good
It's so good
Let's go ahead and start off
And by the way
I wanna say before we bring on
Before we go to Neil's bar
I wanna bring
On
For you some thanks tonight
To the people who have been working
Both for Arm and you
And for Lady Babel on the people
And the transcripts
People don't realize this
But there's a lot of people behind the scenes
Who are working hard
Making transcripts of all
Of these
Of all the Lady Babel on series
So you can go back and access
The Greek
It's gonna be absolutely
Gorgeous
Those are the people working on
That Lady Babel on the side
There is a discord associated with them
They have a museum for you of sources
What I'll do
Is when we're at Arm and you
I'll post that but tonight
We're in the bed of the Muse
I wanna thank all the music people
Who have come
To
A cult examiner
And Sirius and all that gang
Who are doing their videos
Oh god they're mesmerics
Sit there, I dare you
Sit there on the throne
Sit there on the throne
And watch what happens
Who's got bananas
Alright
What do I have right up top for you
Satanic congregation
I understand our numbers are growing
Every time is precious and I want to honor that
So I'm not gonna give you
A bunch of BS tonight
I'm gonna hit you with a good stuff
Talking about sources
We're gonna go to Gnostic
Informant who had an interview
With Danny Jones
Please bring up Gnostic Informant
What's going on?
How you doing?
Hanging out in the uh
You know it's the uh
It's the bed of the Muse, it's where I'm at
This is where we go
Entheogens, we drink our kooky on
Okay
Dionysus, this is the house of Bacchus
The house of Bacchus
What happened?
What happened to you?
You've turned into light
I love the
Interview as I've seen so far
I love it
Unfortunately I had to prep today
So for those of you who don't know
This interview with Danny Jones
Just came out
And it's doing smashingly
It is
Say something about it Neil
Throw us into the
Throw us into the pot
And let's get down and dirty
I had to follow
Your bit from
Seven days ago and I was like
There's no way I'm gonna be able to compete with that
With the fire that you brought
But apparently the algorithm
Is in my video just as much
And it's up there
So let's see what happens
I'm thinking maybe combined
You and I
Can get Danny
Combined the 10 million views by the end of the year
Okay
Okay, that's a prediction
And you know me, I don't do predictions
I hope
You're right because
The more people
This reaches
The more people that get this
Information
The better we have done
As an ancient museum
Right?
We get them, we feed them
I noticed in your interview
That
You're direct with the sources
I like that a lot
You went back to the
Perseus
The Oxford
Great Lexicon
Yeah, go ahead
He was asking me questions about
Some of the
Controversies surrounding
Your interview and the criticisms you got
He says the big one
That he was getting from people
People were emailing him
Messaging him, leaving comments
Saying that I'm on his wrong
About lace days
So I said, alright, let's test it out
Let's look it up
So we went on the Perseus Tufts
We went to Alice
We asked Alice in Wonderland
What does lace days mean?
Pirate and buccaneer
By the way, we were in Tampa Bay
Home with the buccaneers
We were in Tampa Bay, home with the lace days
So we found
Yeah, I showed Danny
How to use Alice
He was impressed
Fantastic, so it was real
Bacchic stuff
You went to some of the early Christian sources
I don't want to spoil it because people want to see it
But you did some early Christian stuff
And you were talking
Oh God, epiphanious for somebody
And
About all those sex
Neil, you got something about Christian sex
You like all those different
Groups, don't you?
You know they go back to the Nicolations
You know what I mean?
And you know what they were doing
And you were talking about the gospel
The gospel of these
People, right?
And what is
Mary do
To Jesus, please
In YouTube
Friendly and
Educationally
Let's be educational
It's a place of the museum
It's education
Tell me with that kind of
Feel
Tell me what Mary and Jesus are doing
Up on the mountain
We have a list about seven different groups
He lists
The Barbarites, the Zacchaeans
The Socrates
And he says he needs a whole list
Of these groups from all different
Areas from Asia Minor
Syria, Greece, Rome
North Africa
All these different areas and they're all these different names
They're named after their leader
Whoever their leader's name is, they're Zacchaeans or whatever
And he says that they all have in common
A gospel
It's called the Questions of Mary
And
He says in this gospel
Jesus takes Mary up on the mountain
And says and then what he does is
He performs a right
Some sort of magical right where
He produces a woman
Out of the side of his rib
So he becomes a male and female
At the same time and he produces the woman
Then he goes and continues
To have intercourse with this said woman
Produces sperm from this
And then
Hands it over to Mary
And says if you want to make it
Into the kingdom of heaven you must drink
My blood and eat my flesh
This is my sarks that I give to you
Mary goes oh I can't handle it
She falls down on the ground
He picks her up and he says
Don't you have any faith
Woman?
It sounds like something
Jesus would actually say too
That's the crazy part about this gospel
Now here's my question
So you can poo-poo that and say
Oh it's the
Certain group of Christians
Writing about another group of Christians
And poo-pooing what they're doing
And so it's obviously exaggerated
Can you believe though
That so many of these sources
All link up
And show us we know from other sources
The Ophites are drinking semen
Right we know that for a fact
The Ophites are a Christian sect
Right they're the serpents
I love the name man
Imagine what are you
I'm a sibling serpent
That's what the Christians
Were calling themselves
Right oh my god
Ophites and the ones on the outside
Of the Ophites were like oh no
We can't do that
So Mary is consuming
The hyma of Jesus
That's fantastic
Tell me something
Danny really quick
Danny Jones right
Did you enjoy
Wasn't it great I mean I personally
Think he's a fantastic interviewer
And I
I couldn't have had a better
A better time
During an interview a lot of times interviews are
Pain right and
And people are just they're not good at it
I thought Danny was
Magnifico what did you
How did you enjoy your interview
It was easy to talk to because
He's
You know you can tell he's
He's genuinely trying to find out
You know he's trying to he's trying to learn
About these sources he's trying to find things out
And it was so easy to
To talk to this guy because
He quite all of his questions were
Well thought out
And it was smooth
The whole three hours flew four hours
Actually flew by like it felt like
One hour it felt like so quick
It was great yeah fantastic
Beautiful
Beautiful okay I'm going to give you a chance
To say one thing and then
I'm going to jump to
Tonight's talk and if you want to
Hang around later dial up
If you need to go about your business go about
Your business but I'll leave you
With a comment what do you want to say
Yeah so we ended up talking
About the
Different
Different things that we find in Christianity
That seem to mimic
A lot of these mystery religions
Of the time period for example
The Hilaria ritual
Of in Rome also
Down in Egypt for Addis
And Osiris
And it's at the same week
That the Adonis is going on over
In Cyprus
And there's also a
Great Dionysia they call or not a rural
Dionysia which is going on
At that week so they had the rural Dionysia
And the city Dionysia in the winter time
The rural Dionysia happened in the spring
So this is spring equinox festival
Sprouting up and they all have
This thing in common where
A god is dead
Morned over
And then rises and in the case
Of the case of the Addis ritual
They bury this tree
A pine tree they bury the pine tree
They mourn for three days
They even have initiation ceremonies
Where the eunuchs are initiated
And becomes priests of Magna Mater
And then
They celebrate the Hilaria
Which is in Latin means rejoicing
And that's the resurrection of Addis
And this happens and it's a three day
Period from the day they bury the tree
To the day they rejoice
Is a three day on the third day
Just as Christ does
By the way Osiris has two women
That go to his tomb at the end of the story
Nephthys and Isis
Just as Jesus has Mary
And Martha
Go to the tomb at the end
So we're talking about all this stuff lining up
Epiphanius is an informant
He's got to give him that title
He's snitching on himself
He starts talking about all these other
Dushares and Aion
Being born of a version
At the winter solstice
Epiphanius was an informant
You got to give him credit where credit's due
That's why it doesn't surprise anybody
When you walk into a second century
Synagogue
And you see that it's got
Aion on the wall
Right? It doesn't surprise
Anybody in a bunch of Greek
No doubt, I loved your
Ia'o comments today
And
What you were doing was
You know, you can't
Undo that
Once somebody has seen
Oh, guess what
The Bible
Well, the Torah
Was written in the third century
B.C.
You know, and before that
There's Jack for any of this
When you go in
And you say, where are the quotes
Give me all the quotes in Hebrew
That they're passing down from the
No, they're not
It doesn't exist
You mean Judaism was created
In the third century
Oh, I love the fact
That you, you know
With the Dead Sea scrolls
One thing I want to make
I want people to understand
Is you never find those
Just Hebrew things sitting around
Because they don't exist
You always find them with the Greek
That they're copying from
You know what I saw
When I was in Nazareth
I was in Nazareth
And I was on a dig
There was a dig there
There were mosaics on the ground
And there was Orpheus
The biggest mosaic of all
There was a Dionysus one
A horned Dionysus one
That was a small one
The biggest one I saw
Was Orpheus with his lyre
And it was huge
And it was a first century
And I say something that might be
Second century
But it's first century AD
Somewhere in that time period
What I found in this place
Is the golden orphic tablets
This is Nazareth
So Jesus grew up
In this city completely
Hellenized
Greek mosaics all over the place
There's a theater there too
Yeah, and about this language
People always ask what language
Jesus is speaking
Any of the Hebrew
It's all the regular variety
I didn't realize
Kid was sent to Egypt
Where'd he probably go in Egypt
Wherever he went
They were speaking Greek
Nobody ever asked
Why doesn't Jesus come back
From where he was raised
Speaking Egyptian
Because they didn't freaking speak
Egyptian in Egypt
They spoke Greek
And who is the they
That I'm talking about
You can sit around and come up
With funny ideas about
What was this and what was that
The fact is through the museum
And Alexandria came
The greatest work from antiquity
Intellectual, the greatest intellectual work
All of the great doctors come through
Alexandrian physicians
Hellenistic physicians
Who were doing for the first time
The first time
They're doing regular autopsies
They're doing regular
Anatomical dissections
Not only that
They're doing vivisections
Vivisections, they get a criminal
You know, take them apart
Look it, I saw a description
Of a dude's peristalsis
That's the motion
Of your intestines
And the doctors have just cut this guy open
And they're looking at it
And they're following the movement
And they're studying digestion
That's all from Alexandria
That's the Egypt that Jesus went to
And when he comes back
And everybody there thinks he's a brainiac
It's because of that education
So what language is Jesus speaking
I dare you to give me one
Friggin' quote
In Hebrew, Arabic, Syriac
Anywhere
No, no, no, all of his quotes are Greek
Surprise, surprise
People don't understand it
Judaism is an invention
It's the Hellenic world
Moses is
Musaeus
And it is an Orphic
Saturnian or satanic
Religion
Sun, moon, stars, dawn
Dawn prayers
Yeah
Orpheus
And we have the Derveni propyrus
Which is the one
The actual physical copy
Not the text dated to
The 6th century BC
The physical fragments 4th century BC
The physical copy of it
Not the dating of the text
The text itself, 6th century BC
But in this text
Orpheus is called theologian
And he's constantly
Revealing
It's the word apocalypse
He's the apocalypse, the revealer
It's an apocalyptic genre
Which is Orphic
By nature
This is what sprouts up in Alexandria
During this time period
During this Hellenistic era
These Alexandrians who are
Greek-speaking Jewish people
Who are, you know, it brought to Alexandria
After Ptolemy wins a war
In Gaza against Demetrius
This is real history, look it up
Anyways, they start
They start talking
Making up stories, they start writing stories about this guy named Moses
Who they say
Their earliest sources we got
From Aristobelus
From Hecateus
From all these different, from his early, early sources
Say that his
This is Mousseus
And he was the
Either in some sources, he's either the father of Orpheus
Or the son of Orpheus, depending on which one's talking about
Either way, they're connecting him to Orpheus
And they're claiming Orpheus is this
Psalmist
The word Psalm
Means played by a harp
Sung by a harp
Apocalypticism
Theology itself
Is an Orphic
Pythagorean
You know, sort of genre
That we get in Alexandria
It becomes Yawism
It's where you get Yaw
Even Microbius, even Microbius is citing
Where does Microbius cite when he talks about Yaw
Orpheus
Yeah, and remember
You said today, you were gonna say it
As I was watching an interview, you mentioned Plutarch
And you were gonna say that
Plutarch says
Judaism is an offshoot
Of Bacchic worship
He says it
In antiquity
You know what that is? That is a
First-hand
Witness
That is an eyewitness
You cannot get better historical
Evidence
Than an eyewitness who's watching what's going on
And reporting it
Plutarch does
Plutarch cites Hecateus of Abdera
Who lived
Four centuries before him
Four, maybe five centuries before him
Yeah, Plutarch is late first, early second
Hecateus is
Fourth century
Late fourth century, early third century
BC
There are three centuries away from each other
He cites Hecateus of Abdera
You know what he says?
He says
Egyptians use the term
Ammon
Not just for one god
But for any of the gods
And they use it as a form of address
To close an incantation
He says the word
Amen
It comes from the god
Ammon
Who is the representative of the cosmos itself
The hidden one
So when you call amen to somebody
You're calling to the hidden one
Plutarch cites Hecateus of Abdera
Who he says
Told them all this
By the way, before Hecateus of Abdera
Nobody ever uses amen
In any sources
Ever
Right, so you
There's no ugeritic text that say amen
After a prayer
You know who's lips
Produce
Ammon
Over and over and over again
Jesus the Christ baby
Yo, you get it
He's in there
You got it
Perfect entry
To tonight's talk
Thank you Neil
I'm going to pull you off
And if you want to come back later
Feel free everybody
Take a look at Neil's interview
With Danny Jones
Love it
Satan brother
Hit the
Slides for me
People want to dive in deep tonight
And I want to start here
Oh god, I want to start it
Does that mean do they have to do something every time I say that
Are you ready?
Oh nox
Puthonus Medeon
Hecatebolemante
Oh god
What was that you just said
Oh
Nox
Oh lord
Of pytho
You who rule
Who strike from afar
You were mantic
What are we doing?
Oh god
We're addressing
God
Okay, I wanted to bring you that
Because that's the introduction that we've got
What is this from?
This is the Orphic Argonautica
Okay, the Orphic Argonautica
And people will debate the dates
The fact is we don't know
And linguistically
Some people will argue this thing has to be later
It has to be in the Ana Domini range
Some people say
Look, it's Orphic
And it's probably 5th, 4th century
BC
Right, so okay
Does it matter where it falls?
Sure it does
Evidence-wise, it matters where it falls
But what we're going to do
Is we're going to glean
Tonight we're going to glean from the vocabulary
And I'm going to show you some things that you'd never
You didn't think
You didn't think
I want you to look at that third word
In the middle of there
Medeon
That's where we're going to get the Medusa
This is addressing
Apollo
The Pythian Lord
The Pythian Wanox
What's a Wanox?
A Wanox is a Bronze Age
Um
Chief
Bronze Age Chief
This is at a time when you have Chiefs
And you have
Potnia
You have Queens
Chiefs and Queens
And Apollo
Is one of them
And he's the one who shoots from afar
The Mantic one
Who
Works on this
Go Chewie hit the next one
Watch this people
What is the Medeon?
Oh god a guardian
A ruler
You thought Medusa was
Guardian
These are priests
A guardian ruler
Always Zeus
Fantastic
Ruling from Ida
Which is the rulership
They use it of Apollo
If you just keep going down
Who they're going to be using it for
And then you get to number two
The Feminine Formedusa
That is just a part of
People of the verb
Medo
This is a Greek thing
I'm going to take you back
People have been asking
The surprise tonight
The Anunnaki
Okay
Oh goodness
We get to see
What they actually were
Were they UFO
People and aliens
I'm sorry
I'm sorry
I know people are disappointed
They wanted me to talk about them as aliens
No
Of course there's a much more
Realistic, scientific and anthropological
Explanation for them
We just look at the text
The text tell us who they
Are
They're a real historical
People
And we get to meet them tonight
That was a little bit of a surprise
Thank you Satanic congregation
For hanging in there
Purple purple purple
Hit us with the next one
Boom
And I wanted you to see
What is that Medusa
The Medusa above
Right there
Look at the
That's the guardian goddess
And many of you are going to see the name
Aphrodite
Right after it you're going to be confused
Because the little bit that you know
Of Greek history you're getting through mythology
That's where it's just being transmitted
And mythology is turned into
Entertainment
Just like the stage is turned into entertainment
You little consuming
Ooh
Don't say that
Everything is profane
But it had
A sacred intent
The theater today movie
Cinema
That's profane
It is entertainment
In antiquity
They're doing it to purify
And they're not doing it for cash
By the way
We're still not monetized
We're still not taking any rewards
For what I'm showing you
Because the devil hates that
Fantastic
You know what
Let them have it
I love the fact that we have an audience
That you know we don't have to watch commercials
Do you want me to advertise some of you
No
I don't want to do that either
Because you know what
I've watched the back alleys
I know what they do in them
When they're trying to get things
It's shameful
Okay, let's not do it
Let's not do it
You're not going to see any
Paid me twenty dollars and you can say what you want
Right?
Oh yeah
It's disgusting
This is the temple of the muse baby
Let's hit it, let's hit that one
What about these goddesses
Is your Medusa?
What Aphrodite is your Medusa
You thought you knew Aphrodite
You do not
You do not know the mother of the Roman people
You do not
Look at her
Who's after Aphrodite?
Nemocene
And who is that?
That means memory in Greek
And everybody knows
Who's the mother of memory?
Danny Jones was asking me
Think of Nemocene
Memory
Do you know who memory is?
She's gorgeous
She's the mother of the muses
Oh
And it doesn't even penetrate
It bounces off your uninitiated head
And it doesn't penetrate
That's why we need the Christos
Tonight is about the Christos
And she or he
And who's in charge
Lava, hit me with the next
Hit me with the next text
Wait, go back to the Medusa
I just want to see
Of memory
And as you follow down, you're going to see
The immortal one, Athena
Athena is there
And who else? Artemis
Artemis is there
They are all
A band of women
Who are
Those queens
From the Bronze Age
Artemis
Do you know what Artemis does?
She hunts
She kills
Her bands of followers will kill you
Yeah
She's known to strike from afar
She became a symbol
Of the huntress
Who takes your life
If you're a woman
Isn't that neat? Who is that force?
The force that takes your life
If you're a woman. She's called Luciferra
She's given that title
Of light bringer
Right, Luciferra
You mean the devil was female
Before he was male? Yep
Do you have a problem with that?
It's what they call in Greek
Defoe
To natured
Love it
Absolutely love it
Alright, let's go
Those were Bronze Age goddesses
We just got into there with the Medusa
Let's keep going
This is just, I wanted to show you the verb
To protect
A rule over
And then you can trace the history of it
That's fantastic, go to the next one
For people in history
Who think, hey
Women did not rule
The name there
Is that they did
The name tells you otherwise
To the unreality of what the historians give you
Because historians
Suck
And do not work with primary sources
We had an ancient historian
Who came
Into the classics department
And he was awful
And everybody knew it
Everybody knew it
His translation capacity
Was garbage
It was about where for an entry level graduate
Students should be
Why is that?
I don't hold it against him
But because he was a historian
He wasn't a classical philologist
He was a historian
But here's the problem
If you can't read those sources
You don't know what the hell is going on
You don't
All your ideas, you guys know
I don't give you ideas
Pontification
Nundep
Eero, foiito
Sapendato
Deus, oistros
Here's that, oistros
The Dan McClallan doesn't like
Look at the end of the first line
Oistroes, Dan
Now watch, Dan
I know this is up there
I know you can identify
It's Greek, I'm talking Dan McClallan
I know you can identify
This is Greek, but I know
read it. I know you can't. I know you can't. And it shows the
extent of where the Bible education is able to take you.
It's not very, it's not able to take you very far. Here we're
going to go a little bit deeper. What is this? This is
Orphic Argonautica, man. And this is Orpheus. Look what I've
brought you tonight. Shame on you, Satanic congregation. Shame
on you. This one's for you tonight for not knowing that I
would bring you the best. Just a little bit. I took some to
here. Here's one for me. Oh, too. I gave it to I had to. Okay,
let's go to the next one. That one. Yeah. So what happens?
This is Orpheus talking to you. And what does he say? What does
he say? Now's the time when the estrus, the mania, it's burning.
It's burning. It's flying through the air. It's burning my
brain. What is it doing? It's separating me from my bodily
frame and shooting me up on wings to Uranus. You, you can
learn from my voice. All the things that are hidden. Sorry, a
little dramatic, but that was my translation of Orpheus. And
he's telling, he's telling his audience there. He's saying,
look, this is what's going on. And this is the state of
oysters. Give me the next slide, because I think we have the
oysters. Was I smart enough? Oh, I just wanted to see what a
what does the oysters do? It wanders in the air. It wanders.
Huh. You're wondering. Fantastic. Watch this. What is
oysterous? Because some of you have come in new. I know a lot
of Satanic countries, you know what the oysterous is, right?
We all knew when Dan said he was like, this is something, right?
And everybody in here was like, yeah, oh God, you're going to
get it, right? Oysterous. Here's our gadfly. Here's our gadfly.
It's something that stings. And you'll see it metaphorically,
right? Something that will drive you mad. That's how this word
is used to drive a person mad. That's what oysterous does.
That's what the prophet must have. It's what the prophet must
have in order to teach you. That's why I go to the very
bottom. What does it say? What does it say? Any vehement
desire and the frenzy and the madness? Look at the last two
lines of that paragraph in section two, Roman numerals to
madness and frenzy. Look where it's being used. It's being used
of the mean ads. It's being used of the mean ads. Okay, so take
it down. It's an idea floating in the mind of the speakers of
Greek, which by the first century on a Dominic, when Jesus is
around, is everybody is everybody. Okay, especially in
the East, you know, they're still holding out with the Latin,
right? They have a swamp. Greece hasn't swam. They're still
fighting. You know, stuff hasn't switched over where it's just
government stuff, right? It's not, you know, they're still,
they're still working. But in the East, the Greek is everywhere.
It's just, it's too bad. The Eastern Mediterranean, people
think it's the boundaries of the Mediterranean, where the action
is. No, no, no, it's the sea. It's the Mediterranean sea that
thala, so that's the source of everything. Right? That Greek is
spreading through the islands. Oh, God. Oh, it's gorgeous. Let's
keep going back to the text. Okay, I'm going to give people this
thing. Thank you. Look, what's happening, people? What do I
what does Orpheus say he has for you? He says he has
Christmuss. Those are oracles. Oracles. Oracles that are what
aretus unspeakable. Right? Night. Wait a minute. What? They're
oracles about the Wanak's Bacchus. And they're the oracles of
night. And you say, What does that mean? Remember what the
number added up to it? Added up the sibling sibling number. It
added up to pseudo Nick's. Nausea conformant was was, you
know, ecstatic over that one. Loved it, right? Why are they
talking about Nick's because Black Knight is our Uranian
deity Medusa. Isn't that gorgeous? Isn't that gorgeous? Think
of that Aphrodite. Think of that Aphrodite. Isn't that nice?
Right? Mm. Memory. Give me to know Aphrodite. Oh, God, love
this. Love this stuff, right? Now you're in the mystery. And
why do I say Aphrodite? Brother, come here. You don't see that
this is all going to Aphrodite. The people in the Arabian
Peninsula did. They told us, Oh, my God, what? Oh, where are we
going? We're going to Aphrodite because that's who we
worship Bacchus and Aphrodite Dionysus and Aphrodite. That's
the foundation of civilization. The Bacchic Empire is what
brought civilization and it did so through the oracles. Isn't
that gorgeous? We're in third time. Two years of Apollo, one
year of Bacchus and in that one year, that's the third year of
purging. Oh, three and a half and three and a half. Love it.
It's gorgeous. Let's do the next one. Sneak this one in. Look,
people, this has got some some heavy gun stuff in it. Okay.
Bring in the Nephilim. Where's the Nephilim? Come here, Nephilim.
You. I don't care. I don't care how big you think you are. Come
here. Right on the booty. Why? What am I going to sing about if I
am Orpheus? This is what it's saying, right? Orpheus says,
I'm going to sing of you of the offspring of Primo, right? Those
who did these terrible works who were born from earth. What did
they do? Are you ready? What did they do? They dropped down
their semen from Uranus on you. Oh, God. They dropped down
their semen. That's what it says. It's not just any kind of
semen either. It's Lugron. What is Lugron? That's like ill
fated. It's like dark. What's that morning? It makes me want
to mourn. Wait a minute. Did we get to the party and we're
finally here and the stuff is finally kicking in? No, right?
It's it's about to though. And the way it's going to kick in
is I'm going to introduce you to the Nephilim, these
these earth-born ones who are sending down the semen up
Uranus, right? And they were an earlier generation. They were
an earlier set of people. Let's go see what they did. So this
is exciting. This is like the Bronze Age telling us, look,
there are these older people, right? Who are they? Well, in
order to find them, to find out who they are, Nephilim, right?
Everybody on the there's there's hundreds of thousands if not
millions of views on garbage about the Nephilim. Garbage,
Anunnaki garbage. Garbage. You want to see? I'm going to show
you right now with the text exactly how garbage it is. And
I'm going to pull some Hebrew in. Ready? Are you ready? Give me
give it to you. That's just for Dan and Kip, right? Okay, I
want you to see that these are the earth-born, right? These are
the children of Gaia or the giants. The giants. Go, go, go.
Who are the giants? Gigas is a Greek word. Gigas is a Greek
word. Who are we summoning? Oh, who is this? It's the book of
Enoch. Probably 1st century BC. Oh, who is it? I don't know.
Who cares, right? The fact is this document, this
Hellenistic document, it reads as if it was a contemporary with
the Septuagint, right? Although I'm not sure it's that old.
It may be later, like 1st century, but whatever.
Okay, Ka'elabon. I'm going to read this to you, pre-people.
Are you ready? Now, this is the book of Enoch and people say,
why is that not in Hebrew? Because it's not. It never existed in
Hebrew. Here's what it existed in. Here's the
Giza Fragment that we have of it. Probably from some library that the
Christians burned down. Who knows? And Ka'elabon,
He'altois, Gunaikon. Oh, they got, they, okay, so
they took, they took the, they took wives.
Took, you know, each person, each of these people that we're going to talk about,
you know, on what did they do? They took wives, whoever they, they wanted to,
and they, they entered into these unions with their wives.
And what did they do? They soiled themselves.
Wait, what? They soiled themselves. They died. They stained themselves.
Okay, sounds like something's going on, but let's see.
Let's see. They died themselves. And what else? And they taught,
they taught their wives how to do what, how to do what, how to make
drugs, how to collect roots, how to identify specific plants,
and they stained themselves. Who are we talking about?
We're talking about a group of people with a technical knowledge that's
obviously superior to the groups of people that they're infiltrating or
that they're immigrating to be among. And this is not uncommon. You get it in
Italy too, right? Medea steps off the boat in Italy and somebody's
noticed that somebody's been bitten by a certain
type of snake and she has a remedy and cures a guy and they're like,
huh? Holy crap, we'll build you a temple, right? Because they've been plagued by
that snake for years and you know what? They just, they didn't develop it.
They probably, they were, you know, speaking Martian or, you know, not from Mars,
but Oskar or Umbria, who knows, one of the, maybe Latin, a bunch of
hot dwellers, you know what I mean? Just backwards. So when you come in
with that new technology, are you an alien? Now for everybody who wants to think
that's an alien, just have at it. You know, enjoy,
enjoy. Somebody from space. Yeah, no, that's not what the evidence points to.
The evidence points to here are groups of people who are technologically advanced
and as a matter of fact, that's exactly what it says. They become famous
through their tech and what is their tech? Enoch tells us their tech,
their tech is drugs.
Autononki are not aliens. They're drug runners. Oh, God.
They're people with a superior knowledge, dude. That's all. Go to the next text.
Let's see these guys. Where do they show up? You know, and it's because the,
it's through the, notice it's through the ladies.
It's through the ladies. I'm going to show you some things that are,
you think, is this a man's art? You'd think.
What kind of art is this and why is the text differentiating?
Watch, watch what happens. It'll show us. It'll arc to the original Christ.
It's gorgeous because what we're doing is we're tracing the knowledge,
the pharmaceutical knowledge. Just follow the pharmaceutical knowledge
and see where it ends up. That's all we're doing.
Um, wonderful. Isn't that gorgeous, Cersei? Pull up the Bible.
Pull up the Bible now. That's what we need. Look at verse number four.
This is from Genesis chapter six.
Do you hear the word giant? There were giants there in the earth in those days,
right? And after that, when the sons of God came into the daughters of men
and they knew them in a very, very intimate,
lovely, stinky way. And what happens? There were giants, right?
They're giving birth to these generations that are bathed in the tech that they have got.
They're burning off mortality. And do you know what happens?
You change stature itself. These are hormone analogues, right?
And what are they doing? What are the giants doing?
How does it describe them on the last line? They're op ionis, op ionis.
Wait, what? Okay. They're from the ion. Hang on to that thought.
And then the very last thing he says is hoy atropoy hoy onnomastoy.
These are people who were very famous, very famous, known for that knowledge.
They were big people. Yeah. These people were important, gigas.
They're all, wait a minute. They're the gigas. They're from that stage of the medusa.
Do you understand? They're using the very same serpents.
It's tech and they're spreading the cult tech. Give me the next one.
Give me the next one. Are they from outer space? Why do people always jump?
Right? People, do be scientific. Give me, you got it?
Let's look at the translation of this. In those days and for some time after, giant nephalites.
What? That text didn't say nephalites. It's because everybody has bought the lie
that the Hebrew text comes before the Septuagint.
Right? Remember, the Masoretic text is from the 10th century on odomony.
Right? That's when that thing shows up. That's not real. That's a creation.
What does the old text say? It says what I just showed you in Greek about giants.
So the use of the word nephalites is only coming through a rabbinic tradition.
Right? And because Christianity needs that rabbinic tradition to prop itself up on,
it can't contradict that. So it's a very, very sticky problem for theologians,
for Bible students, for Christians who just are practicing their Christianity.
People who are born again and have seen the forgiving blood of Jesus Christ.
It's for those people. I love this. Whenever the sons of God had intercourse,
seriously, that's not very elegant. They're heroes. It doesn't say that, but famous warriors.
They're a little bit elaborating there. It doesn't say anything about being warriors.
But okay, fantastic. Let's go to the next one. Now you know why translation sucks so bad, right?
Watch this people. What is the nephilim? Look how they define it now, right? So now this lying
translation based upon a lying tradition is telling you this is coming from this word.
And how do they define this word with the Greek word giant?
Do you know what nephilim is? It's a made up term. It was a forced term in order to translate the
word giant. It doesn't exist. It is a fabrication. What is the nephilim? Nothing. There are nothing
in history. Yeah. Historia. That's the inquiry, right? When you know yourself, did you know your
religion was a fabrication, right? Welcome to the school of monism. That's what they do. They
did it in Egypt too, and they ended up getting Okinawan with this terrible art with these big
pregnant bellies on people. I don't know. It wasn't pregnant women. It was on pregnant men.
They looked pregnant anyway. It's the style. Anyway, everybody's like,
and they got rid of it, right? So, okay, give me the text. Give me, watch what, look what. Now,
what is the root? Nafo. What does it mean to fall? To fall. So they're like, huh, how can we represent
because we don't actually know, right? We know that these are famous people, right? What do we
have to do? We have to turn them into something they're not. Who are we making those fallen?
Call them the fallen, right? No, no, no. What are you doing in the third century with your Torah?
What are you doing? You're creating something to justify your past.
You're mimicking what the Greeks are doing with their texts. You're doing the same thing.
That's why you call Adam, Adam, because it's a well-known name within the right, right? It's
all about that right. That mystery is everything. That's the predominant religious engine when the
Torah or the Septuagint, the Pentateuch, whatever you want to call, the Pentateuch and the prophets,
whatever you want to call, that's when that's being written. The mystery is everything.
This is a Telestarian that Moses builds. Oh, God. Oh, God, you mean Moses builds a Greek
invention for telling the future by hearing the voice of God? Yes. Oh, isn't that great? Love it,
man. Hail Satan. It's a Saturnian power, a Saturnian power, baby. Now, listen, you want to understand
it. If you're sitting there and you haven't been killed and revived, if you haven't been killed
and revived, and I'm not talking about just still any killing and revival. I'm talking about the one
that puts your brain in a state where you're able to correctly identify the images that you're
interacting with. What? Yeah, no, it's a mystery thing, right? If you're trained, we can train you
to do this. Okay, let's get to it, right? If you're not woken up, then, you know, and let's
admit, none of us are. None of you are. You know what's funny? All the hippies and the people talking
about psycho death or ego death and all that bull crapery. Yeah, do you realize that you don't even
know what you're doing? There's a way to do this in a polypharmaceutical approach that involves your
death and your entry into a specific state that will allow you to bring back from the other side
real quanta, real information packets. Yeah, congratulations. You know, getting stoned on
something and wandering around in a cabbage patch is going to do absolutely nothing. And the Greeks
who invented this, the woman who started this Christing, she would tell you, first of all,
what are you doing? Right? You don't know what you're doing. It's what Bacchus says. You don't
know what you're doing. It's the awakening that you need. That's what the Renaissance always brings,
and that's what these texts will bring. Are you ready? Oh, let's see that for a minute. Who's
that? Oh, that's, I don't know what's going on. That's fantastic, though. Bring that. It's staining
my brain. Let's go. We got to, we got to finish these. Here's the word for giant people. Here's
where it's originally from. Let's get the next one. The tribe of giants it talks about. That's
beautiful. I want to give you what, um, what is this? The strong or the mighty? Is that how
there? Is that how we're starting to get this? Okay, give me the next one. I don't even know
what the point of that was. It's like taking a third graders copy of something. Today, people,
I just want to tell you, today, I had a lot of downtime because of internet issues. And by the
way, people, I don't need a better camera. Thanks for recommending that all the time. I really
appreciate it. It's my internet. I get a gigabytes per second, right? Eight. I said eight, right?
Megabytes. Sorry. Sorry. Wrong realm. Chewie corrected me. May, you know, I'm even way smaller,
way smaller. Did I say gigabytes? Cause the giants, okay. Here's the eye on the eternity. Look,
it's opposite to chronos time. Time. It is not eternity. It is that which is opposite to time.
Okay. Are you ready? Well, I'm going to take you to the ion and we're doing this for a good reason.
Boom. Here we, here we'll be the next one. Um, psuche, take eye on. Think of the soul and ion
as being, um, both parts, two parts of one duality that is existence. Okay. If you take those two
concepts and say, oh, they got married and that's us. Go to the next one. Um, here's your ion,
right? And the Christians will say, Oh God, this is eternal. No, I want you to see,
I want you to see the, the, um, look at the first line under a, and it talks about Poseidon
returned by orange. And then at the end, it says in parentheses properly, and then it gives you
the diagramma in the middle of the word. I won. So again, this is a bronze age concept. This is
so far before Christian Christianity and Judaism that it's, it's a, it's an unfamiliar,
Saturnian or satanic world. Yeah. And who is the ion? He's the dude when you go into a Jewish
synagogue in the second century or first century, and you walk in and you see him on the wall with
Greek surrounding him in a zodiac. You'll know where your Jewish roots are. And I'm sure that
there's a lot of people who are suddenly like, Oh, that kind of makes sense. I kind of won't,
I've always been looking at that zodiac thing. Yeah. Congratulations. Welcome home.
Welcome home. Your God is called ion. Fantastic. Oh God. Oh God. It's Orphic people. Right. It's
Orphic. Fantastic. Um, go to the next one. Okay. Now here's what I'm going to give you. And this one
is for, uh, Dan McClellan, because this is Pindar. And I know for a fact, because Pindar people
is really, really difficult. Pindar, you know, some, there are some classes somewhere. I'm sure
who were like, No, no, I can do Pindar. No problem. Pindar's no problem. But most classes, if they're
honest with themselves, know that Pindar is of, is of the more difficult persuasion. He's a lot of
Dorian. And it's just, you know, it's just, I don't know. Dorian is just, it's disruptive. I think
the Athenians were right. Um, they had reached that apex of the language. They were able to draw
where you can draw to the ether. And I don't think that Dorian was doing them any favors or pushing
them up. You know what I mean? It was just, uh, the Ionians, you could ask the Ionians to, they
would be like, yep, a Dorian. That's why the Spartans are the way they are. Look, I studied
with a guy from the area where Sparta is, and no offense to any modern Lacanians, but
Lacedaemonians. I don't, you know, I love you, baby, but you just didn't, your ancestors
kind of dropped the ball and the Athenians were like, you suck, right? Yeah, Athens. Anyway,
this is Pindar. And Pindar writes, um, in his fourth Pythian ode, you hear Pytho there, right?
Python, right? Okay. In his fourth Pythian, he writes about the great prophecy of the Medwa of
Medea. And in it, he says, what does he say? He says, Hera, listen to this, what happened here.
I'm just going to translate this for Hera, right? Cause a very sweet desire to enter in
to those young men who were half God. Yeah. And these are heroes. These are heroes. And what are
you, or at least they're going out to try to show their heroes, right? You know, it's a, it's a thing
you do. It's the thing you do. You go out and you do, you do great things, right? And it tests you.
How do you kid? Get out there, do something great. You bonehead, right? That's the way of life. And
what's happening? What's happening? Oh God, she didn't want, these are all the people on the ship,
the Argo, right? And she didn't want anybody. This is what she's putting in their mind. It's a fear.
And I'm going to put in your mind the fear that you're going to stay home with mama,
that you're going to stay home with mama and do nothing, right? In a world that doesn't give you
any danger, you're just going to end up dragging out the ion.
You know what else you're going to be? And you're not even going to be able to find that best of
drugs. The one that helps you when you are in death. Yeah. And you won't bring out your virtue.
You're not going to. That's what they're afraid of. Hera is making them afraid. They won't be able
to live up to that mystery, to be able to find that pharmacone. You see that last word on the
bottom? Left hand side, last line. Pharmacon. That's what they're looking for, right? Do you want to
have that? Where do they, where do all these knuckleheads end up? They end up with Medea. And
what is she doing? She's providing with the pharmacone. She takes it. Where does she take it
out of? I've told you time after time. She takes it from her vagina. This is the first communion.
And I'll show you in the Greek how it is the first communion. It is from her
life fluid that all of us talk about salvation. Yeah. Some of you talk about it through the
avenue of a dude who got arrested in a public park with a naked kid screaming, I am not a child
trafficker. That's how some of you got it. Yeah. Fantastic. Salvation. The gospel, right, baby?
She's the origin of the good news. You know what the good news is? It's a prescription. It's the
power of a prescription to bring you health. You didn't even know that. Why do you think he's the
great physician, bonehead? Right? Come on, Christians, get up off the ground. Get up off the ground.
Know your own things. You don't even know your own Bible. It's disgusting. I'll tell you when I
taught seminarians, I told them on the first day of class, first day of class, you do not know the
Bible. You do not ever read it. You've never read it before. And by the end of the third semester,
they're all telling me, oh, I understand what that means now. Yeah, exactly. That's the power
of this language. Until you get there, don't say that you know this stuff, right? Bring up Pendar.
What else? What else did she do? So she put in the head. She put in the head of these young heroes
who are going off to do, they're going to abduct, they're going to take a fleece with a song in it
that is part of the mystery. It's the directions for the communion. It is the life, right? It's why
it has a dragon posted there. The dragon, just like the Medusa, is a position within Bronze Age
society, right? It's not a dragon. Oh, it's not. Where is Tolkien? Where is Tolkien? If Tolkien was
here, I would, what would I do? I would make eunuch for the kingdom of heaven. That's what I would do.
Here's what we go. They don't want to be left behind, right? And someday,
undangered, they want to find that drug. Give me the next one. Give me the next one.
Mm. Mm. Look at this. This is John 316. What is it that Jesus is offering? Remember in Mark,
he offers you drugs that induce death, right? And snakes and vulnerability to snakes. Awesome.
Which goes along with the formula. I mean, that's the whole deal. That's what boy is doing, right?
The boy is providing an immunity, basically, for the poison that is the thosemum. Okay.
John 316. Here he is, right? Oh, God. God, so love the world, the cosmos. The cosmos is the present
functioning, or it's the lines. It's difficult to describe. The cosmos is that which beautifies,
most essentially. And when I say beautify, I mean to make healthy. You know what a woman's
cosmos is? Literally, an integrity. It's the chest that she possesses, that contains all of her drugs,
cosmetics, and anything for personal hygiene. Yeah. It's her salvation, right? Those elements
are her salvation. And what does it do? It brings her, it brings her to a place of health.
And now, if nobody's figured out the sacred name of Aphrodite, the name of Rome, then something is
wrong. I am not doing something right. But I'm confident. I'm confident you will come to the
place of health and salvation. I'm confident. Fantastic. That's where we are. Give me the
next source. Quick, before it wears off. No, he loved the world so much. He did. He gave his son.
He gave his onlyborn son in order that everyone who believes in him, right, may not perish but have
Zohane Ionian. And that's why we brought in the ion, right? Because that's what we're looking for.
Give me the next one. And I just want to make sure that you understand this ion, right, is defined
here in Greek. Now, they're going to give you period of existence. This is what the Greek says,
the Greek definition, totellos. It's the completion that bounds the time of each person's life.
That's called the ion. It's the completion. And that's why a telete is somebody who has been
initiated in the mystery because they have been able to see the completion of their life.
When you enter into death, you become one who is now outside of time in ion.
Don't ask me what the physics are. I don't understand it. But this is what they're doing.
And if you haven't been there, you don't have ionic life. Cicero's walking around very happy.
Oh, God, I'm so glad I went to the mysteries. I wasn't alive before I went. I didn't see the world.
Why was he able to do that? Because they resurrected the queen of the underworld.
Right? How do you think you're going to see the completion of your life without seeing her?
Oh, you say, I'm a misogynist. I don't have female divinities. Guess what? Guess what?
That's why you got to love the devil, man, because this is his place and you're here being
tortured for a reason. Isn't that gorgeous? Somebody once told me a Jungian psychoanalyst
slash therapist slash all around good person told me, oh, my, you're so handsome. Thank you.
I know. This Jungian told me. He said, look, the one thing that they used to crack Nazis
after World War II was mother. If you make him, he said, you can open up a Nazi with any kind
of psychology and they have defenses. They will not resist until you approach him with the mother.
And for some reason, the mother breaks him down. Isn't that gorgeous? You know what the enemy of
fascism is? A mother. I guess it's because a mother wouldn't, you know, a mother wouldn't do what a
fascist would do, I guess. Yeah. It's not, I don't know. It's some kind of people. I'm telling you,
I'm just a person of average intelligence. I don't get the physics of all this stuff,
but there's something there about the mother that breaks down that Nazi tendency. Yeah,
that gets inside. You can really pierce somebody's conscience through a mother. Love that. What would
your mother say? You jerk, right? I guess that's the idea, right? Right? I wonder if he could just
smack Hitler in the face and say, what do you think all the mothers of the world think about you
and your stupid mustache? Right? Something like that. I don't know. I'm sure the Jungians didn't
do that. You know, Jung had a chance to declare Hitler insane. He didn't do it. Can you imagine
how that would have changed history? Oh, it's too bad Jung didn't have the gnats. Let's go,
little goofy. I'm glad he gets, come here, Jung. Come here. Oh, you're so disgusting with your
little wimpy response. You let the Nazis take us over. Stupid Jung. Here we go. State of completion
or maturity. Right? That's another. That's a secondary definition. I just wanted to bring that in.
Have you been to the Ion? Because you haven't been born again, brother. And what's happening here?
I want to give you this. Look, the Christ, the original Christ, of course, is Medea.
Right? The original Christ. And what is Pindar doing? He's saying, look, in the 17th generation,
the, from Thera, as Medea gave her prophecy, it's going to be fulfilled, right? And this is the,
or it was fulfilled, excuse me. And who is Medea? She is that daughter, that zaminase daughter of
EETs, who is himself a child of God. The sons of God came into the daughters of men. Do you know who
she is? She is the child. She is the giant. The sons of God came into the daughters of men. Who
did they give birth to? Well, first they taught them all about drugs, and then they gave birth to
giants. Oh, Medea. Medea is a giant right from the earth. Oh, God. The first Christ. Isn't this
gorgeous? What is she going to do? She's going to make it so that you can be born again, so that
you can be awake. You can thank her later. You can thank her later. All of Christianity, all of
Judaism goes back to this woman. This is Pindar. Thank you, Pindar. And what does Pindar say?
She's zaminase. She's that child of EETs. And what is her mouth? Her mouth is divine. That's what it
says there. From her mouth divine, she breathes out. She is the despoina colchon. She is that queen,
that bronze age queen, who has total power, right? Makes us afraid. You know, the dragon,
they say, is only afraid of one, and that's Medea. Isn't that gorgeous? Dragon's only afraid of her,
right? Now, what did Jason do? Jason was like, I'm a rich Greek guy, and I had a pedorastic
relationship with Chiron, and I know all the arts and magic. And by the way, he uses the sex drugs
on some Islanders to get him to have sex with him and all his guys. He's a pervert just like Jesus.
But anyway, and he deserves what he got. Yeah, he deserved it. Definitely. Coward. He was a coward too.
Historical. History's greatest coward. Okay, go to the next one. What are we doing here? This is
zaminase. What is Medea? She's raging. Notice the raging word of violence. What's a zaminase logos?
It's a word of violence. I have a word of prophecy. Oh, yeah, I got a word of violence for you.
Are you ready? This is who she is. Zaminase. She rages. She rages. Now, you know why Odysseus was
afraid her sister was going to cut off his testicles, right? Well, sometimes she's called her sister.
Sometimes it's her aunt, right? Whatever, right? Yeah, love it. Fantastic. Let's go to the next one.
Oh, where are we? We're with her. And what happens? Boom. Oh, I wanted you to see so what we're with
the Medea, right? And we're in that Christing experience so that we can see the Ion so that
our eyes are opened and we can have that Ion. And what is that Ion? Remember, this is the
thing in the Jewish synagogue. This is what they worship, right? This is what Jewish people
worship before they worship. Yahoo, right? Yahoo is derived from Ion. And what is the Ion? This
is an ancient Greek. This is from Ezekius, a definition of what it is. It's the Beos ton
Anthropa. It's the life of humanity. It's the life of humanity. The Hippocrates, he says, took this
and he quotes them. The Hippocrates took this and turned it into what is existing within your
spinal column. It's that which gives you life. It's that which innervates you. The Neura, or where
we get our word nerve, is what they thought was that life capacity that can be channeled through
the body, right? This is that, oh, God, this is that most powerful. And they say that you can't live
without this, right? So, wait a minute. You said, I thought Ion just means eternal. Do you see how
stupid Bible scholars are? Do you see how stupid they are? Let's go back to the next one, Chewie.
I can't, I can't deal with any stupid Bible scholars anymore. They're laughable. They're
laughably bad. Yeah. Okay, so we're back to the Bible. Yeah. This is, I wanted you to see how bad
this translation was. It's just verse three of Hosea, Hosea 13. I think it is 13, 3. I'm pretty
sure 13, 3. And he says, on account of this, they will be what? They will be as clouds,
as clouds, yeah, and as what? As drossos, or frine, por elmene. Right. What is that?
That's the stuff that is the kind of the drossos is really, it's related to the word hydros. It's
coming from the same root that hydros is. And hydros is what comes out of your lover's armpits
when you're, when you're actively engaged in coitus, sweat, aka sweat, and the sweat that is on
those plants in the morning that kind of evaporates in the air. You know, we call that do, the glistening
do. People produce glistening do too. They do. Fantastic. So that's how they're looking at it,
right? Look at how they're looking at it. Don't look at like some modern. That's the problem with
scholarship. It's all from modern brains. John Scarborough told me that first day of graduate
school, he said, shut up and listen to me. Number one, you only pay attention to the sources.
He said, put down every secondary book you've got. Anybody writing about it from the modern world,
put it down. It's useless. Yeah, I love it. I love it. That was good instruction. I owe him for that.
Go to the next one. Yeah, good. Yeah, that one. And what happens? He says, look, so the translation
says, look, these people, they're going to be like these clouds, you know, they evaporate. They're
going to be like this drossus, this do that evaporates, right? And they're going to be like
the hnus. That's the dust that you sweep off of the circular threshing floor. Yeah. Yeah. And
they're like that. They're vapid. They're just flowing, flowing away. And then finally he says,
hosatmus, these people are going to be like the fog or the fumigation, apodakruon. Now,
dakruon literally means tears, tears. Okay, you ready? But I know that those tears are medical
little lozenges, pills, right? They talk about the tears of opium, for example, the stuff that
drips off the opium capsule. When you scarify it or scarify it, excuse me, when you make a cut in it,
and it bleeds out this milky white solution that has all of the goody good numb numb in it. And
that little thing is called a tear. Anyway, you can make tears as drugs. And he says here,
the fumigation from the drugs, that's what you're going to be like. You're just going to be
off you go and smoke. That's all off you go. Now, how did the Hebrew translate this? Because
remember, this is not Greek translating Hebrew. If it was, I'm going to have to see the word tears
in Hebrew, but you don't read this translation. And this translation is using the Hebrew,
just like the King James. Therefore, they will be like the morning mist. Okay, that's okay. Like
the early dew that disappears nice, like the chaff swirling from a threshing floor so far so good
Hebrew. Nice job. Like smoke escaping through a window. What? There's no window there. And it's
really not smoke. It's really a vapor from a fumigation. Oh, God, these people are terrible.
What's the Hebrew actually say? Look at the word that the Hebrew uses. Yeah. Ashon smoke,
straight up, of course, very simple smoke. Okay, you can see how we're downgrading to the third
grade. We're not talking about the mist produced by specific drugs, but we're talking about the,
you know, smoke. I mean, that could be, you know, what? Yeah, the stuff coming out from between your
ears, right? What's the next one? And what do they do with the, that by the way is how they
represent opnus, right? Now notice he says mist vapor steam, right? Okay, go down. Go down. What's
the next one? What's the Hebrew get? Nope, up one. What's the Hebrew get for the night? Oh, no,
you're right. Go down. What's the next word? The doctrine on the tears, right? I want you to see
what these tears are. Literally, it's tears. But look, number two, that was drops like tears,
that's what I was talking about, gum or sap, right? Or the drugs that they're using, right? This,
when they say sap and what are they talking about? Medicinals in the collection, they talk about,
Gailen talks about the tears all the time. Love it. Tears of the poppy, baby. Give me tears of the
poppy. Doesn't it sound nice? Let's go to the next one. That was drops like tears, gum or sap.
There it is. What's the first example they give us for that? A con face. Do you know what a con
face is? Nia will get all excited because a con face is that acacia that he's always talking about.
Yeah, there you go. You apparently you can get some kind of tears from it. What are these tears
being translated to? In Hebrew, I am not kidding here, people. This is Aruba. And I'm not talking
about Jamaica or, you know, any of the nice places to visit. I'm not talking about St. John or
any of that kind of, you know, stuff. I'm talking about Aruba, the word for lattice or window or
sluice. A lattice or a window. How did you people turn drugs into windows? It's because if you were
to talk to a third grader and tell him, read to him the Iliad, he would write out a very, very dumb
down version of that because his linguistic skill was a cap. And that's what we have when we're
talking about 8,000 unique words in Hebrew. We're talking about a cap. So when I said, look, there's
tech here involved. The Hebrew can't capture the tech. The Septuagint is not a translation of any
Hebrew. There is no Hebrew that exists. Hebrew is a liturgical language with just a few words left.
Okay. Was Jesus speaking Hebrew? Of course he wasn't. Give me the next one. We're almost done.
I'm sorry to take so long, people. This is Hesechus Maghewin. What does it mean, that word,
that root magic? Look, it means to goatewin. It means to charm or transfix or to fascinate someone.
When someone tells me, that's fascinating. I know the magic is working. What is a foskinim? It's
a phallus. What do you do when you're going? You serve the gods and you hear the word in English
therapy. We're stealing it from this. What do you do when you serve the gods? You perform therapy.
Isn't that nice? Therapy. Love it. Love it. Next one. Just a couple of words here for us to
end off to get the sensation of where Medea is operating because she's the original Maghe, right?
Right? She's the original Maghe that every witch harkens back to. That's Medea. Fantastic. What is
the Magana? Magana are pharmaca. They're goitemata. They're things that are meant to charm you. And
what are those things? They are pharmaca. They are drugs. Those magi that came to Jesus looking
for the star. Guess what? Let's just take a look at them. Give me the next one. Give me the next
one. You know what? Go all the way down. I want to go all the way down to that one. Here we go.
We're going to finish up with this. Are you ready people? What is this? It's a dream. It's a dream
that Medea's father had. And this is again from the Orphic Argonautica. It's a dream that he had.
And what does it say? What does it say? It says the very girl that he was nurturing,
that taking care of, that he was growing. That girl, he saw a star.
And what did that star do? On the line before the break, you'll see,
called Poison in Himer Toisi. Himer is that root for desire, lust, that thing that drives you
towards Eros. Himeros is always accompanying Aphrodite. That's what does that mean? It means
desire. Himeros, desire. Do you have the desire to cause that activity to perpetuate?
That's Himeros. And what is Himeros? What is desirable? Desirable? It is her colpus.
And you'll say to me, this will always be translated as fold of her garment or lap.
Possibly bosom. Possibly bosom. It is. Let's show them. Here we go. It is what? The one after it? Yep.
Look at this, people. Bosom or lap. Thank you, Victoria in England. Very nice. Very nice. Look
at number two. Uh-oh. It equals Eidoyun Gunaycheon. That is the vagina. And then it gives Soranus,
who is a terrible name for a gynecologist, but that's what he is. Dr. Soranus. And he's a gynecologist.
And he uses the term colpus. Just straight up for vagina. Now watch this. Those of you who had
a little, who have had Greek, right? Those of you who have had Greek, you'll notice that it's in the
plural, right? You say, how can it be talking about Medea's vagina, where the star is? How can it be
talking about that? Because look at the colloquial expression. Look at B, the colpoitase husterus
are the sinuses, the sides of the, what is in the vagina, right? They considered it a plurality.
Oh, wow. Okay. Well, that kind of makes sense. And that explains why our famous Roman author,
Gaius Valerius Flakis, is telling us that Medea is taking the drug from her vagina when she gives it
to Jason to make him adamus invulnerable. Do you see the one who created
Bacchic worship that leads you to Aphrodite? The first communion, those of you who are going to
communion this weekend, the first communion was the pornea, that glistening dew that was the cup
of Lady Babylon. It was hers. Before Jesus is ever causing those children to ingest
his seed, Medea is giving her seed for the salvation.
To your health, to your health. I wanted to say a couple of things really quick before we
head out tonight. I wanted to say a couple of things. I wanted to again thank everybody
who was involved in the transcripts, who was involved in pushing the Greek course,
people who are getting places where people can access the book and all that kind of stuff like
that. I want to thank people for doing that. I want to thank the graduate dojo that went through
that's going through the process of getting into reading groups and all that kind of thing. I want
to thank them for hanging in there during this time. I'm very honored to be able to be a part
of opening up that universe for us to show, to give us those sources, to protect those sources,
and people are learning the Greek. On Wednesday night we'll have another Omen you and everybody
should have read Unit 1 and should have attempted to perform the first five exercises
which we will go through. If you have done that you will ace the instruction.
Excellent. We'll go over vocabulary. We'll do everything. Thank you everybody for coming
and that is so important that we are actually using the tool because this will bring us
renaissance. They can't blind us. They can't give us fake history. They can't give us false
interpretations if we can access the primary sources. It gets my goat that people don't
give the primary sources more honor. Thank you Penelope for coming tonight. Say hi to everybody.
Thank you for coming. Everybody in the 822. Thank you for coming tonight. I appreciate it.
Please reflect upon what is behind the cross. Please reflect on it, this purification. We need
to get to the bottom of it. We need to see what our actual past is. I was sitting with Chewie
and just the reality just started to set in. Imagine living in a universe where everybody
worshiped a dude who was arrested in a public park with a naked kid. What kind of universe would
that generate? It's like a strange question. What do I do? What do I do with the foot washing?
What do I do with the touching of the children? What do I do with getting arrested with a naked
kid? What do I do with it? How am I going to reconcile who Jesus is in the text and who I
believe he is? It's a difficulty. It's a really difficulty. How am I going to come to grips with
the fact that Moses is a creation of the third century of a branch of a satanic cult that was
perpetuating an oracular tradition? Yeah, how do I come to? I don't know. Maybe it's too soon for
the monist to find out that they're all descendants of the devil. Thank you for coming tonight. Hail
Satan. Something in the wind, lightning hit you near, fried to little bits. There's Satan in the
chorus. Trash him your one more, knock knock, I'm at the door. Gigi Pennywise, put the twinkle in your
eyes. Jesus on the cross, from harm and little ones. Don't mess with the kids. Medea, she will come.
Witch queen of the dragons. Medea, mama mia. Dreams come through my deer. She'll knock you on the
rear. Put something in your beer. High purple, they eat fetus. Bleed out, skin go deeper. Jeepers to the
creepers. Smoking censor mia. Ancient Greek, we read up. Ben him from the teeth up. Bloody
Uzi sepa. Grim to the reaper. Lavender, Medea. Indica, honeya. Hit you on the beeper. My goose poisoners.
Hit you with the kiss. Drinking venom drip. Fane gripping her lip. My goose poisoners. Hit you with
the kiss. Drinking venom drip. Fane gripping her lip. My goose poisoners. Hit you with the kiss.
Drinking venom drip. Fane gripping her lip. My goose poisoners. Hit you with the kiss. Drinking venom drip. Fane gripping her lip.
