It's very frightening.
I wish that God would give us strength to know just what to do, then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Fences created by such evil men, then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Maybe we could walk together again.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon. Tonight on Bible Studies, I've got for you quite a section.
We're going to be looking into the purple and we're going to be looking at a little fulfillment of prophecy.
We're going to be opening some seals.
And what I want to do is I want to bring you those drugs from the ancient world.
I want to bring you those orgiastic rights.
And I want you to make the decisions tonight on Lady Babylon.
Now tonight, I'm going to take you somewhere you can't go with a Bible scholar.
I'm going to take you into some pindar. I'm going to take you into some prophetic utterances.
I'm going to take you into a place where the burning purple is the communion.
We're going to go there tonight. We're going to see this place and we're going to let it really show us how this book of apocalypse really should be read.
Tonight we have the keys that unlock the doors.
Before we begin, I want to say thank you to everyone coming.
I want to say thank you to Frank Marano for his interview.
It was nice to be able to bring this evidence, these texts, these poets, these poets to the New York venue.
It was nice to be able to speak to the people in New York.
It was nice. Thank you, Frank.
That'll be linked here. You can see that here. It's a short 20, 24 minute interview somewhere in that range.
Thought he did a fantastic job.
But what are we here for at the museum? We're here to protect the sanctity of the muse.
We're not here to create merchandise. We're not here to create some sort of lucrative campaign.
I am promising you that. I will not sell you hats. I'm about to give you the goods.
Oh, this is so good. I knew that you guys would love this. I knew that you would just love it.
Let's purify the temple first. Let's purify the temple first.
And what are we going to do in order to purify the temple?
Tonight, as we see prophecy fulfilled, I know, I know I'm promising a lot, aren't I?
Just wait. It's coming. The prophecy fulfilled is brought to us by that sun, that darkened sun.
This is soul. Let's clean this place up.
Shuey.
Shuey.
Shuey.
The works of fate lay open to me because I am in the oysters.
Wow. Thank you. That was Dracula's buddy.
Thanks, Mike. Appreciate it. Appreciate it. I'm going to start now.
I have told you this in the past. I have told you to look it up, check it up, find it. Find the reference.
Find it. There was coming. I told you there will come a time when you will find the earth will yield up.
Her evidence to us. Probably I said through an AI, probably through some AI.
Do you feel that past and present in the future occurring simultaneously? What if that is the Ionic life?
Oh, wow. We're getting into it. Let's see it fulfilled. He's crazy tonight, Mommy.
It's okay, Charlie. Keep watching him. Here we go, kids. Let's go to the first source. Bring it in.
This is from nature, people, and I am going to... Oh, God. I'm sorry, but this stuff gets me so blow it up, Shuey.
This stuff gets me. I need to see it all the way. Are you guys ready?
AI reads text from ancient Herculaneum. Excuse me. Scroll.
For the first time, right? All that stuff was buried at Herculaneum when Vesuvius went capoe.
And plenty's like, ah, evacuate the people and oh, he dies trying to get them out because of cloud.
A gas went over. He was leading the Navy. He was leading the Navy.
Anywho, one of the little cities next to Pompeii that got pounded was Herculaneum.
And they had a library in the house of guess who. Take it down for a second. Guess who's house we're going to.
I... See, you can't do this with Bible scholars. You cannot do this. There's certain things, you know?
It's why they have the sisters of dissatisfaction, right? When you can't reach that peak.
Why? If there's no flag to plant on Everest, why would I go up it? Fantastic.
Look at what's the Herculaneum's covered and whose house are we in?
We're in the house of what? Somebody... Does this have something to do with Julius Caesar?
Oh, what? This is gorgeous, you guys. You're going to love this.
How do you read these? Look what we're doing. We're bringing from the depths.
We're bringing from the underworld. We're bringing up the books. Do you people see this book?
This book, look at it. That's not a book. It's a lump of coal.
No, it's a scroll. It's a scroll. And that AI, look at that AI's eyes of light.
Its eyes of light are reading the words. And what happened? What happened now?
Now, people, I'm bringing you to the present. Give us the next one. Give us the next one, Chewie.
What happened? Oh, my goodness. It developed a machine learning algorithm that detected Greek letters
and several lines and rolled up fires, including all my Greek students. Say it with me.
Por furas. Por furas. Purple.
Oh, the first voice to speak to you from the past telling you the future.
That first voice is purple. And they all got excited. They all got excited.
How many times does this story get told?
Yeah. Lovely. Hit us with the next one, Chewie. Boom. Watch this.
Oh, no. That's okay. Blow that up. Yeah. That's where we're meant to go. Nice.
You've got the course in. What is the por furas? It's the purple fish, right? Right?
The murex, that little sea creature, the shell and the little body and you poke it.
It produces purple ooze that purple. Now, listen, people, classicists, they're stuck.
They haven't gotten to the science part of things yet because, you know, we're deficient.
And so in this, when they do, though, they're going to get beyond the fact.
They all know this was a purple dye and all the people who were discovered, the word purple, speaking from the dead text.
Oh, what did they say? That's that purple dye. They need to catch up.
People, classicists out there, start reading the medical stuff like we're doing in here.
Start doing the medical stuff. You're going to find what that's for.
Is that purple again? Oh, God, look at this. Blow that up.
Fantastic. Purple dye obtained from it. The purple dye obtained from that mollusk is the por fura.
Okay, people, what do you do with that purple dye?
I don't care what they say. Isn't it now?
Cool. If it's whatever, DMT or whatever it is, they're claiming.
I haven't seen the latest chemist, stereochemistry.
Yeah, so I don't know. But what's in it is so valuable that it drives this religious empire because you can't get anywhere without the purple.
Yeah. Yeah, it's the most steady. Let's keep going. Let's keep going.
I'm so glad they're finally, I'm now back to the purple. Let's go back to the purple. I want to still, I want to still look at this.
Oh, God. So they've got the claws and they've got the purple stripe, right? Right?
I just want you to see here. Oh, my God. Look at number Roman numeral number two.
Wait a minute. Brexantes intoi nardoi ten por pura. They did what? They poured it.
They poured it into the nard. Into the nard. Remember that.
We're doing drugs now in Greek. In Greek. We're doing the drugs now. That's like that.
There you go. Nice, Chewie. Good catch. We're doing the drugs now.
What is that nard? I'm going to show you that nard a minute so that when you see, every time I say that Jesus and Mary Magdalene,
using that nard with the moon on, you'll understand why there had to be an antidote there.
Oh, God. These lace days. Oh, shoot. It's so much drugs. It's hard to keep track of. I know, guys, but watch, watch this.
We're seeing the fulfillment. This is coming. The communion is coming. The communion is coming.
And when they find it, it's going to rock the world. It's going to rock the world.
I'm going to tell you this here. I'm going to tell you this now. This thing's developed by Medea.
I'm going to show you. She was called Colchis. Yes. Yes. Depends. It all depends on the magic.
Watch what happens. Let's go. Chewie, let's go to another story here. Go for it.
Yep. Yep. There we go. Yeah. The scrolls were discovered in the 18th century. That's nice to know.
When Workman came across the remains of a luxury villa that might have belonged to the family of Julius Caesar's father-in-law.
Yeah, that's fantastic. Get us another one. I just wanted you guys. I'm not making this up, people. You're getting Caesar's library.
And why is that important? The family, the Julian. I should say the Julian library is what you're getting.
And why is that important? Because one of the Julians, a dude named Gaius, went up to the temple of Venus Genetrix.
Now, for those of you who hear that, you don't hear America, right? You don't hear it.
But that's what they did, because you know who that is? That's their founding mother.
Do they have a founding mother? Do you have a problem with the founding mother? Because they're Romans.
They'll drive it from your soul with a spear. Yes. Yes. Pollution. Not accepted. Not accepted.
Who is, what did this Gaius from the Julians, what did he do? What did he do? Oh, he put a portrait of Medea in the temple.
Why would he do such a thing? Why? If you knew the purple, you'd know why.
Oh, you see. Does anybody want to read the drug manuals that are in the hands of the Caesars?
You may be surprised at what you find. Oh, love it. Love it. Next one. Next one, Joey. Let's go to the next one.
Okay, we're going to get out of this. The purple dye was highly sought after an ancient Rome and was made from the glands of sea snails.
Nice. The glands. Nice. So the term could refer to purple color robes, the rank of the people who could for the dye or even the mollusks.
But more important, at the individual words reading anything, it all says, ba, ba, ba, and they go off. All of it appearing to you in a dead scroll.
You have seen, as I told you, you would see. That is the muse. That is the power that you and I will harvest from that city, that city with its seven hills.
We will harvest that power. Are you ready? Let's go. Let's go to the next star system. Boom. There it is, people.
For those of you who don't, for those of you who wish you text, here it is. Can you see that thing?
Look, look at what we've been given. From the darkness we've been given, poor foora. We've been brought the dawn. Right out of the darkness comes the dawn.
The dawn. Who is that dawn bringer? Who is it? Tell me. Who do you think it is? Put it together from the sources we've looked at tonight.
We had to go all the way, take it down. We had to go all the way back to Dracula, all the way back to Dracula to find that source, that soul.
You are squarely in the family of the son. And I want you to see the daughters. I want you to see the daughters and the granddaughters of soul.
I want you to see them tonight. Are you ready? Chewie hit us with another, hit us with another system. Boom.
Yeah, listen to him. He told you. Let's go to the next one. I know it's unnecessary. Sometimes you have to, sometimes you have to bring it.
Okay, look at this. I want to bring up a text. This is also a place, right? All the Bible scholars have fallen off the cart by this point, right?
Because now we're not just involved in circle-jerculating. Now we are, wait, did I say that? What was that? I think I just coined a word.
Now we're involved in the real stuff and I want to show you, I want to just bring you through an expert in the Bacchic cult.
I just want you to see that at the top it says Rhea. Rhea nourished that child. She is the one who dropped forth that child. She nourished him with the milk that is properly balanced for this procedure.
Wait, what? Yeah, just hang in there with me. We're dealing with a kid and we're dealing with burning off their mortality and you say, wait, wait, no, right?
Because that's what people do. If you see somebody burning off your child's mortality, it may frighten you. Don't be frightened. Don't be frightened.
You know, they may die. They may die in the process. But this is the world that you and I are in. What will come from this process will be that immortal child.
Brilliant. Let's go on. Let's bring us that text again. Oops, I hit you just trying. Wrong timing. I was off there. Go ahead, shoot. Bring up the text again.
We've got to throw it out there. I want you to look at that second line, right?
What's happening? I just want you to imagine the sparks of a fire that does not burn. Those sparks of the fire that comes from the lightning. That's what we're looking for.
When we do the purple, when we have the purple communion, when we have the cup of porneia, this is what it brings us. Those sparks that fire of the lightning, the fire of the lightning.
And what does it do? It bays that child. It bays that Dionysus. It bays that child in the breath. In the breath of that child's mother.
Wow. Wow. These people are committed. And you don't understand when you're reading the New Testament, it's your words. Christos.
It's coming from this tradition. And if you have no knowledge of this tradition, your work is bogus. It sounds to somebody who has read the text, you sound like clowns.
Let me just say that, issue that breath from my, my lips.
You classicists who have ignored these texts, shame on you. You religious studies scholars who have created a false fairy tale reality.
I wouldn't want to be you in the coming. I wouldn't want to be you. Shame on you. It's a very serious crime to defecate in a temple of the muse. Religious scholars.
Feed me a religious scholar, please. Okay. Let's get back to it. I'm sorry. Let's get back to it. There it is.
Yeah. Let's go to the next one. We're there with the child, right? Look at this people. What is all this stuff doing? You know, you're going to say, I'll just translate, you're going to say that I am bogus, right?
That bogus found. He's the one who brought us this ewe and ecstatic fruit, right? He brought us, he brought us this ewe and fruit that brings us to that place that we were in, in Edim.
It brings us back to Edim. And what does it do to us? What does this thing do to us? It causes us to be methylated, right? Brings us to, brings us to Aphrodite. You see the circle is Aphrodite. That's what it does.
Bogus brings you to Aphrodite. But wait, that's just what they tell people on the outside. Now I'm going to show you what they tell people on the inside. What does that sacred communion do? It brings the mind that is unstable to a place of slaughter.
Dionysus will bring you to Aphrodite or to a place of slaughter. It's your choice. It's your choice. Do you feel the cult? Do you understand now why this cult could take a male child that had just been born? I want you to visualize this. The historians tell us this.
You deliver, a woman delivers her child surrounded by other women. And if that child is a male, you tear it to pieces and eat it. That's the society where these drugs are coming from.
That's the society, the Bacchic society that is producing the drugs that can put you into the Eremon.
Whereas we all know, you are tested by Lucifer. It's one mechanism, people. Many, many little mysteries. One mechanism. You can only get there on one bus. What does he mean, mommy?
He means that you can only get there one way. Broad is the path that leads to destruction. But the way of life, not so much.
Yeah. Yeah. Are you hearing the words of the Magus, Jesus Christ, for the first time? Yeah. That's life. I love it. I love it. Absolutely love it.
Chewie, get us the next one up there. Let's keep going. We can't keep these people for too long. I think 23 minutes is a lot. I think 23 minutes is a lot. Here we go. Look at that. We're already past that. It's already been done. Let's just come here.
Let's just come here. Okay, people. I wanted to bring you tonight. So here we are at the fulfillment. And let's break these seals. Let's break these seals. I want you. I want you to see. Yeah. Yeah.
And one of the seven angels came carrying these seven files. And they spoke with me saying this, dude, and say, Hey, come here, brah. I'm going to show to you the judgment of the porno.
The judgment of the porno. That's who you and I are looking at right now. She is the one who makes the purple. She is the one who makes the purple. Don't take your eyes off of her. Fantastic.
Judgment of this. What is this porno? She's great. And she's seated upon all the many waters, many waters. Do you understand what they're saying? She is seated on many waters. Sit on that throne of Satan in order to see.
And what happens? A lot of kings with her ended up pornating. A lot of kings ended up pornating. And they got intoxicated. She bewitched them. They got intoxicated, right? The people, those who inhabit Gaia, they became intoxicated with her.
Bunch of bockens. Bunch of crazy bockens. And what made drove them over the edge? The cup of her pornea. The cup of her pornea. Now I'm going to say this is simply and as directly as I possibly can.
The purple dye is just one of a compound. One of one ingredient of a compound of of ingredients. And that this is used to produce another drug through her.
Her pornea, her ejaculation is the product. It contains the purple. But it also contains her life. It contains her seeds of fire.
If you want to turn on the mystery in order to see the future, you're going to have to bring her drug back. It is all part of the Bacchic way.
This is why Jesus is arrested in a public park with a naked boy at 4am because he is also trying to bring back the communion.
There is the eating of flesh and the drinking of blood and by the power of Lucifer, by the power of Beelzebul, the God of Great Council.
By his power. He who sits on the throne of Cthon. It's by his power.
Interesting. Now you know why they're accusing Jesus of working for the devil. Because he is. He is. Wow.
Okay. Let's go to the next text. I got a couple more here for you. I just want to wrap up and explain some things to you.
I want you to see. I want you to look straight into the eyes of the morning star. We're looking at the purple tonight.
I told you the purple will come back. It's come back. What are we expecting next? We're expecting the voice of the morning star.
Are you ready for this? Pindar. I got to call up Pindar and I got to bring him back and I got to say Pindar. What can you say to me?
Pindar says, you know, Jason, he took off his clothes. You know, he trusted in the God. Yeah. And what did he do?
He began. He undertook the work that he had to do. He undertook it, right? And the fire, it didn't touch him.
The fire, it didn't touch him. We are burning off your mortality. The fire doesn't touch you. Why? Because you have followed the ephetomies, the commands of that all pharmaceutical stranger.
That all pharmaceutical stranger. You know who I'm talking about? You know who I'm talking about? I'm talking about scootha.
Who is scootha? That's what Dracontius calls Medea. It is her epithet. It doesn't mean she who is Scythian because she is not Scythian.
She hangs with Scythians. She's culturally living a Scythian life. But she's also anchored to these Libyan traditions surrounding Amun.
And as she develops the Bacchic Empire, she does so by exposing this pathway through the purple. It comes from her body.
Bring us back to Pendar. Pendar, tell us what she says here. Next one, please. Look, who's all this coming from?
Everything that is happening, I'm telling you, everything that is happening.
Caetomedeus epos ancomisa is coming for the fulfillment of the word of Medea.
Wait a minute. The prophet that I was referring to tonight, who was that prophet? That prophet is Medea.
That prophet is Medea. And who? Who? What is she doing? She's speaking from Thera. She's speaking from Thera in the 17th generation.
Though her word will be fulfilled, right? And who is she? She is Zaminase Pice. Take that down for a minute. She is Zaminase Pice.
Ayatollah. She is that ever rushing current of fire that is unstoppable.
That's what they call the Queen of Babylon? I didn't know she was Queen of Babylon. Did you know she was Queen of Babylon?
She was. That's what they called her. When she was 12, how did they manage to get her to that stage by that age?
She's saving the world, spreading a religion, a holy virgin. Amazing work, guys. Amazing.
It helps when your researcher is the one who is developing the drug. It's part of our model that holds us up.
Your researcher cannot be the one who is being experimented upon. They didn't care. And they did. And she did. And this is what she produced.
All of your religions, your Judaism, your Christianity, your Islam, they are all the product of one woman's brilliant work.
Yeah, let's see her. Go to the next one. We're going to start to pull out here. I want you guys to see this still. Thank you for hanging in there with me.
I know there's people giving me their time, and I appreciate that. And verse 4, and the woman was Patebeble Mine.
Remember that naked kid that was with Jesus when he was arrested?
It says that his Gumnos, his naked parts were Patebeble Mine. They were covered. They were covered with that bandage.
What are her coverings? Her coverings are what? Por furun. Por furun.
You know Aphrodite's girdle? That thing that has the barb on it that she can hit somebody with? What's it do when they get barbed with it?
Make some nuts. Make some nuts. Yeah, in a very specific nutty kind of way. In a satyr kind of way.
In the way that you would see one of these centaurs with their apostles. You didn't know that centaurs had apostles, did you?
No, you didn't. But you don't read, Isaiah. You think you do. Because King James has played a dirty trick on you and used the Masoretic text.
But you don't read that text because they took all the centaurs out of the prophets.
It was too much, linguistically. It was too much to consider. If you look up centaur now in ancient Greek, you know what you're going to find next to it?
Petarast. Paiderastea. Interesting.
Jesus Christ is following as models for his salvation.
Petarasts. Jesus Christ is in a line of mystery.
Petarasts. His boys are his boys. Mathetai. Students. You remember Socrates? He's charged for corrupting the youth. Yeah, at least that's what is being thrown around.
He's not walking around with 40 year old men. Right? Okay. Right. He is working with the young. I mean, he does know 40 year old men.
But his students are of a different group. Just like Jesus is going to be referring to his kitties and sheepkins as his students.
Post-primary up to through your education. So 10 to 9, 10 to 18, 19, 20, somewhere in that range. Yeah.
Paiderastea. Petarasti is part of it. It's part of the cult. We're going to be discovering this, and we have the great, everybody in Satanic initiation as the great, great vantage point.
We get to be right up front as it comes forward. We have the purple. Next, we bring her voice. Chewie, go back to the text. Let's give everybody some time off.
Look at this. So she was dressed in that purple, right? And coconut. Anyhow, she had some other stuff on, but I wanted you to see that she's a who's supporterion who soon she has this golden cup.
This isn't any regular cup. This is a cup of offering. And she's got it in her hand. And what does it contain? It contains the abomination.
Until you see the abomination of desolation in the temple. Yeah. That's what we're looking at. We're looking for that time. We're looking for that exact. Are you ready? Are you ready for the fun?
Are you ready for the slaughter? Are people ready? People are saying, who's side? Who's side are we on? What are we going to pick? Right?
But we all know the games are beginning. We're going to see a slaughter. Yeah. Yeah. Turn up. Is it just me? Somebody touched that thermostat again? The insanity stat?
Somebody turn it up a little bit. That's Bacchic. There's a radiation that comes from that Bacchic power, quantum stuff. I don't understand it. You know, probably gives you cancer if you sit around it for too long.
But I know this for sure. It makes you nuts. It makes you nuts. Which, for those of us in a cult, is a good thing. Because how else are we going to be involved in the eating of the flesh?
We're all going to consume it. It's all our table, people. You don't have a choice. You're about to watch. You're about to watch and partake in that slaughter. Yeah.
You know what the watchers say? They're constantly harping on this. Humans. They're one group. Yeah. They don't even realize that. You and I, we do things together. Our corruption is shared.
And you can't see that other side. But when you do, don't be surprised. Follow the gateways, the muse, or go to the slaughter. Yeah.
Okay. Let's go back to the text, people. You guys are indulging me tonight. I'm going to be a little indulgent and run this out a little bit. She would blow that up. Here's another one, people.
Look at this five. And what happens? What's on her forehead? What's on her forehead? This is what we're going to see. Pull, right? Come on, people. We're pulling. We're pulling her into this dimension, invisible form.
Are you ready? What's on her forehead? Name. What great name is on her is on her forehead. Mustadion mystery.
This is her. The mystery. It's funny. There are thousands of thousands. There are billions of people who bow, who bow to a God and his son in a right that was created by a woman.
Yeah. There she is. Mystery. She's got the name. You people cannot take it. Jesus Christ didn't pop onto the scene and create his fairy tale La La Jack in the beanstalk world from nothing.
There's no ex nihilo. We're scientists. We have to have causes and facts. Nobody created that world. That world's in your head, Christian. It's in your head.
They all stole it from a woman, but they couldn't replicate it. They couldn't replicate the right because it required her voice.
A quiet her voice to bring it. All they got was a room stinking of sweating children and a dude who got arrested with one of naked in a public park at four a.m. Hail Jesus.
Let's go back to that text. Finish off. Yeah. Yeah. She is that mother. She is that mother of all of those poor night. Yeah. And she's the one who has that.
Abomination. Abomination that off running. What kind of genius was able to turn a body fluid into a communion that would build an empire of the mind.
Do you wonder why their teenage girls were more educated than you and I are? Did you wonder? Yeah, those priestesses are the ones carrying those sciences with them.
Wasn't Julius Caesar. He was hanging her picture in the temple.
She was doing it.
I'm going to love this when it hits. This is going to surprise all the classicists. They're going to sit around because they've been preaching since the 60s about the oppression of women.
I'm going to show them a real woman. I'm going to show them the one who's who's voice shaped their history. This is Lady Babylon. This is the mystery and it's coming.
Let's do the next one. This is a somber ending to the sixth season, but it's the most hopeful I've been able to generate.
Look at this. We got to look at the book of life. You didn't know Zoe had a book, did you? You didn't know the Medwa had a book.
Shall we hit the next one? Let's go through these people. This is going to be a little bit riddly. There's going to be a little bit, you know, kind of like riddles here. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And any who, any who, those who have the mind that is so false, right? Does anybody here possess Sophia?
I'm looking in the crowd tonight. Does anybody possess Sophia? Okay, because the one that does, whichever of you has her, blow it up again, please.
I mean, what happens? You know, there's, there's seven heads and seven.
Okay, I think we're back. I think we're back. Yeah.
What did I really want to show you here all the way down at the bottom? I just want you to see.
Okay, I think we're back, but we may go down again. We seem to be having an equipment failure. So I'm going to get this in as quickly as possible.
The Thadion here, right? It's the, the trick is it's not what you think it's not a beast. It is a beast in the sense that it's a serpent.
It's the same thing that happened to Paul. When Paul in Acts, we see it illustrated, he was in Malta and he gets bitten by the little tiny poisonous guy and they're all like, haha, he's going to die.
And he doesn't. That's what we're referring back to the Thadion. You have to remember there's a number of them. Oh, the empire is caught up with us tonight, Chewie.
We're, they're right on our tail, people. Let me just run through this. Okay. Um, look, there's a, you know, there's a number of them.
There's a number of them. There was one that is no longer anymore. And there's anyhow, there's a number, right?
There's some that were and one that's coming back and an eighth, an eighth. I want you to focus on the eighth. We are bringing back that eight and we're going to do it obscenely obviously for people and it's going to flood.
It's going to flood us here. Bring us, give us the next text, Chewie. We need to get through this before we blow, tie fighter catches us here.
Um, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, um, this is just Paul, he's picking up this, this group of sticks that he's got, you know, and he's putting it in the fire and this is a Hidna.
I want you to look at that third line. This is a Hidna specifically. It's the Viper. It's one of the Viper's that he's talking. Oh, right. We all know what they're using the Viper.
They're actively using the Viper for these Thanasimon, these things that cause death and do death states. These drugs, when I say things, I mean drug combos.
Good, good, good. And anything, it's things hanging from his hand. Next one, next one. And what is that? The, the strangers saw it and they're like, this dude's going to die, brah.
He must have done something pretty, pretty awful to, to live out of this shipwreck, to get saved from the shipwreck, to wash the shore, and then to get bitten by a Viper. He's going to die, but they were all amazed when he didn't.
Uh-huh. Yeah, he's got the antivenom. He's taking the Theriac, baby. If he can take the Therion, he can take the Theriac. He can take that potion.
Um, rectally, by the way, that allows him to get through the burning purple. Wait, what? The priestess has to put that onto a, yes, there's an account of this. You can see it.
My God, man, you just have to find the Satyrs and the Satyrachon. That's it. Fantastic. Okay, next one. Let's go to the next one. I'm loving this, but I want, I want to give people their time's worth.
Look at the top. I have to be able to see this, right? Wild animal. This is Therion, right? What I wanted you to see is I just wanted you to go down to Beast, and you see under 3B, we've got a little poisonous animal, and we talk about ETS.
Is that ETS? Yeah. Okay. All right. We've got a little Orbaceus here there further on. I wanted to see it, but let's go because they're going to catch us here in a minute.
Boom. Fantastic. What is the Theriancos, people? Look what is in parentheses, just so you know. This is for all the people who are like, oh, this guy is crazy. Right? Listen, Tommy. Listen, Tommy. I know you're, I know you're, you know, I know you're a mature Tommy, but I want you to see here that the Greeks are actually making this connection.
You see how the Therion is in your parentheses there, right? These poisons that are being used in medicine, right, are composing a larger group that we put, we talk about as Theriacs, right? Look at that.
Look at that. An antidote. Antidotos. Does everybody see it on the third line down? Antidotos. Wait a minute. I thought you said Jesus and his crew. They're all, take it down for a second. I thought you said they're all doing Hebrew and Aramaic. You're so full of it.
Oh my God. Do you see what happens? The people who wanted to write the history, i.e. the Christians, they rewrote it so that you would think this is coming from the Hebrew and somehow that Hebrew is telling me things that poofy magic stuff.
Yeah. Messiah. Really? No. No. Not really. They're using the Greek language. They're speaking it. They're eating it. They're drinking it. They're living it. They're making love in it. Isn't that nice? When you hear, listen, you're in Jerusalem.
If you listen very closely, you'll hear the moaning. You'll hear the moaning in Greek.
Oh my goodness. This is gorgeous. Give us the last one. Okay. I'm sorry. We went to a strange place here. Yeah. Go ahead. Go ahead. I just wanted you to see the Nard. Here's the Nard. I think we skipped one. Some spike Nard, right? Some Celtic Nard. Oh, look. Oh my God.
Oh, look. There it is. There's some Celtic Nard. What's the difference? You know, it's all medicines, right? There's mountain Nard, right? Orea. Orea just means the stuff you collect in the mountains. Do you people see how complex the art of drugs is and antiquity?
Look at the bottom. You've even got a Babylonian Nard. You've got a Babylonian Nard. And all of these Nards are used for different things, but there's one thing that Jesus is using them for. Go ahead. There's one thing that Jesus is using them for that we know.
Through Mary Magdalene. This is what she's doing to the Alabastrian, right? Now, watch this. This verb, I'm going to show you. Bring out, bring out the... Where is he? Where is he? Bring out the seminarian. Where is he? Bring out that seminarian. I need him. Come here. What's your name? Otto. Oh, here's Otto, the seminarian. Otto. What can't you do here, Otto? Bring the text back up for me.
The one I had before. Bring it up. This is what... This verb is what Mary is doing to the Alabastrian. And people don't know how to translate it. Now, translate it as break, right? Mary comes in with this vile of extremely expensive perfume.
And the container for the perfume is a phallus-shaped applicator made of this gorgeous stone. Oh, God. And what do people think that she did with it? They don't think she did with it. What Juicy did in Aristophanes played Lysistrata. Her name was Merina, right? Juicy.
It's a joke. Nevermind. What happens is she brings that Alabastrian, right? And people don't... They try to translate it as Mary's... Ah, she broke it.
Well, you had... I heard one person try to explain this once, is, well, you had to break it to open it. Wait, what? They had a stone that was filled with sex drugs that you had to break to open.
That doesn't even sound engineeringly possible. It's rubbed. And why are they rubbing it? Because that's what you do with the Nard, baby. You got to rub it. When you rub it, it warms it up.
Any dork in the ancient world knows that when you rub that substance onto that medical applicator, you get a heat. And that's what you need. You're going to Aphrodite. You don't go to Aphrodite cold. You ever try to go to Aphrodite cold? You can't. You can't.
Aphrodite is a fire, baby. Morningstar fire. That stuff's got to heat you up. There is no part of your being. No part of your physical being in the realm of Aphrodite that doesn't become activated by heat.
Can you feel it? Can you feel that heat? In antiquity, they could. Yeah. So the friction, you and I might say, of the preparing, the way that they prepared the drug, warmed the drug so that it could be applied and not be uncomfortable to the person.
Yes, all of this, people, behind the New Testament passages that you were looking at, that you didn't know was there. Why? Because what Julian said came true. You let the Christians take over the education. And the next thing you know, you guys will be a thousand years behind.
Yeah. Congratulations. We are that regression. We are that regression of civilization that resulted from the rise of Christianity. That's us. It's only a classical renaissance that will save us. It's only a classical renaissance.
Oh, God. Don't you want to bring it? Don't you want to bring back Lady Babylon? Let's see. Next one. I'm going way too long. Let's finish tonight, right?
And so he's going into Bethany, into the house of Simon, you know, the one that had the leprosy. Yeah. And he's laying down there and this woman, you know, in possession of an alabasteran, she comes in there. What's in her alabasteran?
That Muron. What is the Muron? Muron is that compound sex substance that they're using that not only helps prevent pregnancy, but also may have helped prevent venereal disease.
Oh, that's nice. That's nice. And what else is in there? It's one of the Nards. It's one of the real Nards. You know what I mean? This stuff is really valuable. It's not adulterated. It's really valuable. And what did she do? She started applying it to the alabasteran, right?
And then she added her substance that was in the alabaster to Jesus's head, right? To Jesus's head. Do you remember what they do? What do the Medusaid do? They put it all over their hair. They put it all over their hair.
When you have the purple, when you have the purple, it's a drug that is used, not just transdermally, because they're taking it through the thorn, right? Paul's all itchy scratchy. He's all immune to viper venom. And he's all, what are you doing? I've got my thorn, got my thorn.
You didn't realize he was junky. You didn't realize any of these people were junkies. You guys didn't even know Peter was a boy prostitute.
When people find out that Jesus Christ was associated with a young male prostitute, then we may have an enlightenment. We may be able to stand outside, but I don't know. The watchers are telling me no way. No way. And they're just saying, wait, just watch what's about to happen.
I'm looking for those dolphins, baby. I'm looking for them. Last one. Boom. Did I say that already and didn't? Let me give them this one, though, to go tonight, guys. I wanted you to see this.
What is Medea's name? Well, she's got a bunch, as the text tells us, right? She of many names. But one of her names is Colchis. Now, this is not Colchis.
This isn't. This is Colchloss. Not Colchis, but Colchloss. You see what happens? We switched. We switched the consonant pair there, right?
Oh, that's interesting. What happens when you call Medea Colchis? You mean she's the Colchian, right? She is Colchis. She is the place. She is the thing.
If you check in Alice, Alice from Wonderland will tell you from 1850 that this word is the same.
That it is merely a swap in consonants that is typical, typical of Pulaskian magic.
Pulaskian magic, those Cthonian people, predecessors of the Greeks, pre-recorded history, pre-written history.
They do this all the time. I'm going to give you something new tonight. This is fun, but I'm going to give you something new.
As the human language developed, it was driven forward by dyslexics. There is a dyslexia that is employed as a power in the magical papyri.
Do you mean if you're dyslexic that you have a draw that is part of the history of humanity that at one time was compelling our languages forward? Yes.
Yes. They do it in the PGM. They'll flip consonants. And now you know why we have Edim. The Etruscans will do it through that Pulaskian influence.
It comes into the magic where we see the flipping of the consonants. Yes. Love it. Edim is the Medeo. That is the paradise, right?
I didn't want to take you to a place. I wanted to bring a place to you. This is Edim. She is paradise.
Bring that word up one more time. Oh, sorry, Jewy. What is the call close? What is the call close? What is it, people? It's surprise, surprise.
The source of the purple. The source of that which puts us into the oistress. That's what she is queen of. Yeah. Western civilization created by one woman. The mind.
Yes. Thank you for coming tonight. Thank you for season six. Next season we start with a brand new world. It is our final season and we bring to you the finish on Satanic initiation.
Thank you for coming tonight. Hail Satan.
Maybe we could walk together again. Just maybe we could walk together again.
