I never meant anything I said Just spittin' it up
Everything I've been fittin' To keep it from eatin' away at me
Never said anything I meant I never said the letters that I should've said
So it's askin' too much for you all to believe
But when I say, never meant nobody knows
When I say, never was the cost for a long
Never knew what I was talkin' about anyway
Thank you for joining me tonight
I'm very excited
I'm very excited
Tonight, we're gonna open up some goodies
We're gonna look at those toxins
We're gonna look at a group of people using those toxins
And we're gonna look at what it did to them
And what they then did to everyone around them
Tonight on Lady Babylon Bible Study
We will start with the rope in the cave
If you let go of that rope, you will not make it out of the cave
Even for just a second
You hold that rope
We're gonna look at that rope
We're gonna talk about the mechanics of everything
We're gonna talk about the operation of the mystery
And we're gonna talk about that poison source
That power of therapy
And we're gonna dredge up in the process
A Spanish source, Old Spanish
This is gonna be lovely
Welcome back to Lady Babylon
Let's go
As usual, I'm just gonna take 30 minutes of your time
And no more than that
And then we'll head into a panel
With three of us that are ready to go
I grabbed our Brit tonight and shook him up in a can of sand
He is wound up and ready to go
So we'll see Rob and Snappy and Neil at the end here
To digest and commentate
Thank you guys
Welcome back
So tonight I want to start with some text
And I want to put your mind in the mode of the ancient Scythian
Horseback culture
Poison using cannabis totem shaman
Who follow the virgin
Yeah, I want us to put ourselves back in the ship
Kind of set it for that direction
And I'd like to, Chewie, give me our first text, please
I just want to remind everybody of what we're here for
I just want to read this to you for a couple
Let me get situated here
For a couple
Translation myself
So this is Andromachus, a stereoc
Everybody, you knew this is the stuff we're talking about
With Nero has access to this, right?
He's the one who's sending his archmage
Or his archiatrists out to go get the formula, right?
We need it, we need this compound
For the riot, fantastic
And I'm just gonna translate a little bit for you
It's his stereoc, derived from the echidni
Right, a group of priestesses who involved poisons
Echis, specifically viper poisons
Viper poisons, good
Let's keep reading
Hear me, Caesar
Great Nero
And let me tell you about the incredible strength
Of the mini-throned antidote
This is the giver
Of life that can be lived without fear
An unassailable freedom
Yes, let me tell you, Nero, about Hilaria
Hilaria
Hilaria, this is hilarious
We are approaching the Hilaria
If we are Romans, we are approaching the Hilaria
And what are we going to do when we get into the Hilaria?
We're going to honor the great mother
We're going to bring our people's focus upon the dying
And the resurrection
Yes, this is set in stone, long before any of the Bible is sitting there
This is what we're going to do
We're going to celebrate it here
We're going to call this compound drug
Compound drug, the polypharmacon
Polypharmacon, I believe we have the term
It should be right under it
There we go, thanks, Chewie
Look at this, polypharmacos
It gives us Andromachus
Apoid Galen, right?
From Galen
And we see that it's polythronos, the mini-throned
Right?
And from the candor
So what is something that is polypharmacos?
It's a compound, a substance that is made up of multiple different singularities
The Romans love to write books about drugs
And whether they were samples or compounds
They had a step up on our pharmacy today
And I want to talk about that
I want to talk about the next level of where you take this knowledge
Keep your hand on that cord
That cord through the cave is the pharmacology
It's called worship reason here
It is the pharmacology
So let's see what we can do
Give us back her text
Yeah, so he says, Cesar, let me tell you about it
It's Hilaria, right?
And it's called the calm
It's called the calm
That which brings you joy
Or that which calms
The storm that is calm
You could think of it as a drug man
But what it does, it calms the storm
It's great therapy, fantastic
And it's called good God
Good God
Why?
Because we're talking about possession
We're talking about possession
In the renaissance of the pharmacology
As we push into that frontier again
In an attempt to bring health to people
This ancient methodology will be revivified
Yes, it will
They'll explain it with better math
Yeah, better math
And maybe some computer modeling
But it will resurface
It will resurface that knowledge
That's what the hope of the museum is
That's why we create a museum here
People have been asking me, what are we doing?
Which way are we going to go?
Which direction?
We stay with the museum
We stay with reason
Keep your hand on that cord
We're talking about the pharmacology
Chewie, bring that up again, text
So what is this thing going to do?
This drug that I'm taking
It is going to take you through that dark harbor
And don't worry
It doesn't matter that you have taken the poppy
It doesn't matter that you have taken the hemlock
It doesn't matter that you have taken the
Death bringing drugs
And when I say death bringing
I mean clinically, technically
The jargon of the day
The death bringers, right?
It's a class of drug, death bringers
Like that opium that we just talked about
So what we're seeing is a nice rendition
Of the formulation of the compound sacrament
That was used in Ritu
That induces this state
This post-death state
Fantastic
And it doesn't matter
I'll just run through, zip through quick
It doesn't matter
Yeah, says Andromachus
It doesn't matter that this thing
That you've had, that you've been exposed to
Is the viper or the asp
It doesn't matter
It doesn't matter
Why would it not matter
And why would you be exposing yourself to these things
So that you can become immune
We've talked about this
And for most of you this is review
Okay, but we've come this far
Now I want to continue
And show you what the significance is
Of that formulation with another ghost
Let's bring up, here we go
Yeah, call the run, there we go
First one, there we go
Up here, yes, okay
So look, we're in the 17th century
Sailing into the 17th century
We're going to make our first stop here
Jump out, roll out, right
Of the time machine
Here we go, we're talking about plays
And we're talking about very well educated gent
With access to classical knowledge
And he is going to tell us through his sources
About Cersei
And if I'm good enough as a classical philologist
I can show you where his sources are
That's what's cool about it
So anyway, here we go
I just want to read to you this translation
Right, old Spanish, I don't do it
It just doesn't, not my thing
And I wouldn't ever pretend for it to be
Okay, but look at these
This is a 19th century translation
When people still value color on
Okay, he's still here, right
The professor friend of mine is going to give me a hard time
Okay, he says, conquering adverse fate
You have come bearing these divine flowers with thee
This is Odysseus coming
And this is Cersei and Odysseus interacting
Right, and Odysseus has shown up with a plant
That's been given to him by Iris, a plant
Okay, and he says bearing these divine flowers with thee
Which are beautyous antidotes
Which are godscent exorcisms
Against deadly poisoned drafts
Against magical bewitchments
Right, so for the hardcore pharmacologist
Or a tox person, right
Yeah, I don't go into the witchery
I'm sorry, you're going to have to
Because there's an entire language to describe
These different states
Yeah, and the use of these drugs
These compounds, yes
In order to create a communion
Okay, blast that off there, let's go back
Good, next, let's go next to the
Boom, here's another one
This is what Iris says
See this floral branch I bear
Jimmed with buds that Flora tended
To be the antidote against Cersei's poisoned secrets
Nice, nice
Nice, who is this Cersei?
In order to bring her up we're going to have to go get Alice
From Alice in Wonderland, this is the Oxford
Greek lexicon, middle of the 19th century
Knowing many drugs or charms, great
Who does that? Look at the first word
We've got there in Greek, Ietroy
Those are doctors, Ietroy
And you see the reference is the Iliad, 16
So at least by Homer's time
Right, we have this concept
This is an old, old concept
Who else is this way? Kierke
She is one of these
Knowing drugs or charms
What is a charm?
A charm, biochemist friend of mine
Is something that you put inside of your body
That causes you to enter a state
Yeah, okay
Beginning of the psychedelic renaissance
Here we go
Let's bring that back up, that definition please
Thank you, Julie
Who else do we call this?
Polypharmacos, many drugs
Pion, pion, right?
Pion, who is pion?
Who is pion?
Yeah, just come back to me
Pion is the therapeutic manifestation
Yeah, the great archer
Who by his poison
Brought to you by the serpents
He brings both death and life
Yeah, people always learn about that
When I was in graduate school
Why is it, why is it?
It's a healing cult
But he's the God of death, right?
Right, it's because you have to keep your hand
On that rope
And that rope is the pharmacologist
And that rope is the pharmacology
Okay
Look at these cultures
And look what they're doing
Look what they're using
Alright, Calderon is using specific sources
Bring up the next, please
Notice that he describes Cersei
As Nigromante in Cantadora in Ergumana
Now, excuse me if I mispronounced that
But I'm showing you the words
Original that he's using for necromancer
A singer or enchanter
Right, and one who is controlled by daimonace
He just stole a Greek word
He just stole it
I saw that dirty Calderon
I saw him
He just dove back there into the pool of antiquity
And he swam and he pulled up a word out of it
And he gave it to his people
I thought that's a person worth honoring right there
I admire that
Okay, next
I think we've got one more Calderon
Here, we're describing Cersei, right?
We're describing Cersei
And she says, that great star whose undiminished power
And beauty let along captive day, untired, delighted
Was my splinter crown, fire
Nice
All of these children, Cersei and Medea
That we talk about
They are the granddaughters of the sun
Yes, the granddaughters of the sun
Within our cult
Of sun, moon, and stars
So when I talk about darkening the sun
Right, when I talk about the power of the moon
These are the things
This geometry is coming from antiquity
And this Spaniard is swimming
He's swimming in it
Love it
And what does he say?
Being of Medea's kindred
I with her, a child was reared in Thessaly
As a sister
She was reared with her in Thessaly as a sister
And why is this important?
We bring up Thessaly
Hold on to the rope
That's in the cave, guys
Hold on to the rope
It's the drugs
Drug origins, Thessaly is known
For having the most bountiful supply
Of extremely toxic drugs
It's where all the witches come from
Right, why?
Because it's where they get their things
It's where they get their craft
As soon as your market goes to Rome
You get all this stuff in Rome
You got witches in Rome
You got witches in Rome picking up dead bodies
Not picking them up, but from the pile
Where they put them after the circus
Taking their organs and harvesting
Why? For the sake of chemistry
Dote and antidote
We have sources that say
The beginning of medicine
The very beginning of medicine
Is not...
Hippocrates, right?
What's going on a thousand years before Hippocrates?
Dote and antidote
Experimentation with toxins
These are cultures that have way more knowledge
Way more knowledge about human physiology
Than you understand
Or that we've been led to believe
Yeah, they're actually engineering people
With polypharmaceutical compounds
Fantastic, okay
So polypharmacy is one of the things
That we want to talk about
You can talk about treating illness
Or condition by means of a drug
And you can add many drugs to it
And have polypharmacy
Have a multi-pronged level
Of fighting, of medicine
There's another layer
There's a higher dimension
There's the next step up
And that's what we're doing tonight
Is showing you how
Not to treat the person with the drug
But to give the person the drug
Whose body will then become
The dispenser of the communion
This brings health and youth
Yeah
Yeah
That is this why
Cersei and the god of healing
Share the same epithet
Polypharmacon
Yeah, polypharmacy
It's the way to go
We'll get to the 3D model
Let's go to the next source
I wanted to throw this gent in
There's a little bit of nonice
Every time I try to see you
Just because it's nonice
Yeah, Hossepon
We're looking at line 68
Hossepon
A girl with an epithet
It's the honey of the nothingness
The other wh cents
Speaking thePR
Staying convinced
Yes
One of the archers is trying to convince him to do something right one of the archers he convinces and it says who is this man
Milan else
He isn't a man who is
given over
Inspirationally a man who enters into a state
That's state. They call the edamon and I'm about to show you the link
but who enters into a state
By means of the oyster
He specifically names the substance the compound that they're using
Yeah, the oyster by using the oyster's he enters into this state of
Literally the Greek it says of mind
Wondering wealth
Mind wandering wealth
Yeah, so we have these bow people
Who are associated with colors and drugs
Let's look next passage. This is great. Let's let's close in
I just want to look at you don't know that verb for what the gentleman was in when he was a state this drug state is that
shaken
driven
inspiration
That buzz
That buzz and they use this verb with another next
With another phrase
Yeah, erotido no menos
Overcome inspirationally
Overcome pharmacologically by eros
Take take that down. She way
Overcome at one moment by the eros and they are talking about a
Drug, you're talking about psychedelics
I'm talking about that realm
That they will take you to and they had an expression overcome by this eros
What is this?
eros
Imagine a
Remember that eros is an archer whose arrows are
Able to do two things to attract or repel
And the power is was considered to do that was considered a cosmic power
Let's see the compulsion and I want I want you to watch this
I'm going to show it to you twice and I'm going to ask you a different question both times
This time I want you to look for
The god of compulsion that is in this
In this document of the phenomenon that happened in recent history
You
You
You
So that was the accusation right Bacchus always brings to Aphrodite and it's entering a state
I know that wasn't what you were expecting, but that state was a drug
influenced state a
religious expression
Brought to you by the miracle of your own body's drugs
The idea behind the mystery is not
Producing a drug and getting it into an organism
the idea is
Taking over that organisms body
To produce the effects
That you desire and if you are
One of those lucky people to have gone through the process and to have seen
What they all see
You too would be born again
You would have that experience and you would see that reality
We've got I've got one more text. I've got to get it to you quickly
Gotta get it to you quickly
Chewie can you pull the next one up?
Yeah, okay. I just want to do a little bit. This is Bible study, right?
So what does this have to do with the Bible and I'm gonna read you just a little bit of the apocalypse chapter
17 and I hope that you're able to see it now like you weren't able to see it before
Kayelthen haste ecton have the angle so there came one of these seven angels who was holding
seven feet I lost
What is a fee a lay? Oh, it's a bowl or a pan. It's a saucer
Look around the definition. Look at be there under number two and you'll see that it's a use for anguents
Yes, I lost the odys muron in filet. It would be a filet there para tene
She's stretching out those proportions. She's preparing
Right that muron we talked about muron as being that drug that is used by the Iranian cult
Right that's dank
Desire right dank desire. That's the ode. That's the ode that they are using
right not the
Chanel but
dank
Yeah, okay
and
Please the next slide
Yeah, okay up and there was a woman
There was a oh go back up the one before
Sorry guys, we need the one for us. So one of the seven angels comes out and he's he's got these they all have these bowls
Right these preparation bowls for drugs a bunch of drug users, right?
This is a drug using this passage is so drenched in drugs and drug culture and cult that you will not you come away from this
drenched in a weight
Yes, and um
Yeah, he said called me and said come here. He said i'll show you the judgment of that pornae
That whore
That great whore the one that sits on
the mini waters
Yeah
With whom the kings of the earth
With whom the kings of the earth
Have pornated
Yes, and it's become drunk
Everybody's become drunk. What have they become drunk on to oinu taste porneas al taste
Take it down
We've discussed porneas and you know that if you look it up in alice, it'll tell you it's either fornication
and uh
Yeah fornication just leave it with that fornication and i or idolatry, right and you're like what?
How does sex and
Then church what do they have many things to do with each other? Well now they don't
But at one time
they did
and the integration of that orgasm
bring us the
bring us the uh
Yeah, here we go. Show us that one
The orgasmos right coming from or gao
Or gao just means to swell to the point of bursting
To swell to the point of bursting. That's why we call the rights the orgies
It's the same route
right, so
You'll see
You'll see this concept kind of come up and regenerate itself, right and you'll see this on on the
Cult side and medical side. Excuse me on the cult side and the medical side
so, okay next
Back to that passage, please
Yeah, and there was a woman seated there. Yeah, um
Let's see
She is cut. She's covered. Oh, this is great
I wanted to bring this one because we've seen this word before right peri-balo. It just means to throw around
Rides peri-balo men a here
It's the same word that I translated before is wrap with the naked boy that was with Jesus when he was arrested at 4 a.m
That naked boy was wrapped
Yeah, using the same word this time
She's wrapped with what poor food and kai koken on with that purple and the koken on and
I've shown you guys the poor fiery and for the chemists
Poor here the poor fiery is
One of the keys to the burning purple the burning purple is what they call a compound
Right. Okay. So bring us bring us back up text, please. So here she is in her robes
In her robes that are those dies that contain those dies
and
Look at this
Koki knows. Yeah, scarlet color starlet scarlet clothes, but I want you to notice at the bottom the word bap baphi
on baphi
Right that comes from the word baptizo. That's that dying word
So we're talking about dies and the use of dies and antiquity and here she is go ahead bring up the text again
Please
Thank you. And so there was a there was a woman and she's covered in this
these different
died
Things. Yeah, the poor fiery and yeah, it must have been beautiful
Right and she's really decked out. Right. She's gold
Steadified
Right gold and jewels jewel valuable Jews too. Timmy. I right honored, you know
esteemed jewels, you don't want somebody to steal them, right?
Kind of margaritas and pearls. Yeah, and what does she have a husa potato on?
Bring us the potato, please
There we go. No, that's the baphi. There's the dipping people for the
Oh, don't you love it the dying?
Oh, wait a minute. You mean you can halfway down the page. You can see the baphi who does
The arrow is dipped in the hydra's blood
Yeah, now, you know what heracles was doing
Right, heracles is part of a cult not like that, but there are cult centers the heracles all over the ancient world
Become because he becomes the sauteer within the cult and look
It's in the fingerprint of the word
Balthus
Right, you can't change that. You can't have an antinomy and step up and say blah, blah, blah, blah
Right, it's evidence. Sorry. No, it's just language. No theories here to argue
I have no theories put down your pitchfork
Be honest
Yes, right
What's the evidence the evidence is that there's a lot of drugs and dyes
And funny things going on here. What happens to this?
um woman
Yeah, she's uh, oh, what is she she's carrying that that
Potadion in her hand that cop with her hand
Yeah, and she's got um these
These delugmaton
these
Abominable
purgations these these
these
running
Oh substances
That flood out when you have catharsis
She's got that
Oh, yeah, thanks. Chewie. By the way, the drinking cup that they're using here notice that it's a drinking cup or wine cup in the beginning
And but then number two is the cup of the Eucharist, right?
So this same word is being used for very very specific
mystery religion purposes
Yeah, okay, and then we look look at the next I believe I got another definition
Yeah, delugma. Yeah
Abomination these are those off-runnings. What are this? These the abominations of the the abominations ton ere mosses on
Or ere mosses on excuse me. You guys recognize that from eremon
This is just ere mosses right an abstract noun
It is the wilderness
These delugma
right these abominable things
produce this
Off-running this catharsis bring a text up one more time this
this drawing away
Right of the things that are
That are unclean
right
What are they? What's their source?
There's a nice genitive there taste porno out taste
All right, where are we getting these runnings these pollutions these abominable things?
We're getting it from her porno
From her porno
Okay, I wanted people to see a poly
pharmaceutical operation here tonight
I wanted them to see the preparation of the cup
And that the process here is taking the individual
and transforming
the individual
So that the individual can then
Transform others around them
Yeah
It's a brilliant brilliant
Use of pharmacology. You're not trying to fight the disease
You're not trying to fight the disease
Go outside of that beyond that you are trying to tune the body
You are trying to tune the body so that the body becomes itself
The administrator of the communion
And this process which is described
Length is the mystery
That ultimately comes down to you when you hear a christian say, you know, celebrate trees or
It is a mystery. Um, they're not saying it the same way. They don't know that any of that background is back there
It's sitting right in front of them, right? I mean, look at this. We're just reading out of the bible
Right, it's there
All you have to do is pull it out. Give me that last quote. Please chew it in
Yeah, kayepito metta ponautes onama. There was a name written on her head
What was that name a lot of people of the translation screw this up so bad
Right musterion was hurting
That was the name
And then after we have a kind of a lengthy description of what?
That musterion means that musterion is
Bablon he me gale he meter ton or non
Kaiton del mat on taste gaze
That is the mother
The great
mother
We are in march
In a few in just a few days. They'll be celebrating in realm
Of two thousand years ago
They will be celebrating then
The rights of this very same divinity
You missed the title. I some of my students got it
but
The titles that you have of jesus
Right, all you have to do is plug them in and find them in the mystery religions of the pagans that were happening
1600 to 2600 years previously
And you'll find that those are very specific deities very specific functions right the savior
Who is the savior?
right, it's it's um
It's the language that'll show you that reality and that's what I hope to bring to people is that that reality
Um, this is the great mother
That we're talking about
This is lady babalon
Yes, um, I want to show you that elvis video one more time
Only this time I want you to find
The moment
of the rights
Peak the orge
Right the um orgasmos, right? I want you to see that find that point that religious point
Because that's the point we are shooting for in the right
The stretching imagine it this way the taking of that moment
And making it into a present eternity
Yeah
Give us one more time look for the look for the um
The budding the bursting
Oh
Oh
Oh
May cause wanted side effects
And so far they're very positive
Thank you for coming tonight. We're going to bring on now the
Our three guests who are going to give us each at a time their own impression
of
tonight's
Arena where we are with lady babalon. I want to start with neil
I want to start with neil and as we bring on neil. I want to say
neil
Could you please tell me
um the impression of a man who truly
honors the museum
Yeah, you said you we you couldn't have said it any better when you said it's not just about taking the drug
It's about the rights. It's about the
The uh the action
So I want to give you an example. First of all, I just want to point something out real quick the uh
The the plants that the roots are cut from that have the highest content of dmt
Which is acacia
Also happens to produce a blood red dye. I wonder if that's a coincidence or not
But that's all on their top for another day. I have a quick passage that I want to read that just
Highlights what you said if you don't mind it's five seconds long. It's about alexander the great from arian
Okay, this is from arian book five
of
Chapter two verses five through seven
They're in india alexander is all the way on the other side of the continent
And all of his men are kind of getting tired and they're kind of losing confidence
All of a sudden a sudden desire. This is why this is why I'm rocking the ivy diadem. You're going to see why
It's not about just the drug. It's about putting on the diadem and listen to this
a
sudden desire
Sees alexander to visit a certain memorial of Dionysus that the nisians boasted in india
He went to mount meros with his companions and the infantry and he saw the mountain
abounded with ivy and laurel
And the groves of all kind it was thickly shaded and had a manner of wild beasts to hunt
The mastodonians glad to see the ivy
Just on my head right now
For a long time as there was none else in india
And not else where where there and not elsewhere. There's vines either eagerly they fashion the reeds and bomb them at once
And saying Dionysus praises calling on the god by his various names
alexander sacrificed there to Dionysus and feasted with his companions
Some have reported
The inner circle
The initiates
Having crowned themselves with the ivy invoked the god were possessed by Dionysus
Honored him with cries of eva eva yakey yakey
And flew into a bachic frenzy
That's arian
Awesome awesome awesome awesome arian look at that man dredge up. That's a servant of the muse
That's a servant of the muse that'll dredge up a dead guy like that and say speak to us. That's
Necromancy. I love it neal. I love it neal snappy
Give us your impression or your two cents on tonight
What I keep thinking about and I keep coming back to is this
The drugs cause us to die, right? They take you to that moment
And what's clear to me is that orgasmos and that death moment are the same
The point is to die and then extend that right to it's like this paradox
You see the same thing in the myth of the core, right?
She gets sacrificed and that destruction is it's both a horrendous loss, but an infinite gain
It's where we see that paradox
Of the goddess's power at play, right? It's both creation and destruction
It's that cosmogonic arrows like you were describing with the arrows, right
Both the force of division and the force of return happening at once
That's what I got
Brilliant brilliant. Okay for anybody who was able to keep up with that brilliance
Um, I particularly like the idea that you have those opposites
Because that is so both that destruction and that creation
Because that is so orific
Um, okay. I'm that's going to bring me to question number two for you snappy
But rob question question number one your thoughts tonight. Um, you're two cents. I hope you're I hope you're fired up
No, I'm not fired up at all
I'm here for the drugs. That's what that that's two years ago today
Well, not today two years ago either today or yesterday
I
Initiated a quest for these drugs. That's where I want to I want to find these drugs
I listen to the part your podcast on sacred speaks
And from that point on I've been trying to find these drugs and trying to understand these mystery rights and
I can't explain there's loads of theories
There's lots to discuss
But I can't I can't I can't define them all as we can do is look at the sources and where we're getting
These drugs from because these drugs are from the ancient world. We need to look at the ancient sources
That's what you're doing and I love it
I can't I can't I can't say any any more than that. I haven't got any profound
comment on
How the how they work or I want to investigate it. That's where my standpoint is on that question
I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to answer that question
Fantastic fantastic. So that's nice. Look you've shown where the draw is right? You came here the
For the drugs in the first place. You wanted to see the history. You wanted to you know, you wanted the reality
Totally respectable. Okay. I have a question for everybody and then I'm just going to let people throughout what they want
um
Snappy and I were talking a little bit earlier about the
The connection, you know
Neil mentioned it very very nicely
With his little episode with alexander. That was a nice cut into this but we have this thing between east and west
Right and it seems to follow like a pattern of
The transmission of knowledge and of drugs
Right
Can you tell us something about just mentioned? I know it's not everybody's area of expertise, right?
I just want to you know discuss. How about some gypsies perhaps snappy
Yeah, right. So one thing like and when anamon and I were talking earlier
We were going over like I'm going to be doing an episode
My podcast with deon where we were going to be breaking down the tire mystery which is connected to
Hercules and is connected to the cult of mary salami and to the Phoenicians and
Eventually it winds up making its way to
alexandria
And it makes its way eventually to spain what's interesting about all of this is you also have
The gypsies following a very or the roma people also following a very similar kind of trajectory
so the story goes and some archaeological evidence to support this as well is that
Most of the roma people are employed
By alexandria the great and are brought to alexandria to be musicians and then later on
There's a diaspora and they're forced out of alexandria and they wind up making their way to spain
and all of this becomes really significant because we also have
Uh, the labors of hercules which talk about cadiz and the pillars and they recently just found a temple to hercules
In 2022, you know, so and it goes right back to what you were saying with that with the castle magic as well
like
There's so much of a deep connection here
And there's all of this thing with the trade routes and the the the sterian purple and how it
Makes its way across the Mediterranean basically
Yeah, it's there's something about that die cartel. You know what I mean? It's transmitting along with it
Um, this kind of spirit this bachic spirit with it. Yes. Um, I see
Neil is waving his drugs in the air
Fantastic
The the group because they talk about the root cutters and the sources. It's all root cutters. But the uh, sir sir
just happens to be
That the the plant in South America and in Tibet that has the highest
Numb percentage of DMT content also produces a red blood red dye
It makes you wonder was this this is another species of the same thing that these sources are writing about they describe it to a tea
Roots cut that produce dye and psychedelic experiences
It's too it's it's identical
Now neil explain to explain them, uh, the audience, please
Um, you're talking about the acacia root, which is what you're what you're what which is perfectly legal people. So
So you're talking about kind of a complex
Um, but doable chemistry there. Um, uh, fantastic and all right
What do you think then of the dyers, you know, we kind of these descriptions of the
Phoenician eyes and the mouth being dyed right like they're exposing themselves to it. Yeah
And oh doesn't the experience
Is not i'm not just talking about when you went to a party you took you took a couple of its mushrooms
And the room looked cool and there were some the walls are breathing. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about
Literally being in another dimension
I'm not saying that figuratively
You literally go somewhere else and you literally will speak to something
I don't know if you want to call it a god. You want to call it. It's something else
That literally will happen. I don't care what you believe in that could happen. It's fact
So neil, how does that how do we integrate that into medicine then because that's where
The um science is going. How do you bring this all down into?
You know the therapeutic world
Can can we resurrect these rights because these are ancient healing rights
Can we resurrect these rights? Is there you know, should we be
Looking into how to do this as far as I know it's been healing people's depression long term
As far as I know, I've haven't heard of any any downsides at all yet
As far as I'm talking like in controlled settings and and people doing it not not just going crazy and doing there
People doing this for real and being serious and being appropriate with it as far as I know
People when that's been down the right way, it's been 100 right. Perfect. There's been nothing
No overdoses enough just people being healed
depression
You know mental health issues stuff all all types of wide ranging things even people becoming more alert and more
Enlightened as a result changing like life changing stuff
Okay, so here's my question based on that. Here's my question for everybody and we'll finish with this
um
Watching Elvis and watching that spell
That takes place if we were to combine here's my question. Can we combine?
sexuality
with psychedelic drug use
to achieve healing
Yeah, and just real quick. I know I keep talking but
You the sexuality part is important because it's not just about taking the substance. It's about
Playing the part it's about the music. It's about the atmosphere. It's about meditation
It's about how you enter the state
So you the drug doesn't do all the work for you. You do have to work
By getting into that state
so yes
Yeah, I was just gonna basically go go along those lines. What's key here is the image, right?
One of the most important things like you can't just be having the drugs without the image itself
It's the image that we're trying to invoke that it's going to take us through the right
And if you look at the rights, there's all this procession, right? It's not enough to simply die
You have to die and be reborn
And then you have to invoke that image that everyone sees, right? Like this is the key here
And what I also want to highlight is just that we see a lot of these kind of mysteries surviving and healing people in our modern day
Like we can look at ayahuasca. We can look at ibogaine and while they're different and they're not the same
There is a there is a healing aspect that has survived and there is a transformative kind of death and rebirth
That happens that these people go through there is a communication with the ancestors
It's a similar kind of process
And I think like the more we learn to understand these drugs and approach this scientifically
We can try to recreate that and understand what this experience even really truly is
Nice nice rob you've got the last response. We're talking drugs cult and sex. It's all yours
Oh, that's a good book
There are the the eyes and the mouth for you. Yeah, um
What what what
What can you what what what can you do with with this? What what what are the possibilities?
I'm on that. That's I I've got a question not not a response. I've got a question. What are the possibilities?
I'm resurrecting this right
Because there's no doubt. There's no doubt. We're getting um
positive responses with psychedelic treatments. There's no doubt especially in
PST
post-traumatic stress
Right, we definitely get an end of life. There's terrific results. There isn't a complete across the board
success
There is there are other aspects to it, which I'm not going to go into but
this
What we discuss and the mystery and and the rights in the mystery is is is like a ladder
There's there's ladders that you climb. There's like um, so you go
The ala ala senior mysteries you'll go and perform those rights and the very
The very organized and the kind of guaranteed to have this mystical experience
You kind of guaranteed to go there and
Nobody ever complained. Don't put it that way and everybody liked going. Um
But that's not exactly the cave of trothonius
There's there's different places that you'll go to and there's different levels and different experiences
From what I can gather. I'm I'm not sure that it's just one
Simple method. I think you've got like you've got different psychedelics at play. You've got different
You've got lsd's lsa's
You've got psilocybin. You've got dmt
You you've got different drugs that are being formulated in an ancient setting in an ancient world
Now that can't you can't arrive at that with the modern chemistry that we've got
I can't get there with with the modern chemistry we've got
I'm trying we're trying to get there and we we need some serious assistance
We need bio biochemical assistance to resurrect this right
That's what we require and that's where we need to go into and get
Kind of some professional advice from somebody in these fields
That we need to go into, you know, you're not going to get there unless you you're getting this help from somebody out there
We need we need this help in my opinion. It's a very interesting
scenario because
The mystery that we discuss that we are discussing
The the mystery that gaelan's describing the mystery that might is going on in getsemmony
these these these rights what we are talking about
um
Are rather different to the allicinium mysteries
They're under the mysteries
but
I think the separate ones I think
Dianisis represents
A different type of mystery with with bromeos
I think that word means a heck of a lot and I'd like to
Investigate that I'd like to go into it which brings me to an announcement of a discord
um, I'm going to be as quick as I can but
The discord if you find the discord
Then you might be on the discord. I'm going to leave it at that what I'm going to say is it took me a while there
two years ago
I saw the sacred speaks podcast so
I try and
I spent three days in frantic research
I arrived at a boy called talus foros
And I wanted to contact him on
And it was uncontactable. You couldn't get old of him. He was virtually impossible. There was no web search
There was nowhere you could go to find him and I had to find him and I found him and I'm here today
And I'd suggest and I hope
Anybody who wants to get to the discord is either there already or knows the way
And and I'm going to leave it at that with the discord
I don't want to cause any controversy with it. It's an investigation into what these
episodes produce
I'll leave it at that. Thank you
fantastic, so rob
snappy and neil three
obvious cultists who want to be
Resurrecting ancient rites. I'm speaking to you evangelicals now. You see what a service I'm doing
Because this movement is being reborn
Right, it's being reborn. There is a time when the dragon
is released
Yes, love it. You guys
fantastic
Beautiful comments. Thank you so much for taking your time to join me
And to contribute and until next time hail Satan
