Well, you got me to come back.
It's gorgeous, and I appreciate it, because here and now, on this sabbat, we can finally
be in a place where we can function freely.
Everybody has a lender, but not me.
Just that stuff on the top of the mushroom, you lick it off, and it's real.
You know what I mean?
I don't know.
But I want to talk about these things.
And so I want to find out, I want to look at what's going on.
I want to find, I want to introduce you to Peter Jesus.
I want to introduce you to a Jesus that you do not know, but a real Jesus.
To be able to raise these spirits of the dead, like we have for with us tonight, and to be
able to work through them.
An assassination.
Yeah.
And so what you are doing is you have to first bring your aid along.
You have to construct your aid along.
It's an image.
And then you take this image, you purify the space around it so that it can be filled with
the daimonis, with the powers.
And the threat liturgy is harkening back to a sortitic necromancy.
And if you have a problem with that, you can just, um, saturn something fed by people
whose pretendentists know Greek and telling you, oh, it's from the Greek, and it means
this.
And they do not know it.
Can I get a Hail Satan?
Hail Satan.
It leads us so that we can penetrate and see that right as it's being performed.
Those of you who know the asterium, I talk to you.
I am Helik Monson.
If we really were in charge, if we were in control, if we were sitting on the throne,
and we were able to reach into his capacity to bring past, future, and present into one
moment, we would be able to take you and magically transform you.
Ah, without further ado.
Isn't that cool?
That's one of the coolest things I've ever seen.
You're following the fairy tale.
You're not looking at history in reason.
You're looking at the fairy tale.
Your faith will lead you to the end.
You're looking at history in reason.
You're looking at the fairy tale.
Your faith will lead you to the fairy tale to accept it.
Reason will lead you to the reality.
And there's no question whether or not you want to accept the reality, because the reality
doesn't care.
You can't.
Judaism and Christianity are the offshoot.
Are the offshoot of this oracular mystery.
She is Bronze Age.
She is before you.
And she manifests herself in the queen.
Yes, in the queen.
All of this pharmacology goes back somewhere.
And every signpost that I've seen points directly to Colchis, to the witch, Medea, who is developing the echidna.
We have this force, this tapas, which in my conception I equate with the ion.
This is our Saturn, right?
This tapas force is interacting with projepity, and it causes him to commit austerity.
Okay?
So he starts to attack himself.
And from the shedding on this, from the self-sacrifice, we get the arising of the gods.
We get the unfolding of creation.
90% of atheists who took psychedelics after one experience weren't atheists anymore.
This is dismaying to many of the psychedelic researchers, because it makes people essentially believe in
supernatural things.
You have lots of alien encounter experiences, alien entity experiences, telepathy.
There's reports of telepathy, out-of-body experiences, speaking to dead relatives.
It's the whole panorama of supernatural experiences.
So the answer to your question is, they're having a whole lot of trouble separating those things from the therapeutic experience,
because it seems to be that this experience of God is the therapeutic benefit.
What I think is most important about my work and what I find most interesting is uncovering
the pattern of metaphors that describe the sacred sacrament.
And once you've uncovered that, it's really quite simple and quite obvious why these metaphors existed.
But since they are metaphors, they've been interpreted in a entirely different way,
but people who are unaware of the fact that the ancients were into altered consciousness
by the use of the psychoactive sacrament or an antigen.
Mythology is filled with cows and bulls, but not ordinary cows and bulls,
because they're bulls that abduct maidens and maidens that have a passion for bulls.
And so it has nothing to do with the fact that while everyone likes to steak dinner or they did herd animals,
we're talking about sexual encounter with bulls, which is not an ordinary, expectable experience.
Bulls do not want to cooperate with women and women do not want to have sex with bulls.
You will live a dead woman. You will not cease. Departing this life and descending, I send you a force of death.
Well, that's another one we can pause and replay and pause and replay and write down notes
and come to the sources and replay and pause.
Thank you, Armin.
A job that he's not paid for and which he does so well.
And let's do that.
I'd just like to say thank you. Thank you to everybody for coming to them.
I've been the best. I've done my best to get through them and thank you very much.
It's kept me really new, some of the comments, because I've got a sense of humor and some of the comments are fantastic.
Thank you.
I'm privileged. I look at every once in a while, I think, oh my goodness, how nice it is to have such great comments.
Can we create a template where the muse is able to function?
I will ask the muse. I will ask the muse.
Most disturbing, real text so that you can see what that role is like.
You can know it. You can make your own decision.
And other than that, I say Hail Satan. Hail Satan. Hail Satan? Hail Satan.
Yeah, Hail Satan.
Hail Satan. That's it.
Yeah, Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan. Everybody, can I get a Hail Satan from everybody?
Yeah.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
