Drankin' whiskey, when that whiskey's burned to my veins
Indian goes crazy and the Scottsman wants to bash out the brain
Of an English man, don't know why
Got a little mixed up in the hills of Carolina
You see, you've gotcha sellin' and you got your drinkin' whiskey
Drankin' whiskey, when that whiskey's burned to my veins
One of them's hot dial so we're going to treat him that way
We know he's on the inside, we know he knows what they know
If you'd like, he is the accountant
So tonight we will persecute, prosecute, push, shove, research our way into the temple
Door's open, we take the books home tonight ourselves
Welcome
Fantastic, so here we are
And I'd like to have an introduction tonight
to a good, good, good witness
This is Anthony, I'm going to bring you Anthony and I want you to just sit for a minute
You know, where else can you get this, right?
Where else can you get this revived banquet that we're pursuing?
Remember, I've had you guys last two times we've been together
It's been kind of intimate, yeah, we've been into that right
I didn't tell you, I didn't tell you, but we put sex drugs in those communions that you partook of
And you might start getting your memory back
But before you do, let's play a game with Anthony
Anthony, could you enliven us with the images that will bring us...
Music
Music
Music
Music
Right, thanks Anthony, you've pointed us on the way now
If you can help us to bring forward
In chains, the exalted Isaiah
We will gladly put him to the questions
Because you see, there's a problem with the picture, there's a problem
We have tonight an inn with Isaiah because we want to find the missing siren
Yeah, we're looking for a siren and we know along the way in Isaiah
We know along the way are the Onokintauroi
These, oh, what are these guys?
Yeah, what we have so far description-wise is we've got the phallus of a donkey
Yes, and the understanding, the cute understanding and awareness of the drugs that they're using in their rites
These guys are tutors
These guys are tutors, but they're not regular centaurs, right?
They're actual tutors in a rite that looks like it's coming through Thrace
Yeah, looks like it's coming through Thrace
Let's find these guys, this is what we've been given tonight
This is fantastic, we've been given that ability to put him in the chair, right?
So, Anthony, help us bring up Isaiah, Anthony
Now, many of you will get a little bit of a queasiness
And this is going to be a little bit rougher than normal, but I need you to understand, right?
I need you to understand
So, you've been told something by the scholars, and you can go Wikipedia all you want
And you'll find that you've been told the same thing
And you're reading the Bible, you're reading Isaiah, and you think you're reading Isaiah, but the sad fact is you're not
You are reading a Hebrew fabrication brought to you through the eyes of a British king
Yes, that's what you're doing
You're reading a text that doesn't exist, it had to be made up
Tonight, we go to the Septuagint, the earliest form of this text
The one that we have, that everybody was reading and quoting, right?
It's all over Jesus' mouth, did you think we came here for any other reason?
Than to further our case against Jesus, right? In trans-dimensional court, right?
No, right? That's what we do, that's why we're here
For archons and everything, we're going to get some archons tonight, love it
Okay, so here we are, that's our way in
To the Jesus, through this Isaiah, right?
He's one of the guys on the inside and he knows
But, what happened is in the 10th century, these Maserids
And everybody says, everybody says, air make! air make! Hebrew, Hebrew!
I defy you to find for me any genre just find a genre of Aramaic
Find a genre of literature in Hebrew
Outside of what has been appropriated that you and I call the Old Testament now thanks to the kings of the Christians
Yes kings and popes
Love it. Love it. We're going back to the earliest form of the text
There is no Aramaic. There is no Hebrew. This is a Greek
Document and tonight we're going in that temple and we're seizing that document and
The way we're gonna do it is we're gonna question Isaiah right here, right sit down
sit down
Right under dress. We don't have to this is this is satanic, bro
We don't have to pull any punches. We'll get the truth out. We'll get the truth out
We want that historical account. We want that we get it through the language bring up that first
Give me that first text
Thanks, Anthony
Yeah, but wild bees shall rest there and the houses shall be filled with howling and
Monsters shall rest there and devils shall dance there and satyrs
Shall dwell there
Yeah, wait what I've never read that you've never read that
No, you've never read that or let me show you what you've been reading, right?
This is the real thing people. There's no appropriation here tonight. This is a rescue
We're on a rescue mission
Yeah, we're gonna take back these texts go up go up to it bring them back to their historical
Give me some of these English versions. What what kind of this? This is the jubilee 2000
the jubilee
As you ready, but desert creatures would lie down there and their houses will be full of owls
Ostriches will also live there. We in a zoo. Are these the same verses Isaiah?
Are these the same? Yeah, it's indicating. It's the same. It's hard to talk with a ball gag in your mouth, isn't it?
Here we go and their houses will be full of owls ostriches also will live there and shaggy goats
What was it they'll frolic there these shaggy goats that are frolicking hyenas will howl in their fortified town and
Jackals take that down jubilee jubilee. That's not kid. I can't be right jubilee
That's that's not what the text says at all jubilee. We're looking for sirens. We're looking for sirens and satyrs
That's what we're looking for is anybody else. We've been doing the bonk thing, right for those of you with ears to hear
Watch the mystery. Watch the mystery. Give us another translation. Who is this one by? Oh
This is the new living but desert creatures will lie down there
Wait, is this does this God work for organ or something? I don't understand and their houses will be full of owls
Ostriches will live there shaggy goats like they've got the same animals. What's going on? Give me the next one
Who is that next one by? It's this one. Yes
Mm-hmm and the wild beast of the island shall cry in their desolate house and
Dragons in their pleasant places and their time is near come wait. We've got dragons keep going keep going give me some of these
Give me some maybe we can oh here's one look. This is the international children's Bible
Shirley this one will give us oh
Ostriches
Ostriches hyenas
Hyenas bring it bring it down. It's starting to I'm starting to get queasy. This is Isaiah
I'm asking you Isaiah for the 13th time. I'm asking you to give me the information
Where'd you get these ostriches buddy? Where'd you get it? What what wait here comes here comes?
10th century it was what I didn't could you say a little bit louder for the jury 10th century
10th
10th century that's when all those idiots go back to the Aleppo codex
You see we dodge that they go back to the Aleppo codex. They're like
Right no, no, no, let's just go back to the Greek the Greek has the sirens
The Greek has the sirens and Sodom and Gomorrah. Oh
Love it love it. That's good stuff. We don't want we want to go there. Yeah, that's right
That's for you next
It's all bad cops tonight, right? We don't have to have a good cop around when it involves the text
We get the information out that we need
Right, can we go to another couple translations here? We have a couple more at the ending. Yeah. Oh
Here but desert creatures will lie down there in a house with full of owls
It's the same zoo that we've been going to anybody else desert creatures a lot of jackals owls
You know, it just depends on which are you going to enter the north side of the zoo?
You're gonna end of this north gate of the south gate take that down north gate of south
They look ostriches shaggy goats and hyenas these guys are everywhere
Where do we get these things come up to the look?
You know that I never ever bring up Hebrew because it has nothing to do with the Greek text that we're working with
Right, right. Okay. Wait kiddies. Wait kiddies pull it down and we'll put it back up. I forgot
This is the part I like best, right? Hey kiddies
This is how it worked. Yeah
There were all of these books
These scrolls and they all had Hebrew on them. It was something called the books of Moses
And we translated those
magically
Magically under the
Alexandrian influence the Ptolemy's we translate those we got 72 guys
We got a couple from each tribe. We send them into rooms and rabbis were like do it
And all of a sudden each of them
Wrote out a perfect exactly the same translation and that's what the Septuagint is
And
You don't believe that right because you don't believe in fairy tales
Right. We're classical philologists here. I don't care what the theology of that is. It's a bunch of crap
Yes, this text this is originally Greek text. Let's go back to it
That's 10th century stuff, right the Mazarets came along the Mazarets like dude if we don't establish
They're like, dude, if we don't establish the holy power of the Hebrew
The nothing belongs to us
All right, you can't have your orthodoxy if your Hebrew isn't your holy language. Oh God
Yeah, well
600 years before any of this proto Hebrew ever appeared
Greek was long established through the Mycetians. Yeah, linear a you guys with the Minoan. You're behind you're behind
Get it done. Get it done. Get it translated. We did our part do yours
Fantastic, let's keep going. I want to take you to the beginning of Isaiah 13. I want to take you to the beginning
Yeah, there we go. I'm just gonna flash the text up there just for a minute so you can look at it and say oh yum
This is yummy. This is a Septuagint for those of you who say you can read the Bible or you have read the Bible
You haven't and here's the proof that you haven't because this is it
This is it and what is the first word look up in that?
core corner
Corner
Look over here Horasus Horasus
Horasus look at that first word. Oh love it. Let's feel it together
Horasus
vision
vision
The vision of his sire
The one he saw
The one that was brought against the Babylonians
Against the great city Babylon. This is his vision
This is his vision blow it up there. Chewie. Thank you
Mmm, bring that sign bring it bring the sign
Raise the voice you Balkans. Are you hearing it? Raise the voice?
Do not fear
Summon me with your hand
You can hear the rock and roll music right in the background. Awesome. Yeah
Archons open the doors
Right portals, baby. These guys are opening portals right at the beginning Isaiah you junkie you sick
Sex drug taking junkie
Yeah, here we go. We got it. No, no, it's it's okay. It's gonna be in evidence, right?
We're taking it back. We're taking it back
I'm gonna put things right right. These are my sanctified. I'm gonna lead them. What's gonna happen?
Are you ready? Here it is. Here it is. Here's Jehovah and all this might come through the iraculate ritual
Right coming through. What's he saying boom boom boom gigante's air hunt that player all site on full moon move
Hi, don't taste. I'm ma guy who beads on taste
Yeah, giants are coming
Giants are coming
Giants are coming. Yeah
Ones that at the same time
We're gonna take joy. They're gonna be glad and take joy while they kill you
While they kill you
Yet, can you feel the evangelical fervor?
Bring up the evangelical fervor
Right, all of you evangelicals now. I'm addressing you a lot of the Catholics that are charismatic, too
A lot of the Catholics that are more like their Baptist brothers
Yeah, you know who I'm talking about
Yeah, all you opus day guys. You guys who want the Latin mass
By the way, the the wetest Latina is older than that is older than the any of those
Heber texts that we got right there were later
Right manufactured
Isn't that a surprise?
Yeah, no look at the language of the book of Genesis and you'll find out
Who the influences were linguistically and it's not what you think. It's not what you think
Take the text back right take the text this great belongs to us. It belongs to us
We have to take care of it. We serve the muse
Right, what cult do you have? We've got the cult of the muse gone
Right, it's gorgeous. I want to read to you a couple of verses, right?
I'll read to you a couple of verses while chewy flashes of things that are meant for your
programming
Behold
Edo God he met I call you
Hey, look, what's coming? It's coming the day of the Lord
Yeah, I need a toss. Oh
My
What's coming the passion is coming his destruction is coming right is over again
It's coming. What is he gonna do? He's gonna turn the Oicumin into a Ramon
a Ramon
He's going to bring back
Moses and every evangelist just got so happy
They just got so happy
Behold the land the day of the Lord you all die you all die
Yes
Love it. It's that great flocks right that great flocks. What? Oh, I'm sorry
That's an ancient mystery term. It's in the text that you don't know how to translate
So you don't know blah blah blah. That's what you get for having scholars that suck
Right, so say the watchers
It's having my conversation the other day with the watchers again. I'm like, dude, you know, I don't know
If they really do we are we going all the way or you know, it's like well, they're teachers, man
Look what kind of teachers they've got
Look what kind of teachers they've got
Go on Wikipedia. Look up the Septuagint. Look at what kind of teachers you've got
Look at what the scholars come to the biblical scholars those great biblical scholars that haven't I
was trying to
Was working with a potential new student
Yeah, letting them know that I wasn't going to teach him New Testament unless he read everything around it unless he had an
Attic stream to drink from unless he could bring Homer, which is being taught in the first century unless he could bring Homer
Right, I think it was overwhelming for him
Right, you got to know the level of commitment you have to your sources. We're investigators, man. This is not a game
Do you see me?
Do you see me selling t-shirts? I'm not here to sell t-shirts
All right, it's not a game. This is the initiation
Get back on that throne love it. Okay. I want to read to you a little bit more
Of my versology. Yeah, behold the day of the lord, right?
Right, right. He's gonna destroy you all right
for the stars of uranos
The stars of uranos and then Orion and the cosmos
And wait a minute those of you who've been with us from the beginning all of a sudden he's speaking your language
How is this possible
How is this profetist? Do you realize the word prophet is a greek word?
Do you realize the word synagogue is a greek word?
Do you see why the mazerites very intelligently said if we're going to own this material
We've got to create a heaver original
King james picked that up and ran with it. He was like it's all good with me
And then everybody after him it's even a wick cliff, you know, everybody gives those wick cliff translators
They give them such kudos kudos for you guys your wick cliff translators. Look what you've done
Your translation sucks
It sucks
Yes, fantastic. Yeah, why?
Because it's a science and you have to you know, we're all scientists sitting here and you have to exercise
discretion
Now scientific discretion with these sources you have to pull up the language and let the language
Give you the
Amino acids that are your basis for life. Yeah, it's gorgeous
Oh, let's let the isa open your mouth again. Take off that take off that dead prophets ball gag
No, don't see that
Don't see that. I'm just kidding. I wouldn't do that once you've got somebody in that position
You gotta wait for all the drugs to wear off anyway, right?
Okay, um Babylon right he keeps going on about Babylon until we get to verse 21
21
Do we have those up here bring us verse 21 up there for 21 and 22
21 and 22. Yeah, this is fantastic Kai
On a power son die ecce theory
There's gonna be theory out there. Remember the theory act that we talked about
There's going to be theory
Who are establishing themselves there?
Yeah, and what are they doing? They're causing the a who
Those places of dwelling are filled with the a who
The a who the echo
Okay, remember we're in the mystery. We're performing the mystery
We've got people who are using the echo
And there on a power son die ecce serenes there are set up the serenes. Give us a sign
Here she is finally, right? You didn't know that there were sirens in the bible, right? You're like, no
Nobody showed me that one. Here it is
Sirens bring us the siren. Um, it's the definition of Alice. I smell Alice. Alice. There you go. No, that's almost there
Um siren. Give me a siren. Oh, here she is
Serene sereno see the serenes those are used
gorgeous gorgeous sirens
And look, oh, it's this involves trickery
Don't be surprised if the sirens are able to charm you
Look at their names. What are the names of those sirens? They're always the charming voice the charming song
And when I say charming, I don't mean Prince charming
Right, I'm not talking about Henry Cavill
Right, I'm talking about
Confusing you
Yes, I'm talking about putting you into a state
Giving you some drugs drugs that make you think about aphrodite
That's what I'm thinking about doing because this is amazonian traditions. We're propagating remember when the amazonians take their husbands
You know what they do
They're not called husbands. They're called maters
And they go out and they chase them down
They chase them down. You this can happen when you've got people with poisons
Yeah, and the poison arrow, that's the way to remember
Remember those archeresses, you know, they're good
Those medusae they use those drugs
Effectively you get that cup from her. You're gonna enter death bra. Remember Jesus in the garden
He's like in the cemetery. Is that naked boy?
boom 28 minutes. I did it
That kid that naked kid that he's with right? He's all like stumbling in the beginning. He's like confused
And he's like, oh, I don't want to take this cup, right?
Right because he knows what it's gonna do
He knows what it's gonna do
He was
tripping
When he died
He was tripping
autopsy reports
Jesus gonna be full
Just wait
They're gonna be full. I know it's not our department, right? We'll let the science boys work with that one
All right, we're just here to work on our subpoena. All right come bring that information forward
So we've got sirens. We've got sirens. Get us back to sirens. Here they are
Here are our witnesses. Are you ready sirens bring them up bring them up
Go go back down. Give me a little more alice right there
Right there. Yep. One below one below. I want you to see the verb that this comes from say that
It's one of the you know, they talk about the etymology of siren. What's it what it means?
But it has to do with that sparkling star. Are you surprised to find out that the stars are there?
It's in the text of isaiya. He's using it
Hello
The constellations are there. Hello
Right. It's just burning hot and scorching. Go to the next one
Yeah
Celia to sparkle or twinkle. Isn't it nice to burn in a visual way?
Yes. Yes. Nice. They can cause you
To wander. Do you remember the girl in the mithraic right that we were initiating?
Do you remember her?
She became a fellow wanderer
She became a fellow wanderer. Yes, what we're seeing in isaiya
Is that right?
And it is from the vantage of those who would bring it to an end
Who would bring it to an end?
Who else do we have there in this right? Let's bring up the greek from the 21 23
21 to 22
Yeah, here we go. Here we go
Love it. Love it. Look at right before verse 22 orchey sonta. What are they doing?
They're a daimonia there
Did you know they weren't daimonia? There's no you thought you were in a zoo with ostriches
I just want to can I relish take that down bring we're bringing back up and say
I just want to relish in this for one second right over all of you pastors
over all of you priests
Over all of you teachers bible scholars brilliant people following the traditions
You mononomials and trinomials and
and fart blasts and
Fantastics you guys are you guys are all part of the sex that are the best
Right and you guys bring it and none of you
None of you even knew that your zoo
Was a creation thrown in front of your face
None of you knew that you were living in a simulation you pastors have stood up there in those pulpits
And you braced the holy word of god to cleanse
By the blood of christ the sins of humanity
You've brought them forward and you've watched them born again
And none of you know that the rights were rights of sirens
You thought you were going to a zoo full of ostriches
I hear the jackal exhibit is nice if you'd like to go there
Yeah
Yeah, welcome to the real
Welcome to the real let's see what else we've got there besides the chorus. There's a chorus. Does anybody see there's a chorus?
Oh my goodness. That's what's causing that echo
Can you hear it? We're there at the right now shut up if you don't
No, the sacred kramata
if you don't
silence
Silence silence good. Let's go back to 21 22. Let's finish it off
Oh my god, look at 22. There's ono kintaro right there
Yeah, you know what that is the ono there is the
ass
the ass
donkey
donkey
donkey
Is what zekel tells us is the shape of their private parts
The ones the girl wants
Oula and uuleba
Right, here we are
Do you want to get involved in this right? You know when you dedicate your donor to the temple, right?
All those requests that she's had bring out henry campville
Right bring him out. It's okay. It's okay. We made him a eunuch
Right
He's yeah, he's how does he spend his days in a dress. It's lingerie and the rules still stand
We come this way
To satanic initiation through lingerie
And a platinum wig
Love it. Absolutely. Love it. There's a reason there's a reason
So here we are back to that verse. We've got the ono kintaro
And you know, they're gonna have a good time with him, you know what I mean go hit it
Hmm ecce katoi case scene. Yes kite nosa poyesus in a he noi
These a he noi. So there's these a he noi that are setting up there
So
There's some a he noi. Let's go back to the ecce. What is the ecce?
Hmm this one this one gets the treatment, you know, and people are hilarious with this one people are hilarious because
They don't want to
Bother with the scientific stuff. Do you see the first reference that's up here? It's n i c
That's necanders. Guess what th stands for that's his theriac
So if you're going to penetrate this you better know about priests and you better know about drugs
Yeah, this is fantastic. You see that viper sitting there. You see that viper sitting there
You know how they normally translate this
You know some kind of spine
animal with you know hedgehog
Oh my god, what are the who are the ecce noi? Anyway, you know who the ecce noi are in the greek
Those people from the ionian sea
All right, did you guys forget we were in history? No, you didn't
All right, fantastic. We're in history. The bible scholars do
They forget because you know, they got their mind in fairy tale world
jumping up and down
Right, i'll see an air make
Right go home go home. This is ours and here they are
Here they are
Lovely so you see we've got those satyrs
We've got those satyrs no satyrs and those sirens. Have you ever heard a siren sing?
She will bewitch you with her voice
You will not return
From her concert
Yeah, you will not return from her concert. You think everybody goes home
Uh-uh not when you go see the siren
Yeah sirens
Sirens and satyrs
Lots of rites bringing the orge
Bringing that rat. He's gonna destroy him just like he did saw them
Just like he did saw them
when you see
the abomination of
desolation
eremosis
When you see it in the temple
Run to the hills run to the hills
Thank you for coming tonight. We will have a
Time a little time tonight that we're going to
On discord we're going to do
You know what can only be described as a form of initiation
We are going to resurrect
the ghost
of lord Byron
Who was a hero fan?
surprise surprise
He was a hero fan
and we will work with his work his play
short one actor
called
Kane a mystery
And we will go back to saw them, but we will go on the next level back to saw them
We will go
Back to the oracular
Inquiry
With individuals speaking directly to the devil
Directly to the devil you have a chance
You have a chance through the spirit of lord Byron to speak directly to the devil and for the devil
To talk to you on a personal one to one basis
Contract
Will be involved
Yes a contract will be involved just
For the back of your mind those of you who have ears to hear
And have been in the initiation are seated now with that coofy all around you
All right, you will understand the contract without even
Visualizing the verbal contract right you'll understand the motion the physics of that
Fantastic
Here we are. Um, what do we do tonight? We took isaabak
All right, we took isaabak
And we showed you what he was about you aren't going to get that from any church or any synagogue in the world
Yeah, you're not going to get it
But we have it sitting right here have it right here in our text available
It's my job
To give you access to those works
For those of you who'll be joining us
I'll take 30 minutes to rest and to recharge
And i'll be right there for those of you who are just visiting for the initiation tonight. Thank you
Thank you. Let the scholars
Let the scholars be
Knowledgeable cognizant of their own shortcomings
Let isaabak
Speak
In the court as witness
to the rights
The rights that link us to the reason that jesus was arrested in a public park
At 4 a.m. In the presence of a naked boy screaming. I am not a child trafficker
Have a good weekend. Hail satan drinking whiskey
Oh
