Sunday morning, dark clouds rising, oh there's no sunshine anywhere.
Strong winds blowing, God give us wisdom to grasp the message in the air.
Oh, if I could have one wish and know that it would come true,
And wish that God would give us strength to know just what to do,
Then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Fences created by such evil men, then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Maybe we could walk together again.
Welcome to Wednesday night, Lady Babylon Bible Study.
This is going to be a night that I am going to change your perspective.
I'm going to take you to a reality that you didn't know existed.
You can never come back.
It's my privilege and honor to do this, but you can never come back tonight on Lady Babylon.
We're going to skip over the comments tonight because it requires so much energy on my part to do this.
We're going to open up a rift and we're going to show you a place that you didn't know exists, but it's here and now.
I want you to see, I want you to see who these people are.
We're going to look into Peter's lover tonight and we're going to see something that we haven't seen.
I want to purify this space.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
And now we bring the new reality.
And we're going to clip it in.
We had enough time for the ship to get there.
Let's step out.
Today we're going to go see the boys.
We're going to go see Jesus and his boys.
You thought the naked kid that was with Jesus in the public park when he was arrested at 4 a.m. screaming, I'm not a pirate.
You thought that kid was the only one, didn't you?
Or maybe you remember the other kid that was with Martha in the tomb?
Remember him?
Tonight we're going to look at a ship full of lost boys.
And I'm going to immediately buckle in because we're immediately going to have our orientation flipped.
Many of you are sitting there thinking that the apostles were old men.
No, no.
It turns out they were all teenagers.
Yeah.
The apostles were teenagers.
I'm going to reach in and pull this right out of an organization that is gateway, crossroads or something of Israel, promoting the evangelical agendas.
And we're going to hear it from their mouths.
Tell us about the age of Jesus' followers.
You personally want to look like Jesus.
A good place to start is to have a bunch of 13 to 18 year olds around you, following you and asking you questions all the time.
The disciples were not 30 year old bearded men.
They were 12 to 19 years old.
When Jesus wanted to change the world, he chose teenagers to do it.
Okay.
I want to play that again because I want you to hear it right out of their own lips.
I want you to hear it.
The apostles are teenagers.
Roughly from 10 to 12 ish up to 19 ish.
Yeah.
So when we talk about the youngest and the oldest, we're not talking about dudes with beards.
When you look at that painting, that famous painting, what was that Renaissance artist?
Shame on you.
Was it Da Vinci?
Shame on you.
Yes, you deserve it because you painted a bunch of bearded.
Was it Raphael?
I don't remember.
You painted a bunch of bearded.
Look at these bearded men.
Who are these men?
Who are these men?
They look like some of them look like neighbors that have had before, right?
But the problem is those were not the people that were there at that table.
They were children.
They were lost boys.
I want you to hear it from his mouth one more time.
Praise Jesus.
Hit that thing, Cliff.
You personally want to look like Jesus.
A good place to start is to have a bunch of 13 to 18 year olds around you following you
and asking you questions all the time.
The disciples were not 30 year old bearded men.
They were 12 to 19 years old.
When Jesus wanted to change the world, he chose teenagers to do it.
Yes, he chose teenagers.
Yes, he chose teenagers to build his church on and he called them kiddies.
Come here, kiddies.
We're going to look at a wonderful scene tonight when Jesus goes out to the ship where Peter is naked with a whole ship full of boys.
My goodness.
My goodness.
What are these naked teens and youngers doing here with Jesus?
Well, he's standing there on the shore saying, you got any fish sauce?
I got a meal and they're like, look, it's vampire resurrected pirate Jesus.
Oh my God.
It's a ship full of children.
Did anybody notice that?
It's a ship full of children and Peter is naked.
Now, if you think these are my ideas, you're wrong.
And I don't want to see in any comments these.
I want to see people upset with known us, not with me.
I want to see people upset with the gospel of John, not with me.
We're going to go jump straight in tonight to the text and I want you.
Oh, it's just okay.
Okay.
Let's see what happens to the lost boys.
Let's see what happens.
Pull up the first text for me, Chewie.
I want you to before you forget.
I want you to realize this is from excellent Eskily and chorus.
I just want you to hear this.
You know, those girls who are called the virgins of caucus, you know what they are?
They're the best fighters around.
Right.
They like to those city and the ones that live around the lake.
Today call a job.
Take it down.
Yeah, virgins want you to remember that.
Go to number two.
Let's see number two.
Yeah, we're going to be hurrying tonight, Chewie.
It's great.
And I want you to keep this one thing in mind too before we're going to Wonderland.
Don't worry.
Don't worry.
We're going to find Peter Pan and we're going to find the lost boys.
But I want you to realize the scientific gateway that we've got to walk through.
Look at this text right here.
This is from the Orphic Argonautica.
What does this say?
It says Jason overcame.
Hipsypally with a love drug was love drugs.
It's actually in plural.
Lots of them love drugs.
Oh my God.
Field choice.
Right.
What is a field throne?
It's a love drug.
You mean Jason was pulling a Bill Cosby.
If Bill Cosby had kept his victims awake.
But put them into a malleable state where they were aroused and psychotic.
Then he would be doing this.
He wasn't just knocking people out.
This is part of a ritual.
It's part of being a Christ.
Sorry if you don't like it.
If you don't like it, it's not me.
It's the sources.
Let's go to the third one, the next one up.
Okay.
Here we get.
Look at the field throne.
I want you to notice on the bottom line, we have the same word here.
I'll just translate it for you.
This is when Jesus is talking to Peter and he's like, am I your favorite?
Who's your favorite?
What about your male prostitute, buddies?
He calls them male prostitutes?
Yup.
Male prostitutes.
Runaways who work with lace-dace.
Oh my God.
You're kidding.
Jesus is apostles?
His followers?
Yes.
Let's go back to that text.
What does it say?
When Jesus is giving Peter a hard time, what does Peter say to him?
He says, you know my friend, you know who I am.
Right?
You know what's going on.
You know what?
You know how I contributed to you.
The sweet love concoction that we aren't supposed to talk about.
Yup.
You gave him what, Peter?
How old are you?
And you gave him what?
You gave him that fieldtron?
The one that we're talking about with Aphrodite?
Oh my goodness.
Oh my good.
It's going to get worse people.
Just trust me.
Trust me.
Now by worse I mean it's going to get more graphic.
Right?
We're already at worse because it's, we got a ship full of kids in the Bible with Jesus
in a form that it can only be described as vampiric.
Having risen from the dead.
You knew it would be three days, right?
Yeah.
Love it.
Love it.
We got him.
We got him.
Next, next.
Give me.
Yeah.
Here.
I just want you to see this.
Take that.
Yeah.
Here's your love charm, your fieldtron.
Oh, tiny little space I have here.
Look at this.
Love charm, a potion, a charm or a spell.
But look at number three.
It becomes generalized.
It's just kind of loving.
It's just kind of loving.
Sexuality.
Look what kind of sexual affection I gave you, Jesus.
The kind that we don't talk about.
The unmentionable love, Jesus, that I gave to you.
So when we're in transdimensional court, the jury will hear the grooming.
This is professional grooming.
You didn't know Jesus was a child groomer, did you?
Well, now you know why he's screaming.
I'm not a laystace.
I'm not a trafficker in children.
Right?
Okay.
Let's keep going.
Let's go back to the text.
Yep.
There we go.
Here.
Look at this, people.
This is more of that same passage, but I just want to read it to you from the top.
Jesus answered.
He answered Peter right back with his own oomph and said, Simon, you're the child of John who has beautiful children.
Wait, what did Jesus say?
You're the child of John who has beautiful boys.
Yeah.
So tell me something.
Would you rather love me alone or all of your head Tyrone, who was homozygous?
Wait, all of his Tyrone, all of his companions, all of his prostitutes.
Hmm.
These boys are prostitutes.
These boys are prostitutes.
No, Ness.
Why?
Why didn't anybody tell me this in Bible school?
I wish I had known.
I wish I had known.
It makes a lot more sense, doesn't it?
You see them on the boat earlier and there's a storm.
They're all like screaming like children.
Jesus is sleeping down the bottom.
He's like, oh, you frigging people.
Right.
And he like a parent.
He brings calm.
He does what that magus does.
He had to tell him that he was doing that, right?
Calming the storm.
It's what they all do.
Okay.
Give me that same passage.
Give me that same passage.
Boom.
I want to.
Okay.
So he says, you know, and what is your homozygous?
Male prostitute buddies.
That's somebody that you're entered into a relationship
together, whether working or sexual.
So these are his buddies of the other apostles are Peter's
buddies who are in the trafficking business.
Now you're going to see it.
It becomes even more clear than, than this coming up.
So buckle up.
Hold on.
Are you ready?
Look at the next line.
Yeah.
And so he asks him a second time, right?
He responds to, he responds to Jesus, his bossy laos.
He does it again.
He responds to him again.
Cause he'd already told him once, I love you the most man.
Right.
And what does he say here?
Look at the line nine 94.
It says, I'm going to translate it literally.
It says Simon, the fisherman of male bands.
Male bands.
Agales is a band.
It's a band of boys.
It's a band of boys.
Peter, I'll make you a fisherman of men.
Yeah.
Fishermen of men.
Right.
What does notice do with the fishermen of men?
And remember, notice is privy to the cult.
So for him, this is just more like history than, than any sort of paraphrase or metabolite.
Any who, um, here he is.
And he says, one of these people, what are they doing here?
Yeah.
Let's go back to the text one more time, one more time.
Glorious image.
Love it.
Let's go.
Yeah.
And what does he say here?
He says he's the fisherman of those, those, that band of boys.
And he says, certainly great king.
Right.
You know my heart.
You know my heart.
You know yourself how I gave you, I provided for you that sweet unspeakable love.
Okay.
Keep going down.
Let's go to another one.
Look at this.
I just want you to see it.
Simon is the, is the hunter fisherman.
Fisherman of that boy band.
The boy band.
Yeah.
We know they did it in Sparta too.
Right.
The boy band.
This is what Peter is.
Yep.
Why do you think they called them.
Mathetes students.
Do you think bearded old men walked around as students?
No.
They didn't.
These are the people who are just above the age of the pedagogue, that lower education.
We'd say that primary education level.
These are boys immediately pre and post puberty.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Let's see what the official titles are.
What these boys are doing.
Give me the next one.
Sure.
If you can.
Fantastic.
I just want you to see.
Here's the homozygous.
Yeah.
We know this.
It's the companions.
The Heteron.
Those are his public prostitute friends.
Keep going.
Yep.
Oh, and this is a good one.
Yeah.
What would you rather do?
He says, he asked Peter.
He says, I got pods.
Do you love all of those Sumige on Heteron, all of those prostitute boys.
That are Sumige.
What is Sumige on?
What is Sumige on?
All right.
Look at this.
Something that is Sumingis is what?
What does that say?
Mixed up together.
Coming.
Promiscuous.
Those promiscuous little boys.
Yeah.
They're apostles.
All of them.
Now you understand why you have to become as a child.
In order to enter the kingdom of heaven.
And remember, the kingdom of heaven also makes eunuchs.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Before tonight, my entire audience, I'll just take a second.
Before tonight, you thought it was just the naked boy that was in the garden with them
when he was rested.
You didn't realize those three apostles who were standing at a distance.
You didn't, you didn't realize that they were children too, did you?
Yeah, you didn't.
You got to become like a child if you want to follow Jesus.
Yeah.
Don't scandalize.
Whatever you do, Jesus says.
Do not scandalize me.
Okay, we got him, people.
It's all here.
It's, you know, there's, there's no way a jury can get this information and not, not
finding just over the top guilty of 104 different cosmic felonies.
It's fantastic.
Next one, please.
Take a look at this guys.
Oh, so Jesus shows up.
There was a couple of passages here.
We didn't skip anything.
I don't think the boom, boom, boom.
No.
Okay.
So there's a couple of passages that set this up, but here's Jesus, you know, he's
standing there next to the shore.
Peter goes out fishing.
He's like, I'm going fishing.
The boys are like, let's go.
Right.
And they're going with you with, with Peter and they get on a ship.
But it says they didn't catch anything.
They didn't catch any fish.
And the next morning, Peter wakes up on the boat naked.
Peter, you drugged out sex fame.
I feel sorry for you that he did what he did to you, Peter.
We got to get Peter to flip and give a confession.
That's all there is to it.
He's got to let people know exactly where Jesus touched him.
Yeah, exactly what he did to him.
Did he do what he did to that boy in the garden?
Did he even, did he do that and wrap that and use that medicine and you ended up three
days later wondering what felt so funny about your body?
Huh.
Interesting.
Peter, you got to tell us, take us back to the sources.
Let's hit people with a few more sources.
Right.
You got no response tonight.
The critics got no response tonight.
They can't.
How can they stand against this stuff?
The very next one.
Yeah.
And so, oh, here it is people.
Here's the lawyer's point, right?
All you lawyers out there, this is the one.
It's admissible and trans dimensional court.
And this is the one that has it.
Are you ready?
What's he going to do?
Jesus got some, some goodies for him, right?
And he's there on the beach and they're waking up in the morning.
One of them goes, oh my God, it's Christ.
And they jump out and Peter puts his pants on.
Right.
Right.
And there they are.
And Jesus says, like, dude, you guys don't have any fish sauce.
It's the clove rule way of saying fish, just a fish meal.
You guys don't.
You out there is fishermen and you didn't catch any fish.
You didn't catch any fish.
Good.
Look, he's got everything ready to cook up a nice meal.
He's got everything.
This is going to be a beach morning beach party.
But what does he say in that text that is so disturbing that we're going to get him
on?
Look at that third line.
First, he says, oh my kiddies, what does he call them?
It's gross, too.
Right.
It gets gross because he uses the diminutive with Peter's like, you love me so much.
Feed my sheepies.
What?
That's what he called his little boys.
He called him his sheepies.
It's not even sheep in Greek.
It's a diminutive.
My little sheep.
My little sheep.
Okay.
Are you one of Jesus's little sheep?
Is that what you are?
You want to know what those real sheep were in the beginning?
They were victims of abuse and rape.
Jesus was a child rapist.
Let's see.
Let's see what he said in that last.
Let's translate that one line.
Bring up one line.
What is it?
Woo.
There it is.
Pides.
He calls them children.
My little children.
What kind of children?
Dresteres.
Wait a minute.
That's like, what?
That's like a professional term.
What?
Something of the sea.
Some kind of here.
Alice, see if you can tell us Alice what that is.
Look, what is it?
Dresteres.
A labor working person.
Working woman.
But if you funnel it through didrosco.
It's the runaway.
The one attached to the lace days.
The lace days.
Do you see the word lace days?
All of you.
All of you evangelicals right now who were sitting there.
A spanking for you.
This is a spanking for you.
Look, it's right there.
Lace days.
All of you evangelicals are saying, it's a word for thief and that naked boy wasn't naked.
He was dead.
And he was 30.
Okay.
Do you know what gives me the ability to do that?
I mean, I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Okay.
Do you know what gives me the ability to do that?
Classical philology.
The language.
The boys are coworkers.
They have a shared monetary interest.
They are gaming from their association with Jesus.
And you wonder why when he's arrested with a naked kid again, why it is that everybody's
saying, what Jesus?
What?
You're not a who?
You're not a lace dace.
Okay.
Okay.
And then a mob forms.
Angry mob.
Angry mob.
And Jesus' worst nightmare comes true.
His cover is blown.
Jesus is Larry Nasser.
As soon as somebody comes forward and says something.
That's it.
You live by silence.
There are those of you who have ears to hear because Jesus has groomed you and has initiated
you.
Yeah.
You wondered what he needed to marry with all our sex drugs.
Did you think that Jesus was in any business other than child sex trade?
You have another thing coming.
Love it.
Let's go to the next text.
Okay.
Look, I've got just a couple.
Look, these are nice little punctuation marks.
Boom.
Look at this.
This is John 21-16.
Yeah, he says to him again a second time.
Simon, son of John, do you love me?
And he says back to him, yeah, Lord, you know that I love you.
And he says back to him, then shepherd my probatea.
Oh, God, it's so gross when you hear it off his lips.
You know, little sheepies.
Yeah.
It's disgusting.
Give me the next one.
Look, look what he calls it.
This is the Bible, by the way.
For those of you, that's the Bible.
Right?
Here's more of the Bible.
What does he call them in John?
Paidea.
Look at that second line.
Paidea.
You know what that is?
That's the plural of the diminutive.
Again, my little, a diminutive for child, my little boys, my little child.
Come here, my children.
Come here.
Yeah.
Let him come unto me.
And they start yelling, hey, we don't like the way he's touching them.
And by touch, they meant molest.
We don't like the way he's aggressively molesting the children.
Don't scandalize me, says Jesus.
Don't scandalize me.
And you build churches and crosses to this guy.
You read books that are written by morons who praise this guy.
Yeah.
You study science that these morons contradict.
And you still give them room.
You still give them room while they destroy your civilization.
Do you wonder why the watchers think we're a bunch of morons?
Do you wonder?
Those are the lost boys.
Your reality now is that the apostles were a bunch of abused children.
And your world is made up of people who prop that garbage up.
Who just bring you down with the hall and the hall.
And you just shell them out.
You pay them all your bucks.
All your bucks go to these people.
And you are supporting an organization that was started by a child trafficker.
You want to save the children?
You morons?
You fools.
You want to save the children?
The guy that you snuggled with.
He was snuggling children.
Yeah.
Isn't that ironic?
What a twist.
What a twist in evangelical world.
What a twist.
Your God is the one who is the rapist of children.
The thing that you run around saying,
Yeah, we're going to save the children.
We're going to rip down this society and save the children just like we did in the first century.
And we just watch it happen.
Right?
It's all they're supposed to do.
The watchers anyway.
I'm going to read to you a little bit of Celsus.
Just for the sake of the Celsus, please.
I just want to quote Celsus, can you come here?
And some people call him Celsus.
That's fine.
I've heard medieval, people who do medieval Latin.
I've heard them say Celsus.
But you know, Celsus, there was a physician named Celsus too.
Good Roman physician.
Wrote a lot about drugs.
Let's see what Celsus says.
The honor the Christians pay to Jesus is no different from the sort paid to Hadrian's favorite boy, Antinois.
The honor they pay to Jesus is the same as the cult of Antinois.
Do you know who Antinois was?
He was Hadrian's naked boy.
Hadrian wasn't arrested in the public park at 4 a.m. like Jesus was.
But he had his boys like Jesus did.
And you know, he had one that he had a certain special affinity for.
And you know, it's the way it was.
It's the way it was.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is how the Christians worship, says Celsus.
They're worshiping in the same rights as the boy loving rights of Antinois.
Didn't she like your wife, Hadrian?
Shut up.
I'm sorry.
I didn't realize that was a sensitive issue.
We don't have it recorded anywhere, Hadrian, that you ever expressed an interest in women.
But we know that you and Antinois, oh, and he was handsome.
He was handsome.
Handsome kid, right?
We know that you and Antinois had this thing going.
Poor Antinois.
He turned 20 and got murdered.
Can you believe that?
Talk about jealousy.
Can't run foul.
Can't run a foul.
Ganymede's got to be somewhere.
Zeus has got his Ganymede.
Heracles has his.
Highless.
Jesus has his Peter.
Yeah.
Do you know what Jesus told Peter to do?
He said, if you love me and you're giving me your, your sauce of your, your magic sauce
of drugs, glory.
You're giving me the love that I want you to feed my little sheepkins.
I want you to nourish them.
My little sheepkins.
Yeah.
Do you see what Christianity is?
It is a ring of a pedophile who not only is able to have his cake and to eat it, but
he trains the next generation of cake.
Yeah.
The next thing you know, you're 2023.
We got a bakery full of cake.
It's Cosmos is a bakery full of cake now.
That's how it spreads.
Are you telling me Dr.
Oman?
Are you telling me that Jesus Christ was a spreader of a cult whose purpose was to rape
children perpetually?
Let's look at the facts.
Let's look at the outcome.
Let's look at the outcome.
Yeah.
What do we know about the outcome?
It's tight.
Let's go to one more source.
I want to go to this source and then I'm going to, I think I'm going to call in Gnostic
Informant who's going to give you a little bit of information about some naughty monks
with their boys.
Let's go to this text though.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Do you love me?
Like a son in poros.
Right.
What is this kid?
What is this kid to Jesus?
What's the young kid?
This is talking about the young one.
What is the young one that Jesus has a relationship with undoubtedly?
Right.
The one he says he loved.
And if he uses the same expressions that author a secret secret mark is using means
he stayed with him for the night.
Remember the little kid that's leaning on Jesus?
You didn't realize the last supper.
Do you have that last supper?
Bring that thing.
Da Vinci.
Get it.
Get your bald, dumb head in here and give us that.
Where's the one that's leaning?
Do we have any leaners?
No.
Is it on the line?
I can't tell.
I was hoping to find the leaner.
We don't see the kid there where he's not there.
Da Vinci, you're excused.
Okay.
But you're going to have to supply like a 10 to 12 year old kid and have him leaning
against Jesus while they're having their banquet.
Right.
And the two other kiddies who were children of Martha.
Yeah.
No, Salome.
They were children of Salome.
They said, hey, you're going to talk us into being able to sit next to Jesus, mommy.
You wonder why the parents complained.
You wondered.
Right.
Some of them do and some of them don't.
Right.
Some of them like the grooming.
It's all part of the pizzazz.
Right.
You're going to be in the kingdom of heaven.
This is lovely.
What a lovely freak show this is.
Let's go.
Let's go to that last.
Yep.
Okay.
You're a Sunim Poros.
What is the kid to Jesus?
He's this.
Are you ready?
You're going to, don't be shocked.
Don't be shocked.
He's a fellow traveler companion.
No, he's not that.
Look at number two.
Look at number two.
A partner with him for gain.
Right.
This is his traveling boy.
Do you know what you can do?
What is the street value of a boy?
The one that Jesus is prostituting.
What's the street value of that?
You know, he does give him a home.
Right.
He's like, Hey kid, stay with mom.
I'm so thirsty.
Sorry.
That's what the text says.
Okay.
And by the way, and Johnny does end up drinking it.
So, you know, he's, he's whacked.
Let's go to one more.
Please.
Let's just go.
Is there any of this?
It's good.
Oh, lucky.
People are love this.
I know.
Thanks for waiting, Neil.
Wait just five more minutes.
I'll finish up.
Let's see.
Go bring me that one.
Yeah.
Here.
This is John 21 four.
And so early in the morning, I just wanted you to see early in the morning.
This is in the boat, right?
And Jesus standing there on the shoreline, right?
And so are these little students, right?
These little students, they don't recognize them because they're on the boat.
They don't recognize me.
Stand on the shore.
Okay.
Yeah.
And what happens?
Jesus says them.
Hey, kiddos.
Spidey, uh, right?
You got nothing to eat, right?
And they asked him, no, we're hungry.
Why?
And here he comes.
What's going to happen then?
Well, look at this.
Simon on the second line.
Simon Peter there for it when he heard that he was Jesus.
He wrapped himself in some clothing because he was naked.
And Gargumnos, right?
On a boat offshore with a bunch of boys.
Okay.
And now I want you to see how historically difficult this has been to translate because
people don't want to talk about what he's doing naked boys, right?
Or what he's doing naked with the boys.
So when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put his outer garment on parentheses.
The parentheses do not exist in that text for he was stripped for work.
Oh, I see.
Uh, yeah, I get naked when I fish too.
Right.
I, and when I fall asleep after I've been fishing and haven't caught anything, I naturally
just fall asleep naked because that's what I've been doing all night.
Naked fishing.
I'm going to go fish.
Take it down.
I'm going to go fish naked with Jesus.
Do you see how he was groomed?
Do you see how Peter's groomed?
I don't know how, whether I should feel bad for him or whether I should say, hey, dude,
you're propping up some bad stuff.
Right.
You need to go to the authorities.
Well, you know, they did.
They got him and Peter ran away.
Did you wonder?
Everybody ran, dude.
Everybody ran.
I am not a lace.
I'm not a child trafficker.
Right.
Over and over again, that lace stays is a child trafficker.
Fantastic.
And I know that there are evangelicals among you.
Oh, I want it to be so much the robber.
It's not.
Isn't it?
Sorry.
These are all children.
Yeah.
These are all children.
Go back to the.
Yep.
Go for it.
And here's another translation.
He wrapped his outer garment around him for he had taken it off.
Okay.
So let me get this.
He was sleeping.
He wasn't naked because he fishes naked.
He was sleeping.
And when he woke up, when he woke up, um, he took his pants off real quick and put
him back on.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
Maybe his underwear.
He took his underwear off and he put it back up.
He took his linen, his loincloth off and he was like, whoo.
Right.
And then he put it back on when Jesus got there.
Why is this kid dressing?
Why is it teenage?
You're dressing and all the church people right now, I can feel.
I can, I can feel the constriction of their rectums.
Right.
I can feel it.
Um, they're going to say, Oh, Peter had a wife at that young age.
No, I didn't.
There's no record of his wife anywhere.
There is only the statement that Jesus treated one of his in-laws.
It could have been his sister-in-law and which makes sense.
Cause there was no, she never shows up anywhere else.
And she doesn't mind that Peter is spending the night on the boat with a bunch of kids
and ended up naked.
Yeah.
Remember when Jesus shores up on the shore, he is totally rocking a resurrected vampire
body.
It's gorgeous.
Oh, I can't wait to show you his track marks.
We're going to look at those next week.
You mean Jesus had track marks?
Yeah.
Yeah.
You, what did you think they were?
Yeah.
It's okay.
They're kids too.
Let's go to the last, the very last one and just see.
Yeah.
Oops.
Yeah.
Here's a little bit.
Look.
Yeah.
Oh God.
He's now.
Okay.
Here's the, here's the confession.
Are you ready?
Um, you know, Jesus did a lot of other things in front of his boy companions.
Yeah.
Um, but, um, he, and he revealed a lot of many varied signs.
And, and he was a, he was a witness to the truth.
This guy, John, right?
The one who's writing this thing.
And he wrote this prophetic book.
And what did he do?
He dictated everything.
And he did so.
The things that he didn't talk about.
He did so in willing silence, in prudent silence.
He didn't reveal everything.
Okay.
Okay.
Now you can see it.
Let's bring in, um, let's bring in Neil.
Neil, you've been sitting there for way too long.
I know you're good.
Floor.
Thank you for the time.
And I'm going to give, Neil, I want you to just give me firsthand.
I want you to tell me any reactions.
And then I want you to give a little presentation on some dirty monks.
Yeah.
So first of all, uh, over a hundred people, 108 people watching right now.
So that's, that's big numbers right there.
But I wanted to say for everyone that's watching,
if you think what he just got into was dark and deep and dirty,
it's just getting started.
It's about to get even crazier right now.
So first thing I want to show, I have like seven screens that I want to go through.
Some of them will be really quick, a couple of them I'm going to read,
but I just want to go through these for a particular reason.
I got the one on the bottom right now.
Cause you mentioned the disciple that you mentioned the young boy in the,
who's on Jesus's shoulder.
And this is from the gospel of John where it talks about this.
Disciple whom Jesus loved or in some cases the beloved of Jesus,
depending on what you're looking, what passage you're looking at.
And he's always depicted and it's described in the text as a young boy
hanging on Jesus, half asleep.
Like, like a cup, like, like, like his little, well that's what the beloved is by the way.
This is what I'm about to get into.
So the Greek, I'm going to go to my next screen now.
The Greek that they use is a term called agap, agapatos, right?
Beloved.
Now you, as a, you just shook your head like, yep, yep, here we go.
Cause you know that this term is used all over the ancient Greek world
for young boys who are being groomed by older males.
The beloved.
It's all over the place.
The beloved of Archelaus, the beloved of so-and-so.
And they use it in this, in the same context in the, in the, in the New Testament.
The beloved of Jesus.
So let's go to, I don't want to, I don't care what Bible has to say about this work.
It's all, it's all just what, you know, their spin.
Let's go to Alice.
Let's see what Alice says about this word.
We got agapatos, right?
Okay.
One says that wherewith one must be content, hence of only children, right?
It's always used in the context of beloved children.
And it's like, of things desirable, persons, beloved.
And one of the sources that's in here is Aristophanes Thesmophoria.
And I didn't even, I just found this at the last second.
It's the craziest text.
I just want to show it real quick.
And I want to get into some of this semen Eucharist stuff that I got.
But yeah.
So the next one I got is from Aristophanes.
And it's, it's using the same context as beloved child.
And what's going on here is this priest is, I don't know if you could help me out here
to help me describe what's happening here.
I think this priest is about to sacrifice this child and the mother is calling it.
So that's my beloved child.
And like, let's just read it where it says, he says, but you, my child, take off this
cretin robe and blame no one but your mother for your death.
What does this mean?
The little girl is nothing but a skin filled with wine and a shod with Persian slippers.
And it says, and then so if you keep going, it says, are you the, are you the mother of
this brat?
She's like, I carried it for 10 months.
You carried it.
I swear by Artemis.
How much does it hold?
The three Kotolai?
Tell me.
Oh, what have you done?
You shall have stripped this poor child quite naked.
And it is so small, so small.
Yes, quite small to be sure.
How old is it?
Has it seen the feast of cups thrice or four times?
It was born about the time of the last Dionysia.
But which is like a year old, two years old.
What does that mean?
And it says, no, may Apollo bear my witness.
Well, then we are going to burn you.
Burn me, but then I shall rip open this instantly.
No, I jure you don't.
Don't do anything like that.
Rather me, rather me that rather me than that.
What a tender mother you are.
But nevertheless, I shall rip it open.
He tears open the wine skin.
And then she starts crying.
Oh, my beloved daughter, mania, hand me the sacred cup that I may at least catch the
blood of my child holds it below.
That's the only favor I grant you.
He pours the wine into the cup.
Oh, out upon you, you pitiless.
What is even going on here?
It's a bunch of women getting intoxicated for the thesmaphoria, right?
So that's kind of the comedy relief of it is that, you know, they're describing the
wine skin as that beloved child, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
But go ahead.
I thought it was interesting because it's always depicting this beloved of Jesus holding
the cup.
He's always got the cup in his hand.
And there's the Eucharist.
And so like, I'm going to show us another source right now from Augustine regarding the Eucharist
in Carthage.
This is a primary source from it's a Latin source, but I had the translation of it.
It's called on heresies by Augustine.
And he's talking about this, this case that happened down in Carthage.
This is this one I got to read says for this reason, based upon the so called seduction
of the Archons myth, or rather because some demand of their sacrilegious superstitions,
their elect are forced to consume a sort of Eucharist sprinkled with human seed in order
that the divine substance may be freed, even from that, just it is from other foods which
they receive.
However, they deny that because they do this in assert as true that some others do it using
the name of the Manicheans.
Okay.
But they are exposed at the church of Carthage.
As you know, we were already a deacon there at the time under the prosecution of Ursus,
Tribune, who was then prefix in the palace.
Some were brought to trial at this time, a girl by the name of Margarita, betrayed this
monstrous ugliness and claimed that she was not yet 12 years old, and that she had been
violated on account of this wicked right.
So we have in one case, in one situation here, we have these, these bishops in Carthage drinking
semen and molesting young women, young 12-year-old girls.
This is in one passage.
Like, whoa, like this is getting deep right here.
And then it goes on to say that she had undergone some treatment because of their very same
right.
First, she maintained that she was intact and insisted on being examined as a midwife,
by a midwife.
But when she was examined, when her true condition was discovered, she likewise gave information
on that whole extremely ugly crime.
So she was raped.
And look at this, at which flower is sprinkled between a couple, in sexual intercourse, to
receive a commingle with their seed.
This she had not heard when Margarita gave her testimony.
Like, whoa, this is some crazy, and look at, look at this.
When you go down here, then he starts talking about some of the stuff that they were into.
He says, nevertheless, they were inserted into other groups, Manicheans, books of Manny.
That's not what I'm looking for.
Oh, here it is.
And then these books are described monstrous things.
This is from the mouth of Augustine, relating to the transformation of males into females
and females into males, to attract and loosen through consip, consip, sense, the prince of
darkness of both sexes, so that the divine substance, which held captive in them, may
be set free and escape.
Whoo!
What kind of bolt is going on over there in Carthage?
Damn!
Yeah.
Yeah.
Look, people, it's the mysteries right in front of your face being brought to you, those
mysteries.
And sure enough, right at the helm of it is pedophilia.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Epiphanias is saying they're drinking semen for a reason, you know what I mean?
And by the way...
Yeah.
Now, what do you think, Neil?
What do you think?
You see the pedophilia, right?
And, you know, you look at Jesus and his situation, how much of Christianity is the perpetuation
of pedophilia, you know?
Well, that's what I wanted to say, because to bring it back to Jesus now, the depiction
of Jesus and his beloved boy hanging out on his shoulder, I think you can argue that
this was the beginning of a tradition of the master and beloved, master and beloved.
And by the way, when you look at these early church fathers, you'll see, Marcian was the
beloved of Paul, and then Polycarp was the beloved of Marcian, and then there's a chain
going down.
Like, you grow up as a young boy being someone's beloved, you get groomed by them.
And then once you get older and you learn, now you are in charge, you get a beloved.
And that cycle goes on, and that's the church.
That's the tradition.
It's kind of like a grooming tradition in that sense, and I think it starts with Jesus
and his beloved.
I think that's the whole point of John is telling you that this is what you're supposed
to do.
You're supposed to go and get a little child, put them under your wing, and raise them to
be the next Christian, basically, the next bishop, the next Episcopos.
That's dark.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, Heracles and his Highless, right?
Yeah, and then we'll go back to the ancient Greek stuff.
Like, this was all happening left and right.
It doesn't surprise me at all to see the structure of the organized approach to grooming and
raping children.
That doesn't surprise me at all.
What surprises me is that the church has for so long been able to misrepresent the classical
sources to give you this phony picture that never existed.
The image that you have of Jesus, think of, you know, come on, you all thought Jesus.
I'm talking to the audience.
You all thought Jesus was walking around with bearded men.
Right?
You thought he was.
You didn't know that he was with children, right?
You might have thought differently in your church if Theta had presented him that way
to you.
You might have thought differently.
Would you think differently, Neil?
You were a Christian.
Did you?
Did you ever consider, I mean, when you were a Christian, Neil, were you thinking these
are grown men?
Yes.
I did.
And you just assume that because it's just kind of what it's assumed.
But once you realize, once you actually get into the evidence and realize that these are
kids following a 30-year-old man, what?
That's not, that's, we all, as a society right now in 2023, we all agree that's not cool.
That's actually illegal, I think, to do that, like, and like, but that's their perfect God
figure that they're going to worship and, whoa, like, that changes some things for me
right there.
I also have more evidence.
I have two more I want to show.
More evidence that this stuff is continuing, even as the, into the third and fourth century.
So this is from St. Anthony, the next one I want to show.
And it said that a hermit had a little boy living with him.
Like, boom, we're out the bat.
We already have a hermit with a boy living with him, seeing him doing something that
was not fitting.
Don't do that.
But the child did not obey him, seeing that he was disobedient, the hermit.
So basically, I'm just, I'm basically just showing you, like, okay, even in this case
of these desert fathers, it's an older man living with a boy, doesn't say it's a son,
just says it's a hermit living with a boy.
Now the next one is where shit gets crazy.
I wanted to show that first for a reason.
The next one, this is the one that I really want to touch on, get your thoughts on, because
this is the one I saved for last, because it says a lot about the church early on, as
this one, can you see this one or no, I'll read it if you can't read it.
It says, a brother tempted by a demon went to a hermit and said, these two monks over
there who lived together sinfully, but the hermit knew that a demon was deceiving him.
So he called the brothers to him in the evening, and he put out a mat for them and covered
them with a single blanket.
These are sons of God and holy persons, basically saying, how dare you blame these, blame them
for doing, you know, whatever you're blaming them of.
These are sons of God and holy persons, shut this slandering up, so they blame it on Satan,
right?
And then it says, a brother said to a hermit, what am I to do for these foul thoughts are
killing me?
When a mother wants to wean her baby, she smears something bitter on her breast, but when
the infant comes as usual to suckle, he tastes the bitterness and is repelled.
So you ought to put bitterness into your thought.
The brother said to him, what is bit what bitterness is this?
The hermit said to him, the thought of death and torment, which is prepared in the next
world for sinners.
This is where it gets crazy.
A brother asked a hermit about thoughts of this kind.
This is homosexual thoughts.
And he says, the hermit said, I have never been tempted by that.
The brother was, the brother was scandalized by him and went to the second hermit and said,
look here, the hermit said this to me and I'm shocked because it is unnatural.
He said to him, the meaning of the words of that man of God isn't on the surface.
Go and apologize to him and you will show, and we'll show you the power in his words.
So the brother went to the hermit and apologized to him.
He said, forgive me, Abba father, I was a fool and I did not, did not say goodbye to
you when I left.
He explained to me how it is that you are not troubled by lust.
He said, how do you do it?
These thoughts are killing me, he's saying.
And he says, he said, therefore the reason is this, since ever I became a monk, I have
never taken my fill of bread or water or sleep.
And he's basically saying, I can't see the bottom part because of my screen, but it says
like, when I put myself into a state of fasting and discomfort, the pricks of lust are gone.
So the reason why I think this is interesting is they are fighting.
They are fighting natural thoughts of homosexuality, like they're calling it demons.
They're going, oh my God, these thoughts are killing me.
Oh, make sure you fast and don't sleep good.
Just live like it, just make sure you torture yourself.
That way you won't have lust.
Like what is going on with these people?
Like what is, there's nothing alluring about this lifestyle at all to me.
It sounds horrible.
It sounds like hell, sounds like you're making yourself live in hell.
You know, isn't that, am I, am I crazy for thinking that?
No, no, I'm sorry.
Oh, did you just get muted?
I can't hear you right now.
Maybe it's just me.
There we go.
There we go.
Oh, no, I can't hear you again.
Is it, is it on my end?
Maybe it's on my end.
Let's see what the chat says.
Can you guys see him, hear him?
Check, check.
Yep, you got me.
Now you're back.
Now you're back.
Go ahead.
Okay, fantastic.
It's probably on my end.
Thanks, Joey.
Fantastic.
Oh, no, I'm sorry.
It's just so funny to listen to the maniac.
You're muted again.
It came off.
Jehovah does not want you to talk right now.
I'll talk.
Okay.
So, on one hand, the pedophilia thing, that's just disgusting.
The fact that you had these hermits living out in the desert, desert in the wilderness
with just one boy, that's crazy.
That's weird.
Now, on the other hand, two hermits living together and having those thoughts, completely
natural, and they're fighting it to the death like it's a demon that's trying to capture
them.
And there's just so many moving parts here because, obviously, on the one hand, pedophilia
is just crazy, horrible, and disgusting.
But it's happening.
We have tons of evidence that it's happening.
And on the other hand, maybe if you just went with who you are and not tried to fight it,
maybe you wouldn't be that doing pedophilia.
Just throwing ideas out there.
But I just think it was interesting at the end.
He's saying, these thoughts are killing me.
What do I do?
How do I stop these thoughts?
And I'm just like that.
And instead of saying, oh, I'll pray to God or Jesus will cure you, and he's basically
telling him to treat yourself like shit and don't eat any food and don't sleep.
And then once you're feeling really bad, you won't have a loss.
That's crazy.
That's insane.
OK.
OK.
Can you hear me, Niels?
Yeah.
OK.
So when you, let me ask you this now, since you have that in mind, when you look at Jesus'
advice to his young children, pupils, when he says, look, Tommy, if you look at a woman
and think dirty thoughts about her, you might as well have raped her right there, right?
You can't notice that there's an orientation in the teaching that is a very sexual orientation.
Yeah.
So I think this grooming thing is part of some, you know, this is part of the cultural
traditions, don't you think?
Not only that, the abolition of the law because of that.
So when, like when Jesus throws that out there and says, you're, you're, you're screwed.
You'll never follow the laws of Moses.
You are done.
In fact, even if you think about it, you've already committed it.
So therefore, the sins are actually, it's in the hearts.
It's what your, it's what your intentions are.
It's not about the flesh.
It's about the heart.
Let's not get circumcised in the flesh.
Let's get circumcised in the heart, but that philosophy packed inside of it, almost as
an abolition of the law and the physical sense, meaning you can go and do those things as
long as you're not consumed by it and it doesn't control you.
So Paul talks about this.
Paul says, you know, you might go to a pagan's house for dinner and they might sacrifice
some meat, sacrifice it to idols and don't ask, don't tell, cares.
They're basically setting themselves up for a tradition in which these things are allowed
in a weird sense because they had this new mentality of it's all about the spiritual.
It's not about the physical.
It's not about the flesh.
Who cares what you put inside your body?
It's all about what comes out of your body, duh, and they're setting themselves up so
they can do that can allow themselves to do these type of things.
I think that, yeah, I totally, yeah, that's a beautiful painted picture of the history.
Now, with Jesus being in the middle of all this, do you how do we bring it stop?
How do we bring it to the point that people see these images?
So for two, you know, for 1400 years, we've had images, maybe 1600.
We've had images of the apostles.
What if someone were to construct an accurate image of Jesus with his children,
talking about the stuff that he's talking about being on that boat, naked kids running around,
getting arrested in a cemetery again, naked kids with other, you know, even if Peter's only 19,
you know, it still doesn't excuse, you know, oh, well, he's 19.
Well, OK, but he's passing it on to the next generation, to James and John.
They're the sons of that lightning, that drug that we're using.
They're the youngest ones, too, so they might be like 12.
Yeah, so can you, what would happen, Neil, if you drew this picture for people?
Like if you used your AI and brought up pictures of accurate, historically accurate,
or at least accurate to the texts of pictures of Jesus with the boys, what would happen?
You get your 30-year-old Jesus, 31-year-old John the Baptist, and then a bunch of teenagers.
And now, all of a sudden, and they're all getting bathed, they're all bathing in the Jordan
and putting oil on each other and anointing each other, like, wait, what's going on?
Now, all of a sudden, the picture doesn't look like it did before.
These aren't a bunch of bearded old men that are trying to save, you know, get saved.
And no, this is a two-grown 30-year-olds that are bathing people and bathing teenagers.
It's a little different now, right?
It's very, you know, it reminds me of all that hullabaloo with the boy scouts
and before that, all the hullabaloo with the priests and stuff like that.
Yeah, it's how we get, you can see the judges in Rome, they would just be shaking their heads
like, no, no, this is, you know, the same thing.
You clear this stuff out because the Romans arrest people.
People are shocked that Origen cuts his, oh, and testicles off, right?
He doesn't want to be taken up in the legal sweep of the Christians who are taking children
and raping them.
They're taking orphans off the street and raping them in the undercrops
of the places where they're hanging out.
Oh, my God.
And what do you do about that?
Well, the Romans just arrested them, right?
That's just Origen cuts his testicles off, you know.
It makes you wonder if the system was designed to continue that because every day
and almost every day in the news, in some city, somewhere, there's another Catholic priest
doing the same thing again and again and again.
And it's been, you can pull up any here.
1983, pick a random one.
1972, 1941, you're going to find a whole list of priests that got in trouble that year.
Should have a calendar.
That's insane.
That's insane.
We should have a calendar, a sacred calendar of, and every week we'll have a leader.
We'll dig up whatever priest it was and whatever century that did whatever raping they did then.
And we'll just make a whole calendar.
You could paper the whole, you could have every day a different
you know, we won't call them saints.
We'll call them nonce and we'll say that they're, you know, raping the children.
Oh, my God, Neil, is it set up for this?
The mystery is itself an engineered child rape fest.
Oh, my God.
And Jesus is doing it from the very beginning.
Neil, tell me this.
What are the, what are the people who are following the following the vampires that are
drinking kiddies blood, you know, on wearing faces and stuff like that?
What, what do those people think when they, when they reach the point that it turns out
Jesus, well, he was right in the middle of this.
He was, his last name could have been Epstein.
You know what I mean?
What, what are people going to do?
What is this?
How does this affect Jesus?
And how do we take this message to the poor evangelicals who don't realize that their
Lord and savior was a pedophile?
Well, that's why I wanted to start off by showing that word, the agapitas.
This word is being used by John, the gospel of John for Jesus's favorite
disciple, who's a young boy.
And, and like, you think this has nothing, there's no impact on the traditions that
follow from this text?
Like, you really think it has nothing to do with it.
And this is all separate.
I don't know about that.
I think you're, I think that's a stretch for you to say that.
Cause I'm, what, what else did we do?
Like, what else is happening here?
You mentioned about, you go even deeper with yours, where you can talk about how
down the night before he's handed over, you got the boy with the
send-down running by.
And I remember the first time you showed me that, I said, how do I never
notice this?
What a random thing to put in there.
Like, even if Mark is not really history, all right?
Cause you know what people will say, it's just mythology.
They're, it's a legend.
Even if it's not, the fact that this story gets attributed to Jesus says a lot
about what's going on with the tradition itself.
So Jesus being the beginning of this whole thing, these things being attributed
to him, and then now look what's happening as a, as a, as a cause and
effect down the road.
And it's, you got to wonder, is it because of what's, how it started off?
I think, yeah.
I want to, I want to, I'm going to make that the last word and I'm going to say
to people, I want people to notice that all Neil did was bring up the sources.
Right?
That's all I did.
He just gave you the sources, the shocking value of it all was just from
what they were reporting, what those sources are reporting.
Yeah.
This is our key.
This is our key.
And if you want, if you want to get some more background context on how common
this type of thinking was, there's, there's these pre-paralites text,
erotic epigrams, and that you could flip through them.
And it's just, there's tons and tons and tons of grooming and pedophilia going
down in the Greek world.
So Christianity is a part of that world.
It's coming out of that world.
It's the, it's the middle man between that world and the, and the new world, the,
you know, the middle ages, like, you know, the world that we're in now, basically.
So yeah, there's clearly some of that stuff going on.
Gorgeous.
Neil, thanks for coming tonight.
I really appreciate your time and I want to tell everybody, you know,
I appreciate the fact that people have been, people have been getting touched with me
and, you know, there are projects going on that people want to take this material
and they want to use it and show people things.
That's the whole idea of the museum.
You have two people here tonight just talking sources and these sources
belong to all of us.
So Neil, thank you for coming tonight.
Everybody, thank you for coming tonight and donating.
Yeah, 115 people watching.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
No, I, and I appreciate it.
I appreciate it.
Every one of them.
That's big.
Every one of them.
And please send your complaints.
Please don't let me down.
Don't let me down.
Send your complaints.
Defend Jesus's pedophilia, please.
Hey, Neil, thanks for coming and Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
All in maybe we could walk together again, just maybe we could walk together again.
