Secret messages.
Why did you ever change your name?
Because you were like a wave on the ocean
Wild and free you came
And you were like a storm coming out of mountains
Never to be tamed all the way
Why did you ever change your name?
All the way
Why did you ever change your name?
Welcome back to the Lady Babylon Wednesday Night Bible Study Season 7
Final season.
So tonight, you know what I'm going to do?
I'm going to tell you what I'm going to do to you tonight.
I am going to take you.
I'm going to take you back to the heart of temple practices.
We're going to get in there, right in there.
We're going right in the temple.
We're going to see what they're doing and you're going to be surprised.
You're going to be surprised what's going on in Judea.
You're going to be surprised.
Tonight on Lady Babylon.
Okay, we're going to professionally go somewhere.
We're going to expedite this.
We're going to, by the time I'm done talking, we're going to be there.
We're going to be in that place again where we're looking at the past and the future
and our present bubble, bringing everything together.
But we're going to do so with standards, people.
Standards.
I've been watching some new things coming out from popular people quoting Greek Bible scholars, people Bible scholars.
Laughable.
Laughably, if it weren't so morally bankrupt.
Yeah, they do not honor the gods.
They don't.
DK, she's not there or she would insist that the museum be honored.
That's what we're doing tonight.
And I smell the sulfur.
Remember from the party we had last time?
We're going back.
We're going back.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see Jesus angry, setting up his place, taking his territory, putting his foot down.
I'm the man in this market.
You get your rotten stuff out of here.
Where are the doves?
Okay, let's see them do it, people.
I want to see them poor.
We're just going right to the tags, right?
For anybody who's upset.
Oh, but before, let's purify.
Right?
We've got to purify this place.
I'm sorry.
I almost forgot.
Chewy looks at me, grunted.
There's a dude that needs welcoming.
Dumas again.
Where's Dumas?
Alex, purify this place.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
O!
Thank you, thank you Alex.
I appreciate it.
The air is a lot clearer.
Let's get into the text now. I'm taking this get ready get off the bus today
Put on your dirty boots and your dirty pants
Bring the rough ones that you can rub against the rocks because today
We've got to go deep into the one
rock-bottom joint
Where you can get service?
To get to the third and fourth heavens
That's where we're going
We're going to the cafe temple at Jerusalem. That's where we're going
Thank you. Oh god. It looks are you it's so nice to be with Jesus
It's kind of like a kind of like a curse to be stuck with him, right?
But here we are here. We are we're gonna go with him and remember wherever two or three of us are gathering his name, right?
poof
He's there with us. It's his punishment
Fantastic, didn't you know the devil has control here? Don't give me your you guys don't know it, right?
Come on, Satanic congregation flash this thing up here. This is our first thing
I just want I'm gonna translate this and this is for everybody out there a lot of people talking about knowing Greek
Not a lot of people translating it
So he stretched up on that hits up he stretched up
Stressed up to his mouth on high. What he stretched up. He stretched up that compound
That compound oxos called oxos. It's that stuff a doom
It's the oxos of doom
Wow, that's quite a thing. He's put it. It's an antidote
For the king I'm translating
What what's it an antidote for notice it's an antidote for that sacramental bread
That gives you the vision
It's
Thespastic people it gives you the vision
Remember we have an antidote
It's a dope antidote situation if you're not using the antidote you have a problem
All right before omnia can bring us all of this we have to get it
Exactly right to
Resurrect Lady Babylon
Love it
Yes
Let's go back to the text
Yeah, next one, please
Joey here's look at this people. It's in Luke. Kai is Elton a stone
Erks at the egg ball in those balloon dust. What is he doing?
He goes into the temple and he started to throw out
everybody who's selling
Saying to them it's written
My house is the house of prayer
But you
You've made it a spell I own laystone take it down. Oh
What?
What Jesus goes in the temple and starts hurling accusations. This is gangsta chi
Think about what it takes to walk into this place
You must be a freak of nature. How did Jesus? How is he convincing these people?
He's got a crowd of children with him. He's what?
He's got a crowd of children. Don't hang up now. Don't hang up now
I'm gonna show you the kids didn't you know that Jesus walked around with a troupe of children their child prostitutes
I'm gonna show you the text and he brings them into the temple. They're causing ruckus
Ruckus, they are taking over the territory
Taking over the territory
Jesus comes in what's he say?
He says you've made this place you've turned this place
Into
grotto of
lacedace
a grotto of lacedace a
grotto of
People involved in drugs and sex trafficking
Yeah
Wait a minute. Are you sure we yeah, let's keep reading. I'm just gonna show it to you
Gets a little graphic. You're gonna love it. You guys love this stuff dirty dirty people
Luke
1945 and entering into the temple he started throughout these people and he's saying to them it's written
Yes, gonna make this place a spit lion
Gonna make it that grotto next one chewy next one. We've got to roll on we've got to roll on and he was teaching
Right throughout the day in the temple now take it down for a second. We're gonna look at it. But how did Jesus get here?
He got here with a crowd
He got here with a crowd of kitties
Who are these kitties?
What are they doing? Some of them are as young as three and four. Oh
My god, Jesus has a troop of
Children. Yes, I'll show you the Bible. Nobody reads the Bible anymore. How come it's such a shame
You wanted this so much
You wanted your golden book of truth
Here it is
enjoy it
Eat your meal. You deserve it
Let's go
Let's go. So he's teaching all day in the temple and what happens the dudes who are in charge and the people who are
writing stuff down
They're looking for a way to kill him
Right, but here's the problem. Here's the problem
the crowd is
The oh loss they call it which is like a
Disturbance, you think of a crowd as a group of people at a concert
No, thank more of disturbance
and the people who are running the operation in the temple of Jerusalem
Get upset and what is their immediate reaction?
Well, logically they start plotting to kill him
Does that make sense to you if Jesus is the do-gooder that you think he is if he just walks in with the halo
And he's standing. Oh, let's kill that guy
No, he's taken over the territory. He's kicking over the tables
Right and what else is he prohibiting he's prohibiting something you say I didn't see this I'm in in my Bible children
children
lambkins
It's there in your Bible you need to know
You need to know what all we adults know
No
Now are you ready? Let's get ready for it because it's kind of makes you nauseous
Let's go to the next next one, please
but oh
Sounds like somebody. Oh, that's not a
Just knock just a minute, please hang on
You
Case I'll bring the stick of lightning
It's fun in the West that's the way it is
Let's go you roll with it. Did you see that somebody in the back of the falcon?
Anyhow, let's go, please
What's gonna happen here so his students are going around right and I just want you to notice here it says the kids
The kids are doing what he orders
The kids are doing what he orders
Okay
Jesus gives orders. Yes, the
The verb for ordering here is just from Taso
writer Tato
depending on your
dialectical interests
And all that means is station your troops in lines
So soon Tato, so, you know, I'm gonna give you a command to do something and I have authority
I'm a general or I'm a
You know somebody and magistrate somebody with official power
And those that's what the kids follow. They follow him. You have to realize that his followers
follow him as
If he were a commander
If he were a commander, okay
Remember we're talking about lace days
the lace days is
The one who you have to meet force with force these gangs
Don't mess with them don't mess with them. Yeah force
Oh, okay, let's go the next one
This is Matthew 21 10 and going into Jerusalem. He shook the place out, baby
He shook the place out. That's what it says. Everybody's all
What's the big deal? He comes to town. He's got a bunch of the boys from Galilee hanging around him and people
Hosanna Hosanna and you think in your mind. No, this is the poems of
the Sunday and
We're going to have it. Oh and Jesus with it. Oh, no, they weren't it wasn't my grandmother standing there
He had a crowd of kids they're making a stir in the temple he's kicking tables over
Yeah, and what is he doing? He's prohibiting something and I'm about to show you and that's where we're getting into the drugs
Yeah, I can't wait. I don't mean to yet. Please go ahead
Matthew 21 11 and the crowd did what they said this guy's a prophet because people were silent making a big deal
Who's who is this? What there's a crowd friggin parade?
Who is he? He's a prophet. They say he's Jesus. Yeah, and he's from Nazareth
Up in the Galilee. I used to wake up if you don't mind me indulging in our last season
I used to wake up it
About 30 minutes before sunrise
Yeah
And would go out maybe collecting chickens
Right and watch the sunrise and we sat in an area that was kind of elevated
Hills and Jezreel
Just on the northern side of the West Bank and
We would I would look out at Nazareth off in the distance
Yeah, you got the gallery and
It's quite it's quite a beautiful. It's quite a beautiful place. I dodged rockets. They had rockets going over us, too
Right, this stuff going down
Right all the stuff going down there just keeps going down
Yeah, and so it was part part and parcel but I avoided it by riding a horse through the Jezreel Valley
That's what I did
To me that's the place because if you haven't been there if you don't know you don't know
Yeah, anyway, let's get back to the text here. We're back at the park. What's the thing Jesus is prohibiting?
Look what's having the crowd. They say this guy's a prophet. He's Jesus. He's from Galilee next one. Yeah, and
So, yeah, yeah
What did Jesus do?
He kicks out everybody who is selling and those who were buying
Right in the temple in the temple itself
And what does he do he overturns the places they got set up for people to make change
right and
You've seen this, you know this great episode. I'm sure we've got a bunch of pictures
Let me finish it though and what did he do he turned over the seats of those who were selling what?
Toss peris de las and we translate that as
Dove
Dove
And I want you to keep in mind give me the next one, please
I want you to keep in mind that those doves are not always doves to we go to the last go to the last
Boom, yeah, thanks
Appreciate it. Chewie look at these paleo this doves or
Priestesses at Dodona
These are Iraqi or priestesses and if you look down to that fourth line, you see a little clue to the whole puzzle
It's the gray stadium of Amon
It's the Oracle of Amon. Do you know where you find the doves?
You find the doves at the Oracle of Amon
Don't you like that those of you who pause it and go back and I know you do because you try to catch everything
Go and take a look at that and get the context of what's going on there
These are priestesses and known us in his brilliance
Known us in his brilliance. He brings us those priestesses. Oh
We know
We know why?
They've got the tats
What?
They've got the tats. Don't you know these priestesses have the tats
Yeah, you got a problem with that. It's on their limbs
Yeah
Why would you have this group inside a temple? Why would you have doves there for sacrifice?
Do you think they were keeping those pigeons out? Do you think that?
Do you think this is about pigeons people don't get crucified over pigeons?
Yeah, let's go back to the next text I forget where it was
Chewie will get us there. Thank you Chewie and so yeah, and so he threw all these guys out and turned over the places
The seats which is really the what's going on is it's a locality
Where something is exercised in this case your access?
To the priestesses and you say what there's new ways they're doing that in the temple of Jerusalem
Yeah, I got news for you. I'm about to show you the drugs they were using and
May I remind you?
you
Piety let me remind you that Mary
Mother of Jesus Christ
Was herself
well
When she was
lottoed off
to Joseph
Yeah, I know you want to talk about Pantera and all that right I
Don't want to
All I know is a pregnant 12 year old girl who gets fed in the temple
Becomes the mother of the son of God
Yeah
Wow, you didn't know the temple was integral to it did you
If it wasn't Jesus wouldn't have tried to take it back
All right, it's power
It's power. I'm about to let me let me let's keep going. Let's keep going people. It's just this is oh
It burns a little bit doesn't it it's like oh I can feel it you suck that air you smell that
Incense coming
It's just me or my breathing incense out. You know what I mean? That's what we're doing. I saw magic owed to
Mur today that would drive you all wild. It was gorgeous. It was absolutely owed to Mur
Mur you make me feel so
Sexy
Even when I don't want to
That's the ancient owed to Mur at least the first couple of lines
It's in the pgm. I don't care
Kailage, I'll choice gay grab tie
Yeah, it says isn't it written, you know my house of prayer you've turned it into a place for late stone
For the lace states, right? You're gonna cut what you've turned this place into the grotto
The grotto look at that word spay lion
The grotto man, you know what you do at a grotto
You worship pan
You worship pan
Uh-huh
Uh-huh, and you know what pan does
Pan gets my goat
Pan gets my goat. Yes, he does
Look at the sacred symbol and what it means
It's covering up the naughties
So enjoy
Thank you, Chewy
Let's go on to the next text this is fantastic is everybody in the right place and position
Oh, no, it's before that before that boom. Yeah, okay
So this is what it says in
Mark 1116 this is while he's there and the kids are running around everybody's like shut those kids up
Right and yeah, and he's like kicking the money's flying
Right, and he's like this is my place
Right, he just goes all out. He goes all out
Hey, I would do it and his kids are taking order and some of those kids are teenagers late teenagers
You know things could get
Thanks to get rough. We know one of them carries a friggin sword around every time you say the name st. Peter
He's the sword carrying punk of Jesus
Yeah
Yeah, he's gets all swingy and he's not a good trained guy, right? He's not a good. It's not like a good
You know if they're mafia, he wouldn't be like a you know, he
And he wouldn't make it through the ranks because all he did was cut the guy's ear off
Can you imagine that he's just kind of you're supposed to protect me you kind of dudes ear off
Let's keep going. It's lovely. Yep. Let's know that last that last
Verse from the Bible mark 1160. Yeah, and he didn't allow for the situation to come about
That someone could
Bring a scare was
Through the temple
All of your translations all of them
Will translate this scale losses merchandise, but if further
for the chronic satanic
Initiation people you know
What a scale losses it was what was it Jesus's feet?
when they dipped a sponge in it and
Gave Jesus an antidote
To the death drug that he had taken
Death drug you mean he's going and he's going to the grotto
He's going to the grotto. You know what else they called a grotto
They called that place where the kid was being kept in the tomb. He's crying on Jesus is like he ain't dead
This kid is coming back to life
Ha
Right welcome to the world of drugs. What is the scale?
They can't be allowed in the temple. Jesus says we're not going to do that here
No more
No more. What is it bring me up to definition? This is gorgeous people. You're gonna love this and I'll need this one blown up
Fantastic. Oh God look at this. Yeah, so a vessel
But look, it's also an implement, right? It's an implement
Okay, I see farming implements sacred vassals. Uh-oh look about four lines in a druggist's
stores
emphasis on stores
All right a druggist stores
The things that you use within your craft and what do you think the divine?
Son of God healer Christ Christ is a pharmaceutical term. What do you think that Christ is using?
He's got a supply or a store
Right and what does he order them to do?
To take it out take it down to you to take it out
All right
The first thing he does is lay down whose juice gets the service
It's establishing his territory. That's the kind of stuff that'll get you killed
Yeah, and you wonder why why do these people plot against him?
All right
You thought he was going in there. You thought he was going in there being all altruistic and you know
Anti-greed and whatnot. Didn't you?
No, he's setting the stage
you
Translated that scare was along with King James. I can feel you you translated that scare was along with King James is
merchandise, but as
Alice just told you that's only in the plural
So you mean in the singular it is that container of
the thing that's being used for the
whatever the
Building is doing in this case the holy temple where we commune with God and give drugs to little girls and
then lottery them off
To carry the son of God
That's crazy stuff man, I wonder if all that gold Jesus was given had something to do with that
right a wonder a
Wonder do you start an enterprise when you're given a bunch of gold as a trust fund from a bunch of druggies?
We call magi. Do you start a trust fund?
What do you do you come into town and you take over? It's big time. He's playing Jerusalem
Right. There's a lot of people there. It's backwater and a dump compared to Rome
But you know, hey, he's playing it. He's playing it
This is his time goes in town
Goes in town and does this thing Hosanna who's singing Hosanna? I want to show you the kitties
Let's go the next one. Make sure you show me the kitties. Yeah, and
And he said isn't it written? Yeah, you've made my house. Anyway, this is just the laystone back to laystone
Yeah, there we go, and I wanted to go with this to the third bottom line
I just want you to look at the word pinot. Oh, excuse me pinot toys
Hitah Roycy
Those hittai Roy's companions. That's how it's referring to his apostles
Right his companions and we know that those can be
Prostitutes they can be or they can be what you and I would call escort
Something like that something in that range
but notice he uses an action an adjective here pinot toys and
That really means some with discretion
These are companions
These are call boys
Who act with discretion?
Yeah, okay
Thanks, I appreciate that. Um, can we go into just a little bit of I mean I can feel it
We need a little bit of peppy
Thank go to the next one, please. Yeah
Go to the next one. I just want you to see a couple of fragments here because some people were quoting from the Bible
It really got my goat today
Some people were quoting from the Bible big people on YouTube and they had the gumption
To talk about this gets my goat so much to talk about their knowledge of the Greek and all they had to do
All they had to do is say predicate and they lost their audience
Then they're at a point where they can say whatever they want
They can say whatever they want uncontrolled and we
Congregation Satan are up completely unprotected
All right, unless we arm ourselves
With the tools that it takes
This is what omnia will offer
Arming ourselves with the tools that it takes not to be lied to
But to cut to that purest of streams to keep that muse sacred
That's what we're doing
Can you bring up the next I?
Just want to take us do a little fragment here to wash that
Terrible biblical scholar stuff out of my brain
They're awful people. It's deceptive. It's worse than you think people think. Oh well those poor knuckleheads
They just don't have the training. That's true, but
They spread things in order to
Propagate agendas
It's dangerous, man. That's dangerous. Let's look at some fragments here. I want you to tell me is we're gonna play a game
Jesus or Zeus
Jehovah or Heracles whose son and whose father
Okay, are you ready for this? Look at this. This is some
An Iraq an oracle, right?
Sibylane oracle if you'd like and I want you to notice
There is one God a
Monarch
Ineffable
living in the ether
Self-generated unseen
But seeing all
That was
That was take it down. That was a free flow of translation of that
Now tell me who am I talking about?
Now that we're in the temple and you've seen what was there waiting for us and what Jesus is gonna
Turn the place into
Yeah
Yeah, now, you know, we got to kill him
We got to crucify him dude. We got to hit the Romans to do it
Right, it was his thing and he knew it. He kept calling it saying they're gonna come after me. They're gonna get me
All right
So it's a game. He played his game and it went to where it did
ironically
ironically
He's getting the drugs even on the cross
Amazing amazing what those people did here's another fragment. This is that one God right and he rules alone
Right, and I just want you to a second line. Just jump down the second line. Do you see Ponto Krat or there?
Just wait a minute. Are we talking about Jesus and Moses?
wait
Jehovah
Hercules Zeus
Jesus
Right, we're talking about sons of God man. Just hang bare with me. We're talking about sons of God here
This material that I'm reading to you is Orphic
Yeah
Orphic
And although it sounds exactly like Christianity it predates Christianity
By hundreds of years hundreds of years
Yeah, let's go
Let's go to the next one
Here's here's a little fragment. I wanted you to see three lines down there on wood they say what again, right?
Oh my god, who is he? He's the monogamous. We also own a stone coupon
he's the
one
Begotten the one genus
Yeah, the one who is being a stone coupon wait in the corpus
In the colpus?
Yes, look at the parentheses these German scholars came up with in the early 1900s
Walks mystica. Oh, that was Dietrich's. I think it was Dietrich's
Yeah
Yeah
That wasn't current current goes with the Vox Orphica, right? But it's the same thing
It's the same thing
Into your colpus. Can you feel it?
Can you feel that being in your colpus?
You know
They are not saying
What you think they're saying but for those of you who are very faithfully watched through all this through all of this
You you have those ears to hear you're hearing these things so you know what that means
Right that dark harbor. Have you gone there? Have you been there to the dark harbor?
Yeah
Yeah, don't you want to go?
Don't you want to go people? Do you know what we have to offer?
We can take you into this temple. We can put you into a death state
using an erotic drug right and
Then we can bring you out
And when you come out you will not be the same you will have gone to the furthest reaches
You will have gone through the dark star
Yeah, that's the physics
To the actuality of which we are the reflection. That's how they referred to it not me and I know the guys that
at
MIT are saying
Something similar now
Right that we're the reflection through the event horizon
Cool
Cool
Cool, right whatever the physics and how you describe them
This is what I can offer you people who wants
to join
the mystery
We don't care what your philosophy is beforehand
Nope, doesn't matter. We don't care what you studied or haven't studied. We don't care about any of that
All right, all you've got to do is
Walk through the initiation
We'll get you there and you will be born again
You will be born again
The only way we're gonna get there is through her
Because you have to have the water of life. Do you understand you have to have the aqua we tie if you do not
You cannot bring somebody back from the dead
You say well here I am in the temple
Here I am with the doves
Who were administering the oracular rights?
Here I am with them. What do I do now?
What do I do now?
You've got to have access to the water of life
You know and that water of life will bring you back
Bring it'll resurrect you
You know and if you don't you'll die and remember Jesus is always telling people
All right
What's the Great Commission? I'm gonna give you the power. I'm gonna give you the power
To take up those drugs and not to die
Do you know why?
We chase away death
You Christian so-called you weaklings you are not even a fragment of
What your ancestors were
You're just that is what a shame
What a shame
Can you bring back the dead?
Can you raise the dead?
Can you enter that snake?
Can you get that plague and come back?
No, you can't you can't
Your master did he was busy doing it all over the place with his troop of boys
Now
Let's go the text
This is sobering. It's very sobering. Here's a couple of little ditties. I just wanted to show you
I just want to look at line two. I'm the head man. I am God
Amy chaos
Rani Oscosmos Jeff foley the Iranian take it down the Iranian organization
The Iranian
Organization I am the God father and the
Iranian organization is my head
Can you say child trafficking pirate
Yeah
Imagine that a
mystery
built around the creation of
the she
The she who produces who is the medusa
Who produces the water of life that brings us back? I I can't
I had somebody send me a
Response to a request for an interview
That said look it's great stuff, but can you turn it down? I
Can not tone down
The fact that the Bible says Jesus Christ
Was arrested in a public park with a naked boy
At around 4 a.m. Yeah, I
Cannot tone
Down you guys don't want to tone down. Why would I start toning down stuff?
You know what they had a tone up for me
That's what ought to happen. Let's go
Tone up. You know who you are tone up. Yeah, okay. Yeah
What is this the nymphs of the water the fire is a Festus?
The grain is demeanor
Right, and what is the war is Aries? Yeah. Yeah, the great sea that is Poseidon
You know and what is I just wanted to see after detail at the end. What is she? She's it ain't it?
She's what?
She's peace
Take it down
peace be unto you
you
But originally it wasn't your priest who is also
Getting in trouble for things they're doing it's not that peace
It's that peace that you can only get from Aphrodite
Yeah, it's why you marry
Aphrodite and Aries
Because if you didn't nothing would exist
You know
It's a
Ancient ancient religion people. That's what you get when you worship the gods ideas like that
All right, a little bit too scientific, but whatever. Let's go the next one here people would love and it's coming to it
It's coming to a
Conclusion I'm Zeus. Yeah, he's the God of all
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, and what is he got? He's keras days
He's horned
He's horned you mean the hoop see stays is horned. Yeah, that God on the high places is horned
So when you read that in step two isn't don't be surprised don't be surprised
Right, and what is he doing? He's breathing out that
Spearities whistling that spirit into the world in those voices
Those voices that are in the air
Oh
God
Seriously, this is a little bit. You want to see the Holy Spirit, right? That Holy Spirit can whisper in your ear
Without you even without you even being aware of his presence
You know like sending a thought imagine if I had a machine how much who would come to
Omnia if I had a machine there that could send your thoughts into another person's mind
You know now you understand the mania and why it's there
There's a radiation a maddening
Radiation that takes place during the operation of the mystery of on Omnia
That mystery of lawlessness
Yeah
Yeah, it's a purgation people
It's a purgation. Let's go see that. Let's go see the last couple more here
Oh, you know what? We're gonna swear a bunch of O's and I just wanted you to see that Donis was in this whole group
I just wanted to see I on let's keep going. Let's keep going people are getting tired
It's Thanksgiving tomorrow people are gonna have a great time
I bring you the words of Evander
Evander said and who's he? Oh?
He's the dude whose mother was Carmina. She was married to Hermes
You say wait leave it. You say she was married to Hermes
How does that happen?
What'd you think would you think priestesses do?
Why do you think we we pick them the way that we do?
All right, it's the attraction. We're just using the same magic of the universe to against them
Against those invisible powers those authorities. That's all that's all and look Carmina
She attracted Hermes
She attracted Hermes. She drew him down
She drew down that star
Isn't that lovely?
He's the interpreter for everyone
For everyone. That's what it says in the text. You gotta love that hermeneutics love it bring up
Yeah, and what is Evander whose mother is?
Carmina the muse of the Romans
he's setting up a place on the Palatine Hill and
Establishing the Luper Kale you that great festival where we take every 13 to 16 year old
Mail strip him nude give him a whip and make him run through the city in a pack and any time they come across
somebody
whom they desire
They hit him with that strap
They hit him with that strap. Isn't that nice they hit him with that strap the fact that we never do this gets my goat
It does it gets my goat. Let's bring it back
Let's bring it back. Are you kidding me? Yes, yet. No, I'm not
Right who wants to join does anybody want to join?
Okay, everyone's got to be initiated. Who are the who are the?
Forces of the universe who control everything Evander says
Carmina says through Evander, right? Um, by the way, they set up all the laws around them too, right?
This family they're kind of like they they're credited also with bringing the alphabet that the hot
Sorry Romans in all their glory at this time. We're living in huts
Which is not if that makes me sound like it's I'm discriminating against huts
I suppose but if the Romans from the first century could see the Romans then they could look at each other and look at each
other's buildings the old Romans hot dwellers would be
Quite impressed with the achievements that their ancestors were able to do by the way if anybody knows the sacred name of Rome
Now's the time to bring it up. None of you know none of you know nobody let's go
Okay
No, let's go to the eight forces the eight forces or what let's just look what he says here poor who door gain
Fire water earth. Um, what's after that?
Uranon
Uranus is one of those powers Selene is one of those powers the moon Helios the sun is one of those powers
Nookta night is one of those powers. And what's the one I skipped over?
Mitran
Mitran who is Mitra?
Mitra
Who is Mitra?
Kalevus in a surio now the Assyrians at this time this is written
It's not referring geographically to what you and I might say is Assyrian. It's referring to Chaldean
Stop referring to Chaldean blow it up for me
Boom and so the Chaldeans or the Magi they call Aphrodite
Mulita
the
Arabioi the Arabians
call Aphrodite
La Latte
right and
What are the Persians they call her Mitra?
Mitra
Mitra
This is who is
One of the eight powers. Do you understand what they're doing at the?
Oracle of Amon
Okay, let's go. There's a lot of
Clues in that one. Okay, you've indulged me. Let's let's give you exactly your times are the next one
boom and so I'm gonna take you back to revelation and I'm just I want us to know that we're still in the temple
We're still in the temple remember when is the end when the abomination of desolation?
It's a very specific abomination
when that
Functions in the temple when you and I specifically the text says when you and I see
the abomination of desolation in
The temple then we know okay. I'm gonna this is the welcome abomination of desolation
Applause look what happens went out to the angel he said to him give me the give me a little bookie
The little bookie the scrollie scroll. You know what I'm talking about because who are the draw?
I forgot okay people if we're at this party take it down if we're at this party in antiquity and we want drugs
Who's gonna be giving us the drugs?
Right, it's not the guy at the top. You don't go to the guy at the top for the drugs you go to the distributors
Those who carry out the kingdom and who are these
Call them angels
Angeloid it's always the angels getting people high. Do you know why nobody understands the apocalypse or the revelation until
today
Because nobody looks at it like a scientist nobody looks it just says hey
What is all it? What are all these drug references?
You know those wheels that are Greek words the trojas in revelation. Those are not wheels
Those are drugs
It's a pill you can put it in your rectum or you can put it in a cup of wine and
dissolve it either way
Right up or down
They're purging up and down all the time if you have a thing about that. I'm sorry, but it's ancient medicine
Let's go to the text. Bring him the text love it. Yes. Just hit us
Yeah, and so he's goes to this angel. He says give me that little book
Do you know why you can put a scroll in your mouth and antiquity and get high?
Do you know why because the dyes that they're using are high?
Dyes, they're dyes that we have
Formula for we have formula for and
They're dyes that are meant to be used in the case of inducing visions. So it's a compound
Right, it's a compound again. They're using a psychotropic compound. You can lick
The scroll you put it in your mouth
You ever put a scroll in your mouth that was covered with psychotropic dyes. Oh
Wow not seeing the dye with psychotropic. I'm saying they developed a psychotropic compound and then used it as a dye
Yes, of course, if it's got the purple on it
All right, you're in good shape. Look those letters right off the page put it into your mouth and the angels like come here, son
Come here
here
mmm
Break those seals. You know what it means to break a seal it means to put it in your rectum
Where's the whip now we don't have time for the whip go to the go to the next
Quick we've got a hurry. It's already the hour past devil's gonna be very upset
And so he took it from the hand of that drug dealing messenger
Right and he ate it and what happened when it was mouth when it was in his mouth. It was all sweet
Right, but after he ate it when he swallowed it down. What happened? It made his bowels
Move
Some people will say it's made them bitter
Yeah, this is the time the Victorians don't help
Yeah, so look people the drugs they're using they'll get you going
They'll get you going and what John's gonna have all his vision, right? He's gonna have all his vision from what's gonna happen
Angel tell me let me see it here. I'm sitting look almond
You brought me to tonight to this awful party at the temple of Jerusalem. Look what's gonna happen
There's what a third of the people they died
From the plagues
They died and
Where did I from egg to burros from the smoke and took up new from I'm sorry from the fire and from the cop
No from the smoke and from the say you
from the
Grimstone the sulfur do you remember what Jesus had in his mouth when he was all licky licky tonguey tonguey
Spitty spitty in your mouth. Do you remember what he's what it smelled like?
What was his breath like were you there with Jesus when you smelled his breath?
Yes, you were and it smelled like sulfur
Which was a pergative they're using it all the time
Dude is on so much. You don't know
Right, this guy is so stoned
Right, this dude is forever
Permanently altered into somebody who can see
Into the beyond I'm talking. He's a son of God. You're not gonna get anywhere close no matter how much you chase him
Right. Oh
God, do you know when the midwife came in to marry the mother of Jesus? She stuck her two fingers
Inside of her to palpate
Because she's midwife. That's their job and
Burned her hand really bad pulled it out and said no
No
Mary was a virgin
Mary was a virgin
But she was being fed in the temple in the temple, you know, well, you know who the doves are
You know who the doves are
now I
Can give you access to those doves and they will give you the water of life
If you're nice
Fetch me a bucket of water
Gangsta G is back. Let's go. Let's go. Okay. I'm sorry. This is so much fun though
Yeah, okay, and so he saw the horses. Oh god, this is just the horses and the people sitting on them
I just want you to notice that they've got breastplates that are kind of this flame thing and the highest sin, you know and
Sulfuric
Wait, yeah, the armor people. It's different times and what do they do their heads?
They got horses got heads like lion, right? What comes out of their mouth?
Look at that last line second last line poor at the end poor kai capnos kai feon
Fire, you know what comes out of your mouth
You know what comes out of your mouth when you become one of us
Fire like those bronze bulls. Did you think those dragons were dragons? No, they're people
and what comes out of your mouth fire and smoke and
sulfur
Fire and smoke and sulfur
Now, why would you be doing this because we're in a cult baby the fifth angel? He goes into his
He's going off baby. It's a new act with the parties new and I saw a star
fall from
uranos to gain to the ground and
What was given to the star was given to him the place?
key
Key of that
Dungeon of the abyss
Yeah, okay people I
Give you
the key Peter I
Give you the key and why are we doing this because we at Omnia are going to make death
disappear
The greatest magic trick ever
And how are we going to do that?
Contrary to what you might intuitively think
You got to run straight into it
We got to send you into death to deprive you of your fear of it
Yeah, isn't that cool?
Isn't that cool?
Oh god, I love it. Let's go back to the text. Okay a little bit creepy on the creepometer. It was a little bit up there
but look people
And in these days
People will seek after death
And they will not find them
They will find death
They'll really desire
to die
And death will flee from them
Do you want to know when that abomination of desolation enters the temple?
Do you want to know what will happen death will flee?
Yeah
I am the way
I am the life
All right, what does that son of god do are you talking Hercules? Yes. Are you talking jesus? Yes
They
Push off death
They wrestle death
Yeah, wow
Wow, you mean all of that for a paternal god who doesn't recognize the great mother
Right, we all know that she's above everybody else. That's the difference between the orphics and the christianity
The orphics recognized the great mother christianity didn't
Right
And you think well, it's just the way things happened and
You know god there's just a man god because that's the universe we live in that was created 6 000 years ago
And there's this man god and there's no woman god. There's no mother. I mean logically there's a god the father
Right, there's got to be a god the father, but there is no god the mother
absolutely not
Well, the orphic said absolutely and it turns out that she
Is the origin of everything
Even your man god
You mean a father god has a mother?
Yeah, it's basic logic people
What's wrong with you orphism is just physics
Basic logic. Yeah use it. Let's do it. They love this stuff. Let's go. We're almost done. I've helped people way too long
Um, yeah, so a bunch of people died from these three plagues. You know fire. We've seen that one
Let's keep going down. Let's keep going down. Um sting people plagues are sting
Remember that thorn that paul got in the flesh
Right, we're doing that in the temple
Right, we're doing that in the temple
Good and um, they look these people are not going to change their ways man. They're not going to stop
The killing they're not going to stop the drug use. They're not going to stop the pornea
Rive
Okay, all right. If that's the way it's got to go down and what are they what is here?
Here's a drug dealer. What does he have? He has in his hand that little book
Right and he's sitting there open that scroll is rolled out and what does he do?
He takes his foot and he puts it on the right his right foot
right on the
On the sea
And then he takes his own him on foot now. We we say right and left
Um
They said right and the good name
Yeah, the good names
Yeah, because they didn't want to say left
Right in a sinister sort of way
So the good named he put on the land
On the land and you ask yourself what is going on here?
Didn't you know there's ways that you function when you're an angel who is distributing drugs for people to have visions?
Didn't you know that there's a way
to function
Yeah
Yeah, there is
Yeah, and it turns out these magic rites are just they're all over
The book of the apocalypse is nothing but a giant magical operation
Yeah
One foot in the sea one on the land. Who else does that the beast?
That bears her up that brings you lady babelon
Stands partially in the water partially on the earth
Okay for those of you who have ears to hear
And you know water and earth
You know what the physics of that are
Right go get your boy
Go get your boy a necromancer
Yeah, necromancer
Right. Do you want to see the future?
Here we go. Let's do it
Yeah, and having uh next one
Yep
And he shouted right what what's
A lot of these shouts people you got to get used to this if you don't like shouting don't become a bockin
Don't become the savior
Right and he shouted out in this grace voice as if it was a lion
So if he was a lion
Bellowing mukata something like bellowing
Yeah
Bulls do this too by the way
And when he shouted
The seven
Thunders
Spoke
Their voices
The seven thunder okay wait finally it's working
Okay, mine's working
Let everybody know that it just kicked in and mine's working. How do you know?
When your cult drug kicks in in antiquity
When you can hear the seven
Thunderings
The voices
The voices can you hear the voices in the air? We just showed you how they're transmitted
Right
Okay, fantastic. You guys didn't know the apocalypse was all about drugs. You did you did
Let's go put the pedal down. What's that? Chewie's trying to tell me hit something
Do you want me to hit something?
With the whip are people requesting the whip? I've got maybe I've got this thing. I don't know what this is
Tonight we'll have a special
um, okay who bible scholars get with
Bible scholars get over here
Get over here you seminarians sit next to you sit there next to you
And you know what I'm going to give you you're going to tell me about Jesus or I'm going to give you this
Did you hear me? Did you hear me?
Oh, I love that look on your face
I love it
I need something to it still is not as gratifying. You know what I mean? It's not as gratifying even that cheer
Even that bible scholar purity
That leeches out of them
Even the complete disappearance of this with the
Assumption of fear panic
Even that
Even that is pleasing to the human
So, you know in the villa the mysteries where they illustrate the bucket rights you realize
It's people who are not wearing clothing who are being beaten
Yeah
Being beaten
They're winged women
Right, and there's beatings going on
Yeah
Why would you I knew there was a reason I knew there was a reason to the cut cut cutting
I knew there was
Right, it's a purgation
And they're picking it up in antiquity and they're helping people out mentally
They're mentally healing people with these
purgations that induce mania
Yeah
mania
Purge your system. How do you get rid of that depression?
All right, you purge your system
Yeah hit the restart button, baby
Love it
Let's go the next one anybody got any sulfur?
Yeah, and he's about to write down because he knows right what the prophets do
They have visions and they write them down
Look at how many texts do we have to have of this?
They have visions and they write them down, but then the voice
Tells them it says
And it's straight out of uranos
Straight out of uranos and it tells them hey you stop writing
Right don't write down stuff down
You can't you can't give what the voices are giving you
Right. Oh my god seriously. We're almost done and we come to
Revelation 9 20
Yeah
Yeah, yeah, yeah
What's everybody gonna end up doing on the fourth line into the third line henna
May pros cunei susan
Oh, we're gonna end up pros kinesis sing
We're gonna end up bowing to the
Dimonia and to the adela to the demons and to the idols
those images
Those images that's what lady Babylon is gonna bring us
Right and remember the sceos
It's full of the stuff
The stuff that averts death
All right, that's what is in the sponge last one
Yeah, and there's the play of these I wanted you to see tonight
Go ahead and take it down. I wanted you guys to see tonight a really clear portrait
Of how the ancient mystery cult is harnessing
the power of
Drugs
The power of the pharma chaos the power of the magus
The power of the son of god the power of the savior
How we're harnessing
Those things through a sceos
Those baskets those holy baskets they're full of it
They're full of it
Okay, so
Jesus
takes over
For a short period of time and I had I have if you check the I forget about it now to you, but if you check the
The gospel sources you'll find that it's children
It says a couple of times it even has a verse we may have skipped it
But it puts the children in the age in the age of kids who are still being nursed
That's the youngest from the nursed
Up to the napeos the
The imbeciles when did they think that a child was an imbecile and antiquity when they weren't quiet at the
level of mental competence
That's okay. It's you don't worry about it. They weren't at the level of mental competence
yet
so these are preteens right these are preteens
and
These are the people who are surrounding jesus saying hosanna in the highest
And you'll notice that in the text. It's very strange. It's like
Wait what the kids are there shouting
Yeah, says the kids are there shouting. Yeah, maybe that's what let's try it. No
Yeah, yeah, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Very nice. Let me uh, oh, excuse me. I mean very nice chewy
Get out of here
I'm gonna blow you away
Like what's his name that guy right that was an evil spirit. I was it was kicking out of the house
Okay, come on people. I can play around too math you 21 15
Look at this chewy. Nice job
and seeing the the arch priests right seeing
these things and the
Scribes seeing these thaw masia the wondrous things
Which happened and what to spite us and the children
The children pidos can't be anything but a child
the children screaming
in the temple
Saying
Hosanna in the highest
Now, you know why the crowds came out and said what?
wtf man
Who is this dude and all the kids are yelling he's a prophet and you know who his discreet 12 were
You know who his discreet apostles were
They were the boys from galloway
They were the boys from galloway
Jesus was taking over territory. He was breaking bad
And then it ended up costing him it was an expensive maneuver and when he is arrested finally
when justice
hammers down
On top of him when he's arrested. He's arrested in a public park with a naked kid
If somebody out there, please come join omnia and direct
direct
A documentary film
That shows jesus
Being arrested in a public park with a naked boy yelling i'm not a trafficker
Yeah
Yeah
Yeah, you see what jesus was doing. He was taking over the operation
Right and he knew it. He knew he was going to get stuck with it because the romans they didn't deal
with those people well
They were armed and dangerous
right
Right put away put away the fairy tale
Peter's walking around with something. He's ready to stab you with
Yeah
Yeah, and he's also naked on a boat
With a bunch of children at night and when he sees jesus in the morning has to put his clothes on
Yeah
It's that can we just flash up to to finish off can we just flash up that last the very first?
Yep
Please come back to this with me people and realize
No, this is saying
That thing that they put up for jesus to drink from that was the antidote
To that vision inducing sacred communion
Yeah, it was the antidote they may have brought him out of it
They may have brought him out of it
Yeah
as is this
He ended up not getting his legs broken. Anyway, I think that's a pretty good part of the deal
If they had just been able to get to him
Right, how many people had he revived in this process?
right
so
Would have been easy
Would have been easy and you know, what do you think mary was doing?
All right, mary magdalene. I'm talking
All right. Oh god
Behold your mother at least he looked at the little boy that sat on his lap
Remember and came up to his breast john
The one that he loved
Right, at least he gave that little kid
To his virgin mother who strangely enough was only 12 years older than jesus
So when you see jesus on the cross and mary, you might thank their brother and sister
You might
Thank you for coming tonight. It's been my honor
We progress on to friday's
Introduction to omicron and i'm especially looking forward to this
There's gonna be a lot. There's there's gonna be a lot of carnage
Um, but we enjoy that kind of thing and I enjoy you and your company. Thank you very much for coming tonight
Thank you for all of your time. Hail satan
Leary now
On the day that
It came in again. You just turned it down
All the way
Why did you ever change your name all the way
Why did you ever change your name?
You
