I let that liquor drown my days Now I'm taking my last ride
I paid the highest price you can pay And I'm on my way to Potter's Field
Potter's Grave is where I'll be To rest until the end of time
For all eternity
Hello and welcome back to the Lady Babylon Bible Study.
We've got a great cannabis Bible study tonight.
And we're going on the way to the fields of cannabis.
We're going to go through Jesus, the sorcerer.
And we're going to bring ourselves out the other end of this tunnel.
And we're going to stand in the presence of Luke Othea.
Luke Othea, welcome tonight to Lady Babylon.
Excellent. Let's not waste time.
Let's pull up a couple of comments and see.
I take your comments very seriously.
Let's get some answers from these.
Chewie, give us a comment right off the bat here.
This is from Mark Warren's Prasim.
Yeah, Mark, thanks.
Five minutes and 15 seconds felt like an eternity.
Yes, yes.
It took that long for me to mention Jesus was arrested with a naked kid in a public park at 4 a.m.
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
Why don't we go comment number two?
This is our shortest comment ever.
Oh, no.
This isn't the next one is awesome.
Dr. Helen, those Greeks really did know they're sent themselves.
You're making them known to us.
Opening ourselves.
I like that.
It's a lot of knowing of yourself, which is what you see on the temple of Apollo as you walk in.
Right.
Everybody sees it.
We all walk in.
We know ourselves.
At least we're supposed to be excellent.
And this, this tiny, tiny comment that we've got here.
Go ahead.
Oh, who is this from?
Can you blow that up?
Oh, this is from this is the ladies.
Oh, the elect, the elect ladies for Christ.
Otherwise known as the sisterhood of the eternal frustration.
Let's see what happened.
I'm not going to read this all, but I'll read a couple of sentences just to give people a voice.
This is why when Jesus was hanging on the cross, he said, forgive them.
Father is about halfway in.
He said, forgive them.
Father, they know not what they do.
He said that after he was arrested in the public park with the naked boy, right?
And he was screaming.
He was like, oh, father, before God was born on this earth.
Wait a minute.
Oh, I skipped a line.
A little bit confused there.
No, therefore, he was the only person that can accomplish being a sinless sacrifice for us all after he was arrested in a public park with a naked boy at 4am screaming, I am not a child trafficker.
Yes, that's exactly right.
Oh, oh, order of frustration.
Yes, those who seek fine knock and the door will be opened.
Let's cut to the heart.
Let's cut to the heart.
I love it.
By the way, I love it when people quote the Bible to me.
It really, really turns me on because I read it so much.
I read it so much.
Pull up that last.
Pull up that last.
Now I pray you wake up and get saved in Jesus name in Jesus name.
Oh, head sister of the order of frustration.
I appreciate your prayers.
I appreciate the prayers of the evangelicals.
I appreciate the Bible.
The very same Bible that I use to bring the souls of drunkards, the souls of drunkards and prostitute attending thieves to convert them, the very same Bible, the very same Bible.
That's what we're here for.
And that's why you're welcome to be here because we look at the text.
We want to know what was Jesus doing with that naked kid at four in the morning screaming about being a pirate.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Let's jump in.
Let's jump in tonight.
Tonight I want to take you to an article.
People have been discussing cannabis and its use in antiquity.
And you and I have seen, for those who weren't here for the first season, you and I have seen that cannabis was represented by the street name Asterian, the star, right?
The star.
Isn't that beautiful?
And so we're going to look at cannabis because there is an accusation flying around it.
That somebody is getting stoned and that these people who are getting stoned are very famous people.
Like good old Moses in his tent with a smoke thing and we're told that that something's going on.
Let's see.
Okay.
Right.
What do we do though?
On our way back to reality.
Let's make sure and stick with the evidence because everything else is garbage.
Thank you, Harvard and Yale.
Okay.
Go ahead and put up that first.
Number one, hit it.
Lightspeed.
Love it.
1450 BC.
Book of Exodus references holy anointing oil made from cannabis.
And you and I look at each other and we're like, huh?
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
They have a book from 1450 BC.
And this is the book of Exodus.
Wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
That thing is the third century.
What are you talking about?
1450 BC.
There are no books from 1450 BC.
This is part of the fairy tale.
Do you see how a major source can give you facts that aren't real?
How is this possible?
Pull up the next one.
This stuff is too much.
Marijuana proponents.
God proponents.
Seriously.
Don't ever.
People from one satanist to another.
Can I just tell you pull that down for a second?
I need that person up close.
Can I just tell you and I did say marijuana.
So can I just tell you never, never be a proponent of anything but reason.
Yes.
Fantastic.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan on that one.
Right.
You'll defeat him every time with that one.
Love it.
Love it.
I used to love to preach to the sinners.
I loved it.
There's an essence.
A wafting in the air.
It's lovely.
Okay.
Let's get back to that quote on that second.
Yeah.
Marijuana proponents suggest that the recipe, I should be tall in this one.
For the anointing oil passed from God to Moses included cannabis or kind of bossam in Hebrew.
Okay.
This should be easy.
Everybody here knows where I'm going.
Let's look at the Greek text that first appears historically.
Let's look at the Greek text as a Septuagint.
This is easy.
Right.
You want to find cannabis.
You want to find cannabis.
Let's go check.
Let's go check if it's there.
Before you monkeys start jumping up and down for bananas.
Okay.
Just wait.
Just wait.
Next one.
Here it is.
Here are the verses that they quoted.
Caulab ehedus matah.
That's Sulab ehedus matah.
And take that ehedus matah.
What is that ehedus matah?
Those are those elements of pharmacology and antiquity that have to do with the spicy incense that we're creating to have fumigations.
Fumigation.
That's a technical word on the pharmacological side.
Ehedus matah.
Right.
Those are those aromatics.
Aromatics.
It's a technical term, people.
Right.
Oh, I love it.
I love it.
Let's show them.
Get it up there.
I've got the ehedus matah after that.
Just go there.
Yeah.
Spices.
Aromatics.
And look at the sources that he gives at the bottom.
Hippocrates.
Diseases of women.
And diascortes 161.
Pull that down.
And I can tell you for a fact in diascortes.
He has to consider this type of drug because it's a very common, not only medicine, way of administering medicinal, but a very common cult use of drugs.
When you have the altar of incense, the altar of incense, that's a part of your practice.
Right.
How are you going to make the stuff that you burn and inhale?
You can blow it up your nose too.
I can take it from a priestess in my nose.
A little tiny reed.
Insufflation, they call it.
Insufflation.
There's something about insufflation.
When you're being insufflated by a priestess on the island of Cyprus within the temple of Aphrodite, you've made it.
You have made it.
Let's go to the next.
Let's keep burning.
Yeah.
Just don't forget that phthalophonin is fatal to all quadrupeds.
Yeah.
Yeah.
On the application of the root to the genitals.
Why did I throw that in there?
Why did I throw that in there?
Because we are applying drugs.
We are applying drugs.
Did you know the Bible was so sexy?
No, you didn't.
Go back to Moses.
Get us back to that text from the very beginning.
It's up.
Yeah, there we go.
Yeah.
Okay.
So what does he say?
That's, hey, dos matats, these aromatics, right?
And now he's going to list for you what those are.
He gives you, he gives you the recipe.
This is the holy recipe.
It's the holy recipe.
Here it comes.
To anthos smutines.
Yeah.
Well, it's got myrrh in it.
We know that smurna at least, right?
And give us smurna.
It's the first Greek up there.
Yeah.
Look at this.
Look at this.
Sometimes it's written smurna.
Nice.
Nice.
But it's mura.
We know that.
See, it's that Arabian tree.
Right.
Myrrh.
We've got no problem there.
But look, it's used in, if you can go halfway down that paragraph,
and not YouTube, the audience, if you look halfway down that paragraph,
down to the Greek word.
Atmidzon purismurnes.
Yeah.
Hupothumie.
That's what that thing is.
It's hupothumie.
Yeah.
What are those?
Let's go back to the Greek.
Those are fumigations, bro.
There's fumigations.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Good.
That's okay.
Go back to the text.
Excellent.
So we've got some smurna there.
And what else do we have?
It gives a weight of it.
Who cares?
And then so much kinamomon.
You can probably pick that one out.
That's just cinnamon, bro.
It's just cinnamon, bro.
What do you do with your cinnamon?
You get the stuff that's eodus.
You get the stuff that smells awesome.
The good smelling stuff.
You mean there's different times?
Yeah.
You get the really, really good stuff.
That's the reserve, the special.
Go back to that text.
We're reading the Bible.
We're reading the Bible.
What else is in this substance?
By the way, we're going to take this substance.
We're going to cover everything with it.
We're going to cover boys with it.
We're going to cover candlesticks with it.
We're going to cover altars with it.
The whole place is going to stink of this stuff.
So it's important to see what it is that we're using in our drug.
And someone's alleging that we're using cannabis.
Let's keep reading the verse, but so far I don't see it.
Okay.
What else do we have here?
We have half as much, right?
And what?
Calamu.
Oh, Calamu eodus.
Calamus.
Fragrant Calamus.
You know, the kind that is not cannabis.
Okay.
Now, where's the mistake that's written there in English that we didn't notice?
Go back to it.
I know this is flips, but go back to that first, uh, second slide that we had.
Second slide.
Yeah.
Marijuana proponents suggested the recipe for the anointing oil pass from God to Moses,
include cannabis.
So far it's not in there.
Or cannabis in Hebrew.
They point to versions calling for fragrant cane, which they say was mistakenly changed
to the plant Calamus in the King James version of the Bible.
It was mistakenly from the Hebrew that King James was referring to this thing got turned
around 180 degrees because the fairy tale that we are all not believing anymore is that
the Hebrew produced the Greek as a translation.
No, no, no, we know the Greek is the original.
So, um, notice, did you catch there a mistake by King James?
King James, that's 15.
How many, how many centuries later are you going to want to talk about?
From antiquity, let's go back to antiquity and look at what the source says.
There is no cannabis in the anointing oil that is used in Exodus.
It's not there.
And you're going to say, no, it's a misinterpretation.
It's a misinterpretation of the Hebrew.
Okay.
Wait a minute.
Stop yourselves right now.
Right now.
Just stop and ask yourself, could the Greeks have been misinterpreting the Hebrew?
I forgot.
There are so many Hebrew medical authors.
I forgot they write about, no, no, wait, what?
Wait, what?
No, we don't have any Hebrew medical authors.
Oh, well, that's a difficulty if we're talking about drugs.
How about pharmacological work?
No, we have no Hebrew pharmacological works either to consult.
You mean this is the appearance of that word and you don't have a context outside of it?
Let me get this straight.
This at the time that this text that I'm reading to you has been start mesmerizing them with
pictures of symbols, religious symbols, satanic things.
Go ahead.
The Greeks in the third century, second century, first century are building the museum all
across the world, their world at least.
People are doing research and writing entire volumes on plants and on animals, zoology.
You've got philosophers out the backside.
Medicine.
Perophilus.
Incredible physicians.
Aracistratus.
Doing dissections.
Pulling apart the human body to explain the physiology.
You have Alexandrian priests who are talking about drugs and their antidotes.
And which drugs to give for which reasons?
And you have no Hebrew?
You have no Hebrew?
You have no Hebrew sources?
No, you don't.
The medicine and the drugs, just like the language Greek, is what the people are using.
And when this Greek says a very, very specific plant for which the Greeks were highly, highly
trained and diarrheaed at the mouth on these different drugs, you mean it's their mistake
in their magical translation where they stepped in with 72 of these guys all from the tribes
of Israel, different chambers and pow!
Beam.
Beam of information into the brain.
Write out the Greek.
Magic.
Absolute magic.
If you people are willing to buy that, seriously, what's the long and the short?
It's not there, people.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry if you wanted Moses dancing in cannabis oil.
I'm really sorry.
I'm really sorry.
It's not their thing.
It's not their thing.
Whose thing is it?
Why don't we go back to the sources and why don't we look at whose thing it is?
Let's do some dredging up.
And this is, you guys love this.
That's where we're going to do it.
Before we get there, before we dredge up this next source, which is ghostly and godly and wonderful,
before we get there, I want you to watch a little mesmerizing clip that will set the images.
Now, we are not going to tell you what those images are doing and what they are setting.
A long way to go.
A long way to go in a short period of time.
And I've got Gnostic Informant waiting to get on board and to ask questions.
Just maybe talk a little bit about Medea.
So I'm going to push, but I'm going to push steadily.
I want you to throw up, Chewie.
What Chewie is throwing up here is the next installment of what comes in that Exodus chapter.
This is what comes right after it.
Yeah, the chrismahagion.
That holy anointing that is not the anointing of the oil that is used in the consecration of the king.
It's not the oil that's used in the gymnasium either.
It's the oil that gives you an erection.
Yeah, it's the oil that gives you an erection.
Love it.
That's the Christos.
And you say, how dare you?
No, that's not.
No, you don't.
You've never read the text.
Shut up.
Give me the next.
This is from Euripides.
Let me just to school you.
I love it.
Do you like to be schooled?
I kind of like to school.
I love this.
This is from Euripides.
This is Fidra talking, right?
And what is she saying?
She's asking a question to her nurse.
She's saying, what type of drug is this?
A Christ or a potable?
Is this one of those drugs that you take and you rub into your skin?
Or is this one of those drugs that you take in the rectum?
Is this one that a priestess is going to blow up my nose?
Is this one that's going to come out of somebody's body?
And I'm going to swallow in communion within the mystery?
What kind of, what kind is it?
Put the next slide up.
Why is he, why is he, why is she asking Fidra?
Why is Fidra asking, hey, what kind of drug you got?
A Christ or a drinkable?
Why did she say that?
It said Christon, right?
I'm just using the words.
Why did she say that?
Because she wanted a sex drug.
She wanted a sex drug.
Well, it's kind of a sex drug.
She want, yeah, leave it up, this is a text.
She wanted a drug that was a filtra.
It was a filtra that was Thelkteria erotos.
This is a drug that is going to change the way that you think.
And it's going to bend your mind to erotic desire.
And she loved that.
It's going to bend your mind to erotic desire.
And the reason she's Fidra is trying to get one of those drugs
is because she wants to sleep with her stepson.
Because he, the politist, is amazingly hot.
Mostly for the fact that he refuses to have anything to do with women.
Because he is a servant to the Virgin.
That makes sense.
But you see what happens when there's something about that priestly caller
that just calls.
It just calls for some sort of deliverance, you know what I mean?
Those of you who are not part of the order of frustration
probably understand the power of seduction
and why it is so devastating, right?
You can cut that off and put a caller on.
You can marry a Baptist preacher.
Or you can embrace it and build a temple to Aphrodite.
It's up to you, right?
You're purging the people.
The whole purpose of the mystery is to purge the people.
To keep your citizens clean so that you maintain your democracy.
Makes sense, doesn't it?
Makes sense.
Love it.
Let's go to the next line.
I don't want to keep Gnostic too long.
Sitting over there like, go ahead.
No, I want to get these screenshots in.
By the way, we're talking about sex drugs.
Look what's going on here with Medea and Jason, right?
There's a great article written by a professor in Georgia.
She's writing about Medea and the prominence of Medea in Etruscan art
and why it is that she would...
You mean Medea's got a following all the way over in northern Italy?
Yeah, yeah.
Black Sea Babylon, right?
Which is how she's the ruler of Babylon.
Fantastic.
So this is a huge Bacchic empire, right?
We don't call the Medes for any reason, right?
Let's jump...
Oh, I just wanted to show you though.
You see what's going on in that picture with Jason?
Look what she's doing.
Look what she's doing.
The scholar who wrote about this, she's great too.
I wish I could remember her name.
She...
I'll post it or something.
She was talking about what's in this thing, this offering dish
that they're holding up to his mouth and why does he look like he's half conscious
and why is he naked?
They are naked.
The holy virgin in the middle isn't naked, right?
Medea is not naked.
Why is he?
What's going on?
Is there something, something, you know, undercover?
Yeah, let's go to the next.
Hit it.
Yeah.
This is...
Why don't we just look at what the ancients said about cannabis
and what it is and where to find it?
Skuthikon thumiyama ho toyau tenehe dunam.
He says this is a Scythian thumiyama.
Which is...
What is the thumiyama?
That's something that you're burning to offer
or to enter into a state of dialogue with the gods.
Right?
Isn't that nice?
Something that you burn to enter into dialogue with the gods.
That's what the Scythians use it for.
Fantastic.
Let's see.
Keep reading his definition, would you?
Fantastic.
Yeah.
It has this sort of power, he says.
So that...
What does it do?
It exig mazo.
Go down to the next one.
Yep.
What does it do?
It bleeds out.
It exudes.
It exudes.
What is this word from?
Right?
Right?
It's...
Whoops, threw me out.
Put the other...
There's one.
There it is.
There we go.
Exig mazo.
Look at that.
It's exuding.
It's exuding.
What is it?
It's leaking out this moisture.
Leaking out this moisture.
That's very important, right?
Yeah.
Causing to exude.
Can you cause someone to exude something?
Yes, you can.
What does the cannabis do?
It causes you to exude.
What?
Next slide.
Sorry.
She was looking at me like, huh?
Next slide.
Right after the definition that we just had right there.
It causes you to exude this, that which is arousing or inspiring.
Do you get it?
Okay, people.
Take that down.
Or you can leave it up.
Do you get it?
Does everybody get it?
Just take a minute there.
What does the cannabis do?
The cannabis allows you to produce a milk.
What is that milk?
That is a milk of inspiration.
It allows you to take everything that inspires and bring it forward.
Yeah.
Now, some of you are saying who are devotees of hysteria and the throne of Satan.
Some of you are saying, well, that's a very clever description and just a couple of words
for what the cannabis is known for doing.
And it's through the lens of antiquity.
It's through the lens of antiquity.
Those people that were standing at the foot of the cross when Jesus was yelling out,
oh, Father, forgive them for they know not what they do after they arrest me with a naked
boy in a public park.
Right?
He would know.
He would know how would Jesus know this stuff?
Jesus is a drug user.
You didn't know Jesus was a drug user?
Do I have to show you?
More of his depravity.
Do I have to show you?
I do.
You want it, don't you?
This is like a dirty.
This is a dirty show from France.
This is a dirty 1930s French dance.
That's what it is.
Dance with these drugs and these sex acts.
That's the Bible, though.
You have to get used to it.
You have to get used to it.
We've got one.
We've got another one.
Text-wise.
Yeah, give me the next.
Yeah, I just want you to see this before we get there.
Okay, this is an Etruscan pot.
Long story short.
Etruscan pot, central figure is Medea.
Central figure is Medea.
You can see written on the kana that she's carrying.
And how do we know it's a kana?
Because it says kana.
It says it.
Right?
You see it on the right there?
Kana.
In the Etruscan Metiah.
There are about four names from Medea.
And this is one of them.
I think this is the closest to the Greek.
Metiah.
Yep, good.
Fantastic.
And go down to the kana.
According to Helmut Rix, which sounds like an affliction of the glands.
Kana cannot be a local variant of Etruscan kana.
But it's a different word in homonymous.
So, okay, it's got the same sound.
Rix does not agree with the attempt of so-and-so to connect kana with the Greek kana.
Right?
Read.
Read.
Okay.
So you can see the philologist are trying to figure out where the word is coming from.
Right?
Okay.
But supports another hypothesis, the same author, on the meaning of kana as kana-bis.
Right?
The Greek word for cannabis.
Okay.
Rix.
Next one.
Fantastic.
What is the last part of the kana-bis?
Remember that the B-D-I-O-Y.
B-D-I-O-Y.
Remember that these guys bead.
Hear that bead?
B-D-O.
B-D-O.
B-D-O.
Weedale.
Weedale.
There's a diagram somewhere hidden in there, isn't there?
Yes, there is.
Look at the bottom line.
Weedweaw.
Weedweaw.
Weedweaw overseers.
What does that Widrout mean?
It comes down into Latin as Widdeo Wideri.
To see, right?
To see it's the diagram.
You didn't know that six was in there.
Six-six-six.
Again, right?
There it is.
Di-gama-di-gama-di-gama.
Love it.
Don't forget that.
It's the diagram and it's there.
It's part of the word for the kana-bis.
cannabis. It is that element which is giving us sight. There's a reason the dragons who
guard the relics smell like cannabis. There's a reason because it is in all of their incense.
You can't get within a hundred feet of that thing. You can't even, when you're getting
to the island, the sailors, do you know how the sailors find the island? They say that
they can smell it. We're talking about cypress now. You can smell cypress before you can
see it in a boat. You can smell it. Why? Because all of the incense. They don't want you on
that island unless you are high. Yeah. It's a big hot boxing operation. You can't walk
the streets without huffing. Yes. Isn't that wonderful? Make you huff. At least you'll
smell better. You'll be able to take one of those baths that they take. They took that
conna, which the genius scholars say, oh, it's probably the talking about the fibers and
turning them into fabrics from the cannabis. Right, of course. They were stupid. Citians
are making clothing out of it. So, not the citations are making clothing out of it. Okay,
fine. Fine. It's part of their culture. Did you know they were, did you know that they were
doing this? Yeah. Oh my goodness. Give us the next text. We got a, I'm taking so long. Nostics
is going to kill me. Okay. Go to the next one. I just want to take you back to Jesus and I want
you to know that he touched me. This is from Axe. Axe and it's talking about Paul's visit to
Cyprus. We might as well go with Paul. All right. Cause Paul's there and Paul's walking the whole
island. He ends up down there in Paphos. All right. Starts at one side, treks to the other.
It's down there at Paphos. All right. Who do we call Paphia? Paphia. That's Venus, right? That's
Aphrodite. This is Aphrodite's land, Paul. Yes. And what does Paul tell, or what does the text of
Axe tell? It happens to Paul. Go back to the text. Yeah. So they came, they traveled the length of
the island all the way up to Paphos and they found a man, Andratina Magon, a certain magus,
Magus. The Greeks said Magoi. Magoi. What are these Magoi? Well, what else is he? Besides a Magoi,
he's a prophet. He's a false prophet. What else is he? You die on. He's Jewish. And what else is
he? Well, he's got a name they give him. Nomer. And what is it? Bar-i-Essus. Barus-i-Essus. He's
that weighty Jesus. Weighty Jesus. Why do they call him weighty Jesus? Big Jesus. I am Big Jesus.
I'm in Big Jesus. Yeah. Go to the next verse. It's going to explain this title. Okay. I'm going to
give this to you guys tonight. Nobody else. Nobody else. I can promise you. Bart Erman out there.
You haven't done this, Bart. I know you haven't. I know you haven't, right? Whoever else. Harvard.
You guys Princeton. Stand up, people. Stand up. You guys haven't. I'm going to give it just to
you guys tonight from Satanic initiation. I'm going to give it just to you. Are you ready?
Hit me with the next verse after the next. Look at this. Enthistato de autois elumas
homagos. Elimas. That's a name. Elimas de magas, the guy that we were just talking about,
who is called Elimas Bar-Jesus. And people say, where's my whip? And people say,
it's hit me again. Oh, I do that. Bar-Jesus. It's got to be Hebrew. It's got to be the sun.
Son of Jesus. And we'll say Joshua, Jeho-Shua, Jehoshusha. I don't know. Make the stuff up,
people, but your linguistics are terrible. Yeah. Bar-Jesus. Son of Jesus. In a place that has been
speaking Hebrew, speaking Greek for so long that Hebrew has become completely liturgical,
and there's not a trace of Hebrew literature anywhere. Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. Fantastic.
The fairy tale come true, right? Okay, go to the, let's see what Bar-Jesus does and bring
that same verse. Look, what is Elimas de magas? Just follow the phrase,
because his name, right? This is how it's interpreted. They call him Elimas de magas,
because this is how his name, Bar-Jesus, is interpreted, translated, is rendered. Rendered
probably would be the best word for that. Yeah. Jesus de magas, right? That Bar-Jesus is de magas.
It's what he just said. This is how his name is rendered. They call him Bar-Jesus. It means de
magas. It means de magas, because Jesus, everybody knows, is that mystery. He is that power. Yeah.
Jesus ain't his name. Jesus is a title, and by the time Jesus is using Jesus,
that the magi gave him all the drugs and money for, and calling him, calling him,
calling him Jesus, go to Egypt, shave his head, put him in with the priests, and let him teach him,
give him all my frankincense and some more. They'll make him a whole bunch of drugs.
Yeah. The Christ is a pharmacological term. He is the Christed Jesus. Oh, wow. When he's on that
cross, he is so bombed. He is so bombed. All he can do is scream, scream out how thirsty he is,
scream out in the tongue that nobody understands, except for those sorcerers who are like, wait,
what did he say? Right? Okay. Keep going. We're almost done. This is, this is, this is, we're
almost there. Go. Yep. That's okay. That's the one we just finished. Go. Next one. Yeah. Just look
at what a magoan is, right? This is a trickster or a farmacate, somebody who really understands
drugs, somebody who's bringing saba, right? Somebody that theologian, by theologian,
think more of a pre-socratic philosopher, theologian, that Orphic type, or priests, he says, right?
This is the Persians use it for that way anyway, just for their priests. Go down.
What do we have here? I wanted to finish up tonight with just, and I'm sorry I'm going so long,
but I wanted to finish up with a fragment just because Pete, look, people are sitting here,
leave that up. People are sitting here and they're saying, wait a minute. This is, you just told us
a way to, a way to read or what the Bible says and acts that nobody else has said. Yes, right?
Because we're lifting the text directly, not presenting to you an argument. I have sources
that classicists have that you're not going to find that seminarians don't know, right? That's
the whole point. Classical philology is guarding those texts. I have one that I'll just show you.
I'll just hold it up right here. Look, this is one volume of the oxyrhynchus papyri.
What are the oxyrhynchus papyri? They're papyri that were found in a garbage dump in Egypt,
in a place called oxyrhynchus, in late 1800s, and they were looted by the scholar thieves that,
and this stuff was taken back to Oxford and disseminated for people to put in museums
and stuff like that, right? Oh, fantastic, fantastic. So guess what? Right now they're up to 80-something,
volume 80-something. The one that I'm reading to you today from is volume 45,
45, published in like 1977. No translation, just fragments. And the one that I want to
show you today that has the spur, my grandfather's spur on it, is the, is an unknown. Some people
think it could possibly be Pindar, some people think it could be, they're always guessing though,
they don't know, there's no attributed author. But I want you to notice some of the words that are there.
At the very top, I want you to see, especially my Greek students, I want you to see Lukothea.
Do you see Lukothea there? Lukothea in that first line. And I'm just gonna, I'm just gonna start
translating it to you. The best I can, it's got holes in it. So I can just give you a vague,
a vague idea of where it is. Oh, and it's a Dorian dialect. So heavy on the vowel shift,
and we're gonna be substituting letters. Okay, what do you mean? And we're gonna see that
digama frequently as well, by the way. Yeah, Lukothea, Eratan Timinos. Welcome to the Timinos,
the holy sacred grove of Lukothea. Remember that savior, that sotera that we had in the clip,
she is called the savior repeatedly. This is 900 years before Jesus is ever calling himself anything.
We are calling Lukothea the savior. She is the nurse of Bacchus. She is the nurse,
the transformed nurse of Bacchus. Yeah, love it. And in this fragment, I'm just gonna read it to you.
Yeah, where do we end up? We end up with the pomegranate, with this juicy, sweet pomegranate.
And you say, what? I got a pomegranate? Okay, I got a pomegranate. What else do I have? I got
some rivers. You mean, I'm in this holy grove of Eve, excuse me, of the white goddess or the bright
goddess? Lukothea. That s a translation. That lelk root can be white, but it s more like shining,
brilliant. The brilliant goddess, the shining goddess. What do we have? We got a pomegranate
with her. We have a pomegranate. What are we waiting for? We re waiting next to those rivers.
We re waiting next to those rivers with Eve. And what are we doing with Eve? We re gonna enter
into that gammon, that sacred gammon, that thing which all mortals suffer, both men and women,
it says. Yes. And what are we gonna do? We re gonna have the tike. We re gonna be able to enter
into the chance reality of union with the Korah. Union with the Korah. Wait a minute, are we in
Elucis? Where is this the, have we turned into Balkans? Yeah. We never left. Same Saturnian or
Satanic cult. And what I just read to you was a fragment that none of your, none of your biblical
studying friends or the sisterhood of the traveling, traveling frustration, none of them
will have access to this because they really don t care what the text says. Or one of them
would answer my question. What was Jesus doing with a naked boy in a public park at 4 a.m.,
screaming to the authorities that he was not a child, trafficker.
What s he doing? Yeah, I would love it. Great order of the sister of frustration. Please,
please sisterhood, give me an answer to that. Let s finish up. We ve got one more I want. Yeah.
Oh, wait here. Actually, go up there. Go up there. Yeah, this is the pomegranate. And I just want
you to notice that if you look down at definition number two, that pomegranate is the same as
Numphia. And you want to say, well, what is the Numphia? That is the Madonna.
Madonna, yellow water lily, and the name of Ariadne.
Yeah. What? Can you feel the cult? Can you feel the mandrake? Is it finally kicking in?
You know what I mean? Oh my God, it s gorgeous. Lastly, let s end on this, then I m gonna
go to Gnostic and form it real quick. What is a muse? What is a muse?
This is Hesechius. We listen to them for data about their own language. Eroticae.
Eroticae what? Oidae. Yeah. Oh, I did the adic. Sorry. Oidae. Yeah. This is the a oidae song.
We also get ep oidae from this, that epotic or magic song, right? We don t have a word for this
in English. Take a song, the concept of singing, and wet it to the performance of magic that alters
the universe around you. And you get an epode. You get an epode and you begin to understand what
a muse is. So what are the muses? They re the erotic epode. Keep going. What else are they?
Some people say they re inigmata. Yeah, inigmata. We get enigma from that. This is a dark riddle,
a dark puzzle to be figured out. Isn t that nice? The muses are a dark riddle. And what
else are they? Technos, right? They re skilled. They have the skills. The muses have the skills.
So if you want to ask me, what is a muse? There s you use the classical definition,
the ancient definition, say the muse is she who is the erotic singer,
who sings with skill the enigma of existence. Oh, isn t that sexy? That s sexy, right?
And what do we know that Sappho calls them, thanks to the fragment we discovered in 2005,
it was released in 2005. What do we know they call those muses?
They call them io colpoi. Those who have that ios, that burning purple poison, that violet poison,
in the groin, the purple medicine groined singers of erotic desire.
Oh, you mean that made the universe? Yeah, that made the universe. Isn t it nice?
Yeah, love Aphrodite. Love that stuff. Welcome to Cyprus. Welcome to Cyprus, bar Jesus.
Right? There she is. There s the great queen. Welcome. Let s get Gnostic and forward on here
for some last, some last minute. I m sorry, Gnostic, for taking so long. How are you doing?
Never rushed. That was good. I was enjoying the whole time. Good stuff.
Good. Good. What do you have in your brain, since you re such a powerful artist,
what do you have in your brain with the Medea project? I know you re working on it.
Yeah, without Medea. I was thinking about what you were just saying just now,
and you mentioned this Bacchic empire that existed at some point. When we look at the sources,
we put two and two together. What Diodorus is saying, what Herodotus is saying, what Homer is
saying, you get this picture of some sort of cultural empire that existed, stretching from
beyond Babylon Eastern and all the way to, you know, past where the Truscans are at. You got
in the Truscans, like the Vosses you were showing, you have Medea, Metiah in the Truscans,
and then you have the Medes claiming to call themselves Medes based on Medea.
So there's some sort of cultural empire existing somewhere at the end of the Bronze Age,
and Diodorus relates that it comes from this pharaoh who, you know, goes to war against the
Syrians, and he leaves this, he plans this kingdom up in the north in Colchis, and then the Egyptians
pull out, but that kingdom stays, and I'm thinking to myself, hmm, that's interesting,
because Medea is so culturally important to all these places. Why? And then I'm looking at the
first chapter, well it's chapter two, actually, book one of Herodotus' histories, chapter two
to chapter four. The first thing he writes about is the the Trojan War. He's talking about how
Helos came to be. Of course, he's going to talk about the Trojan War, but I didn't realize this
until until last night. Before Helen gets captured, well actually the question is,
why did Helen get captured? Well because she was so beautiful, not really. According to Herodotus,
people say it was a retaliation of the Helans going to Colchis and capturing Medea first,
and they captured Medea, brought her to Argos, and then in retaliation the Trojans captured Helen.
So like, whoa, that changes the whole story. Medea is the cause of the Trojan War now,
and that's like the beginning of it. You can't talk about Western civilization without the
Trojan War being in the beginning. That's our genesis right there, and so Medea is so important
to everything. Like I mentioned, the Etruscans are putting her up as like a goddess almost,
and then I found this out too, talking about Bacchic Empire, the grapevine, and I have a screen
ready to share if you want to pop that up real quick. It's just a Wikipedia article for grape,
right? But grapes are imported and planted. They didn't grow wild. They only grew wild
in one place, and guess where that is? Georgia. So the grapevine grows wild where Medea's kingdom
is. So we're talking about this Bacchic Empire. Grapes are grown, grapes are native to this place,
which means Bacchus is native to this place. You have Bacchus and Medea both coming from this area,
and the marriage, and then we get this marriage of Bacchus and Ariadne. You were just talking
about Ariadne as the Madonna. Well, what is that? That sounds like the formulation of Caikian mix,
the grape and the Madonna. So it's just fascinating when you put it all together like that.
Yeah, isn't it? And the very fact that Medea could be that Bacchic voice, it shouldn't surprise us.
The very fact that she's formulating Bacchic practice, it shouldn't surprise us that in order to
enter into that ecstasy, of course, the wine has to be full of something. It has to have that essence
of the God. And it only makes sense that this sorceress who knows so much about medicine and
drugs, that she's the one who's kind of pushing this, why? I gotta ask you this, Neil, and this
always bothers me. Why do we overlook that they were abducting her for a reason? You don't
sail halfway across the world and pick up a strange person and steal them for no reason.
Yeah, you don't waste resources. You don't throw your navy out there and risk them getting killed,
going to a foreign land just to cash your random princess. No, no, no. She was valuable.
She has knowledge. She has resources. She is famous. Think about Cleopatra's fame
when they capture Cleopatra and they brought her back to Rome and they were going to kill her.
And all the Roman citizens were like, no, no, don't kill her. We will revolt. If you kill Cleopatra,
we're going to revolt. All of you will be dead. They're like, oh, shit, we can't kill this woman.
Let her go. Think about that, but I would say times 10 with Medea. Because Cleopatra,
yeah, she's very prominent and she has kingdoms, even Syria and I think southern Turkey, she had
one of her sons planted over there. But Medea's influence goes the entire known world at the
time. The entire Bronze Age seems to be connected to Medea in some way. So I would say Medea is
like Cleopatra times 10. And that's another thing you mentioned, the knowledge of the drugs.
That's probably more valuable than gold. Well, and remember that drug knowledge is
an arc of evolution within the warfare as well. She harnesses the power, the explosive power,
petroleum. Yeah. And she ends up a lot of petroleum in Georgia, making the fire of Uranus,
right? And the Greeks take this and turn it into a very formidable naval weapon.
Right. And they're very unwilling to talk about what is the secret. We know that the
suitor tells us that was Medea's fire, that Greek naval weapon is originally Medea's fire.
And she's making things explode. She makes a princess burst into flames in public. Do you know
they heard about that all over the world? They heard about that all over the world, that vase
that's in Atreuria. That's in Chevetary. It was the Corinthians who colonized Chevetary.
And so they, of course, brought with them the disaster that happened when their king and their
king's daughter got emulated. And the suitor even says that when the Greeks, when the,
it was the Byzantines at the time, when the Byzantines were trying to find a way to defend
themselves against these invaders, they went to the ancient text and found some sort of fire
processed. And like you mentioned, they let you know this is an ancient thing. This isn't
like a new thing. They were going back to the ancient sources to find this stuff.
So, and like, for someone to get captured, it started an entire war that echoes all the way
across centuries. And it becomes the central foundation story of an entire,
of an entire world, basically. Something's going on there. Something is important about that.
Yeah. And may the classicists hear our voice today, because we don't think that
Bacchic worship is anything but Greek, right? And you say, well, it's very oriental. It's very
strange. Yeah. It was founded by a woman who lived up to the east of where the Greeks did. You
got that much, right? Orientalizing. Yeah. The mysteries come out of there and out of
Thrace, right? Work their way down. So, yeah, it's fantastic. I love the people don't reckon the
influence that Medea had upon the world. They don't understand. All of that mystery is coming
from one woman. Why do you think the Christians take that figure and say, this is the one that
Jezu, when he comes down and his golden bra is going to slaughter before he slaughters the rest of us
and the blood is up to his horses, right? Lovely. You want to know why I think about that? I'm so
glad you brought that up, because it's sort of a, it's an inverse of the Argonautica where the
Jason, there's, you have two Jason's now, Jesus, Jason, and we know it's the same name. One of
them is Greek, one of them is Semitic, whatever you want, like different, it's the same name. It's
Jason. It comes from, and so the Jason in the Argonautica goes to Medea with the golden fleece
and the Jesus, and he gets saved by Medea. The other story is the Jason with the golden,
whatever, the golden, wearing the golden robe, going to slaughter her, and now she's a witch,
now she's evil, now it's Lady Babylon. So it's like a flipping of the poles happening,
they're reversing everything, and that's why you get Kelsus, that's why you get Kelsus saying that
this is a degradation of the of the mysteries, is what he calls Christianity. And I think it's
why Christianity is so brutally hard on drug use, why they crack down, and they start by telling
their own people, it's one of the oldest Christian references we've got, and it says you've got to
take the botane out of the communion, you can't have any drugs in the communion, we've got to
just go for the straight wine. And they use that to break the Roman world's mystery cults,
just the drugs themselves. And why is that fear of reconstructing the right there? Because they
know it can be done, they know that they can enter into this mystery yet again.
Yeah, when people's minds are being expanded by these drugs, all of a sudden you're opening yourself
up to people that are going to revolt against you because it's easier to keep people enslaved
mentally and emotionally if everybody's sober and everybody believes in the same thing.
So and that's that that was the goal and that and you have to admit they were successful at it
for like 1000 years. All of Europe and Italy and Greece was basically just following Christianity
for 1000 years. Nobody, like, nobody, there was nothing else going on unless you were Jewish or
Muslim. But that's it. Well, there are a lot of wars. Yeah, and they all hated each other if they
weren't, if you weren't, if you weren't Christian, then you were hated. So yeah, there wasn't any,
I've always, I've always wanted to ask, let's let's anger or some of our viewers now and say,
why wasn't there a pox catholica? There's a pox romana where they brought the Romans brought
civilization and people were saying, yeah, I want to become vote our people in to become, you know,
Romans and they're spreading civilization and things are going great. Right. So we declare
this is a pox romana. This is a great golden age. Why don't we have a pox catholica? Why don't we have
the Christian church ever achieving a pox? There's nothing like that. In fact, if you're going to,
if I was to argue, if I had to pick, it would be when they start going back to the Greek mythology,
the Renaissance, when they start painting Venus again, that's when certain things start to get
better. Isn't that weird? When things start to get better is when they start going back to the
ancient myths again, start painting Venus and Bacchus and putting them up on in nice buildings
with nice, when they start getting into the art again, all of a sudden the world starts to change,
you get better. Isn't that something? What does that tell you about the world? What does that tell
you? It tells you a lot. And eventually that Renaissance gives birth to democracy coming back
to the terrestrial plane. Democracy coming back. And now we have the democracy, right? And now we're
fighting to keep it, right? We're fighting to keep it. What if, I'm just gonna ask you this, what if
it is not true that Christianity is the source of democracy? What if it's true instead that
Christianity was what killed democracy? Absolutely. It brought back the monarchy, you bring back the
monarchy, something that hasn't been seen since the 30 tyrants were slayed by the Athenians when
they replaced it with a 500-head Senate. They called it the Bule. That was the end of tyranny
for a long time after that. And it wasn't until Christianity comes along where they
replaced all that with another monarchy, you know what I mean? Like, I'll say this, the Roman
imperial way was sort of led into that, don't get me wrong, but Christianity, the one God and one
pope and one emperor, that's that mentality, that patriarchal mentality. That's dark. That's a dark
world that everybody has to play a part. You play your role. You have to, if you're a man, you have
to do this. If you're a woman, you have to do this. And women stay home and do that. And men, you go
do this. That's a dark world. That's like a, like, it's like, that's like the, what do you think of
like the worst communistic, whatever, like the worst, like, you know, Nazi Germany, that's even
worse than that. Like you mentioned, when we start, when people started to wake up again, when
people started to look back at the ancient myths of Venus and Bacchus and started getting the art
and the Renaissance and the Enlightenment, all of a sudden democracy comes back, all of a sudden the
world gets better. What is that? I mean, like, it's really that simple. I really, you can look at
history that way. I do. Yeah. Yeah, no. And that's Thomas, you and me and Thomas Jefferson, baby.
Thomas Payne, too. Let's, let's all Thomas Payne. You want to invite him? Let's have a,
let's have a lunch. You and me, promise me this, promise me this, Neil. After death, you and me,
Payne and Jefferson, one lunch, couple bottles of wine, and just the best debate conversation.
And I'm, you and I are going to sit there and be, you know, amazed. But it, you know, I think they
wouldn't be, I think they wouldn't be too upset if we, if we did that, you know what I mean? I mean,
everybody's going to be, there's going to be a whole bunch of people with 70 virgins and there's
going to be people, right? No, no, no. Yeah. Let's go sit around. Let's find Sappho. We got to bring
Sappho though. Promise me we'll bring Sappho. Just imagine, just imagine being on the island of Lesbos
and you got Sappho there and she's playing her, her liar. She's telling the stories of Venus.
She's telling the stories of Bacchus and, and, and Medea too. Like just imagine that site.
You know, imagine that, that world. Why would you want to eradicate that from society and, and put
them, put women as nuns and, you know, homemakers and like, why would you want to eradicate that from
society? I don't, it's crazy. It is. Notice that you have to, you have to eradicate Venus so you
don't get that Taliban. You don't get that orthodoxy. You don't get that fundamentalism.
Venus becomes loose, the symbol of Lucifer. Yeah. Isn't that something? What is, I mean, like,
it's, it's so backwards. Yeah. Where the love and beauty and fertility, those, those things that
are become evil and wicked and gross and abominations, those are the central things of life.
Those are what we were, that's what, that's what we're like, it's coded in our DNA to do.
Like, there's nothing else to live for besides love and fertility. Why would you want to make that
as the source of all evil? You know? Why would you want to subject one gender to the other? Why
would you want to say women, obey your husband as the church should be? That's exactly what Paul
Romans, women obey your husbands and then women should not speak in churches either.
That's Paul, man. He was, he was harsh. Yeah. Don't educate him either, right? If they're not
getting educated, they can't be speaking anyway. So you know what I mean? Yeah. What is that, Neil?
Last question. You tell me, is that an imbalance in the universe when you try to construct a
religion and a God and a mystery around misogyny, around taking one group of people and just
subjugating them? You know, whether it be according to their color or their gender, whatever.
Is that just unnatural and just drives us towards self-destruction? That's what I'm
going to say. What do you say? Yeah, yes, but the reason why those types of
worlds come about is because they, they work for, for a small group of people, a priestly class,
for example, in this situation, becomes extremely powerful. And I'll just like throw an example
out there. Like when Rome was being, when all of Italy was being sacked by the French in the 16th
century and Rome, like all of Italy is being subdued by France. Italy became part of France.
But Rome, the, the Vatican, they lived right through it. They were spared because that's
the Holy See. You can't touch the Holy See. You, now you, politically, you could control the Holy
See and, but you're not going to kill them. They're going to stay billionaires. They're
going to stay in their mansions. You're going to conquer everything around them. All the poor
people that live around them are all dead, but the Holy See lives through everything. They're
still around today. Like there's, they, they created something and put themselves above
civilization. So it's very, very hard to get rid of something like that once it starts. Very hard.
I think the right woman, I think the right woman could do it. And I think bringing back Lady Babylon,
bringing back that history, I think that's the only way to forge forward is to say,
what was it? I know it sounds stupid, Neil, but what was it in the Bronze Age that was such,
created such a renaissance? It created such a movement forward in knowledge and research
and in technological development. What was it that caused that push forward? Could it be
because of a group? Could it be because of an individual? We know that thought revolutions,
that industrial revolutions are always brought about by a group or an individual, right? It's
scientists who are individuals who bring up the new Galileo. Oh my God. How did you, well, he's
Copernicus and whatnot, but it takes those individuals to push forward and history is proof
of that. We wouldn't have, we wouldn't have those Romans without Julius Caesar, the great
child of Aphrodite. We wouldn't have those things. Right. See how even someone like Caesar,
who's a conqueror, still has to say, I'm the son of Venus. You have to have that. And you think of
Athens with Athena in the Parthenon, the giant statue of golden. And what's that white material
that they use? Ivory. Ivory and gold, Athena sitting there. The giant, and everybody that
lives in Athens knows about this. They can see it. They can go and they can give off rent.
They all have that image that they represent. And people are, both fast, all the fastest
of society are represented in some way. They all have a God that they can look up to and relate to.
Rather than, instead of just having one fatherly God that only men can really say, oh, I'm like
this God. This God loves me because I'm like that God. But those people who don't look like this God,
they don't have representation. So they feel like they're less than. But in the Greek world,
in the Greco-Roman world, or even in the Indian, oh, going in the East, in the Indian Hindu pantheons,
you have gods that represent everybody. Everybody has something to look up to and
has some sort of hero to look up to. That makes your society drive forward.
And the drugs too, because you expand people's minds. When you have that festival,
that's another thing. We can't forget about this. When you go to that festival every month,
and maybe you had a terrible month. You lost all your money. Maybe some robbers came through and
stole all your chickens and your goats and your shuttle. But you go to that festival.
That's, you know, it's going to come every month. It's another festival, whether it's the festival
of Demeter or the festival of the Bacchanalia. Every month, you have a new festival to look
forward to. And you're going to go there and you're going to drink the Kaikyan. And you're
going to have a good time. You're going to expand your mind. You're going to forget about it. And
you're going to reset yourself. That part of society, we still need to bring back.
I think that people still, people have that option now, but I don't, I think it should be like
normalized. People go to festivals, music festivals that come back and change their lives. Oh my
God, I went to this music festival and I'll never forget it. It changed my life forever.
That type of mental, that type of spiritual awakening is a huge thing. And everybody in
Athens experienced that. All right. All right. Last question. I'm going to leave it to you, Neil.
Neil, you're working on a video about Medea. Just lead us out with that.
Yeah, that's coming out in the next two days, one or two days. Medea, narrated by you, edited by
me with music and visuals. We got some good visuals of not only ancient artworks that we
put together, but also some use of AI stuff. Not like in a corny way, like with people with
like three hands and four eyes, but like we really took our time and picked out the best ones,
the ones that really, that really, they really portrayed the essence of Medea. You know what
I mean? And we're going to have this AI, contrary to what people who are anti-AI,
contrary to the direction they're going, Neil, we're going to bring her forward.
Want to be cool? Look, if they can replace writers and they can replace certain artists,
then they can replace the Pope. You know what I mean? All right. Thanks for coming, Neil.
Everybody out there, thank you for attending. I'm sorry it takes so long, but it was a hell
of a lot of fun. How's it going, guys? How's it?
