Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r
Yn faint ysgrif iawn hynnen, dyma hwn yn rhoi'n beansygu.
Wrth gynllun gwneud hynny, roeddwn i'n trwy Matheus i ring stored therewyr, dyma'r because responding and
elethio Season 18 is Og, mae'n gwneud am le additions, mae'n gallu cón unig mwynthaloliaeth pan eu codi yn gyfŷn,
yn ymdod. Rwy'n ystod yw'n cyd-dweud yw'n ymweld i'r ffrari, yng Nghymru yng Nghymru yw Bruno.
Felly, etore, rydyn ni'n gweithio, rydyn ni'n gweithio, ymdud ymdud y Deyw yn ymdweud.
Yn gweithio gyd-dweud, rydyn ni'n gweithio gyd-dweud yn ymdud ymdud ymdud ymdud ymdud ymdud,
rydyn ni ddim yn ymdud ymdud ymdud ymdud ymdud ymdud i ddim yn ymdud ymdud ymdud.
Rydyn ni i gyd-dweud yn ymdud i ddigon, mwy o ddyn nhw. Rydyn ni i gyd-dweud am ystod y bybl,
ond ymdud nhw'n ymdud i ddigon, dgymau y bybl. Felly, rydyn ni i ddigon i ddigon i ddigon,
Hwtos garr e gapes yn hotheos ton cosmon, hoste ton hwion ton monogien e edw cien, hen a pas hopi steon eis auton me apol eithae al eich ddewen aionion.
Mataeus, ydych chi'n gweithio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio'r ddweudio.
Rwy'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio.
Rwy'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n gweithio'n g
Pwynt y Cysyllt Cysylltiadau a chyfnod beth sevaethau a thebethau a b addai wneud yn dod yn awrs y fain?
Stei'n gweithio. emoc i awarded prosod i'r will i allu setting现 him.
ysgi nid cy willen beth wedi swydd.
mynd i go saith, сделать amser i ddeни,
fyddwn i ddiwedd gael y content of yno adael yуйd o ysty mater.
A wnaeth o, Rhun ap Ibarthau,
Siligion Local Bucked,
Suternianillon Thank you
Fath hynny'r fally mae oedd ymwbr hwn yn ro bob flynyddiant yn basket膽go.
O flynyddiant maen nhw, o gamces a buryry porallol.
Mewn gwneud rydyn ni, scor.
Ynenn i'r dod a heddech chi'n edrych, dysguau bod Yn Bydd Rhaid Cynunivaidd E prawd Yna'r
o'r bach o'r roi'r Rochies. Felly, mae'n oedol yn gwneud.
Rwy'n ddweud. Rwy'n ddweud. Rwy'n ddweud. Rwy'n ddweud.
Rwy'n ddweud, ddweud, ddweud, ddweud, ddweud.
Chwyi, hynny'n ystod y ffyrdd yma'r hyn o Aethina,
ond rwy'n ddweud o'r Manol Cynes.
Rwy'n ddweud i'n ddweud.
Rwy'n ddweud i'n ddweud.
Maels, Munol Cynes, megalw rushed,
ac gwonaeth simne.
Mae'n widdg Spielerai'n dy dod rwy'n'n ddweud.
Ddylch morto rydym ni'n gwneud.
Rwy'n ddweud a gyda dyllai North Mw yn y Prif.
Maewn Cynes aion.
Bydd yn ach상 yn gwympio son窫d o gen bod Maron,
mae'n ffynu oan tra Magnifeyd.
Ddy ogni'n ddweud y butt ymlaen.
The only born, right? Palace, the only born.
Who's palace? This is Athena. We are invoking.
Tonight, we're in Attica. Tonight we are in the
Deam where we worship the naked Virgin and in this
Deam we call her palace and that word palace.
People are so terrible with this word.
It's the origin of it. It's beautiful.
The palace is that Korah is that pre developed Korah
who carries the spear, who carries the spear,
that pre adolescent Korah that carries a spear.
And you say, wait a minute, who is this that you're talking about?
This is the girl whom we release from the head of Zeus.
We take the axe of Hephaestus and we slice open Jehovah's head.
And from Jehovah's head springs the new ruler who possesses all that belongs to Jehovah.
This is her and she is the palace.
The Romans absorb the concept with Pilex.
And it's the image of the girl who is not yet marriageable and how do they,
she's not an aphib yet, right? She's not marriageable.
So she's pre marital. She's not developed hence the Virgin
and why we protect her because she is not yet marriageable.
She is in that state now. Wait a minute.
She's burst from the head of Zeus and when she does,
she makes both mortals and immortals quake, shake.
The image is a shaking.
The images of what you feel when you get hit by the wave of sound
that hits you when thunder is there.
Thunderstruck. This is thunderstruck.
That fear that paralyzes you in place.
That is what the palace brings to you.
And you say, how can this palace, this monogynes, this child of God,
how can this child of God, which was originally a daughter of God,
how can this daughter bring complete quaking and shaking in us?
She is the one who emerges. She is the one who emerges from the head.
Yes, she is that daughter of Metis.
She is that daughter of that reasoning.
She is the daughter of that intellect.
Yes, and she comes into the world in that form.
And you say, this is not scary.
This is not scary to me. I don't see.
Remember this daughter, this 12 year old is actually six foot tall
and carries a spear and exercises naked.
We'll see this. We'll see this.
And how can she do that?
Remember where you are. Remember where you are.
You are in a song.
You are in a song that is being sung during a mystery performance.
The images that you are receiving, you are receiving from the throne.
You are seated upon the throne of Saturn.
Receiving these images.
How is it scary?
Remember she's six foot one because we've been giving her hormones
ever since she was seven.
Seven is the starting age.
Pallas means priestess of Athena who carries the spear.
Priestess of Athena who carries the spear.
And she has been on hormones through the venoms that we're giving her
since she was seven years old.
And now she's 12, 13 years old on the cusp of what would naturally be
for those of us who are not Medusai.
Those of us who are not under the regimen,
we would start entering at 12, 13 years old.
14 were finished and we're getting married.
We've cycled normally for a year.
Everything's good.
We're getting married.
She's in that pre-stage but we've been giving her the drugs
that are turning her into something.
It causes her skin to become rough or harsh.
They call it scaly in Greek, scaly.
She loses sight during the day because of the brightness.
She's known to inhabit the caves.
We call her the half virgin, half viper or the echidna.
Yes, the echidna.
So let's look some more at the hymns.
Let's look some more as she emerges from the artist's hands.
This is like creation.
It's gorgeous.
Okay, the second, the first line again please from Pallas.
Yes, Pallas Monogines.
Chew is that only begotten daughter of God.
Yes, and by the way, there's another word that comes with Pallas
to be from.
It means to be from the great father,
from that great thundering father.
There is no word for the son only the daughter.
This is a female centered cult that is creating these terms that Jesus
is using somewhere between 500 to 900 years after the Greeks are performing their mysteries.
Right?
Their mysteries.
Excellent, excellent.
Let's read the line.
What is she?
She is the ekgonesimne, the holy product or offspring of great theos.
Zeus of great Zeus.
And when I say Zeus, I'm referring to Jupiter himself.
I'm referring to
the Jehovah.
Yes, the deus.
The deus.
Yes, the deus.
And we have her name on the second line because we're invoking here.
Dia.
Dia.
Do you see the dia on the front here?
Dia.
Now I'm going.
Rat King will love this because we were talking about this today,
but I will go ahead and not give you, not give you the secret name because Dia hides a secret name
that if you know how to use this secret name, if you know the name, you can then manipulate that force.
If you knew what Amon meant, you could control Amon.
The knowledge, the phronasus, is what brings you that ability from the throne.
Excellent, excellent.
The phronasus.
Good.
Macaira Thea she is, but I'm not going to give you a secret name from Dia.
I will let you know though that Dia is a female form that the
deus is taken from.
It's old, old, old, Mycenaean.
It's the dewa or the dewanasa.
Oh, love it.
This is gorgeous.
This is gorgeous.
That's why they walk around calling Medea the dewanasa.
Yeah, the diwanna.
Diwanna, isn't it nice?
The Diana.
Oh, love it because what comes out of Jehovah's head, people are surprised.
What comes out, she does.
Yes, beautiful, beautiful.
Polymoclonae, right?
Clonos is a disruption in your guts on the medical side that wind that you get on your inside,
that wind that comes up, that causes you to defecate.
Yes, the storm, that wind is the clonos.
And the pollen route here, it just means war.
She is the one who engages in the storm of war, the storm of war, the obrimothume.
She has brimos.
She has, that's from the word brimo in Greek.
And it means to thunder, to shake, to create that loud voice, that loud voice that stuns.
Obrimothume, it can also be the beat of the heart, the beat of the heart.
She has the thunderous heart.
Fantastic.
Remember, she's holding it.
She's holding the heart of Dionysus.
Good.
In the next line, next verses here that we have up, great.
Arete, rete.
Uh oh, we've got some magic going on for those of you who are keeping track now.
We're performing a magic little device here.
Watch what we're doing.
Arete, rete, the unspoken and the spoken, the unspoken and the spoken.
We're using both sides of the magic.
For those of you familiar with esoteric magical texts like the PGM, you'll understand what's
going on here.
We are using the opposites, it's poles, it's the manipulation of poles.
Arete, rete, arete, rete.
And remember, this is a song that you're singing into the ear of the one who is seated on the throne.
That one is bound.
And when you're entering into this meter, you're binding that one with your song.
They said in these mystery performances, the song was more important than even the drugs.
Right?
Even the communion.
The song was most important.
Yes.
Oh, rythmic, rythmic, rythmic, rythmic, rythmic.
Beautiful.
So, um, uh, uh, what else is she?
She is the Megal Onume, the one with the great name, right?
The Antrodiaite, the one who exists in your antrum.
What is your antrum?
Your antrum is the center point of your temple.
Your antrum is the center point of your temple.
So the cult image, the cult image is what is preserved in that central place.
That is where she works.
Nice.
If you climb the hill of the Acropolis up to the Parthenon, you can reach that focal point,
that antrum.
Yes.
Originally, this is a cave.
This is a cave.
Right?
Excellent.
Um, remember Medusa is the priestess of Athena.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right?
Excellent.
Okay.
Let's keep going.
Let's keep going.
Because if we want to see the savior, that's who we're looking for.
Who is this savior?
Who is this only begotten of God?
Yeah.
Hed iepes, acthus.
What does she do?
She travels these high mountains, these high mountains, the focal point.
She is at the focal point of the mountain with the imagery is great here,
with her head thrown back, with her head thrown back.
Bordering on the word can also mean pride.
Right?
Not necessarily the bad way.
Almost a strutting.
A strutting.
Excellent.
And on the next line, on the next line, please.
Yeah, one before that.
Yes.
So there we are.
One after that.
Yeah.
Eid o rea.
Right?
Eid o rea ski o enta.
She also masters those shaded mountains.
Those shaded mountains.
You didn't think Athena was the mistress of the shaded mountain, did you?
No, but now you do.
And she focuses her mind.
She focuses her mind upon not only the mountain, but the meadows.
Right?
Not only the ridges, but the meadows, where the cities are built,
where the villages are developed over time.
She is the one who works there.
Are we seeing Athena?
There's a lot more to the onlyborn than you thought.
And this onlyborn is prophesied of.
We know it because Jehovah says, I'm going to be overcome by my monochines.
And that's why he consumes her mother.
He consumes her because he doesn't want to get overthrown.
He doesn't want to get overthrown.
Jehovah is a poopy guy.
He's a poopy guy and he wants to stay in power.
He doesn't want to relinquish his power.
Right?
So this is the way of forcing him to relinquish it,
to give her the birth.
And this comes through the Hephaestus.
Right?
It comes through the craft.
How do you open the head of Jehovah to give birth to his daughter?
Yeah.
We'll do one more line and we'll check in.
We'll check in with Mateus.
I want you to see on the next line.
Yes.
At the bottom there, Hoplauhares.
Right?
She is the one that, you know, she's delighting in the Hoplauhaun, the weapons.
She loves the weapons.
She's always pictured with that spear.
When she comes out of Zeus's head, the monochines, she comes out naked,
carrying one thing and one thing on.
She got no helmet.
She got no shield.
She got nothing.
She has a spear and it scares us all.
Here's this six foot tall hybrid viper girl.
It must have been spectacular in antiquity to see her.
It must have been spectacular to know one of these viper girls and to be like, wow.
You know, impressed.
Their eyes supposedly were bloodshot all the time and they used these poisons that they put
in their hair and or archers.
They're an archer horse culture.
Yeah.
Isn't that cool?
Yeah.
That sounds cool to me.
Yeah.
And what's the very next part of that line?
Oestrusa.
I told you guys.
The Sigmatau Rhoru, the STR Oestrusa, right?
She's causing mania.
She's causing estrus.
Right?
What is she putting into estrus psychas?
The souls of men.
The souls of men.
And where is she taking them into mania site?
Mania, see, excuse me.
Into mania.
Into maniac states.
You didn't think Athena, the builder of the polis.
You didn't think that she was the architect of mania, did you?
She is.
She is the architect of mania.
Yes.
Okay.
Okay.
Gorgeous.
One more.
One more line.
I want to get one more line in.
Gumnusa.
Sorry.
Gumnadus acorre.
Fricode sumon achusa.
Yeah.
Gumnadusa.
That's where we get the naked from the naked version.
What does that mean, the naked version?
It means the one who exercises naked.
Which is not on, you know, the concept of exercise and being naked
is welded together in the Greek.
So when I am exercising, I am doing it naked.
You know, when you run the Olympic events, you're running naked, right?
And they're doing it through Hera, the worship of Hera.
The women are doing it.
I would argue probably before.
I'll let the folks who write books about such things
make their declarations.
But probably before the male was the female version.
So this virgin who exercises naked is not, you know, the gymnast.
She is not necessarily an odd figure.
This is not strange for us to envision, right?
It's not strange for us to envision.
Good.
And she has that sumon.
Having that sumon that is our chest, her heart, her inner spirit.
Her inner spirit causes the quaking.
Causes the quaking.
OK, so we have a Korah.
We know that she's this hybrid.
She is the only born of the supreme ruler.
She alone shares his traits.
Yeah, it's gorgeous.
Let's give the scoop here on our image and just ask Mateus here.
Mateus, is there any, as you are working and as the art is coming through your hands,
is this like when you made the sculpture of the snake goddess as a younger, as a 13-year-old?
And you print coming up with the images in your mind and they're just kind of working themselves out organically.
Tell us what's going on here with this.
Is this inspiration that you're going through?
What is this?
Yeah, this is really fun, actually, now that you mentioned it.
Yeah, so a couple of things.
Like when you mentioned her having only a spear, I actually, I used the tool that I was sculpting with
and I put it in her hand and it almost went on pretty naturally.
It looks pretty good on her, too.
So it was like she was meant to be holding it.
And also, like...
Yeah, that's it, I think.
Yeah, she looks really good.
This is like a sketch, right?
This is like, you know, I'm not going for the finish here.
I'm just really going through this for the process for the presentation you're giving.
So I'm not worried about finishing it as much as I am worried about just like trying different things
and having fun with what I'm doing.
And yeah, I think it's pretty good.
You're remaining faithful to the image, aren't you?
And just as Athena is worshiped on Helicon, where the temple of the Muses is,
then we know that their worship is...
I mean, look at this artist working, right?
I had the privilege of watching Matthias produce from just the rough clay, just nothing.
It was like watching Michelangelo bring those images out of the stone.
And Matthias, could you do us one big favour?
And do you have the sketch that you made of the Athena first?
Could you show us the sketch?
Maybe hold that up to your camera?
Yeah, I do. This is her right here.
I have plenty of these sketches, really, if I had been better prepared,
I wouldn't have had a bunch of them.
But this is more or less what she's supposed to be looking like,
or what, you know, this is like the rough sketch of...
What she's supposed to look like.
Gorgeous, gorgeous.
And of course, Matthias is very humble about his work,
and it's just a sketch, right?
It's just a sketch.
Well, it's a pretty fantastic and talented sketch.
So thank you, thank you.
Let's go to the next verse and see if we can take our words
and put them into this clay, into this breathing.
This thing that's happening.
Yeah, so on the next line, gorgofone.
She is the gorgofone.
Oh, it got cut off at the top a little bit.
Maybe it's a...
Yeah, there we go.
Gorgofone, right?
What is she?
She's the killer of the gorgon.
She's the killer of the gorgon.
Who is that gorgon?
That gorgon is her own priestess, right?
That gorgon is her own priestess.
It is from the footprint of that priestess's offspring
that comes from her severed head.
It is from that offspring that the hippocrine,
the fountain of the muses, flows.
Okay?
Remember, Pythagoras said,
you want us found a city, an antiquity?
He's not talking myth.
He's talking to people who are out going to take their supplies,
get into a ship, go across the Mediterranean to North Africa,
and start a Greek colony.
And they're like, what should we do?
And he's like, number one,
the first thing you do before anything else,
build a temple to the muses.
Build a temple to the muses.
And your civilization will begin, right?
You'll have justice that way.
Okay, so here she is, the one who brings that fountain.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
She's the one who fugolectre.
She's the one who does not go to the bed of reproduction.
She does not.
Why?
She's the Virgo, right?
She is not ready.
She is perpetually.
You didn't realize that the only we got in daughter of God
was the perpetual virgin, did you?
No, she is, right?
Perpetual virgin.
She shuns that bed.
Shuns that bed, right?
Right?
She's the polu olbetechnon meiter.
She is the mother of all skill.
Technae, technae.
If you want to, if you want to stitch fabrics
in order to make a textile that displays a story on it,
you have to work with her.
She is the source of that.
Isn't that great?
I'm beginning to, I'm beginning to see all the angles
of this individual and it's gorgeous.
Yes, on the next line, I talked about hormones.
I talked about hormones before.
Here's the Greek.
Here's the Greek.
Hormastera.
Hormastera.
Hormastera.
Sotera.
Save your.
Hormastera.
She who brings the impulse.
She who brings the hormone.
She who brings the push.
You can't take your child and give her dedicate.
They call it dedication.
Give her to the temple of Athena.
Unless you expect that they will bring out in her
that invincible, medic or medusic virgin.
Medusa just means to rule.
It just means to rule.
When you create that six foot one hybrid,
12 year old hybrid, you have created a ruler.
A ruler with a greater capacity than you have.
Up here.
Greater capacity up here than you have.
Frene.
Good.
Good.
Let's see what happens.
I bet it does something to the brain.
And I bet those priestesses end up.
It's why they're always deciding what colony is going to go where
and what the judgment is.
And they bring in this murder and they're like,
what do we do with this guy?
He killed someone and she tells you,
why are they doing this?
Why does Western justice spring up in her courtroom?
The Greeks made a huge deal out of this
through Escalas with the Orestaia.
In the last play of the Orestaia, it's called the Humanities.
They transform the furies into the Humanities.
And how do they do it through Athena, the Virgin?
Yeah.
Do you see?
It's not fairytale.
We're talking about people in time.
We're talking about drugs.
We're talking about ritual and performance.
And we're talking about a hybrid girl who is handing down judgments
and telling you the future.
Wow.
This is Athena.
Athena is not what she thought she was.
Is she?
Okay.
Metis, at the end of that line, Metis.
Metis is who she's born from.
Metis, that mind, that capacity, that is not masculine.
It is feminine mental capacity.
Love it.
It's love it.
Gorgeous.
What is she?
She's an Iolomorph.
Oh, that's interesting.
What if you trace the different Iolomorphs?
You'll understand what class she belongs to.
She takes the different forms.
She has the spots on the skin, like the spotted serpent.
Have you ever seen her legs?
It's a tale of a spotted serpent.
Isn't that gorgeous?
That's fantastic.
Lamea, right?
It's the lameatic.
You know, she comes from North Africa.
She is Tritagonae after all, right?
The one from Triton, the lake.
Right?
Beautiful, beautiful.
Okay, anyway.
And right after Iolomorph, right after Iolomorph,
want to make sure you're getting, nope.
Next one.
Bump.
Yep, there we go.
Look what I've underlined in red.
Yeah, Drachyna.
Did you know Athena was a Drachyna?
The Drachyna is the Draco.
You know, the serpent.
The one who has the combination of the milk and the blood.
And you say milk.
How is she milking?
Yes, we are milking her.
She is nursing.
Right?
Because she has this.
This hybrid has this chemical that we sow value,
the galaneae, that comes from her breasts.
And they're described as grape-like.
Grape-like.
There's an exodate from them that we use.
Remember, she's been on venom since she was seven.
And how do they, oh, by the way,
how do they put them on venom?
What I have seen textually is lateral slits.
Lateral slits that are covered up with a drug impregnated bandage.
Yeah, so you go for the day and you get your,
you get your bandage, right?
And you get your, make your cut.
So these aren't, it's not bleeding like a cut until it bleeds.
And then, right?
Do it, right?
Medication.
She's shown that, right?
By the older priestesses.
So when she's at that age at seven,
that's when she's brought in.
So this is a process of building someone.
Yes, yes, building the onlyborn.
And remember, you are not to enter the bed.
You're not to enter the bed of mating, we'd say.
To them, the image of the bed was the image of that coupling,
of that coming together.
And you weren't supposed to do that.
And if you did, you lost your head, right?
And what is she?
What is this holy virgin gymnast?
What does she wear on her chest,
on the skin that's on her chest?
She wears the head of the medusa.
Nice, nice, nice.
Gorgeous, gorgeous.
How's our head coming along?
Do we have a medusic head?
Don't you love the gyrations?
Whenever Mateus is able to bring life to her,
he moves her around and you see,
you can see he's able to bring out,
because he has that art.
He's able to bring out that emotion,
that image, that feeling.
This is why we need artists, man,
to make our idols, right?
Thank you.
This is antiquity, brah.
It's gorgeous, gorgeous.
What is after Drachyna?
Bring up Drachyna again.
What is after Drachyna?
She's not only the serpent queen.
She is also feel infea.
And Dr Ruck,
those of you who know Dr Ruck will like it,
by the way, I saw some people posted some stuff
about Dr Ruck and like it.
They like his work, fantastic, phenomenal.
He was the one that I stood with in Boston
when we were talking about Harvard.
And his research is, of course,
outstanding because he works with the sources, right?
He does it.
You can't get by anything with him.
He's a scientist, right?
He brings you the sources.
Anyway, Dr Ruck coined the word entheogen, right?
N being in theos, being the god and gen producing, right?
So what is an entheogen?
An entheogen is a substance that produces the god within.
Now, this is not.
This is, it's not like he just said,
oh, I'm going to cram some bases together
and coin a word.
Good for me, right?
No, he didn't do that, right?
This concept of entheosis, right?
In our text here, in our text,
she loves that infilling.
She loves it when the god becomes one with you.
Of course, that makes sense
because that's what the priestess is doing.
She is becoming Athena
so that when she has you under her spell
and she's got you bound and drugged
and she is singing in your ear
with that obrimosume,
with that thundering powerful, powerful voice.
Yeah, she is the Athenae.
She is the Athenae, right?
Wow, all we knew about Athena
was she's on the top of this acropolis.
It's the woman symbol of the Athens and her freedom.
Yes, that's what we thought.
But wait a minute, we're all the snakes
and we're all the, what is all the ritual?
What is she doing?
She's inspiring us, right?
She's the mother of the arts,
the virgin mother of the arts.
The virgin mother of the arts.
That's why she hangs around the temple
of the muse, right?
Temple of the muse, perfect.
Okay, and the last word, a glautine.
Flegrion altera.
I'm going to take you down to the giganton.
She's the fighter of the giants, right?
The dispeller of the giants.
She's the horse motivator,
the horse completer, the horse driver.
She's that tritogenea.
She's the destroyer of the cocoon
or the dissolver of the cocoon.
No, no such thing as pollution around this,
around this only born.
There's no pollution.
You can't, she can't stand in the presence of it, right?
She's in that antrum.
She's in that center of that temple.
Good.
And then finally, yes,
she's the victory-bringing daemon.
Victory-bringing daemon or Athena Nike, they call her, right?
The bringer of the victory.
That's her.
And finally, she's nocturnal and day of the day.
She's both of day and nights serving the orais, serving the hours.
What does that mean?
When you say serving the hours,
all of a sudden you project yourself back
into the bronze age with the worship of the orai.
The orai is the sun and the moon and the stars.
It is the sun and the moon and the stars.
You should see in her this royal beginning,
the sun and moon and stars.
Finally, the last three lines.
Cluthi mw, cluthi mw, cluthi mw el hominw.
Listen to me, hear me, praying.
Now, this is in the voice of the initiates, right?
As they're singing.
Hear me, praying.
Give polu obon erenyn.
Give the peace.
Provide the peace.
Provide the koron.
And people will translate this as wealth.
It's not.
It's satiety.
Koros is satiety.
Yeah, it's the sufficiency.
Give the sufficiency.
Peace, sufficiency.
Health, huyeon.
Yes.
And in these blessed orais and these hours, right?
At these times, what is he?
She's glauach off.
She has that.
It's often described as steel, blue or gray.
They don't really understand what this word means, though.
Steel, blue or gray ops eyes.
So they call her the gray eyed.
The gray eyed.
But that gray eyed, that epithet, the gray eyed,
belongs to that gorgophonic group, right?
The ones that bring that magic.
That's their gray eyed appearance.
Gray eyed.
It's a thing.
The ops is what you look.
Look, am I?
The ops is what you look into when you confront the goddess.
When you stand before her, you are in her ops.
And her ops is gray.
Steel, blue.
Yes.
Okay.
Wonderful.
Wonderful.
How about the...
Yeah, she's the one who knows all the skill, man.
She's got all the skill.
If you want the skill, you go into her.
And she's the poluliste basileia.
The queen who is most prayed to.
The one who really accepts those,
that form of communication, right?
That prayer.
She's the one that you can bind,
that you can work with if you know her secret name.
Yes.
The half girl or virgin, half virgin, half viper.
And if you get 12 of these together in a group, you're invincible.
You're absolutely invincible.
12 archeruses with poison bows who use venoms.
None of you they use venoms,
but as you can see from our sculpture, she was raised on venom.
She was raised on venom.
So she is a different form.
You didn't know humanity was capable of this form, did you?
Now maybe you understand why they worshiped her.
Why they worshiped her.
Why they brought her out.
Why they took the children of the aristocracy.
Why they put them through if they had the perfect qualifications.
Why they put them through this regimen
in order to reach this process of the of the virgin.
Yeah.
The virgin lamia.
Yeah.
It's absolutely absolutely the pinnacle of the combo of drugs and cult.
And it is the mystery.
If you talk about Christianity as a mystery
and you fail to recognize what a mystery is, you have no clue.
You're believing the fairy tale, right?
You're following the fairy tale.
You're not looking at history and reason.
You're looking at the fairy tale.
Your faith will lead you to the fairy tale to accept it.
Reason will lead you to the reality, right?
And there's no question of whether or not you want to accept the reality
because the reality doesn't care.
Judaism and Christianity are the offshoot.
Are the offshoot of this oracular mystery.
She is Bronze Age.
She is before you.
And she manifests herself in the queen.
Yes, in the queen.
All of this pharmacology goes back somewhere.
And every signpost that I've seen
points directly to Colchis, to the witch Medea,
who is developing the echidna.
She alone, we know.
She alone can breathe that fire.
Yes.
Gorgeous.
Gorgeous.
Give me the ability.
Eason.
Eason.
People will tell you.
Okay.
I'm going to say one more thing and then I'm going to check back in with Rob
because I want to see the magic is happening.
We want to see that image and we don't want to get lost in the fairy tale.
We just want to know what those people were doing.
We want to push it and we want to say who is she?
What does she look like?
Where does she stand?
What does she do?
How does she affect history?
And when you follow the language through the Medwa,
right?
Medwa and Medusa are the same root.
They're the same root medicine where we get our word medicine.
It's the same root.
And you look at lexicographers and they'll argue about
maga and mada and where those ultimately come from.
And just long story short, the mada is the moistness.
It is the dew.
It is the manna that you reap from between her legs.
Yeah, they were using these chemicals.
They were using them in rights.
And if you are a Christian, you are not part of a mystery for any reason.
You are part of a mystery because that is the history that your religion and its
practices developed.
And Jesus stood there and said, I am the monogenes.
When he did that, when his apostles wrote that he was the monogenes,
they were claiming a right to a throne, to the throne of God.
And now you understand.
Now you understand.
Let's look at, let's look at the image.
Tell us a couple of words here.
Mateus, give us a couple of words about how you're feeling as you make,
as you bring to life.
What kind of, tell us about her that you're making for a couple of minutes.
Just, you know, free form.
Yeah, sure.
I kind of want her to be a little bit like she's doing some kind of interrogation.
So a lot of the times when I'm playing around with her, I'm sort of seeing
how like somebody, if she were huge, right, she were like six foot tall,
how she would look to somebody if they walked up to her.
Like if she's asking a question or if she's about to attack or something.
Because right now she's just standing there.
But I'm wondering like when somebody looks at her, how should they feel?
And I want to know that power of the thing that you're using there with the S-curve.
Tell us a little bit about that.
Oh, the S-curve.
Yeah.
So the S-curve is something that like,
it gives it a really like interesting shape.
It puts your hips forward, your shoulders back.
This is like what you'll see what models will do.
So they'll walk like this.
And it just elongates the body and it gives it a lot of like expression.
So it gives it a really sort of elegant expression to the body.
Instead of her just being standing regularly, she sort of loses a little bit of
the intensity of her body.
I noticed that you've captured the combination of her masculinity and femininity.
She's supposed to be female possessing masculine traits, which I think is a reflection of her
coric status.
And you have captured that.
You have really, you have really, bravo.
You've really captured that because I look at different parts of her and I'm trying to
identify masculine feminine age and I see that you've you've honed in.
You've honed in on that power of that of that perfect combination, right?
That perfect combination.
Yeah.
Why don't you tell me about, why don't you tell me about the snakes and yeah, that hand.
By the way, Mateus, look at that hand, everyone.
By the way, Mateus, look at that hand, everyone.
Look at that left hand.
I mean, wow.
I mean, that says a lot and it says different things from different angles.
I want to bring up.
I said before we're going to talk about Mr Ferrari et tori Ferrari, right?
Ferrari, right?
And his here he is.
Watch how he did the same thing.
Like when you look at her head, when you look at the angle that it is,
if you rotate the angle of her head, you'll see different positions of power.
You'll see different poses in her.
And for example, if we got under her head and we're looking at her from the ground up,
as if she is looking at us with, you see how as Mateus changes the shape,
all of a sudden the new emotion comes into the face.
Let's see.
Let's see if he's meeting up with his ancestor.
Let's see if you're an ancestor.
Let's see if we can call you the seed of Ferrari.
Can we show to your daughter, Bruno, who Ferrari made?
Yeah, you see that?
What about that?
What about that angle there?
Isn't that lovely?
Does that do anything for you that's that particular statue, Mateus?
Yeah, of course.
It's pretty interrogating you, right?
So you're looking up at him and he's looking down at you.
And I'm sure that the sun positions itself behind him,
so it's like he's backlit and it looks holy, you know?
You see?
And he's in this like dark hood.
He looks down at you.
He's sort of, it's almost like he's asking you a question.
He's interrogating you.
I really like that about this statue,
especially because I don't know much about your Bruno,
but I know he was a pretty intense guy.
So I think that this is like, it does a lot of like,
just in terms of the intensity of the pose and the intensity of the look
and the intensity of the angle that this statue is positioned
is like really speaking to his nature.
And where did Ferrari, he made the statue,
but they placed it in a specific square.
Wasn't it the square where they burned him alive?
Yep, it's in Rome, so I'm not sure what the square is,
but yeah, it's the exact place.
And the Catholic church wasn't really happy about that,
but there wasn't much they could do.
And from what I hear, and from what I hear,
Port G. Bruno was called G. Bruno.
Port G. Bruno was brought up on some kind of impiety,
some kind of charge against the church.
He was, he was, who knows what it was actually for, right?
But he was saying things about planets, about other planets,
and about the life that was on those other planets out there.
And we know that angered the church because it throws off their cosmogony, right?
We don't, their cosmogony is suddenly incomplete.
And I'm not talking about the church's cosmogony isn't the Orphic cosmogony, right?
They have, that they created their own in the Middle Ages
because the Orphic cosmogony that started the mystery was pagan.
And they wanted to reassert some sort of, hey, now this is originally our days of creation
or our days of creation, right?
And even though we're starting with the earth and uranos, right?
We're going to give you a new impression of that cosmogony.
So it didn't fit, it didn't fit all the planets.
Those of you who are out there, and there are a lot of educated people on this channel.
And those of you who are educated and who know some Bruno,
and I know that there are those of you who are out there,
you may be able to appreciate this a little bit with, I don't know,
I may just throw out an ass, a golden ass to you.
And who knows, maybe the Ferrari, you think the Ferrari image was an ass,
a golden ass first?
What do you think, Matthias?
A golden ass first, the Ferrari image of what exactly?
Like the Giordano Bruno sculpture?
No, I'm talking about the horse on the golden background.
Yeah, the horse on the golden background with the modern Ferrari.
Yeah, is that?
The car, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, it's a black horse on a golden field.
And I'm not exactly sure what the history of it is entirely,
but I do know, or if it's a legitimate, what's it called, a coat of arms,
but I do know that it used to be a donkey before.
So a black donkey on a golden field.
Nice, nice, perhaps, we don't know.
Perhaps they're using some of the same imagery.
Yeah, perhaps.
I'm talking, by the way, I'm talking about the logo, the Ferrari, the car,
the logo, right, the black stallion.
I also do know that one of the nicknames for Enzo Ferrari was a dragon,
so they used to call him the dragon.
Those old European families that preserve all of the old medieval symbols
that ultimately are derived from the roots of Hellenistic culture, from Greek culture.
That's gorgeous.
I love that, I love that.
Tonight has been outstanding.
I could sit here and look at her.
She's mesmerizing, and I can't thank you enough, Matthias.
For participating and for allowing us to be in a part of your process.
I think that we have the makings here of a real salon,
and it's an honor, Matthias, to be able to participate with you.
Yeah, thank you.
This has been really fun.
It's really fun, and it's really great to get to do stuff like this.
Also, it's good to do something like this while you're
you're reading, while you're making your presentation, it inspires.
So it's like, well, we can have multiple things happening together.
And I know I'm not the only one in the group who has artistic ability to some extent.
I'd be interested to see more people come out and do more artwork for the community.
I know a lot of people are writers also, which is
there's really great stuff on the Discord.
People have been writing, especially doing research.
So encouragement in the Templam, right?
Encouragement in the sacred space of Saturn for us to bring out this art.
Yeah, we'll do a pose for her.
She'll point at you like, I want you to.
Oh, fantastic.
Like an Uncle Sam thing, you know, like I want you to contribute.
Yeah, you're scaring me.
I don't know whether to be scared or to be excited.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Calling on all artists out there.
You see, the Virgin wants you.
The Virgin wants you.
And listing you for some dope artwork.
Yes.
Thank you, Mateus, and thank you everybody for coming tonight.
And we'll see you.
Thank you.
We'll see you Friday, Friday at Sabat.
And wow, I can't, I can't say.
Look at, look at, look at.
Just take one, one.
Yeah, give us one more hole.
Oh, just like that angle.
Look at that.
Look at that hand, people.
Oh my God.
Okay, I love it.
Hail Satan.
Y Llywodraeth Cymru
