I'm taking my last ride I paid the highest price you can pay
I'm on my way to Potter's Field The Palmer's Grave is where I'll be
To rest until the end of time For all eternity
Welcome back to Lady Babylon Wednesday Night Bible Study
It's so nice to have you aboard tonight Let me tell you what we're going to do
We've got some real, real sexy material
I mean this is the kind of cult stuff that earns the name cult
What I'm going to do is I'm not going to take you back to any sort of scholar
Any sort of academic I'm not going to give you an argument
All I'm going to do is show you a source I'm going to show you several
And these sources tonight we have to dust off the shelf
Out of that book pail, that scroll And we've got to blow it off
Here it is people This is Uncensored Tonight on Lady Babylon
Tonight we're all here for one reason That's because as we're building our case
Against Jesus who was arrested in a public park at 4 a.m. with a naked boy
Fastest ever As we're building our case
Trying to explain what his motive and his motivations were
We've got to really have what I call corroborating evidence on a trans-dimensional plane
This is corroborating evidence What is going on in the cult today
If you and I could get into a space time ship and go back and see it
We'd be in the best circumstances and it just so happens that we have dug up a spirit
Now tonight I'm not going to give you a spirit's name
I'm not, but I'm going to tell you that this Greek hasn't been English since 1860 something
And Dr. King who Englished it
Well, he did a sufficient job
But this thing has been laying in a collection
It's been laying in a collection of works that were assembled
We're going to stop the door real quick on the ship, hop out, I want you to hop out in the 1920s
Okay, I'm sorry, I know you guys like to date to be all the way out in antiquity
But tonight we're going to stop by and pick up a couple of Germans
So in they come, in they come, yeah, make room for them
Otto Kern, student of Hermann Deals, two of the greatest compilers and editors of classical texts
These are the guys who did all of the medicine, oh my god, the pharmacological stuff
All the stuff on venoms and all the cult stuff, they assembled, one of them assembled, right?
Otto, tell me Otto, what is, tell me Otto, what, what's the secret?
There's a what? A code, a code called the Orphic Vox
That's interesting, yeah, the Vox Orphica, isn't that nice?
This is one of those bits that is oftentimes ignored for centuries
Yeah, for centuries, and now we're going to dig it up tonight
And I'm going to let you see that, and I'm going to translate it for you
And I'm going to show you a little bit of a translation because I know, I know people will not believe me about this
I'm going to make an assertion now that someone is going to step forward
I can see this person with my mind's eye, I can see who they are, they're short, they're short
They have a complex, I can feel the bad vibe in them
I smell a church pew, I smell a church pew, and this person is going to come up
He's going to say, you don't have these choices
Okay, for those people, what I'm giving you tonight are the sources, and I'm sorry congregation
I'm sorry, I know you're there already, right? Sitting very stoically listening
Let's get to the goodies, shall we? This is from Otto Kern's collection
And I want to show you a couple of, well, I'll let him speak for himself
Ladies and gentlemen of the congregation of Lady Babylon
Welcome to Hermes
Welcome to Hermes
Welcome to Hermes
Welcome to Hermes
You see that snake on the rod? That's your salvation
This is the basis of the religions that you now follow
And this cult has deep roots
Tonight we're going to the Pantocrator, that one who has all the power
We're coming to the angel, I'm bringing you an angel tonight
How does this book of this nameless author open up? I want you to know, we can't hear it
So I'm going to have to tune a little bit here
It's in Dactylic Hexameter, it's in a meter
It's a song, it's a song
And what is the song? How does the song begin? The song begins with Hermes
And Hermes, the son of Maya, has come to bring to you the good news
To those who have good hearts and discrete minds
To those I offer the ambrosial gifts
In this my cave, you will find the advantages of all life
This is not for those who are foolish, who live their lives in ignorance
This is for those who hear and obey the gods
Fantastic, fantastic, okay are you ready? So you hear it, you hear the calling
Those of you with years to hear, you hear the calling, let's get to it
Let's get to it, where are we going? I want to pull us up a text, I want to hit us with a text
Where does this come from? After Hermes begins to speak to reveal it
Yeah, this golden rod, what does he do? He bids us on this richly beautiful earth
To live, taking delight in never having anything to do with the ugly
Whichever of you people out there, whichever ones of you are spurred on by a heart that is inspired
You will go to the cave of Hermes
That place is the sacred virgin
Love it, love it, love it, what has he put there Hermes for us?
Well he says he's put there for us these advantages, these things that are going to bring us vision
Alright, so that we may flee from that mourning for misery of existence that ends in death
That we may go from the mortality to the immortality by this communion
Now, you know what we're doing? We're tracking Jesus, right? We're tracking Jesus
We've come to the garden with Jesus, we've come to Gethsemane
We're about to take a look inside, we're about to see what he could be doing as Pantokrator
Yes, I am Jesus says Jesus, the Amen, the Pantokrator
Everybody said he would be coming in the Septuagint
Why? They were using Greek terms in the Septuagint? Yeah, because it's not a translation
We all know that now, we're going forward
It's not a translation, it's highly, highly technical Greek, Hellenistic Greek
It's gorgeous, it's gorgeous, if you haven't had some, you should lick it up, lick it up
It's got this in there, woo, love it, it's getting me excited
It's hard to tell, you know what really makes me excited?
It's figuring out where these works originated
That's the fun part, you know, that's what the people, the German scholars, those brilliant German scholars are digging up and putting back together
The esoteric baby, you're not going to find this elsewhere, because I don't want to sell it
Yeah, remember that everyone, this channel is not monetized, it's contractual, can't keep it going
Those of you with the hearts that are inspired understand, we can't keep it going if we take any money for it
Yes
So, let's proceed then, with Hermes, please tell us, tell us so, angel, right? Everybody realize, he's the angel in the room
Thank you, let's go, hit it, yes, no, let's go down to the next one, please
Yeah, I want to give you this, I just want you to read, look, because nobody, a little voice in my head this morning said, hey, try to shock him
And I said, I can't shock him, I can't shock him, because whatever I say, somebody comes along and says, you don't need your sources, you don't need your sources
Yes, okay, it's what we're doing the whole time, the whole time, it's all we're doing, focusing on Jesus, remember, we're investigating here, we're focusing on Jesus and what he's doing
They're drugs that they're taking, people please understand me, they're getting totally wasted on stuff, totally wasted on stuff
It's causing them to see things, to act very, very strange, into the psychotic realm
Yeah, yep, so, hold on here, let's see what these Christs are up to
I just want to read this to you, but strange, it's influence on the human brain
I'm telling you, drugs, people, watch for the drugs, nor can the rest disguise his hidden pain, from whom the dire disease, sorry
We seek to purge, sent down from heaven, the human race, discourage
He likes his rhymes, thank you, Dr. King
Soon as his nostrils feel the potent smoke, I told you, I told you, I told you they were getting high, ten years ago, I told you they were getting high
And nobody listened, now the guy who critiques me is turning around and writing a book about it, making money off it
Oh, it's funny, it's like, you know, you know what it is, goes on the hook, who knows better, who knows better than the devil what goes on the hook
You can put a little bit of reputation or a coin on that day, those humans will take it all the time, right?
He's beautiful, isn't he, he's the best looking, those angels that were just talking, he's the best looking, I love it
Soon as his nostrils feel the potent smoke, Hail Satan, throne of Asteria
Soon as his nostrils feel the potent smoke, headlong he falls as from the lightning stroke, covered with foam and fierce convulsions bound
He rolls and writhes and struggles on the ground
Hey, this is a, this is a time, this is a good time, okay, I don't know what you think, what your morals are, what your values are, but this is a good time, this is a good time
Okay, bring it back up, same one, oh my goodness
He rolls and writhes and struggles, malignant Luna, oh come on man, you know what doesn't say that
Tyrant of his brain surveys his torture and enjoys his pain
Okay, now I'm getting a little bit, it's getting a little bit hot in here, we need to, we need to tone it down a little bit, I'm just getting a little bit
I'm starting to feel it, are you starting to feel it, if we had the Aerotoxin, you'd be able to visualize, you'd be able to visualize that Daimon
Come on, can you see Aphrodite, can you see Desire, right, what do the Bakhans do, they do everything they do to visualize these entities
Fascinating, two worlds affixed upon each other, one visible, one not, fantastic
Wonderful, let's go, okay, magic, this is Jesus, we're still hanging in there with Jesus, right
Putting you in the mindset, when you inhale that smoke baby, woo, sends us, let's go to that next one, by the way, the guys having convulsions
But if a woman over its vapors bend and catch the healing fumes as they ascend, long pint within, by circulation slow, at last dissolved, denoctious, humorous flow
She marks the flux and conscious of release, what does that say, what does that say, departs exalting, having escaped the failed disease
Isn't that fantastic, what do we do with these women and their issues of blood, well, some of the cult people are drinking it as we've seen, because the stuff, the stuff is full
Absolutely junk, full of the drugs, one more, let's go back to the next text in Greek, please, we'll get a chance, sorry about that too, I pulled this off that too quick, I get that
But hey, what does this remind us of, hey, just look at here, just look at here, I want you to see, you can take the juniper, you can take a fresh cutting, the juniper I'm translating, right
That's what Medea did, she took that fresh cutting of it and she baptized, she, look at that third line down, great students, baptusa ek, kouke onos, akere tafarmaka a oidas
Oh my God, where'd she put the drugs, rein e kat of talmon, she put them in his eyes, wait, this is Medea, yeah, putting drugs into someone's eyes, making him new, and those drugs are the akere tafarmaka
The akere ta, now you don't hear it, but that's a cult word, that's a cult word, if we bring that to you, you're going to see a purification, you're going to see a virgin, you're going to see a purification and a virgin
And when I say purification, I mean a fumigation, and we are going to create her flow, we are going to create her flow, she will have the akere ta, wait a minute, what, she will have on golden bed the water of life
Oh, interesting, interesting, yeah, you see how that works, the essence is reabsorbed, that's how they said it, the essence is reabsorbed, right, interesting, fantastic, did I just hear abortion?
Yes you did, was that kind of a holy church abortion? Yes it was, yes it was, okay, okay, I'm there, I'm there, let's keep going, I'm starting to get scared, I don't know if anybody else is, but I'm starting to intimidate you a little bit, let's go, hang in there, give us the next text, yep, give us that one
Look what, what do these people do, what do these people do? They walk on water, wait what, I got to get this one out of them, okay, here's the question, here's the question nameless one, what do these people do who are engaged in the rights,
They walk, no say it, no, because we all want to hear it, we all want to hear it, we all want to hear it, please, please, what do they do, they walk on water, boom, they control issues of blood,
They walk on water.
They cast out demons.
They cause people's ears to be opened, the deaf here.
You mean these people who are following the dude
with the golden rod with the serpent?
Yeah.
What kind of serpent is that, by the way?
What does our text tell us?
The very same text I'm reading to you.
What does it tell us?
It's an aches.
It's an aches?
What's an aches?
It's a viper.
It's a viper.
OK.
Do you have time for the antidotes for us to go through?
Let's just look at what these cultists are doing with each other.
Let's just bring up that last one again.
Let me make sure I didn't miss anything.
Yep.
No, he's walking on that plain land,
like water, like it's land.
Fantastic.
I forgot to say here, though, in this one, look.
Oh, my God, we almost forgot the drugs.
This is the first time I've done this in five seasons.
Chewie, it's the first time.
It's the first time.
Oh, people, you're going to kick me for this one.
Look on that second line.
You see that cookie on us?
Do you know where she's drawing that drug?
She's drawing it from the cookie on.
Wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
Did you say?
Elusis, how many people have talked to you about elusis
and what the Elusinian mysteries are?
Did you know that Medea was using the cocaine?
And then in this case, in this case,
she's using it to make another formula while she's singing.
And this one is applied.
It's got the purple in it.
It's applied.
It says right here in that text.
I don't need to see it.
It says right there in that text.
It's applied to the eyes.
People have been asking me.
Medea, show us.
I said, you know, people are getting drugs in their eyes
and antiquity.
Medea, show us.
He doesn't have any sources.
It's because you know the sources, you classicists.
You have so messed it up.
You know this stuff is brushed into the back cabinet.
You know it is.
Do the Bible studies people have?
Are you kidding?
Are you kidding?
Do you think the religious studies people
are going to get this?
No.
If classics has so screwed it up that you and I
don't have a modern translation of this, something's wrong.
The classicists are the ones that let down.
I'll pull back on the religious history of people.
I know you are out there.
I know who you are.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's not your degree that matters.
Yeah.
It turns out.
Nobody cares about your degree.
They don't care about your place as a professor or authority.
They don't care if you're in the institute of some ho-ha thinker.
They don't care.
Nobody cares.
They're on the other side of that event horizon.
Nobody cares.
That doesn't give you anything.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
And I'm not the first to have had to explain that.
Yes.
Common arguments with the watchers.
Do you see what they're doing?
You know, what can you say?
Guilty is charged.
Yeah.
Let's go back to the text.
I want to give you some more cult stuff.
You're not going to get this from anywhere else.
You're not going to get it.
Pull up.
Give me another text.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
These are a little bit out of order,
but hey, they will pick up those snakes.
Yeah.
And if somebody, now this is often translated to kind of poopy.
I need you to realize this is the thon of semen
is a drug or a drug combo, a concoction that brings death.
That brings death.
So this is one classification for drugs and antiquity.
Those that are the death bringers.
And you can drink a death bringer.
Say Jesus, you can drink a death bringer.
I'll show you.
I'll show you.
You can use these snakes.
You can drink the stuff.
It's not going to hurt you.
It's not going to hurt you.
If I were to tell you how many anti-venoms there are
in this work that I'm quoting to you now,
that I'm leaving nameless, that I'm leaving nameless.
You know why?
Because I don't care anymore.
I'm free.
I don't care.
It's a source.
Believe me or not, I don't care.
Yeah.
Stuff can't be so.
Let's keep going.
Give me some more Greek up there.
I just want to.
This is an, yeah, these are Orgia of Greek here.
You're going to know, right?
This guy's going to know.
And by guy, I mean dood or doodette, right?
This one will know what?
How to stop that poison-wearing arrow from Eohaira.
You know who she is?
She's the goddess of the hunt.
She's the Eohaira.
She is the poison-poor.
The poison-poor.
And this guy, who is in the cave of Hermes, right?
A lot of people out there, pretenders.
I see you all.
I'm looking at you all.
You pretend magician, you people.
I would say some bad stuff, Hail Satan.
But I'm not going to.
I'm not going to.
What I'm going to do, what I'm going to do
is offer you this chance to leave.
Because I'm giving everybody in the congregation
the reality, the reality.
And here it is.
Here it is, right in your face.
Right in your face.
Use it.
This is fantastic.
Hit the text again.
Bring us back.
Bring us back.
What kind of person was that?
What were they doing?
Get your head out of the gutter.
OK, let's go to the.
This person knows how to stop.
How to stop these arrows, right?
This person knows how to stop that dragon that
drags its belly on the ground.
This person knows how to quench the Eos.
To quench that arrow poison.
If you go look up Eos, you will find arrow poison.
We are not talking myth.
We're not talking myth.
That was my myth instructor at the University of Wisconsin.
To his bottom.
Myth on Barry Powell's bottom with a red tack.
Yes, we're talking about drugs and actual history.
You need to realize those myths are based as they themselves
argued on people's.
Yeah, actual people, right?
Love it.
Let's go back to these drug users.
One more Greek text.
I know people are saying take your time,
but I don't want to take too much time.
OK, this is the dirty one here.
We got to this point 33 minutes before it got dirty.
Now, people want to know and take it down.
People want to know what's this Magus?
What is this person who knows the gifts of Hermes?
What is he doing?
What is he doing?
Oh, OK.
Now, I'm going to have to give this to you in a way that
is very, very clinical and does not stimulate us.
Yes, let me tell you what is going on.
As investigators, you're looking at a crime scene
with boys and girls and pirates.
You're looking at a scene where people are using drugs
to bridge the gap between the two worlds that
are fixed upon each other.
Now, you're dealing with a world of initiation where boys are
brought to adulthood through a drug-influenced interaction
with an adult female who is not only drugging
aforementioned a boy so that he may see Aphrodite,
but she is, as a willing vessel, accepting that diamond
to bring him to the place of vision.
That is an initiation.
That is an initiation.
OK.
Let's look at some drugs to see what kind of stuff they were
using.
Bring me back that same text.
I want to finish that off.
Yeah.
So, or we got it.
We have a new star of it.
The Aetheroi.
Who are Aetheroi?
I actually put this one up here, and so I kind of want
to show it to you, but it equals Parthenos.
It is the virgin on the masculine side.
It's as virgin as they get for masculine.
Now, when I say virgin, I do not mean a hymenly intact human
being.
You can have a discussion of what a virgin is
on a modern level, or you can ask about antiquity,
and different times it's going to change.
But if you follow the Greek, that virgin is the one who is
not yet calved, is how they put it.
And from that, I'm sorry, people, if you don't like being
compared to livestock, you know, that's too bad,
because that's what they're doing.
They're talking about the one of the species that has not
yet produced a child.
That's not yet produced a child.
That's the virgin.
That's the virgin.
And it turns out it's an age group.
It's an age group.
Yeah, it's an age group.
So, let's go see.
Back to the text.
Let's see what kind of stuff is going on.
How do we get to virgins?
This is crazy tonight.
If you think this is crazy, write something in, because,
okay, look, I'm doing the best I can to bring this to you
in the most educated way possible.
Are you ready?
Oh, my goodness.
But it makes it so hard.
What are these things, the atheoi?
Those are those virgin boys.
And what are they there?
What does that mean?
Oh, that's tender flash, baby.
The tender flash boys.
What are they there?
You can see the word hormone on that second line.
Yeah, see the Horme?
These are hormone driven.
These people who are in the mode.
You'll see the girls in a second.
It's a little bit scary what they're giving them.
They're giving them aphrodisiacs.
They say it.
All of this is to lead you to Aphrodite.
You will be seeing her.
Isn't that fantastic?
Okay.
All right.
I think I get it.
You hear the idolatry?
Now you'll know why the great Victorian stuff shirt said,
hey, this word is either idolatry or it's fornication.
Yeah, we can't tell the difference, right?
Oh, my.
I heard some protest that in England somewhere,
I heard their face just crack at that, just shatter.
I love that.
What are we doing here?
Pull that dirty thing up again, that last one.
Pull that thing up.
Let's just bring it to them.
This is enough.
This is enough.
Look, I've taken your time.
Let me just present the evidence.
What is it?
What happens to those boys?
They charge up to this Christ.
What do they do?
They bring the surrounding in the palm.
They do.
Wait.
What?
They like to wrap something up in their palm with him in their hemeritacy.
Oh, no, that's not good.
That's not good.
That means sexual desires.
Oh, my God, humorous is, you know, it makes sense that humorous is here
because humorous accompanies Aphrodite everywhere she goes.
And you say, pull that down.
I want to give them a quick Aphrodite effect.
For those of you who are trying to portray Aphrodite, please, please, please.
She is not the most beautiful goddess.
Everybody knows who obeys and is persuaded by the gods knows that Hera is the most beautiful.
Yes.
Yes.
Of course.
Of course.
Well, why is Aphrodite then the whole sexual desire thing?
Because everywhere she goes, desire goes with her.
She's that one that takes that desire.
Okay.
I'm beginning to see.
And this is important because remember, we're going to these gods for all my Muslim brother
and brothers and sisters out there.
Remember that your ancestors, if we were to appeal to your ancestors, we would appeal
to a civilization that followed Aphrodite.
And there's a little piece.
There's a little piece of that remnant that is held on a remnant inside the heart of
every beating human says, I feel it.
I feel that Aphrodite.
I feel her.
Yeah.
Isn't that gorgeous?
I love it.
Go to the next.
What else is happening with this dude?
Because this is what's going on with Jesus.
Apparently the boys, you know, like to be around Heracles as he tells us.
The boys like to be around Heracles.
All right.
He's got a naked kid with them, right?
Do you have a problem that Heracles has a naked kid with them?
Because if you don't, if you do, you're going to have to turn away from every classical
statue that you see because Hylas is always there.
He even stops his great expedition on the Argo, which is supposed to be one of, if not
the first ship.
And what does he do in the region at least?
What does he do?
Heracles, instead of staying on this great voyage that became the most popular epic
before the Iliadon Odyssey.
Yeah.
What did he do?
He left because Hylas, his boy, got left on one of the islands where they were.
Right?
You know what happened to Hylas?
You know what happened to Hylas?
He went to get a drink of water and he stuck his face, his beautiful, beautiful kid, and
he stuck his face over that well like that.
And the nymph in the water had to have him.
She had that hormone, that push, that drive.
You can induce this in someone with drugs.
Can you make someone really, really, really, really, really aroused with drugs?
Yeah.
And if you give them the right ones in antiquity, you can turn this person into a satyr, a lunatic,
a lunatic who's in a phase of psychosis.
Wow.
Wow.
Why would you want to do that?
Okay.
Let's go see.
What else is there?
Same passage.
I'm sorry, but this really needs to come across.
Go back.
No, one before that.
Go back.
Look here in the last two lines.
Who is also there?
That soft Quora.
That soft Virgin.
That Quora is a little bit different because it has a stately ring to it.
You should hear like priestess, virgin priestess queen, right?
Virgin priestess princess, something like that for the Quora.
Right?
This is the queen.
That's what they call the queen of the underworld.
Didn't you guys know that?
I know.
It's going to be such a shock.
You Christians that are out there who didn't know about Jesus and the naked boy.
Right?
You're going to be shocked to find out.
There's a whole thing about queens.
Yeah.
Queen of the underworld.
What are you going to do, man?
You thought everybody was that chauvinist?
No, no.
He kicked out his wife and spoiled the whole thing.
We're bringing back Eve.
Right?
We're bringing back Eve.
Did you know that's Greek?
Did you know it means I cry Bacchus?
Yeah.
Awadzo.
Look it up.
It's a verb in Greek.
There's nothing Hebrew about the Septuagint.
Nothing.
Adamos.
That's a dude.
Adamos is a dude within the cult.
Oh my God.
Why do you think the devil gave her access?
Right?
He was supposed to be gardener.
He wanted her to see Aphrodite.
He wanted her to see Aphrodite.
It makes you wonder about Cain's parentage, doesn't it?
Lovely.
Love this stuff.
You didn't know your background.
You Orthodox Jews and you fundamentalist Christians.
You didn't.
And let's bring in Muslims too.
You didn't realize that your holy books were based on Satanic verses, did you?
Wait, I think somebody did.
Somebody said that before.
I know that.
It was the Muslims one that was all salmon rushed.
Yeah.
Well, the deal is that's a fact.
Your religions are based upon Satanic Bronze Age mystery initiation.
And the girl that's there, the queen, she's in that golden bed and the drugs on board
and she cannot control herself.
That's the Oracle.
That's how you bring the future and the past into the present.
Fantastic.
We've got the text.
Let's just run through a couple more.
I just wanted a couple more.
Yeah.
This was that.
Yeah.
Notice that where is where is really that power that powers in the holo that powers in
that holey or that that bitterness that bite that solution that is so accurate.
Yes, that biting solution is really where this is coming from.
And we know that holey is also a poison from a serpent, particularly the one that you and
I go out and put on the pole and we watch that servant of the muse.
I don't care if you call him Moses.
We watch that servant of the muse bring the voice of God.
Yeah.
Here he is tonight.
Here he is tonight.
Let's go down to the last.
I think I have one more.
Yep.
This is this is sort of long.
So let me just summarize because I know everybody is tired.
But there's a woman in this.
I just want to tell you about the top lines.
A barbara ace.
A barbara ace.
Yeah.
And who is she?
She's this guy's mother who's talking.
And what does she do?
She knew a whole bunch of stuff about curing disease.
Yeah.
And her son is going to sing about this thing.
This noble.
Oh fight.
This noble drug of the serpent, the noble drug of the servant.
Are you ready?
You haven't.
You're your ears cannot be worthy.
Right.
None of us can sit here and receive this information without being completely humbled.
You're about to see the venom communion.
Yeah.
You mean the blood contains the venom.
Yep.
Yep.
That's why that golden bed is necessary.
Do you see why Jesus had to have a naked boy with him in a garden at four a.m. when he
was taking the cup of God as Cosmo.
Do you see that?
Do you see that?
Wow.
Okay.
I think we've got some.
I think we've got tightened up a little bit to see what Jesus is there doing with these
sexually aroused children.
Right.
And so it turns out that Jesus wasn't just arrested in a public park at four a.m. with
a naked boy screaming, I'm not a child trafficker.
It turns out Jesus was arrested in a public park at four a.m. with a naked boy that was
high on sex drugs.
Thank you for coming tonight.
Thank you for meeting Mercury.
Hail Satan.
For all eternity, my whole mother won't know where I am.
Can't bring no flowers to me on Sundays.
It's gonna break her heart, not knowing.
