A century before the first year of our Lord, a man named Diodorus from Sicily recorded
for posterity the beginnings of the greatest empire in human history. He started with the royal
family who lived on the shores of the Black Sea and called themselves the descendants of Helios.
Diodorus tells us of the royal family whose magic created an empire of the mind.
He tells us of the first queen to be the Christ. Indeed, he tells us of the oldest gospel,
the oldest mystery, and she who developed it. He tells us of her power stretching from east to
west. He tells us of the buildings and the monuments marked by her name. He tells us of the
engineering feats she accomplished. He tells us of the medicine she created and the hospitals
that were built. He tells us of the people who worshipped her. He tells us of her divine mouth
from which came the future. He tells us of Medea.
Everything starts with an expedition of Greeks from Thessaly. Diodorus tells us this expedition,
left Thrace after equipping itself with supplies, and sailed into the Pontus, the Black Sea. There
it came to the Taurian carcinese, the peninsula we now call Crimea. Diodorus tells us those Greeks
were unaware of the extreme behavior of the locals. The barbarians that live in that land
have a law. They sacrifice to Artemis Tauropolis, anyone who happens to wash ashore. This is the
place Iphigenia was later taken in order to be the priestess of this goddess, to sacrifice
to her those who were captured. Tauropolis was the goddess's cult title. She was cult leader of
the Taurians. Diodorus tells us Helios had two sons, Etes and Persees. He said Etes was the ruler
of Caucasus and Persees, the ruler of the Taurians. Both of them were known for their cruelty.
The children of Helios were marked by specific features, including hair,
the color of the sun's burning rays, skin that glowed and eyes that bore the shining
mark of Helios. Their culture was driven by drugs and the drug trade. Their arrows were
their defense, tipped with poisons that gave the Taurians and the Caucasians a distinct
military advantage. Descendants of horse cultures, these people ultimately dominated the Black Sea
as pirates.
One need only to sail by the great tower of Medea when one entered into the Black Sea to know
that the region was theirs. The region belonged to the daughters of Helios.
Diodorus tells us that Persees had a daughter named Hecate. She excelled her father in courage
in a disdain for custom. She was a huntress who worked with black hounds, and when she was not
hunting wild beasts, she hunted men instead. She was a lover of the skill of crafting death
bringing drugs. She discovered Akinite and she tested out its powers upon people, captured people
who were administered the drug. Hecate eventually used these drugs to kill her own father and to
assume power over the kingdom. When she rose to power, she established this practice of killing
strangers who happened to be washed ashore, and for this she garnered a great reputation of cruelty.
Some time later, Hecate cohabited with Eetes and produced two daughters,
Cersei and Medea. They also had a son. Cersei had an innate propensity for pharmacological
experimentation, and she discovered the powers of many drugs, unbelievable powers. She learned a
lot from her mother Hecate, but what's more, she learned even more through her own skill.
Diodorus tells us that Cersei was given the marriage to a king of the Saramations.
Some people, he says, call these people Scythians. We know that Medea had her own bodyguard,
twelve of these Scythian women, skilled in drug knowledge. But Cersei killed off the king of the
Saramations with drugs, assumed control of the kingdom, and did many bad and cruel things for
which she was exiled from the kingdom. According to the mythographers, she fled to the ocean
to a deserted island and took with her to that place all the women who followed her.
Some people say she came to Italy, to the very place we call today Kierkayen.
It was there on that island that she met Odysseus. She poisoned him and his men.
He was given an antidote against her drugs by the god Hermes, disguised as a young boy.
Diodorus tells us that Medea learned the art of drugs from both her mother Hecate and her sister
Cersei, but he adds that Medea did not have the same intent as they did. She was not cruel.
Instead, she tried to rescue strangers who had been taken captive.
Sometimes she asked her father directly to be merciful to the ones who were about to be put
to death to give them salvation. Sometimes she arranged to have them released herself.
It may be that her father Eetes was the source of cruelty, but it also may be that her mother
was the one who had established the right to kill strangers and therefore influenced Eetes.
Regardless of what the mythographers or historians argue, it's well known that Medea went on
to be the healer of the family, to be the one to spread the healing rights that she herself
would develop based upon the pharmacological cures that she had studied with her mother and sister.
Medea used the wisdom that had been stored in the activities of the family of the son
for generations. She used that wisdom in order to create a mystery right that would rule the world.
This princess who would become queen of a people in history, this princess was the origin
of the Bacchic Rite, the very maddening mystery that would sweep from east to west in the Bronze Age,
the very mystery whose decline would bring darkness to the world.
Medea discovered the Rite and an entire group of people once called Arians
would change their name to match the power of hers they called themselves the Medes.
Diodorus the Sicilian preserved for us that very Rite in the first recorded mystery. Medea is the
Christ and Diodorus brings us to that place where we can see the performance. It was this
late Bronze Age Rite that would be corrupted as early as its first generation by a man named
Heracles. Many others would develop corrupted forms of this Medic Rite such as Moses and Jesus,
but this Rite began with a woman. This Rite began in a place that was administered by a woman.
This Rite became the basis of all of civilization's religious inclinations. She is the first Christ.
And this is Diodorus's description of her initiation. This Rite begins with the creation
of an image. It is true idolatry and about this queen who invented fumigation. Diodorus says
Medea made an empty image of the goddess Artemis. She then filled it with drugs of all capacities.
Next, she Christed herself making her hair gray and her skin wrinkled. Her appearance
was such that anyone who saw her would think that she was an old woman and then
picking up this mystery initiation image and she carried it into the city where the people
were put into divine fear from it. Just as Medea was in a state of enthusiastic mania,
so did the people come under the control of the idol.
And as they did, as they entered ecstasy, Medea spoke the news of the arrival of a goddess
who should be embraced. She said this goddess had come to bring the people to a place
of fortune to protect their king. All in a state of mania worshiped the goddess with sacrifice.
All of the city was ecstatic along with Medea.
And from these origins, spring, the Bacchic mystery, it would sweep both east and west.
From the Black Sea, from the Taurean and Colquian kingdoms, a royal line produced
the first Sotera, the first savior.
And she, as divine physician, was Christ.
