Welcome, Austria, yeah.
Bolts hit the mark every time, psychotropic logos.
You know who's in the right.
Urses with the giggling smile, produce the flowers with the pow.
I give you my blood.
Do you have the blood of the dying god?
Sell fire with the stars in your eyes.
Rub it in with the man who's laughing.
I am being Frank Hallelujah from Aphrodite's lips.
Ethos, purple juice cult.
Gorgeous, make your face melt.
Terror cards dealt.
Ancient songs of cosmic spells.
Wave the magic wand from overhead.
Simon says he'll see.
Hello, hello to everybody tonight.
This is a special Lady Babylon.
What am I doing tonight?
Tonight I am addressing the good people of Australia
who are also devotees of the gods of medicine.
Yeah, what I'm going to do is I'm going to try to create a bridge
tonight for you.
I'd like to be able to bring you to the place where the medicine
was happening in the ancient world.
And I'm going to try to sink you into that matrix
so that you can see how different what it is that we do today.
How that's so strange compared to what it is they did then.
Are there advantages on either side?
I want you to be able to skip across time just to look at the medicine.
And what I'm going to do is look, I'm going to introduce myself
so that you can feel a little bit more comfortable.
I'm not just the guy in the park with the trench coat.
I am Dr. Amen Hillman.
And my PhD is in classical philology.
That is Greek and Latin.
Yes.
So philologists use those tools that allow us to access
those written sources from the ancient world.
My specialty was Galen.
The medicine, right?
I did.
Oh, for my masters, I did a translation of Galen's black bile.
It was about the plague that was going on.
Oh, God, it was gorgeous.
Anywho, then I worked on Roman pharmacy and in writing a dissertation
on Roman pharmacy, I was told by my committee,
we won't pass you unless you take out the chapter on recreational drugs
and any references to those drugs anywhere else in the text.
So I said fine and took it out and then turned it into a book.
It blew it up and sent it to St. Martin's Press and they took it.
So that's kind of how I started off in my career.
And what I bring to the table is, you know,
classics should be a thing for scientists,
not for the keepers of humanities.
I like to keep one foot on either side of the fence.
So I want us to look at something a little bit scientific
and kind of follow these texts.
I think you're going to be very pleased with this portrait of medicine.
I'm going to take 45 minutes and then I'm going to give you a chance.
Whoever is here from down under.
I want to give you a chance to ask questions
and we can have a short session here where I can take your questions
and post them up and give any kind of answers that I can give
or if I can, I can say, I don't know, should be fun.
So I appreciate you joining to me, joining me tonight at Lady Babylon.
And we're going to go ahead and jump in, Chewy,
and jump into the fight.
Are you guys ready for this?
What am I bringing you before you bring it up?
Just to give you the background.
We're talking about Galen, second century Anno Domini.
He is a personal body physician to the emperor,
the current Roman emperor, Marcus Raleus.
And he's the most prolific writer of antiquity by far.
By far.
Thousands upon thousands of pages, many of them.
Just about drugs. I've got three volumes sitting here.
They're all, can you hand me one of those?
Chewy's my pilot.
Here's volume 12.
Here's volume 12.
I purchased this from Johns Hopkins when I was a grad student.
This is a 22 volume set, complete set of all of Galen,
published in 1826 there.
So it's Greek, right?
It's Greek, just for people to see.
It's Greek.
Okay. What is it?
It's basically a physician's medical texts from, you know,
Civil War-ish here in the States.
Yeah.
Anywho, I'm going to be bringing you works from those texts.
Let me tell you something.
Nobody does this kind of work.
In the last 10 years, I did find a dissertation.
Somebody's translating Galen.
And I know there's another, I'm aware of another scholar out there
who's an MD who also did a PhD with emphasis in Galen in classics.
So I know that there's a potential out there.
But when I was in the field as a graduate student,
it was not acceptable.
My Bryn Mawr, I wrote the book called The Chemical Muse.
And my Bryn Mawr classical reviewer said,
this is a dangerous book.
It shouldn't be read at a university, right?
Yeah.
Now that same person is writing a book about shamanism,
which will inevitably have drug use in it.
What do you think about Dr. Hillman's work now?
Well, yeah, no, it looks like they're drugged.
Oh, nice job, people.
What happened to me in my career was I was about 10 years ahead of the curve.
And the frontier, as the London Times said about the work that I do,
it's really the last wild frontier, they call it, of classics.
I study the medicine.
And again, that whole volume that I just held up here, that's all drugs.
It's all drugs.
I have forgotten more ancient drugs than most people know of total drugs.
How is that?
It's because of the language.
It's because of the language.
The language of ancient Greek is powerful.
All languages are not created equal.
Ancient Greek is powerful and has just a crazy high,
crazy high number of independent words.
Yeah.
And it does that by word building and giving people who used it the ability
to be able to coin words as they lived, right?
On a daily basis.
It's why we have so many, so many hop-hocs, lagoana,
not because these words only appear in one place and we didn't find it anywhere else,
but because those are the individual author's creations.
Some authors create more than others.
And to watch the artistry of ancient Greek, it's humbling.
It's humbling.
It makes you want to burst out into tears.
Oh, God, it's gorgeous.
Okay, here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to give you an article.
This article is about Galen.
When he decided, hey, I'm going to go over to Lemnos,
and I am going to purchase 20,000 Dismuria,
20,000 pills from the Lemnian priestess who makes the Lemnian Earth.
Oh, my God.
Listen to how many different layers.
Okay, so I'm going to give you an article and I had people look at it before
and I put the link there.
So I know you've seen it.
I want it.
Oh, look at that.
Yeah.
I know that you've seen it, but let's run through it.
Hit the first star system.
Yeah, this is from Archaeometry, right?
Archaeometry.
Fantastic.
2008.
Accessing past beliefs and practices.
The case of Lemnian Earth.
Lemnian Earth is a drug very well known in antiquity,
just in great reputation as a panacea.
This thing does so much.
It wards off poisons.
It takes the negative side effects of those poisons that you've been using
and it turns it into a positivity.
Wait, what?
Yeah, they're talking about capacitating drugs.
Oh, my God.
The tech here, the pharmacological tech is off the charts.
Watch this.
Yep.
Give me the next one, Chewie.
Boom.
I just want to read this to you.
Lemnian Earth, the medicine and the shape of a stamped clay tablet,
or Spragas, from Lemnos, northeastern Greece,
was much valued in antiquity.
And in the post medieval period as an antidote to poison
and a treatment for other ailments.
Although it was among the first archaeological materials
to be subjected to chemical analysis in 1807,
that was yesterday, there is still no clear understanding
as to what made Lemnian Earth an effective medicine.
We argue that Lemnian Earth, the artifact,
was not the same as Lemnian Earth, the raw material.
We suggest a composition for the artifact by scrutinizing
the documentary evidence for its properties
and by considering the geochemical processes
that led to the formation of the raw material
and the ritual relating to its extraction.
Wait, what?
You're going to talk about the ritual?
Why?
The study of the latter highlights the need
for archaeological materials scientists to recognize,
wait, what are these nerds going to have to reckon with?
To recognize ritual as the possible manifestation
of physical and chemical processes carried out
within the framework of past beliefs and practices.
What do we have to do?
You can take it down.
What do we have to do?
We have to consider that these drugs are being used
and they're being prepped.
They're being made in environments that are cult.
We have to understand there's history here.
There's context, right?
We can have lists of all the drugs that they're using
and their rights.
We can have those.
We do.
But what we don't have is that environment,
that authentic antique environment.
This is late Bronze Age.
I want you to be thinking, where's all this tech coming from?
It's coming from women with aero poisons.
And they're dangerous, you know what I mean?
And we've got a technology that's developed of dope
and antidote.
This is a late Bronze Age.
Oh, God, like 1200 BC, right?
I forget the 1200 BC.
And what happens?
What happens?
The drug knowledge goes through the roof.
And we even have particular individuals historically
that are noted as the craftsmen that pioneered the field.
And a lot of them are called witches, right?
The most famous of which is Medea.
And she was known for having just a phenomenal, amazing
pharmacological knowledge.
And she developed rights, rights where she would Christ herself
and then turn an entire community into a psychedelic dance.
Oh, my God, it was Bacchic reality.
This Lemnian Earth that Galen is looking for,
this Lemnian Earth is part of this tradition.
There is a priestess there, right?
There is a priestess there.
And it's only through her that we get this once in a year supply
of drugs.
She only does it once a year.
Yeah.
And they make the drug.
It's got her seal on it.
It puts her seal on it because for those of you who don't know,
if I'm living in the second century and I need to go buy some drugs
because I just went to see my doctor and my doctor said,
hey, you need some drugs.
Why are they always throwing drugs at me?
It's just like today, isn't it?
No, not quite.
Not quite because back then it's the balance of individual
that you're looking to maintain, right?
So everything in my environment that I use in these compound drugs,
and when I say compound, I'm talking 20, 30, 40, 50.
The Mithridatex have 50 to 65 somewhere in that range, right?
Ingredients, different ingredients.
And these are all plants, animal products.
I've seen things used.
Oh my God.
Today we're going to look at the grime that you can scrape off
a boy wrestler's skin.
Do you know that stuff's the drug?
Wow.
Fantastic.
Let's go.
Oh, is it babies?
That's somebody from the Satanic congregation.
Yes, because they want me to note, I think,
that baby blood was used as well as medicine.
Yeah, fantastic.
Yeah, interesting.
Let's go to the next one.
Boom.
And so this is the introduction.
It's from Timothy and Earth, from Limnos to the northern Aegean,
was a medicine feigned from classical antiquity,
post-modieval times.
Hit the next one.
We already got that.
Go.
Chewie, we're off.
One star assistant behind.
Here we go.
Are you ready?
Eustatius in his 12th century,
on a dominant commentary on Homer's Iliad, right?
He notes that the priests of the metal Smith god Hephaestus
were healing those who had been bitten by snakes.
Now, he gives the Greek here.
Thank you.
Thank you for this very much, Jeb.
I guess this is.
Hoy to Hephaestu hires.
Those are those priestesses, or those priests of Hephaestus.
And who are these other ones?
Aetherapeon.
Do you see the verb?
The verb's right there on the third line down.
Aetherapeon.
That's where we get our word therapy in Anglo-Saxon barbarism.
Right?
We had to steal it from them because we're stupid to thank it up for ourselves.
Thank you, mother Greek.
Thank you very much.
Yes.
Yes.
All languages are not created equal.
You know, it's a shame.
It turns out you are who you are because of the language that you speak.
Can you believe that?
Are we capacitating people?
Yeah, with the Greek.
This is wonderful.
Let's go to the next one, please.
Boom.
Yeah.
No, wait.
Did we do that?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Here, I want to keep pointing out that we need to still need that one.
Take that rediscovering medicine down for a second.
I want everybody to see what is it?
What is it that they treat these priests of Hephaestus?
What is it literally?
I don't want any theories.
I don't want any ideas.
I want to see what is it they're actually trading.
And it's that last word.
Otheodectus.
Those who are Otheodectic, bring it up.
You know how this works.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is from this.
What you're seeing below you, below me is a Oxford is the Oxford lexicon for
Greek, ancient Greek.
So all what we have here is a word and then a whole bunch of different sources
that use the word.
And what you can do with this type of lexicon is you can track the history of the word
because word meaning drifts over time.
Your context determines what that word is going to mean.
And if you don't know different styles and different periods and different lexica,
you're in trouble.
That's what reading these ancient texts does for you.
It creates in your mind a history of where the Greek was.
Well, look at this word office.
What are these people who are in need of treatment?
They're office something.
What is an office?
Oh, serpent and stop.
It's not exactly what you think of a serpent.
Right serpents, just a snake.
Right.
Look at Roman numeral number two.
It's like a dracon.
There's another word for snake.
There's another word for snake.
Different kinds of snakes.
The office.
What is the best example of the office?
The office was in the garden.
The office is the one who opens the eyes.
Yeah.
Gives access to that fruit.
Look here.
Also constellation.
That's nice.
Nice.
We've got a lot of whenever we get old bronze age religion.
And remember, there's no distinction between religion and medicine.
There's no distinction.
All right.
Okay.
Good.
Good.
I want and you have to understand the connection to the natural.
You have to understand the connection to the, you know,
these are polytheistic nature, nature lovers.
Yeah.
And they're taking all their resources and Galen is traveling to Limnos just so he can
pick up a whole giant batch of these things.
Yeah.
It's got to have the seal of the priestess of Limnos or this stuff doesn't work.
And it's expensive brah.
As you can imagine, it's a cure all to cure all you start taking this stuff.
Oh God, people at work.
They're going to notice.
They're going to notice.
Whoa.
Look at that.
Marcus Aurelius did.
And other people were like, who?
What?
What?
Look at him.
He looks 10 years younger.
Whoa.
Oh, I love it.
Give me the next one.
And these are the details you get in the medical side.
What are the, now where are we mentally?
I just told you the priests of Hephaestus, they treat people who are Ophiodectis.
Right.
And we know we saw the office from that that is the first part of the word is a serpent
like a dracon.
We get our word Dracula from that one.
I like that one.
Dracon.
Those are the dragons.
Where are the dragons?
Dragons are temple guardians.
Just like Medusa, the Medusa, right?
They're temple guardians.
They guard things.
Medusa usually guard individuals.
Right.
And they have more of a governing role.
Where as the dracon taste those dragons, they're just there for the security of that relic.
You know, in the case of the people who were researching the drugs, it was a song that
was written on a golden fleece by a woman named Medea and we get medicine from her name.
Isn't that awesome?
Oh God, I love it.
Okay.
We got to keep the track here.
What is that?
Tectos.
What does it come from?
It comes from this verb, docno.
Right.
And it really means to bite.
If you look through this to chomp down, to bite.
But look how the meaning of it is gaseous.
Look at number two.
Roman numeral number two.
It's a pungent.
You know, what happens when you get the smoke in your eyes, you got that bite.
You got that sting.
And what did the Greeks do?
They did what they always do and they take the concrete and immediately turn it into
an abstraction and then they can play with it mentally.
And that's what they did.
Look, of the mind, it means to bite or sting.
Yeah.
And what is it used of?
Can be used of love.
Right.
That sting.
Do you know where the love of Eros comes from?
It comes from a bow.
Yeah.
It's a toxin on the end of the bow.
We have one that's called satirion that I can shoot you with.
I can shoot you with and then apply it to a medicated dildo, a leather.
The ones that I've seen leather, right?
But apply it to a leather dildo and then give you the medicine, right?
Apply the medicine to you rectally.
You can see how the lines between sexuality and medicine and cult are totally blurred.
What is the symbol?
By the way, we're on the island of Lemnos.
We're on the island of Lemnos.
And what do you find there on the island of Lemnos?
It's the God Priapus, baby.
It's the God Priapus, this old Pulaski and God.
He's the God of the erection.
Yeah, the Romans rub his statues phallus for the sake of luck, for the sake of luck, right?
And when I say luck, I mean marital luck.
Now, is this medicine that we're talking about?
Yes.
If you want to treat depression like they did in antiquity, and you say, well, they
use a whole bunch of drugs, they use drugs, they use drugs, they use drugs, they use drugs.
Depression, like they did in antiquity.
And you say, well, they use a whole bunch of drugs.
Yeah, they did.
But they did it in a very, very strange way.
You can induce states of mania for the well-being of the patient.
Remember ecstasy, ecstasis is a Greek concept.
And what is the idea based on the word?
It's a yanking out of yourself from your location.
It's literally where it is.
It's a transfer of your consciousness to a place that's outside of yourself so that you
can look at the person who is you.
That's what it says on the top of the temple of Apollo.
He's the oracular divinity.
He says, know yourself.
Know yourself.
And how can you do that?
You do that with a regular mirror magic.
And yes, it involved a whole bunch of drugs and a whole bunch of rights.
The drug that Galen is purchasing to the tune of 20,000 of these things, he's doing it specifically
via the priestess because it's her line that preserves the scientific knowledge of how
to prep the drug.
It's pretty complex.
Let's go on.
By the way, for those of you who think everybody who lived before you did was dummy, you got
another thing coming.
Let's go to the next one.
Look at this.
What is it we're all looking for?
We're all looking for oistress.
Notice the sigmatal row root or STR in English, sigmatal row, you're going to see this.
Gadfly.
It's a gadfly.
Oh, okay.
A gadfly.
Look at number definition number two under Roman numeral number two, any vehement desire
and sane passion.
You see what we're doing?
We're taking the concrete and we're creating the abstract.
And then the abstract has its own vocabulary.
If you keep reading, you're going to find it means madness and frenzy, madness and frenzy.
Madness and frenzy.
Let's go up.
Go ahead.
Flash that up.
Chewie wants to mesmerize.
Look at that.
Oh, look at that.
Now, you know, if you were a horse and you got bitten by Mr. Gadfly, you know that it's
going to induce a certain response.
This is where we get the word estrus from.
Estrus from.
Yeah.
Estrus.
Do you understand the impulse now that is the oyster and how do you create this impulse?
You do.
I just told you you do it with arrows and arrow poison.
Give me the next one.
Give me the next one.
Yeah.
The cup of Babylon indeed.
Right.
It is technically.
Love it.
Give me the next one.
What are we thinking about when we're thinking about this oyster and this mania that comes
from the arrow poison?
Here's the name EOS.
I just want you to notice in Greek.
EOS.
What does it mean?
It means arrow.
It means arrow.
Now give me this next one.
EOS.
Wait.
What?
It means another thing.
Yes.
It means poison.
As of serpents.
One of the.
No, not one of the most.
Just leave that up for a second.
The most.
Unattributed genius.
To human history is the development of reptilian venoms.
Yeah.
And the antidotes that will counteract those venoms.
Yeah.
And they didn't look at it as counteracting.
They looked at it as.
Potentiating.
Right.
That theriac.
That beast.
That theriac is a compound formula.
And it holds up the cup.
Of Lady Babylon.
What is EOS?
It's poison.
Poison of serpents.
Look, look, look, look, look, look.
Look at the bottom.
They're very bottom.
Poison it says in the Latin is virus EOS.
Look what they did.
They put a diagram.
It's probably because the Romans are being influenced by the
Etruscans and the Greeks.
In the north.
And they're Pulaski and.
Thony and earth.
Autochthonous ancestors.
So they're getting that diagram.
It's a what sound.
It's an invisible letter in Greek.
Isn't that awesome?
It's an invisible letter in Greek.
Think of this.
Think of this.
They understood.
They felt.
Where this letter actually was.
We do some Latin.
Tell me.
So that's why you see the V looking thing.
That's actually a what sound in classical Latin.
Bring up the next one.
Yeah.
Bring to me.
What is it?
We do some Latin.
Look, it says it's from that EOS, right?
But what is it?
Some slimy liquid.
Yeah.
In particular, it's used in the bad sense of like a poisonous liquid,
a poison of venom, right?
Or a virus.
Synonymous with when anum.
What is when anum?
When anum is drug, baby.
Right.
Poison.
You can translate it as poison too.
And the funny thing is, is that comes right out of.
The dawn star.
Right out of the dawn star.
How do I tell you that?
Venus.
Do you notice Venus is in there?
Yeah.
The root.
Linguistically Venus.
Why do I have Venus associated with the drug?
Give me the next one.
Why do I have Venus associated with the drug?
This is starting to get kind of strange.
Look, people in the paper, they told you we have to consider the,
the context here, the religious context, the ritual context,
because that's going to be changing things like the drug.
You want to know what the drug really was.
Right.
You have to know what they did to it, how they prepped it,
how they used it.
And we have that stuff in the absence of the conventional
means to start a scientific investigation.
We take the unconventional approach of attempting to arrive at
the nature of Lemnian Earth by working backwards.
That is from scrutiny of the existing evidence.
Okay.
Now watch this people.
We submit that this evidence should be collectively encoded in
the following major areas of study.
A, the relevant texts of classical authors.
Yeah, you could have stopped right there.
And I would have been like, oh yeah, baby, you're now we're there.
B, the understanding of the nature of clays.
Okay.
You see what's happening.
We're bringing in an expertise.
We're going to do some geology.
We're going to figure out how many angstroms those things are
apart.
And then next thing you know, we've got a better understanding.
I see of what the, what was at least in the environment of the
drug before it was changed by the priestess.
And C, the numerous accounts relating to the ritual.
Oh, look at that.
They're acknowledging that the ritual now is of value or is
critical to understanding what the drug was.
I'm going to say something.
Okay.
You can take it down.
I'm going to say something that's going to shock you.
There is no ancient mystery, including Christianity, including Judaism.
There is no ancient, oracular mystery that does not use drugs.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They all do.
And there's so many of them.
I can read Gaylen and just stuff goes in one ear and out the other.
There are a whole bunch of different types of plants.
Plants that we can't even identify properly.
I know God, you, the polypharmacy is just, it's an understanding of
our environment that we, we just don't have modern, modern healthcare
doesn't take this into consideration.
The balance that is in your environment.
It doesn't, it doesn't do that.
Let's go to the next one.
Chewie, this is fantastic.
I want to, we've got to hurry up being the devil.
Are you ready for this?
Okay.
Here, give me that one.
What is the cult context?
Here is the cult orphic hymn to Festus.
Yeah.
And you know what they're, that first line says,
thumium liban omanan.
That means we're going to end this with the, with the singing of this hymn.
You need to burn as incense, a very fine powder of frankincense.
Yeah.
Not regular.
Right.
Not that chunky stuff, but the really processed fine powder.
Right.
Okay.
You know, there's expenses, I guess.
Hephaestus.
This is a hymn to Hephaestus.
I want you to look at the first, the end of the first line.
Akamaton pur.
It's calling Hephaestus the Akamaton pur.
Pur is the word for fire, for fire.
Okay.
Now, wait a minute.
We know that Medea sows the seeds of fire and that,
that's what makes her medicine so profoundly strong.
What is the Akamaton pur?
What does that mean in Greek to be Akamaton?
Akamaton.
What is the, go ahead.
No, this one.
There we go.
What does it mean?
It means without a sense of toil.
How Victorian England.
You just, it's just kind of, not tired.
Yeah.
Not tiring.
Yeah.
Okay.
Without a sense of toil.
That which never fades is Akamatos.
That which never fades.
What is that flame?
The vestals talk about their flame this way.
Right.
It's the flame that always lives.
This is our Hephaestus as we live on Lemnos.
Okay.
Just, I'm holding him up here.
Great.
Everliving flame.
Everliving flame.
Chewie, the next one.
What else is, what else is he?
I wanted you to know it's on the previous page.
It's there here.
Light this up.
What else is he?
Phosphore.
Or Phosphorus.
And who is that?
Who is that?
Phosphorus is Lucifer, the bringer of light.
And he is part, for those of you who have not met Satan, he is part of a much older pre-Christian,
pre-monist.
It's before Judaism.
Right.
It's coming out during the Bronze Age.
And what they're doing is they're worshiping sun and moon and earth.
And the stars are the powers.
Right.
The stars are the powers.
And within this religion, you have a title of she who understands those drugs best.
And she is the Medwa, or the granddaughter of the sun.
Okay.
So, all right.
And I want people to be thanking.
So, Phosphorus, he's a guardian.
He's a guardian.
He is that morning star.
Remember Venus that we were talking about before?
Right.
It's right.
Okay.
So, wait.
We want to get to the science.
Let's keep going.
We need to get to the science.
Boom.
No.
It's okay.
Go to that one.
Boom.
Fantastic.
I wanted you to see here.
Oh, yeah.
Bring into light and all that.
Oh, look.
Look.
The name of an ISav.
Isn't that interesting?
By the way, Christing means to apply a substance to somebody's eyes that causes you to enter
a state of mania.
Love it.
A lot of IS stuff here.
Keep going.
We need to mosey along because people need good timing.
What is the God that we worshiped?
So, our authors, our scientifically inclined authors in their archeometry journal, archeometry,
said that we need to maintain, you know, to find out what was in those things.
What was in those clays and earths that they were using, right?
Well, we need to appreciate the cult in order to do that.
Well, this is the cult name for Hephaestus.
Technodiitos.
And look, they give it the one example is what I just showed you from the Orphic hymn
to Hephaestus.
Right?
This is one of those Hapox legumina.
Right?
It's only going to appear once because that author is pulling from the air this concept.
What is Technodiitos?
Technodiitos is from Techni, which is the word for art or skill or science.
Science.
And deitos is your diet.
It is your regimen.
It is your way of life.
So, the way of life of our divinity, our Limnian God, is a way of Techni, of skill.
Of skill and precision.
When you have to make calculations, you're functioning within a Techni.
So, what is this?
This is a big sign that says, hey, this guild, these people are educated as hell.
Right?
And we've got to be careful of what they're doing.
The greatest physician in all of Rome is Galen.
And he's going to this Limnian priestess.
He doesn't know how to do this process.
He doesn't know what it's about.
All he knows is it only works if she does it.
Otherwise, it doesn't work.
And stuff is being faked.
And Galen talks about it constantly.
The drug market in Rome, lots of fakes.
And so doctors develop stamps, seals, impressions that you can put into a pill.
And people can see it and say, oh, this obviously belongs to Dr. So-and-so.
He's reputable.
So, we can use this one.
And Galen still doesn't have that knowledge that the priesthood does.
So, we're talking about technical, technical crafts, these medical guilds, these medical priesthoods,
these medical temples.
It's where all of the basic knowledge is, the anatomy, what we would call physiology,
anything to do with growth, anything to do with any of the hard botany brought into the pharmacology,
all of that stuff.
These medical guilds, priesthoods really is what they are.
They're the ones who are kind of shouldering the burden of all the knowledge.
Yeah, it's fantastic.
Give me the next one.
Let's go sail.
I'm going to take a few more than five more minutes.
I'm going to take another 15.
But here, to paraphrase Renfrew's comments on cognitive archaeology, to access pathways of thought
via the means of proper scientific inquiry, one does not need to rely solely on methods of scientific analysis,
but rather on the explicit nature of the reasoning that sustains it.
In this paper, we build a case for the nature of limny and earth as an ancient medicine,
not on testing or analysis of a sample because we're not going to have any originals, right?
We're rather on the basis of reasoning out of the evidence available.
So doing, we arrive at a composition for limny and earth, and the active ingredient within
by examining the evidence and focusing on the ritual of its extraction.
Is the ritual a covert form of both a geochemical process and deliberate beneficiation, right?
Now, unfortunately, what you're seeing is that's an invasion of church, right?
It wasn't, they were turning it, they were, yeah.
One of the weaknesses of this article is that it takes the entire history of the drug.
And you have to realize that things are different when the classical priesthoods break down and are replaced.
They're forbidden and then replaced.
The knowledge is lost.
So if you're going to talk about anything post-classical, you're going to be, you know,
it's no wonder that you find this stuff doesn't actually work
because you're using that corrupted pool of knowledge.
Yeah, and no, if we're going to have the stuff that works, that sample that actually works,
that has that ancient reputation of being such a great drug,
we're going to have to go all the way back to the one that the Lemnian priestesses produced.
That's what we're going to have to do. Give me the next one, Chewie.
And, you know, it's not that hard to do that.
Yeah, yeah.
Believe the sacred earth, the alum, oh here, look at the bottom.
The alum bearing waters of the spring derived, right?
So what happens, he says, the ritual of the extraction of this clay and of the creation,
the ritual of the creation of this Lemnian earth, right?
And manual processing imparted with divine blessing, whatever, it's off.
What a procedure, part natural, part manmade that was carried out successively on a set of days you're in,
you're out. This involves the redirecting of the waters of the nearby spring over the pit from which the earth was being extracted, right?
Yeah, yeah, the redirection was carried out deliberately in the course of a year.
The pit on its own would have provided no more than a clay used for potting lowest grade or a clay, blah, blah, blah,
with those different constituents in it.
And he gets down to, he says, the alum bearing waters of the spring derived from Alanite-rich rock below
would have been absorbed by the clay enriching it into alum, which we believe to have been the special ingredient.
Now, notice, now go ahead and take it down.
Notice that he's concerned about what is the one ingredient, what is the one thing, right?
What is that one communion?
What is that one drug they were using?
Greco-Roman pharmacy is so far advanced that they would never be asking the question which drug is the one doing the job.
Remember, we're talking about balance.
We're talking about changing human physiology by means of the balance that's in nature.
That's why it's good for you to have some venom every once in a while.
Yeah, fantastic. Let's go to the next one, see what they do.
These people are using venom, by the way, right?
The venoms, the venoms are all, they affect growth.
Oh my God, chronic. Imagine it's chronic administration.
How are they, go ahead and leave that up.
But how do they ultimately, these venoms, how are they administered, right?
You make a compound drug with the venoms in it and then you impregnate a strip of cloth bandage
and put it over wounds that you have self-inflicted.
Isn't that nice?
And you get a chronic administration of your venom-enriched formula.
And yeah, to watch what it does to growth is amazing.
It's amazing.
The stuff that they were doing in antiquities is mind-blowing.
When you get into the tech, when you get into the...
Remember, these works in Greek, these are not translated.
These are not translated, right?
Why? Because classicists are not trained in the sciences traditionally.
So it's like struggling.
Go to the next one, it's like struggling with a giant gorilla.
Documentary evidence for alum Galen says,
Lemnian Earth is astringent.
This is powerful evidence that the alum is a significant opponent of Lemnian Earth
as there are very few potential astringent substances.
So look, what is he doing?
He's interpreting.
Let's just see what the source says.
Let's just see what the source says.
Blow it up to you.
This one, the print is terrible on this one.
Blow this one up.
Whoever did this for that article, shame on you.
You should be...
Go back.
Yeah, blow that one up.
Thank you so much.
Here we go.
Watch this.
Two-tone.
Ha-pa-son.
Yeah.
He lemnia dunamen iskuroteran eche.
Yeah.
So the Lemnian Earth has the strongest effect.
It has the strongest capacity of all the Earths.
And you say, wait a minute.
What am I talking about?
Those Earths...
You gotta leave it up.
Those Earths are what you get from metalon.
Metalon sounds like metal.
It's not.
Metalon are mines.
Metalon are mines when you are digging into the dirt
to harvest, to farm out those medically active components
that create the balance.
Those things, you're creating Earths.
Earths.
And the Lemnian form taken at this one time a year
by the same priestess, right?
Or the same priestly line, I should say.
That this is the stuff that really works.
And you're gonna want to say, oh, it's one thing.
It's one ingredient because that's how our medicine and pharmacy,
that's how they're oriented.
What's the one drug?
Right?
No, no, no.
The thing compounds here.
And he says, what else does he say?
He says, it's got a styptic power in it.
It's got a styptic power in it.
Go to the next one.
This is what that word, styptic, is coming from.
It comes from this Greek word, stupsis,
which means a contraction.
It's a stringent.
Causes you to stop bleeding, right?
Causes you to stop bleeding.
And dying.
Now, wait a minute.
Is dying medicine?
Yes.
In antiquity, dying is medicine.
All you Baptists out there who have been died in the purple
and have been to the death and the resurrection,
those of you who have been there know what I'm talking about.
You've taken that Thalassimus, that death inducing drugs.
Wait a minute.
You mean they even had death inducers?
Yes.
Why?
Because when you put somebody into a death state under the right conditions
and you bring them back using the proper Adola,
the proper images, we get idolatry in English from that.
When you have the proper images, you can give somebody a new life.
How's that?
You send them to the other side and bring them back.
You know what that does to your psychology?
Let me tell you something.
Medical professionals of Australia, for those of you who have ever had to deal
with patients of mental issues, psychiatric issues, psychological counseling,
any of those, you can take certain types of patients like the splenic melancholic people
and you can put them through a week of fasting, give them a drug,
drop them into a cave full of snakes.
After three days, pick them up on the other side.
Don't worry.
There's water in the cave.
Although it's completely dark, if you follow the stream, you'll get eventually to the outside.
Have people died doing this?
Yeah, but you know, you kind of break some eggs, baby, for the sake of mental health.
When you get to the other side, they call it, you look like you've come from the cave of
It means that you're completely and utterly destroyed and afraid, terrorized.
Why?
Because they gave you a psychosis-inducing drug when they dropped you in there.
Now, my question for you, modern healthcare and allied fields, you know, we would never do this.
I don't care what side of the globe you're on, we would never do this.
But for some reason, you could take a person who's depressed and you can cure them of their depression.
And it's a one-time deal.
Is it something to do with all of the brain chemistry?
I'd like to think that was an elegant, elegant part of it.
Yeah.
But, you know, hey, it may be fun too.
Maybe you've got some people you counsel or you've got some patients who would be well-served
by getting dropped into a cave full of snakes after taking psychotropics.
Yeah, it may.
Now, the other one that was, I did read, Gailen was talking about the cure for one of the cures for a type of,
I guess the best way to call it would be manic depression is involves intercourse, right?
Drugs and intercourse, which you never think about that either, right?
At what point, you know, what they're doing is they're working with the brain, right?
And at what point do you stop and say, OK, what are the drugs that they're using?
What are the effects that they're having on the brain?
And how does the sex act that's involved, how does that sex act reset the brain as well?
Is there something that your brain is doing while orgasming that is different and those drugs are affecting it in some way
and that's going to cure your depression, right?
We're cleansing ourselves.
They're looked at as purifications, purifications.
And you'd be surprised at all the mental health care that ancient physicians are wrapped up in.
You'd be really surprised at all the mental health care drugs.
Amazing, beautiful stuff, beautiful stuff.
Let's go back.
Oh, God.
Yeah, I'm on a little bit of an extra role, but I'm going to give you everything.
Look at this.
Gailen makes it clear that limny and earth should not be washed more than once.
I'll just tell you that really quick.
He says, look, the other stuff, you got to wash it a couple of times, right?
Two to three times.
He says, but the stuff that is already prepared by the priestess, don't touch it.
Don't do that, right?
You're going to alter it.
And the author of the article makes some conclusions about what this means.
It must mean there's a soluble component that's being washed out of it, right?
Okay.
Well, that's nice.
Give this possibility.
Yeah.
Great observation.
Sure.
And altered rocks that are red.
Oh, now he's going to start talking about what are the other ones?
Look, we get alanite.
Alanite is an insoluble potassium aluminium sulfate that forms on relatively high temperature,
hydrothermal acid, sulfate alteration of volcanic rocks.
Oh my God.
That is perhaps the nerdiest thing I've ever heard in my life.
But you know, that's great science people.
There's this paper is trying to track down the two authors.
They're trying to really track down what is it in the substance, but they recognize at
the same time that we're never going to figure out what it actually did because we don't know
all the cold.
We don't know all the science behind the cold.
What is it that they're doing and their preparation, the drug, you know, they prepare drugs in
the human body, you're taking the body and you're tweaking it to the point that the body
is able to produce a communion.
Medea did this the first she used her vaginal excretions.
Why?
She kept her drugs there.
Yeah.
Wait a minute.
What?
Not in a little, you know, I don't know.
I don't see a sack or baggy or maybe something even nice, you know, cigar box or something
like that.
She kept them where in her vagina.
Those ones that Christ you that she figured out, they're prepared via human filtration.
She used her vagina as a factory.
One author flakus calls it a, it's not really a factory.
It's the, the means, the black box that you can put something in that creates something
else, right?
It's that mortar from the mortar and pestle, right?
That's how he phrases it for her vagina, right?
And she's not the only one we have examples of vaginal drugs.
We have others in, especially in the arachnid tradition with like the God Apollo.
Yeah.
So there's a completely new dynamic approach to what the existence is in a state of health.
You are in a state of balance with those wild roots that are out there and those things.
And those things that grow on the trees and all of those fruits, all of those fruits and
you know, some of those fruits come in the form of animals.
And there's certain animals you can lick and certain animals.
Let's go to, we need more body fluids in here.
Let's go to the, go to the next.
Yep.
Boom.
Alam.
Look, he's just going to talk about Alam.
That's great.
That's great.
Let's keep going because I don't want to keep holding people too long.
Okay.
Breakthrough.
So this is what we're concerning people.
Ultimately, it just comes down to the papers.
Is it Alam?
Is it Cowlin?
Is it Montmorillonite?
Is it hematite?
Keep going.
Yeah.
Lemne and earth appears to have been first recognized as a pigment, but not as a medicine.
So what do the authors do?
They go back to as many references as they can.
They can't, to the drug or to the substance that's ultimately used as a drug or medicine.
And they can't get, they can't penetrate into the cult.
So they can't see those seeds of fire, right?
So we have a combo here.
Okay.
We're just going to throw those out.
It may have something to do with one of these, one of these substances, right?
Right.
Okay.
And he says that once it's called meal toast, right?
That's the dye.
That's the dye.
Okay.
We're dyers.
We're religious dyers who trans, who are able to cross a quantum barrier.
Yeah.
To the other side.
I get it.
Okay.
Kind of makes sense.
We've got wheat rust in there.
I just wanted you to see that, that red wheat rust in RoboGo.
And then all of a sudden we start talking about, is this medicine?
Yes.
But we're talking about drugs that can be used to enchant.
And you say to yourself, what?
Now, if you've ever been a counselor or psychologist, psychiatrist, say you're a psychiatrist and
you've given drugs, you've given out your prescription to somebody.
What you are doing is you are enchanting that person.
You're putting them into a state that they're not normally, I'm going to be in.
Right now, they looked at it positively in antiquity.
They looked at it as you are taking away the pain and you are replacing it with an artificial,
but naturally embedded power.
And that's namely those drugs.
Go give me the next one.
Oh God, look at this.
People are a word for toxic, by the way, comes from tuxelma.
And what does that mean in Greek?
It means arrow, arrow.
Remember, the Greeks said before they got there, the Autochthonist people were the Pulaskians.
And these are horse cultures that developed ultimately those poisons that the Scythians then push and use.
Medea has 12 Scythian assistants who are known for their drug knowledge as well.
This is a big deal.
By the way, Medea also built a gigantic bridge underneath the Euphrates River with all sorts of beautiful stuff on the inside.
So if you think you know better, you don't.
You can't, how can you get more beautiful than that?
Let's keep going.
Boom.
Conclusion in this paper, we offer the bulk composition of Lemnian Earth, the medicine as being essentially a clay
consisting approximately 40%, 35%, 20%, and 5%.
Now, how closer are we to anything historically?
Do you see how this type of research is difficult?
Because what have we really learned?
Okay, all it gives us is like a shadow of what the ingredients may have contained.
Notice I said contained, not what they were, what they contained in the processing.
What is she doing in the processing of this drug?
And that's the problem.
That you have to go to the cult to be able to penetrate, to get those answers.
Give me the next one.
Boom.
Yeah, the ritual of extraction at the bottom provided a means for concentrating both clay and soluble minerals.
Okay, so all of that brings us to that conclusion.
There's got to be something that they're doing in the process.
We don't know all the details.
We know we don't because people like Galen didn't.
And so they're keeping this within their guild.
So it's not, I don't know if it was that, if it really matters that we got.
No, we don't need to see that.
Go to this one, please.
Nope, this one.
I'm going to hurry up here.
Now, here in the end, I want to just, I want to, so we have that paper.
And I want to introduce you to just a couple of ideas that are in the environment of the cult that you may not have picked up on,
but certainly would influence how we're looking at these, the manufacture and use of these drugs.
Conizalos, what is conizalos?
It's a cloud of dust, right?
But it's also that mixed oil and sweat on wrestlers.
And that stuff is potent, man.
You can make, you make some potent drugs out of that.
Look at number three.
It's also a demon of the same class as Priapus.
Now, wait a minute.
And you're going to say, oh, you're going to feel your modern world kind of breaking down.
What do they mean?
It's a demon.
It's a demon.
A diamond is a power.
A gospel is what a drug does.
Yeah.
An Eoangelion, a gospel.
Are you kidding me?
The word before the Christians way later than Jesus started, started referring to it.
You mean that, that meant the capacity of a drug compound?
Yes.
That's its gospel.
It's what it does to save, to bring sotetia or salvation.
And think it was odd did you that Jesus is the old great physician, right?
Because all of those Christ's are dealing with drugs.
Now, look at here at the bottom, a demon of the same class as Priapus.
Priapus is the God on Lemnos with that giant erection, that giant erection.
That's where we get our ancient term Priapism.
Yeah.
We call it satiriasis in ancient, both Greek and Latin use that.
And it means that you've got a constant erection.
Now, the physician said seven days as long as you can go this way using these cult drugs,
seven days of sustained erection.
Otherwise they said people die.
I don't know.
Maybe it was cardiac.
I don't know what it was, but I can imagine that there's a stress on the system physiologically.
You know what I mean?
I'll let you healthcare people figure out what causes that.
Somebody give me a response if you know it.
And what is this?
What is this?
This is the word that we were just looking up, right?
Stuff that you scrape off of naked wrestlers, right?
It's got the sand from your arena on them and everything.
And what is this book that we're, the source that we're looking at?
It is Hesikias.
And he's an ancient lexicographer and he's going to tell us, he's going to define it for us in Greek.
So he says the conisalus is the coniodtos.
Thank you.
Seriously?
Okay.
And what is that?
It is skirtesis saturke.
It's a dirty, amorous dance.
Where your genitalia are stretched out.
Right?
Right?
Okay.
Wait a minute.
Do I need that drug for this?
It's all connected.
Give me the next one.
You're in the Madison people.
Knee deep.
Look at it.
What is a coniodtos?
It's dust raised or stirred.
Okay.
It's dirt.
But look at the bottom.
A dirty fellow.
That's the dirty fellow.
That's the Victorian way of saying that dirty dance that the conisalus does by shaking himself
in a certain way to get you to be able to enter into the right.
Right?
That's here.
We've got it.
Okay.
Fine.
What do we have to do?
We have to, there's somehow we can use the sweat of this business to figure out what's
going on.
Look at these texts.
I know you don't believe me.
I'm about to bring up.
Hit me with the first one.
This is Galen people, pure medicine.
In this section, he's writing perihidrostos.
What is that?
Oh, it's a hitros.
It's sweat.
It's sweat.
Oh my, he went to great lengths to talk about medicinal varieties of sweat.
Did you know that the people around you have sweat that can be used in the composition
of medicines?
Hmm.
Interesting.
What about this one?
What kind of substance is this?
Peri-u-roo.
U-roon.
Right?
You guys are going to recognize that one, right?
That's urine.
I have never seen so many references to urine in my life as when I started reading Galen.
That's also because they use urine as a method of diagnosis.
When you come to me and you're like, hey doc, I've got this thing going on, kind of dizzy.
The first thing I say is, let me drink some urine.
You drink your patient's urine.
The act of doing that allows you to use your mind to determine what the state of that ill
balance is.
Right?
If your urine looks this way, if it smells this way, you can tell from the smell.
Galen is big on smelling urine.
He's big on smelling urine.
He's always smelling urine.
His patient's urine.
Give me some urine.
Right?
But it's a way to diagnose because you're dealing with the natural.
If you can go out and pick up a toad and lick its whatever and enter into a mind altered
state, it surely makes as much sense to say you can gain knowledge from the body products,
bodily products of somebody, of another person.
You can see right away the line, especially with the sexuality, because remember the priestesses
are blamed as being prostitutes later.
The acts that they're performing.
There we are, Chewie.
Fantastic.
A couple of Thai fighters.
Let's go to the last couple of slides.
What else?
We were at sweat and urine.
What are we going to be testing here?
Oh, people look now.
This is the big one.
Are you ready?
What is this?
This is a special communion formula made from the porfura from the purple.
Right?
Oh, God.
Right?
You mean they drank that stuff they used to dye stuff with?
Yeah, they did.
And they also used it rectally and ocularly.
Right?
Love it.
Love it.
They were in pain, by the way.
Heracles, dogs all drank it and it's staying their lips purple.
Keep going.
Dogs are another form of temple guardian.
I know that only because they said that in antiquity.
Right?
No dragons and wolves.
Those are temple authorities.
Look at this.
What else do we need?
We need spittle.
Did you ever notice that Jesus was spitting in people's mouths and eyes, spitting on the
ground, putting it in people's eyes?
Right?
Here it is.
The spittle.
Galen has an entire section in this one, at least in this one.
Treatise on the use of the spittles and what kind of different spittles do what?
Remember, when you see these ancient physicians slash shaman represent, they're always doing
crazy stuff with their own body fluids.
Right?
The masters of Greek democracy who were influenced by people to push the world towards what we
call democracy.
Those people were using drugs.
Epiminities was using drugs.
They took his skin off and when he was done and they turned it into a relic and the Spartan
force watched it, guarded it, keep going.
Do we see how much drug use is going on?
It's amazing.
And finally, milks.
Milks.
And the strangest milk that I've seen, the strangest milk that I've seen is the milk of the Parthenos.
And in this treatise of Galen, he talks about what to put on the breasts of the Parthenos.
He doesn't just call them, he doesn't use the word mast on.
He uses tithos, or tithon, which is a grape-like breast.
It's a developing, early, purely developing breast.
And he talks about the milk from that and what it does and what it looks like.
Yeah.
So you can see.
So if Galen is going to have access to that level of knowledge, that's probably the tip
of the iceberg for what the priestly crafts are doing.
But I never thought, I never thought of harnessing body fluids that are being used in medicine
until I started seeing how they were creating these medusae.
And that's when I noticed the lateral slits in the arms and the constant exposure.
They'll do this thing where they whip the back and then they'll apply a salve to it.
Something about the release of whatever it is that that whipping action does,
whether it's adrenaline or whether it's, but they're using the drugs.
Imagine, your doctor never tells you, take this medicine, go home and have your wife beat you with a cane while you take the medicine.
Well, I don't know.
Doc, does that make, does it make a difference?
With the medicines they're using, it makes a big difference.
But they're also claiming to be able to control things that we're not able to control.
The mental illness, for example.
Also, they have cancer treatments.
They have, Galen uses Lemdian earth on a breast.
And I was talking, when I was in grad school, I was talking, because I was privy to these texts.
And I got my Bacteriology Advisor and I said, hey, can we sit down with some of the people from Bacteria microbiology and classics?
And can we have like, can I give a paper on this cancer cure?
And maybe we can come up with what the hell's going on.
And we had a nice discussion about it, but it was basically guesswork.
Well, it could be something.
One person said it could be some kind of radioactive element in the ground, in the clay that was causing some kind of deterioration.
Because Galen says he takes it, he puts it on the breast, he sows up the breast, and then the lump goes away.
It dissolves, right?
So, I don't know.
We got to some interesting possible conclusions, just like this paper did.
But the fact is, until we get into the source cult, we don't have a hope of ever trying to really, you know, achieve what they achieved,
or get to what level that they got to.
Give me that last slide.
I just wanted to end here by saying, look, this is a priest writing this.
He's writing about pharax.
And he says, hey, this Lemnian earth, and he uses the word mealtos here, mealtos here, right?
Which is what the guy in the paper was talking about.
But what does he say at the end?
On that bottom line, he says, it is a thelctadion for every sort of problem.
It's a thelctadion.
And that word that means to enchant, to enchant, yeah.
And they're using it in order to, they're saying, we're able to change a mental state, for example, towards sexual drive, right?
You can change that with the right drugs.
You can, so the person, the model for ancient medicine, I'll end with this.
Then we'll take some questions.
The model for ancient medicine is that the person has a natural disposition, and that differs between all individuals.
There is no drug, one, that is going to treat all of those different individuals.
It doesn't work like that.
The fact is, every individual is different.
And by understanding your particular composition, you can balance yourself with what is in your environment.
So it's a very different model of medicine.
And it's very old, very bronze age, and it relies almost exclusively on an in-depth knowledge of plants and animal products as drugs.
Good for human use.
Yeah, thank you very much for coming today.
I appreciate it very much, and I'm going to put, I'm just going to ask, is anybody want to ask any questions?
Anybody from, maybe from down under, everybody's Satanic congregation, nice.
I don't mean to turn you away, but does anybody have any?
Right now, let me just explain.
Right now, you can go on the chat that we have here, and you can post a question if you're curious about something,
or you want to follow up on anything, just give me a thank you, Edward.
Thank you, Edward, I appreciate it.
That's the approach that newer medicine is taking.
Look at this.
Thank you, Dr. Rahm.
You're welcome.
Do that one that says that's the approach.
Yeah, where'd it go?
Oh, it disappeared.
Look at that.
That's the approach that newer medicine is taking.
Well, that's interesting.
I hope it is.
I hope it is neoprototype.
I hope it is, because I think there's a lot of valuable stuff there that we kind of dropped in the Middle Ages,
kind of dropped and let it go by the wayside.
I think we're behind a little bit.
We can't end without any mention of Mark 14.
What is that?
Mark 14, 51, and 52 says, Jesus Christ was arrested in a public park at 4 a.m. with a naked boy.
Screaming, I am not a child trafficker.
That's what the Greek says.
Check it out.
Go to the next one.
Why do you think scientists are bringing back these old recipes?
Oh, yeah.
No, I've actually talked.
I've talked with a couple of biochemists now.
Three, actually, three.
Yeah.
And there's an interest, of course, in novel sources of novel drugs.
I think that's what it is mostly.
But the approach in every person that I've talked to, the approach has always been,
that's the one thing that's going to, you know, we're going to find one drug
and we're going to study that one drug and what it does to the body
and that's going to be our drug.
It's a very one-dimensional approach.
And scientists are going and physicians are going to have to get used to a new model
if they're ever going to embrace what the Greeks were doing.
You're going to have to change the way you think about medicine being a one-direction
vector to a cure.
Life is not like that.
And what can you do, though, with our capacity now, right?
What can you do except take one of these formulas
and hash out what all the chemistry is in each of those plants.
But if I've got 45 ingredients, you know, and this is what biochemists say to me,
you know, it's too much.
It's overload, right?
It's overload.
There's so much that can be going on.
You'd have to, I had one tell me, you'd have to make a model, an AI, an AI.
It was Hamilton.
I think it was Hamilton.
You'd have to make construct an AI.
They would be able to break down what every drug is doing and how, not only that,
but you've got to have what it's doing in the body.
And I know for a fact, though, just those interactions alone,
I can't imagine with our level of tech being able to track that.
Yeah, it's just, it's information overload.
It was much better when the knowledge of how to do that was codified by religious groups.
Yeah, religious slash physician slash.
Remember the temple of Asclepius with the serpent on it, right?
And our symbol of medicine.
That's all a cult.
That's not, that's not, you know, ancient Johns Hopkins, right?
It's a cult.
Let's go.
Question.
Could we cover the counterfeit drugs more?
I think it would be interesting to understand how they grifted in comparison for the real deal.
That's a great question, Kerry.
That's a great question.
Yeah, Galen warns us, he says, you get adulterations and it will change.
He said, you can tell from the color.
You can tell from the texture.
You can tell from the taste, whether or not something's been adulterated.
And he even says in some cases, he says, Hey, this stuff that they're trying to pawn off as living in is not.
Right.
You notice it doesn't have the seal and the colors a little bit off.
So people are trying to, to adulterate drugs, obviously for the same reason they do now.
Right.
If you can take a cheap substance and put it into your drug as a substitute, you're going to because you're going to be, you know, making more coin.
But Galen says it's it's become a huge problem.
So the response of doctors and seals that that's an entire.
It's a mechanism to keep the drugs legitimate.
It's almost like an old FDA or something.
Right.
When, when, when this drug has my stamp on it, you know that I produce quality material.
Right.
Dr. Andreas sucks.
Don't go to him.
Right.
Right.
But this other guy is great.
Right.
And Galen's always talking about these physicians all the time.
So notice, can you notice that the physicians are a lot more well rounded, well rounded in antiquity?
I don't know this science of geology.
I don't know the metallurgy.
I don't know the, you know, X, Y and Z about dye formation and mordant.
How do you do mordant to fix the dyes?
And what does that do to the entire drug?
The doctors in antiquity are having to have this working active understanding of plants and animal substances and dirt and spits and urine.
Right.
Can you imagine that after after a long day of traveling and, you know, finding buying 20,000 these pills and got to get them got to get them back to the marketplace.
And, you know, now you've got patients, you got to drink their urine.
It's, it's a tough life.
You know, sounds like a tough life.
Is there anything interesting in the Greek text of Leviticus?
That's, that's of course, it's all interesting.
Right.
It's all interesting.
Um, you know, you can talk about the oils that are used in the preparation for the priesthood of the tent.
You know, they call that tent in Greek, the Telesterion.
Right.
What is Telesterion?
It's an iracular place that you can capture the voice of a God.
Very pagan, very pagan, but they're using the same.
They're using this, not only the same plants, but also, you know, when Moses is holding up the serpent back in Exodus, there's a reason.
There's a reason.
Remember those priests of Hephaestus who are that unquenchable fire.
Right.
They hold up the snake.
They hold up the snake.
Right.
The Egyptians know about the craft as well.
Right.
They do.
They have their own traditions.
And to be honest, their medical traditions suck compared to the Greek.
The Ebers papyrus is garbage compared to the Greek.
And it's not, it's not because, you know, the people were not smart.
The Egyptians were dummies or anything.
It's a fact that the language that they use is hindering their capacity for abstract thinking.
And the Greek language encouraged it and just whipped the garbage out of every other language in the Mediterranean.
Marcus Aurelius, the Roman emperor, is writing in Greek.
He's writing in Greek.
He's taking his Greek theriac and he's writing in Greek and people are like, look, he looks so handsome.
Powerful.
Yeah.
He's a druggy.
He's a junky people and Galen's complaining about having given him more opium all the time.
Yes.
How about, can we go to modern day Limnos and try to recreate the medicine?
I'd say that would be worth a shot, Ion.
I would.
I'd say that, that would be, and you know, somebody, somebody is going to be intrepid and try to go all the way.
You know, you know, it'll probably be somebody who sees the positive benefit.
Right.
I mean, imagine this thing supposedly, you know, if we have the purple and we can supposedly treat tumors.
Wouldn't we want access at least to analyze this stuff and see what's going on?
I don't know.
It seems like a, seems like a no brainer.
I'll catch you guys.
I thought we'd go this summer, but no, it didn't work out.
Greed one.
Boo.
Let's go to the next one.
When did Galen live?
Second century.
Ono Domini during the reign of Marcus Aurelius and a little bit thereafter.
Yeah.
He was Commodus's physician too.
He kind of thought Commodus was a moron.
Yeah.
Love it.
Go to the next one.
Okay.
Give me one comment here.
Here.
How about, yeah.
Oh, look at that.
I know somebody.
Oh, phew.
I know someone who tried to suck the venom out of a snake bite of a child.
Are they a vampire?
My God, man.
Are they a vampire?
Yeah.
Speaking of vampires, that's a very Greek thing.
That's of it.
Right.
Dracon.
The order of the dragon is a great concept.
Right.
Dracon.
What is that?
Dracon.
Yeah.
That's that power.
That's that guardianship.
And the funny thing is when you are, listen, this is what I find is neat.
Maybe, is there a medical application?
I don't know.
But medically, it's interesting to think about.
When I am on that wave of the communion and I've had the drug, I've had the
attack and I've had with it the
the death inducer, that death state inducer.
When I've got those drugs on board, I get a thirst for blood and a taste for flesh.
I get a thirst for blood and a taste for flesh.
I've seen rites that use baby blood.
I've seen it.
They were Christian sex.
I was looking at early Christian sex and the stuff that they did.
There's a lot of stuff going on, man.
And you can never draw a line between what's the religion and what's the medicine.
Yeah.
Okay.
I think we'll call it Cerberus.
Get that off there.
Get that off there.
Satanic congregation, thank you for that.
Thank you for that.
Thank you for showing up to all of our friends in Australia who are looking at
modern medicine and its approaches as being insufficient.
I think those professional physicians in antiquity, those midwives,
all of those pharmacologists, I think they would say the same thing.
I think they would look at us and say, what a simplistic, stupid approach.
It's probably their language, set Anglo-Saxon garbage, probably.
Thank you very much for coming tonight.
Watch this video now.
It's nice mesmerizing.
Hit it, Chewie.
Hail Satan.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
