The Child-Rape Ritual Exposed
Early Christian priests altered perceptions of sexuality in Roman culture by employing
child rape as a means of reinforcing indoctrination. Ancient child abuse within the church was not
the product of a few rogue pedophile priests. It was a deliberative purposeful act meant
to change Roman perspectives on sexual intercourse and religion. The Christian hierarchy used
the sexual assault of minors as a means of transforming a society steeped in the veneration
of female sexual allure and feminine spiritual and political authority. The Christian war on
classical values redefined morality and enabled priests to use extremely brutal mechanisms
for changing the way people thought about sex. All levels of the Christian hierarchy including
priests, exorcists, and even bishops advocated and defended the use of ritual sodomy. It appears
that the ritual was most prominent in the catechetical school of Alexandria and likely finds its origins
there. It is also likely the Gospel writer Mark actually founded the catechetical school in
Alexandria. Many church leaders including Clement, Origen, and Jerome were involved in its rigorous
method of training new converts. Based on the writings of the early church fathers including
prominent bishops, priests, intellectuals, and even monks, it is possible to reconstruct much of the
child sodomy ritual. Authors connected with catechetical schools yield a wealth of evidence that
reveals ritual abuse to be a consistent, brutal, and highly effective means of indoctrination. According
to our ancient sources, if you were a Christian priest living in the earliest era of the church,
you knew what had to be done. Nothing was more merciful in the long run. Remove the masses of
unfortunate orphan children from the streets a few at a time and prepare them for salvation.
Starve them. Recite creeds to them with a steady droning persistent repetition and then gather
them together into the secret chamber a place that only priests were allowed to frequent. A place
where the devil could be summoned. A place where priests could forever purge them of their desire
for sexual intimacy. It may be hard for a modern audience to understand but in the early centuries
of the common era salvation was no joke. Original sin was a doctrine that non-christians ignored and
even mocked but exorcists priests took it very seriously and were specially trained to brood it
out. Every good Christian knew that young boys, particularly orphan children without the protection
of living parents, were susceptible to sexual impurity, something that would drag their souls
directly to hell. The only way to purge this impulse, the only way to save their souls was to
force them to undergo a sacred ceremony, a mysterious initiation that would forever cleanse them of
inappropriate sexual desire and deliver them to Christ.
Fires of Temptation
Contemporary Roman Christians knew of this ritual as applying, quote,
the fires of temptation. It was a devastatingly difficult indoctrination meant to rescue the
damned. It even required that a priest be on hand after its completion to fully debrief and counsel
the shell-shocked initiates. The severity of Christian initiation disturbed the Romans but
in the eyes of the church hierarchy desperate spiritual times called for desperate spiritual
measures. Ritual exorcism is not difficult to comprehend. Its theology is as elegant as its
rationale is unquestionable. In the mind of the Christian priest, the world is full of demons
and these demons have a peculiar affinity for naive, spiritually pure, pre-puberty boys.
Tertullian wrote in Apologeticus about the belief that Christians possessed a fiery breath
that was able to send demons out of the bodies of the possessed. He says that demons flee to the
touch of Christians or their breath. This fits the historical context well when we consider that
Cyril of Jerusalem, one of the greatest advocates of ritual sodomy, wrote in the Procatechesis and
Mystagogical Catechesis about the process of breathing or blowing upon young, nude, oiled boys.
Be earnest, he says, in submitting to the exorcisms. If you are blown upon and exorcised,
the process brings you to salvation.
The battle for the soul revolved around the sexual encounter of these youths
and the Christians thought it could be won if the young were given a chance to renounce the devil.
In the face of direct, unavoidable temptation, what better way to give sexually inexperienced
children the opportunity to embrace salvation than to summon Lucifer himself, let the devil
offer the pains of temptation, and then let the young reject him and flee to Jesus.
The reasoning of the exorcist priests who ended up sodomizing boys was really that simple.
Post-ritual counseling was invaluable. After all, that's what Cyril, the Bishop of Jerusalem,
had commanded of his exorcist priests. That's what Clement, the head of the Catechetical
School in Alexandria, required of his students, and church elders like Cyril and Clement were,
after all, bearers of the Divine Commission. They were only a few generations removed from
the Master himself. Their authority was impeccable, and their dictates were obeyed
because they were coming directly from God.
If you were a priest involved with catechesis, you were expected to teach children that forced
intercourse is only a sin if it is enjoyed. The distinction between willful enjoyment of sodomy
and forced enjoyment was critical to Cyril. After all, according to Christian dogma, if shunned,
any sort of sexual activity became a means of purification. That is, the job of the exorcist
was to summon the devil, let the Prince of Darkness offer the temptation through you,
and then let the child reject the act. The successful initiate would be guaranteed salvation,
and you, the priest, would be doing the work of Christ. The ritual purification by sodomy was
carefully prescribed and executed. The catechetical schools insisted that the mystery
remain consistent throughout the Empire. According to the Bishop of Jerusalem,
there must be an orthodox method of exorcism. This meant that exorcist priests were bound to follow
the writings of bishops and to allow local authorities to determine who was worthy of
assisting in such sacred duties. Saint Ambrose tells us that priests, elders, and bishops were
all present, but most importantly, priests and initiates were forbidden from discussing the details
of what happened during this sacred mystery on pain of eternal damnation,
a ritual of abuse.
Priests believed that only those who bore the onerous burden of summoning the devil himself
and those who were successfully initiated could understand the value of ritual sexual abuse.
All others should be excluded from knowledge of its specifics, wrote Cyril in pro catechesis,
quote, make sure that you don't talk carelessly, not because what you were told isn't fair to talk
about, but because the listener isn't fit to hear it. The Church Fathers were well aware that the
pagans would eventually accuse priests of crimes if they ever learned all the particulars of the
initiation, precisely because they had not been born again into the way and their natural inclination
was to defend the demons they worshipped. In short, pagans were considered to be of the
spirit of antichrist and not to be trusted with the secrets of initiations.
Young boys taken from the streets of large urban centers were prepared over a period of weeks
for their catechesis. Priests enforced a rigorous series of fast and constant indoctrination.
This reinforced repetition of Christian doctrine was the reason the process came to be known as
catechesis, which is just a Greek word for placing doctrine into the ears of novitiates. In Latin,
catechesis is transliterated as indoctrination. After weeks of starvation and repetitive indoctrination,
children deemed ready for the initiation ceremony were taken to an out-of-the-way chamber or location
where they were sequestered from the general population of novitiates. In the first step
of the process of initiation, priests removed all of the clothing of these boys. If the children
showed any evidence of being ashamed to stand before a group of priests naked, Cyril commanded
that they be reminded that Jesus was himself crucified without his clothing. They had no need
of embarrassment to stand as Jesus stood naked before the world. In Cyril's own words from his
mystagogical catechesis, as soon as you entered, you took off your tunic. Once you had taken it off,
you were naked. What a wonderful thing. You were naked in the eyes of all and felt no shame.
Then, once you had removed your clothes, you were anointed with exercised oil from the top
most hairs of your head to the lowest parts of your body.
After disrobing the children, the priests blindfolded them and then explained that their
actions were a necessary step in protecting the children from the gaze of the devil.
Next, the priests rubbed the boys generously with a sacred oil, the sacred oil like the anointing
oils also used by the Christians contained drugs that would undoubtedly facilitate the process of
exposing the children to the temptation offered by Lucifer. In short, it would numb them to the
burning fires of the devil. Following Cyril's instructions, priests supplied the oil to the
boys from the crown of their heads to the soles of their feet. It was an important priestly duty
to ensure that the children were completely covered and that the holy oil was rubbed into the
skin thoroughly. After all, it served as a barrier for their own protection and once it was applied,
the boys were forever consecrated to Christ. Cyril delights in this particular detail of the
ritual and speaks about the necessity of rubbing the entire body with oil.
Naked Oiled Children
Once the children were prepped in this manner and knelt in the hidden recesses of the church,
naked blindfolded and covered with oil, the exorcists then proceeded to summon the devil.
Once Lucifer had been summoned, he made his presence known to the initiates.
They heard his voice and became terribly afraid. The boys were then commanded to rebuke the devil
while facing him. Then they were told to turn their back to him. At this point,
the possessed exorcist applied the fires of temptation. Cyril forbade this knowledge from
becoming public, lest the pagan world misinterpret it and cause criminal trouble for priests.
What we do know about the fires of temptation is that at least one Christian author reveals them
as the act of sodomy. In other words, the Prince of Darkness, the author of the first
temptation, while inhabiting the body of an exorcist, forced prepubescent boys to submit
to anal intercourse. The devil was said to have done this in a violent manner, but the children
were allowed to suffer the temptation forced on them by the possessed exorcist because this
afforded them an opportunity to rebuke the pleasure of the sin and thus obtain salvation.
The priests who were present during the application of the fires of temptation
encouraged the children to flee the sexual advances of the devil and they were told that
they should not enjoy the experience. The priests helped the children to call upon the name of the
Lord to see past the pain of temptation to the relief of salvation. When the devil was present
applying the sexual temptation, the boys were told to rebuke him in the name of Jesus.
They rebuked his acts of violence. They rebuked his offer of carnal pleasure. Helping the children
to renounce this forced sexual act allowed them to accept eternal salvation.
After the devil was rebuked, he reportedly fled the scene and the priests witnessed the
exorcist's exhausting release. The children were then taken to a sacred bath where they were baptized
and thus cleansed of any stain. They emerged from the waters of cleansing to a new life.
Then they were given white robes to cover their nakedness, a symbol of the purity they gained
from renouncing the devil. These robes would have been made of the same material as the bandage
that covered the naked boy who was with Jesus in a garden of Gethsemane when he was arrested.
After this ceremony, the boys were returned to the priests involved in their initiation
in order to purge themselves of any violent memories of the fires of temptation.
The priests then repeated their instructions that the details of their initiations
were to remain a mystery, telling others about their experience was a sin.
The boys were reminded that hell awaits those who are disobedient. Finally, they were given food.
To a Christian priest living in the earliest years of the church, salvation was not a joke.
Priests thought that children allowed to go on living as pagans would be sent to hell for eternity.
Initiating them into the way would ultimately save their souls from an eternity of pain and
suffering. This must be the reason that priests took such drastic measures to save the youth of
the world. The pains of the fires of sexual temptation were far less horrific than an eternity
in the underworld. Whether or not modern Catholic priests are following the tradition of institutional
rape created by the earliest Christian clergy has so far eluded the public. Even a cursory
look at the earliest writings of the Christians reveals that ritual rape was an institutional
standard used in processing initiates. It is not unreasonable to assume that the theological
justification for sodomizing young boys is still present in the ranks of Catholic priests.
The rape of children in the modern Christian church may not be as organized as it was when
the church first developed, but child abuse clearly remains an institutional problem.
For reasons that continue to elude investigators, the church actively fosters and protects the
practice of child molestation and sexual assault. Priests have sexually abused children for centuries
and bishops have always protected these rapists from prosecution. The Catholic Church has remained
very much the same for 2,000 years. The problem of child rape may never be rooted out of the church
because it is integral to the very foundations of Christianity.
