I let that liquor drown in my haze Now I'm taking my last ride
I paid the highest price you can pay I'm on my way to Potter's Field
A Palmer's Grave is where I'll be To rest until the end of time
For all eternity
Welcome back to Lady Babylon. This is Satanic Initiation, and we are going to go to the dark tonight.
We are going to the darkest place that we've been so far. Many of you may be disturbed by the Bible,
but we are going to cover it. We're going to bring this Bible to you.
We kicked down the doors. We took control of our text, and we're going to throw it out there.
We're going to see the daughters of Lot tonight on Lady Babylon.
I appreciate everyone coming out. I'm not going to waste a minute of your time because we've got a place to go that's deep.
For those of you who may have some reservations about certain topics that are sensitive,
I just want to warn you, the Bible is extremely explicit. I'll be translating it to you tonight in the most explicit detail possible,
brought to you by the language itself. We love this, don't we?
Yes, but in order to set the mood, I wanted you to go and see some women. Let's call these women furies,
and in the midst of these furies is the chorus, greed stains your soul with the stench of ruin.
Today's rites are about purification. Let us start off with the purification brought for the crime of greed.
It's only what you invest in the kingdom that is going to benefit you for eternity.
They thank you, thank you, thank you for getting that money out of my pocket.
Fantastic. That has the images that you've now downloaded. We're sitting on that throne and we are ready to go.
Where am I going to take you tonight? I'm going to take you to a place called Sodom.
I know people have been asking me, where are we going to Sodom? Today's that day, but I say so with a heavy heart.
I say so with a heavy heart because we're going to have to look at things that are disturbing and confused at the same time.
You have a perception that is a translation based upon a translation of the initial account.
Tonight we're going to that initial account. We're in Hellenistic Alexandria.
We've got access to the library and tonight we're going in to look at what is there in the Greek.
I'm going to set this with a series of vignettes that I hope will put you in the place that you can see how the greed drives Sodom and Gomorrah.
Yes, it's our greed that drives it. The way that we see it, the hallucination that you and I are under about Sodom and Gomorrah.
Let's dispel it. Let's get down to the dirty and see what it is. But in order to do so, let's set ourselves with a video.
Chewie, you got the star charts. Hit it.
We may preserve the seed of our father. And they made their father drink wine that night and the firstborn went in and lay with her father and he perceived not when she lay down nor when she arose.
There is no man around here to lie with us as is the custom all over the earth. Let's get our father to drink wine and then lie with him and preserve our family line through our father.
And it was there that something disastrous happened. Lots daughters got him drunk and slept with him, resulting in incestuous pregnancies.
So one night, the oldest daughter decided to get her father drunk, worked to the point that he was unaware of his surroundings.
Once Lot was in this incapacitated state, she proceeded to have sex with him and is impregnated.
They were drunk and having sex with him. Their acts of incest show Sodom's influence on them.
Now many of you know the long term implications of this relationship between Lot and his daughters, if you can call it that.
And you know that it started out with a very strange visit by a couple of Curioi, Curioi, Curioi, the lords of the area.
These are Andres and they came in and Lot was all, whoo, come to my house, right?
Well, how do we get there? We get there through these two girls, through the two daughters of Lot, who are not, who are, may not be exactly what you think they are.
Let's pull up that text and see what the daughters of Lot, this is our first text.
Oh, you know, before we do, let's throw up a comment, get a couple of comments in here so we can warm up a little bit. I'm sorry, let's throw that in.
Thanks, Nathan. Yeah, with a real slim Jesus, please stand up. Very nice. Yeah. Okay.
I give it in the middle, right? Keep, keep working comedians. Okay, give me another one.
Give me another one. This video explains the what we need to think more now on the why and how, right?
That was last week. We're in the, into the what's going on.
Well, today, today for everyone, this is the what's going on, baby. You're looking at it. You're looking at it.
Bring up that dirty biblical text and let's get deep into it. Yeah. Yeah.
Now, by the way, for those of you who watch the video, remember that the age group on those two women that we're talking to each other, they look like maybe 45 and 25 somewhere in that range.
What we're talking about with lots daughters. Come on. This is reality. This is reality, kids. All you evangelicals out there. All you evangelicals.
Sit down. Sit down there somewhere between 13 and 17 somewhere in that range. Okay. These are his virgin daughters.
His virgin daughters who have yet to become nymphs. You mean the Bible, the good old fashioned Old Testament Bible talks about nymphs?
Yes, it does. It talks about men and women too. Yes, it does. All of this in this work that has been pasted and plastered over with medieval Hebrew to give it an appearance of something it is not.
You have to strip away that layer. The King James is going to have all the errors and everything after it's going to follow them because they're following that tradition.
We're looking at the Greek. Let's see what these girls do. Can we bring up that text again? Oh, this is fantastic. Let me put on my glasses.
Oh, you biblical scholars and evangelicals. Listen up. Yeah. And so Lot left this city called Segor, right? And he went up into the mountains, both he and his daughters.
I'm just translating to you. This is my translation by the way.
And why? Because he was afraid to live in the city of Segor. Okay, so he camped out in a cave. He and his daughters with him. They're all in the cave together, right? It's a family cave.
Yes, no problem. Still, we don't have anything. Officer, there's nothing to see here, right? All the kids in Bible study. Just wait, just wait.
Okay. Verse, verse 32, 31, excuse me, 31.
And so the older daughter said to the younger daughter, our dad, our dad is getting old. He's so old.
Okay, now it's just as old. He's so old and wrinkly. Look, he's starting to lose the power.
He's old. The other one's like, yeah? Okay, what? What's the text? Blow it up, please.
Yep, there we go. And there's nobody, there's nobody on the earth who's going to come into us, who's going to hook up with us like they do everywhere else.
There's nobody that's going to come.
Okay, come on. That's what she says. Come on, just hang, just hold on there a minute. Tell you what we'll do.
Let's give dad a drug. Yeah, we'll put it in the wine.
And then we will go sleepy time with daddy and harvest his seed. Harvest his seed.
Yeah. Isn't that a great plan? Isn't that a great plan? Oh, wow. Are you serious? It says harvest his semen.
Yes, yes. Take it down. Take it down. It says they're going to take his semen.
And the word that they use, the word that they use, I'm going to have to bring up some Greek here to you. Go ahead.
Go ahead. This is Koimao for when they're going into him. Now, things are a little bit, right? This is already after we've drugged him, right?
And you say, wait a minute, wait a minute. I didn't know the stuff was drugged. Okay, just wait, it's coming.
This is a different time, right? This is a different time. So just hang in there. Hang in there. Yeah. Yeah.
Okay, give me that next one. This one. Nope. That's the wrong, that one. There we go.
So she's going to go into him while he's in his drug state, right? And what is she going to do?
She's going to, well, she's going to lay down with him. She's going to enter into a mollifying state with him.
She's going to calm him. Look at number four, hints of sexual intercourse. Okay. Okay. Does this say that a man's daughter, his teenage daughter,
and again, this is the Bible people. I didn't make this up. So don't leave any nasty comments. This is the Bible, right?
She's just owning it. It belongs to me now. Fantastic. It belongs to us.
What does she do? She coin ma with her dad. Okay. She laid down with him. She called him. She possibly entered into sexual intercourse.
And then she harvests him. Hang on. Then she harvests him. She does this thing. That's totally last thing. Sorry, Chewie.
Can you pull down the satanic initiation for a second? Right? Some Christians somewhere just got a little tickle somewhere.
Every time the satanic initiation sign goes away, a Christian gets tickled. And you don't want to get tickled.
Let's go to Potos, right? Oh, this is more drinking. Oh, sorry, people. More drinking. Here it is. Exanastasis.
What is exanastasis? It's a removal. It's just from on his steamy, his steamy, and it just means to take it away,
to remove, to extract, right? You're looking at it from the direction of pushing it away. It's in some kind of expulsion.
They made their daddy explode his seed. Yeah. Explode his seed. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. How does daddy, right?
To everybody in the Bible studies class. How does Lot, as daddy, how does he manage to be unconscious and yet to ejaculate?
And you say, wait, I didn't know he was unconscious. Yeah, they're about to say it, right? He didn't get anything, right?
He didn't perceive either her laying on him or his explosion. And you have to ask yourself his reaping, I should call it.
And you have to ask yourself, how did he not, how is he not aware of this?
How is he engaged? Her sister comes in a little bit. She's like, we, I was successful. And her sister comes in and does the same thing.
And both of them get pregnant. So the question is, we've got a dude, old dude, couple of girls, they're both pregnant.
Don't worry, they're both virgins. That's what they said. What's going to happen, right? What's going to happen to the situation here?
Officer, I don't, don't, do you have a warrant, right? For the cave? Do you have to get a warrant for a cave?
My goodness. Where is Transdimensional Child Protective Services? This is getting gross.
What's interesting about it as a case, though, in history, what's interesting is that she's able to collect him in a semi-conscious or unconscious state where he is amnestic.
He is amnestic. He cannot remember what just happened. He could be passed out drunk. We're at a crime scene, people. The girl's father was passed out drunk.
How did they collect his semen? You cannot collect semen while a person is passed out unless, unless you've given them a drug to make them a satyr.
The funny thing is that satyrion, that drug in antiquity that's making such a splash with the sources, that drug in antiquity also induces amnesia.
Oh, you mean you can take scopolamine and atropine and all these other Belladonna-derived drugs, you can put them into a person and you can create a psychological hole? Yes, yes, experiential brain holes.
Yeah, uh-huh, chemical. What do you think anesthesia is? Yeah, yeah, fantastic. You know our chemistry is all from those plants, right? That's where we're getting it all. The Romans are using it because they know you don't want to patient when you're doing something serious like amputation or something.
You don't want a patient to have to experience that trauma, right? So if you've got the anesthetics, you give them to them. This one will help them to forget. This one will help them not have pain. This one will help to put them to sleep.
It's all plant chemistry. Yeah, love it. Love it, love it, love it. You thought that the only thing there was the THC, right? That's what you thought, right? Yeah, no, there's all universal stuff in those things.
Right? We better start walking around sampling different shrubbery if we want to recapture antiquity because they were way ahead of us, way ahead of us on all of this plant.
Okay, so it's the terminology in the Greek. The long and the short is the terminology in the Greek is so specific that she is taking that from him that he's got to have an erection. Lot's got to be erect, which you know doesn't happen when you pass out dead drunk, right?
So what about these drugs? Let's go see. Let's go back to the beginning of the chapter now and try to take a look at what's the environment like that these girls are being raised in. You know, they're acting this kind of way.
Let's see. Let's see. It's fantastic. Fantastic background. Before we do, I want to hit that video again. And I want you to take a look. Take a look at the imagery. The imagery that's in it and help me match it up to the next text that we look at. Go ahead to it.
So one night, the oldest daughter decided to get her father drunk. Worked to the point that he was unaware of his surroundings. One slot was in front of him.
So one night, the oldest daughter decided to get her father drunk. Worked to the point that he was unaware of his surroundings. One slot was in front of him.
So one night, the oldest daughter decided to get her father drunk. Worked to the point that he was unaware of his surroundings. One slot was in this incapacitated state. She proceeded to have sex with him. And it's impregnated.
The fairy tale is far less interesting than the reality, right? The reality is what Hosea, look at this. I'm quoting prophets people. You know, rule number one with the devil, read.
Read your Bible. Read your Bible. Read it. And there's this quote that I wanted to give you from Hosea. It's just three words. Here, give a Christian a tickle. Oh, there we go.
I love it. Can you feel it with my hands? I can feel it. Okay. Par oistrosa. Par oistresen Israel. Israel does what? Hosea? They are oistromaniacs.
What are oistromaniacs? They're the ones who are entering via the burning purple. This is an arrow poison, people. This is an arrow poison.
Fire the burning purple. You too can have the flux in your eyes. You too can enter into that place. Yeah, you can see. You can have your eyes open. Yeah.
Hosea doesn't like it because that is causing people to revolt against kurios. Wow. Okay. So you see some politics, right? But in the world that we're looking at, these things are not unusual.
Putting yourself into a state of mania is not an unusual thing. There's a dozen different religions you can join if you want to do just that. Okay. Fantastic. Let's go. Let's go back to the text.
I want to bring you this from the beginning. Yep. Now I'm just going to read this one. Blow this one up. Thanks, Chewie. By the way, everybody who's saying Chewie is doing such a fantastic job on her vitties.
Thank you so much from Chewie. Yep. Shout out to Chewie for having done such a wonderful job.
Look, I'm just going to translate. It's just a translator, right? Okay. So two messengers came to Sodom about the time the sun was going down and Lot was sitting at the gate of Sodom.
So seeing the messengers, he got up and he went over for a meeting and he prostrated himself. He got down on one knee with his face toward the ground, right?
He's given them a sign of respect and he said to them, hey, they're lords. Wait, that's not going to... Yeah, that's what he says. Hey, they're lords.
Lords, right? It's clean out there. Take a detour to my place. Now be your boy. I'll be your boy. That's what he says. That's colloquial Greek, for I'll be your servant.
You know, whatever you want, I'll give you. Come into my house. So he says, look, just take off your stuff, wash your feet and get up in the morning and take off on your own way.
It literally says on your own way. But they said, ooh-hee, ooh-hee. No, we think not, bro. Right? We're going to stay on the street tonight. They're going to camp in the street.
And Lot knows this is Sodom, right? Lot knows this is Sodom. Do you feel the fear? You've been falsely, you've been lied to about this place, Sodom. You do not live in Disneyland. This is the reality. Everywhere is Sodom.
Verse number three. So, you know, he got a little bit physical with them, you know, just directed him on as he beat him up. Just says he got a little forceful and he directed him to his house. So they came to his house, right?
And he made them a poton. He made them a what? He made them a poton. Now in the King James, you'll see this. This translated as meal and in the Hebrew is twisted.
But in the Greek into the meal, but in the Greek, it doesn't say that. And all of a sudden, it now makes sense. A poton is something you drink at a big banquet to get smashed.
It is something that you create to give to somebody to put them to sleep. You know what the doctors do? And this is, you class this out there. You are terrible because you don't read the physicians.
You know what the physicians do? They can make these things for you, right? They're compounds, compound drinks, and they have a base, you know, typically wine, but it's because that's alcohol in it.
They've got other bases, right? So what? What do you do? You make somebody a poton. You know who makes people potons, right? You know who makes people potions?
Witches make people potions. And you know where to go? If you can't get an erection in antiquity, if you can't get an erection in antiquity, you go to a witch. She'll make you a potion that will give you one.
That's just life, right? Drug stores with medical stuff. That's all. Lovely, lovely, love it. So what does he do? Lots making these guys a potion. It doesn't say he's making them a nightcap.
It doesn't say he's making them something to make their tummies nice while they go to bed. He's making them a potion. And they start to go to sleep. But before they drop off to sleep, before they drop off to sleep, what happens?
The city surrounds them, dude. The city surrounds them, right? Before he could drop off, this is verse four. The men of the city of Sodom, they surround them. They make a circle around the house.
From the Neoniscu to the Presbyteru. The Presbyteru is the oldest. The Neoniscos is the youngest. Do you like that? Those of you who know, praise his name, Jesus Christ was arrested in a public park with the naked Neoniscos.
He was 35 and he wasn't naked. He was wearing underwear.
Okay, okay. Well, if you actually read Greek, and this is good third century, second century, you know, Greek, it's a Hellenistic kind of about jumping into the stream of Koine, but still very, very, very didactic kind of Greek.
Still has a tinge of that attic elevation, if you will. Can you smell it? Whenever you smell attic, it smells like a saddle. It smells like a horse's leather saddle. Very peculiar combination. You lean in. Love that stuff.
Oh yeah, but this is, you know, this is a little bit more utilitarian. So what do we have here? We have the old men. Let's go back to the text. We have the old men and the boys, right? This is a crowd that goes from the, from the old men to the boys.
Yeah, and they're acting together as a group, but I'm just going to translate it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And they called out the lot and said, Hey, he said, Hey, where are these dudes that came to you tonight? Bring them out so that we may
I can't say it without getting myself in trouble. But if I were to translate this, if I were to translate this using my great dirty language translator, it would be a word begins with F. Yes, yes. Okay. Yes, so that you may what them.
How many words? This is another word. This is soon gig no more. Right. This is really to be with. And in the sense of, in the sense of bringing, bringing these two things together. Yeah, you can be born with somebody too. Isn't it weird?
They looked at twins being born the same as having intercourse. Huh, to be together. Yeah, to become together. And then they've got another sex verb coming up, which means to know, to know.
I know you. Right. Right. It's a little bit in your face. Right. But it's that idea of complete and total knowledge. You know everything. Right. We've known together.
The King James people like to rely on this. Thank you to scholars like Jeffrey Henderson who write books about the dirty, the dirty language in Greek. His first book about dirty language Harvard, shout out to all the morons at Harvard.
His first book about it was about dirty language and out of comedy. He took it to the Harvard Press and they said no. No. Oh, I see. Yes. It was too rough for their palates. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
But he got it published anyway. Eventually. Right. Some things are sensitive. Right. And they end up, he didn't even make it to the book burning. He just didn't, didn't get through the door without going around doing a run around the academics.
So the dirty language is very specific. And I have students that I'm working with now that we discuss and look through his work on dirty language. And it's so more so so much more sophisticated in Greek so much.
There's nuances, just smells, little odors, little bouquets of every little, every little naughty word has a little bouquet, a little ping ping. Oh, smell that smell that. So this is disturbing.
Are you finding it disturbing? Let's go back to the text. Let's get them. Let's get them out. They've got to see why that we came or this is not going to be productive.
Okay, everybody, let's go really quick. Lead them out to us. You know, you know, so he goes out. Lot goes out and he's standing on the porch, you know, and he closes the door, right, so that they can't get in.
And he says, look, guys, don't do this. Don't mistreat these men. You know, what does he say verse eight? And this is perhaps the most interesting verse in the Bible, which will show you that you really don't understand what's going on.
Verse eight.
Look, I have two daughters, and they haven't had sex with a dude.
Yeah. How about I bring them out to you and you enjoy them as you deem appropriate.
And you ask yourself, what? What? Wait, he goes on to say, just don't violate these men, right? Right. Or before he says, don't violate these men. That's why they came under my protection.
Here are my daughters. Here are my daughters. What is going on? These are girls who are virgins. They're going to go out. What do you think they're going to do?
What do you think they're going to do in Sodom and Gomorrah?
Where they have the drugs to turn you into a Seder, where they have the rights to initiate you into a world of death and to bring you back.
You know what that resurrection is? It's the same concept of bringing out the seed, bringing out lots seed.
When you have dead Osiris with just a phallus, there are drugs you can use to bring out that seed. There are drugs you can use. Yeah.
This is nothing new. What you see, what you're smelling that are confusing to us are these hints, these whiffs of this old religion that is really a part of the culture.
And you can't detect that. It's like radiation. So when you're reading the Bible, if you don't have a radiation detector, you really have no context.
And that's why it really isn't all that odd that he offered his daughters to the city. They get really mad and they say, look, you don't realize that you're a dude who moved here and we're natives.
So you know what we're going to do? We're going to do to you what we were going to do to them. And then the angels come in, take blood and say, you better get your people and get out of town.
This is before he had sex with his daughters. You better get your people and get out of town, right? But he didn't know any of it. He didn't see any of it.
They're making potions. They're making potions people. And the pharmacological golden age is the late Bronze Age.
Yeah, it is the late Bronze Age. Okay, so just so you understand the draw of the text, realize that these people are doing things that in the context of their civilizations are accepted and normal.
Okay.
For them to collect their father's semen is not just to Randy girls being naughty. This is more than some kind of incestuous fun time.
They have the skill to take a man who is unconscious and bring his bring his semen out so that they can impregnate themselves.
What kind of how much knowledge do you have to have in order to affect this kind of an outcome? A serious amount and it only makes sense. It only makes sense that lots daughters would have a serious amount of information.
Abram. Wait, that's what they call Abram. There's no pig in Abraham. Abram. And what he does he wakes up in the morning, right? This is a very powerful, very powerful late Bronze Age figure.
And he gets up. What does he do? Hey, not late bondage. He's a little bit earlier than that. But Bronze Age. Bronze Age. And he gets up and he's looking out. He's looking out at what's going on.
Because he goes to a meeting with Curios. He goes to big, you know, who big yahoo. And he's standing there with him with the guy whose name doesn't exist on is what they call the being.
But that got translated out into yahoo.
There he is. I told you they were oyster maniacs. I know some oyster maniacs in Israel today. They were telling that Abraham's like standing there with God, right? And he's like, dude, you see what's going on?
You see what's going on? He looks off in the distance and he sees this vapor, this vapor and it's a word that is so specific there is no word for it in Hebrew. So the Hebrew fudges it and says smoke.
But the problem is the smoke reappears in a different form coming later. And they have to repeat the word.
Oh, they did such a terrible job. Here's the message I'm sending. I'm going to send a message. I'm going to send a message to the Masoretic sect in the 10th century.
You guys are terrible at what you do. You're terrible. Leave the Greek alone.
Okay. That's all I can sustain.
Yeah. And it's this simple and logical.
And we have the text right in front of us, but we are surrounded by the prison cell that is the fake narrative, the fairy tale of the last 2000 years of historical detritus.
Yeah. This is flotsam and jetsam. It's built up over time.
And that's what we don't need. It's obscuring that text. This text about lots daughters is a lot more sophisticated than you think.
And these people are a lot more intelligent than you can look back on and say, oh, weren't they primitive?
Let me tell you something. They knew more about drugs than you will ever know ever.
Pikers. You're all pikers. Yes, that's us. Pharmacological renaissance.
That's what it was. Pharmacological renaissance.
What you've seen tonight is disturbing, but it's much more disturbing from the angle of why didn't we learn this earlier?
Why do we have such a distorted perception of these texts?
During this fifth season of Lady Babylon, it is why my one commission to bring back the Septuagint to bring back the Bible.
It belongs to the pagans. It is full of paganism. It is full of great.
Thank you for coming this week. Thank you for your time.
And I hope to see you next time. Hail Satan.
