Sunday morning, dark clouds rising, oh there's no sunshine anywhere.
Strong winds blowing, God give us wisdom to grasp the message in the air.
Oh, if I could have one wish and know that it would come true,
I'd wish that God would give us strength to know just what to do,
then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Fences created by such evil men, then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Maybe we could walk together again.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon. This is Wednesday night Bible study.
And boy, do I have a whopper for you. I have a whopper for you.
Tonight is going to be dedicated to the art, to the art of the ancient sorcerer Christians.
Yes, yes, you're going to love it tonight on Lady Babylon.
So tonight, when we're wrapping up the sermon, we will bring in the guns,
and Neil will be joining us with some additional firepower.
Fantastic. You're going to love it tonight. This is good stuff.
This is good stuff. But I'll start out. Neil will slide in.
Tonight, I want to take you, and before I tell you where we're going,
I'm going to dedicate this to a person called Gunkratch.
Gunkratch is a demon possessed sorcerer. He gets his cues from the devil.
Yeah, he does. He does. And he says to me, hey, have you seen this text?
Have you seen this text? I'm like, no. He says, you know, it's this good stuff from the apocrypha.
And what did I do? I ignore him. I ignored him.
A thousand pardons. Master Retch, a thousand pardons.
So Gunk talks to the devil and the devil tells him, give this over to Amon.
So he tries again. He mentions it. Oh, and he says, you've got to find it.
And I'm like, oh, God, I hate these things because most of them are Coptic.
And I can't go back to the original, right? Bring it to me if it's in Greek.
Oh, my God. Guess what? The acts of Philip people.
We owe Gunkratch a round of applause and a giant thank you tonight.
Everybody out there in the chat sin. Sin GW the best.
And say thanks a lot for bringing us. Now, what did Gunk bring us?
Gunk brought us a ton, an absolute ton of drugs and cold.
He even brought us. And this is, this is what perked my ear up.
This is, you mean this is a fourth century text that's in great Greek.
And it talks, it talks about the dragon queen.
Yes. Yes, it does. It does Jesus and the sayings of Jesus that you didn't hear
because the church said, we're going to have to get rid of that.
Well, we've got the Greek. We don't care if it's part of the canon or not.
We bust down the doors and take control of all of it. Right?
We're going to do that. We're going to do that. Oh, God.
And I've got a follow up coming, coming for satanic initiation on Friday that this is culmination.
Love it. It's good stuff. Okay. I won't take up any of your time.
Let's get to it. That's enough. Turn it off, Chewie. We've gone back in the machine.
We're there and we want to see what's going on. Let's purify this joint before we get out and start breathing the vapes.
Shall we do that? Let's purify this place tonight. We call in Hipta.
We call her in to cleanse this temple.
Music
Fantastic. Doesn't that feel good? That feels good. Here's what I'm going to do as the accompaniment, as the subasius.
I'm going to tell you, just as a preview on Friday, it will be the episode to end all screeds.
I am going to put us all into the skin of an ancient lacedace.
And I'm going to show you what you've never seen.
Oh, God. Let's bring it. Let's bring it, Chewie. Hit it.
It starts. Let's go to our first point. What is this? Oh, bring it up. Bring it up. Lovely. Don't you love seeing the Greek?
Oh, God. So what are people saying? People? Philip. Philip. People.
Philip. Philip. People. Who is Philip? Let's just look through the evidence.
This is the apostle of Jesus. And I say, yes, you are right. Now, let's see what the text says, not what our traditions say, not what our best intentions say.
Let's see what the text say. Let's meet Philip. Let's go. Okay. So what are people saying about him? Some people are saying he's a magus.
Look at line two, people. The third word in, magus. Do you see that? You cannot, you cannot not look at that anymore. It's in your brain.
Philip's a magus. And what else is he? He's scolios. That guy is bent. That guy is twisted up here. You know what he does? I'm translating.
You know what he does? He divides the sexes. What does he do that for? He teaches that chastity is the focus to God, to God.
We'll get there by chastity and that people who participate in producing children, they fall short into a place of pain.
Thank you, Philip. Thank you, Philip. Do me a favor. Can you turn a woman into a man? Philip, would you do that for me? Philip.
In the name of Jesus Christ, would you turn a woman into a man? No problem says Philip. I'll show you. Let's go to the next one.
Who is this Philip guy? Look at that third line in. I know this is somebody talking to Philip. Look over here at Philip.
I know that you are a pharma cause and not just any pharma cause, not just any drug using guy. You're one of the ones that works with Jesus.
That's right. Did you know Jesus told Philip about this place? He told him. He told him, now catch up with you over there. Where is Philip?
He goes to Greece and as we're going to track him, he ends up in Asia Minor, modern day Turkey.
He ends up in a place, he ends up in a place where they worship a lady dragon, the great mother, the great mother.
How does Jesus know about these people? Let's see. Let's see. Let's not make anything up. I've been honest with you the whole time, people.
We can't start making stuff up now. Let's go right back to the text. Here it is for anybody who says, I'm the only guy on the internet.
Take it down to you. I'm going to brag for a minute. Just everybody let me feel a little bit.
I see a lot of people on YouTube doing lots and lots of shows, giving lots of interviews, and I see a lot of ideas.
And I don't see anybody actually doing the Greek. I see a lot of people professing to, but I don't see a lot of people doing it.
So the next time somebody says, where's his evidence? It's right here. Bring it up to you. It's right here, people. Look, here it is.
Okay, let's read this. Let's just read it in the Greek. He says, I'm going to do a sign. He says, I know that you're a pharmacist and a student of Jesus.
He says, you're not going to bamboozle me. You're not going to bamboozle me because what's Phillip been doing? He's been bamboozling people.
This guy is nuts. This guy is nuts. He makes people blind and then heals them. Leave it up. He makes people blind and then heals them so that they will follow him and give him their children.
You're kidding. Oh, by the end of this, you guys are going to be so fed up. You're going to be so fed up with this circus.
You're not. Make your stomach turn what these Christians are doing and all under direct leadership and guidance of Jesus himself.
Now, Phillip, fortunately, is able to conjure Jesus. He's able to say shazam and then all of a sudden, there he is. It's really cool. You should see it.
And lots of drugs. Anyhow, anywho, see how they're calling him a drug, a drug guy? Watch what he does.
He says, you're not going to, this other guy tells Phillip, he says, you're not going to bamboozle me. You're not going to mess with my mind.
And so what does he say? All day I'll post it, but the Apostle says to him.
That's his summoning. He's just summoned Jesus. Tahuel, they come quickly.
And then he gave him some of the words that we see in the Greek magical papyri. Fantastic. Isn't that nice?
And look, they say these things forwards and backwards. They take syllables and reverse them. Oh, it's good stuff.
And if you're able to follow it, you can tell which gods are being implicated.
So here Phillip is, he says his magic words, up comes Jesus. And let's go back to the text. Up comes Jesus. Yeah.
And next, oh, oh, oh. And so, and so Phillip is like, Phillip is like, okay, here we go. And he does this thing.
And, you know, he's like, got a shout that's magic. If you want to think of it that way. And he shots this thing out, this magic shot and the ground underneath this guy who says, you're not going to bamboozle me.
It opens up and then swallows him up to his knees, up to his knees. And he says, now do you want to be a Christian?
The guy's like, no. So the ground opens up again, only this time up to his neck.
And he says, now do you want to be a Christian? Long story short, you know, sometimes it's hard to convince somebody to be a Christian.
Sometimes you've got to, you know, bury them up to their neck, torture them a little bit, right?
That's what the document is clearly supporting. This is fantastic. I love it.
Remember, we're with the lace days, right? We're with an organization that traffics and children.
Right. What do you think we're doing where we're doing? You want to chart the, the missionary travels and journeys of Phillip?
Just look at all the stops he's got to make to get kids.
They continued the tradition. Why? They were born into it. Right. They were born again.
You want to see the drugs that they're making them born again with? Let's see.
Next one. Give me the next. Oh, look at this. Oh, here it is. Are you ready, people?
Look at this. He deemed them worthy. There were some people that are following Peter, right?
I mean, Phillip. And he deems them worthy of, of the Spragus.
What is a Spragus? Look at that last word. Spragidos. Nice. Nice.
What is that? What is that? Oh, well, let's just click to the next one. Let's see.
Boom. Next one. Go ahead. Yeah. Here's the definition of three and five is what I want you to look at for what this thing is that he's got a tablet of Lemnian medicinal earth.
Okay, fine. We got some medicine there. Jump down to number five, a pastile. Does anybody know what a pastile is? Does anybody know?
It's a little bitty pill. Take that down to you. It's a little bitty pill that you can put in a cup and it will dissolve and you can drink it.
And whatever benefits of the pill were you're going to get. But you can also take that little pill and they make them this way and you can burn it.
You can put that little cup in a brazier and you can burn that thing and fumigate yourself. Either way, you can inhale it or you can swallow it.
Huh. Okay. Okay. So he's giving him a pastile in the Christing. Okay. Okay. Hold. Just hold it. Remember, he's a pharmacos.
He's a pharmacos. So the technical vocabulary that they're using is pertinent. It's overly pertinent.
Okay. So let's go back to the one under that one. I want people to see the Latin as well because we have this thing. Go ahead under the under the last one we did.
Next one. There we go. It comes from the Latin word pastilis, right? Look, a little loaf, a little loaf in medicine. It's a little round ball or cake or lozzage.
And then you see the Greek word below that. Yes. And all of a sudden, take it down. I'm going to give you something. You're welcome. You can thank me. You can thank me for this.
In the book of the apocalypse, when we are talking about beasts and seals, we are using medical terminology. It is cult medical terminology.
That lace stays. The lace stays uses. And next week, when we go walking the shoes of an ancient lace stays, you're going to be surprised. You're going to be surprised about the power and effect of the drugs within the child slave trade.
Yeah. You're going to love it. We got speaking of child children slaves from antiquity from the ancient world. We need some, we need to bring them back in. I've got more Bible with more of the, you know, with more of the child slaves.
Let's see. You know, next text, next text. Boom. Give me the next one. Yeah, right. Oh, look, I mentioned them and here they come. It just can't get any better, right? So he deemed these people worthy of this pill, right? That they receive in the Christing.
And what happens when they used it? Look, I'm the very next line. A great joy breaks out in the house, right? And they're dwelling. And what happens? Poloiduloi, lots of slaves, and lots of Pideski.
Oh, no. Oh, no. And this isn't just saying, this isn't just saying male slaves and female slaves. This is saying slaves, both male and female. And you know what the Pideski is, right? Prostitute. Prostitute.
Okay. That's what the Greek says. I'm just bringing you the Greek. And for those of you out there, you try and try again to sit under the bridge and write your screed and try to get me thrown off of YouTube. For those of you who are into those kind of tactics behind the veil,
you
Thanks, Joey. Thanks. We got a little stat. We got a little cat to come through a little asteroid belt or something. What was that? Was that all the wrong? I think it was all the wrong.
Fantastic. Let's keep going. Bring up that text. Here we go. Are you guys ready for this? Boom. Next one. Yep. That's good. Yeah. And what happens? So a lot of these slaves and many of these prostitutes and children, Pides, just children, strays, right? This is a big problem in antiquity.
Stray children is a big thing. And the Romans are like, stop doing that to those stray children. And the early Christians are like, uh-uh, gotta catch us. So it was a game they played. A lot of arresting, a lot of imprisonment and stuff like that, because the Christian church is that slave trading operation from the beginning.
So, okay, let's take a look. Take a look at who else ends up there. The kids. Oh, and this is terrible. The Napier. The Napier. Oh, no. The Napier show up. That's like saying somebody who's, you know, doesn't have all their faculties, can't make any sort of decisions on their own, very malleable.
These are the people that, um, uh, uh, Celsus, was it Celsus? Yeah, was complained about. I think it was complained about when he said these are the kind of people that the Christians target, right?
Um, so these are unfortunate, right? A lot of these kids are abandoned and they end up, again, look, they're flocking to Philip and his magic. It's, you know, uh, yeah, yeah. And notice that it explicitly states that they are children.
That they are children, right? Okay. Let's see what happens, Philip. Show us your drugs. We're still going to see him transform a boy into a girl. He does that. He does that. Saint Philip, we love you. We love you, Philip.
Okay. Let's go to the next text. Let's go.
Boom, boom, boom, boom. Yeah. Okay. And so what did they do? They got mad at this point. Okay. I'm just, I'm showing you what's happening to Philip. Okay. And it's kind of, yeah, I'm enjoying the parts I enjoy.
So give me a break. The crowd has had enough. The crowd has had enough of Philip and his drugs and they take him captive and they lead him to the place. I'm translating to the place of where they're going to judge him in order that they may whip him, right?
Lacerate him, right? Get him the mastic with that whip and the crowd, the crowd shouts out, bind his hands and feet so we can beat him. They end up taking him and fixing him to the wall.
It's very, no, no. If you delight in such things, if you delight, did I lose, did I lose the thing there? Here. If you delight, if you delight in Saint Philip, hung upside down and chained, being beaten with a whip and at one point they consider bleeding him.
Why are they going to plead Philip? Because these, these are the people who follow. They call them the serpents and they follow. It's a culture. It's an ethnicity and they follow the dragon queen and they want Philip's blood to give to her to consume.
They want to give her, her, his blood to drink, to drink. Do you know why Philip's blood is so important? If you, if you read that, you'll, it'll pass you over and you won't understand why it's important.
That guy's blood is so full of drugs. It's so full of drugs. He can make the seeing blind and the blind see with just a fumigation.
Oh my God. Okay. Let's watch this. Oh, and by the way, tonight I also have, I know it's getting late. Neil, it's going to, another 15 minutes. Let's, because I've got something good for you tonight, the dragon communion, the dragon communion.
I want you guys to see this. You guys didn't know about the Christian dragon communion, did you? You guys are all sitting there and you're being bombarded with all of this YouTube, all of these different shows that you can watch.
Nobody's going to give you this. I'm giving you the Greek text, showing it to you. Just going to speak it out. And we're going to see something nobody else has seen.
The dragon communion. When you raise the dragon, lift up that dragon.
Moses, not a word. Not a word.
Next source, please. Let's go to the next one. Fantastic. We're almost there. Look at this. Yeah, don't. Don't. This is a prohibition here, people. This is a prohibition. Yeah, don't blind us with your magic.
That's somebody I just wanted you to see. They know his magaea, whatever that pharmacosis is doing. It's causing people problems. Yeah.
This is a public service that they're doing with Philip, hanging them upside down. It's a public service. Yeah, I'm telling you, everybody knows he's a follower of Jesus, right?
So what is that? What does that imply? Yeah, there's a connection between the name of Jesus and the activities of the lace days. And those of you who say, let me do Wabba. No, it doesn't.
Okay, let's go. I love it, man. If you're going to do it, let's go all the way, guys. Show them the next text. This is fantastic.
Look, so these men, you know, they serve this echidna, this viper goddess, right? And she's the mother of the serpents. She's the mother of the serpents. Next one, please. Mother of the serpents.
Next one, what happens now? He says, hey, Miriam, who is Miriamne? Who is that? It's Philip's twin sister that he transforms into a boy.
Philip has a twin sister? Yes. And he tells her here, he says, what? What? He says, change, change your feminine form. Change your feminine form and go about with Philip. Oh, my God, change your form. That's quite a thing he's talking about doing there.
This guy is nuts. Or these, these drugs are great. One of the two. Let's go. Keep going. Right? Are you surprised that the serpent can change the form from masculine to feminine? Are you surprised? Oh, my goodness, the dragon queen knows, baby.
That's why we're here. That's why we're here. You think they worshiped Lady Babylon for a reason, right? I'm going to show you the actual reason at the end. It's the last quote today. You're going to, you're second to last. You're going to love it. Okay, keep going. Thanks for hanging in there, Gnostic. Give me a little bit of time. I know you'd love it.
Look at this first line. Hey, Dave, Theo Clare. Here's another one. Theo Clare also does what she changes the arrangement, the cosmos, the cosmos. She changes that of her feminine nature into that. I'm translating of a man.
She metamorphosizes. Can you believe that? It's another one. Philip meets these people. And by the way, they're young. The one I'm about to show you. I'm going to show you one more. Right? They're children. Right? The one that he's about to change is the daughter of somebody who's there and she's doing something.
And let's go to it. Okay, so remember the venom. The venom's there. Keep going. Oh, God, it's a lovely path. I think they're all going to find it. Look, okay, ready? There's hidden stuff in here, people. Are you ready? You're going to love this. Yeah.
Yeah, so anyway, the Apostle of Christ, we went up to the region of Parthia and there he saw in a city the Apostle Peter, the Apostle of Jesus, and he's with some companions and he's also with some students and some women.
What kind of women? The kind of women who put on the genuineness of the man. Oh, goodness. The kind of women who put on the pistis. It's the word that you guys have heard over and over his faith.
A transformation. A transformation. Love it. Love it. And Neil would tell you, but he's been reading plenty. Plenty is talking about transformations of male to female and female to male. And how do you do this? And what is the nature of the drugs that are involved in doing this? Sounds very modern, doesn't it? Sounds very modern. Yes, fantastic. It is indeed.
Give me the next source. People are going to, I've got to give you the climax. Are we coming to the climax? Yeah, I think we're coming. I think we're coming up here. Okay. Um, yeah, when you're thinking about Jesus, the vampire Jesus that gets summoned by Philip, because he has that power, when you think about him, this is who he is.
He says, I am the son, S-U-M. I am the son, the God of righteousness. Yes. Yes. Yeah. And you're my raise. Oh, you almost had me, Jesus. You know, it got creepy in the end. Why don't you just leave it? I'm the son.
You're my raise. Okay. Wait a minute. This is one magus to another. Okay. Let those with ears to hear, hear. Go to the next one, Chewie, please. We're almost there. Only a couple of more. Look at this. Um, so what happens? This, uh, there's a young girl and she has an eye, long story short, she's got an eye infection of some sort. And it's very painful. And her daddy, who's some big wig, drives an ancient Tesla, probably, right?
Um, he, he's worried. He's worried because his daughter is coming to him and he's taking her, the doctor he's got, ones that worked for the local potentate, you know what I mean? And nothing's helping her. And she says, she says tonight, she says, I heard this guy, right? She said he's got drugs.
Um, the end of this is actually, is, uh, eh, who's on pharmaca? See the drugs there? This is him talking about the drugs that have been used already to try to heal her eye problem. And he asked, he says there, he says, what else is there that I can do? Right? What else can I possibly do for you? We're taking all the other doctors. What else can I do? And then bring the next text. And then she says in response, isn't this nice? It's a little episode of reality.
From the ancient world, you know, your, his daughter has an eye infection. It's not going away. And none of these idiot doctors can figure it out. So what does she say to him? She says, I know, dad. She says, I know that you have always labored on my behalf. She says now, the thing that I deem right, do it for me, please. Yeah.
Yeah. What I think, do it right. She said tonight, I have heard on this very night, I heard the voice of a doctor and he's a stranger. He's not from here. He talks different, talk, talk, talk, different. And he comes here. And what does he say? Um, he's preaching about drugs. He's announcing some great new drugs that he's got there. You got, he's sleeping over in your storage unit over there because they rented out this storage unit.
To the travelers. She said, I heard him talking. He knows these new drugs. He'll be able to heal me. I'll bet you. And next slide. Let's see what happens. Let's see what happens. Oh my God. She says, um, you know, of course he does, right?
But he's, um, she says, oh my goodness. She says, I'm begging you. She goes right to him, right? She says, I'm begging you, Phillip. You're the servant of God, right? Heal this pain that I got going on in my eyes. If you do, I will be your servant.
To Leia, I will be your servant to Leia. And right away you ask yourself, what is the servant to Leia? Is that something that is that some kind of slave that is perfect that has been through the right that has been finished, accomplished, done?
Hmm. That's odd. Let's see if to Leia has anything else. This is there. I've got a, did I manage to bring this one? Go to the next slide. Go to the next slide. Um, yeah, look, look what I dug up people. You're going to love this.
This is an antidote from Scribonius, a Roman. Where can you get this? You think your people are going to pull this up? They're not going to pull this up for you.
Any Bible scholar you've got who's saying, Oh, and they say just this, they don't know these texts. They don't do this work. They don't have the right to say things that are so patently wrong. Yes, look at this.
So this is the antidote of Martian, the physician, right? Um, yeah. And this thing is, look, this thing is called to Leia by the Greeks. See on the second line to Leia, there it is. And why is it called to Leia?
She said she's going to be a to Leia servant. What is to Leia to Leia to Leia to Leia? Bring it out to me.
It is an antidote. Okay. For those of you who've been watching this whole time and adding things up, it is an antidote, a servant antidote. I told you they're using the human body to produce drugs in rights that involve sex.
Yeah. Okay. She is entering into the position that Jesus took from all of his apostles. They are coming under the umbrella of the lay states who is going to run the business of their prostitution.
She is entering that institution with Philip. Fantastic. Where is she going to produce the antidote? How is she going to produce the antidote? Give me that next text. This is, okay, people, hold on. Hold on to your seat. No, below that. Hold on to your seat. Yeah. Yeah.
Oh, this is just, I'm sorry. It's the next one, Chewie. It's the next one. Let's just talk more about him as a pharmacist. Yeah. Yeah. Some people say he was a magician, blah, blah, blah. We know that already. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's keep going.
Oh, and where at this point in the game, they're at a house of a guy who had it was blind and they made him see again. And I'm just going to translate for you the last line.
Um, he came to see again through the twos matos of the woman who served them of the woman who was assigned a coluthal, the woman who was assigned who took in her slavery, who became the do loss.
Right. That slave is the one who is giving this thing. And it's the twos matos. Can we get that text one more time? I just want people so they don't, you know, I've been saying they use human body fluids in, right, in retu, right? And it, because it's all over the medicine, people, you can't get away from them in medicine.
So because it's not weird or unusual in the rights. Look at this. Look at what they're doing here. Look at the twos matos. What does that mean? Bring me up to the next.
Oops. That was a wrong. Take it down.
What does that mean? It can be translated from the verb to, which means exactly what it sounds a little ejaculation of fluid from the body and some sort or another. It doesn't have to be just from the mouth.
It can be any ejection of fluids, any production of fluids, ptuo, little ptuo, little spit out there. Yes. Yes. Coming from she who was entered in to the slavery. She who is the antidote.
When, when you ask yourself why Jesus is with a naked boy in a public park for a, when he gets arrested yelling, I'm not a child trafficker.
You have to realize that that child was a lot more than just an innocent victim. That child was a transformed factory for drug rights.
Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay. Now, Jesus and the naked boys, we're going to continue this theme with Neil now who is going to talk to you about the gospel of Philip.
Oh, and the dragon thing will have to wait on the great summoning of the dragon and the rights. We'll get to that. But now I want to bring Neil.
I just got a couple of texts that I'm going to throw in. I'll give it right back to you and you can finish off with that dragon.
And a couple of them are related. This is from the gospel of Peter. Coptic texts are attributed to Peter. Same guy, different language. This one, this first one's called God is a man eater.
And so this is the gospel of Peter is not really a gospel and like, like you're, like you're used to, it's a little, it's wisdom literature.
So it has little paragraphs with different titles and it's just all over the place back and forth. There is no like, it doesn't start in the beginning.
In the beginning, Mary gave birth. Nope. It just goes all over the place. Wisdom literature, sort of like a proverb. Well, yeah, proverbs.
Anyways, God is a man eater. So people are sacrificed to him. Whoa. This is the Christian shit right here. This is the real Christian shit. Listen to this.
Before humans were sacrificed, it was animals because those they were eaten by were not gods. Wait a minute.
Are you telling me that your God just wants to be sacrificed to humans and not animals?
What? This is like, before I go to the next one, thoughts on this one real quick. What do you think about this?
Yeah, the consumer. You know what? I've seen a band of women eat, eat a person, take him apart and eat him. So, yeah, no, this is, I would smell.
Yeah, exactly. No, it's part, it's why the Greeks are always walking around embarrassed about their past saying, well, we don't sacrifice human beings anymore anymore.
Right. Yeah. And then the Jews said the same thing about sacrificing there. Like, if you look at the Old Testament text, it says like, oh, they outlawed human sacrifice because of Abraham.
Like, they basically let you know like, before Abraham, this was all, this is all over the place, which is, you know, whatever.
And there's, there's texts from my porphyry about people in Canaan sacrificing humans to Saturn. And there's a lot of texts like that actually.
Anyways, I thought that was interesting because, oh, and there's another Christian group that butt heads with this group.
I think it's the Sethians. They didn't get along well because the Canites were pure vegetarians.
So they thought that Yahweh, this is these Canites were badasses. They were completely, completely against the grain.
They thought Yahweh, this God that wants human sacrifice, evil.
And they said, Jesus is the son of a different God, Sophia wisdom.
And they said that Yahweh is evil because of this.
And so they have different, they have different opinions on King was the good guy, Abel was the bad guy, such stuff like that.
Anyways, I'm going to keep going.
Next one, mystery is called this one says, I'm going to read it to my text. I came to the bottom.
This is called mystery, same Gospel of Philip, Coptic text translated in English.
It is good to speak of mystery, especially because the father of all joined with the Virgin who came down.
And on that day, a fire shone over him.
He came to the bridal chamber suit.
So on that very day, his body came into being.
And on the day he left the chamber with the splendor, you know that word is.
And what passed between the bride and the bride group through this force, Jesus did everything.
It is good for it is good for each of his students to go into the chamber and rest.
Get in there little boys, get in the bed, get in the bridal bed with Jesus.
You know what time it is.
It's time for the Christ thing.
Any thoughts on that one?
I think it's mainstream.
Worship with a great mother with the intimacy with the boy entering the bed with you.
I don't think the Christians can get away from their heritage.
And yeah, I would say, you know, again, we're right in the middle of the mystery religion.
So yeah, and you might be asking, Hey, wait a minute, there's no Christ in going on here.
What do you get? What are you just adding stuff?
Well, let's go to the next.
Let's go to the next one.
The superior superiority of chrism to baptism.
The chrism is superior to baptism for the word chrism.
We have been called Christians.
So it's not just about Jesus being a Christian.
It's about you being Christ that get it?
And surely not from the word baptism.
They're not Baptists.
That's a whole other bucket called all the way in Greece.
And maybe John was part of that movement.
We know about the origins of the Baptists.
It's not Judaism.
The Baptists were Bacchants living in Corinth, Ephesus, and a couple other locations.
And they were devotees of the goddess Cotus, K-O-T-Y-S.
Look it up for yourself.
Don't listen to me.
Look it up for yourself.
They were called Baptists.
And because of the chrism, Christ has his name.
The Father anointed the Son.
The Son anointed the messengers.
See, you get Christ too.
And the messengers anointed us.
Who has been anointed possesses everything.
Resurrection, light, cross, Holy Spirit.
That's that Desi demonia.
The Father gave him this in the bridal chamber.
There you go.
Christ in the bridal chamber.
Just like I just mentioned in the last passage, he merely accepted the gift.
You are the beloved.
You are the disciple of the, of the adept when you're an initiate in the mysteries.
You do, as they say, you are the young boy being initiated probably around 12 years old, usually.
Mithraics did this.
Christians did this.
This was the way it was.
The young boy gets anointed and initiated by an elder man.
You become his beloved.
You get Christed and then you pass it on to the next.
Every time, as soon as you become a vage and you're old enough to find your own boy to Christ, that's when it happens.
You initiate the next.
That's how it started off.
That's what the sources tell us.
The Father gave him in his bridal chamber.
He merely accepted the gift.
See how those, these, these two passages are linked together.
The one was about the bridal chamber.
And this one's about Christening.
So, and he gets in his bed with the splendor.
What does that mean?
Naked.
That's what that means.
So, I got one more text that I want to show.
And this one, I met, you mentioned ejaculation.
This is not from the Gospel of Philip, but it's also part of the same group of texts that came from the same area, Nagamadi and Coptic.
And it says, darkness ejaculates mind into the, let's read the first paragraph.
And when the darkness saw the womb, he made, he became unchast.
And when he had aroused the water, he rubbed the womb.
His mind dissolved down the depths of nature.
It mingled with the power of the bitterness of darkness.
And the womb's eye ruptured at the wickedness in order that she might not again bring forth the mind, the noose.
For it was seed of nature from the dark root.
Oh, one more sentence.
And when nature had taken to herself the mind by means of the dark power, every likeness took shape in her, in her.
And when the darkness had acquired the likeness of the mind and resembled the spirit.
So, I want to get your thoughts on this text.
What do you think about this?
I think it's gorgeous.
I think it's gorgeous.
And I think it's a perfect, it's a perfect lead up to that, which they pull out of that darkness.
When they're talking about that seed, why don't we talk about the seed of the dragon coming from the darkness, right?
People don't realize, and people are like, what, what are you guys talking about?
This is Christianity people.
This is the symbols that they're using.
And Neil, assuming your translator from that Coptic hit the symbols, right?
I mean, you know, just from, you know, somebody who doesn't do Coptic, those symbols that you're hitting are straight up mystery.
They're so perfectly meshed with the text that I'm about to show.
Neil, if you can stick around.
I'm excited for this because we have two texts that are attributed to Philip.
So we're thinking, is this a, you know how they have the Johanine collection?
They have the Pauline collection where we're today, we're looking at the Philippine collection.
So let's continue.
I like that.
I like that.
Okay.
What I'm about to show you is an actual right.
I'm not going to comment on it.
For those of you who have ears to hear, I want you to pay attention.
I want you to be focused.
But I'm not going to comment on them.
I'm just going to translate it because I think you just need this source.
I don't want any of my ideas going into it.
Chewy hit us with the first one, blow it up so that I can just begin.
All right.
Here we go.
I'm putting on my glasses and it came about when the apostles had gathered together with one another.
Of their company was Philip and Bartholomew and Mary Omne and the leopard and the goat, both of which talk.
They went around for five days.
And after the midnight prayers, they got up early and got on the road.
When behold, all of a sudden, a great dark wind blew upon them.
And from the darkness came upon the servants of God, the dragon, the greatest dragon who comes from the dark.
His back is black.
His belly burns like the coals of bronze in this in the oh shit.
What is that?
In the sparks, in the sparks of the fire.
His body is stretched out over a hundred cubits.
And a multitude of serpents and a multitude of the offspring of those serpents serve the dragon.
The entire place that we call the void quakes.
Next page.
When Philip saw all of this, he says to Bartholomew and to Mary Omne, right?
Hey guys, we have the need right now of the Savior.
Let us call to mind the great Oracle of Christ who sent us out and said and ready people.
Here's a quote of Jesus you've never heard.
Don't be afraid fear neither persecution nor the serpents of that place nor the dark dragon.
So Philip says, let's stand then.
Let's stand then as pillars rooted before the face of God.
And you know what we'll do?
We all of the power of the enemy will be stifled and their platform, their argument, their arrogance will fall.
Let us pray and let us purify the air in the cup.
There that darkness will be established and a cloud will rise.
Okay, wait a minute.
Okay, let's finish this.
Those of you who are watching the cult happen, let's finish it.
He's about to get really culty.
Forget about the talking leopard right now.
Forget about why Philip is walking around with a leopard and goat.
Right? Forget about the Bacchic influence.
Forget about all the Bacchic terminology that they're using.
Forget about the shouts and the drugs.
Let's see what happens to the dragon.
This is going to be weird, right?
Go ahead next.
Yeah.
And so what happens taking the cup and this is the cup of communion people taking the cup for each.
They prayed in this way.
Are you ready?
They're holding that thing up, right?
You're looking at the cup of communion.
This is the cup of Christ.
And what do they say to the cup of Christ?
You are the one who creates the all fire do.
You are the darkness of the bridle.
You are the one who bridles the mouth of the dragon.
You are the one who controls the dragon's anger.
You're the one who turns away all of the ill that my enemy would do against me.
You are the one who plunges the man into your own fire.
You're the one who guards the burrow.
You're the one who makes strong the coming out of the dragon.
You're the one who guards his appearance.
Come with us into this wilderness for we run through this world cycle by means of your will and command.
Oh my goodness.
Finally.
Finally.
Last one.
So Philip turns, right?
He goes through all these machinations.
He's doing this right.
He's been saying his magic phrase.
He's been using his drugs and now he turns and he says to Bart and to Mariam.
He says now stand up.
Wait what?
They were laying down the whole time.
He says get up now and raise up your hands with that sacred cup that we have fortified and now purify the air.
Use the sign of the cross.
Behold the glory and the power of God.
Behold the glory and the power of God.
Oh my goodness.
Inmediately what happened people?
Now we've been waiting for this moment.
Take it down for just one minute.
We've been waiting for this moment the whole time.
I told you guys they were using this right and what they would be doing with it.
The only thing you're doing in the mystery is you're bringing the lightning.
If you are the son of God, you are bathed in the lightning.
You are that power.
You are born anew.
This is the rebirth that Christianity promises and in it we have to find lightning.
Go ahead Chewie.
It is with that source.
Ready?
This is the last paragraph.
Immediately there came about something that was like fire lightning.
Lightning of fire.
Fire producing lightning that it consumes.
Let me continue translating.
What happens?
It blinded the dragon and what else?
The beasts that were in the dragon.
Wait a minute.
Are we talking about the antidote, the telea?
Are we talking about the dragon as the formula?
The dragon is that which contains the theria, the beasts in the book of the apocalypse.
They are using this exact same terminology.
They are taking their drugs there.
Let me finish it off and that's it.
I'm sorry to take so long tonight.
The apostles, what do the apostles do?
They averted their eyes.
They averted their eyes so that they wouldn't be able to see into that amazing place that was revealed in lightning.
That amazing place is the place that produces that sputum.
It is the place that produces that juice of the body that they call the water of life.
And it is there that one becomes blind.
Those serpents get that drug in their eyes.
We know that Porphyry talks about the use of venoms to create cause blindness.
And he talks about them as these potent drugs.
So what are we going to do?
What are we going to do here with our right that we're watching?
If you want to follow the communion and enter the lightning, you must become blind.
A child of the serpent, a child of a kidnap.
Now do you know why Jesus was sitting on the cross screaming for Sabakthon?
Because that one guy in the audience that was watching him as he was hanging there, dying.
That one guy in the audience said, oh, see?
As soon as he said, Sabakthon, that one guy said, I told you.
I told you the guy was the Satanist.
He casts out demons in the powers of the underworld.
I told you he was.
This is exactly what the craft of the lace days is meant to do.
You are meant to shadow within that Saturnian kingdom to perpetuate this abuse.
It's amazing.
It's amazing.
I'm going to let you fill in any questions, anxieties.
What do you think?
I think I might have found a kidnap right now.
Can we pull up the screen that I got?
Ready for this?
This is Taylor Swift at her concert.
It's never done to me.
I've had it.
I've had it to anyone, to anything.
I've had it to anyone.
It hits right when she screams the lightning scones.
There's like four other videos like this with Taylor Swift, like,
yo, is she the Christ?
Is she the Chosun one?
I'm just saying.
That is a base appeal, Neil.
To Tay Tay, right?
Right. Okay. She got your message there. Okay. She got she's got your message
That drag really puts context in what's going on in revelation now all of a sudden this text
Gives us the context of what's happened in revelation with the dragon
Yeah, the more cult terminology that you pick up and the more you see how the cult are operating
The more you can track it that way and it all of a sudden those things that you think are signs and wonders
That preachers preach about all the time and always coming up with the latest theory about who is the antichrist
None of that none of that stuff matters
It doesn't matter at all once you see the context of what's going on it locks in and it makes sense the authors of
What we call the apocalypse they didn't
They they didn't assemble something that was meant to drive us all nuts that we wouldn't understand
Right, they're not going to be able to talk outside of their natural sibling
Oracular, um expressions and that's what they're using it's it's the the apocalypse is all sibling
It's it's early earlier than john reprocessed by john in fact
Calces when calces is describing the christians
He says that he's he branches them out
He says the people that call themselves christians are among the first thing he says is
Sybalist then he says simonians
Then he names off uh mark heonites a couple other groups first thing he says though sybalist
So i'm like the sybalists are tied to the christians early on
Early on and everyone knew it
Calces is a prime example of giving you telling you that right away when he says the people that we call christians are these groups
And the first name he gives
Sybalist
So he talks a lot about that too
Not nice. That's good backup. What do you think about give me your opinion neil about the transformation?
He does this to three different women. Um, he transforms them into men. Do what do you think is the significance of that?
There's this idea of coming reborn and transformation metamorphosis
Ovid don't look look. Let's ovid apolaus
Bacchus all these texts that are called
Metamorphosis the story is you start off in this place
You go through your passion and then you come out
Metamorphosis that's the whole that's that's the tragedy of life
You know how nishi talks about the apollonian and dianesian
Combined is a tragedy. You can't have one without the other. That's like a yin and the yang dianesis the dark
Apollo the light they're like a yin yang
They have to the opposites of each other
Dianesis is catholic
Underworld dark vegetation moisture the underworld that pushes the moisture up
Apollo he's underworldly and apollo is heavenly. He's in the sky. He's a light bringer
He is the he's the light that goes down and those two together is the metamorphosis. It's the tragedy
So you have to go through that in your life. Everybody's supposed to go through that in a lifetime
That's a fulfilled life. That's a complete life
And it's a it's amazing that the orphics
Use the very same conceptions with the arrows of aeros
They're either gold or they're black and people are always at or psianic. They're described psianic
dark black something like that and um people always ask what's the difference between
those
Arrows and aphrodite because aphrodite is sometimes described as golden and sometimes is dark
Right and she loses those when she enters that dark morning. She becomes that queen of the underworld
So you see the very same thing that's going on between
Apollo and dianesis
It's some kind of physics that they're explaining about how the cosmos works. Yeah, it's gorgeous, neil
I mean it makes you kind of want to join one of these ancient cults. You know what I mean just the
Just to get access to if nothing else all the good scrolls, you know what I mean? Yeah, I understand it
I don't have anything like I get it. I understand these things like when I look at the ancient world and I see this culture
I'm like, wow make sense. That seems like like the elysianian mysteries. Okay, demeter and bacchus
vine and and
vine and
Grain right red and wine. There's two moisture dryness. They come together in the cup
You mentioned that cup that Eucharist you take the cup you die
You go through a psychedelic trip you die and then you have an orgy all night
You would go through this wild ecstatic experience to become a new person have this
Experience that you'll never forget by dawn. They would do it all night. This is what they describe the mysteries when you get initiated
All night long you are tripping on this chai kian
You're having these orgies you're going through it then they bring out the phallus
In this box as holy box and the hero funds you they're holding it and you are the initiate
Are the only person who's allowed to touch it you open the box
You bring out the phallus you touch it and then you put it back and then you say the magic words
I have taken from the box. I put back in the box
Then as dawn starts to rise up as this as the light bringer as lucifer starts to show up
You are supposed to go into a baptist go to the next room the telesterion
You take a bath sacred bath you get washed after you're washed you come out. It's dawn. It's daylight
You are reborn the people who went through this experience. We have testimonies
All of them all the testimonies are all saying I have no longer for your death. I am saved
I'm sell. I have salvation. They all experienced this thing
So whatever was going on in these mysteries was changing people's lives to the point where
For example, this is my next video. I'm about to release the next day or two about dian Isis
There was a guy from from uh india his name is zharmaris
He traveled all the way from india to go meet up with augustus as a
um messenger from king porus the indian king
He wanted to send delegates to offer a a hand and piece like we're gonna have peace the the romans and the indians
We'll order, you know, we there's no war between us blah blah blah blah blah
So he sends over this delegate zharmaris and zharmaris knew about the elosinium mysteries all the way in india
Dian Isis was so famous. He's worshiped everywhere. Everyone knows what dian Isis is he gets to Athens
He gets up with augustus. He go they go to elosinium mysteries
They open it up even though it's oddest season because it's augustus augustus can do stuff. He's the august one
He's the augustus. So they open it up. They let this guy get initiated. What does he do?
Right? This is gonna sound crazy, but I kind of in a weird way. I kind of like understand it
This guy got initiated went through that experience that I just explained
And then after in the next morning
jumped into a fire and killed himself
And then he wrote they wrote on his tombstone that he
Had nothing else in life that he needed to fulfill his he wanted to end his time as the brahmins do it says
Like there's a custom of the brahmins that when you are fulfilled you end your life
There's no point in you go on to the next
And he felt after being initiated into the rites of bach as a demeter. There was nothing else to be done
I want to end it
Wow, that's crazy. That's that's and that's in like tender. That's in like forward. I think four or five different sources
Uh, cassie as d.o. Says it nicolas of demascus a couple other people have this written in this in different ways
But it's it's well sourced that this happens. So he was with augustus and
Strangely enough that text tonight that I showed you from in the latin
That is a formula that the text says is taken from augustus
That he's the one who uses it right? He's using this really advanced formula
so yeah, it it's uh
It makes you wonder neal when when people are going through it and they're professional
Like upstanding, you know
Good people and intelligent people that you trust like sissaro
And they say that you've got to go through these rites because you you really aren't
Aware before you do
Yeah, you know who got you know the list of people who got i'll give you a short list of people who were initiated into the elizinian mysteries
um
julius caesar
Cleopatra marcus aurelius
Olympius queen the uh the mother of alexander the great alexander the great augustus
I mean, that's just a short list of like the one some of the most famous people in world history
Plato
Socrates all those people in Athens they all did this this was a you had to or else who were you if you didn't get it initiated
They all did this it was a way of purging the people
It was a way of somehow keeping that democracy going and I know it predates it
But it does something for the people
There's something in that purge that changes your perspective
That kind of I don't know is it freeing?
You know is that what it is essentially it just frees your mind because it allows you to experience
What's beyond that point of death? What's before that point of birth?
you know
The stuff is the fact that
They have constructed and when you talk about elusis elus they didn't just sit down one day and say
Oh my god, we're gonna figure out this right, right? That's that's been handed down that bronze age mystery, right?
You know had such a profound effect on the world. Yeah, you know
It lasted
Past like they don't even know how old it is. They know there's sources of it in the mycenaean period
So it's at least bronze age at least
But it lasts all the way to 500 ad they couldn't get rid of even the even like the worst christian emperors that try to shut it down
Couldn't it took a long time that it was the last thing to go out of all the pagan religions the last thing
Because nobody wanted to lose it. Everybody loved it
And so you know what they did to end it
Christians aren't you gotta hand it to them. They're kind of smart or slick
They co-opted it. They created a a new story about st. Demetrius
Demetrius means demeter's son
and he was a he was an initiate in elusinian mysteries in the fifth century and
they said that
Demeter came to him in a dream and told him that they needed to convert elusinian to
an orthodox church and this is what your decree is and so they
Obviously, you know converted it into a church that church is still there today. It's an orthodox church
But they had to go that route to get rid of it
They couldn't just do it out of popular vote or people not wanting it. They had to do it in a slick way
So that's that guy's name is st. Demetrius to this day. It was kind of like rewriting history
I mean if you have a st. Orpheus they have a st. Orpheus orpheus. He's holding a liar in his hand. It's orpheus
But it's st. Orpheus. They had to co-op these things. They were too popular
They're too big for people to just cancel. You know what I mean?
Yeah, christianity is built on orphic physics. So there's no there's no way that you couldn't deny the connection
I love that. All right. I'm gonna give you the last comment throwing anything you want and thanks for coming tonight, neil
Well, I just want to say sabba kathon
In fact hails satan
Sabba kathon sabba kathon. We have a translation or no. All right fine. I'll see
I was hoping we can go. Oh, there it goes. It's on the bottom
It's sabba kathon sabba kathon
Now you know what we're saying. Nice jerry. Thanks. All right. Hail satan guys
Now the fences that fence us falling
Maybe we could walk together again
Just maybe we could walk together again
