Welcome back to Lady Babylon.
We have a great, great appearance tonight from somebody who's going to help us bridge
the east and the west so that we can see the big picture of the Bronze Age right.
And we are going to talk about the reason that we've come, Lady Babylon.
Here are the caskets in that child cherishing maiden chamber in which was the son of earth,
in which the girl nursed yourself begotten offspring with her manly breast.
Lift up your axe that played the midwife to save the people of your Athena with your
delivering hatchet.
We've come tonight to a place that we're going to look at something that was proposed
to Macmillan Press as the follow up.
What I did was we all know about the Ionian and the Attic and the Koine and the Doric.
We know about these different dialects of Greek.
But I found that Orphic Greek, in the existence of the thing called Orphic Greek, I want to
show you tonight a translation of chapter 17 of John's Apocalypse using the Orphic
box.
So this is the language applied to the chapter to give you a seat in the place of those with
ears to hear.
I want to read you this little introduction that I wrote for this book.
Cracking the first code in the early 19th century, Otto Kern, an exceptionally nerdy German scholar
of classical Greek, discovered a hidden language buried in the writings of ancient cultists.
He called this language the Vox Orphica, an arrogantly erudite Latin phrase, meaning
the Orphic voice, because it was originally created by the cult followers of the famous
Thracian poet Orpheus.
The voice is older than democracy itself.
It predates Jesus and his apostles by almost a millennium.
And it possesses its own uniquely compelling linguistic structure.
Within its complex web of intentional concealment, the voice communicates a clandestine system
of rituals and compound drug recipes that form the foundation of the world's very first
mystery cult.
The voice was the linguistic scaffolding upon which the apostle John knowingly constructed
his apocalypse.
I'm going to read you the Orphic Vox over Revelation 17.
We can look, if we have any time, we can look at the Greek at the end, but I want to give
you now the seat.
So now what we've done is it's very simple.
We've just taken the terms that are used by the Orphic Vox and we're translating them
for you and anything that has an association with that word, bringing it out.
It's true translation so that you can hear what the actual text is saying.
Yeah, we are breaking those seals, which the Trohiscoi are little pills, suppositories,
the seals that you put rectally, you apply rectally, so that you may enter the wilderness.
Okay.
All right.
Are you with me?
Okay.
So, yeah.
Here we go.
Here's the translation.
Yes, warning to the reader.
I'm sorry.
I had to officially do that.
Here we go.
One of the seven trans-dimensional messengers spoke to me.
One of the seven guardians who possesses the seven alchemical distillation devices, pay
attention, I will show you the condemnation of the great whore who manipulates the powers
of the dimensional waves with whom the terrestrial rulers have had intercourse.
These earth rulers, inebriated by consuming her own sexual fluids, have filled the terrestrial
dimension with her demonic inspiration.
With that, the messenger transported me by means of possession to the place of vision,
where I comprehended a woman under the influence of a scarlet-colored potion, which provided
her with future sources of blasphemy.
The potion was compounded of seven venoms and 10 botanicals.
By means of her burning purple, this scarlet potion enabled her to carry the purity of
the stream of the muses, the precious voices of the oracular priestesses, and the jewels
of their pronouncements.
By means of her oracular voice, she dispensed to the terrestrial world in her fluids from
her vagina.
This prostitute commanded the accursed powers fated to overthrow God.
She stored the power in the form of a highly visible magic name, mystery.
She was the Persian queen, great leader of the magi, mother of sexual communion, possessor
of abominable, God-killing power that resides in earth-born elements.
She was made invulnerable by the famous drugs called the blood of the holy and the blood
of the one who screams Jesus.
I was awestruck by this great woman when the messenger, the one of seven, said, Why are
you so impressed with the woman in the vision?
I will expose her mystery, acts, and the scarlet potion that gives her power.
I will expose the potion with its seven venoms and its ten botanical ingredients.
The potion you see, which was once made by her, is now no longer made, but will return
in the future when it is brought again into existence out of the emptiness of her body.
It will destroy God.
The demons who exercise power in the earthly realm will be thunderstruck when the potion
and its use return to this realm.
These are the powers not found in the book of life.
The magic book of Eve, whereby Eve's drug recipes were first established.
Sophia, Ewa, herself, will teach the wise.
The seven serpent venoms were discovered on seven mountains where Lady Mystery once practiced.
The powers behind them are of seven types.
Five of them have disappeared.
One remains and one will be found in the future.
When this one is discovered, the potion itself will temporarily return.
And the potion which once existed and is no longer present, this very potion, is the eighth
communion and is the product of the seven venoms and will bring destruction of God.
The ten botanical ingredients you see are ten powers not yet manifested, but they will
combine under the essence of the seven in one hour when combined in the potion.
And together the botanicals and the venoms have one goal, one effect, one power.
These ingredients will act as antidotes to the ram and the ram will master them because
they will make him the master inebriant and the leading power of powers.
And these ingredients are carefully chosen.
And the one messenger of seven said to me, the pharmaceutical waves that you see commanded
by the whore, these have been preserved by various ethnicities, sex, nations, and languages.
And the ten sources you see along with the potion, these induce the whore to produce
an orgiastic rite and make her to become inspired.
They will consume her body and make her burn with fire.
For the goddess constructs the potions by putting into their essential nature the ability
to accomplish a single purpose from a plurality of ingredients.
She gives the potion the ability to bring her own song to completion.
And the woman whom you see, she is a great city, the home of the magi.
And she gives power to the potion by mixing the powers of the earth.
So if you apply the Orphic terminology straight over to the translation, that's what you get.
And the pharmaceutical depths of this, you can't understate them.
So I just want you to realize that this image of the individual who is the one who bears
the cup, the one who brings the cup in analog for doing this analogia, the one that brings
the cup is the source of that communion.
And this is, you say, what communion is this?
Where does this come from?
I just wanted to read you.
It's the communion of the virgin.
Yeah, really, it's all this form is a communion of the virgin.
With her virgin milk, she lets streams of statutes gush into the baby's lips and drops
into the girl's mouth, the sweet produce of the attic bee.
That we're talking about the virgin herself, the source of that milk, that nourishing milk.
We're talking about astraya, astraya with the sigmatal row or str root, right?
She is the sister of the dawn bringer.
She is the sister of the dawn bringer.
So again, remember the images, we're working with the images.
So in this old, what's called an old generation of deity, within this old generation of deity,
we have laid out for us the plan of how to perform the mystery, how to bring it back.
So to bring us to the place where we enter death and then are resurrected from it.
The whole object of these mysteries is that interaction with the other dimension that
is around you.
We have a goal.
We get together with the Athenians, right?
And they're celebrating the mysteries.
The goal of the Elisthenian mysteries is to raise the Korah.
It's to visualize the Korah, to be able to interact on the level of the Korah.
It's a coming together mystery operation is a coming together of those two dimensions.
Yeah.
And that's why Phanis, the visible is the God of the process.
Yeah.
All from the throne of Satan is where we is where we get this, right?
So I'm reading to you just a couple of little varieties, little snippets.
I want to take you quickly then to the Greek text.
I want to show you a couple of things with Greek here.
17, 1, let's go to 17, 1.
Yeah.
Is that 17?
Yeah.
There we go.
This is just the Nessiel Allen text for those of you who are interested in Nessiel Allen
text.
I'm just going to read through and I'm going to give you a flavor for some of the terminology,
some of the images that are being thrown around.
So we've landed squarely tonight at the feet of Lady Babylon and who she is.
We're discovering who she is.
We're looking from the throne of Satan, right?
From that necromanic source, that necromanic origin.
So let's just look quick at a little bit of the, a little bit of the Greek.
Yeah.
So you have one of these guys, one of these messengers comes forth, right?
And these messengers are a very distinct entity in this realm of the vision of which you are
attempting to induce in the death and resurrection, right?
The death and resurrection brought back, right?
This is, this is good.
You know, does anybody smell Bacchus, right?
Yeah.
We have to have a sacrifice right up front.
Good.
Take him out.
Dress up, Penteas.
Take him out and watch him pull his head off.
Why?
Pergation.
Pergation.
Remember, this is the environment we're working in.
We're working in.
Okay.
I just want to say a couple of things here.
What does this angel have?
He has the fialas and some people, you know, they'll just try to describe this, you know,
some kind of offering dish, right?
And it's, it's a kind of a saucer, but the ones that I've seen, they describe being of
iron.
Yes.
They describe being of iron.
Isn't that interesting?
That gives us a little place on the radar there to, you know, land our ship.
But we see these in mystical rights.
The women in the audience might understand this better or have a better, because it's
a theme.
It's a thing for people with breasts, but they're used as coverings by Bacchus.
So menads put these things on their chests in war situations, right?
Because they're very combative.
They're very, um, they don't let you get away with anything.
Yeah.
And if they catch you, they'll chop your head off, right?
And get a group of these ecstatic ecstatic.
Did you notice that Lady Babylon right away enters?
This is about entering the ecstasy.
Right.
Yeah.
So you were smelling, we're smelling, uh, we're smelling that old Orphic religion, right?
From which the Orphic Vox comes.
So the Orphic Vox, it's just the images, the Orphic voice is just the images that are coming
through the right, through the right.
Um, um, one beautiful thing is that name at the end of the episodes that we have that
we flash in front of you there, um, people, people watch Game of Thrones and Lord of the
Rings and things like that.
Um, there is something way cooler, right?
Than that.
They have their languages that they build in these shows and it's great, you know, it's
fantastic.
It's like working backwards with the linguistics, right?
Gorgeous applause for the creativity, right?
But we have a language that is real and that exists and its name is dragon tongue.
It's supposed to be a language of a higher being, yeah, a higher being.
Some of these, they call them sons of God and these guys, new drugs, they knew drugs,
they've walked around teaching people drugs.
Yeah.
Anyway, sons of God, right?
So yeah, yeah, uh, yeah, yeah.
So the beast, everybody talks about the beast.
So when we take the seal, the torojisco, we stick it in our backside and we're entering
that stage of vision and we meet the messengers, right?
The seven, this is what you'll do.
The PGM has directions just like this for entering the visionary state where one can
interact then with the beings that are around you and you'll be surprised, you'll be surprised
how much of the New Testament particularly makes such good sense with this background.
It's fantastic.
The, the magic, you know, there's a reason they're running around talking about the throne
of Satan and, and a reason they're running around saying that Lucifer or Satan is the
king of this sits on the throne here.
This is his world.
You know what I mean?
He runs things, right?
So yeah, my kingdom is not of this earth, right?
It's not the earthly kingdom that he's talking about.
People don't understand that because they don't look back.
They look through the fairy tale.
It's presented to you by pastors and by priests.
Yeah.
And I taught at seminary and know what I'm talking about.
It's not the fairy tale world that you think.
So this beast, Therion is a poisonous beast, right?
The strike of this thing.
Somebody mentioned Scythians before we go on.
Somebody mentioned Scythians and the train is chasing me tonight.
Somebody mentioned Scythians and I just wanted to pull up a definition here for you.
One of the short, the very short one, one of the first ones.
Go ahead.
Let's see.
Put that up there.
Oh, no.
That's not.
No.
Got down to that one.
Fantastic.
Yeah.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Right.
And they'll argue that they'll argue the etymology makes it from somewhere else to suit whatever
Indo-European scheme that they're linguistically trying to build, right, without knowing.
And people say the Scythians just popped into existence in the early Iron Age.
And we have nothing about them from being around.
Well, don't worry.
They didn't just pop into being through a black hole.
There were migrations and they were involved up with the Aryans.
Yeah.
And the Khmerians, who most people don't study anymore, but this is good.
These guys were from Ukraine.
This is beautiful.
I mean, beautiful.
The peoples are gorgeous.
But remember Bronze Age.
We're in that Bronze Age.
Fantastic.
Okay.
Here's what I'd like to do.
I'd like to point out a couple of other things about this Lady Babylon and what she's doing
in this apocalypse.
Yeah.
And I want to go to, oh, this should be 17, the last number three that I sent.
Yeah.
This should be, yep.
Yeah.
The waters, which you see, right?
Which the porne, which the prostitute sits on, right?
Which the one who's administering the right sexually, right?
The one, her, with her pornea and her cup of pornea, yeah, yeah.
What are these waters?
They're a laoi, an okloi, right, an ethnei, yeah, and glossae.
They're peoples.
They're sects.
They're tongues.
So she is preserved within the water, right?
She sits over it.
She uses that power.
Yeah.
Isn't that lovely?
Reflections.
Yeah.
Reflections in the water.
Yeah.
You got to put yourself on exactly into their little boots, right?
Okay.
You know, anyway, yeah, the Thedeon is there, right?
And there's all sorts of things happening.
And there's gumnae.
Just, I just want you to notice the nakedness and the, all of a sudden, the orgia kick in.
The rites kick in.
And all of a sudden we're sitting at an ancient mystery rite involving the sexual act of ejaculation
of a substance which will bring you through death to life.
Yeah.
And then you'll know and you'll understand.
You'll have ears to hear and you'll know and you'll understand.
And then you can live your life because before you were not plugged in, right?
You were not plugged in.
You have been in death.
It's him again.
It's you.
Shut up, yo.
Yep.
Yep.
Okay.
So, I would like to drop us there, but I want you to be contemplating.
I want you to be contemplating the musterion, yeah, this rite.
This action, yeah, and the prophecy of its completion and return and return.
If that happens, the promise is of a Saturnian return, yeah, a Saturnian return, the golden
age.
Yeah.
And somehow we get to, we have to go through a means of bringing, a quantum means of bringing
in an entity, making them visible.
This is the work of pagan mystery cult.
Yes.
Yes.
Hail Satan.
Rob is going to talk for a couple of minutes here about some questions and we also have
Darren and Darren who did this for me today and I'm very happy.
I hope he does it just the same for you.
He's going to bridge the gap between the East and the West.
He is going to bring the mystery to you through the East.
And I love it.
I love it.
It just, and we're thankful that he can be here to do that.
And you know, it's good on you, Darren, that you bought your bachelor's degree in religious
histories focusing on the East.
Good for you.
Nice.
Now, here it is.
That's all of that degree.
Rob, what do you have on questions and whatnot?
Yeah.
Hi.
Well, tell you what, that's another one we can pause and replay and pause and replay
and write down notes and go to the sources and replay and pause.
So thank you, Armin.
You want a response from Wednesday and from the last week and we wanted a response from
the community.
We asked for a response and we certainly got one, a fantastic response from the community.
You've seen the comments.
You've seen the comments on YouTube.
We've got Carrie Ann Chrysler.
She loves your dedication to revealing the mystery.
She appreciates all you are and thinks the muse chose well.
We've got Ali Rowan joining the Discord, thought the study was exquisite and sharing tons of
relevant material.
We've got Nancy Devine, who thanks you as always.
She's found Byron via Dishare and I want to hear more about the poetic feet, please,
if you don't mind.
We've got Dio Genousos.
Thinks the texts are rude and disrespectful and is not the source material.
Go your own way.
Craneum Maximus affirms the cost of selling religious knowledge.
We've got Sobaq, Lord of the Four Corners, who will always be supportive and thinks you
are one of the best to learn the mysteries from.
Todd B knows you know.
You responded with a comment about some armed minads.
We had quite a few comments from, excuse me if I'm ruining the name, Iraqis Kazant Edis,
has just come up with some fantastic responses.
The mythology with the dances and I just advise anyone to go on and have a look at them comments
and there's quite a lot to go into.
There's a lot of knowledge there.
So that's YouTube.
That's from YouTube.
We've also got Discord, the community responding on Discord.
We've got Wretch who's dropping obscene amounts of knowledge and information on there.
People are digging into that.
Loving it.
Really, really, really loving it.
We've got Rat King who's exploring the Palladium amongst many, many other interesting posts
that are always going on.
We've got Perio who's revealing initiation through a Japanese anime.
Which is fascinating.
Fascinating stuff.
Absolutely.
We've got Old Boy who's wanted to explore the significance of the headless man.
We've got a question about the headless man and the significance of that.
Many, many, many more good things.
And I'm going to cut myself short there and introduce DARREN to come forward.
They just takes me up to, I know him as Lord Snappy, but it takes me up to DARREN.
That does it.
We all know.
We all know the name and we all know the comments and he's been such a massive help in the
Discord and on this channel.
Such a great help and so much appreciated.
And I just like pass the floor over to DARREN, the floor is yours.
Thank you so much, Rob.
I appreciate that a lot.
So yeah, this is really great, really happy to be a part of this community and it's been
really inspiring for me.
I'm coming at this from, as Amon was saying, an Eastern perspective.
I have a degree in religious studies from Carleton University with a specialization
on tantric shyvism in India.
And what I wanted to do for us tonight is, and what I did for Amon earlier today was
I gave a brief presentation examining three different myths that kind of show how shyvite
tantrica is directly related to the Orphic mysteries and that they are dealing with the
same mystery.
There's the same processes and ideas that are going on.
So the first myth that we're going to examine that I want us to go over is the myth of projopity.
So also, just before I go any deeper, if anyone wants any sources or anything from me, they
can just message me on Discord.
As was said, I'm Lord Snappy.
I'm not going to cite anything here.
But yeah, so we're going to go directly to the Rig Veda, to the myth of projopity.
And projopity within the Rig Veda, he is the primordial sort of male figure.
And this is sort of a creation cosmogony that's very similar to the Orphic cosmogony.
In the beginning, in the Rig Veda, they described the cosmic waters as a sort of eternal plane
of chaos.
And at the same time, the only other thing that is present is tapas.
Tapas is austerity or sort of violence and attack upon the self.
It's also in the later tradition specifically within Tantra.
It's described as desire or shakti.
So shakti comes upon the waters and it commits an act of violence.
It commits tapas.
And through this tapas upon the water, there is a heating that occurs and that produces
the cosmic egg.
I'm just going to quote the Rig Veda now.
That egg, the one, arose through the power of heat.
Desire came upon that one in the beginning.
That was the first seed of mind.
And I don't think I'm making a big stretch seeing how this is related to the Orphic
cosmogony.
What next occurs is that the egg is existing in sort of this perfect state of eternal bliss.
But tapas is still there, okay?
This drive to self-austerity, to self-attack.
And this desire starts to influence and heat up the egg.
The egg then cracks and from the egg, we are given Lord Projopity.
Lord Projopity, the Lord of all creatures.
This is a bi-gendered God.
This is a multi-faced, multi-armed, multi-faceted God.
The representation of the entirety of all creation, the primordial one.
This is Faunus that we see in the Orphic tradition.
I don't think this is a stretch, okay?
And then when ends up happening with Faunus is again, we have this force, this tapas,
which in my conception I equate with the Ion.
This is our Saturn, right?
This tapas force is interacting with Projopity and it causes him to commit austerity, okay?
So he starts to attack his self.
And from this shedding, from this self-sacrifice, we get the arising of the Gods.
We get the unfolding of creation.
And this brings us to our second myth.
In the Rig Vedas, we also have the same being seen as the Purusha, the cosmic man, okay?
And we know that these beings are equated because the epithets are almost the exact
same and the language is similar.
So while a lot of scholars like to separate Purusha and Projopity, in my conception, they
are one and the same.
They're both interrelated, they're just two separate understandings of the same being
that come to us in the Rig Veda.
So again, within the Rig Veda, we have this Purusha.
This Purusha is suffering tapas.
He is doing tapas to himself.
He sacrifices himself and through that sacrifice, the universe is created.
We are given all of the Gods.
We are given the entirety of all of the planets, of all of creation.
It comes out of this personal sacrifice.
So most people, when they're familiar with what we call the early Hindu tradition, the
central focus is this idea of the sacrifice.
And this Purusha myth is at the heart of this.
The mystery of the Vedic religion is all about recreating this primordial sacrifice of the
cosmic person, dividing them and separating them into us.
So the right takes on two forms.
By engaging in this sacrificial right, we are, in one hand, participating in the act
of creation.
We are perpetuating creation forward.
By sacrificing our horses, by emblazing them in the fire, and by sending them up into Godhead.
We are pushing creation ever forward.
We are making the sun rise, okay?
That is part of it.
But there's also the secondary part, the Soma, the secret mystery, okay?
What is the function of this second sacrifice, of this Soma?
When we ingest this Soma and we go back to this part, we are still reliving the sacrifice,
but this is a sacrifice of return.
This is about going back to the original Prajapati, returning to the cosmic egg, returning
to the Hirangarbha, the golden embryo, back to our primordial state.
And when we go there, we get to exist in the one.
This is that eternal return.
This gives us the overcoming.
This is our savior aspect of it.
This is what connects us again to the Orphic mystery.
Now I just want to take a step further into history.
Now we're going to go deep into the Tantra, and we're going to examine the tantric understanding
of a very common myth, the myth of the Samudramantam.
The Samudramantam occurs in the Mahabharata, and this literally means the churning of the
ocean of its milk, okay?
This is a myth that's all about describing how the gods gain their immortality, how they're
able to create the amrita, the amrit, which gives them, or the ambrosia as we see in the
Orphic myths, that gives them their immortality.
And what happens is basically there's this sage who is shamed by the god Indra by accident.
And the sage in his anger curses the gods and revokes their power from the devas.
And the devas are unable to defend themselves, and they start to lose continuously in wars
to the ashuras.
And the ashuras, they're sort of our titans.
The leader of the ashuras is Shiva.
This is our Dionysus figure, okay?
This is our reborn god, okay?
So the ashuras are in control of the world.
The devas do not like this.
They decide to approach the neutral party, the one who's in between, the preserver.
They go to Vishnu, and they ask Vishnu, what do we do?
We've lost our power.
The entire order has been upset.
We're no longer in control of the ashuras are.
How do we restore this?
And Vishnu says, you're thinking about this wrong.
You need to work with them.
You need to come together to do something greater.
And he tells them of the amrit.
And he says, if you work together, you can gain immortality and you can produce the milk
from the ocean, okay?
Now what we have just understood earlier in the Rig Vedic hymns and in the Rig Vedic
myths is that the original figure is this prejopity, this Purusha, this cosmic person
who is sacrificed and becomes the literal embodiment of the physical universe.
He is the earth and the oceans.
What are we churning?
We are churning the Purusha, okay?
What do the gods and the, well, sorry, what did the devas and the asuras do?
They band together and they take the tallest mountain, they take Mount Meru, then Vishnu
transforms himself into Kumara, the primordial turtle, and they stick these together and
they create our lingam, our unity of the phallus and the vagina, the linga and the yoni,
all right?
And they use this to churn the ocean for its milk, okay?
They take the snake, the cosmic world snake, the suki, and they use him as a rope.
And through rubbing in friction with the Mount Meru, they cause this friction to churn and
produce the omrits.
But while they're doing this physical task of churning, of phallating, okay, the suki
spews poison and this poison is going to destroy both the devas and the asuras.
But Shiva rises to the occasion and he decides to sacrifice himself.
He drinks up all of the suki's poison, he consumes it all and it is about to kill him.
But just before it kills him, the goddess appears as Parvati, his divine lover.
And she stops the poison in his neck.
And in the Tantric tradition, they interpret this sexually, okay?
What is going on here is a sexual process of transmutation.
The poison goes throughout Shiva's body and it permanently turns him blue.
And then what is described is that Parvati and Shiva produce the soma.
They draw down the moon and they add that to the churning of the oceans to help create
the omrits.
And at this, the gods are also throwing in countless herbs and spices and other psychoactive
elements as they are churning this milk and they are creating the samarits, right?
Yeah, let me, let me say, let me just step in.
First of all, that's gorgeous.
That's absolutely gorgeous.
And I want you to know that as I'm sitting there listening to your description, nice
use of text as well, fantastic.
As I'm sitting there listening to your description, my mind is in cyprus with the cult of Aphrodite
celebrating the death and resurrection of Adonis.
Yeah, and exactly the description, even down to the very concept of what waters are and
how the life comes from them.
It's just, it boggles my mind that the Bronze Age, that the Bronze Age was able to produce
such brilliance, such, such incredible, sophisticated, religion, medicine, culture.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Is there anything else you wanted to say?
Yeah, I just wanted to end this with my own little personal thing is that when I was,
I got to travel to India with my professor and my professor was an expert, as I said
on Tantrika and he was working specifically with the Aghoris and the Aghoris are a certain
sect and one of the ways in which they do this thing, they have this symbol here is
the Lingam in the Yoni United.
This is a lingam and this is representative of the churning of the ocean of the milk.
What they do in this particular cult is they have the Guru called the Nagasadhu who ingests
the poison of the viper and then he offers his seminal fluids to his followers as a ritual
offering.
You know, so they are tripping on his fluids and this is happening to this day in one sect
of Indian shyness.
Yeah, that's all I wanted to add.
What do you do?
What do you do with that contraption?
Bring a thing back up to the camera, look close and show me how you use it.
Okay.
So this, I use this, this is a central focus of the, this is representative of Shiva and
Shakti United together in one to produce the omrits and this is used as the idle focus.
You're supposed to offer milk to this, you douse this in milk.
This here, this part here is the Rudraksha.
That is literally the eye of Shiva or the Rudraksha bead which you meditate upon.
It's the seed of life.
This is again, very Saturnian Shiva seen as using us as seeds to produce trees and doing
that to us.
And so yeah, this is an idle focus that's supposed to be representative of that myth,
the Samudramantam.
And when we focus on this, we remember this and we're supposed to use this to do this
alchemical process in ourselves.
So the Tantricas also see this as a process that's occurring within yourself.
The spine is Visuki, the snake that's unfolding.
You are have, when you have an orgasm, you are shooting this energy up through your body
that's expounding out through your third eye and this is your enlightenment experience.
This is, it's about, it's, this image is showing you and telling you the myth in symbolic form
and you're supposed to worship and engage with it so that you subconsciously and physically
recreate the mystery and you do this as a discipline daily.
So you can bring that milk with that device.
Let me just throw, just throw in for us on your back wall there.
Just tell us in a couple of sentences, who is that?
Okay.
So on the back wall, that's Kali.
So Kali, she is the Shakti.
She is the divine energy.
She is the fire.
She is the one, she is Shiva in its active force.
So in my conception, this is Lady Babylon, right?
This is that force of destruction of the fire.
So she in that particular painting there is in an action of destroying the universe and
Shiva throws himself at her feet to beg her to stop and they're paused like this and she's
actually crying out in shame because she's like, I'm just about to kill my husband because
I can't calm the F down.
But yeah, she's a powerful, powerful figure.
That is the goddess.
That's the, you know, beautiful.
I wanted, I wanted you to bring that up because I wanted to bring it back to astraya, right?
And I wanted us to see that generation of dawn and what they were doing with the mystery.
Darren and I had a nice discussion today, which came, which came first, who is contributing
what and they'll, they can shoot those arrows as much as they want and try to figure it
out.
Right?
And who knows?
Maybe, maybe they will.
We talked about the founder too.
I want to find out who it was, who perfected it and was able to use their own body.
And of course, everybody in my, in my audience knows that, that I think that the drugs, if
you trace the drugs back, you go right back to Colchis with Medea and she's the one initiating
this burning.
Right?
And, but East and West, oh, it's great.
Look, they're joined like that.
Isn't that gorgeous?
Yeah.
Rob, Rob, comments, final comments, Rob.
Well, that was fantastic.
Thank you very much, Darren.
Thank you.
Thank you.
It really was very descriptive.
I was lost.
I was gone in there.
Thank you.
No final comments from me.
Apart from thank you.
Thank you to all the community and everyone for commenting and putting your posts out there.
The fantastic issue.
We've got a community that's growing and we're going to do, do a lot to try and accommodate
it.
And Rob, you're still as, as chief Mason of the crown.
You are still chasing down all the, all the regal connections there and the, the history
of your people with the right, right?
Pretty soon we're going to hear a presentation.
Rob's going to talk to us about the same individual within the same mystery through his own people's
soil.
Yeah.
And maybe some, I don't know, maybe you'll go over to the Saxons and pull up, pull up
one of their, you know, images, uh, one of their, one of their linguistic images of the
great STR queen.
Yeah.
Something like that.
But Rob, Rob is working on that.
I've got, remember we're detectives here and we're just tracking down where this thing
is coming from at the garden of guest 70.
And I wanted everybody to know that you, um, I'm having people on the show, right?
I say show on satanic initiations, not a show.
And I've got people coming on, but the rule is you have to, to maintain the integrity
of the process.
Um, I'm using the same ancient practice, right?
The Scythians did this.
It's why the, you can, you can say to Scythians something is to shave your head, right?
That guy's doing the Scythian thing.
He's got himself shaved.
Um, we'll have Chris Bennett in the future come and talk to us about those Scythians.
What they're up to and, uh, with their esterion, but in order to come on, you have to, in
order to be interviewed within this space, you have to shave your head just like they
did in antiquity.
You have to shave your head, right?
And if you, if you don't see the purpose yet, if you don't see the death and rebirth
process, um, call up Apuleus book 11 and watch how he prepares for the initiations.
Watch and you'll, you'll pick up on key terms and you're having ears to hear now.
So you'll pick those up and see how he's using the magic.
If you don't want to shave your head, I'm, I'm, uh, talking with, uh, Dr.
Rigo Yoso about coming on and talking to us about virgin birth because we need to address
the virgin birth, right?
It's part of the whole, part of the, the whole mystery.
So, um, she, uh, she can, uh, uh, there's an option as there is in the worship of Aphrodite
and she'll understand this.
If you don't want to shave your head, you must present yourself publicly for the rights of
Aphrodite.
There are two peoples, right?
There's those who mourn and shave their heads and there are those who don't mourn and keep
their hair.
And the only time that we keep our hair is when a Donus has been resurrected and then it's
you're well within your, you're well within your rights.
So if you honor Aphrodite, um, great.
But otherwise shave your head and mourn, mourn the death of the God.
That ice, right?
For ears, for those of you with ears to hear.
Hey, uh, great, uh, great, beautiful.
Darren, thank you so much.
Thank you so much.
Now my mind is blown and I'm going to have to go sit somewhere and contemplate, just
kind of catch up and I will go to the discord, uh, briefly because I'm just, I'm overwhelmed.
I'm just overwhelmed.
You guys are, everybody out there is doing all the questions and discussion.
Hey, you guys are like a school.
This is the future, right?
This is, this is the university of the future.
Uh, yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Absolutely.
Well, anything, everybody, can I get a Hail Satan from everybody?
Yeah, a Hail Satan.
Yeah.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
