And the energy that's touched me
And now I am no longer the same
Oh, we touched me
Oh, we touched me
And what a joy to flood my soul
Something I've been under
And now I know
We touched me
And made me whole
Oh, God, welcome back to Lady Babylon
We're gonna bring in the apocalypse with what we've got tonight. I just gotta tell you it's good stuff. It's good stuff
I love it and thank you everybody for coming tonight. I truly do appreciate it. I take your time seriously
And we try to make things the strongest that we can make them now for us
The largest class of ancient Greek is almond you the largest global class of ancient Greek is almond you if you're starting out now get
To those lessons there at the end listen to the dude in black
And start growing your brain with mother Greek mother Greek. Oh God love it fantastic
Those sessions we have laboratories people you don't realize we're the largest ancient Greek course in the history of humanity
In the history of humanity people classical philology just skyrocketed just skyrocketed
Let me say something quickly to the people at Harvard to the people at Yale to the people at Penn to the people at Berkeley
We beat you we beat you hundreds of people hundreds class of hundreds for ancient Greek
You know why because we are bringing the apocalypse we are bringing it. Oh God it's been so beautiful the last few days
I just want you to be able to partake Satanic congregation in the beauty tonight. Oh God
Thank you for coming everybody there. Thank you for coming and visit visit the folks the language lab so that you can have your Greek strength and
Oh God love it you wash those at your pace to it's perfect for you and nobody pays a dime. Why does nobody pay a dime?
Nobody stop trying to don't if it's associated with me and you end up paying that's not good. That's not good devil doesn't like that
You got to keep standards you got to keep standards when you're judging the world
Look at yourselves people look at yourselves. It's gorgeous tonight. We're gonna all of us. We're gonna look in that mirror
I was with the muse I was with the muse give it to me. I said give it to me
We've got the Cyclops we've got the Cyclops tonight. We're gonna look right into that Cyclops giant round vision
Circular circular vision the bra with the circular vision and tonight we're bringing back classical mystery
Are you ready? I'm gonna stand and you're gonna stand with me Satanic congregation
You're gonna stand with me and why am I standing here because I'm standing with Athena. I'm standing with the Virgin
Tonight our name is Odysseus. We call this project Odysseus. Don't listen a lot of people are out there
Don't listen to him my god people keep a straight and narrow reason baby right always will just fall back on reason
Fall right back on her. She loves you. She loves you. Oh god. We're gonna go with Athena because Odysseus
His travel companion is goddess
Now now Athena tonight is who we're looking at and we're gonna stare into that tyrant's eyes again
I want us to go ahead and hit it chewy light speed. Let's go
Boom boom tonight people we have right off from you. This is the chorus. Where am I taking you? Oh god. Did I forget?
I did I did excuse me. I'm sorry people just you can leave that up if you want
Harvard Princeton Yale all you people that's it that you had your opportunity
You had the light and it went out shame on you shame on you. This is your judgment. Oh god give it to get Yale Harvard Princeton
Princeton
Princeton you idiots gave up your ancient Greek program could you not attract anybody to your stupidity?
Is that what it was? Oh?
Shame on you shame on you for calling yourself guardians of classical philology
Servants of mother Greek shame on you
Tonight we bring lots of shame
Shame it's not ours. It's yours. We're just highlighting it
Okay, what's the passage we've got? Oh god people wanted me to read a little bit of Horos
Macaros this a we odd say huh?
People looking at third word on the first line Eve is there Eve is there. Do you see her a we odd say
Hey, we odd say and let me hear that diagram of the invisible six six six. Let me hear it a we odd say
Fortunate is the person who can enter into the Bacchic revel with those flowing streams of wine
Making that religious celebration great
And what does he do?
He has his beloved
His beloved one
Person male
His beloved buddy
Who's got that flower of?
Gorgeousity
And it's all over him dripping from him. That's the dude that's happy. He's got golden locks in his hair
He's you know nice. He's go. What's he putting there? He Christ himself?
He Christ himself people seriously. They're talking about Christing themselves. He Christ himself
Oh, you have got it you have got it
Alright, that's a good one. You have got it. Where did I take us tonight? Where's our first anchor point? It's right here
Performing the Bacchic right and I'm gonna take you a place to a place
Everybody I'm gonna transport you tonight. Yeah, it's a field trip night. I'm gonna transport you tonight
To a place
That you were afraid could possibly exist. This is a place where we do not celebrate Bacchus
Are you ready? We're going there. Okay. Get ready. Give me the next one. Next to our system. Nope. We're done
Give me the next boom and well, wait, who is this? I'm bringing up Paul. I just had a chorus of Greeks
I just had a chorus of Greeks and now I'm bringing up Paul. Yes. This is in the 2nd epistle of Corinthians
Yeah, he says we have a treasure
Encased in these clay pots
What's that treasure Paul
It's the Rupert Boley
It's the hyperbole. Yeah, it's the excess of the power that belongs to God not to us
Okay
Okay, I hear it. I hear it coming. Are we gonna summon that Cyclops? We're gonna get there. Thank you Paul
Paul, can you tell me I have a question for Paul the Apostle Paul? Have you ever been drug involved in drug rights?
Drug rights Paul drug rights that involve sexual relations
Have you ever Paul the Apostle been involved in secret rights?
Then that are well, let's say self-stimulatory
Plus the eating of the of the seed that is produced from such
Fruitful acts are you involved Paul?
Tell me here's the answer bring it up to show me answer what Paul says. This is from Paul people say show it to me
Let's read to him. Oh
La
La
La
What did he say? What did he say? He said look
We have to turn away from and renounce
Those hidden rights that were so
shameful
Take it down you didn't know when you came in I the Paul the Apostle had already confessed
To being involved in these rights. You didn't know it
Right, you just read this stuff. We've got to take the Bible back
We've got to take it back people
We've got to go into those schools and we've got to teach the Bible to people
Wouldn't that be lovely devil would love that
Devil would love that. He's like, you know what? You know what the fall of humanity is?
It's smoking their own crap
Yeah, yeah, that's what we got to make them do
Make them sit in their own feces
Isn't that smart? I was like, that's nice. Give me the next one hit it chewy. Watch this people
What what are these shameful things that they're talking about people doing? Remember last week?
We saw Jesus Christ
With Mary Magdalene and he was like, come on. Let's go up into them
You know, let's go somewhere where we can't be seen basically and he took around up into his hills and
Next thing, you know, he's he's self-pleasuring in front of her and then telling her quick
We got to eat this both or we're not gonna live
Those are the acts of the right and
Look what we've got here my nod on ice
Krugian, what is the ice Krugian my great students now? It is self-pleasuring and
Who's doing this to mean ads?
You mean those crazy women those slaves that just drop their
They drop their junk and walk off into the mountains next next thing, you know, you're hearing drums and stuff a lot of shouting
You mean there too and this of course they are it's the bucket, right?
I'm gonna show you a world where that is not accepted. Give me the next one
Paul says we got a we got a stem at Paul was deep man. He was deep because he knew what the group did
Yeah, lots of people did there's lots of these next week, we're gonna talk about
Apollonius, Diana, and I know a lot of people have been throwing Apollonius at me. Oh, don't worry
Philosophers weights us wonderful Greek sources. Have you ever heard of these with respect to the mystery? No
Because you people
Let the theologians
Come to the fore you let them take over
What happened not satanic congregation can't come here Paul tell me something else what is Paul you want to hear the grossest thing I've ever heard
This is truly the grossest
Greek
Out there what does Paul say that we got to do we got to take Jesus's necrosis
Into our body
It's in his body the life
The life is in the body we got to take it do you understand the rights now if Jesus Christ
We're standing in front of you children
You would have to consider
eating his body
That is the necrosis that is in us. That's what Paul says
Are you Jesus Christ Jesus Christ?
what
Can you taste that communion from last week? It's got
When you look at your actual past
It becomes a lot more human
When you take the theologians out of the history
Yeah, yeah, by the way, we're gonna abolish the education department
Nice job. That's what future scientists tell me they were like, how come you did that? I was like, I don't know they're idiots
Okay, right abolish education. That's a great idea. Let's get rid of it all burn all those books
Let's go back to square one
boom
Uncivilized people these are the people who got you uncivilized
Yes, the unclassical sources here 2nd Corinthians 4-8 Dane
Oh God, okay. Now listen, he's gonna go on now. Paul. Tell us tell us since you we know you're involved in these sick rights
Right. I mean come on dude. I am not gonna do that
I don't care if Jesus Christ himself
Appears to me and says you want some communion and then he starts as starts the show
I don't care what he's got in his hand. Would you would you let me just ask you you Christians
Who have been going to the communion for so long?
Aren't you gonna feel silly?
When you get there for the big communion and he pulls it out
Aren't you gonna feel silly?
I'll tell you I'm gonna be that one guy that stands up. I'm like, all right
You know, okay. I get it. I
Get it. I'll just be going
Yes, yes
The joke it ends up is apocalyptically on the monists
The monists bring the fire of destruction to themselves
This is the Bacchic initiation
This is why they don't want it. They don't want to see who they are
So they run around and they consider that everybody else around them has a delusional
Syndrome in their brain and that's why their craziness is actually
normalcy
That's what you get people just like that. Those are monists
They are in a state of frenzy. Isn't that gorgeous?
Isn't that gorgeous? They're in a state of frenzy
Do you know what that is it is the opposite of liberty
It is the opposite of Bacchus. Are you seeing it now? Let's all go to Aphrodite everybody
Back on the ship. We're going to Aphrodite Paul. Tell us then Paul you visionary freak
Tell us. What do you see in your rights when the hoo-ha comes?
We see the things that aren't seen
Yeah, yeah, the things that are seen are just chance
incident
The things that aren't seen
So is your ionic. Okay, so you're seeing ionic things you guys eat the magic seed
Right, everybody's living ionic
Everybody has ionic life. You want ionic life? Not if I have to eat that. I don't want you on a ionic life. Oh
God
Let's go the next one. Mmm. Boom. Where are we now now? We're going back to Moses
same right
Same vocabulary because nobody looks at the Septuagint because people have been doing a song and dance for 2,000 years
Don't look over there. We have this for you
Because they're doing that
We don't look at the Greek it's a shame it's a shame it is
terribly
terribly disingenuous
Yes, love it shame. It's another thing. She doesn't like another thing. She doesn't like
Lying my god, man
You think the devil has to lie in his kingdom
No, that's what it's marked by. It's marked by that hard cold reality
Yeah, face your reality
Ladies and gentlemen, I love it. I love it. Okay, we're getting in give me this one quick
We got to get him with this last one with Moses. Look at this people
We're with Moses and what is Moses do he kick keeps putting a hood?
He keeps putting a hood on you can't see his face
Right, they don't want to see what are they? What is Moses?
No, you didn't know that did you you didn't know Moses walks around with a friggin?
Vale a man veil on his head
So you couldn't see his face and you want to know what what's wrong? Is he shy?
Has he got something what's he got he's got the glory all over it
What
He's got the glory on it
Remember this is the time that
When you and I
When you and I would want to be lovers
Right, we pray
We men pray
To the god, yeah, oh
Jehovah
Subba off and why do we do that so that we can find our beloveds?
this is
Our right and you are eating the body
You're eating the body your servants of the body
Give me the next one
No, this is it get keep it here. What what's for the sake?
So what is he hiding his face for people, right? Look at the last four words taught that loss to
Cartargo menu
Right, it's hiding it for the sake and people will see the tell us and you'll know. Oh
This is what we call initiates an initiation
Into the secret rights, right?
right the initiation of
that
Abolition
Cartargo menu
the
Initiation of the abolition. This is the death
within you that takes place when you take of his body and
Moses is covering his face. So you won't see it
He is using what's he got on his face? Everybody knows now in Satanic congregation
You mean Moses had that base paint and on top of that he was put in the purple in his eyes. Yep
Yep
Do you know what that does?
Hallucination and delirium
You know those are the places you go
Moses is doing it just in great third century fashion very Hellenistic of him
It's very Hellenistic. Good job. Give the next one. Give the next one. You mean is this a
Can you know, can everybody get involved in this right? What's going on man? I want to see more of it. Okay. Tell us Paul
death
In a gate high
Death works in us to bring us alive
To raise us up
Do you hear it's my offer to you now if I had this for you
Would you do it?
well part of my reasoning is
Death works in us those of us who will be giving you the body
Yeah, those of us who will be master bar a
Yes, those of us who will be self-pleasuring for the body that you will eat
We're gonna do it
so that
That will bring you life
Zoe isn't a nice a wadzo a wadzo, right?
Where's Eve?
They say that they you know what Jesus said
Or you know the text says about Jesus. I should say the text says about Jesus that when he was getting ready to pleasure himself
He took her out of his side
He took her out of his side. Do you know that's an expression?
That's an expression for the performance of the right. You want your a what?
Didn't you know this is a sexual
Natural drug-filled frenzied, right? Didn't you know that watch out end up dead?
Yeah
Fantastic, you know the people of antiquity who were pushing the drugs all those late Bronze Age
witches
Right right up to the Queen herself
Right because we don't have King. We don't need a King
This is Lady Babylon
right Paul
understands the rights and is involved and at one point in his life has to
renounce them
You know when Jesus Christ was arrested with a naked boy in a public park
Screamin a lot of trafficker
Right, it's not because he was denying that he was the only trafficker
Okay
Watch the chemicals. Do we have a doctor in this place? Give me the next one. Give me the next one
You know what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna bring up a doctor here just because you guys said that this is actually from exodus
And yeah, what did the sons of Israel see?
Well, they didn't see the prosopone
Of god, but they did see the prosopone of mose sales
But we who mose sales that sounds like museus it does and it is
from museus or moses
Right, they did see his face
and he was
Glorified
Show it to me give the next one. He was glorified. What are you telling me? Did I take it out? Oh, I did I took it out
Damn it. Go to the sorry go to the go to the last one. He was glorified. No this one
Oh one more
Zonk. Yep. There we go. No problem
Uh, what happens what happens the sons of Israel saw the face of moses that he was glorified, baby
He had that whim
on his face
And what happened he put a veil on
He put a covering on some kind of hood something you couldn't see his face to cover his face, right?
until
He came into that dude who was in the
tent
That dude who was up on the mountain
That dude who was around that bush that burned
that voice
until he was around him
and
Why did he do that because they were having a
Syllogy
Now again, this is the mist. This is the mastery of ancient Greek. He was having a syllogy. What's the syllogy?
You know what that means when you and your beloved exchange those words
When you exchange those words
Give me the next one. Give me the next one. We'll get back to that one
Um, and what happens what happens?
Um, the this dude who ends up with moses in these various circumstances is called the kurios
And he's the one who talks to people and he's like
net
We really screwed it up now. It's
Uh, we got to throw him out of the garden, right because they're like us
They're like us
Yes, okay. This is him kurios. This is the lord and how does he come to moses?
He comes to him in the clouds
He comes to him in the clouds. Do you understand?
He comes to them in the clouds and he says what does he say?
He calls upon his name. That's what you can hear coming out of the smoke
He goes the dude
covers his face
goes into the
Goes into the enclosure goes up on the mountain to his private spot
You see the smoke
And the next thing you know, he's screaming
He's screaming
He's talking to him
That's what he's doing. He's talking to him. Do you hear that that boy had to be with jesus in that park
And I had to these are the rites that they're performing all of the fairy tale history that you thought was history
all of the
All of the theological hu ha it just took you completely off track
Right, they don't even know that hebrew has vowels
series, who are these people?
Oh my god sloppy and unprofessional
Give me the next give me the next one. Um, let's call in a here's a oh here's a good one
Okay, people listen. What's gonna happen between moses and god?
Right, eventually. So here we are in their little time moses has his fail off
Do you see the smoke all around us right and what happens moses says hey god?
Show me yourself, baby
Yeah, and he says, uh, well god says well, you know, I can come around here. I can come around you
Right. I'm superior
Right to you. But what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna take that superior position and I'm gonna show you my doxa
You're gonna show me your doxa. Yeah, yeah, give me I think I have the next
True, I think it did maybe I did there it is give that to me. You're gonna show me your doxa. What is that?
It's a fancy
It's a vision you got vision on your face brah
You got vision on your face and you're having hallucinations
Look at this. Did you think listen?
Everybody out there. Leave that up there. Everybody out there. He was talking about oh, it's the glory of
Hashim. Oh, here he comes. Hashim. Oh
There he is
no, no, no
No, no, no
This is not what the text says you have obscured
The reality of your own history
Looking to your own history. What is this hallucination produced by look at that last source there alexander traillies
alexander traillies Byzantine the most famous Byzantine physician
Right and what does alexander traillies say give me give me bring him right up come on alex come on
Yeah, that's it. Come on alex. Tell me about something fun people. Look at this. Nobody looks at this stuff
Nobody you notice it's in greek. This thing's out translated at least i've never seen one
Right and here it is. What's that title peri frenitidos?
peri frenitidos
concerning
problems with your
brain
You're gonna cause you frenitis baby next thing, you know, you're gonna have all these kind of problems
Running around he says i'm gonna tell you what are the mechanical problems with frenitis how to restore the balances
i'm gonna show you all of this and then he goes on to talk about some different forms of mania
Mania and he goes on to talk about melancholia depression. How do you get this depression?
Treated what do you do? That's what the Byzantine physicians are doing and give me the next one
And what what are they doing it with guess why they're doing it with drugs?
Look here. He's using conan
He's he's using
The one that killed. Oh, which was the one that killed socrates
Hemlock, here's the hemlock and here's the high oscimus. So we've got this detourer there
We're inducing that mania, right and we got a little bit of anesthesia going or what else are they drinking? Oh pu
Oh look people
He's just he just used the three main drugs that we've been talking about them using for the sake of altering their minds
I got news for you world
They just weren't they weren't just using drugs and antiquity. They weren't using them like pros
Making us look like total morons
total
all of this stuff natural
right
right
God give me that snake. I want to milk that snake
Okay, give me some more
Um, what are they doing? I've been telling
Everybody to look at the theriac
Here it is again
Byzantine physician
He's talking about i'm using it. It's an antidotone. Let me say it. So people in the greek tain
theriacane
Antidotone and and what you do is you just run that together, right? You try to run that thing
Tain theriacane
Oh, isn't that gorgeous?
Um, it's the theriac. It's an antidote. It's an antidote. What kind of antidotes are they using?
Would you be surprised? You know what i'm going to bring you
Get it. What kind of they bring you this one's for headache
This one's for pains in your head
And what do you do when you got pains in your head? Look at the first line
Five words in chrisma
You have a christ you have a chrism. Yes, you do. Yes, you do. And what do you do it?
Mmm
You what you epi create it you epichrist it you moron
You epichrist that remember in the book of revelation it says, you know, it's hilarious
I have to take some pleasure in this
I have to take this some pleasure in this you remember the scholar who sat there and said
This version of christing is preposterous
preposterous
Oh, of course, it's wrong
In his own holy writings, it's used you you christ the eyes
So that you can treat whatever it is you're trying to treat or induce whatever state that you're trying to induce
And jesus christ says you got no place with me unless you've been epichrist it
In your eyes he adds in your eyes in your eyes
You do not see christianity or judaism for what they are
They are preserved in the text
Yeah
It's like amber
Love it caught their dna. Give me a little more doctor a little more doctor. What else?
What is oh, this is just things that look there's a category of things that are applied to the body, right?
And I just wanted you to see chrismata, right chrismata. Yay
Yay christing. Yay. Yay
And what am I gonna produce with these christings fantasy? I
I'm gonna see things. Yeah, you're darn straight. You're gonna see things and how am I gonna do that with your christings bonehead?
Marvelous last one last one from the good doc doctor. Tell me something fun
A doctor says look
I'm gonna tell you about narcotics
And giving narcotics and the power the epangelia the gospel of their power
They bring sleep
Are you ready? They bring us then they
Do you know that death that paul is talking about?
That is a drug induced death
Yes
Okay, now I promised you the clown tonight. I promised you I promised you the
The
Cyclops and I'm gonna pull the Cyclops out
The Cyclops is gonna make america giant again. He's gonna do it. He's gonna do it for our sakes
He's doing everything for our sakes, right?
In antiquity, there was a dude named Euripides and he wrote a play
About a Cyclops about a dude with circular vision
It's a sad story
for the Cyclops
the guy
Who is in the story is a guy named odysseus
He is the son of booty man
And he has been held captive now
You know high-ranking
Pirate held captain held captive by some ladies. Oh by holy calypso and he swears by calypso, baby
Right, so, you know, she's big and by sir. See
He's always followed around by what what follows those who honor freedom and liberty
What follows them
The virgin follows them
Right the one who shakes the spear follows them
Where where do they always end up going they always end up going places to destroy tyrants
she
That virgin that gave us democracy
She
Is the power of freedom
She is the one to bring down the Cyclops, right to bring down the Cyclops
How's she gonna do it with her with her gorgeous gorgeous brain?
Oh god, oh god, she leads him the whole time everywhere. He goes everywhere. He goes. He's such a fortunate dude
In the middle of all of these disasters
She's with him
She who brought democracy. It's fantastic. It's fantastic
Give me the let's start to look at the Cyclops. So you're everybody's right to play
You're everybody's right to play about a Cyclops and he's a Cyclops. He's a guclopos
Anosiu
Anosiu Anosiu that's an alpha privative
Right. Oh
It's something that is not lawful
Not lawful the Cyclops is outside of the law
When you give the Cyclops the circle-visioned man when you give him immunity
to justice
You end up with a tyrant
Yeah, the Cyclops that's how he's described
He is outside of the reaches of justice. Have you noticed how the stride
Of the Cyclops picks up and is happy his gait is better as soon as you take away
justice
Yeah, as soon as you take away justice
Okay, that is the Cyclops people we are here to be purified
You are here to be cleansed
As the people of Athens who followed the virgin as they were cleansed in the rites of Bacchus
Okay, we're gonna go somewhere where they didn't have the rites of Bacchus where the Cyclops wouldn't permit that
Fantastic
Fantastic, let's go to the next one. Oh god. Here we go
Nope. Yeah, thank you. That's in the wrong
That's in the wrong. Yep. Um, okay. I forgot to throw in the mirror christ
This is a new christ that you we haven't seen
This is a new christ that we haven't seen but I want you guys to see it now and um, you know what moron is
Right, you know, it's a compound and you know, it's used in sexual practices, right? So the mirror christing is
Nothing unusual in antiquity. Everybody knows that is the fact that we don't is an is our fault
Okay, now give me the next one
All of this remember is to express
The hyperbolic nature of the power of the Cyclops
That excessive power
You and I are sitting in an environment where we are beginning to feel the static of excessive
power
Give me the next one
Come on out Cyclops. Tell us tell us a little bit something about yourself. Yeah, go ahead
Well, um, look people hit listen to the chorus for a minute in this place. There is no
Bromius. There is no Bacchus. There is no chorus
There are not people who walk around with a theorist beating the drums saying hallelujah. They're saying hallelujah. Yeah
The Bacchus invented hallelujah bonehead. What do you think that's for the Bacchus cries that ecstatic shout
Right. Love it. Love it. It goes way back. There. Um
There isn't any wine
Right gushing out. We're not in nissa
Right with the nymphs crying out Yacus Yacus
Right, so I can't sing right. We're not all going to Aphrodite
I'm not dancing with those white-footed
Bakken maidens
Oh
beloved lord
Bacchus
Where are you bra?
Where are you bra? I'm the one who worships with you
And um
You know what I got no more I got none of your filia
I got none of your love, baby
I got only the dry static air of tyrannical power
Let's watch what Odysseus does the chorus sings everybody knows
The chorus and that tragedy is the is the bridge between the performers and the audience
Right, they pick up the voice they resonate with the voice of the audience
You can feel the chorus as if you were one of them
That's why they're always like citizens of souls, you know some city
You know, it's always like the women who have been through blah blah blah
Right of the old men, right? It's always a
link
To you and I sitting in the audience, right? Maybe they got a next week
They got a bald chorus bunch of tattooed head freaks, right? Love it. Love it. Oh, I love it
Give me the give me the next one. I need to fly in
Go, okay, uh
Here we go people. Are you ready? Watch this? Oh god
Oh, yeah, okay, um
You poor people right now. What happens Odysseus and his some dudes that he's with
In a ship get stranded on this island like they do there's a storm, you know, this is not a good place
Right and they're they're here and they're looking for food. They run into polyfamous, but he's not there
The cyclops is not there. There's a dude there and the dude is Silenus
The dude is assisting
The cyclops who is the person who assists the cyclops
Ultimately the one who's looking to be eaten last
The one who's looking to be eaten last, but don't be fooled you will be
Do you serve?
Do you serve the servant of greed?
You'll be eaten last
Yeah, what's
Let's go. Let's go back to that quote. There's a couple of things I got to pick up there
Yeah, oh god, what kind of dude is polyfamous the name polyfamous by the way the name of cyclops
The name of the tyrant
Is the name of much fame
The name of much fame
And what does the name of much fame do? Look at that last line. He's an Andro Brota
He is a person eater a people eater
He's got a jaw that opens up in his gullet swallows people
Oh
He of much fame
He of much fame. It's what you wanted, isn't it? It's what you want in that tyrant
You resonate with that strength
You feel it
And the cruelty is just the edge. It's just the spice
It's just the spice
Let's go. Let's go. Oh my god. Give me the next one
So, um, what is the what is the now just so you you know check this to make sure it's correct
This tyrant
What is the tyrant who sees in that kook loss? What is that tyrant?
They are
inhospitable to people
Who are
unfortunate
They are inhospitable to those who come to their land
To those who have been shipwrecked in life
to the immigrant
That's literally what this says
oxenos
Xenos is that immigrant
All right now odysseus with his athena
He's gonna tell you there's laws that we follow. Give me the next one
Give me the next one anti immigrant guy
Right, so odysseus and sylinus start having a discussion
Right and odysseus says, hey, do you have the drink of bromious around here?
You know the flowing of the vine wine any sylinus is no way
No way we're we're gonna have wine around around the cyclops, right? Why because this place
This land that we have made great says sylinus
This land is achoron
This maga land is achoron. Yes, it is without song
It is without the chorus
Do you understand? Why do we have need of the ecstatic formula? We're not going to start a chorus
This is the place of the one power who will devour everyone. Give me the next one
Give me the next one. Oh god. I love this. Look at how the muse does this
Hey
Are these people odysseus and says well, are your people lovers of immigrants strangers?
Right. Are they the ones who are going to be supporting them?
Right and sylinus says, uh, not really. He says, you know what they say here
They say the flesh of those immigrants is the sweetest thing
It's so sweet to consume the flesh of those people who come to you for sanctuary
We have a statue here of a woman
A statue of a woman
They call her lady liberty and it says on that statue we welcome
The downtrodden
We welcome them
Do you know why we do that?
Because of this classical tradition
The tyrant is the enemy of everything that is our tradition
Yeah
Yeah
Do you feel odysseus? Do you understand his perspective now? Do you feel that you're in the cave?
That you're in the cave with the cyclops the only way to end it is to put out his eye
It's the only way
Freedom is what odysseus bought
All the while his little brain
Following his muse
Yeah
Fantastic hit me with the next one chew hit me with the next one. This is good
Material is fucking gorgeous. Oh, I'm sorry. Did I say that? Oh, I'm sorry satanic congregation shame on me
That requires a spanking. Come here almond. Come here almond. Put your note. Pull those down. There you go. There you go
No, just relax relax
Potty mouth
Children
my children
Don't don't be have such dirty speech elevate your speech
Silenus then says hey, um now listen. This is what the follower
Of the tyrant says and does are you ready? This is Silenus. He says hey, um, do you want to buy some merchandise?
How much gold do you want to buy it for because he's got food?
Right. It's like, hey, I could sell you something
I could sell you something. Do you know who follows around the tyrant a circus of sellers?
a circus of
Merchandisers from the top most investors to the bottom most t-shirt hawk and merchandisers
That's who follows tyranny
Isn't that easy? Didn't you wonder?
Didn't you wonder what that was a sign of? Have you noticed that there is no politics at all?
In searching out greed
There's no politics in that
That's
justice
That's justice somebody somebody proffered
Somebody proffered some kind of impeachment on the grounds. Did you see it this week impeachment on the grounds?
Of greed
That is pure pure ethereal
classical civilization
Somebody give that woman
Some kind of peplos and some kind of laurel wreath
Yeah, somebody give it to her
Love it. I love it. That is gorgeous. Oh god. I said it. I said it
Somebody
Give me the next one. Give the next one. What is this? I saw this crowd, right?
Right. Look, what's this crowd of people?
Says the cyclops when he finally catches up because salinas tries to sell him out, right?
Odysseus says no
Right, he's not here for that. He's got he's got wine and he's thinking I'm gonna poison
I'm gonna poison these people right because remember all the stuff he learned was Cersei
Right, that's the environment. He's living in and what does he say here?
What is polyphemus is polyphemus? He comes out mr. Fame comes out. He says, what are these pirates doing?
here
what are these pirates
Lace die any contrasting he says are they pirates or are there some kind of thieves?
All right, because they're different
So when you say Jesus was hung between thieves on the cross you are incorrect
He was hung between
traffickers
That's why they came out with the big weapons and that's why we have this this verse
Right, it's history people. It's not it's not
Magic go
Go are you ready?
um
Jesus right at that time Jesus said
to the people right
Why have you come out?
Against me like a lace stays with your big weapons your big clubs
Big swords how come you've come out against me like i'm a lace stays
All right, um, you don't do that to a thief
So the lie that has been perpetuated to you the narrative about Jesus. He was crucified
between two
Traffickers of humans
And in the middle sitting right there in the middle he was saying
I'm not one of these traffickers
And it's only because that naked kid it makes you wonder if that naked kid hadn't been there with jesus in the garden of guest 70
If the naked kid wasn't there with him
Would he have had to have died?
Would that crowd have been so angry?
Wouldn't it isn't it going to be surprising when you find out jesus christ was crucified because he was a pervert
Who was selling children?
Yeah
That's gonna surprise people
Wow here it comes. Did didn't you thank the whole
Taking her out of his side and then all we got to eat this and live
Didn't you think he was a pervert?
That's paul's thorn
That's paul's thorn
Don't knock it says paul. Give me the next one. Give me the next one
Boom and finally the chorus here
ride
Yeah, look the chorus or who are the chorus in this
Play the cyclops the chorus of the people who are standing back
They're the satyrs and they're standing back watching this happen. They watch sideliness try to sell
and the satyrs have just a little bit
of
Bacchic morality and what do they say? Look, we saw you sell. We saw you take advantage. You know, we're not lying
Right, we're not lying. Let daddy die if we're lying
You have done those strangers wrong by trying to sell them something
Do you hear it?
Okay, okay. Give me the next one. Here we go. Here we go. Um, look
Look
Yeah, yeah, I know you're not going to be able to digest this
right
but
We have laws
We have laws. This is you know Odysseus trying to explain
to the tyrant
How life is supposed to work
We have laws. He didn't understand that. He didn't care about laws
Do you think your tyrant cares about your laws and your statutes and the things that we all have to abide by?
Tyrant doesn't care
Right the followers of the tyrant. They don't care. They're getting eaten last
Yeah, but there are some satyrs out there and some of those satyrs
Right, some of those people who have the influence of Athena
Right the immortal virgin who brings us democracy
Some of those people say look man, we've got laws and you've got to abide by those laws
And one of them is when somebody washes the shore when somebody comes to your border
You got to give them zinnia
Protected by Zeus baby and you got a what you got to even clothe them you got to give them gifts and clothe them
Right, this is the just thing. This is how you're supposed to live
You're not supposed to Odysseus tell them you're not supposed to put people on spits
And consume them with your ravenous greedy jaws
Do you know who you are Silenus? Do you know who you are out there?
You who are making america giant again. Do you know who you are?
You're working for the cyclops and the cyclops is going to kill and eat
The men of Odysseus and he does
He kills them and eats them consumes them why because that's the price of being in the cave
With the man of great fame
Yeah
Yeah
That's the price
Are we going to put the covers on are we going to put the veils on?
Are we going to show exactly what's happening? We're going to show exactly what's happening
We're just going to pull out open the doors of the museum, baby
Right, these are the people who sat around and created democracy
Perhaps we should listen to them. Perhaps we should listen to them giving the next one quick
Oh boy, we lose it. We lost the tracking device. Here we go. Now listen to me says Odysseus is pay attention cyclops. Listen to me
You got to put away your margon
Of your nathan your jaws. What your jars your jaws margon go down. Show me what that is. It's the next one
Boom, what is that? Oh, it's something that is mad
Mad what kind of mad
When you jaw it's mad
Well, how's it mad? It's gluttonous
It's greedy
It's lewd
It's lustful. Do you hear how the cyclops talks? Do you hear how the tyrant talks? You'll always know the tyrant by their speech
They give themselves away
It's full of obfuscation lies
and corruption
greed
Stains your soul
with the stench
of ruin
Do we have that tattooed?
Do we have that tattooed guy somewhere with the black tattoos? Does he have we don't we're so somewhat chewy
See if you can resurrect that image people tell me what you think it's chewy. Well, yeah, okay here. Look. Oh, look at him
Look at him shameful tyrant with the writing all over himself. You know what those write those writings are
Those are writings from the blood of the slain the spits
Of flesh that we consume
Under the power of the cyclops
Those names are written all over
the tyrant
They're written all over
The cyclops is alive
The cyclops is alive
Do you know the biggest enemy of the tyrant? Yeah, go to the next one. You can leave that actually leave that
You can move one of them up. The biggest enemy of the tyrant
Is the virgin do you want to know why we walk with the virgin?
Why when we look upon that hill in Athens that great acropolis?
Do you know why it is that we see the temple of the virgin?
Because she
above all else
hates
tyrants
sick
Semper Taranis
Yeah, this is what every tyrant deserves
says
The great Minerva
This is what every tyrant deserves. You know what every tyrant deserves that she's talking about the tip of her spear
Do you see why in democratic Athens?
Why it is those of us who created democracy worship the way that we do
Fantastic. Give me a couple more and we're done. We're done. Whatever is next. Just go ahead and hit it. Oh
Yeah, here we go. Here we go. Do you want to see the mark of the cyclops?
They had a word for it in antiquity. Kerdos. Look at number two
The desire of gain anytime that you're looking
Anytime that you're looking for advantage. You're following the spirit of the cyclops
Now do you understand why the cyclops becomes so popular?
The cyclops attracts those who
Desire gain
I have your ultimate gain people. I've got ionic life
I've got eternal life
I've got land. I've got real estate and I've got power
I've got the ultimate gifts for you
And do you know where they go? They go to the tyrant because the tyrant is their pathway there
Yeah, give me the next one. Give me the next one. Look, I want to end with this
The cyclops says
Odysseus
What did you do? Who are you?
An Odysseus in the play says one of those people
It's coming back from the war and what is the cyclops? How does the cyclops respond the cyclops responds the exact same way
The exact same way as your tyrant
What a stupid waste
What a stupid waste
Americans who died in war are losers
and suckers
Now I know of one american who didn't die in a war. I know of one american who didn't die in a war
Yeah, sorry that one
And what did he do?
He sat in a prison camp for years while he was tortured even though he could leave because he was the son of an admiral
He stayed there
I met this man. I shook his hand
I talked to him we gabbed
The tyrant has no respect
For anything but acquisition
They have no respect for you who have shed your blood
My ancestors shed their blood
For this liberty that you and I enjoy
Give me the next one that one that we skipped
There we go
The cyclops wants to gain they want to gain something
But they don't want to sacrifice
They want to gain without sacrifice
You know finally let's end on the words of the let's end on the words of the cyclops, right?
What does the cyclops say in his defense?
They just don't know how great I am
They just don't know I am a god
They just don't know
For those of you
Who are sitting in your modest?
Trumpery
For those of you who have been sucked in
And who are sitting there looking at everybody on the outside thinking they are the deranged ones
Look into the mirror
You're about to eat flesh and drink blood
Thank you for coming tonight
Please
consider
Consider the cyclops
Hail Satan
Me or you
I never cease never cease to praise him
I'll shine on it to let it to roll
Oh, he touched me
Oh
He touched me
And why
This was my soul
Something happened
And now I know
He touched me and made me whole
Oh
