I've been thinking a lot about, actually for most of my life, about what does it mean to have a mind?
What is a mind?
Now of course, in English we can become, or even begin, very confused because of the way our language works.
Our language encourages us to believe that we possess things locally, so that for example, I have a brain.
Now that's a little bit silly because how can I have what I am?
I cannot have the kiss I give, but I can have a brain.
Actually that doesn't make too much sense.
Because my brain is everything.
The way the brain is is not, although it's physically, you know, discontiguous with the rest, it seems to be physically discontiguous with the rest of reality, it's not.
And in fact, not only is it not discontiguous, in other words, not only is it not disconnected from everything, it actually creates new ways for things to be connected.
Think about that carefully. That's a very different kind of presence in an environment.
You're not merely connected or connecting.
Your presence creates whole new ways for everything in that environment to become themselves, and that means you are the fulcrum of opportunity for that environment.
Your thoughts, ways of seeing and choices will decide everything.
You aren't a god, but you're the next best thing in terms of a biological environment.
You're about as close as it gets because just by showing up on the scene, you can change radically the roles of every living organism and all of those relationships that are thousands of billions of life years old.
They are in fact, unlike our common thoughts, they are older than the universe.
And so, that's not inside my head. I don't possess that.
But the brain that I possess in the nervous system and my flesh and the organs, even where I had to say, like, my mind is in my brain, which seems a very reasonable thing to say, I have to admit, absolutely reasonable.
But not necessarily as true as it looks, because first of all, my brain is my entire body.
It really is. There's no part of my body that isn't my brain.
We think of our brain as being in our heads, and it's true that the organ that we call the brain is in the skull.
And we say that it's connected to the rest of the body, but that's not true.
It's not connected because it's not distinct. It's not a part.
See, machines have parts, but humans don't, and so you can't possess a part.
Now, it can also seem that you could lose a part, because, for example, were some imaginary being that doesn't actually exist at all to lose some portion of its body that we don't even know the name of,
then we could say it no longer had a nameless body part thing that we don't know the name of, whatever that was.
It no longer had one, as if it had previously possessed one, but it didn't really possess what it was.
You don't possess what you are. The Earth doesn't possess a planet. See, that's the thing.
And similarly, we don't possess a brain, but our language inclines us to believe that we do, and it inclines us to believe lots of strange things.
For example, things that actually can't be true if you look at them with much clarity, we possess a self that, myself, is something I have.
I have to then defend and protect and sustain and examine it from time to time, make sure its shoes are tied and things like this, or that its zipper is pulled up in the case of a man.
Yes, yes, anyway.
So, we think we possess things, and particularly we think we possess minds, and what I've discovered, and I'm not finished by a long shot, I don't have any idea yet what a mind is,
but I have such a unique and beautiful sense of it, and my experience of it is so profound that I can be very certain I do not possess one.
At the same time, I have all the ordinary feelings and thoughts that a regular person does who thinks they have a mind.
I act like I possess a mind, I feel like I possess myself and my mind, but I don't, I don't.
And I know when I think carefully that I don't, and I can even find situations where I don't even seem to, for example, in dreaming,
or in states of high creativity where my mind seems to be moved by flows and forces far beyond my can, or especially in nature,
or in deep, intimate, playful communion with any other being or living place, yeah, in these things.
There is this freedom from possession of self and mind, which I think is a myth, and we live in a culture that highlights and emphasizes individuals and individuality and individual rights and things like this.
The really strange thing about that is that it's impossible, it's a complete fiction.
I don't think socialism is any different, but the idea, I mean socialism is also a fiction in my opinion.
Well, the way that we frame things is a fiction, is fictional.
But what I'm trying to say simply is that the idea that we exist as sort of reified individuals, abstracted from each other and nature and things,
we can pretend that we locally possess minds, but we don't, and I'll give you a simple example.
You can imagine a guy, I've used this example many times, but you can imagine almost anything, right?
Any kind of surprising event that was unexpected is going to radically change what our mind is, and in fact, not only that,
simple things like expectations radically alter our brain chemistry and produce a different mode of intelligence instantly.
Some better, some worse.
When we, for example, feel that our ideas may be criticized or are going to come under scrutiny and be evaluated by others,
we tend to lose intelligence rapidly, whereas if we feel supported and encouraged in an environment that will allow us to experiment,
to make mistakes and, you know, retract what we say and try over again and things like this,
then we tend to have available to us much more intelligence, and then other ridiculous things.
You can just, like, hold your hands above your head in a victory salute and kind of look at the sky and go,
yes, yes, and sort of be really excited for a moment, and your intelligence will increase,
your ability to face obstacles and situations will probably, for most of us, suffer or, you know, undergo a fairly significant increase.
So that's really strange, isn't it?
Because if I, if I possess a mind, and it's just so, so variable that I can radically alter its function,
and it will be altered by the presence of other beings and places, again, our, I think our model of it is a bit confused.
We model it as something that we receive stuff, and then we process it, and then we re-express it.
And I won't say that's not happening.
By the way, you can enjoy the canine mind outside, which it's relevant to my discussion.
I don't know if you can hear it for sure, but you probably can, and if you can, it's relevant.
There's a dog barking outside a lot.
Yeah, there it is.
And it's protecting a very small territory, which is an automobile, and it's doing something that happens if we think we are individuals.
It's doing something that happens when we feel we have a small, compressed terrain that is everything and has to be defended at all costs.
You can see the outcome of this kind of thinking in much of what the United States has become.
And also in the kinds of people who tend to arise to take advantage of that situation.
Back to our topic.
The reason the dog is relevant is that when I began this discussion, I was thinking about how we can imagine the mind as a kind of locally fortified city, in a way.
Now, no city exists in isolation.
They might have once a long ago, but they don't anymore.
And I think what they were long ago was very different, too, in many ways.
But a mind is a bit like a strange fortification.
Of course, it has transports in and out.
The senses, language, seeing, especially.
We're very, very visually oriented culture.
Particularly in our case, media, human produced media is one of the primary transports into the fortified city.
Much like the car outside with the dog barking.
And these transports carry something we don't really have language about.
Any of what I'm trying to talk about here.
The closest thing we have is sort of Dawkins' idea of a meme, which I'm not even fully conversant with.
I don't necessarily subscribe fully to it, although it's a very useful idea.
What I want to talk about is minds.
And so I want to shape for you the idea that our minds comprise a terrain, much like land.
And in the same way that land is often, we often enter conflict over ownership or use
or the ability, the opportunity to harvest the assets of land.
Land is something we really value and we will do anything to keep it.
In fact, it's why we go to war, supposedly.
And we seem to think we possess it.
We're very possessive about land.
So I want you to think of our minds as a terrain.
And I want you to think of them a bit as a forest that exists in a relational dimension.
So it's like a space-time dimension, but it's invisible.
It's all what all of the things that happen relationally exist in this dimension and affect this dimension.
And our mind is a strange interface with that relational dimension.
And in fact, it is an instance of it.
And in this relational dimension, where every mind exists, you can imagine it like a world.
Imagine just an earth that has no surface.
It just has these little connected minds.
So what it has are every human mind is connected.
We'll just imagine a network of human minds all over the face of this.
They're not physical.
They just make them little circles and connect them with lines.
So imagine all the human minds as little circles connected with lines.
And these little circles are our fortified cities.
And then imagine that there's many lines going into each circle
and that aggregates of the circle produce, you know, they live in a bigger circle
and that big circle has lines going into all its members.
That's the culture.
The big circle is a projection of the aggregate, an upscale projection of its members.
And it creates culture in its own image and sort of reprograms its members strangely enough.
It becomes a...
Well, we've seen how corporations and governments become something more than individuals in their own right.
And we can also see that they're not very intelligent.
They don't care much about individuals.
In fact, they can be quite and generally are quite inhuman.
Yet we trust our lives and planet and children to them,
which I think will prove to be a mistake we will recover from,
but we're going to need to do that.
So our minds are a relational domain and they're like little bubbles in that domain
and they're connected to each other and to the culture and to nature.
Now as we broke the connections to nature, we strengthened the connections to each other.
And then when we broke those connections, we strengthened the connections to the culture.
So now with a lot of our cultural connections broken and a lot of our interpersonal connections
that used to exist broken, families and such,
we now depend on the culture for our connectivity and that's a very, as I think you can imagine, dangerous situation.
But I want you to think about what lives in this terrain because something lives there much like animals live in a forest.
And these animals, so to speak, are highly intelligent.
They're a little bit like competing predators,
but they don't eat each other so much as they go after ownership of mines like that dog owning that car back then.
And they take over mines and then they defend them and they use them to convert new terrain for their own benefit.
And these little animal-like things that I'm going to ask us to imagine inhabit the transports in our media.
And I'm making one right now by the way, I'm making a bunch of them.
They are ideas, they're concepts, they're called thrips.
And this is just a toy that I make to talk about a way to think about how our minds and intelligence work.
So thrips run back and forth across these transports.
We trade them with each other and that's what we're doing here on Facebook.
It's not exactly memes because these thrips use us both as a resource.
They convert us to their reproduction.
So they use us like a reproductive organ.
And they use us to dominate and transport themselves along those connections between the mines and between the culture and the individuals.
And those connections I call the mimula and the terrain of human minds I call a cognizium.
So we are all members of the human cognizium.
You have a local cognizia and that is connected to other cognizia via connections I call the mimula.
Forgive me for the complex language I like to play with language.
So we are members of a cognizium, the human cognizium and that's a dimension of thought and relation.
And in that dimension these animals like thrips compete for us like fruit.
And they take us over in droves and Christianity is a good example.
So is democracy, so is socialism, so is materialism, commerciality, the wealth cult, on and on.
English is a thripset.
All of our knowledge is really built out of ramified thrips and so we don't actually know how to manipulate these directly.
We are mostly servants of them.
You can learn how to manipulate them directly.
But again I am just making a toy.
I am not asking you to pretend reality is as I am saying.
We are just looking at a model.
So we have minds, they are all connected and they used to be connected to nature and we used to acquire thrips from nature.
We no longer do, we largely acquire them from culture.
We used to acquire thrips from deep intimate relation with each other and nature, with each other in nature and with each other outside of nature.
We don't do that so much anymore.
We acquire and trade mostly cultural thrips now.
These have nothing in our favor.
They are like the equivalent of eating poisonous junk food that makes you feel powerful but is toxic and will kill you.
And we don't know how to manage them.
We don't even know how to manage language.
In fact, our language is so broken we think we possess minds when in fact we are sharing them.
I really mean we are sharing them and that's why there is no such thing as a psychic because we don't really have local minds.
And in order for there to be psychism, your mind has to be local to you but it isn't.
The reason it's not local is obvious it's connected to everything in all of time.
By those little lines, the mimula.
And they used to connect you to nature but most of our human cultures either snipped that connection off, they amputated.
Or they co-opted so severely that they give you a bunch of fairy stories that are so thick and stupefying that you'll never see through them.
To actually open up the transport and get what is waiting for you in communion with nature, with living beings.
Which is something so astonishing that it cannot be described and anyone who tries is pretty much lying.
Especially if they are not just singing and crying and dancing when they are trying to describe it because that's about as close as you can get.
It doesn't fit in language well.
When you talk about it in language you have to claim that you have to openly tell people this is nothing like it.
I'm just making a toy of it at best as I am doing here.
So we have these minds and they are a little bit like fortifications.
They connect and media, corporations, things like this, they want to take over those connections.
They want to manage them very severely as you can see with the NSA.
The NSA knows that we are all now using the cultural mimula of the internet which is the replacement for the natural mimula that used to exist between us.
The internet is the new one.
It got replaced in pieces. The first one was writing, radio, television, supercultures.
It went on and on. I'm not going to go into all the detail but we ended up with the internet and we are going beyond that now.
The internet is our new mimula.
And you can see on the internet the reflections or the shadows of thrips at war.
And you can see people actually at war defending and propagating thrips but not their own ideas and not their own insight.
Notice that? Thrips, not us. Thrips, not nature.
Culture, not humans. Corporations, not children. Governments, not environments. Prisons, not lives.
Does it sound hyperbolic? It's not hyperbolic enough.
Because the thing that is producing the thrips that our minds are being built with and are sustaining themselves in and around or immersed in is not only not human.
It's a shadow of certain processes of abstraction and those have zero regard or awareness of living beings, places or futures.
They are about metrics, quantification, measurement right now. Put some money in the bank.
Make a pile of cash. Succeed.
Show your success in human terms.
Build your own wonderland. Build your own Disneyland.
Build your own floating city at any cost without, let's not even examine the costs.
Well, the cost is of course the environment, our intelligence, our humanity, our relational opportunities, our identity because without connection with each other and nature,
very deep, profound connection that overwhelms anything else, we cannot know ourselves.
So we're sort of in a situation where we are a terrain that is being competed over in an invisible dimension that we don't pay attention to and language is one of the primary forces of that competition and it sets us up to be crippled.
It sets us up to be its servant. It sets us up to follow its dictation about what we can be, do, think, find, become.
And all those setups are lies and they're deadly lies.
Now that's not so bad, right? Because what happens is we're born into human culture first and then we're sort of encased in this protective shell of human culture,
which is all the things we're talking about, language and media and what human cultures do, which is pretty rapacious and ugly on the whole,
but especially as concerns nature, which is our own body, so it's hard to say anything else.
Some cultures are more humane than others by far and some are far less stridently violent than others by far and certainly these are better.
But we don't really have any cultures that are examples of what we would prosper in because it's impossible so far in the modern milieu.
The cultures we have, as I said, are the towering monolithic shadows of ways of knowing that are completely disconnected from life in nature
and have to do more with metricity, measuring things, evaluating them objectively, determining values according to cash dollars.
The weird thing is, of course, cash dollars are made of blood in every case and we just don't notice that and lots of kinds of blood, not just one.
Anyway, so what are we going to do about all this? How can we use the information that I've been examining here profitably?
Well, the first thing is we can realize the difference between a helpful thrisp and a conversionist thrisp.
In other words, an aggressive dominating thrisp, an idea that wants to convert you to spread it.
It doesn't lift you above it, which is what a positive thrisp would do. There's a couple of kinds of positive thrisps.
The first one is it lifts you up and makes you so much more intelligent than you were that you're not going to repeat the thrisp.
You're going to do something so amazing that you're going to shock yourself and probably everybody else.
So this is something you encounter that just gives you a lift up and then disappears poof into the background.
It does not want to be sustained, grand eyes copied. It wants you to become something more than it.
This is very positive. There's another kind of thrisp that attacks domineering thrisps and takes them down, right?
It would be like, imagine a thrisp that connected itself to everything in your mind and then flipped a switch and destroyed itself so that they all went with it
and all of their predatory illusions disappeared poof in one fell swoop.
You'd never find the thrisp that did that because it doesn't advertise itself or run around asking copy me, copy me or convert you.
It actually sneaks in in the night like a thief, but instead of stealing yourself, it steals your prison.
And we are these kinds of beings and we are meant to be these kinds of beings.
And our minds are something so profound that they're worth competing over and for because I want to tell you, you've never seen really what it is.
If you haven't reestablished in the deepest way outside of human culture your connections to nature that inform the structure of your intelligence and your mind
in a way nothing like any human story, nothing like any human dream, in a way beyond all stories and dreams.
If you haven't had this experience or something very, very like it that has profoundly lifted you out of our culture,
then you're probably still in a cage that you feel but cannot quite describe or evade.
And you're probably still trying to understand, well, what is this thing that I am?
What is this mind?
And let me tell you something. A mind is what I began to talk about in the beginning.
It's not a fortified city. It's not just terrain to compete over.
The reason it's being so fiercely attacked and dominated is because of what I said in the beginning.
It is the fulcrum of possibility for the entire biosphere, your mind.
A single mind, all human history can turn on one mind's movements.
What? With your mind, you can change the meaning of every word and gesture that was ever made on Earth with a single move.
Your mind changes the nature of identity. If you decide that it instead receives it,
your intelligence has been amputated and replaced with a mimic that is not only not intelligent, it can never become intelligent.
You do not receive information. You are not computing device.
You participate directly in the recognition, emergence, acknowledgement and transformation of being, of meaning, of identity.
And language doesn't allow you to do this ordinarily.
In order to do this with language, you have to reach a tier of relation with language and with knowledge
where your position is above them, not below. That doesn't mean that you know.
In fact, that might mean that you are liberated from knowing. It doesn't mean that you are an expert.
It means that your fluency is liberated from expertise.
To achieve a position above language and human knowledge is not difficult and nature will happily give you one
if you can simply reestablish that those initial connections that you were born with that remain alive in you,
though the culture shuts them off and denies them, the languages that we use to shut them off and deny them.
And there's a simple topic that's deeply related to this process, which is this.
There are certain key elements that if you contact nature will be corrected.
What happens when we're embedded in human culture is that we're protected and we're given knowledge authorities.
So we're told who to believe and then we accept their thrips and we use those to grow our minds.
And that's natural as long as we can escape that process later.
So what happens is we're born into human culture and then we get protected by it.
They build a shell, a second sort of womb around us, a cultural womb.
And this is assembled of cultural thrips and the thrips we acquire in our relationships and our own thoughts and dreams and all the other things.
But these ideas, of course, concepts that come to us in language and in cultural relation, which I'm calling thrips, which are like memes.
These are the primary building blocks.
So these are what we assemble and reassemble and break apart.
And so we're given authorities, knowledge authorities.
They are first our parents and then later cultural knowledge authorities in books and academia, in science and religion, in folk knowledge, in history, in literature.
And these authorities, many of which are dangerous and many of which are valuable and almost all of which are valuable and dangerous actually.
We become sort of enthralled by them and we come used to sucking at the tit, right?
So we're used to getting information from outside authorities and looking up to them and that won't work.
Eventually what's going to happen is you have to crack the shell open.
In fact, the shell is supposed to protect you until you're ready.
You shouldn't be just cracked out right away necessarily, though some people can.
So this process prepares you over time to crack the shell, but you should know that you are supposed to.
And if you don't, you will be confused.
And you should know that when you crack the shell, you're supposed to go all the way out of human culture,
not according to some New Age mythos or the Pleidians or Eckhart Tolly or Darren or anybody, right?
All the way outside human culture, all the way into nature, all the way, all the way.
So that you reestablish and reawaken those transports that were chopped off by the culture
and replaced with the shell-building materials that were used while you tried to construct your mind
or the local assets that would function to give you participation in mind, in humanity, in intelligence.
And you had to build those locally and you protect them, too.
And that's reasonable.
You do have local assets.
I just don't think your mind is entirely local in the way we pretend, right?
And we do need to protect those assets, but we don't need to defend thrips.
We need to defend intelligence and figure out the difference.
So anyway, we build this shell.
We get these authorities.
And what's going to happen later if you break it is, and this is the crucially important thing,
and this is part of what I'm trying to do here right now,
you'll be reconnected with the true authorities of knowledge, identity, and value.
And they are far outside all human culture.
You cannot find them in books.
They cannot be written down.
No person can teach you them.
In fact, they are so profoundly personal that they must remain unspoken and absolutely personal to you.
They will not be spooky religious things, believe me.
When you, these are very sobering, soul-shocking revelations that will rock you to the core of your being.
They will rock you into silence, not into business, okay?
Not into advertisement.
They will rock you into the silence of dread, wonder, in awe and ecstasy, and terror of ecstasy,
beyond anything you can imagine, okay?
That's when you, when you, if you have any chance to encounter the authorities of which the human toys are shadows in yourself and in nature,
they will reestablish a new world and mind inside you, and that is why I'm saying these things.
So that if you've never heard them before, someone will say them to you.
And so that you will have a chance to realize, firstly, A, that your mind is not at all what you've been taught.
I don't care what you were studying.
It's not in any book.
There's no book you can find.
And if you start believing the things in a book, you're going to get a little more confused, probably.
Your mind is like nothing that can be described.
It touches all other minds in all of time, not just here.
It touches your future self.
It contains all of your past moments and not just that.
It, it, it is not a possession and it, and it is moment to moment how to describe the power it has.
It is the arbiter of identity, value, beauty, holiness and meaning in all of time.
You have something so precious that our cultures and languages have been absolutely desperate to bury it.
If you got anywhere near the actual capacities you're walking around with and using for purposes that are difficult to understand in relation to your opportunities
and wondering why you feel frustrated and unfulfilled, this is the reason.
You were born to fly, but everything that you've been taught has demanded that you crawl and when you crawl the crowds cheer.
Well, I don't think you were born for that.
And the place we were born to fly in is not the sky.
It is the dimension of relation between living beings and minds.
And in that dimension, let me explain something.
Flight in that dimension makes the wildest ecstasy you've ever imagined look pretty slender and timid in comparison.
So I'd like to retrieve that together.
And one of the ways we can do that is by thinking about and talking about our minds, using our minds in new ways.
There's one final thing I'd like to visit, which is an incredibly powerful asset in thinking about and playing with our opportunities here.
It's the idea of a root concept that intelligence is based on.
There are many of them in all languages that are shared in all human languages.
There are things like the sun, a tree, an animal, time, light, love, a dream, food, a mother, a world, the moon, a star.
These root concepts, a plant, a book, a hand, a friend, separation.
These root concepts convey powerful fundamental meaning elements to all other concepts, including each other.
This is a highly ramified system that underlies human intelligence that we've not recognized.
These root concepts, tree, star, love, light, planet, hand, eye, animal, tree, have become degraded, so degraded over time by abstraction,
that they no longer connect us to what they're supposed to connect us to.
And not only that, when they are damaged, our intelligence cannot be itself, it cannot become intelligent.
These are the roots upon which all their meaning is based.
So the fact that they've been damaged, we don't know what a tree is.
We think a tree is so ridiculous that it means we can't be intelligent.
That's what I'm actually saying.
The English definition of a tree is so stupidifying that if you were to just believe it, it would be game over for your intelligence,
because it's nothing like what a tree is at all.
And we believe the definitions, and we use them, and when that happens, our intelligence begins to die.
So what I'm trying to say here is something really radical.
Our intelligence has been corrupted by abstraction.
That means pretending that they're just numeric values and just ideas, names for things.
That can be repaired, and when we do that, our intelligence skyrockets.
If you reconnect with nature, what will happen is she will correct these roots, each one of them.
Along with your knowledge authorities, the roots of your intelligence will be corrected,
and you will learn more properly what water is, what a friend means, what a tree is, what the sun is, what the earth is, what an animal is.
And you will learn in a way that no human culture can ever introduce you to, and this must happen.
Now we can teach each other, if someone comes back from this experience, with these repaired knowledge authorities
and with repaired thrisp awareness so that they can select now and with repaired ability to transmit these root corrections.
Like to help explain something more like what a tree is so that we can have that experience again and not just the idea.
Then that's very healing. That's a kind of powerful medicine. We can do that together.
But we each have to learn to understand these and related issues in our own ways and struggle with them together,
because we're not going to be able to solve any of the activist issues that are sitting on our hearts and minds
and the necessity of our generation if we cannot establish something more like intelligence.
And we can't do that if the roots of meaning have been corrupted, if we don't know what a tree is.
And if our minds are being constantly assaulted by domineering thrisps and cultural monoliths like government
and now corporations like Google and Facebook.
So I want us to begin to think about how to use our minds more like and more wisely than the technologies we're deploying
because these technologies are replacing them and what they're replacing them with is abstractions
and more conduits for domineering thrisps.
We together, five of us, have more power than any nation on earth.
Our minds are the arbiters of identity, not the recipients.
They are the arbiters of meaning and truth, not the mere, they do not just merely sit in judgment, right?
When we come on the scene, everything changes and that means we have the chance to change it.
We have the opportunity to change it. It's our responsibility to change it.
Unfortunately, we've been in the egg so long we become purely passive and we're used to having everything given to us.
It's not going to work.
In nature, that won't last five minutes.
In your conversation with nature, you're going to have to be absolutely assertive and actively intelligent
and looking for every clue as if you were Sherlock Holmes and your life depended on the next ten seconds of your sensing.
And that lesson will teach you how to live in and with and beyond human culture and how to transform it together.
Thanks for listening. Enjoy.
