Hi everybody. We're here for part 4 of a continuing interview with my friend Mark, Kevin, Charles, and Davis.
And we've covered much of his history. Now he has land in Africa on which he's living.
Unfortunately, the land is inhabited by demons, and we're going to take off from there.
So, last we heard you were out in your private area using the bathroom and there was a black mamba there.
Tell us some more stories about the land.
There are some.
Yeah, there are. So the land, because we closer got to the river, the more lush the land was, the more vegetation, different types of plants.
It was good for growing like corn and things like that.
The problem is there's a kind of snake there that is really long. I don't know how long.
When they talked about meters, I never knew how to compute that.
Sure.
Or millimetres or centimetres or whatever.
My guess is that when they were described that their hands were way out, so it was a pretty good sized snake.
But it was apparently big enough that they could stand up over the corn stalk and look for prey.
Wow.
It had to have that length, which is at least four or five feet, and then it had to have the length for a counter-level.
And then they would spring down and then spring over across the corn stalks to attack.
Wow.
A poisonous snake.
A poisonous snake.
Wow.
Did they have a name for it that you can remember at all?
I can't remember.
Sorry.
I have it written down somewhere.
I was always kind of always looking for it, but you know, you're looking through corn stalks.
Yeah, good luck.
Another stick that stared at you.
Really difficult, right?
Yeah, that land was really special.
But that wasn't our main field.
Our main field was further down her father's land.
My ex, her father's property, which was maybe four or five miles down the road.
And so we'd go on horseback.
Every morning we'd get up, go on horseback, go out there to farm.
And we'd be out there farming.
And everything's a competition.
A bit kind of, right?
So everything comes with a song.
You have to sing.
You have to compete.
So when the men are digging, right, you're digging these trenches to plant, you have a song to go with it and you keep going until the job is done.
The last person who's still standing, still out there doing it, people start throwing their daughters at them.
You can take care of your daughter.
It's a traditional thing.
And so I won once when I was with Malidoha.
But I wanted to win this one, but I was a lot skinnier and frail from being sick.
I tried.
I really tried.
My wife didn't mind.
She didn't mind?
No.
No, I mean, at least as far as winning the competition, she knew I couldn't afford to take him back to California.
But I wanted to win anyways, right?
There was a woman there like maybe 102 years old.
I think I died at noontime.
Passed out.
And a 102-year-old woman made it till dinner time.
Until the sun was going down.
She was out there working still.
She won.
But they don't throw the boy children.
No, not at the grandpa.
No, not.
Yeah, it was like that.
And one time I got mad at my wife and decided to take the horse and go out there by myself.
So like three o'clock in the morning.
This horse was amazingly, amazingly sensitive.
Amazingly sensitive.
I've never seen an animal like this.
Every time he would stop and like refuse to ride and make me jump off the horse and have to walk with him,
it's because someone died at that spot.
And I was always with people all the time.
And the only reason why I knew where these spots were is because he did it before, you know?
And they would explain, oh, so-and-so died here.
There was a car crash here and whatever, you know?
So at three o'clock, three thirty in the morning, I would hit these spots and then I'd have to get off the horse
and walk him over the spot and then get back on and keep going.
And one time there was a man on a bicycle.
He was riding toward us, three thirty in the morning.
I think it was that.
I did this a few times.
So I get mixed up at which time.
But I always think of it as the same time, right?
This guy on a bicycle come in and he moved like a stick and I looked at him.
He moved like a stick, like he was made out of twigs.
And I looked at him and he had no lips.
He just had like the open mouth with the teeth out, you know?
No lips.
And it freaked me out because it was still like the sun wasn't even up yet, you know what I mean?
I didn't know what to think of that.
So I went to the farm and came back and I explained it to my wife.
She said, oh, those are the trees.
The trees wake up and they walk around at night and they do things at night, you know?
I don't know what to make of that.
That's the hard part about Africa is you get those kind of responses.
What do you do with that, you know?
But it seemed like it.
It seemed like a tree, you know?
And I took my, you know, this same time or similar, I took my horse past that area where we saw that man, where we saw the dead people,
got to the lake near our farm, rode my horse right into the water.
I wanted to die.
So it's like, okay, let's see what happens.
Let's go straight.
Keep going forward, right?
Went right straight into the water.
I said, keep going, keep going.
He started swimming and took me across swimming with me on him across the lake.
It was spectacular.
We got across the other side of the lake, at least lay down and watch the sun come up.
And it was the most heavenly, godly experience in my life.
Yeah, that early in the morning with the horse, sunrise, jungle, pure jungle.
The sounds of the jungle are amazing.
Amazingly syncopated.
Amazingly syncopated, but just, there's nothing I can compare it to.
The living beings hitchhike on rhythm.
They sure do.
This is why when the humans are digging, they sing.
Yeah.
They're hitchhiking on the rhythm.
And when the rhythm is disturbed, then the humans have great difficulty.
And we live in a time when the rhythm is disturbed.
When we did those ceremonies in Dano, the part that was really strange is they would
start this rhythm, right?
Tata, tata, tata, tata, tata, tata.
And they'd keep that going for a month.
It would be nonstop.
Somebody has to come and replace the person and that guy keeps it going, right?
And what was weird is they would just start reciting like the names of their ancestors
and their predecessors, right?
One after another.
And it took a long time.
It took hours to go.
This first names, one after another, right?
As they're doing it, you could see like the cicada.
They would start following the rhythm, you know?
And then everything else started following the rhythm.
So it started feeling like the jungle was pulsating with the music.
Ah, yes, yes.
This is living power too.
This is the almost tactile, right?
It's audio, but you feel it, right?
It's visceral.
This is the word I want.
Very visceral.
You feel the boom, boom, boom.
And even when I was with Harnard, he was playing a drum, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom,
boom, boom.
And there's a different rhythm for coming back.
Yes, synchronization.
So how did your time on that land come to a conclusion?
I mean, I don't want to skip past stories.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
We got the gist of it.
It ended because of my illness with malaria.
This time I had one of the worst strains.
You got malaria again?
Yeah.
My goodness.
And dysentery.
I had to go to see this shaman, but he was Muslim.
Out in the middle of near, almost to Niger, Niger, Niger, right?
I had to go way out in the desert.
It was hours and hours and hours of driving.
I don't even know how long it was.
South dead people on the road on the way there.
It was really strange, you know, buzzards, you know?
But we got there and he had, I don't know how many wives.
He had a castle out in the middle of nowhere, just white sand around him.
He had like this castle and it was several wives.
I just don't know how many, right?
I was with my brother in law and he had dysentery too.
So we both were getting fixed, right?
And the guy, you know, he listened to us and we told the story.
He had us go into his special room and he gave us this pillow to shove up our problem area, right?
It was diesel fuel.
It was diesel fuel mixed with, I don't know, what else?
I felt like it was like a burning firecracker.
It was horrible.
Him and I both, and this guy's a tough man, my brother in law.
He gold digs, so he's, you know, he spends his summers out there in the roughest environment digging for gold.
You know, 30 people go out to dig, maybe 20 of them come back alive.
And he's been doing it every year, you know?
He's really tough, but he was screaming, I was screaming.
It was really rough, yeah.
It was a different kind of shamanism.
This guy was something else.
He was really something, but he was very wealthy because he was really good at what he did.
Did he fix the problem?
Yeah, he did, cleared us up.
Yeah.
So a little bit shortly after that, we went to see another shaman because my hunt was only for shamans.
You know, I got a chance to visit Jesuit priests and different things.
There was one Jesuit priest who took all the spirits out of a lake, put them in jars and sent them to the Vatican.
And I never got to actually meet them, but I got a chance to see where it happened and where the place was.
You know, but a lot of weird things like that.
But this one shaman we went to go see crossed over several rivers.
I don't know how far away.
I go by rivers because the desert, the rivers are really well marked.
The obvious demarcation.
So it was like, I think it was like three rivers we crossed.
We got out there and this man is somehow related to my ex-wife.
And we explained what I wanted.
I wanted some police protection because I was always worried about getting killed by police, especially back then.
So I wanted police protection.
So he gave me something.
It was so special.
I wish he'd never took it away from me because that was my heart.
He gave me something really special.
This thing.
Okay, so he had a big farm.
A lot of chickens and animals.
He had one of his little boys, maybe a year old boy or something, go out and grab one of the chickens.
And I watched the boy try to grab a chicken, try this one.
He tried that one.
Couldn't find one that he could catch, right?
Caught it.
A rooster, not a chicken.
And brought it back.
And when he brought it back, the old man just took it and started petting it.
And speaking in that, it wasn't Bisa language.
So it was something older than Bisa, maybe ancient Bisa, the older African language, right?
And so I was speaking in that until the thing just laid over, slept away, and then died.
That was it.
He spoke it.
Yeah.
Wow.
Yeah.
That was hard to witness.
That was hard.
That's like, I can't explain it.
There was, there's no tricks around it.
I was looking at that by that time after meeting all the ones from all over the world.
Yeah.
I mean, the weird thing is there's, there's this very serious conflict in your story.
Yeah.
That isn't on the surface of the story.
And it's the conflict between rationality and mystery.
Yeah.
Right?
Yeah.
You see, for example, Malidoma, he's hired twins.
This is a problem.
You see things that cause you to have or continue the concern, right?
Is this a trick or not?
Yeah.
What's real?
What can we count on?
The spinning of the static on the televisions, for example, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Something real.
Yeah.
Right?
But also there's these two aspects in you, right?
One of them is in love with mystery and the other one is grounded in rationality and these
two things are having a dialogue about your life, right?
Yeah.
And also with the illness and the death and initiation and all of these things.
There's this, there's this sort of heartbeat going on throughout your story.
Yeah.
So he talks the chicken to death.
Yeah.
And that was just to give a sign of whether he was allowed to give me the stuff.
Wow.
Yeah.
And permission.
Yeah.
It was really amazing.
It was like three bells tied up with different things and had three threads on it.
And it's when something, they were like dolls, bells, but like dolls all tied together,
three of them.
And it was a black, white and red thread.
And depending on what my situation was, I would use whatever thread.
But I wanted the police to not even see me.
There was a way to wrap the thread around and you spit on it and you say certain words.
I had the words all written down.
You say those words and they'll look in the car and not see you.
I mean, that was the idea of it, right?
Never got that.
One of the powers is that disability.
Yeah.
And what are the other powers?
I can't remember it clearly because.
One is to get a wish, is it not?
Not sure.
I'm not sure.
Yeah.
I was mostly worried about the invisibility.
Yeah.
So I don't remember black and red, but usually black has to do with forgiveness.
Like, it ain't my fault kind of thing.
I'm not responsible.
So the black color usually has to do, and red has to do with starting something or getting
into something, beginning something.
That's in general, but I'm not sure exactly what those ones.
And the yellow?
Oh, no.
There's only black, white, and red.
Black, white, and red.
See the white?
Yeah.
So the white is the invisibility.
And what is the black?
The black is like forgiveness.
Oh, yes.
Let's see.
I can use that in quotes for forgiveness.
Yes, of course.
So he gave you an object of power.
Yeah.
But he recognized that it was actually powerful.
Yeah.
It was the real thing.
And this is one of those guys that, you know, the Lebanese, they're really working hard
on taking over Africa, and the Chinese are.
But these people show up in limousines to come to his house.
That little mud house out in the middle of nowhere.
But you called it a castle.
Oh, no, no.
That's a different guy.
Yeah, that's the diesel man.
Where does this guy live?
So the one I'm talking about, he's, I think, was sanghu.
The place like this, a small little mud village.
If you're in a plane, you won't see it.
It'll match the dirt in the desert.
That's better that way.
Right?
You won't see it in the show really up close.
Yeah.
Now, intimacy invisible.
Yeah.
But those lands were beautifully sweet.
It's a weird kind of desert.
It's dry and it's moist at the same time.
And they have four growing seasons.
Four.
Four growing seasons.
One wonders what their moon calendars are like.
One being me, right?
Makes me wonder what their moon calendars are like.
Do they attend the moon in closely?
Never saw that.
Yeah.
And the people I was around, they didn't do any stellar stuff that I know of.
Really?
Yeah.
That started to happen unless you got into Mali, closer to Mali.
But not where I was.
Nothing with the sky.
That I know of.
Yeah.
So how did you end up leaving the land?
Oh, sick.
You know, I left.
As soon as we got back here, my wife acted up and disappeared and took all the money out of my account.
And I spent about a year looking for her.
I put posters of her and my son at the time, four months old.
All over Berkeley and all over Oakland until somebody knew who it was and reported it.
And took her to court.
It took us seven years of fighting in court.
And I lost everything, including that land.
Wow.
Including all my property and clothes and everything.
Because we only came here to sign some documents for her visa.
And we were supposed to go back.
You know, it just never happened, you know.
So I lost literally everything.
And you're here then, but you go back to Africa again, yes?
You see, after that time, that was my last time.
When he was already born, that was my last time.
I see.
Okay.
And where did you get this?
I got this in Burkina Faso.
That was with a man named Kungule.
He was a dagger.
And through Didier, Monodoma's brother that we went through the crocodile river with and stuff.
We did our own ceremonies.
And that's where I got this one from.
And I got three on one side, four on the other, and then I have them across my chest.
And I don't know if you can see them, but they're on my wrist too.
Yeah, I see a little bit.
Three, one, two, three.
It's supposed to be four on one side, but I don't kilo it very well.
Yes, as you were saying.
The skin of the African people is different.
And it holds markings much more.
Yeah, they build up like callus, thick skin.
There was a chief named Tokombu.
It was actually in Melanesia.
But his skin was so black, it's so thick that they couldn't put any needles to it.
They were trying to test them for, I don't know, syphilis or something like that.
But they were trying to test it, but all the needles broke.
They couldn't even penetrate the skin.
Wow.
And I understand that after seeing some of those people there.
The little boys they used to hunt with, we would go running chasing after animals.
And I'd have boots on and all kinds of stuff ready to hunt.
They were barefoot.
They didn't even have bone arrows, so you would use clubs.
And when we would rock across, run across the flat lands where the rocks were, flat rocks,
like long big white flat rocks, run across those, their feet would click, click, click, click, click, click, click.
They were that tough.
Their feet would click like a horse.
You know.
Young kids too, like teenagers, you know.
Sure.
Yeah, they've grown up always in that way of life.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, this is a good place for us to pause.
Yeah.
We will continue again sometime soon.
Thank you for joining us.
There's more to the story, I promise you, and we'll get to it as soon as we can.
Thanks.
Bye-bye for now.
Bye-bye for now.
