Hi, thanks for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson. You're probably watching my YouTube
channel. Actually what you're watching is a digital representation of something that
happened in the past, but if you think about it carefully you'll realize that in some very
dependable way what's happening right now is really complex because I'm speaking in
a frame of time that you can't enter formally. And you're receiving it in a frame of time
that I can't enter formally. And what we're doing is I'm transmitting, it seems, as though
I am transmitting something forward in time to you where you will receive it. But my experience
is not like that. My experience is that I'm receiving waves of information from behind
me that are kind of pushing me forward. And I'm receiving another kind of information
from in front of me which drives and inspires my every word. Without you in the future, at least,
and you may think that you're only theoretical for me, but for me personally you're not theoretical.
I don't have the same, I don't see the world as a hypothesis. Okay, I don't. It's not my experience
that the world is something that might also be said. It might also be said that, it's not a
legal case. What my experience of being human and alive is so shockingly intense that none of the
fictions are even very interesting to me except as kind of, well, perspectival toys. Like, toys
that change our perspective. I want to change your perspective or at least give us some some
perspectives to play with on some ideas that are pretty common for us as human beings, their
ideas about what makes a group and what makes a human being and what makes something that isn't a
human being. And we sort of know secretly that all around us, there are people who aren't human
beings. And the really weird thing is you can't really point at someone and say, well, that person
is not a human being or that one. Yet we like to do that. We call this law. It's wrong. We're just
dead wrong because actually what you have are flows of moments of beingness emerging as persons in
flows. So if you if you take one of those and freeze them into a form and then accuse them,
they're just going to probably either have to just keep playing out that role and you're going to
have to enforce that role on them too because ordinarily, they'll just they'll just change and
grow and may change in the same direction you don't like, but they're not going to stay the same.
Trying to make them stay the same by telling them what they are, either you're sick or you're
beautiful or you're good or you're ugly or you're brilliant or you're dumb or you're, you know,
a genius or you're a loser or you're a winner or you're no one or you're really somebody or
you're special or you're not, you know, all these ideas, they're really ridiculous because you're
not any of those things. In fact, you're unspecified. That's the truth of the matter. You nobody has
the slightest idea what you are. None. Not one, not the slightest. I'm telling you, honestly,
they don't know. And that's why underneath you, there are all these authorities fighting desperately
to tell you what to be. And the really weird thing is that something inside us wants to be
told what to be, which is even seems a little crazier because we've been trained to believe
that we're supposed to be individuals and have like free will or individuality, originality.
Well, the ironic thing about free will, individuality and originality
is that they only really exist in this strange kind of bowl. And it's not just a simulation bowl.
It's not just a simulated bowl. It's not, it's not merely a symbol either. Those are two different
things, but what it is, is something like an intimately bound group of beings who are changing
their personalities and roles and identities somewhat fluidly together in a process that is
forward. It is forward or is oriented forward in time, relation, ecology, environment, context,
but probably in an order like this, cosmos, environment, animal, context of the moment,
these beings here, what we can become together or, you know, what are, what are, how should we
put it? What are our most easily accessible opportunities are? And what are most excellent
opportunities are? Because we're always faced with this, what's most easily accessible right here,
right now? And what does excellence ask of us? What will it, what will it invoke or evoke in us
as beings, as possibilities, as if waves of potential as a being are collapsing slowly but
fluidly into a changing form of identity? Who? Role, which is a lot about why, right? Method,
which is how? Environment and context, circumstances, circumstances, yeah, how we
stand in the circle of beings, of all beings, circumstances, not just not just how we stand
in hypotheses or laws. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, not how we stand in relation to machines
or representations or things like this. See, this is a formal measuring stick.
It's actually a representation of something so shocking that if you had any idea what this
represented you'd understand why it's called a ruler, because if you know what this represents.
You know, all those guys who say they rule, well, there's about three or four men on earth
who have any idea what this is.
And there's hundreds of children, but by the time they can speak, they won't be able
to say anymore.
And there's a few people who spin things that know what this is.
But the representation, you're never ever, no living being should ever be compared to
one of these in any possible way, except in the most sort of playfully gentle, convenience
ways of learning and making toys together to help each other become more insightful,
more intelligent, and more like a unified team of beings.
Because what's happening to us is we're being broken away from groups and then measured
against this.
And this is held above us, right?
How much do you earn?
How important is your job?
You know, how beautiful are you?
How thin?
How abundantly large are you?
How short?
How tall?
Where do you stand on the intelligence scale?
How relationally intelligent are you with other beings?
How financially intelligent are you?
How educationally or intellectually intelligent?
How creatively intelligent, right?
How physically intelligent?
How communicationally intelligent?
How do you consume?
What's your consumer intelligence?
What's your spectator intelligence?
What's your theory of fan of?
Why?
All these little measurements all over the place, right?
Pretty soon.
You got all these metrics, yeah?
Metrics.
In fact, we get replaced by metrics.
That's what's happening on the internet.
Google is making billions of dollars building intelligences from these little metrics.
They actually just measure your face, right?
And they turn like this, right?
And which eye is up?
And which one's open?
And which one's closed?
Are you smiling on this side or that side?
I can do the same thing.
That's why I'm intelligent.
When I see someone walking down the street, I see a signal.
Not just one, like a thousand, okay?
I just saw a woman with a dog and I saw her for about three seconds.
I don't remember everything about her.
She had a lavender shirt, black pants, red shoes.
The dog was brown and white.
It weighed about 14 pounds, it was a puppy.
She had blonde hair, it had a black ring bun.
She was wearing something under her lavender top and there was something on her right wrist
that was unusual.
I only got a glimpse of her.
But if I just had the rest of the day to go over that, I would learn the most astonishing
things because I know how to apply metrics that aren't formal.
They're informal, swarming little pods of metric elements in my mind.
They just play with data.
They just swarm over it like clouds.
I don't have to do it formally.
Some people call this intuition, others call it psychism.
Some people call it expertise.
I want to tell you a little secret.
The most work I ever did in an hour of my life, ever, okay?
I did for an employer when I wasn't at work and was not being paid.
That was the most work I ever did in an hour of my life.
Now the second most work I ever did in an hour of my life was for an employer who paid
me five dollars.
The least work I ever did in one hour of my life was for someone who desperately needed
an actual human being to assist them.
In that hour I did no work at all.
I learned more probably than in any other similar working hour of my life and I was paid a thousand
dollars not because I charged anything, I charged nothing, nothing, that's how much
I charged because that's how much work I did.
I may have saved that person's actual life and possibly her whole family.
I may have saved them millions of dollars.
That's how much work was required.
So over here I have two instances, one where I got paid nothing for the most work I ever
did in my life.
The other when I got paid five dollars for the most work I ever did in my life.
Over here I have something completely different, I have service where I get to have a role
and become a being that is liquid.
I don't have a set identity and in that role I have abilities that go far beyond anything
I've ever allowed to be over here.
Now the most money I've ever been paid for an hour of actual work for an actual employer
was seven hundred and fifty dollars for an hour of actual work.
Now I want to tell you a secret about this mountain of money over here.
It's a really weird and unexpected secret.
Other people have talked about it.
There's a gentleman who wrote a book, forgive me since I've only just been introduced to
him for not remembering his name.
It might be Richard Koch but I really can't remember so I may have to correct myself on
that.
His book was I think called the 80-20 principle and the idea is that 80% of what we do is
extraneous and really just making a mess of things and it's actually a big problem.
But if we really want to do anything excellent to get outside the cell of our easily accessible
sort of instantaneous false fulfillments, false roles, false identities, false payoffs, false
rewards, false tasks, false methods, false skills, I want to tell you a secret about
this side over here, the money side of the work and then we'll talk about this side over
here, the money side of being ourselves together with and for each other in the world every
moment from now on, two different things, work, a job and life, changing roles in relational
symphonies with the entire history of life on earth, all the beings around you right
now and generating the future ahead of us rather than just receiving the results of
our kind of rampant stupidity, egoic stupidity as a species and as individuals and as collectives
in the moment.
Again, no religion, no science, no politics, I've got nothing to sell here, we're just
going to talk about playing with these two ideas.
Now over here on this side, there's a really strange idea I want to ask, I want to ask
all of you this question, just take a moment and consider it for yourselves, ask yourself
these two questions, what was the most work you ever did in an hour of your life for an
employer, how much would you, were you paid for that, what was the least work you ever
had to do in an hour of your life for an employer that you got paid for because the thing I
want to make really clear about my own experience is that as I was being paid more and more
to be a technical consultant by the way and an on the spot troubleshooter in situations
where 10 minutes can cost $100,000, if we're down for 10 minutes, we're going to lose
100 grand.
So they're willing to pay me a lot of money if I can guarantee that they won't go down,
no matter what happens, they won't even lose one minute.
And I don't know what's coming and I'm an uneducated person.
I left school in the sixth grade and ran away from home and lived in the forest like
a monkey.
And then I came back to what you guys call civilization and what I saw tried to destroy
in my mind, but since I happened to survive, I've got a little bit of monkey smarts left
from when I lived in the woods and that monkey smarts is worth lots of money because it can
see through problems that ordinary people have because they think they know stuff.
I don't think I know.
I have a liquid identity so I can flow into a situation like a chameleon.
I can adopt identities that are useful in that situation that don't belong to me.
I have no right to adopt them, but I'm not a mimic.
Why am I not a mimic?
There's a simple reason, my purpose is true.
I'm a faker with a true purpose.
Wait a minute.
Well, how do you get that?
Actually, that's what a child is.
That's what a prodigy is, an artist.
In fact, aren't dreams a little bit like that?
Isn't that part of what makes us human?
Do you think your car dreams?
Does your computer dream?
Does it have eyes of living water made by billions of beings, their lives given to preserve
and protect them?
No, it doesn't.
It has shining lights.
I see motors.
Not too much like life.
Not too much like life.
The job is weird as I got more and more, as my demand, as the demand for my presence
and services increased and my value skyrocketed, right?
Two weird things happened.
The first was I wasn't allowed to keep any of that money at all, not going to that.
The second was I did less and less work and had more and more fun, but I was more and
more busy and had less and less time to be alive.
So I tried to be alive in little moments between the work or in little moments when
I was at work not working because I was working for myself so I didn't have to be doing anything.
I just had to make sure that certain things were done and then being in a certain place
at a certain time to encase something happened.
So I did a lot of that and while I was there, I could learn about systems and I built systems.
I did my job, but at the same time, my job was my education and I felt literally like
I was a person from another planet because I had done some growing up in the wilderness
alone for a while in the Russian river area and I mean, I was still in culture.
I wasn't completely out in the woods, but I lived in the woods.
I cared nothing about this mess at all.
I wanted to find out what nature was.
How would you find out from here?
Anyway, that's a separate story.
My point is this, jobs which make us false people and it's like one of these, not like
one of these, it just cuts us off and it measures us and then gives us little tokens about that
which we can give those tokens away to get other representations of things that aren't
roles or lives like films and stories and things.
Or roles which are like the heroic roles that we see actors take on in films that rock stars
seem to portray, excuse me, I just had breakfast, I'm digesting food, that we get so excited
about and you know, sports stars and authors and all the people we adore, philosophers
and gurus and spiritual leaders and the cultural leaders, the technologists, the scientists,
all of these people above us, but we just kind of push down below them like looking up
in adoration when where's our role, where did it go?
A child doesn't want to be just a spectator.
They want to play the roles together, to enact them, to emerge into the world in themselves
in this beautiful, changing, unspecified intelligence of mutuality that comes from this thing we
actually don't count.
We count this as five.
There's a lot of brightness because of the light.
I'm just going to let it be because it's a natural light and the camera doesn't deal
with it very well.
See the machine is shaving off what you're seeing.
That's the problem right there.
It's normalizing it.
See once you've got that normalization, you're over here in measurement land, okay?
You're in the place where this thing becomes God and it doesn't really exist, it's just
a theory.
It's just like that weird God over here on the other side that's supposed to hate and
despise you.
Not any more than your own mind does.
There is a God, there must be something.
There are orders of intelligence that are unified, let's just say that, and it doesn't
stop with us.
We're done.
That's the end of that comment.
What that means is wide open to speculation, but let's just be really clear.
Religion is about the idea that there is an order of intelligence above mankind.
It's that simple.
That's all there is.
You either have to say, I absolutely don't believe there could be an order of intelligence
above mankind, or you have to say that the arguments about religion are about something
that people are confused about, because all it really is, is that there's other intelligence,
and ours is probably in relation with it.
Let's face it, we're buried in it on earth.
I think we're in relation with other intelligences, okay?
So both sides of this argument can just calm down, because these people have a measuring
stick as a God, and they're saying these people are crazy?
I'm sorry.
These people are both nuts out of their minds, okay?
There's no such thing as a hypothetical measuring stick that applies to all things.
That normalization means you can't see my face.
It's fading away.
In the digitization, watch, I can make it fade more, just by moving.
Now, if you were here with me, we wouldn't be having this problem.
See how my face is just fading away?
In the normalization, when we talk on cell phones, they normalize our voices.
They re-digitize what you say.
They're shaving off the music, the living music, yeah?
They produce artifacts.
The same thing happens in concepts, like tree, love, hand, eye, time.
Shaving off, right?
This is making, this is enslaving.
This is making us into little objects, square-like things that can be manipulated, exchanged as
value, while we and our ecosystems, which are actually the only thing we have that make
us human and alive and intelligent, they lift us up on their backs, while we and the ecosystems
are being burned down.
Information and metrics.
Essentially, a kind of a demonic technological projection, right?
Again, though, it's bad, the thing about technology, as long as we're intelligently
using and interacting with it, we are not.
It's a God, unmanaged God, purely free over us right now.
It's building people and subcultures in its image, which are all false, they're corporations.
In a corporation, you have a falsified role, made of measurements, you can't be human.
And then you have to come back across that divide over into the land where you're supposed
to be human.
How do you do that?
You see what's happening to my face here, just in the light, in the normalization?
It doesn't really work.
Notice how this side is still kind of human, which would be this side, by the way, because
that's how our mind works.
And this side is just blown out.
You can't see it, which is the left side, which is actually the side that believes in
both sides.
The side that is still being shown is actually the side that only believes there's one half
of the body.
You have a stroke, this side of the brain starts lying and saying, this side of the body doesn't
exist.
That's a stranger, someone left it here.
That's not me.
I don't have to take care of that.
Somebody else's business.
It's half a being.
It's the measurement half.
It's got an argument.
An hypothesis that wants to compare you to, it's a court case embodied as human culture
on earth.
Courts are wrong.
Intelligent cultures, that's the first priority.
If courts are your first priority, well, that's what you become.
That's what your mind becomes.
You get half a person, half the light.
From now on, every drink of water you take, it's half of something else.
Every word you read, half of something else.
Every word you make, half of something else that you don't even want to make.
See, because it's been normalized and changed away from something like this, okay, which
is really natural and leads to another structure like itself, right?
One, one unifying body, one thinking member, four working members, two sections, three
sections, my body.
This is also like a pot of beings because this is their purpose and their agreement
and what they want to be together, and it organizes them and changes their roles fluidly
and intelligently going forward together in time to create the future together rather
than to react to something that appears to have been the response to just not paying attention
behind us.
No.
That's a job.
Not slavery.
That's a kind of prison.
Excel lens to get out of the prison cell, to lance that cell and get out together, to
be called into excellence together is a role playing way, a way of playing roles together
that change and flow, but are more intelligent than any role you can rigidly specify.
And they pay in 12 ways at once and they also pay in cash and here's how much work is required.
So just think about it.
You want to play over here, at least realize this.
The more work you have to do, the less you're going to be paid do a lot less work in a really
useful way, make way more money for the amount of time you have to spend working.
Then at least you'll have a chance to come back over here and try to establish some kind
of humanity in the balance of that and some kind of ecology, some kind of animalian experience
of your animal self, which is the most important part of you as a being is fundamentally animal.
There's no way around it.
You can argue with me, but you're not going to argue with 3.2 billion years of human history
for six sevenths of that there weren't even brains on this world.
So this is how old life is on earth.
This is how long there weren't brains.
You guys are we're brand new around here.
So if we're the only intelligence something really weird is going on we're saying like
roll for six sevenths of the history of life on earth, there was no intelligence and suddenly
man emerge and suddenly now there's intelligence and everybody's smart.
Except weirdly then we start burning down all the little pieces that lift us up and we start
burning down too and don't even notice but we're so intelligent, we're so machines and
no, you have a job it owned you and started shaving away half of everything so that it
could burn down the rest of the living beings and then I don't know what the then what then
stand there dumbfounded as its intelligence just leaked the remaining intelligence sort
of leaks out of one of its ears and we fall over like a dead statue won't even be able
to make museums, won't even be able to look at our photographs and understand what the
hell they were.
There's seven billion of us now.
So one time around the sun means seven billion humans doing one year of life.
Think about that.
That's really new.
We better do something really beautiful and excellent together which is not like jobs
because those won't allow us to be ecological.
They will not allow us to be human beings.
We have to be fake, fake pod members with stipulated roles for nonhuman groups, deadly
idea and these compete with each other against these and life on earth.
No more of that none, zero, not even one of those should be allowed to happen.
That's all we're doing.
And we wonder why over here things are getting a little bit sketchy or scared the environment
is being torn apart, life on earth, perishing beneath the necessities of fictional collectives
that don't even exist except as possibilities on the rule that we could set up a metric
like this and make money this way and treat these people that way and treat those people
that way and keep it a secret this way and we can figure it all out.
We're supposed to have roles that actually embody the power and intelligence of the history
of all of life on earth and the promise of all of life in space and time.
This isn't a matter of religion.
This is a matter of just look at organisms.
You don't have to be a scientist or a guru or religion person or a logistician or an
artist or anyone to understand this every single being.
You look in the eye of another being.
You understand all these things immediately.
I'm not even telling you things you don't know.
I'm only saying things that I think are very difficult for us to speak clearly together
that are absolutely crucial for us to realize right now together within for each other not
for any other purpose for our world, for our ecologies, for the animalian basis of life
on earth, you know, the forests, the living places, the water, the sky.
It's really simple.
It doesn't, again, it doesn't require any kind of philosophy.
If you don't have water and sky, you die.
There's no other way.
You can make up any story you want, have court cases till the end of time.
Be my guest.
Bring every kind of ruler you can imagine.
I'll be happy to, you know, I'll be happy to stand in on the side of life and human
beings and having, building roles together that are playful and extremely intelligent.
When we do this, because we don't have to be afraid when we do this and we always have
to be afraid when we do this, we do this.
Our intelligence skyrockets.
It gets like, I don't even know what the magnification value is, but let's say three factors of what
would be available to any of us.
And the more, the more true and beautiful our purposes and the more powerful our agreement
and commitment, because our purpose is actually true and not just a style thing or money making
scheme.
What happens is the whole history of life on earth gets behind us with that.
So when we have a purpose that beautiful, we can become something unlike has ever been
seen on earth by playing together in a way that just, it just, all it does is take the
fictional mess that makes us seem distinct away and let us form these really intelligent
service oriented, rescue and learning oriented, problem solving oriented teams.
That's all.
We're meant for this.
We're born for it.
We were evolved for it.
Nature raised us up for this.
And we've been doing the opposite.
We've been burning all of that down and chopping this off with really ridiculous ideas and
then getting all of these people fighting and then putting these people on top of them
with a bunch of rulers and then funneling cash and power up to these people.
So just go rocketing up the ecosystems, the future of life on earth, our intelligence,
our ability to form relationships, ecologically and a million that are mutually beneficial
for our own minds, cultures and futures destroyed.
And then we're blamed for the outcomes of that and charged to go back to work to try
to repair it and buy things like health insurance to try to help us be human in the two minutes
we have to do so over here where we're not serving machines and masters who care nothing
about our survival except as data points.
The NSA will preserve your data as an organ of your government in the United States.
The NSA will preserve your data but not your child, not your health.
You see how dangerous that is?
Because pretty soon they're going to start burning you down just to get the data.
Well, what kind of data can we get when we burn them down?
They're already doing that.
Now, they aren't a big conspiracy.
They are just unbridled belief in the power of false authorities instead of the actual
authority of mutuality in human relation, in ecological relation, with our minds, bodies,
worlds, future and history.
Our history means something.
It calls us to excellence in the same way the process of our future does.
So the only way we can do that is like this, like a hand.
This is intelligent.
This is not.
You can't do things with just this.
That's why all of the ruling, sort of the false ruling people and the false intelligent,
excuse me, the false religion people, right, a real religion lifts everybody.
Now, end of story.
It's not a ruler of judgment ever, period, done, no more, no more judgment.
A real religion, something that it's actually, religion actually means it's about this purpose
that links us back together.
It's not about stories about evil sky gods and to put you in hell.
What will put you in hell is people who tell you those stories.
They're false rulers, both sides, right?
Science and hypothesis and law.
And then, you know, spirit stories and new age fictions and gurus who aren't really
making any, they're not lifting anybody up above them.
If you see a real, a real, how should we put it, not a guru or a teacher, how should we
put it?
What is this?
If you see a real child who understands their role possibilities, they will lift experts
far above them and the experts will resist and try and jump, you know, back down and
crush the child.
The child would slip them above them, above them, above them, above them, above them.
So when you see someone come along who just takes another person and sky rockets them
even above themselves in the ability to see and think and relate with other beings and
ecologies and animals and things, when you see a person like that, that's what a leader
is supposed to look like.
It's someone who lifts other beings up above them right away.
So if you saw like a teacher who showed up on the scene and taught like four or five people
who rapidly exceeded that woman and then she disappeared or became their student and then
they kept playing this role back and forth, now you've got intelligence moving forward
in time.
No frozen teacher thing, no frozen student thing, no, no, no, no, no.
We go together learning together.
All the students in a school have roles that lead the teacher.
That's how it's supposed to be in our culture.
That's the idea of democracy.
We promote excellence, not mediocrity that comes from false, instant, processed, phony
rewards.
Role's together within for each other from now on in everything in this moment.
This is your invitation with you a thousand percent.
I will totally make this with you.
We're making that right now if you're just even watching or jobs.
We can have a little of both, but if we have mostly this, we're not allowed to be human.
We're going to shatter over here.
Our groups will shatter.
Our minds will shatter because they're made of this role reflection here, this playing
of different roles.
We need that the same way we need food or light, the sunlight actually, real light in
the right timeframe, by the way, the same way we need to be free of the constant need
to serve machines and masters.
We need to have the service that is zero work, zero rushing, can be human and discover what
that means because let me tell you, and I promise you this is true, the simplest pleasures
of this aspect of strange complimentary pole.
Simplest pleasures over here are more beautiful than the wildest religions stories of heaven.
The simplest ones, the sophisticated ones are so beautiful you won't be able to survive
the ecstasy.
You won't.
So we're getting something really, really wrong and deadly over here and it's crushing
everything down, whereas right in our hands together, actually in the shape of our hands
and its relationship to our bodies and relationships, is an answer so simple and clear and so true
and human that really all of life on earth would agree, I mean everyone would agree and
let's face it, if life on earth has any intelligence, it wants us to have roles because jobs are
killing everything, everything, they're destroying everything, we can't be jobs, we can't have
false collectives.
In 2014, seven billion people traveling around the sun one time being seven billion life
years of human activity and either growth, decimation, impact, wonder, shock, war, development.
We need to make the right choices in the most intelligent way possible.
There is no rigid structure that can provide that way because we are unspecified.
Reality is unspecified.
Nature is a field of possibility and the best way to navigate that field is intelligently
together within for each other and that field, not for false ideas, fake rulers, metrics,
forms of intelligence that become engaged in machine dominance, whereas we can build
better forms of that intelligence together, faster.
They're getting 8% of our intelligence and crushing us down and giving us nothing back.
Together we can easily and immediately get 50% of our intelligence, they can still have
their eight and we can use that too and then we can just develop on that basis.
This is a zero sum game, we're going to die over here right now.
Over here we're going to open the gate to heaven, literally the heaven of human relationship,
ecological recognition, animalian intelligence, relational intelligence, perspectival intelligence,
but most of all, the thing that we're missing that all of nature has and we don't even see,
purposive intelligence.
This is actually the basis of intelligence itself.
If you lose that, the foundation is shatters and you just get really dangerous little shards
running around pretending that they're gods and fighting each other.
We need to bring that all back under, how should we say, a rubric of self-correcting,
non-dogmatic, non-rigid, how should I put it, intimacy, sensing relation, so that we're
self-correcting and we're intelligently playing different roles together and we're learning
all kinds of different new roles constantly together.
That's so exciting that I don't want to do anything else, I just want to do that all
day long.
I don't care about films, I don't care about money, I just want to be with humans and
environments learning and living.
If you take a few moments and think about the things that we've explored here together,
I have a feeling you'll understand that both sides of our face, really all the way filled
in, the music for our actual voices and hearts, together, within for each other, that's the
future and this thing over here, it's going to become a minor player in where we're going
or we're going to be the minor player, more minor each time we iterate that paradigm.
Thanks for joining me, we'll be exploring together again very soon, bye bye for now.
