Hey everybody, quick note, just had this in my mind and wanted to explore it a little
bit.
I think we keep hearing that, and our language actually declares to us if we're unconscious
about it, that each person is separate.
And this just, it's not true.
It's not truthful.
And we can't say exactly what's going on precisely, thankfully, but our language and
ideas impose boundaries where there's actually transports of deep connection.
And so we think like individual humans, our containers for things like their soul or
emotions or psychology or whatever, it's not really like that.
Each person is a community from before the time they were born through their childhood,
even if they're isolated, each human being is a community.
And I'm not saying this is a fact, I'm saying it's vastly more true than the fiction that
each person is an individual, which is largely illegal fiction and a conceptual fiction.
And so, really, there's no way around it, each person's a community and it's more of
a question of to what degree is their community embodied, are they communal with living places
in an authentic way, are they communal with other human beings in an authentic way?
Or ways, or ways that tend towards authenticity, whether or not they perfectly qualify.
And animals, and plants, and life, and knowledge, and dreaming, and being alive.
All of this.
So fundamentally, we are communities, and even someone who's isolated and just watches
television and eats food and lives entirely by themselves, that person is still a community.
It's just that instead of actual relationships filling the interiority, enriching their interiority
and connecting them to others, instead of authentic relationships, they have representations,
they're still a community.
They continue to be a community in some way, unexpectedly unique to each person and situation,
because a person isn't always one way, a person is many ways in different situations there
are different people, even though some things may remain relatively stable.
So yeah, it's just this one thing.
There's no person who's not a community, and the community could be with just a living
place and no representations, and no humans, or it could be with a shack, with a TV, and
a lot of empty beer cans and garbage.
There's still a community, and it's tragic that we fill that space with representations,
but even then we're still a community, it's just that we're relating mostly with products
and frameworks, we're relating with tokens, and we're relating with ourselves through
those tokens, so that's the communal aspect.
Even if we relate with ourselves more or less directly in our interior, there's still
a communal foundation aspect, there's a whole communal spiral there.
So this idea that we're individuals, we are separable, but not separate, and that's part
of why separating people from others is considered a kind of torture, and unfortunately this
is the kind of torture, modern civilization, is profoundly adept at both imposing and obscuring.
Just one day we'll flip that over together.
