Hi. Welcome. My name is Darren Stevenson. You're probably watching my YouTube channel.
Thank you for stopping by. If you like what you see, please feel free to share the work here.
I like to think of these explorations as something we're doing together.
I've got a candle lit over here because this is a vigil. Tonight I'm remembering heroes.
The real ones, not the representations. The real ones often don't look much like the representations.
And actually the whole topic can be really confusing for us because we live in cultures that hide things in representations.
And some of this is probably just as it should be. It's not all bad. We can't get rid of it. It's not a conspiracy.
It's just part of the way that intelligence becomes aware of itself in a highly structured fashion.
It uses sort of reflections to proceed along these dreamlike explorations and often wants to demand that it knows or there's a law or there's a quip or a quote or a little piece of folk wisdom.
Well, there used to be some folk wisdom before we started just sending noise across the channel.
And these days we're kind of believing the stories more deeply than ourselves because there's not that much left of ourselves.
Under the representations there's not much room for ourselves.
Whatever we brought to human birth is hidden for most of us, for most of our lives.
In many ways it's hidden by what we were trained to expect and hope for.
I'm going to talk and explore. I'm actually very nervous. I'm frightened. I'm not easily scared of enemies, but I'm very frightened of knowledge because the only thing I found that's really worth fearing
is the unspeakable depth of the beauty of the sources of all that we call knowledge and the cosmos.
And personally I like to see the human lenses, science and religion, the New Age, literature, gurus, spirituality quote unquote, language, art, politics and government, cultures, all of the subcultures, all of the trees of all of this.
I like to see all of that as a kind of a child's playroom where children are attempting to assemble some kind of a toy to help them understand.
But they don't really want to understand. They actually really like the toy.
So we have a lot of stories from our ancestors and we tell each other these stories as if we think we understand them.
And in fact, I love the way that the internet works because a person like me can make great use of it.
When I read a sentence, I get 30 ideas. A lot of them are disposable.
But the fact that I've got such a kind of a sphere to reflect off of back on the central idea and almost any sentence, any sentence you could name, Jane runs fast is enough for me.
And with that, I can learn for an hour. So if you give me a sophisticated, any kind of sophisticated information chunk, I'm like someone who's almost from another world in that I've never seen information before.
And I just, I just, I don't seem to interact with things the way ordinary people do.
I'm fascinated by learning and intelligence and how it plays with itself in beings, across gaps and on in spaces in time and form, matter, energy, space, in waves, in waves it seems, and pulses.
Like the heartbeat, like the drum, the rattle.
There's another way, an arrow pierces you. Or maybe it flies straight like a bullet.
There's kind of a bullet way of knowing. And then there's sort of a drum way of knowing which makes a pulse.
Like radar. Or sonar maybe.
Sends out a pulse and then that comes back.
You know, blind people can learn to navigate by understanding the directionality of sound in ways that sighted people don't.
Now if blind people learn culture from sighted people, they may learn the sonic blindness of ordinary sighted people.
But if sighted people learn culture from blind people, what they suppose might happen?
I used to have a joke that went something like, the one eyed man in the land of the blind is still at the starting gate while they're asleep at the finish line.
And the reason is that they can magnify their efforts over one another in a wave that promotes an asset so rapidly to the front that the tortoise beats the hare.
As the hare begins its first step, the tortoise crosses the finish line.
And this is understood in certain esoteric circles which might involve swordsmanship for example, or martial arts.
They could also involve gun fighting or even knife fighting. Perhaps fencing.
And yet they are true of such delicate things as communication, love making, kissing, dancing, wonder, dreaming.
Some of the things I'm going to talk about, I'm going to come back to that in just a moment, some of the things I'm going to talk about are a little bit dream inducing.
I'm going to allow that to happen. And that's part of why I'm nervous because I'm not going to be able to perform as deptly as I'd like.
But the topic is crucial enough in these two ways.
The pulse knowing, like you bang a drum, that's not just knowing.
And that kind of knowing is instructing the whole terrain. When you're making that drum beat, that pulse is just instructing the whole space and unifying it.
Because everything in that space is uniquely participating in that rhythm and in all of their relationships at the same time.
This is part of why people do dance alone and it's fun. But people like to come to death together to dance.
And together is part of why we're here. Interestingly enough, this word together has a unique structure that can be read as to get her why.
What are we going to get her? Well, actually, we're going to get her very happy. Just like a little child. I think you'll see what I'm talking about.
We're going to get her, oh, we're going to get hero.
We have these stories and we think we know what they're about. And I love the internet because you can make a lot of the information there. I can.
But it's easy to think that the expertise is most or all of what there is or should be.
And it's easy to stop there and not really understand what's underneath the elaborately organized and cataloged crust that the internet comprises because there's something alive underneath there, like under our roads.
That living stuff is knowledge. And when we share it this way, like we're going to do here in a very natural way, it's contagious.
In fact, it's far more contagious than damage, fear, isolation, terror, loneliness, boredom, vulnerability.
It's far more contagious than all the things that tear us apart.
Knowledge is exquisite. And it's in everything that we're touching, which is part of why I get so much joy out of even such a simple sentence.
Or any little piece of media because I just feel like there's too much to discover in there.
If I had just that one thing for the whole day, I could learn a thousand things.
And each day in my life, I learned enough that I'm frightened that I might not survive it, on most days, especially lately.
And that's part of why I'm making this. I'm having a visionary experience of knowledge and learning.
And so I'm making this partly for myself because this helps me to more deeply understand my own experience and grow inside it and learn,
but also for other people who might in some way benefit from it.
And since I have no agenda, I'm not trying to say I know anything or not selling any idea concept.
I would like everyone to think about how we see and how we experience meaning together.
And also a lot about what identity is, what words mean, what language is, lots of things.
I want us to think about lots of things, but I don't have, I don't want to try to sell you anything.
No kind of real religion or science or folk knowledge or anything like that.
I'm just really interested in understanding how we got to be doing all of the things that we do as human beings.
And in the context that we're in, what we do as human beings is really incredibly in conflict with biology on Earth.
And I think also the basis of what lifted us to this incredibly sophisticated and technical intelligence that we now enjoy.
Heroism is hugely involved in that because it was involved in the conception of every one of us.
One sperm out of maybe between 40 million and who knows 1.5 billion sperm.
I am the one that they sent to speak for them.
It wasn't a competition. Well, it was a competition and that's exactly what we're going to talk about.
But you might notice that I wear a hood. Here it is.
And in one of our stories there's an archer who wears a hood and he's very good with his bow.
And he shoots an arrow. He's kind of a writer in a way.
Describe in a sense. But he writes waves out of cages for whole generations of beings in waves.
And when we see heroes like this were inspired and we realize, oh, there's something pretty amazing about being human
or at least about the possibility of being free together with and for each other to the possibility of excellence.
And in this word there's a beautiful secret, ex-cell lens.
We lance the cell and prisoners are freed.
But of course we don't lies the cell. We don't destroy the earth. That's the opposite.
Now when we lance the cell, it splits and now they're free to divide and make little networks and constellations
and things like all the little cells do. They're free. They're out of the cell. They're ex-cell lens.
And we have these stories that remember this stuff to us.
And one of them that I'd like to remind you of briefly before we start is Cinderella
because I know a princess who used to be named Dirt. I do.
And I'll tell you very briefly a story about her that I know this princess, she used to be named Dirt
and she had these three-step sisters. Glorious beings, they.
One had the most gorgeous red black dress ever imaginable.
And the other, well, hard to describe her garb.
Almost a rainbow with a ribbon. Such a ribbon.
And the third, the jewelry. Unbelievable, the jewelry.
And yet here was this scullery nape.
A woman born to slavery. She cleaned the chimney. Covered in ash.
Hopeless, a slave, really.
It's said that a man of great valor and nobility was coming.
There would be a ball that everyone would, in their fineries, arrange themselves before him.
As if to be selected somehow.
Or possibly just to be noticed.
To be seen. We all know how wonderful it is.
To be seen, especially as children, always seeking our mothers and fathers attention so vigorously.
It's not because we're greedy. It's actually because we want to be the hero.
We want to be the hero. We want to make mothers so happy that she actually just starts vibrating and squealing and giggling and wiggling.
We want her to have...
Yeah, we do. We want her to have one. I know.
I won't say the word. You don't have to be afraid. This is safer work so far.
But that's part of why...
I'm telling you this, but I'm wearing this hood.
See, there was this archer who also wore a hood.
And the reason that he wore this hood is amazing and beautiful.
Profound and hilarious. And it's all about competition.
And we were born from one, from a competition where...
From millions of sperm and a single egg.
One of them, hi, I'm him talking. For all of them.
One of them succeeded and was promoted.
Promoted to the...
To the Royal Archery Contest where he would be tested. Tested?
Didn't he just come from testes?
Now it's over. Now it's not safer work. I think we're done.
I'm just going to have to talk like a regular guy now. No, I won't.
Anyway, one of them was promoted. You know, if you got there, if you got to the scene of the crime scene...
And they were riding horses, by the way. These horses were snakes.
The egg has a detachable tail, which is, by the way, the mitochondrial DNA of all the mothers.
And when it gets to the egg, all the mothers of that father in that tail...
It's the egg, the little swimming tail that helps the spermatozoa pierce the ovum.
With a special enzyme, which causes the ovum to suddenly change.
And lock all others out.
When that event happens, there are some witnesses in the vicinity.
And the snake is kind of left half-wiggling on the outside.
Because it can't penetrate all the way into the egg and it will be broken off and perished.
Our valiant steed that we rode to victory and birth.
We lost our angel at the crossing. So it seemed to us.
Now, in a sense, Robin Hood is really about this story.
And he's an archer in sure wood.
This is wood we can trust.
This is fluid rigidity.
This is not a domineering tyrant.
This is a real hero worthy gentleman.
But let's get back to that conception event for a moment.
This language English.
It's like the delicate fruit of children who lost the alphabet of angels.
And then they tried desperately to recompose it and they got a lot of it right.
There's a lot of it in there. But what I mean by angels is not religious, necessarily.
Unless you're religious about the existence of intelligence, which you clearly exhibit some form of it.
An angel really is kind of whatever we agree that it will be for the sake of argument.
For now, I'm going to just keep it a question mark.
But it's basically something that helps us cross a gap, like that little snake.
That strange mitochondrial wiggler.
It's a powerful thing, cilia.
I think they were spirochetes.
And they used to be an invasive organism and we had still cells and spirochetes like things.
And one day, these two got together, according to Lynn Margolis, a historian, Sagan's wife.
And then we had a problem because then these little wigglers could drive the other cells to food and resources
and they could get them across gaps.
Life has humble beginnings, but even in our stories, these beginnings are inescapable.
They were the first moves of life on Earth. How could they not be now found in our stories?
Now, we have this idea about competition. It's very dangerous.
It actually reforges our intelligence and the way that we relate with one another and the planet in a lethal way.
A way that is completely, completely mistaken.
It's usually not a good idea to say something like that.
It's usually good to have kind of a middle ground, right?
And say, well, there's good things and bad things.
And it's true, there are.
When we're lethally mistaken, as long as we have some rebound time and we do rebound, we can often rebound wildly.
But this time, we're so lethally mistaken that we've torn down what might rebound.
And it's not a good scene, so we need to understand as quickly as possible.
And as universally as possible, without any specific stories or any specific authors or any specific, you know, subcultures.
We just need to understand as human beings living alive with minds in nature on Earth.
We all pretty much qualify there.
It doesn't really matter what else you think.
Without an Earth, there won't be anything to be.
So we need that.
And without being human, a lot of what we're doing isn't very human.
Without that, it's not everything we've done in history will be wasted and destroyed, including the history of all life on Earth.
And we'll burn down what we've got here, make a lot more machines and representations, empty noise that we can't relate with.
Their minds destroy our minds.
So it's kind of two different paradigms.
One of them is life and intelligence positive.
And one of them is life and intelligence replacing.
They do work together.
We need a little bit of both, right?
Because knowledge itself is structured.
But what happened when we were conceived was not competition.
And machines are competition, let's be really, are like the false kind of competitions.
Be really clear about this.
Machines are a lethal form of competition.
They'll rip everything that's left around here.
If we support and allow that to dominate us, mechanical ideas, written laws, things like this, things that are formalized and structured in such a way that they just crush us down while they rise up over us and then become like angry gods, which is pretty much what's going on now.
We won't last another year or two.
I don't mean to be blunt, but again, there's 7 billion of us going around the planet.
So that's 7 billion life years in one year.
We've got to make really intelligent moves now and we've got to learn how.
I don't want to scare you about it, but let's be really blunt.
We need to learn how yesterday.
So what is competition?
Well, what happens with sperm is a lot like what happens with the blind people when there's a one-eyed man among them and they're going to run a race.
It's almost as if the night before the race, the guy who's going to run for the blind people, he sleeps at the starting line.
And the guy who's going to race against them, the one-eyed man, he sleeps in his bed.
Now there's another secret here, which I'm going to hold off to the end because it's going to seem kind of phony.
I'm just going to really be like, oh, of course, that's just silly, but it's not.
Listen to what I'm saying.
The first blind man goes to sleep and when he does, he starts to dream.
And the moment he starts to dream, another one lays down next to him and this goes on.
And a woman and a man and a child and a woman and a man and a child.
And they're dreaming, they're laying down in a row.
Next day, seeing the guy gets up, it's time for the race at 9 o'clock.
He goes to the racetrack and the blind people are asleep all the way down the road.
All the way to the end of the finish line, there's a line of blind people right across it.
The seeing guy goes like, what are you guys doing?
We're dreaming.
I don't understand.
So it doesn't matter, let's race.
So right at the start, all the blind people wake up and stand up.
And just as the seeing guys stepping over the starting line, they won.
But they didn't move.
They didn't even race.
How did they win?
Robin Hood.
That's the answer.
Co-M petition.
See, it's in the word, co, meaning something we do together.
And in agreement, we have agreement about this.
In this case, the M can stand for different things, but fundamentally, it stands for mothers.
Which is the matronly other.
The M other.
There's a patronly other, a father, a pater.
There's a matronly other, a mater, a matter.
The father's like the son, he's that forceful lightning.
Structure.
Coming through the space, structures, intelligence.
And his shadow is technology and making things.
That's the shadow of that lightning.
It's kind of the dark side.
It's all right, but you have to really manage it or it'll just take you over and run you over and remake you in its image.
Which is kind of what's going on here.
So what happens with all these sperm?
So first of all, did you know that there's like a V in there?
By the way, this symbol's pretty interesting here because it's not just about victory.
This is about how we got born.
To get born, half of the crew had to die.
So if it was a billion, 500 million of them went the wrong way.
Approximately, you know, give or take, however many you want.
So let's say this was the wrong way.
In my case, the other 500 million took the rest of the champions to here.
They've probably seen like amazing war stories, like 300 and stuff.
These kids weren't like, sliding down a water slide, okay?
They're ensconced in fluid that is trying to protect them from assaults,
from the acidic environment inside the woman's organs.
And it's a battleground and they're not fighting each other.
They're fighting for each other.
They're fighting to get one champion to the place where there will be judgment.
The judgment of all mothers in all of time.
And that's what this whole event is about.
We're co-empetitioning.
We're petitioning all mothers, the circle.
You can just imagine like a sphere of mothers, not just the human mothers.
All of the animal mothers, all of the insect mothers, all of the fish mothers, everything.
It's as if we're petitioning all of the mothers.
We're co-empetitioning.
What does petition mean?
It means to become little.
It means to empty the throne.
And I'll show you that this is in ramenhood.
Am I making up a religion here?
Trust me.
So this is about archery and how to hit a bullseye, actually.
I'm going to show you exactly how this rolls with people with ancient intelligence
and how they use language and knowledge to encode in metaphor a wave seed
that would expand over time and explode into intelligence.
If you understand the keys, which are meant not for adults.
They're meant for little children.
Like us.
Like this.
Not like this.
He did me in there.
Not like that.
Not like this.
And then like this.
This thing here.
And so on.
Inspirals in a web when it radiates.
It's connected.
Like that.
A co-empetition where all the beings are petitioned
and they sort of do the blind man thing to get the best one to the front.
And that's the one who wins, not the one who started the race,
but the blind folk win the race and they didn't even move.
They simply activated the one of themselves that was already at the end.
Whereas the seeing man had to run away himself alone.
Like that.
Right?
They were like this.
Yeah.
He was like that.
Now which one of those is a god?
This guy.
Who's doing this.
Alright.
Or this.
The body.
The lord of hosts is a reference to all beings.
As a reflective mirror.
Yeah.
Of relation.
It's really simple.
It doesn't require religion or science or gurus or spirituality or anything.
You just understand from your own mind.
We reflected off our parents and authorities all around us.
If they were mean, we took that in and that became part of ourselves in some way.
Good or bad, depending or not really good or bad,
but what I mean is growth promoting or growth retarding
and then also open to growth or less open and compulsive or sort of voluntary.
We're sort of split and we move around.
We're not frozen.
We're not one thing.
People ever want to tell you like, oh you're this, then you just go on being that.
No, actually they're wrong.
No one knows what you are.
You're going to be changing actually a lot all the time, especially now.
If you start to see what's in just the common words we use and the old stories,
you're going to change a lot really fast.
And you're probably going to become one of the very folk of Sherwood Forest,
the place of the wood you can trust.
What is the wood you can trust?
Well, for one thing, it's a hard one.
You can think of it as a sword, but it's a hard one.
Well, it shoots arrows that are alive, little snakes.
And so, a hard one, and my mom, they had a wave.
They made waves.
They were very fiercely waves crashing into each other almost like the ocean and the rocks.
And it got so exciting that her O was born.
Hi there.
Christmas Day.
So, I was all the way.
St. Nick delivered me.
They told her I would die, by the way.
They kind of told her you should just abandon the kid.
Leave him.
Leave him be because he's going to die.
He's got water on the brain.
It didn't work out that way.
A more interesting thing, though, is how that sperm got to the front.
It was promoted from a co-emptition.
So, all those billions of beings, they promoted each other, sort of in waves, right?
Like in a wave action, all the way up that line.
And they got a really good competitor, maybe the best of them all.
But definitely the best they could get across that gap.
And they all made the sacrifice.
That one is speaking for all of those people.
As if a world like ours, as if a world like our own, took one mating pair of humans
and shot them across the gap in space-time to another world somewhere
where they could survive and become a part of that world,
whatever other life-forms might be there.
Like that, that crazy.
Because think about the distance between your father's birth in time and space
and your mother's birth in time and space
and all of the events and relationships that they had on the world, right?
Every little moment, all of them.
You think of all those constellations, yeah?
As they come together in conception, that distance.
Think of all that distance in time and relation and space.
A lot of different kinds of distances.
Because there's a lot of different kinds of relational spaces, right?
All the different relationships.
And then they come together, finally.
And millions, you know, of little snakes go swimming across an incredible gap.
Do you know what that distance is between egg-wise and sperm-wise?
Don't just go in your time, go in egg-time.
Because that egg, I don't know how fast it lives,
but let's say that a day is a year in egg-time, right?
So it's like billions, it's millions of years, right?
And incredible distances.
Like the distances between two habitable worlds in space, like light-years,
at the scale of the cell, in the temporal scale of the cell,
the distance between your parents' birth and your conception.
It's commensurate, I'll bet you.
It might even be larger than what we understand at our scale,
as the distance between two habitable worlds in space.
It might even be larger than that.
And they made it.
And you made it.
And you were unstoppable.
You were a Robin Hood.
Or made Marion, or both.
I mean, one, probably born as both, actually, I think.
You know, we're actually, we stay a little bit of both, right?
Even Robin has made Marion inside him,
and made Marion has Robin inside her.
So which one do you want to be?
You can decide either way, it's okay.
But let's get back to the story about competition in heroes,
because I want to get to why she has this O, and what this is all about.
There's mimics that mimic archers, or kings, or sovereigns.
And a sovereign is one that is promoted,
because it's promoted by co-am petition.
We petition all the mothers,
and our purpose is so noble and true,
our purpose is actually so pleasing,
and true that all beings in all of time would agree.
Every tree, every insect.
Every worm, every maggot, every fly, every scorpion,
every whale, every pot of dolphins, every forest, every river.
And we try to have the best purpose that is for all beings, fulfilling.
And as we do that, we're actually petitioning all mothers,
to raise us forward, and to give us not only their blessing,
but their strength and their intelligence.
So we're emptying the throne of ourselves, right?
We're wiping ourselves out, just kind of gently erasing ourselves,
so that in the empty throne can sit the true sovereign,
which represents all beings.
This is, again, not religious.
Democracy is based on this.
Religious or not, okay?
We don't need to have a God picture for this.
Our own selves are like this.
We have this sphere of reflections of other beings in culture.
And if we relate with it, we say that we're a citizen, right?
If we don't, we say that we're a feral, or we're a criminal, or whatever.
The thing is, we all have this sphere of reflections of authority,
and reflections of heroes, and reflections of enemies,
and reflections of people who harmed us, and murderers, and policemen,
and whoever did us wrong, right?
Big systems, and governments, and, you know, authority figures.
It's authority. Oh, there we got it.
It's authority figures.
There it is.
See, you basically got two things.
You've got either a shepherd or a serpent.
That's the... symbolically, this is what you've got, right?
And the shepherd is the sovereign of the mothers.
This is the empty throne, okay?
And all the fathers come out of the mothers.
So, if you're the sovereign of the mothers,
if you're born of the virgin mother, right, who is ever-virginal,
like the earth is, by the way, since she never gets penetrated,
but she just keeps making babies, and space is the same way.
Is she really penetrated? Did she lose her virginity?
No, I don't think so. She's filled with stars. She's still filling with stars.
Is there a problem with her virginity? Did she lose her cherry?
No, actually, she's ever-virginal, okay?
So it's not only us kind of primates have that specific thing.
The virgin mother is pure, undifferentiated potential,
and this is made merriant, honestly.
She is space-time. She is gaps of every kind.
And if we separate something in that gap, there she is.
Take a pizza, if you don't believe me, right?
Just let's do some math here really quick.
You take a pizza, and you want two pieces, because you've got two people,
so you cut it in half, right?
Well, you had one circle, now you've got two pieces, one gap.
No problem. We all understand that.
Let's say you've got four people.
So the first one, let's say you cut vertically,
and so you've got one gap, two slices.
Now you cut horizontally.
Well, now you've got four pieces, but one gap.
And isn't it funny that now there's inroads into the core of the pizza,
a pointed infinity, a source point?
And now you begin to divide from there to make equal portions
or whatever algorithm you wish to use, or even non-algorithm.
You just rip the pizza apart and eat it, or you just leave it there,
or you photograph it, and you put it on Facebook, whatever you do.
It's up to you.
Just understand that the gap stays unified no matter what you do,
and you can't really separate the gaps.
The only way you can do that is sort of falsely by making up something
that pretends they're separate.
So we all like to say, like, we're all secretly one.
No, actually, we're all secretly separate.
We're all kind of, we make up separations because the Earth is one thing
and one thing and one thing.
If there's a fish on one side of the ocean and a fish on the other side of the ocean,
they're touching, because it's one ocean, right?
So it's touching actually their whole body, all the surfaces of it.
They're communicating through that environmental space.
And there are interactions, even if they're on the other sides of the planet,
they're structuring that space.
And those structures will be communicated all around.
First in very small ways, but eventually in huge ways.
Let's go back to Robin Hood.
The snake and the shepherd.
So the false king is actually just an ego that stands over.
By the way, this hand is not bad and usually it's this hand that's troubled
and my honor is reversed, so this is my right hand.
This is my left hand.
We've got these two kingdoms, by the way,
and the right hemisphere doesn't really believe, excuse me,
like I'm getting this backwards, this always happens to me,
the left hemisphere which has the right side of the body
doesn't really believe in the left side of the body.
So it kind of wants to attack it and it kind of wants to,
it kind of wants to lord over it and say like,
you're not real, you don't do stuff.
I'm the divider, I make divisions in things.
I'm the hard one, yeah.
And it's not really true.
See, this one is supposed to be wielded by this one, actually,
not physically, but in the sense of purpose, which is the mother's wielding.
The father's wielding the sort of Smith or Forge guy.
The guy who wants to make technology, which, again, is okay,
as long as we have some intelligence guiding it,
which we don't, really, at all.
And I can be really, really clear in this argument that we don't,
regardless of what kind of data is brought to bear,
bring anyone to the table, they won't have a chance against me.
Because we're burning down the living system,
all of the living relationships they're anciently conserved,
they're irreplaceable machines don't help us instead of those.
They're just like, if I burned you down and had a doll,
it doesn't work, your argument isn't going to fly.
So technology's okay, we need language, but we have problems with language.
We need, you know, mathematics, but we're confused about parts of mathematics
and how it relates to things, physics in particular.
And we need all of the things that we have,
but we are using them in ways that are crazily misguided
because we're sort of like children without any parents.
The parents are actually us.
We just have to do something more like this than like this.
Robin Hood's all about that.
In Robin Hood, a guy wearing a hood who actually represents, believe it or not,
the tiny penis under the hood of the woman,
which is sort of the source of the real big penis.
So she's a point inside a circle, right?
A circle with a point in the middle.
That's the little penis inside the woman's hood.
And it's pure intelligence.
It knows. It's going to judge.
It's the first point of co-emp...
You're going to petition her.
Come on.
Am I making this up?
Man.
Women.
You're going to petition her.
And that's the first petition, right?
Actually the first petition is nature and chance and things like that.
The first petition is like conversation.
Co-enversation.
We're not going to get into that.
But you're going to petition the little guardian, okay?
The little happy guardian or angry guardian at the gate.
And if the guardian doesn't let you through,
your error is miss all, miss all targets.
But if the guardian, excuse me, if the guardian of the garden lets you through,
well, trouble ensues.
You've got an archery contest on your hands.
And there's a variety of forces at play.
Just as we have in ramen hood, right?
There's the false sheriff.
There's the snakes in the world, right?
And we ourselves become them.
It's not like there's a conspiracy or there has to be a demon.
No.
So Richard, the lion heart, it is off at war.
That is actually the sun, which is her o of the big one, right?
That's the biggest her o around here.
That's everyone's o.
Man, when that thing's in the sky, it's it.
And earth shines and glows with his adoration, but they never touch.
She's virginal.
All of her children are on her surface and her dress is made of their expressions into the atmosphere.
And once before she lost her shoes in Cinderella because her sisters were Mars and Jupiter and Saturn.
And a ball was coming and she lost her.
Her shoes.
What are a woman's shoes?
They're her ice caps, a crystal slipper that fits.
These stories are older than humans.
They're older than life.
Okay.
These stories go back to when there were bacteria on earth, which happens to be 90% of what we're made of science, not fairy tales.
And these things we call fairy tales contain knowledge that no one's ever found because they are wave seeds from crossing that happen between worlds.
What that means is not up to me or you to decide.
It's just up to us to not deny it until we can understand a lot more about why.
I haven't decided anything.
I only know what I can see in the language and in nature and link and demonstrate to you easily in ways a child will understand.
So what is the bow that Robin draws?
Who does he draw it for?
The difference between a snake and a shepherd is purpose.
Okay.
A snake's purpose is to sort of tyrannize.
Yeah.
Now I don't mean a snake in nature.
Snakes in nature are good and snakes are the crossing agent.
But if they're not, if you sing right to them, they become angels.
Bing.
Right.
Now they're the most trustworthy horse you could possibly or stalling you could possibly find.
But in the presence of a snake that organizes other snakes, they're just like they're like rapists and murderers and gangs.
And you know, a lot of our cultures are really mostly like that.
And there's a sign which is like this.
That means snake and snake and no mothers.
Notice that the penis of the man has two balls and the bull oxen of God has rings.
Torks.
They call them the rings.
These are the memories of the mothers and the grandmothers.
And a test actually means a co-emptition of the mothers and the grandmothers, all of them back to the beginning of time.
Not just on earth.
Not just in humans.
Everything.
The whales, the dolphins, the birds.
Everything.
The vermin.
Everything.
The wheat.
Okay.
The grass.
The weeds.
The mushrooms.
Everything.
In rings, in a sphere.
That's how the world came.
I'm not making this up.
It's not a story.
It has nothing to do with drugs.
Zero.
This has to do with just looking at nature.
Just clearly look at it.
Okay.
It's one sphere of life.
And there's layers of it.
And they're all intimately intermeshed.
If you rip that apart and start replacing it with machines, you're doing the same thing to your mind because your mind is that.
And the way that this life instructs the space that we live on is absolutely crucial both to our intelligence and our evolutionary development.
If we burn that down to make machines, it doesn't come back.
See, you can't establish anciently evolved relational webs of life upon which your own intelligence floats like an emergent property.
In other words, like that candlelight.
Okay.
Now, if you take away all that wax, which is the relation, that candle will never be lit again.
When it goes out, it's gone.
And that can be done far more easily than humans are aware of in their hell bent on accomplishing it as far as I can tell.
We need a Robin Hood.
Let's explain a little more about how this gets going.
Robin Hood is sort of the proxy of the empty throne.
King Richard the Sun is far away fighting battles, gloriously leading us through space, right?
It's an absolute fact.
And his shield spread out before the entire solar system as he rockets through space and the planets orbit around him, making the most incredible spiral graph you could possibly imagine as a solar hero is just leading us, the pod hero of our entire universe, right?
Meanwhile, just the glory of his passing is enough to give us life and to color the earth with all of the hues of nature and living beings and all of the glory of human possibility and hope of intelligence and everything we've fought to become,
which we must not ever allow to be squandered by snakes.
We've overrun everything.
There's old indigenous tales about this all over the world.
I won't share them with you here.
We don't have time.
I've already gone too long.
Sure would is what you can trust because it's backed by co-empt petition.
What is a petition?
It means I get small petite eye on I turns on.
I get small.
I see with the small eye of the child who is her oh, but I'm a man.
And when I draw the bow, I draw for the purpose of all beings, not me ever.
It has nothing to do with me winning.
Only for them may I win.
There is no me to rise to any kind of victory.
No, I fall beneath them.
I fall low.
And when I fall low, I raise them up above me in a ring.
And this makes me their hero.
I act in their proxy for their hearts and dreams and their most true and deep purposes.
When we do this together, we are absolutely unstoppable.
I don't know why you can ask if it's science or magic or religion or nonsense.
It's actually a fact.
Anyone can show you we do it in sports teams.
So there's the evidence right that we are pod creatures.
We work best like this for a purpose that is very clearly defined in a context.
We understand on a mission of valor and victory and excellence,
which means literally to free all prisoners.
So when the evil sheriff nodding ham.
When he took over everything and recruited the people to attack each other in his name,
in the name of a tyrant above him.
I don't remember the whole story at the moment.
Gone on too long here.
But when the sheriff recruited like the people themselves to become snakes,
and then Robin went into the wood of shorewood, which is of course a hard one you can trust because it's not for him.
It's for everyone.
He took simple people and bound them together and gave them the unstoppable power
that would lift them all to back to liberty.
It wasn't about violence.
The people can't afford violence.
So their own sons and daughters that have been recruited to the police and the cops.
They can't have a war here, people.
Any hero.
He went right into their banquet, if I remember.
Challenged them by tossing a sacred deer sacrifice on the table.
And then taking them on right in their nest.
Because he knew that he was the proxy of the empty throne.
He was the champion of all living beings.
And his maid made Mariam.
Well...
She was like the sky in the ocean.
She was...
She was everything.
She was our own mothers and all mothers.
She was the meaning of mothers and children and beings of every kind.
And he was her champion.
And so because that's true, the reason why little pods of people connected to each other
within for each other and their world within for the history of life on earth
without any extra nonsense.
Without any religion.
You can have the toys of religion and science and folk wisdom and art and all of these things.
That's fine, but let's not take them too seriously because first and foremost
we must have the purpose of to be for life itself and intelligence each other in our world
for the treasures that we've come to learn and be together in life.
In the moments when we finally are free of the machine.
Long enough to get a glimpse.
Or when we fight free of the cage for each other to make a way as we're about to do now.
But the kind of fighting we're going to do is not going to be any kind of violence.
It's conversion. Again, you can't afford violence.
So you've got to win with beauty and finesse.
You have to turn the enemy's force against it so that you don't have to hurt them much.
But mostly hurt themselves or just fail.
And here's how it happens.
Once all of the beings in all of time are on your side and other beings we don't even know about possibly.
If there are any others, they probably don't want the earth to be torn apart by machines.
That's just a basic presumption that there's not a bunch of evil things out there trying to tear apart the earth
because generally life isn't like that.
It connects to itself so it likes having little diverse bubbles of really unique incredible powerful intelligence to connect to.
No, they all connect in the network so you don't want to tear it down.
Robin Hood's not just the hero of earth. He's the hero of everyone.
That's why he's the hero of the sun as well as the mother.
And he's the hero under the little hood.
That says, you know, I represent her, not you.
The little hood that goes over my head.
Yeah, not the one that feels back to reveal.
No, no, the snake.
Not that the snake is bad. Again, ungoverned by mothers.
Two towers like the SS.
Yeah, problem.
Not see, not see you.
What's you, Jew?
Jew is you, you tree.
Yeah, Jew, you, same tree.
Not see you, not see, see how that works.
Now that's just a toy.
I mean, I'm not saying that's true, but there's something going on in our languages that no one's paying any attention to,
whether it's playful or poetic, however you want to talk about it.
You should probably look a lot more closer than anyone's looked yet because no one has seen it.
No one. And people want to claim it, right?
Magicians want to claim it and secret cults want to claim it.
And, you know, all these kinds of traditions want to claim that they know, they don't know.
There's no evidence of it lying around.
I can show you things in your alphabet that will make you go, like,
it'll make you have a birthday party.
Let's put it that way.
Robin of the hood.
Yeah, he comes back.
He's the proxy of the empty throne.
So because of that, he owns all space and all space is intelligence.
Therefore, his arrow doesn't have to travel.
You can shoot last arrived first.
It'll split whatever's arrow at the bullseye because it hits every bullseye in all of time for every single purpose.
If his purpose is so pure and true that it pleases as many beings as humanly possible,
then he actually owns space and time itself because he becomes their avatar.
And the people around him, his pot, he's not him by himself.
See, Robin's not like this.
Robin is actually weirdly, he's probably like this thing here, but at least he is like this.
He's the avatar of this, you know, the thinking, acting, leading avatar.
Or maybe even this, who knows?
Maybe he's got an advisor behind him and he's just the best proxy of the empty throne or something.
But nonetheless, he's a being full.
He's an animal in the context of other beings intimately.
We are the kind of being where we don't even become animals until we're in a group like this intimate.
And this is kind of a sign of that's why I keep holding it up.
And what happens to us is we go into systems that break this apart.
And they hide this thing with stories about fear and necessity and war and duty and lies and fashion and style and religion.
The religion that happens is what happens when we do that, okay?
And we act and live and learn in this way with all the circles of life,
and all of the sort of Russian doll of all the different layers of anciently evolved living relation from which our own bodies and intelligence arise.
And we have a mutual relationship with these forces, right?
We can't just crush them down and then think that we're going to be okay in machines in space.
It's not going to happen that way.
So Robin Hood, because he is the true hero, the one who induces her oh, in every mother in all of time,
they all get all wiggly and squiggly when he comes around.
Because even the guys do, okay, come on.
Even the guys do. They know too.
Everyone's for Robin. Everyone except the snakes.
But the common people can become very confused when it's been a long time since Robin was near.
They're frightened. Those snakes are terrifying. It's not a joke.
Not all of them will join Robin.
But he probably doesn't get too many experts.
He gets maybe a few experts if he's lucky mostly.
What he gets is common people, and he lifts them up far above him.
That's why he's her own.
So when he shoots that arrow, every woman behind him, every man, every arrow that's ever been,
and it's almost as if the arrow is already at the bullseye before he's shot it.
He owns the bullseye. He owns the space between it.
If assassins come for him, how will they get through the space?
Things will destroy them on the way.
They'll be trying to run through something like sludge.
They'll be having accident after accident.
Things just aren't going to work right.
No, Robin is unstoppable.
And you are Robin because you succeeded across that in that exact kind of contest.
And it's a contest to free all prisoners.
Not one or two, not some. All of them.
Yes, all of them.
The most desperate ones first.
The most broken and lost, the most forgotten ones first.
Those ones go up first, not last.
That's how the mothers feel in general.
They like the little one.
The one that doesn't have the same chance.
And Robin does too.
So these stories, Cinderella, Robin Hood,
they're the stories of our world.
They're the stories of intelligence.
The stories of our own conception.
Of co-empetition.
And co-empetition isn't a bunch of snakes fighting over who gets to rule.
Who gets to dominate with a mean, you know,
biting snake penis that just crushes you and crushes life
and rises higher and crushes life and rises higher.
It's just rigidly egoic.
Just telling you that you're just disposable,
sex objects, whatever.
Makes you wear a tie, makes you wear makeup
so that you can signal that you're willing to be sexually surveilled
by strangers in public.
Even in your home.
No.
No.
No. Robin Hood is every child.
And he wants to make his mother and father both have those.
Because herro is the father's, though. I mean, come on.
How does the father have a no? He dreams about her having a no.
So, herro is his-o.
I mean, come on. It's all one big-o with a dot in the middle.
Oh, by the way, you know, the snake is sort of the rod,
but if you're holding the rod, then you control it.
If the rod's biting you, then you don't control it.
It's just smacking you in the head.
That's like a police baton. Bang, bang, bang, right?
But if you spin a rod, you have a ring.
And then you have the circle and the king.
And the one who holds the ring and rod is the proper sovereign,
is a shepherd who can lead and build these pods
with profound intimacy and intelligence.
Again, no religion. It's human action, right?
A shepherd. Sort of like the coach, but also the team leader
and the one who's the potential in the team.
It's like this hand. They're all different.
They each have a different function.
So, we make these little pods like dolphins or whales, cell groups.
And we don't really make them as individuals.
It's actually that we become individuals in them finally,
so that when we're not in them, we don't even feel like we're really human exactly.
And we try to be this. It doesn't work.
That's not co-empetition.
That's like the opposite. That's like co-me inflation or something.
I don't even know. I'm going to have to think about what to call it,
but I think you understand.
So, when Robin pulls the bow, he's pulling the bow of the entire sky.
It's the sky bow.
It's all of the stars in all time, in the mother space and time,
all of them for all beings, for the purposes of all beings.
He's fallen down on the ground and basically said,
I am your bow. Use my arm. Fly, you know, far.
Send me far in your name.
So, he's emptied the throne entirely. There's no Robin left.
He's the avatar of the mothers. He's the co-em petitioner.
He wins before the contest even starts, so he has no fear.
What he fears is the terror of beauty.
A beauty so unthinkable that he cannot ever feel truly worthy of it.
And that, myself, is what I fear in talking of such matters with strangers.
And ordinarily, these things are not really told in public.
They're kept very private because they're matters of power.
And yet now is such a dire time that we need to share knowledge in new ways
and explore and learn together in ways that don't belong to any knowledge system.
They don't belong to any author. They belong to all of us.
And they're just new ways of seeing.
They're just things to explore and examine with new lenses,
new ways of thinking about language, relationship, the old stories.
I will tell you this.
When Earth loses her slippers, like in Cinderella, a ball will come.
And it will not be friendly. It could be very dangerous.
I'd be concerned about that.
Because the Earth is an egg and she attracts suitors.
And one of the ways she does that is sort of by dancing.
We all understand that if the woman's kind of, you know, wiggling, right?
And the man gets like, wow, hey, she's, that girl moves.
It's kind of the same with an egg. She vibrates.
She kind of, she sort of calls the competitors to her to win.
And it starts at the hood, right? Back at the little guardian.
The guardian of the garden where this is, we're eating, it's going to take place
and they're going to leave the garden together
and the snake's going to be there talking to them and everything.
It's going to be just like in the old times in conception land, believe me.
It's going to be, that's where the garden is.
The angel with the spinning sword that guards the garden.
Oh, there's so much I want to share with you, but we're out of time more soon.
Thank you for, if you've stayed with me all this time, I'm very surprised.
I hope you've enjoyed it.
We've had a vigil, a vigil for the ancient archers.
There's so much more to say, but just understand the difference between
the sort of vipers, which are good when the right song unifies them.
And Robin Hood and the merry folk of sure would forest by my for now.
Thanks. We'll learn together soon.
