Hey everybody. So I am not in my usual haunts down at Fisherman's Wharf. This is
the giant prison complex for people to, I don't know, be trapped in.
That's I think Angel Island and you can see a bit of Alcatraz out there. That's
the bay. This is the giant prison complex that overlooks it. I mean if you look
around here what you're gonna see is mostly just boxes, right? Boxes with
windows. There's a dragonfly. Nice sign of life.
Effectively, cities are traps for human beings and they're deadly to living
things in general. Though there are some synanthrope, creatures and organisms
that thrive where humans are. Yep. Crows, ravens, blue jays, magpies, rats, mice,
cockroaches. Let's see what else.
Those. Joggers. Seagulls, raccoons, opossums, mosquitoes, bedbugs, fleas,
ants, various species of beetles, book lice, lice, what else, sparrows, blackbirds,
starlings, tourists. Let's see, I guess I'm gonna cross here. Extremely expensive
automobiles. I saw, I don't know, a Ferrari last night when I was coming home
that was probably, I don't know, a $250,000 car and it probably had nitro in it
because it was spitting fire out of its tailpipes explosively.
Of course, you know, the humans plant these trees and I think the trees in the
city, we've got something going on here. Not sure what it is exactly. Could be
pulling this tree out. Doesn't look good. Doesn't look good. Or no, maybe they're
putting one in. Yeah, it looks like they're putting one in. I see the trees in
the city as heroic, as saintly, angelic. They're giving, they're giving their
lives, trapped in cement. Very few symbionts get down under that cement. It's
hard to build a microbiome in such a, how should we put it, in such a vacuous
environment, right? There's a life vacuum everywhere here. It's pavement, cars, boxes
and buses. How did I get trapped here? That's a long story. It involves some abuse
by the San Francisco Police Department, but that's certainly not the only causal
factor. Some of my own choices, decisions, responses to situations got me stuck
here. I used to be a kind of a hero here in that I would go around every day
downtown and fix computers and set up networks for Apple products. I've been
servicing and repairing and learning about Apple products since they were
invented and I'm a Mac expert still to this day. Although my expertise is
slightly dated. I can still solve damn near any problem I can find. That's a
software problem. I'm not a hardware guy. Though I used to be able to fix hardware
too, back when you could open shit up and replace components. Yeah, various bad
things happened. Probably not that useful to run through the history, but I got
stuck here. I've been here now for about 28 years, I think. Wild guess, but I think
that's about what it was. It's a rough place to live for a person who is
really in touch with nature. It also gets harder and harder as one gets older.
I was probably among the first waves of tech entry coming into the city. I mean,
I'm sure there were waves before me, right? There were telephone tech people,
there were cable tech people, there were electronic or electrician tech people,
there were plumber tech people, lots of different, lots of different tech
vocations. But the computer tech vocations eventually overwhelmed the
majority of the population, right? We became the most profuse and perhaps
dynamic population. When I first came here, I was publishing an art and
literary journal called Cyanosis. You can get a copy from me if you really want one.
I did that. I made two issues. They took thousands of hours each to build and
produce. I did it almost entirely by myself, with the exception of the
contributors. And my editor for issue two, Daniel Davidson, who committed
suicide shortly after contributing his services to that issue. Dan was a very
interesting and aggressively intellectual cat who had a heart valve due to
suffering damage during an operation where he was infected with hep C.
And so you could hear Dan's heart and it would just go click, click, click, click,
click, click, click. I'm not quite that fast unless he was really upset. But I used to,
I would say like,
that was my Dan Davidson impression. We used to kind of joke about that.
He was very mischievous, playful, but severe. And we were friends. He was a poet and writer who
I published in Cyanosis. There were many brilliant poets and writers here in San Francisco at that
time and actors and musicians and all kinds of people. There probably still are,
but I think they're buried because it's pretty hard for us to get housing in places like that.
And it can be a little loud here to put it mildly. Apparently people think that
machines that make rapid consecutive explosions are somehow, how shall I put this, charismatic?
Of course, I think exactly the opposite. I think machines that make loud explosions should
explode. Like there should be a significant chance of explosion every time you use them.
Or maybe implosion so that it only kills the person using it.
Yeah, poets and writers, musicians, dancers, performance artists. We have difficulty
affording places like that, right? But people that work at Facebook and Google don't have so
much trouble. And even back when I was a technician, I used to make fairly amazing money by myself.
Though that was a long, long time ago. And I took a lot of hits. Eventually one of them
knocked me down, one or two of them knocked me down in a really bad way. So that pretty much
ended my vocation as a technician. I'm presently walking home from returning a rental car.
That was a bit of an adventure. I rarely drive.
And I've been on a trip
and just got back last night. Thankfully, I was able to find a parking space in my neighbourhood
so that I didn't have to get up too early to return the car. One of the nice features of living
in a city is art. And this is kind of a cool piece.
Notice the five symmetry here. Five fingers. Each finger with three joints except the thumb,
which has two. We could call those fingers working members in the thumb of thinking member.
The legs have three segments. They end in star appendages. The arms have three segments. They
end in star appendages. And the thinking member has two segments and contains the primary sensing
organs that would be very difficult to imagine if we merely saw a hand. I suggest that this
organizational structure, which some might refer to as a fractal, that would be unfortunate
because once they refer to it that way, basically it becomes dismissed. The idea of a fractal is
used to dismiss certain forms of geometry that have implications so astonishing, so far beyond
fractals that they would wreck science. Very few people will ever have the opportunity to understand
anything about that because it's the kind of thing that requires an experience of inner revelation
after long seeking, perhaps luck,
questing, or crisis. Crisis can bring out prodigy in human beings. Even the crisis of living
in such a lifeless, well, the city isn't exactly lifeless, right? It's filled with mechanical
life like those legs. They're not lifeless. There's beings inside them and beings have to die
constantly to support them and this whole bizarre mess.
So, I suggest that the hand's structure and the body's structure,
they're not merely fractaline, fractaline. If you see this, it doesn't suggest this.
There's nothing about the hand that would suggest eyes or ears or a nose or a mouth
or teeth or the animal inside my mouth.
This tongue thing, that's like an animal. I like to think of all of our organs as a complex zoo
and a family of creatures. Each with their own characteristics, behaviors, needs, functions,
relationships, vulnerabilities, all these things. So, nothing about the hand would suggest this
and that's the problem with the fractal metaphor. The fractal metaphor doesn't show that
upscale or downscale, you can get astonishing, unexpected, staggering,
um, integrative expressions of the character, potential, and history
of the downscale or upscale structures. So, my point is that we are like this
at the level of the body. There's an upper level that has extra senses,
shocking abilities, shocking senses, that really there are very few records of.
Some of the yogis might speak of what are referred to as cities, not cities, but S-I-D-H-I-S,
probably a Sanskrit word, Siddhis, and these are non-ordinary abilities.
But even the Siddhis are extremely limited compared to the actual dimensionality
and capacity of our extended being, the being that extends beyond the body
and even beyond time space into dimensions and forms that would obliterate our lexicons.
Were those lexicons exposed to them or were we exposed to them?
The traffic light, what a bizarre phenomenon. Think about it, every person you've ever met,
every accidental opportunity, every accident, every moment of luck in time and space and relation
was arbitrated by traffic lights. My parents met because traffic lights, if you think about it,
the time that you stop at a traffic light determines where you will be in the future
and where you will not be. So, our whole society, our lives, our deaths, our birds
are arbitrated by these bizarre machines. Earlier today, while driving, I saw a green light that
was all glitched out and digital glitchiness is a really trippy phenomenon. Resembling,
resembling problems in cognition like schizophrenia and grandiosity,
perhaps manic depression, a variety of other
deviations from what we think of as norms, even though norms are statistical and probabilistic
and actual human beings can never be that. It's impossible. So, it's weird, we have these ideas
about probability and extending characteristics or vulnerabilities or abilities over cohorts.
Now, there are motor vehicles on the sidewalk, which can easily kill pedestrians or cripple them.
So, yeah, we have this mathematical overlay. Language is also an overlay
on experience and cognition. The language and cognition, how should we say this?
For most modern humans, cognition is much broader than language, but language profoundly
impacts cognition. Oh, wow, I hear a long ass time ago. Oh, shit. I haven't been. I used to go all over
the city. These days, I tend to keep to a pretty modest little circuit. So, it's kind of weird for
me to be out here in the city proper, in the daylight, with all of the activity and noise
and boxes, boxes, boxes everywhere. It's interesting, you know, if you think about it,
each little box is a bit like a universe of its own or a world of its own that's connected
para-umbilically to all the other boxes and all the people. So, when you go, for example,
into that bank, you're going into a particular kind of womb, a particular universe that changes you,
it changes your role, it affects your destiny. It's a little world lit of its own and all the
little shops, they try to be inviting, right? And one imagines, or one may imagine, that this
feature of how humans build cities is analogous in some way to wombs,
to the place where we undergo gestation. And so, all these little stores and shops and buildings
and restaurants and infrastructure institutions, corporations, these are all bizarre impoverished
representations of worlds or potential incarnations. This is a property management building.
Our world is truly bizarre. Here's some more noise.
So, for a highly sensitive person like me, the city and all of its noise and machines
is a fucking nightmare, right? It's just new ways of getting stabbed in the face moment to moment.
I've put up with it for, like I said, about 28 years. And, you know, some people think like I'm
too sensitive or I'm not resilient. I've got someone particular in mind. In fact, I was extremely
resilient when I came here. But over time, this place burnt me down pretty bad. It took a lot,
but it got to me. Here's another place that people like me cannot live and really would not want to
live. I mean, look at that fucking nightmare. It's hideous. There's nothing alive about that.
I guess it's supposed to look like art, but if art looks like that, I'll pass, thank you very much.
So yeah, right now, for those of you who haven't been to San Francisco,
I'm on Van Ness and I'm returning from Fisherman's Wharf. This is Van Ness. A lot of these buildings
have been torn down and rebuilt. That building right there is very important to me. I wasn't
expecting to come across it today, but that building there, St. Luke's Episcopal Church,
we used to do Zazen there when I first came to San Francisco for like the first two years.
We had a Zen group that met there. Our teacher was Joe Bobro, kind of an interesting cat.
One of Robert Akin Roshi's students noticed that I call Akin a Roshi, but I don't do that with Joe.
Even though I was at his transmission ceremony and there's an important reason why I don't do that,
but I'll leave that story aside since it would be a little bit indelicate to tell it.
Robert Akin Roshi was a brilliant humanitarian Zen teacher. He learned Zen in a prison camp in
Japan in World War II. One of his Dharma heirs, John Tarrant Roshi, was my first Zen teacher.
Here's another building that has obviously been fairly recently, past 20, 30 years probably
rebuilt. Here's an actual building that matters and is incredibly beautiful.
Look at that gorgeous thing, even though it's again very boxy,
but that beautiful Mandala light circle is just amazing, just really amazing.
Probably getting to the populous area where
be good to wear a mask. This is really interesting. These first republic buildings,
they have these water features in them. This water feature is hypnotic. If you watch it long enough,
your vision will begin to warp and weave and change and breathe in a way that resembles
the experience of visual psychedelia. There are many features of water that are like this that
most people have never really noticed. They're really important features. To make this feature
work, you have to follow the flow down and then go back up and follow it down again and then go
back up and follow it down and then over time your vision will transform, literally transform.
One thing I do like about the city is the incredible diversity of peoples here.
I'm, unlike many intellectuals, I'm an anthropile, so I love humans. I love diversity. I'm friendly,
I'm soft. Oh wow, is this actually Guitar Center? Is this place open? Holy crap, place still exists.
Man, I'd kind of love to go in here, but I don't think it's going to happen today.
Hmm, I'm kind of glad it's still here though.
People are looking at me funny, but that's okay. I'm not tripping.
Oh yeah, another sin and throat. I'm very fond of the pigeon, which is actually a form of dove,
rock dove. So where was I? Oh yeah, Zen stuff. Yeah, we used to sit Zazen there. I was the
Giki for a while, and my old roommate, Nick Otavio, met him there. Kind of a weird cat actually.
But it was a really good experience to have that church to sit in. There's a giant,
what is it called? There's a giant bell. I can't remember what they're called.
It's a very particular kind of bell that could also, it's a huge black like metal pot.
And that bell is so powerful, it can ring the whole building. And it came from Japan and apparently
was associated with someone, if I recall correctly. What is that thing called? It's right on the tip
of my mind, but I can't quite get there. Often when you're stuck in a situation like that,
the best thing to do is soften. Don't keep going at the thing. It may come back to me.
But yeah, there's a giant black bell in there that's old and from Japan,
and very beautiful, profound and rich.
So yeah, many nights of Zazen there. We used to sit
what, two periods every Monday. Back then I was dating a girl named Kristen,
one of the important loves of my life.
Memories. I've got some. But yeah, these days I don't know where the creative people are,
where the poets and writers and dancers and artists. I mean, there's a lot of artists here,
graphic artists, painters, people who draw. But it's hard for me to meet them back in the day
because I was publishing Cyanosis. I had a venue, right? To meet people. And I was young and dynamic,
had a car, could drive around, go to parties. God, there were some amazing get-togethers.
Big machines. Moving giant chunks of cement. It's really exciting. All for cars. I mean,
if you look, if you just analyze the space here, what you'll see is that most of it belongs to
automobiles, right? Almost as much as belongs to buildings. So in terms of quote, who owns what?
Machines and corporations, franchises and landlords. That's what this place is about.
Look at that big Honda sign. My goodness. Because we don't see enough Honda in the world.
We need more Honda. A lot more. Come on, people. Turn it up.
It's hard to know how many of these buildings have... It's funny, I went in this, I went in
this Honda place one time. By the way, just to be clear, look at how, look at how fucking empty this is.
Just like there's nothing in here. Nothing. This is a big, empty building with a lot of Honda
symbols. That's mostly it. One or two cars. Yeah, I was in there one time trying to buy a car many,
many years ago. Bevmo. Because you can't have enough beverages. There's no such thing as enough.
Okay.
Flat 195 delivery fee. Order in seconds, delivered in minutes. Download the app.
I probably could have been doing voice work. When I first came here, my goal was to become a
performance artist. I had a couple of heroes in that regard. One of them was Rindy Eckert,
who I think is absolutely fucking brilliant. And the Margaret Jenkins Dance Ensemble,
also absolutely fucking brilliant. There used to be this place
called Theater Arteau. I don't know if it still exists or not. And that was a hub of
intense, amazing creativity. There also used to be a place that's probably shut down now
called the Marsh, which was a place for solo performance in the mission.
Pretty cool. Small venue, very intimate, brilliant. Here's a lot of fucking buildings,
because again, you can't have enough boxes with squares in them.
So I hope you're enjoying my little walkthrough memory lane and
my orbital relations with memory and situation.
I love shit like this because it's really hard right now for human beings in lots of different
ways. And it would suck to be a child in this time or even a young person.
Most people's lives, at least in cities, are dominated by the device I'm holding in my hand,
furiously dominated. And that's a miserable way to live life.
But one of the things that very few people realize, and it's a terrifying fact,
wow, is this an actual barber shop? I think it is. Next level. There is no one in there. So yeah,
that's pretty next level. It's fucking vacant. That's about as next level as you can get.
Like most of our lives and most of the aspects of our lives that were once rich,
intimate, beautiful, playful, mischievous, adventurous, exquisite. Now they're next level instead.
Anyway, one of the things very few people recognize is that we are now in competition with
the data we produce. Surveillance videos, photographs, video cameras, everywhere,
endless amounts of analytic data produced by our electronic activity. That is
more important than our lives. Our government built a city in some
weird... Is this place actually open? Are they serving food in here? No, this place is dead.
This used to be a fun sort of a smorgasbord place. Tommy's joint. I don't know if you can see in there.
Kind of famous, obviously closed now. But yeah, we're in direct competition with the data we're
producing and we're losing. So first we were in competition with machines and buildings and
streets and we were losing that competition. But now electronic nonsense is more important
than living beings, particularly more important than humans. The government is probably far more
interested in preserving the data that I've produced, the analytic data,
the financial data and so on, than they are in protecting my life or my well-being.
And that's the process that's going to continue to accelerate and invade new dimensions of our
lives as furiously and as quickly as is possible. I think that's wrong and tragic and we should
resist that in any way we can together, with and for each other, for the history and future of life
on our world. This is a big adventure for me. Oh wow, here's the Tesla dealership. Never seen this.
Very Apple-esque.
This is kind of trippy. Here's the um
Here's the shell.
Here's the frame actually of the Tesla.
Technical miracle. Too bad we couldn't make some of those that actually helped humanity or
you know our intelligence, our capacity to live beautiful lives together, protect each other
and war and poverty and disease and homelessness and hunger. But instead we have extremely exotic
automobiles that you can buy and show off your wealth, privilege and ability to get the fuck
away from whatever might be bothering you. I'm remembering some quote from Wise Blood,
a film, great film actually, very strange, that was used in a song called Jesus Built My Hot Rod.
Starts out with nobody with a good car. I can't remember the whole quote. Like needs to worry about
anything. The only thing that matters is what you can get away from, something like this.
I really, I just can't remember it. I used to know the quote and quote it all the time but
it's been many years. Good car. I'm getting close to the street where I'm gonna head finally toward
my neighborhood. Here's another exciting city venue. Burger King. Because burgers and royalty
go together. And also here round table. This is another brilliant theft from Arthurian literature.
I'm having fun actually. This is kind of trippy. Big street. Lots of buildings.
More gigantic prison complexes.
I used to have keys to a lot of those. Some of these ones right here actually because I had clients in them.
I felt really important in a way. Not like ego importance but just
I felt useful, necessary, and that I had a meaningful role as a technician. Because I could
solve problems that would otherwise devastate people. I fixed machines all the time. I recovered
people's data. I remember people came one time from a design firm. Prop and Garin, when I first
met them, they came to me at PC World and they had a bunch of like 2 gigabyte data backup tapes.
They couldn't get the data off these tapes.
And I had a couple of drives that read these tapes. And I found a way to rebuild the directory on the
tapes and got all their data back. And I won them as a client. Had them as a client for many years.
Good old days. Oh, I remember a big adventure in this place. Wow. Holy crap.
Yeah. There used to be a theater in here. I don't know if there still is.
Yeah. Landmark theaters and BookSync, Opera Plaza. Yeah, I came here. So when I first came to San
Francisco, I was working for a place called the Gia Gallery. And we were funerary activists.
We were activists that helped people to deal with death and to plan their own funerals
and to avoid the rapacious profiteering of funeral directors and funeral homes.
Goods and services in the funeral industry, at least back then and probably to this day,
the profit margin on goods and services in that industry was one to 7,000%.
So I was working at this bizarre art gallery filled with coffins and urns that people could buy,
very reasonable prices, way out in like China Basin in the worst part of town.
And the first night I was there, not the first night, that's not true. Like maybe night,
I was living there. I had interviewed the people that ran it for my first issue of sinosis.
And there was an article on Gia in there. And they so liked the article that they
asked me if I wanted to manage the gallery. So I took the job, brought my musical equipment
and synthesizers there, set all that up in the basement. It had like a, it didn't have a kitchen,
but it had a shower in a bathroom. And so I lived there in the gallery filled with coffins. And
there was a basement that was like a dirt half block long basement, a huge basement.
And that basement was filled with coffin shells and it was downstairs.
And one of the nights I was there, probably a week or two in,
there were these three really amazing paintings.
One was of a girl falling into a well with two sort of Pisces like fish swirling around her.
One was a woman looking into a mirror who had no mouth and there was a child in the mirror behind
her. And there was a third painting that I no longer remember. I wanted to own those paintings
eventually, but one night I had a very powerful sleep paralysis event, which I didn't really
know what that was back then. And in that event, it was truly terrifying, but the beginning was
fairly safe, right? The paintings were mumbling to each other. I'm out in this gallery in the middle
of the night by myself in the worst part of San Francisco. It's all closed up, locked up.
The cop shop there was actually surrounded with barbed wire and like assault walls and shit.
Hmm. So the paintings begin mumbling to each other and I can tell that they're having a conversation
about me and they're talking about how I've come to the city in some way to confront, not just to
confront death, but on a quest to understand the nature of death. And then I've made this decision
and since I've made this decision, this is where the adventure will begin. And then there's like
some terrible banging sound followed by horrible screams, more banging, more screaming. I'm so
terrified. Actually, I'm so I'm so fraught that terror isn't even really an option. I'm beyond
fear. I'm in some bizarre situation I've never been in before. Because when you're out in the
middle of nowhere surrounded by coffins and paintings start babbling about death and there's
like there's a basement filled with coffins underneath you and there's nowhere to go and no
one to call, you don't really have the option of terror. So eventually, I mean I was frozen, I was
paralyzed because I mean I was actually experiencing sleep paralysis. That's a beautiful suit, sir.
It's a wonderful suit. Yeah, I was paralyzed and so I just sort of stayed there. There was a dog
staying there with me and the dog was not doing anything. It was a collie. Wait, was the dog there?
No, the dog wasn't there at night or if it was, it was in a different room. Eventually, I was able
to get up and turn the light on and the next day I talked to the owners. They had told me that people
had had experiences there, unusual experiences. And I went to see a film that I think was called
Truly Madly Deeply at that opera plaza the next night. I didn't stay at the gallery the next night.
I stayed at Alex Gia's house and in Truly Madly Deeply, if I remember correctly and I've got the
name of the film right, a woman's lover who's a musician dies and he brings his ghost friends
to meet her while she's all heartbroken about losing him.
And I went and saw that film and then the next night, the film sort of changed my mind about what
was going on. I saw the film at opera plaza where I just passed and wow.
Wow.
A lot of boxes.
And then I went back to the gallery and I made friends with whatever was there and I just said,
look, I am here. I am open. We can learn and grow and play together. We can dance together in the
night. I put on some music and danced around the gallery and spoke with whatever it was that was
there in a very welcoming and communal sort of intimate way.
Now we sit. Those are homes.
That nightmare is a place to live.
In a city built on the San Andreas Fault, people live in that.
Okay, we're gonna have some pretty serious noise here for a minute probably. We'll see how it goes.
Cars transporting cars transporting cars.
See, I went back to the gallery and sort of made friends
with the spirit of the place.
And after that, I had a fairly good run there. Things went well for quite some time.
How did that job end?
I got mad
at a funerary guide who worked at the columbarium
because he was actually just dicking me around about obtaining some earns that I really wanted
to have in our showroom. And I basically just told him, look, don't fuck around with me.
If you can get these earns really easily, you have the connection, just get us the earns.
Because he was, how shall I put this?
In a very
petulant way, he was fucking with me and trying to play power games with me.
And as an Italian who's kind of a no-nonsense guy when it comes to business,
I wasn't having it.
So I didn't blow up at him, but I did just kind of tell him what time it was in my view.
And he was really close to the owners. So, oh, this is kind of a trippy thing.
I don't know who painted all these locks. They didn't use to be painted.
But this is a sort of spontaneous artwork.
Heartlocks.
Here's a different kind of spontaneous artwork.
So, yeah, that's how I lost that job. There's a bit more to the story, but that's most of it.
Now I am sort of more properly on my way home, pretty hungry, haven't had anything to eat.
It's a long walk from Fisherman's Wharf to my house. I don't know how many miles, maybe
let me take a wild guess and call it six and a half with a lot of hills.
I have a lot further to go, and I will be passing Dan Davidson's house,
where I usually stop and say a little prayer for him. He lost hope.
He was a really brilliant writer, postmodernist. A lot of the poets and writers that I knew and
published were very much a part of the language movement in poetics in the 90s.
And weirdly, the whole pomo, which is short for postmodern scene, is the birthplace of what we
currently think, bizarrely in a way, what we currently think about and talk about as political
correctness. This grew out of a, how shall I put this, where I want to put it in a way that
makes a lot of sense and is clear. It grew out of an intellectually schizogenic fascination with
language. And you can see those roots in the imperatives that underlie the political correctness
movement, although those thrifts have become extremely complex, self-generating, recursive,
entangled. That shit's generating a nightmare, in my view.
But it comes out of the school of semantics, linguistics,
deep fascination with language, and its structure with signs, signifiers.
Language immersion preschool.
Interesting. I like the idea. If we could all learn multiple languages, we would all benefit
dramatically from that, because if you only have a single language, you can't triangulate on meaning,
and different languages have different connotation implications and dimensions.
So if you have multiple languages, you have a vastly improved capacity to entertain meaning.
It doesn't mean it will succeed, but it means you have the opportunity. Here's another place where
artists and writers probably can't live unless they're extremely wealthy.
But we used to live in places like that.
That's an old building, surprising that it hasn't been torn down and renovated,
but I'm sure it's extremely expensive. I think to live in San Francisco today, a survey said
that if you wanted to live as a single person in your own home, not in a home, but in your own
flat or apartment, you need to be making $180,000 a year minimum. Of course, I have a rent-controlled flat, so
I'm still surviving at the moment. Where was I going? Oh yeah, Stan Davidson, language poets.
So a lot of the poets that I knew were fascinated by the intricacies of language and the capacity to
perhaps produce non-ordinary states of mind and consciousness by manipulating language,
and this was a fascination of mine as well. Although eventually, this is a common theme for
me. I may start out very technical and having technical desires, but eventually I come back to
the heart, to lyricism, to intimacy, to beauty. So an example would be I wanted to be kind of a
shredder, a neoclassical shredder on the guitar, but eventually I became much more interested in
music that was slow and beautiful, ethnic, transforms the space, rich, deep, sometimes very
simple, and the same kind of thing happened with poetry. At first I started it out kind of as a
technician in a way, but I became a lyricist, I think, mostly. Can I make it across the street in
eight seconds? Maybe not. So Dan was a language poet and in the 90s they kept cutting the benefits
that he could get. He wasn't working any job. A brilliant scholastic though, a brilliant academician
in his own way. A very, very amazing writer, again in his own unique way. But he lost hope
as the benefits that he could get shrank and as his health problems became more and more severe,
damage to his liver from hep C, depression, isolation, drug use to some degree, mostly just weed,
I think, and maybe psychedelics. But yeah, he had a problem because he was so, so intellectually
severe that it was difficult. Many of us like sort of eventually pushed him out of our lives
because it was just too, too painful to undergo his bizarre spread the damage kind of attacks.
This was a, this is a common disease among intellectuals. They learn about something
that's wrong in the world and they go around yelling about it, yelling at people about it, as if,
as if to assert that ordinary common people have a responsibility to solve these things.
I'll give you an example.
I remember, so there was, there was quite a crew back in those days. There was,
see who I can remember. John McNally, brilliant writer, Jeff Conan, brilliant writer, love that guy,
even though he thinks I'm mad. Daniel Davidson, George Albin, genius, absolutely genius.
And most of these people are completely unknown. If I didn't mention Drew Gardner, him,
God, there's a couple other people whose names I can't remember. And these were, these were sort
of the local crew. And we organized, I mean, we used to spend a lot of time in each other's houses
and hang out. But we, but John McNally used to work at a place called Small Press Traffic,
which was a central hub for poets and writers who were published in small presses like my
magazine, Cyanosis. And I published my magazine and named it that. Cyanosis means you're turning
blue because you've used up the oxygen in your bloodstream. Oh, this is pretty.
Here's a little miniature paradise in the middle of the city. There's a beautiful Brugamensia
Ditura right there and also on the other side and right there. This is a giant Ginko Bilboa tree,
one of the oldest tree species, if I remember correctly.
Huh. Gorgeous. Is that an elm? I'm not sure. So
we used to hang out at Small Press Traffic and have parties and go to readings, write poems.
Anselm Berrigan and his brother were around Ed. They were incredibly, incredibly brilliant. I'm
sure Anselm is teaching in New York these days. I don't know what became of Ed.
I was close friends with Anselm. We did some writing together for a time and almost got killed
by my neighbor's dogs. Had a few adventures. I had some pretty amazing publication parties for
cyanosis. So let's see. Dan, an example. I remember one day I was a PC world working and I went to
South Park and Drew Gardner was there and he mentioned some horrifying atrocity that the
United States was participating in. I don't remember exactly where it was. It could have been in the
Philippines. And he just came up and said, like, do you realize that your tax dollars killed
like seven million people in the Philippines this year? I was like, Drew, I'm having lunch, bro.
What? You think I'm supposed to, how am I going to solve that, right? So this was the kind of
thing that Dan would do all the time. He had this sort of attack dog, intellectual mentality
where he seemed to feel that by attacking people with stories of horror or disaster,
violation, catastrophe, mostly, you know, caused by capitalism and the United States and so on.
But by attacking people with this, he was achieving some kind of moral superiority
or being a moral person. And actually most of what, the primary effect of that, by the way,
this is pretty trippy. She'd start here. So I think Dan would love this, right? This is really
beautiful. I should have filmed the whole thing. Here, let's start at the beginning. I'll walk
back down the hill. So Dan seemed to think that by yelling at people about bad things and atrocities
that they had really nothing personally to do with and couldn't personally affect,
he was somehow aping an activist. And really mostly what that did was cause people to feel pain,
confusion, helplessness, hopelessness, terror, zen.
And lots of other bad feelings. So it didn't fix things in the Philippines or Iraq or Iran
or anywhere else. It just made us all feel miserable. I remember one day during the Rodney
King riots, I went to his house. It was one of the last times I hung out with him. Not the last
time. He came to my house the last time. And he said, did you hear that cops are hunting
African Americans in LA? And I was like, Dan, are you fucking serious? And he said,
yeah, that's what's happening today. I heard it on the NPR. I said, Dan, do you think
that the left also has propaganda? And he said, no, it's, it's what's going on. That's why it's
on the radio. I said, Dan, come on, man. I mean, even if, even if some tiny insane cohort of idiots
is doing something that fucking terrifying and ridiculous and wrong, you can't go around saying
things like that. And we got in the big argument. I started crying. And I just said to him, look,
man, I can't do this. I can't, I can't live this way.
I don't want to fight with you. I mean, I'm just as, as liberal and, you know,
concerned about everybody as you are. But I can recognize the difference between propaganda
and what's actually going on. However imperfectly I may do so.
And you're just so inflammatory. See, that's really interesting. This is the kind of thing
you see on Hay Street all the time. Dan would love that. And I mean, the guy had a good heart.
Like he would help people. He wasn't a bad guy, but he was just too fucking severe.
So he over time became very isolated. And maybe in my own way, I'm not, not, not because of my
severity, but because of other things I've become isolated too. Oh, here's another little,
another little paradise, the Page Street Garden.
Here are all those birds. Birds are very happy here.
Those are the first birds I've heard in a while, though I heard some parrots earlier.
So yeah, I think I'm on Hay Street now and about six blocks up here is where Dan used to live.
One of the first places I came. The reason I was publishing my magazine, the reason I called it
Cyanosis was that the Republicans were attacking arts and education in the 1980s. And I saw arts
and education as the oxygen in the blood, you know, in our social bloodstream.
And I knew I could see what was coming, right?
So I published Cyanosis in an effort to give radical writers and artists and performers
a venue to respond. And it was a big dream. And I bit off way more than I could chew.
Oh, I'm on Page Street, not Hay Street. Okay. Well, that's okay for the moment.
Though I rarely walk on this street, I almost always walk on Hay.
And by the way, that's H-A-I-G-T, not H-A-T-E.
Right. And there's lower hate and upper hate.
And people make sort of some jokey signs about it. But anyway, so that was my idea in publishing
my magazine. I wanted to give artists and writers and performers and also scientists and doctors
and things. In my second issue, I had an interview with a neurosurgeon Francis Conley,
who's a brilliant woman, one of the first women neurosurgeons, as I understand it.
So, yeah, Dan.
It was a bit of a, I mean, I take it as a bit of a jab, what Dan did because
he was my assistant editor for the second issue of cyanosis. And when he killed himself,
he did so by suffocating himself. Obviously, he took some sedatives and then like,
sorry about the graphic nature of this, but he wrapped a, wrapped a plastic bag around his head.
I remember one day I was on the bus going to see Jeff Conant, our mutual friend, and
saw the coroner's van outside Dan's house. Didn't know what that meant until I got to
Jeff's house, then I found out what it meant. Well, I don't really want to end on such a dark note.
Many of us are still alive. Jeff's got a child. Jeff Conant, he lives over in the East Bay,
I think, somewhere that we may have moved by now. Oh, here's a little mini bookstore.
It's pretty awesome.
We have a lot of these around here. It's a nice feature of our varsity. And this is the hay.
This is the sort of the beginning of the lower hay. I'm going to be getting one of my favorite
meals down here. It's a cheese steak from the Metro Cafe. I used to live in this area when I first
finally moved to San Francisco after leaving Gia and spending some time again in Sonoma County,
where I'm from. I lived about eight blocks that way off of DeViz on like Broderick or something.
And I used to come down here all the time, had a girlfriend here eventually, Amy Ladotto. She was
amazing, Stanford student. She lived up the street near Dan. Her building burnt down one year after
we broke up, about a year after we broke up. Yeah, this is the lower hay.
Urban herbs. And I'm going to go get myself a cheese steak and stop by Dan's house and
have a little prayer for him. That was a tough day when we lost him. And even though I wasn't close
with him when he died, I still love the guy when he was one of my teachers and mentors.
So thank you for joining me on my walk through the city today. Hope you enjoyed it, even the grim
parts. There's lots of other stories to tell. I had some in mind. I wonder if I want to take
the time to tell one. Nah, I'll save that for another time. All blessings to you. May you be
safe and healthy. And may you and those you love no peace and well-being, joy, hope and faith in
your lives. Bye-bye for now, everybody.
First place I got my haircut in the city when I worked at the zip zap. And that led me to a party,
which was one of the first places I read. Made like 15 friends that night. Last story for the day.
Bye-bye folks.
