When we are courageous enough to examine situations that are common to our mundane experience,
we often discover very shocking situations underlying them, very unexpected situations
that are nothing like our common thought or expectation.
In some cases, nothing like the language that we are familiar with.
There's something very interesting happening right now.
And the amazing thing, one of the amazing things about it, is that it's happening in
two completely different universes.
In mine, I am imagining people listening to what I am saying someday, but I do not
know when or where or who, or even for sure that anyone ever will.
And I am composing what I am saying right now, in my mind, with the expectation that
in some distant place from me that I know nothing about much whatsoever, someone will
receive these signals and will transform them in their minds into what we refer to as understanding.
But with what faculty am I composing what I say, or with what faculties, and with what
faculties will you, my audience, transform those signals into something meaningful to
you?
And how can I know much about what the result of that transformation will be, for unless
I could inhabit your mind, I cannot have any real understanding of what that experience
is about.
Now what's so fascinating about this?
Well, there's a lot here that's really pretty shocking.
One of the interesting features is that for me, the world, as I understand and experience
it, happens not in my mind so much, since my mind isn't necessarily a container, but
as my mind, so that if I am feeling a sense of wonder about the world, it is my mind that
is in wonder, and if I am feeling a sense of fear about the world, my mind is the fear.
And so too, we must imagine with your mind.
And so although we could be standing together in the same room, we are in many important
ways in different worlds, since the world, as we understand it, is in, or not in, is
our minds, right?
Or we might say is reflected, uniquely reflected in our minds, or uniquely understood or perceived
experienced in our minds.
We use language as one of the ways to cross what we imagine as a gap between minds.
That gap is very strange, since it does not merely distinguish our minds, it also connects
them together and informs them, we might even say, we've got it backwards, they're a lot
more connected than they could possibly be distinct.
So the gap between minds is interesting, it has both features at once, it both connects
us, or we originate even there, and we are distinguished by it.
But there's another interesting feature here, which is that I'm speaking as though I imagine
you are with me now, here in the place that I am, yet there's no way for me to know in
what place of time you may receive or decode my signals.
It could be tomorrow, it could be years from now, I have no idea what circumstances you
will receive my signals in, I know nothing about you at all, and yet I can speak as if
it were possible for you and I to share information in a way that's meaningful for you to understand
my signals.
I have some kind of faith that my encoding, transmission, your reception, and decoding,
so to speak, will succeed.
And I guess we have this faith partly from experience, but it's actually a very peculiar
kind of faith when you think about it, for although we pretend that words have meanings
by themselves, they don't.
The meaning of any signal is uniquely transformed by the context and orientations of the recipients
yet so far I suspect that just about everything I've said is relatively sensible to you.
You can understand at least the superficial implications of my language.
Hopefully we can go a little farther than that and get a glimpse of just how strange
this communications thing we do really is and what some of the underlying suppositions
are because it really is very astonishing.
So I'm composing signals to an unknown recipient somewhere in time.
In a language I know to be familiar to many, but a language for whom each individual will
have a very unique sense, relation, vocabulary, and capacity to or even interest in decoding.
Now what am I composing with and what will my recipients you, and others perhaps somewhat
like you at least in this regard, what will they use to transform or decode my signals?
How do we understand?
What do we understand with?
And it's funny because in our culture we're often inclined to, how shall I put it?
To demote the imagination.
We have cliches like it's just your imagination as if that's something we should be willing
to dismiss as perhaps trivial.
And yet without your imagination of course you could not compose language.
And you'd have to have a creative imagination to some degree to compose language.
And so too to decode and translate it into an informal sense that we call understanding.
So part of what we're playing with here is the nature of imagination and its relationship
with language.
But what is an imagination?
When we were children what imagination meant to our experience had little to do with descriptions
and definitions.
It was instead our way of being.
We didn't merely have imagination.
We became the expression of our incredibly vital and playful joy in learning and relation
with each other in the world.
We were deeply engaged in the fundamental processes from which intelligent human minds,
receptive human minds could emerge.
Imagination then must have been for us truly the birthplace of our minds.
And when we were children imagination was so, how shall we put it, so absolutely near
to our experience that they could not really be distinguished.
We often perhaps heard adults telling us that something was not a toy, an idea too ridiculous
to imagine for a toy was not a category of thing but a relationship to it.
The relationship of playful wonder, exploration, learning and transforming identity, meaning
and function in the mind, actively, playfully, creatively, heuristically, in other words
in such a way that intelligences develop from these processes.
And of course we all remember how, I presume most of us anyway remember, how it was when
we were small with a toy that we were fascinated with and that toy could just be a lump of
dirt or a leaf or the sparkle of the light on the water as it traveled down the gutter
of the street in the afternoon or a stick.
But even a more complex toy we can remember how such an experience did not merely transform
reality but became a whole new way of being a world as if our own identity was fluid and
could flow and reform with all with which we curiously related.
And so we had these incredible faculties that could immediately transform experience and
we could not wait to engage them whenever we were, we would invent opportunities as they
got, as they became fewer and fewer as we met most of us got older.
But as we grew, strange things happened, imagination and play began to be dismissed in favor of
what might be crudely termed more pragmatic matters, responsibilities, jobs, formal education,
which can be a cruel replacement for an intelligent mind's natural passion for discovery and relation.
So we donned new costumes, the costumes of an attempt at public and social maturity,
whatever those seemed to me.
And in that process as we grew and as our minds developed, our imaginations were profoundly
impacted, inhibited, reforged, the momentums that were their pulse and the organs, their
anatomy were was repurposed over time.
And as we grew up, we slowly, most of us lost the deep capacities of wonder, curiosity,
play, we lost the ability, the almost shamanic ability to become a way of learning in flow,
where our identity either transformed dramatically or dissolved into the activity at hand.
So almost so completely that we disappeared to ourselves, not in the sense of being unconscious,
but maybe in a kind of sense of being proto-conscious, alive in the before of reflective self-consciousness.
Now of course, most of us were told that our imaginal faculties that were so astonishing
in childhood, for those of us that can recollect them, those of us lucky, lucky enough to recollect
them, but I hope that is most of us.
These faculties we were told really strange things about them, we were told that we grew
out of them, as if it's a natural process for you to shed all of that and kind of become
an adult, yet you will find buried, in most cases inside each adult, all of the, all
of the dreams and wonder and vivacity, the juvenation, the incredible, hopeful intelligence
of childhood, you will find the child of each person, their whole childhood, their whole
adolescence, you'll find all these timelines intact and still alive, not as memories, still
living in us, excessively, not as if we are on a position on a number line of years, but
rather as if we are like a tree, with our origin as the very root of our being and every
moment, every year we've ever lived, arranged and rings around us, all together with us
all the time.
Although that origin is embedded in many layers, it is still incredibly vital and accessible
to us, if we shall find a context in which, or invent a context in which it is invited
and celebrated into emergence and rediscovery, rebirth, but what is this imagination, this
thing we say it's just your imagination, the reason for which we dismiss what happens
to us at night when we dream as relatively, how shall we put it, unimportant at least,
when we say it's just your imagination, it's kind of funny because obviously without one's
imagination one would be completely incapable of composing language and certainly absolutely
incapable of understanding.
So would you say, oh, don't worry about that, it's just your understanding.
No, and yet, understanding is an aspect of imagination.
So that's not even all of imagination, but without imagination there is no understanding.
There is no recognition even, perhaps no possibility of relation with memory, whether memory could
exist at all for us, for humans, for conscious humans.
So it's funny when we ask the question what is consciousness, we're going to have a hard
time leaving imagination out.
So there's this strange aspect of consciousness that's hyperverbal, kind of disembodied and
very interested in abstracts that likes to dismiss its own origins.
We can see the same thing in our cultures, we can see the same thing hilariously in religions
which advertise their ability to preserve their own origins.
There's all kinds of ironic examples of this, especially in modern human thought and culture
where there's this aspect of mind that is very busily dismissing its own origins, this
kind of verbal conceptual aspect that wants to say like, oh, that imagination stuff, that's
not real.
It's funny, without it you wouldn't be able to make that statement.
Without that statements themselves would be useless.
So as well as being a faculty with which we can dream and predict or reflect upon previous
experience, as well as being a faculty with which we can understand language, how astonishing
it is that we could form it that I somehow in with my mind, of course my mind becomes
this, it's not merely something I do with my mind as if my mind is a tool, my mind becomes
this process for me right now and I'm sure if you are listening and paying attention,
your mind is joined in some way with mine in transcribing and decoding.
What is this imagination?
I don't intend to answer, but rather to invite us to marvel at the peculiarly fascinating
primordial importance of our imagination, for all the things that we thought of as pragmatic
are impossible without it, therefore it is anything but trivial and absolutely fundamental
to the possibility of the experience of our consciousness.
In two different worlds, in two different times, in two different places, we are joined
by the signal and somehow with this signal we share or we might say we invent a third
domain in which there is a link between us, a bridge across this distance and this is
the astonishing thing or a truly astonishing thing, this invention of the third domain
in which my composition and intentions, hopes and desires, expression across this gap, you
willingly receive them and make of course what you will of them for what purposes you
will.
But in your reception and attention we have a sharing, moment of sharing and in that moment
of sharing a third position exists where we are together in unique and astonishing ways,
ways that are absolutely ordinary to our everyday experience yet should we examine them with
even a small amount of care and interest we'll find such astonishing and improbable situations
underlying them, the bridge that divides us, united us first and somehow our imaginations
are profoundly involved in these origins.
Would that we could and I believe we can together retrieve the incredible intelligences that
underlie the nature of the human imagination and in beginning to ask interesting questions
together and look at our peculiar relationships with language and communication, dreaming
and intelligence.
We have the opportunity to recover, discover and invent the incredible minds that are the
true birthright of our human situation here on earth and whose accessible nature is exceed
the wildest imaginings of our stories, our science and our religion yet we ourselves
are these things, their source, their body and their truth only if we shall remember,
only if we shall together remember for purposes true and beautiful.
