you
Hey Darren, yeah, okay, I couldn't undo my camera. Oh there there there there
Okay, I have about an hour. Do you want to continue the interview? Yeah,
absolutely. Are we waiting for Henrietta? He's just taking some tea. He's making some tea.
Yeah, anyway, yeah, what do you want to talk about?
So, first of all, I'm very happy to have this chance to chat with you again.
Really appreciate you making some time. Thanks. You know absolutely everybody
in the community. I mean, Whitley Strieber, Linda Bolton Howe, I'm sure you knew Art Bell when he
was alive. I didn't know him, but I met him once. George Knapp, I mean the list is...
I just saw George Knapp at the conference. You should come out to the next contact in the
desert. Yeah, I mean, since my roommate goes, it'd be easy for me to do that.
Who's your roommate? Do I know him? I don't know if you guys have formally met. He knows who you are.
What's his name? His name is Mike Resil. He is, let's talk UFOs on the UFO Reddit. He's one of
the mods there and has been a mod there for a long time. Oh really? I like UFO Reddit. It's a
lot more friendly than UFO Twitter. That's like a jungle. He works really, really diligently to
keep that community in good shape. I didn't have a question about UFO Twitter actually.
Someone made a really intelligent comment and let me see if I can find that person.
Why doesn't he come on the call with us? Right now. He's active in a variety of different
communities. He's also mod on our experiencers, which of course is a place where people can discuss
non-ordinary experience. Where can I find that? I'll send you a link to that subreddit when
we finish today. I can certainly put you in touch with him. He is also extremely active
in the Burning Man community. Presently, he's part of the Department of Public Works out there.
He sets the place up and he stays to tear it down when everybody's left. He's at Burning Man right
now. Otherwise, he would- Oh, is that Burning Man now? Yeah. He would joyfully be on the call with
us. I mean, is that Burning Man setting it up because it's not- Of course. It's going to be
about a week before he gets to Gerlach, I think is where the DPW meets Department of Public Works.
He was also active in setting up a website that allows people to create an account there and then
automatically email their representatives with pro-disclosure
materials to encourage the representatives to support disclosure, whatever the heck that may
turn out to me. Okay. I want to get to some sort of juicy questions here today. Yes,
I'm putting this in the chat. This guy had some good comments on Reddit. See if he knows him.
Okay, absolutely. Yeah, there we go. All right. Okay, I'll ask you some questions.
I just want to say I'm reading a good book called The UFO Paradox. Keith Thompson,
very intelligent. Can you say a little bit about what you find unique or interesting about that?
Well, he's not looking for answers, which is impossible at this point. He's presenting the
facts, which is what I like to do, what we know and what we don't know, and how to get from where
we know or what we don't know to where we can know. So that takes a whole different way of
looking at things. There she is, Miss America. Hi, Henrietta. Hey, Henrietta, how are you?
Hi, Alan. Is, I wonder, is Kat and Mario out here? Yes, they are. Oh, give me their number.
I will. I'll send you Kat's. I think they're coming tomorrow or the next day, but they'll,
they're there. Yeah. Well, they're there. Yeah, I want to see them because I'm in the very nice
house this year. Yes, I know. You can't get to, you can't get to New York this week?
No, I can't next year. What's going on for you? Well, I'm going, I've, I'm going away this weekend,
but yeah, no, I can't because I, I can't really afford to. I've got to wait till September.
But I wish I could be on fire. Next year, I'll plan it better. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Good. Anyway,
yeah, let's go. Lovely. It's very lovely. Yes. Yes. Well, we'll chat another time. You can give
me the tour. Let me just, let me give you and Darren a quick look around at this. Hi, Darren.
At this house that I'm, well, this is the house. Oh, wow. The house is not. Oh, it's not the same
one as, no, no, it's a different one. This is a very nice bedroom here. Oh, it's lovely, Alan.
Yes. Oh, it's really nice. Darren, we, I've been with Alan to our island like three summers
in a row and it's just lovely. There are no cars and everybody just walks barefoot on the
road. You bicycle around and you feel like you're in like a Spielberg movie in the 1980s.
Riding bicycles kind of into the sunset. It's just amazing. Look at the backyard here.
Oh, it's, it's fantastic, Alan. It's lovely. It's nice backyard. It's really nice. Oh,
God, I wish I was there more than, yeah. Well, anyway. Very nice. Outdoor shower, of course,
Darren. You need an outdoor shower when you're. Hi, that was my favorite thing ever. Some of my
friends, the house in Grayton and they had an outdoor shower and I just love it. I didn't even
care if the water was hot. Yeah. This is the outdoor shower. You'd love it there, Darren. So the island,
Fire Island is like this little strip. You can just walk, you know, it's just, it's very. You can
walk for miles. You can walk for 20 miles. And there's just no, there's no traffic. It's just
lovely. There's no, and it doesn't feel like there's media. You just feel like you're bicycling and
talking and walking and cooking. It's really nice. Beautiful. And obviously going in the ocean and the
early morning at night. I'll just show you a little view of the street out here. Great, Alan.
This is the street. Wow. And the beach. We're like three houses from the beach.
I recognize that house. Yeah. It's a nice house across the street, of course. Yeah. This is,
this is the, yeah. I love the vegetation. I grew up in like this kind of environment. So
it's very comfortable here. I know. I feel much more comfortable there than England. I mean,
that's where I want to be really. Well, anyway, let's talk. Go ahead. Yeah, let's talk. What's
going on? You were talking about the book. I'm curious if you encountered any thoughts
or ideas in there that you found novel or inspiring?
Yes. Novel and inspiring. I have this particular one by Keith Thompson, the UFO Paradox.
I've been reading that book, which is very interesting, Henrietta. And he says,
he says, oh, he says, Rudolph Otto, you know him? He was a student of Freud.
He talks about the mysterious tremendous. Have you heard that term, mysterious tremendous?
Which means the mystery that is both terrifying and transforming
and fascinating at the same time. Terrifying and fascinating. I guess that's really essentially.
And that's what the phenomena is. It fits the bill in all accounts. He says, oh, calling it a
phenomena is much more inclusive than calling it an object. So calling any unidentified aerial
phenomena is much more to the point than calling it a unidentified flying object. So that's something
I think the government is suggesting to us as a way of advancing our knowledge.
And what do you think of that? Well, certainly the situation calls into question
all of our common ideas about categories and identity, what things are, who we are, what the
world is, what time space is, all of these things are drawn dramatically into question
because the phenomenon does not represent itself in a continuously identifiable fashion.
And in fact, you know, you can imagine there's both the sort of stories where there's a kind of
a playful element to the interaction. And there's stories where there's a very dire element to
the interaction. And there's stories that sort of over art both of those where the primary
nature of what's going on is just mysterious, right? Yes. So I'm curious, clearly, Alan,
you're aware that a variety of PSI ops have been going on for quite some time, organized at least
by by the United States government, if not other governments as well. I'd love to hear anything
you have to say about that that you might that you think might be enlightening.
About the PSI ops in regard to UFOs or every phenomenon. In regard to the phenomenon, I just
wrote a little piece about that. Let me see if I can find that piece, because I think PSI ops is a
big, well, you know, the Air Force had a ridicule campaign against people coming forward.
It's about the manipulation. Let me just look upside. Yeah, it's some people, though,
say it's it's on behalf of the phenomena itself. I'm sure you heard that is dictating to those in
charge, how to approach the ongoing disclosure. You know, I find this very interesting. I'm curious
about your thoughts related to. Okay, let me ask a couple of staging questions so that we can
have some clarity about what's being asked. Obviously, I suspect in your mind, if there are
intelligence in other intelligences involved, non human intelligences, I suspect you imagine
that there is an array of such intelligences. That's the point in question though. Wait,
wait, before you go any further, let me just address that point. There isn't there isn't
there's either an array of intelligence or somehow, because they all seem to be
all connected with each other. Sometimes you see different types of ETs together, or sometimes
they're good. Sometimes they're bad. You get Carla Turner, who had awful abduction experiences,
then you get Chris Blutzo, who had these amazing healings. So are they all the same?
Are they different? I say, and you'll like this, Henrietta, they're part of what I would say is
nature, a supernatural nature. So you can get stung by a bee, or you could smell a rose,
that's all nature. So they're all part of one thing in a sense, because we call it nature,
and there are also very different aspects of that nature. Nature, you could be nourished,
or you can eat a poison mushroom. So within our limited, very limited
range of categorizations, we see separateness in the phenomena like we do in the world,
or, you know, animals eat animals, things like that. It's like, so is that good or bad? It's
all the natural world. So I just saw a great film about Jane Goodall studying the chimps. Did you
see that? I saw her in the plane. Isn't that fantastic? Yes, it's really beautiful. It's just
so amazing. I remember reading about the chimps when I was in my early 20s, and I was just absolutely
enchanted by her. Oh, she's amazing. Well, she said, I thought, she said, I thought the chimps
were very peaceful and loving, and then one tribe ended up killing and wiping out the other tribe,
and awful inhumans. I mean, humans are inhuman, but in a way. So it's separate things, and it's one
thing, just like nature. Okay, so one of the nuances that I think you're bringing up here is that
we, as interested human beings and as intelligent, hopefully human beings, can approach it
from different angles for different purposes. We can approach it from unity as nature, right? The
broad picture. And then we can also approach it from the desire to distinguish between various
contact events and situations. So, okay, I think that. But you know who wrote a really great essay
about this is Jeffrey Kreipel. You know, Jeffrey Kreipel? Yeah, he's brilliant. I love him.
We should go there, Henrietta, the Archives of the Impossible. Yes. Yes. Whitley Strieber just
was there, and he outlaid all the pictures people sent him from the communion letters.
And incredible stuff, you know. Yeah, the archives of the Impossible are amazing. I've listened to many
podcasts from different angles of the archives, I think, including Whitley's. Whitley was a speaker
there. Yeah. Okay, so let's see. Where was I going here? So you mentioned that perhaps
some faction or a number of factions are influencing probably primarily the United
States government, because it seems like we're the front, we're in the front of this game of
disclosure and probably of craft recovery, body recovery, the whole historical. I mean,
do you have any evidence that other countries are anywhere near us? Well, not only we are in
possession, but we have a very imperialistic view of crash retrieval and other like this evidence.
I talked to Jaime Mestana about this, that the U.S. went into Mexico, killed the Mexican army,
and took their craft over the border. They also went into Brazil and got the Virginia craft there.
They've gone into Canada. Somehow they feel they can just go into a country and get the craft. They
got the craft from Italy that was being kept by the Vatican from the 1933 thing that that Mussolini
showed Hitler. And because he thought it was Nazis, you heard about that, right? So somehow
there's this sense that the U.S. is in control of phenomena. I don't know how or why other countries,
especially Russia, that was my big complaint about Tucker Carlson going to talk to Putin.
Did you see that? Which he did a really poor job. He didn't ask him the UFO question and
Tucker's into UFOs. I mean, how could you miss that one?
All right. So let's just let me circle a couple of a couple of pivots here for a moment. So
you know, I've thought very carefully about this and I followed the phenomenon since I was a child,
perhaps not as long as you Alan, but since I was six or seven. So we're talking 1969 or something,
right? I read Chariots of the Gods when I was eight years old and have been fascinated by this
forever. And I've paid very close attention and have not been caught up in the cult, so to speak,
but more intellectually and philosophically and perhaps even scientifically interested. And one
thing that is obvious to me is that any faction of human beings that are in possession of technology,
artifacts or bodies from a non-human intelligence are in possession of the Holy Grail of asymmetric
military advantage, literally the Holy Grail. This is the most important thing in the entire
history of our species, right? So any faction of government or a civilization that is in possession
of just even intelligence about the topic would likely be likely to represent a sort of a speciation
event, a breakaway civilization. What do you think? What are your thoughts about the Salon?
I see no evidence of a breakaway civilization. I asked Richard Dolan, who actually originated that
term. And I said, Richard, where's the proof? And he couldn't give me a straight answer. So I do think
we're in possession of the technology, but I don't think we know how to actually duplicate it.
Yes. But would you agree that a faction in possession of that tech represents space? Okay,
let me make an example, right? Imagine that there's a small faction of humans that possess,
for example, advanced computing devices, and the rest of the people just have pen and paper.
Are these two different species? Because this seems to be the question to me. What do you think,
Valen? I don't think we are in possession of zero point energy at this point. I don't think we
have understood how to incorporate alien technology into Newtonian physics, you know.
Of course, I agree. I mean, but some people say, yeah, there's a breakaway civilization. We have
craft out in space. Linda Moulton-Howell thinks that. And I disagree with her. I mean, I love Linda,
but she's saying, oh, yeah, the US is going to Mars. I don't see any evidence or the CERPO projects
and where they went to CERPO. So I don't see any evidence of it. I mean, I see evidence of a cover
up. I see evidence of ETs manipulating consciousness. I see all that, but you don't see us. I mean,
I think we have advanced technologies. Yes. I mean, some people are flying jets and other
people are flying these triangular craft. So we are definitely more advanced. And it just so happens
when people quit the military and they've been working on these black projects, they go into
private industry and make a fortune there, which should be illegal. So what's your question then?
So I mean, obviously the possession of even intelligence about nonhumans would represent
an asymmetric military advantage. Not if they can't produce technology from it.
Yes, but I mean, we have a long history of likely, what would I call it, technologies influenced
by perhaps nonhuman technologies. For example, fiber optics and transistors. Do you think
there has been an influence? Yeah, I think if you read Current Corso's The Day After Roswell,
he talks about the transistors and fiber optics all coming from the Roswell thing. So
you know, Gary Nolan recently made an excellent example. He was like, well,
suppose we were able to transport, say, a cell phone back in time to cavemen, right? They wouldn't
be able to use it as a cell phone. But by examining the cell phone, they might be able
to discover the possibility of glass, right? And then like melt sand, maybe. And so he was
saying that we might be in a similar position where we've received these these artifacts that
we don't understand and can't use, but they can inspire certain very specific developments.
Well, that's what happens if you read Diana Posalca, did you read American Cosmic?
Of course, yes. And her latest book, Encounters. I'm working on that one now.
She talks about the guy Tyler going in, creating medicine that can only be made in anti-gravity.
Right, right, yeah. So there's a donation field too that she talks about, you know,
where they set down craft so we can gather technology from it. So that's happening. But
we have yet, in my opinion, developed a technology that can go interdimensionally or something like
that. So, okay, that's just so many questions. Yes, that makes sense to me. I want to ask you
about a couple of background stories and your thoughts about them. So there's some anecdotal
stories that there was direct contact between, let's just call them aliens for now, even though
we really mean non-human intelligences, and the specific people or branches of the United
States government. Perhaps there was an offer made, the specific rumor that I want to ask you about.
Where are you getting that information from? I think you'll recognize the story when I bring it
up. So there's an anecdotal story that there was an offer of a pack that would give us, you know,
no more scarcity. But say that again, I just had to turn off the air condition. So what were you
saying? So there's an anecdotal story that perhaps Eisenhower or another president was or possibly
the military was approached with an offer of the end of scarcity, right, something like zero point
energy and freedom from disease and so on. And this offer was turned down because it would destroy
our economy. And then a later faction came and said, well, how about weapons? And we said, yes
to that. Have you ever heard anything like that yourself? Yeah, of course, that they've traded
technology for alien abductions. Yeah, I've heard that. That's a comment. That was the,
yeah, that was the anecdotal trade pivot, right, was we'll give you weapons in return for bodies.
I don't know if that's true. Some people say Eisenhower didn't meet
aliens. Other people say, like Richard Dolan's interview that he invaded
area 51, because no one would tell him what was going on there. So I don't, I don't think anyone
except like a very few people actually know the answer to the Eisenhower situation. So I don't,
I think it's possible, but I don't know. I don't, I don't, I'm not one of those insiders,
but I do want to read Lou Elizondo's book when it comes out in just 20 days, a couple of two,
three weeks. Get that, Henrietta, get eminent. And by the way, Henrietta, if you have a question
or anything you want to contribute or ask, just jump in. I'm just enjoying listening because I
don't know all this information. I just have my own thoughts. No, I was in a crop circle once in
888 on the 888 crop circle. And when it, because it was new, there was this black helicopter that
came very low to the ground was photographing everything. And I was going to take videotape
the helicopter, but I felt like, no, don't do that. I don't know. It felt weird. Like they were
watching. I don't know. I just didn't want to get involved in that whole thing. It was very strange
this because it was incredible formation in England on August 8, 2008. It was in the shape of an eight.
And it was quite amazing as if they were responding to our cultural counting. So with an eight.
But it wasn't just an eight. It was a mobius strip eight where the outside becomes the inside.
So they give you something. Yeah, coach, look at the eight formation in. I know I was just having a
look. Yeah. So a couple of questions here. I don't know. Yeah.
Let me see if I can focus. So one of the things is, okay, yes, this is one of the questions.
In your in your mind, when you think about these matters, do you,
does it ever occur to you that perhaps what's going on has nothing to do with technology,
that it's something else altogether, that it's not about machines? Because the humans keep saying
it's about machines. It's got to be about machines. Give us the machines. We want the machines.
What do you think? Might it not be mechanical? Well, you keep asking either or. And I'm saying
both. And sure. And so it is physical. This is Jeffrey Kreipo's great contribution. He says
there's a doubling effect. It's physical and non physical. It's subjective and objective. It's
material and immaterial. It's consciousness. It's technology. It's things we can't understand
because we're very limited in our scope of either it's this or that. So the wave particle thing is
it's not that either it's a wave or a particle. It's both a wave and a particle. It's also something
we don't have a concept for. Exactly. Which is our lesson is missing the features that might allow
us to to address or entertain the perspectives that would be enlightening, I think. Exactly.
I'm going to find this quote by Noam Chomsky. He's not talking about UFOs, but he's talking about
something that we can relate to as far as this discussion.
I very much appreciate that because I'm someone who, you know, based on my own experiences,
have great mistrust of the way that we modern utilize categories and binary logic and so forth.
I was specifically trained to hold multiple perspectives in a perspectival
manifold, right, without validating any single perspective, just to hold the space of the manifold
in consciousness in order to think about things that don't fit with how we are ordinarily trained
to use categories and to think about identity.
Right. So you can't, it's what John Mack said. We need other ways of knowing.
We can't understand this with our left brain. This isn't, I'm sure it's logical on some level,
but it's not logical in the way we understand and use logic. That's the bottom line. We're not
sophisticated enough to, but we can be. We need more abstract thinking over what John Keats
called negative capabilities. You know that term? I don't say more about what he means. I have an
intuition. Negative capability. It's not a very good term, but it's a way to hold contradictory
thoughts at the same time. Simultaneously, yes. Simultaneously. And yeah, together. And that's
that's an evolution. So we, we, we're thinking either or either it's technology or it's not,
we, they're showing us our next phase of evolution. You know, we've gotten so far,
but we're still running the world on Newtonian physics. That's 400 years old.
You know, power out, power back, cause and effect. These things are not running on cause and
effect. They're running on cause and effect at the same time. There's, there's a whole different
way and we are slowly being educated, sometimes dramatically, sometimes not in a new way of
thinking, but there's so much resistance because like Neil deGrasse Tyson, he says, oh no, those,
it was a tic-tac was an artifact of the radar, the radar on the plane and Fravor says, no, I saw,
he didn't say it to Tyson, but he said, no, I saw this with my own eyes. This was not,
and Neil deGrasse Tyson refuses to even hear that. He says, you know, it's impossible. You don't
only impossible because it doesn't fit into my worldview. So, I mean, Tyson is a television
personality with a stipend to defend and is what I would call a sophisticated idiot as far as this
particular topic. No, it goes back to Thomas Kuhn, you know, Thomas Kuhn theories of scientific
revolution. He was actually a mentor to John Mack. He was a friend of the family. And, and John,
and he was older, he was, he was a friend of John's father and he's, John gets into the abduction
stuff and he calls up Thomas Kuhn and he says, Tom, I think I got one, meaning I think I got a
paradigm buster here, you know. So, so Thomas Kuhn says to Mack, don't form a judgment, just hear
it all without evaluating, without saying it's possible. Now, take in all the information first
and then do the evaluation, which is something Francis Bacon and William James both talked about
in empiricism, you know, Francis Bacon, William James, John Mack, they all kind of trusted the
phenomena, the experience over, over, you know, scientific method. This scientific method does
not work when you're, you know, living real life situations. It's not repeatable. It's not
provable in that term. Yes, the scope of the applicability of repeatability and reductionism
is real, but is in its minimal compared to what actually exists. There is no subjective
and objective reality. First of all, those are fabrications, just like time and space is a fabrication.
We think it's real, but we think we're in these video screens too, or we think we are, but you
know, really, we're not in these little computer screens here. But if I thought I was in that
computer screen, then that would be my whole world. And I would, but it's like the, of course,
it goes back to the allegory of the cave. It's no different. It's just a little updated version
of play. Flatland. Flatland. Yeah. Flatland too. Yeah. Okay. So so many more questions. Who do you
think is doing some of the best current work on the topic? Gary Nolan, definitely is one of the
more intelligent voices out there. Also, what's that crusader? Yeah, that's the link to the Jeffrey
cry bowl talk that he did at Seoul, which is Gary Nolan, that's in the chat. He's doing great work.
I mean, he's a little conservative, but he's great. He wrote the supernatural book Henry
editor with Whitley. Yes. Yeah, cry pool. You mean cry pool. Yes. No, I he's amazing. We should
go. Let's go to Texas sometime to Rice University and check out the archives on the impossible.
Yeah. Yeah. No, no, no, no, go ahead. Want to hear from you? Very, just a very quick question. I
know this might, I mean, sounds really weird, but it keeps popping up. Like, does anybody ever speak
to children that see them like all these? Well, it occurs to me that it's all these people thinking
for hard about, which of course is good. But like, what's the, you know, what if you just don't have
that capacity to analyze in ways that. Oh, John Mac did talk to children. He did. I mean, I'm kind
of curious, like, how would that impact them? Like, it would be so interesting to know, you know,
children who've, who have experienced these things because it would just be a kind of. Oh,
well, you know, actually, if you read my book, and maybe Mary Rodwell has a whole chapter on
what these children are, yeah, read that less. The star seeds in my book, chapter must be chapter.
The last chapter, I think. Ten, I think. Yeah. It sheets great too. Mary, you'll love Mary. Do you
know Mary's Darren? I don't. She's fantastic. She's a very intelligent English woman with a great
sense of humor. She came to Fire Island with me once, you know, to Henrietta. Oh, no, I didn't.
Yeah. Yeah, because she was in visiting New York and she had no place to stay. So I brought her out
to Fire Island. So this leads to, and again, I have so many questions. I know we're not going to
get to even half of them, but that's okay. It leads in a direction, though, that I want to ask you
about trying to think clearly how to frame it. And I have some of my own perspectives on it,
some of which have just undergone a radical shift as of yesterday. But because these are
things that I chase all the time, like I'm very curious about these matters. So let me try to
introduce the question. In your mind, Alan, what do you suppose is the actual historical
relationship between our species and other intelligences? Well, I do think we were upgraded
over many, many phases of development. We're not like any other species on this planet.
We did not evolve from the Earth apes. So we were, we're hybrids. We really are hybrids. And I think
we're coming into another phase of hybridization. I think the, the Anunnaki were part of that,
but even seven million years ago, we separated from the evolving primates. I mean, there's evidence
of the, also in my book, I think it's actually is in Mary Rodwell's chapter. We have a gene
that seems unlike any other gene that just came out of nowhere. So we're hybrids. And we're, we're
also, we do that to plants all the time. We create hybrid species. The grapefruit is a hybrid
species. You know, there's, there's lots of hybrid species and we're one of them. So,
yeah, we are being watched. I mean, this is something Charles Fort, one of the original
people. Do you know Charles Fort's work? Oh, yeah. Yeah, I mean, I, I, I, I, I died 14 times. Yes.
Yeah. He was the original kind of conspiracy guy. So, you know, he says we're cattle being ruled.
I don't think that's true, but we're definitely being manipulated or controlled for maybe though
it's a good reason, or maybe it's not a good reason. I, I think I tend to be that glasses have full.
So. Okay. So there's some related questions. First of all, the idea that we're cattle doesn't
make a lot of sense because we wouldn't need mines to be cattle. We wouldn't need technology to be
cattle. None of that. Well, we would need mines if we're feeding the archonic matrix. If you
know, yeah, there you go. That's true. So the archonic matrix wants us to think just enough
to create the dramas to engage their, you know, energy bodies to feed us, feed off of our emotional,
you know, dramas. And, and is that something you take seriously?
I do think there's an element. I think we could break out of that. I think there's a lot of people
stuck in emotional drama because they are feeding the archonic mind matrix. Yes.
But you're, if you're aware of it, then you can get free of it. So.
And is it the awareness that frees you? What?
But what frees you is not indulging in the drama. I mean, emotionality, as opposed to feelings,
we're here to feel. But you know, angry people, they're, they have this chemical, it's like an
addiction. And they're addicted to the chemicals of anger, and they don't even know it. And when
they stop being angry, the body says, uh-oh, we need that chemical. But those emotions themselves
feed the archonic mind matrix because they live off our, what Robert Monroe called loose,
which is any sort of intense emotion. They create wars. I mean, is there really a reason to go and
invade another country? I mean. No, I mean, on masks are insane and have long apparently been
nuts in this way, right? I mean, Israelis and Palestinians, you put them side by side, you
cannot tell the difference. Yeah. It's, it's, and this is what Robert Lawless said to me,
Henry Ari, he says, who kills other people over words in a book? You know, it's such nonsense.
Like, would you, you know, but it's a holy book. So then it's okay because those people
aren't holy. And when you demonize people, it's okay, you know, to, to, to do them it. And because,
you know, I'm smiling, not because it's funny, but because it leads to further important questions.
Like, what were their intimate relationships, perhaps symbiotic relationships between our
species and beings that, that are not necessarily corporeal or are partially corporeal?
Well, it is symbiotic for some, you know, why? Because without their emotionality,
they don't know who they are. They think they are their dramas. So that gives them a purpose.
And that's symbiotic. The, the Archons give them a purpose, they fulfill that purpose,
they feed that purpose. There's a great book out, you should, you might really enjoy it by
Isabella Green called the reincarnation trap. And I interviewed her recently, I'll send you a link
to that interview. And she says, the whole purpose of reincarnation is to feed those beings,
because this is a lush farm. And I don't know if I totally agree with that. I think there's
evolutionary reasons for incarnation, but, but she's like very extreme.
Can I just ask quickly about these narratives? Like, where do they come from? Like, I don't
understand. Where do the Archons come from? No, no, no. How would, why would that narrative,
like it seems that seems pretty far out, like just to, like you could kind of make up anything,
like it's a, maybe it's a simple story points to something, but I don't understand.
But Henrietta, people make up everything all that they make up religion. They make up ideas
of karma and astrology or people make it up all the time. I know, but wouldn't one want to be
careful about making up stuff about this when we really, well, it's not because this is what they
believe, just like people believe their religion is what they believe to be true. So, you know,
I'm not saying it's good or bad, but we're all making it up. We're making up the whole story
about UFOs, ETs. There's no proof, but there's no not proof. But, you know, we're making up a narrative
because there's something there. Obviously, there's something out there.
No, I, yeah, I mean, the curiosity, like the questions that Darren's asking and you're answering
are really interesting. But when it goes into kind of the iconic thing is stealing from that, it's like,
how on earth would one to choose something like that?
Well, did you read Paul Levy's book, the Watiko?
No.
Oh, I'm going to say in my interview of the, of the Archons. I mean, it does sound like something
made up. It's so hard to believe that they're, and I don't know if it's true even, but it makes
sense because, you know, I saw my mother when I was younger turn into not like a demon, but she
was taken over. She was taken over by something that just went into this insane rage. And she's
actually, she's actually suffering from something like that now. But, you know, that was no longer
my mother as I knew her. It was something else. And maybe, of course, it's a,
it's a psychological issue, but it could be an energetic issue as well.
So look, there's a, there's a broad array from, from far back in history, I know I keep making
this gesture, but it's easy to think about things in, in kind of a three dimension, like a sphere
or a pie chart or whatever. There's a broad array of sort of prison planet narratives, right, where
hmm, a loosh or vampires, right, something non-human is feeding on the human. Yes. Yes.
Being us trapped in this cycle. So one example, which is a little bit eccentric or esoteric,
is an example of a text that was supposedly dictated by a nurse who was involved in the
Roswell crash and the alien who was called, I believe, Isle, A-I-S-L or something like this,
who was apparently female would only talk to the nurse. And there's this long document
that basically says something like there were two factions, the Dominion and the old empire.
And the old empire has this technology on Mars that causes us to forget our previous incarnations
when we die and traps us here and they feed on that energy and the Dominion tried, that were
supposedly the good people tried to eliminate this. Now this is like a broad science fiction story
with shades of Scientology and Zechariah's stitching, right? Nonetheless, it, it infigures
something that is both terrifying, plausible. Like why do we forget our previous incarnations?
What happens to someone when they experience what we refer to as enlightenment? And those quote,
unquote, and it's important to have those quotes there, previous incarnations flood back into their
awareness as it is said to happen to the Buddha and so forth, right? And I know people who have
recovered. I remember some of my past lives. So I don't personally think it's a prison planet.
I don't, that's, I do think I can understand why people have that views. And I think it's a
fantastic place to be one of my favorite planets. But that's just one way of understanding
the many different perspectives. So it's natural for the humans to narritize the
shadow. Let's put it that way. That might be part of an answer to your, to your question,
Henrietta. Yes, totally, totally. I mean, I'm fascinated. It's just, it deviates.
So, Alan, you were saying something about the difference between narratives and, I don't know,
what the opposite of a narrative is. Non-narrative. Okay. So what to you is most reliable? If there's
something we can count upon in your mind, what, what is, how could you, could you point us in that
direction? No, narratives are a natural function of order. And we're always trying to make sense
of reality. It's just like you don't, just don't believe your narrative. You know,
I mean, it's, it's, it's, it's like a, it's a scaffolding for knowing. So it's about knowing,
it's about gnosis, right? It's not about believing. Believing is the lowest level of,
of conjecture. Believing means nothing. I call it make believe. You want to believe something,
make yourself believe it. There's no, it doesn't count for anything. Oh, I'll make believe that.
I'll make believe this because it's all make believe. But knowing is where the Gnostics,
like, do you believe you're sitting in that room? Or do you know you're sitting in that room?
You can make the narrative. Oh, I think I'm sitting here. But the truth is,
gnosis, Trump's all sorry to use that expression, but it does.
Yes. So when you say gnosis, I mean, when I think of gnosis, I think of something like living
insight, which I have experience of occasionally, right? I don't necessarily believe it. It's a,
it's ways of seeing in consciousness, awareness, and relation, right? These three things,
consciousness, awareness, and relation really to me is, is up near the top of the, well, I don't
know. Relation is fundamentally important because I trust intimacy. I don't necessarily mean that
romantically or sexually. I trust relational intimacy, and I trust insight. Knowledge is kind
of the dead remains of something most of the time it seems to me. I like that quote. Knowledge is
the dead remains of something. That's good. One day, when we were actually, shortly after we
were all speaking, this magnificent insect flew into my father's backyard, and it was,
it was shining turquoise, and it was alive. And I was like, Oh my God, what is it? What is it?
And it was flying around for like a few minutes, and I followed it. And it was some kind of a large
turquoise beetle, like a scarab, right? And it was alive. And I was fascinated and in love,
and I just, I was hoping it would land. I wanted to see it up close. And, and eventually it hung
out for quite some time. And I was, I was conversing with someone else while it was there,
someone in Portugal, who became very important in my life. A few days later, I was walking down
the street and I found the carcass of one. And I realized immediately, that's what knowledge is.
Now I can hold the dead thing in my hand. And I know what was flying before, was alive before,
you know, that's a good analogy. Yeah. You know, young, I mean, it's a separate thing,
but young has a great story of a scarab flying into his office. Yes. Yes. Yes. At that moment. Yeah.
Yes. Yes. But yeah, knowledge, it's, it's not dead in the sense because it had nourished us
for the moment. And then digesting it. It's then, but the nourishment of the knowledge
is something in that moment. And then it's dead. Then it's gone. If you. Okay. Now this, this leads
me to a question that's dear to my own heart, because I'm extremely concerned about the,
our species, the group, the group humans, which I see is very different from individuals or small
groups. I'm very concerned about the group humans relationship with technique, with technology.
Say whatever you, you feel about this. Well, what, when you say technology, what are you talking
about? We're doing it right now. So what, what, what technology are you saying? AI? I mean, what
do you mean? Technology started with fire, you know, and language is a technology. It's just
yeah, of course. So technology is here as Marshall McLuhan says, to be an extension of our senses.
So it's not technology. It's what Thomas Jefferson said. The price of liberty is constant vigilance.
So are you going to burn your house down with fire? Are you going to heat your food and warm
your body? It's like, it's always a double-edged sword. Yes. Now again, I wasn't necessarily
saying technology is a bad thing. I'm saying I'm terrified of technology in the hands of
a dissociated cluster of human, of captured humans that are war making and commerce making
and stuff like that. But the last thing I would want in the universe is for the United States
military to get ahold of free energy or even for the humans to get ahold of free energy.
That would be the end of life on earth in short order, it seems to me. Well, that's why it's not
happening. Yeah. I think the intelligence, the phenomena is smart enough to know we're still
very primitive. At the ground level, you're idiotic. I mean, we're just on the side of maniacs. I mean,
as long as there's, this is what Childhood Zen was about by Arthur C. Clark. Did you read that book?
Oh yeah, I read that when I was, I read that when I was seven. Well, read it again. It's still,
I mean, it's a little dated, but it's also pretty amazing. Did you read that Henrietta Childhood
Zen? Yeah, what's just briefly. It's about ETs coming to the planet and saying, you know,
this is when there was an apartheid in South Africa. You have to change everything if you want
or help. You know, I read it a while ago too, but it's a great book. Arthur C. Clark was quite
an amazing person. There's no collective of humans worth contacting.
There's no collective of humans worth. There's no, okay, there's no powerful group of humans
that I would trust with silverware. And I mean, I'm being very emphatic, but literally, like,
our collective seemed to me to be utterly misguided, captured by some weird death process and insane.
I mean, Wetticoe is one way of talking. Well, are you talking about everyone who you're talking?
No, no, I'm talking about, okay, if we look at layers from like the individual to the family,
to small groups, to large groups, and then really big groups, when we make groups, mostly it's a
problem, right? When humans make groups, it's mostly a problem, especially beyond a certain
number of people. It just seems that that's what kept the aboriginals going for 60,000 years.
They did never develop government and large groups. They live in small clans. And you know
what the secret to that was? Do you tell? I think I may have said before, this is something Robert
Lawler was really big on talking about, because he wrote the book called Voices of the First Day,
which is about the aboriginal people and their spiritual tradition, Voices of the First Day.
And that's a great, he said they never developed agriculture, so they never created a hierarchy
where there had to be people in place and stationary and people ruling over people and
people. They never settled, yes, exactly. They continued to traverse and sort of...
But they developed an incredible spiritual culture where women would give birth to spiritual beings,
but their technology was the earth itself, if you want to call it that. They also
communicated telepathically. Yes, exactly. They did a lot of telepathic communication
rather than vocal, you know. They were pretty content, I would imagine, until the white man
came along. Do you think it's possible that what you're talking about with the UFO phenomenon or
all these, you know, things that we can't sort of understand or categorize or identify,
do you think it's possible that we could maybe explore it more telepathically or something like
that? Well, that's exactly what they want. A lot of talking, but it's like maybe it's a different
way of understanding it. That's exactly what they want us to do. We are very, in my opinion,
this is sort of the bottom line here, Darren. We're trapped in a matrix. Maybe it was created.
Maybe our minds have been shut down, the capacity of our brain. We are all telepathic. We all can,
all remote view, and we've been dumbed down, right? We've been dumbed down from our religions,
our media, our political parties, our families. Everything has kept us in a very small box.
And when I teach remote viewing, it's like, wow, we can really do this. I mean, I just did a course
today and this woman said, I was showing this picture and she said, well, it's cold. It's like
a mountain. It's blue and white. Is it an iceberg? And it was an iceberg. She got a bullseye on that
target. So how does that happen? There's no way to explain how remote viewing actually happens.
Oh, I mean, I think there are ways to explain it. How would you explain it?
Well, it's very complicated. The first thing is we think consciousness is in separate people.
We think our mind is separate. If it's not separate, you know, I think you may know
my friend Marla Fries. I don't know if you know. I've heard her for a long time. I've heard about
her a few times. And actually, it was very interesting what she said about her UFO experience.
Yes. Yes. She became psychic through a UFO experience. I don't want to speak for her,
but we were happy to hear about that. Actually, what happened to her?
It's been quite a while since I've heard her story, probably more than 15 years,
so it's not fresh enough in my memory for me to reiterate it. I just want to say something brief.
I remember once when the non-human intelligence was actually with me and I was talking to the
young man in Canada and he was very interested in using psychedelic drugs and I was trying to
convince him not to. And I explained to him that our minds are actually a network. The idea that
we're separate, it's not untrue, but it's not the most important thing about what's going on.
And if you can touch the network, you can be in other minds. You can share in other minds.
And he was like, we'll prove it. And I said right now and he was like, yeah. And I said,
okay. And so I just went to the place in myself where I used to be able to sense very clearly
when the other mind was with mine much more clearly than now. And I said, well, I don't
understand why this is so, but your room is orange and it's not painted orange and you don't have
orange furniture and there's like an arrow pattern on the floor. And he started swearing and yelling
like, oh my God. He was like, how could you possibly do like I just spilled orange juice all over my
rug and it's an arrow pattern. And that's just a personal experience of my own that I've actually
had, right? What was the upsetting part? I don't get it. I missed something. It was upset because
he couldn't believe it was possible. It didn't make any sense to him. He couldn't believe what was
possible. I missed that part. I could see what was going on in his room. Oh, they were on the phone.
Yeah. Right. Right. Because he was very... Similarly, when I talked to Marla, she asked permission
first because she said something about my house and I said, you don't know anything about my house.
And she said, well, let me see. And she led me from my front steps, told me how many steps there were,
led me through every room in my house. One month one, clockwise, told me what was in each room,
who was in each room, told me what I could see out the back window. And basically she made like
17 consecutive statements with no questions and every single one of them was correct.
Yeah. All right. We can prove that's true. Yeah. And one of the explanations is that the
consciousness isn't trapped in our bodies. Exactly. It's not. It never was. I agree. I totally agree.
That's why it works. We're not local. Now, people like Tom Campbell or Robert Monroe might have a
different explanation. Right. Campbell thinks, I guess, that the universe is a simulation.
I don't get along with Tom Campbell. I think he's very limited. We talked to him a bunch of times,
right, Henrietta? But I mean, one, at least, but it doesn't make sense to me what Robert,
what Tom Campbell was saying. Okay. So let's leave Tom out of it. Is it even possible that
the universe is a simulation in your view? Well, we're in a similar, but who's created the simulation?
I mean, yeah, that's only that. What is it a simulation of? Because that's a very bizarre
terminology. A simulation. A simulation has to be a simulation of something. Yeah. So what's the of?
I don't know. It's just another delusion. It doesn't mean anything. Okay. It's a simulation.
So what doesn't change anything? Yeah. And what you're saying is that doesn't help us see better.
Exactly. That idea doesn't help, doesn't give us, what does it give us? It doesn't do anything.
I mean, so what? Okay. It's Maya. It's a simulation, but here you are.
So let's do something. I mean, right? Right. Yes. Let's be. And so,
why, Alan, why do you think, why have you lived the life that you're living? What is your mission
in life this, this lifetime? Well, knowledge, you know, for one, I mean, for me,
because I'm an Aquarius for whatever label you want to give me, I enjoy learning about things,
understanding things. That is why the UFO issue is the most fascinating thing on the planet,
because it's not comprehensible, but it can be. And that's what my,
how do we make the incomprehensible comprehensive? How do we make the unknown known? How do we,
how do we, you know, cognize a new reality? Basically, that's my excitement. And,
you know, I can't think of anything that would be more stimulating than maybe there are, but for now,
that's kind of a fun thing to, to deal with, right? Right. It leads us up out of human categories,
knowledge, supposition, and even theory, possibly toward the origin of those possibilities, right?
It's almost as if it's the point beyond what can be, okay, yes, of course, we can spy,
we can sort of circle it and improve our, our conception and our perspectives, but we're not
going to find out, we're not going to get to the top of the cone. It's, it's like a direction
rather than a destination. Does it make any sense what I'm saying? Yeah, of course. I mean, there is
no ultimate destination. That's why. And so what are the imperatives for the humans as, as the, as,
as we are related to this phenomenon in your view in this time?
Well, the imperative is to change the way you look at yourself, your mind, your reality,
make peace with yourself, the planet, each other. You know, that's the imperative, you know,
stop war. I mean, it's what everyone's saying, but we're not doing it. You know, we're all connected.
I mean, what Bruce Lipton says in my book, we're not going to meet the other ones until we realize
we're all part of one of one single consciousness ourselves. What will it take to wake the groups
of humans up? What would it take to get them to change their, their motivations and priorities,
do you think? I think getting rid of, I mean, I think it's John Lennon, you know, imagine all
the people living for today. It's getting rid of your history, your family, your religion,
your country, you know, living for today. Imagine.
Presence in the, in the present moment together for each other.
Yeah. And yourself. What's that, Henrietta?
That doesn't make sense to me that you get rid of your history and your family. Like,
well, you don't get attached to it. You just don't say, you know, I'm an American, I'm a this,
I'm a that, and then you're different because I'm missing your that. It's not like you just regard,
but you don't place an importance on the things you label yourself as Jewish, Christian, Muslim.
It's like the public. Imagine Henrietta, rather than the first thing that Alan was saying, imagine
something like the end of otherizing, the end of the others. Yeah. The end of us and them is.
Well, yeah, totally. Yeah. So to, so to break down the barriers in category that normally
stand between us, you know, one of my friends was saying one of the biggest problems in history
that often leads to fascism is nothing more than the transfer of wealth between generations.
Right. The transfer of property and wealth and the defense of the endless defense of the transfer
of wealth and property and power between the generations. From the rich, though, to those
in power, only those in power, though, right? Exactly. I mean, yeah, there's so many problems
historically. Who said who said that, Darren? My friend, the neuroscientist, Dr. Baru,
he doesn't like me to talk about his thoughts. But anyway, so he's saying that's the purpose of
what? He's saying that's one of the problems that often leads to fascism, right, is the
prioritization of the transfer of wealth between generations. Now, I want to get to one other
question. Yeah. Isn't it possible? You know, one of the, so look, I was shown many things during
my experience. And one of them was that there are beings, there's a sort of syllogism here, right,
which is, I'll just state it clearly, as bees are to flowers and honey, X is to living worlds
and Y. So imagine that worlds are like flowers. There's something that go that links all the
worlds together, and they make this honey, which could be what evolutionary potential or
transcendence, the capacity for telepathy and high intelligence and stuff, they make this honey
from linking the worlds together in a way not dissimilar to how the bees do.
Might it not be that there are beings to whom we are flowers, right? They are like the bees,
and we are like the flowers, and there's this really deep enmeshed symbiosis between us. Has
anyone ever spoken of anything like this to you? To me, wait, so, so state that simply, in a sense.
What do you say? Imagine that we are deeply symbiotic with, for example, beings that are
non corporeal, but maybe they dwell in the substrate from which time space emerges,
and that we're intimately linked with them in a way as dramatic as the linkage between bees and
flowers. But you know, Darren, we are them. Yes, this is what I'm trying to say. It's one,
it's one. We are them. This is the illusion, or the simulation, or the Maya. We are that. This is
all a lila. I mean, this is all a game. The drama is the the wants, the desires, all that is just
soul experiencing, and maybe it feeds the matrix or not, but it's an evolution, and
you can enjoy it or not. You could be miserable, like my mother, or you can enjoy it.
Yeah, and this is how it seems to me, because I feel the same way about the other organisms here
on earth, right, the whales, and the dolphins, and the bees, and the flowers, and the trees, and
all these things. Of course, I understand I'm a human, they're a different species. Yes, I get
the separation thing, but the unity thing prevails over that in my experience, and in my thought,
in my heart, right? I adore the other beings here, all the other beings, and they all seem to be
intelligent to me. You know, scientists are like, it looks like corporeals could solve problems that
humans set up for them. I'm like, okay, good for science. Amazing. You guys figured out something
that's been obvious to humans for 400,000 years. Congratulations. Like all of the beings here are
intelligent. Their intelligence is embodied rather than representational. That's nature, and the UFO,
whatever that is, is a higher unseen form of that intelligence. It's not separate from that.
It's the implicate order, and it's here, and coming into our purview at this moment, because
we have to wake up, I saying have to, because something, I mean, it seems more urgent for
whatever reason. Something is at risk. Yeah, there's a risk. There's a near-term risk.
I guess, I mean, or maybe we're imposing that, that might not even be true, but it seems like
energetically, there is something accelerating our movement towards. What did Terence McCulloch,
kind of called it, the eschatology at the end of time. The great, and he was so right,
even though no one knew what he was saying. But yes, there's an eschaton, and maybe he's already
there. I don't know. The world is subjective and objective. Like you're there, you and Henry
are there. My computer screen, but I'm also on your computer screen, but you're subjectively on
my computer screen in my room, and you're in my subjective world, but you also
have your computer screen. You're in your subjective world, and we're meeting in the
Vesica Pisces to overlap and create another immaterial world. These are the material worlds,
but the worlds that we're actually forming is the mind field that can't be put on a computer screen.
Right, so there's three images on your screen, Alan, three images on my screen,
three images on Henrietta's screen, and there's the cloud recording that's taking place inside a
machine. But all that is just the surface of the actual mind field, I'll just call it, that cannot
be recorded, but it can be perceived in the recording of it. I mean, we're creating something
that's not on the video screen, and it's not in the words, I mean, sort of in the words, but it's
not tangible, and this is everything you're asking all of us. You're talking about grasping the
intangibility that can't be grasped. Yes, of course, we naturally like to play with these verbal
ghosts in the intellect and in conversation. Well, I love that too, because, you know, that's why
we're here to play. This is what one of the things Ken Wilber said. He said, I love intellectual
entertainment. There's nothing wrong with, like, going deep into a philosophical problem, because
it's so engaging and interesting and meaningless. I'm putting that word, he doesn't say meaningless,
I say, and meaningful is another way you could put it. I think, I never read this book, but people
keep referring to Man's Search for Meaning by Victor Frankl. Oh, right, yeah. I just read it.
You did? Can you give us a little synopsis? Well, I mean, he was a holocaust survivor, so he,
and he was a psychologist already. So this kind of changed his, many of his perspectives on how
humans hate it. But what is the search for meaning? What does that mean? The search for
meaning is something that's a natural impulse in every human, right? It's a bit like,
it was very captivated by what Darren was saying about the living world as a blossoming flower.
But I mean, you might wonder, like, isn't there something that wants us all to do something?
Yeah. So if there's a creator, or whatever, you know, I mean, you could talk about it in any
way, but he kind of comes to see that there must be, I mean, what is the impulse to survive,
even in the most dire circumstances like that? Like a concentration camp, yeah.
Yeah. I mean, it's just one example, but that was a pretty extreme example of, you know.
Well, it's the most extreme example. And unexpectedly, and, you know, unimaginably.
So anyway, he's very intelligent, yeah. But no, that's, I mean, he was maybe in a concentrate
holocaust, but is it any different with any of us? Well, that's the whole point is that, no,
you know, there'll always be the kind of replica of what you, you know, that experience in one's own,
or can be in one's own life. The sort of the, you know, the prison concept that you talk about,
the prison planet, you know, everybody can be entrapped or, or free, towards a liberation.
Yeah. I mean, it's interesting, you know, in science fiction and in fantasy, we are given
visions of what we could do together. What is possible for humans if we were not so,
if we were not subject to the inhibitions and amputations of language and enculturation and
commodity culture and war and all of these things. And when we get together in even a small group,
oh, yeah, I just want to mention that one other thing about the small group thing, even before
I thought much about any of these topics, it became clear to me as I was learning how to work
with other humans, how to have a job and whatever, right? That when I worked in very small companies,
the integration and coherence was high. And as I got to working in larger companies,
integration coherence was terrible, right, between the people. So it became immediately
obvious to me that humans work really well in small, tightly knit groups. And it seems to me
that one of the frontiers of our humanity is the establishment of something resembling intelligent
human culture, and that probably small, tightly knit groups are the seedbed where that's likely to
arise and succeed and perhaps become contagious. What are your thoughts about that, Alan? What
could we do? Is there something we can actually do? Do about, like reframe that? Do you about?
Who escaped the traps that we've presently faced as a species and perhaps to prepare
for the possibility of contact with other, we might imagine altruistic intelligences,
what can we actually do? What should we do together? Is there anything in your mind that you can see?
Is there a path that you can see or recommend? Yeah, be present. Don't live in the past or the
future. No one's going to save us from ourselves. We have to do that. And there's nothing, I mean,
I think that we have to actually do that. I don't think being present is enough. I think you have
to do good things for other people. I think you have to do that. That's a good point. For me,
I know crushing us are so active. They're very fucking active, pardon me for being blunt. But
yeah, the forces that are crushing humanity and eating up the world are very. Yeah, I don't think
I just answered kind of, I just said, what can each of us do? I agree with you,
Henrietta. Thank you for saying that. No, I just wanted to fix. Well, I'm doing what I'm
compelled to do is find what's going on. I mean, I can only, and that's exciting when I'm not
distracted by nonsense. What's that? It makes me think that the two of you, you know, you're
both really good at like thinking and analyzing, which is really important. And then there are
other people who would, you know, I don't know. And then there are, yeah, I'm not so good at that.
But I know that I like to help people in the immediate present who are immediately around me.
You know, that, I mean, there's a sort of, you know, that, you know what I'm saying? It's like,
I do too. Yeah. I mean, just sort of like literally, whether it's here in this town or, you know,
that that that kind of networking that you're talking about in small groups where you're
not separated from the other, like that, what you're talking about presence in action is important
to me. And these conversations are helpful in many ways. But ultimately, it's going to be about
who you are as a human in all your dealings with every single personal being.
I'm addicted to altruism. Yeah. Yeah, I'm a weird, you know, I want to, yes, to pay.
Well, no, it's not weird. It's natural. Marshall Rosenberg. Marshall Rosenberg,
we think people need to receive love, but there's a human true people need to give love.
So that's why you asked someone for directions and where they're always happy because it makes
them feel good about themselves. And helping other people is a natural state, a natural.
Do you think the UFO, sorry. Yeah, go ahead. Yeah.
No, say it, say what you're saying, please.
Do you think the UFO phenomenon, it just seems to me that there's something
to do with this, with that, with, well, I was thinking about this, like an invitation,
a conversation, there's something, you know, no, no, I think as a part of this mind,
that we're all part of, you know, that they, you know, I was saying a directional pull.
Well, I'll tell you something that I was discovering. I was going to say,
thank you for reminding about this. I was going to say this, that contact in the desert,
it was in front of 500 people and it got on to other things. But I had this realization,
because this friend of mine wanted me to go to this Buddhist little round table to talk to her
teacher and maybe I told you this and all these people in this Buddhist group were just talking
about their enlightenment, their process, their consciousness. And when I got to contact in the
desert, people weren't talking about their enlightenment. They were talking about what can
we do for each other to wake each other. It was such a higher energy in my opinion. It wasn't about
my awakening, this, me, me, me, which is very, maybe it's not Buddhism, but it was very new age
for what, and the UFO thing is like, okay, let's think about this collectively. Let's put, I don't
know if that's what you were asking, but it was such, so much more altruistic in addressing the
phenomena doesn't concern us directly. And yet it does concern us directly. So it's,
you're so right, Henrietta, thank you for bringing that up. That is such a good point.
It just seems to kind of like, wait, could you even say that, like, in my experience of the
tiny things that I've seen and spoken to many people in different countries have had these
experiences, it seems to be like almost like that spell breaker, you know, something happens where
you just, you just can't frame things in the way that you have. And Marla Fries told me that,
I hope I can say this, because it's, I haven't asked her, but she's quite open, but
maybe anyway, to set her name now, I should have said somebody. Well, I'll just say something very
simple then and not elaborate. But when she did a sort of little, a small group experimentation at a
certain place with UFOs, she experimented with conversations with them. And that happened, kind
of like, you know, flashing movements. And she, so it was like, she said it was a whole different
way of conversing, but it was beautiful, extraordinary. I mean, I'll just say that,
but that, that's interesting to me. I don't think Marla would be concerned about you speaking openly,
unless she was, I mean, I know her fairly well, even though we haven't spoken.
I mean, that's all I'd say, you know, because I haven't really said where she is, or who she was,
where she was, or who she was with. But I just kind of loved that idea of like,
they weren't just, well, she wasn't just analyzing, and she actually just was like conversing.
Okay, but there's a topic in the background here that I want to bring to the foreground.
Oh, yeah.
That the phenomena acts as an attractor, and it's out of, I'm an individual therein,
and I'm the important thing. Yes, totally. We are beings together. We are a planet together.
We have to remember the imperatives that we brought to our human birth as children,
and that we're sort of crammed down by our culture, our language.
Yes, totally. That's why I was really interested in how children relate.
That's why I love that question.
No, I was, and you know, I don't know if anyone's explored, well, you said Mary Rodwell,
but I'd love to personally kind of speak to more children because, you know,
dreams and in those kind of liminal states, and then because I know I've had some
strange dreams that took me back to kind of my childhood bedroom, where there was this like
weird, clunky UFO flashing red and blue lights outside, but it was kind of like,
wait, is that a memory? Or it just, it was, it's interesting.
So I think we've gotten to a really important point, and that was a great that you brought
that in, Darren, because maybe that's another aspect of what the phenomena is pushing us towards,
and an intellectual altruism, if you want to call it that, or spiritual or transcendence.
And we had a, what did you say?
Well, certainly more this kind of collective, like it, you know, where you're not,
I mean, for want of a better expression, you're not so, you know, self-focused, narcissistic.
Exactly, like the Buddhist or the Christian.
How do we move, as Darren says, in small groups, in pods, and how do we sort of
consider, you know, like Darren's the head and Alan's the heart and I'm the hands, you know,
like, when you start thinking about yourself as not a separate set, like that would get
truly interesting. There's another direction to this gravity, which is the unforgettable,
right, the anemesis, this was a Greek word that they used, and so that liberation from all of the
kind of inhibitive, sclerotic structure that we've acquired by the time most of us enter adulthood,
and some of us, you know, work to slough that off and in various ways, meditation, or
through altruistic action, or through art, or through dreaming, or through, you know,
intellectual activity, but there's this draw, there's, it's like a magnet outside of time that's
drawing us together back to something we can actually trust, it seems to me.
And I don't trust the military or the government to-
Maybe it's a creation of the whole thing.
They're the wrong gatekeeper. Yeah, that's the wrong gatekeeper entirely.
The motivations of the government or the military or the corporations are malefic best.
Well, no, that, I mean, you could possibly, you know what, you know,
we need to talk to a lot more women about this too, because women sense, like,
in their body, like, I could tell you right off, like, are you kidding, like, Tony from trust?
I mean, you've got to sort of, also, it's sort of much more about, or is it a parallel thing of,
like, sensing as much as thinking, you've got to do the do, it's got to be everything engaged,
but I was just really interested with it, because the way Marla talked about this conversation,
and she was so joyous, it was like, that really lit something up in my mind.
What was she joyous about? Which part?
Of having a conversation, like, experimenting with going like, hello, you know, hello,
which I think is very- I'm sure she was-
Hello, and then they're like, hello, it's like, oh, that's contact.
Yeah, yeah, I'm sure they were at the Monroe Institute when that was happening.
I'm almost there. She told me, yeah, I know she wouldn't be upset about us discussing this.
Okay, good. I know her name, I should have said a friend.
They were at the Monroe Institute when she was doing that, because she mentioned that to me as
well, and- And what was she doing? She was exactly doing what?
They were using, they were establishing a group mind, and then correcting it,
to make contact, you know, there's, of course, you have like the CE5 stuff.
Yeah, yeah.
Like, what is he doing? I mean, I don't trust her very much. He's an interesting cat.
No, I don't trust him either.
I don't trust him. I trust what Marla was talking about, because-
Yes.
Well, what exactly was she talking about?
Setting the intention, connecting the minds in the group, and just sending a signal,
and waiting for a response, and getting a response.
Which is actually what the crop circulars do as well, which is really interesting.
I think it connects to the crop circle phenomenon, because by the way, this is,
I was just looking at the latest, oh, sorry, the latest, like, look at that pattern,
that's just arrived in England.
Oh, where's that one?
That is interesting, Alan.
Where is that? When did that arrive?
Just arrived, two days ago, in England, not far away, and then this was the one prior.
Oh, will you go there and visit it for us?
Yes. And I, this particular one there, like, that is interesting to me.
I haven't seen anything like that. Like, they keep throwing new-
Yeah, that is very-
What the patterns, that one is a very unusual one.
That is very strange.
Isn't it strange?
Now, I want to ask you about this, Alan. You know that Valet has suggested
that some of these are the United States using satellite energy devices to produce them.
What are your thoughts about that?
Well, I've been there, the ones I've seen, like the 888, that was real.
I don't think they're doing that.
I mean, Valet is great on so many things, and he's also often a lot of things, too.
Yeah, he's a fascinating character.
What are you going to say, Henrietta? Yeah, go ahead and say it.
This might be really simplistic, I don't know, but there was one day when I was looking at a lot of the different prop circles,
and I suddenly, like, they opened up into not two-dimensional or three-dimensional,
not two-dimensional or three-dimensional, but like four-dimensional.
They suddenly had all these dimensions where you could go into them.
They tunneled down.
Yes, that is, someone did an animation of that, actually.
That's so important, Henrietta.
I can't even explain how important that is.
They're different.
They were different.
It was like points of access.
They were literally like portals, and they had all these dimensions and movement.
Yeah, and I'm so glad you said that, because we sit here on our computers looking, excuse me,
at flat pictures of things and thinking that's what it is, or we know what it is,
or we even think it's a crop circle, right?
We think, oh, I know what that is.
It's this.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, go ahead.
I'll keep talking.
Please.
Oh, so, you know, near my house up the hill, there are some very ancient stones.
They're huge, right?
They're gigantic stones, and they're on the top of the mountain,
and they've been there for a million years or whatever, right?
And there's a stone table at the bottom of them.
There's a table that you can light.
It was probably used for sacrifices who knows what it was used for.
It's a stone table, and it's naturally flat, and it's at the base of these stones.
And when I lay on that stone and I talked to the rocks, right?
I just said, you know, I'm here.
I'm listening.
They showed me this whole other universe inside the stone.
They're like, there's an ember labyrinth in here that leads to anywhere you want to go.
Yes, totally.
I wasn't high.
I wasn't, you know, having fantastical problems.
I was laying on the stone and talking to the rock, just asking it questions.
You know, telling it, I'm here.
I'm listening.
I honor your presence.
And they were like, there's a whole labyrinth in here of emerald doorways
that lead to anywhere you want to go in the universe, right?
And these are just, you know, people would just walk by and go like,
oh, yeah, that's interesting.
There's some rocks there.
Wait, so what I want to say is the way you're thinking down under Alan
is that, I mean, what I think, what I've always felt since I was a child is that
should be the norm.
Like this is what you'd be doing.
The other stuff is literally a waste of time.
You know, why aren't we lying on rocks and doing exactly that?
Like then we'd be getting somewhere.
So I think the UFO thing is kind of that.
You know, like, you can't ignore that, like, let's stop playing dangerous games
and pointless games when we could be doing what we're actually here to do,
which is the, I mean, I'm not sure what that is, but I don't want to say what I think.
Well, no, no, do say what you think.
Please don't.
Yeah, because I'm not sure.
I don't, you don't have to be sure.
Say what you think.
Well, no, what you said about this living, the living planet that's okay.
Well, I personally sense that there is a creator of this and that there's a reason.
So beyond, I feel like there's some kind of the relationship between the creator and us.
That's what's coming together.
That's what I think.
So I think everything is sort of going towards that.
I think that's the purpose.
I don't, I can't really elaborate.
But we came, but we came from that, Henrietta.
Yes, no, exactly.
So it's sort of a, I mean, we will become something else probably, right?
We were something else.
I don't, I don't really know.
I don't want to say much more than that because I can't put it into words.
I just have a sense.
I have to say it sounds a little bit influenced by your Judaism.
A little bit that point of view.
I'm not saying it's wrong or right, but it sounds like.
It's what I've always felt, but I've just found a way of kind of perhaps helping me understand.
I do have to go soon.
But I think we did get somewhere in this conversation we haven't gotten to before.
Yes.
Well, I think we should invite Marla into the conversation.
Yes, absolutely.
I'd love to hear more about like, I'm really fascinated about what people are sensing and
thinking about what's going on with these phenomena.
Yes.
I would love to have Marla here.
And I'm sure that if she knew that you were here, Alan, she'd probably be interested.
I never met her.
I don't know her.
I'm sure she knows who you are.
I mean, I have a million more questions too.
So I hope we can do this again sometime soon.
And I'm just really grateful for this time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, this is good.
I can't go on too long because I'm here and I have to get to.
But Henrietta, it's so great when you speak up and talk.
Because you have a great mind for a unique perspective.
And also your heart.
It's your spirit, you know, your passion, the beauty of your heart.
It speaks in your concerns.
And I love that.
Well, I'm interested.
And, you know, I love hearing you both like really think about it in very deep and analytical
ways. I guess I am trying to sort of sense it more than think about it.
But then, of course, it's quite hard for me to talk about it.
No, but I think you're right.
It's the sense sitting beyond knowing.
It's not about speaking.
Yeah.
It's kind of like just what we were saying when Darren was talking about the rock.
It's like when you or when either of you speak of a specific moment that you've had,
I'm like, that's it.
Like, I don't want to talk about the, you know, the systems.
Like, we know that they're kind of pointless.
Good stuff.
I love that about what you're saying, Henrietta.
If you brought the children in and you brought the women in,
they would both say what you're saying right there.
Well, no, that I do.
I mean, because I don't want to be like, I don't want to leave the men out.
But I kind of want to hear from the children.
That's exactly right.
We forgot that.
We forgot, but it's not all of us together.
We forgot.
We forgot that we are that.
We want to hear from the pure, untainted ones.
And then, you know, women who just generally speak, you know, just by nature, you know,
you just, I don't know, connected or something.
I mean, there certainly is a concern about something that is more or less delusional.
You know, we sometimes denigrate it with the term woo,
but there's a difference between woo and our hearts.
No, totally.
It's not the same thing.
But I agree.
I agree.
And actually, David Metcalf would be good to talk about that.
Yeah, David.
He's actually in dialogue with Diana Basalka, pretty much.
It would be great to get.
It would be great to have a conversation.
Yeah, let's bring David and Marla into this.
Yeah.
But we're coming out.
David and Marla would be a great, that would be this,
I mean, to just expand.
I'm curious what David and Diana are thinking about, because she's a little conservative in her.
I mean, I like her book, but she still calls herself a Christian.
And because she had some mystical Christian experience, she didn't want to talk about.
But she, the UFO thing is pulling her out of her dogma.
This is what I think it's doing, is my opinion.
They're doing, that's what's happening to Diana Basalka.
But she's like trying to fit it into these strange boxes.
And I say, you can't fit it into your religious box.
It's not a religion.
And she's saying the UFO thing is the new American religion, but it's not a religion at all.
It's, it's a mystery.
But when you bring the idea of religion, of course, she's a teacher of religion.
But it's not religion.
It's not about belief.
It's like, you know, I told you my favorite quote from Bud Hopkins, when someone came up to him
and said, oh, you know, all this UFO abduction stuff, it sounds like a cult to me.
And Bud says to this woman, this is the exact opposite of a cult.
A cult is all belief and no miracles.
This is all miracles and no belief.
I love that.
That's amazing.
Yeah.
Isn't that great?
He was quite a smart guy.
But that's true.
Anyway, because...
So when you talk to people who've experienced it, like so many different people, like I've met in
Mexico, like really conservative, like, you know, Catholic lawyers, accountants, you know,
and then they suddenly like tell you, you know, like it's a dirty secret, you know.
Yes, it's a dirty secret.
And I can't...
It is a dirty secret for a lot of people.
That's the thing.
And then, you know, and my friend's father, he was a judge, you know, and she saw the UFO
with her father and she was a child and she just, it's remained with her forever.
But her father kind of was like broke out of his thing for, you know, his way of being,
if you like, for about a week.
And then it just was too hard to retain the cognitive dissonance.
And he just kind of never spoke about it.
Well, next conversation, let's go live on my YouTube channel and get this
little out there in a public discussion.
Yeah, and with maybe with David and Marla.
Yes, yes, tell them, tell them.
So let's maybe...
So we found our way through a little bit.
Okay, let's meet, like find out what they are up to and we can meet soon.
I got to go.
Okay, have a wonderful time, Alan.
And they have to stay with me for a minute.
I will.
Okay, great.
So good to see you, Alan.
