Are you asking, are we, are we discussing, are you, what are we doing now?
So, you know, this may just be sort of a precursor or an introductory conversation that we have here, but I've long been interested in having a good chunk of time with you Alan, because your, your history and your work and your mind are so fascinating so
just to introduce everybody here, we've got Henrietta Weeks, Alan Steinfeld, and myself, Darren Stevenson.
And, you know, ever since I first encountered accidentally Alan, one of your videos, it was a interview with a South American shaman.
And he was talking about the mirror-gazing practices.
Oh yes, Sergio Magana from Mexico, yes.
Oh him, yes. The Toltec.
Yeah, Toltec.
Yes, exactly.
It's like, I came across this recording and I watched your interview with him with great enthusiasm. And, fascinatingly, within two days of watching that recording, I had the experience he was talking about.
I became aware, in dreaming, found myself on the roof of my house. I tried to do what he said. What he recommended was if you can, spin your perspective so that it inverts what you're usually doing, which is looking out into the world.
So his suggestion was that you look back toward yourself from outside.
And, of course, he says that if you manage this, you will see that there's nothing there, which I can't imagine what that experience would actually be like.
He also said that if you can't manage that, look at your hands, which is not an uncommon suggestion from lucid dreamers.
Of course, I looked at my hands, immediately I was flying. It wasn't like I had a body. It wasn't like my normal identity or consciousness was there.
It was like I became flight.
I had this experience a couple of times, and a few weeks later, through the graces of Henrietta, you showed up in a Zoom call that we were having.
And I was like, wait, that's the guy who was interviewing that guy, who had this immediate, so few things have such an immediate effect on me.
So I was really profoundly impressed, both with the fact that you brought this person into my life. You were the bridge that brought that person into my life.
And then also you show up in my world, shortly thereafter, as if by magic or what's that beautiful word that we use to describe a joyful coincidence.
Synchronicity, is it?
It's an even better one.
Oh, I know what you mean. I know. Yeah, it's like a really poetic word. Yeah.
We'll think of it.
So I'm so grateful just to even have a little bit of your time, Alan.
We've had conversations a few times before, and I've been really blown away, not just by the breadth and depth and scope of your experience, but also like your intelligence, your humanity, how well read you are.
You mentioned books that nobody knows about, you know, with very few exceptions. So yeah, I'm just super excited to even have a little bit to chat with you here.
You turned me on to the Master and the Servant book by Ian, and that's a very important book, because it explains this fascination with channeling.
These people think they're channeling something, but they're really breaking down the walls between the left and right brain.
And then they think they're channeling like, you know, someone from, and there are channels, but most people are not channeling anything except their own right brain.
That's very interesting because it matches up with my own experience. I'm a bit allergic to what we might call Lou.
On the other hand, there are veritable, there are people whose experiences are profound.
You can tell the difference when they're speaking most of the time, perhaps not always.
Speaking of smelling, I just have to check something on the stove.
And Darren, I was going to say, one of the things that Alan told me recently was he, you know, he spent a lot of time with some of these big names in the UFO field like John Merck and Bud Hopkins.
So those are kind of really interesting questions to ask him, like what, you know, because John Merck is like one of my favourites to sort of turn to from that era.
Have you read some of Merck's work? How did you discover Merck?
Through Alan. I mean Alan introduced me to the whole topic, which was kind of a cool story actually because I went to see, like Alan and I just became friends like you just instantly as soon as we met.
I was like, I've known this guy forever. He's so incredibly friendly and open and we can talk about everything, which is one of my favourite things and doesn't happen that often in that way.
Anyway, I went to one of his panels on astrology in New York City and he was, you know, doing what he does, his moderating.
And he was great with this really robust panel of astrologers. But he kind of said this line, this throwaway line of like, well, you know, the UFO phenomenon and alien abduction is the most sort of pressing question of our time.
And then he carried on and I thought like, wait, if Alan is saying that, like, surely there's got to be something there. I'm not looking at it.
Like, why aren't I really paying attention? So then we began all these conversations and Alan and I had this strange experience when, you know, I didn't know him that long, but I was sitting in his apartment there and we were talking intensely about the topic.
And I felt like I just fell into it. But suddenly I was seeing like these triangles floating over his head.
And I still don't really know what that means. But that happened. It was just like there were lots of things that kind of felt like a tumbling into something.
I still don't really understand much about it, but that did happen.
I mean, you know, when we say phenomena, UFO phenomenon, don't really know what we're talking, but no one knows. I've been researching it, not the government, not the military, not the experiencers, not the researchers.
I mean, I've been talking to everyone intimately connected to this field, have to say, I'm writing this in my next book, but I'll give you this line. It's what Arthur Eddington said about Einstein's theory.
Do you know that famous line?
My favorite of all to explain the UFO phenomenon, something we don't know is doing, we don't know what.
That explains all we actually really understand about what's really going on.
A lot of people talk about manipulation these days, like we're being manipulated, you know, psychically, visually, behavior.
But that's a human perspective. Is it manipulation? I mean, yes, from a human perspective, but is it something else? I don't know. That's the question.
I mean, we are being influenced, but, you know, I said this at the contact in the desert recently, it goes back to what Einstein said, is the universe a friendly place?
And, you know, that's the question you have to answer for yourself.
And if it is a friendly place, and maybe we're getting assistance, I believe it is a friendly place. Look, it's made it very comfortable for humans to be here.
True, you know, in our media and such, we see catastrophic depictions of violence constantly.
And yet, in my actual life, admittedly a privileged and blessed life, I've seen nearly no violence.
People like to thrive on intensity, and I have a whole theory about the archons feeding off emotionality.
What about the archon invasion?
I was going to close my window to reduce the traffic noise for a moment.
Talk about that, Henrietta.
Did we know? I mean, I don't really, look, I don't know what I think of all these sort of narratives, really.
It's just another narrative. It doesn't mean anything.
Well, the narratives are not meaningful until we use them with each other.
Either to help us see together, or to occlude our capacity to see together, right, to replace it with some representation, for example.
My, my roommate Mike Resil was at contact in the desert.
Maybe I met him. What is it?
I will ask him.
And I'm going to be doing some interviews with him as well. He's, he's been deeply invested in the topic. This is how he and I met.
You know, I have a, you know, in my own history, I have a couple of profound non-ordinary experiences.
Yes.
So I'm going to be doing some more somewhat long term, but not continuous.
And of course, you know, I'm happy to answer questions, but that's not what I'm here to talk about today.
Alan, if I may just ask you a few rather direct questions.
What? I'm an open book.
So tell me something about your childhood, you growing up, what was important to you? What bothered you?
Well, yeah, did I have what?
Ashtons, antipathies, whatever you want to share.
Good questions.
I think I would see figures out the window.
Going to sleep faces, but maybe every child sees that.
I did want to be an astronaut because that was big.
When I was growing up, everyone, you know, I actually had an astronaut helmet, I think, or maybe it was a football.
And then it's in my book. If you read my book, I start to become obsessed with science fiction in sixth grade.
This is something we share.
Yes.
Right. Because it had the answers.
You know, it had answers of parallel universes and life on Mars or wherever other planet.
I mean, it was already thinking outside the box science fiction.
I mean, there was one story where, and this was a new concept to like a 10 year old, where people would project their consciousness into robot bodies and they'd be able to walk around as robots with the consciousness.
They're human conscious in these, in these machine bodies.
I mean, that was, that was the Dig the Allen series. And I think that's what it was. That was, that was, you know, I still remember that that was 10 years old or something.
And I ordered those books. I don't know even know, but it was a great series. And, you know, these books, I'm sort of synesthesia.
And also I get a feeling.
From colors or
teams would give me certain feelings like the Yankees versus Mets or the Giants. I would feel.
It's not emotion. I would feel a sensation.
And what would give me sensation is different car color colors on cars when they're real, you got that too.
So interesting. Yes, when I was little.
Yes. Did you ever see the light bright toys?
Those were almost psychedelic, right? They, they had these little pegs. There's a black front piece, right?
And you put these little pegs in the front piece and they would shine with this incredible
like these days we have LEDs, right? But these were, these were sort of like the LEDs of our childhood.
It was something about the metallic red and blue, particularly when they're shiny and this.
I remember my father bought a Cadillac. It was like with the fins. This was like 19s.
And that was really like something from the future too. That was a feeling.
I don't get those feelings as much, but I do can get it with colors, different color combinations like orange and blue or black and gold.
It's happened to be my Haskell colors. But they're not emotions. They're just feeling sensations.
I don't, it's a synesthesia thing. So I don't know what that means, but I feel those vibrations.
That's very familiar to me. And, you know, my, the mothers and fathers of my mind were science fiction authors.
I've read thousands of science fiction stories. So that's funny.
That was how I was educated.
What do you remember? Which ones are your favorite?
I mean, I read everything. So first of all, when I was, before I was even in kindergarten, my parents read Jules Verne to me.
So 20,000 leagues under the sea. And I mean, there's a, there's a lot of symbology here that I think people miss.
I'm sorry. What were you going to say?
I just said journey to the center of the earth was really, he didn't go far enough, you know, I think he was onto something and then he censored himself because there's a whole civilization in the earth.
I'm pretty sure that he probably knew.
It was also about Paris in the future. Do you ever read that Jules Verne's book?
No, that one I don't know.
A lot of things that happened. I think, you know, he wrote in the 1800s, he predicted Paris in 1960 and a lot of it, you know, was remote viewed. So.
You know, there's some things people don't know.
I think that are important because, especially lately, I've been learning a lot more about the ancient Greeks and the mystery traditions and so forth, particularly the relationship between women, snakes, and initiation, right?
I don't know these three topics, but nemosity, the mother of the muses, Captain Nemo, his name is clearly from this. He's the protector of the oceans and the oceans are the origins of life, right?
They're the source of the possibility of memory. He is a protector of the feminine, right?
And, you know, later my mother would become a feminist and I would go to now National Organization of Women Meetings and Stockton in the 1970s, and I would encounter the first actually intelligent human beings that I would ever, you know, that would have a huge impact on my development going forward.
That's good you remember that because I remember just reading, learning to read very stupid, stupid books. See, Jane, run, and that.
Fun with Dick and Jane.
Fun with Dick and Jane.
Yeah, but that put you the reading of those very childish books create a framework for thinking, which was unfortunate.
It's true. There's an apocryphal story where, you know, not to blow my own horn here, but my kindergarten teacher invited my mom, she's like, you know, I got to talk to you about Darren.
And she tells my mom, you know, I'm sorry, Mrs. So-and-so, but your son has a learning disability.
And my mom was like, okay, you know, how did you figure that out? And she said, well, Darren's not paying any attention at all during the reading, you know, segments of our class.
And my mom says to her, what are you, what are you reading?
And she's, you know, she gives her the fun, literally the same book you're talking about fun with Dick and Jane, right? See Jane run.
Mom, I feel sorry for my kindergarten teacher and kind of for my mom.
And I says, you know, Darren's reading 2001, A Space Odyssey. My husband and I are having trouble understanding this book. Do you read any artist?
I was already reading science fiction when I was, I was hyper-lexic as a child.
We should read the sophisticated books when learning to read. That sets a, like I always regretted not being able to study Latin and Greek in high school because that sets a foundation.
Yes.
And one more thing about reading, I remember I was picking up a book and my mother said, you know, there's no pictures in that book.
And I said, I didn't say it, but I thought, why do I need to see, I create pictures in my mind with the words. I don't need to see a picture book.
Every time I read, I create those pictures. So, I mean, my picture is a lot better than the pictures in the book with the, so, I mean, in my mind, so I remember that very clearly, like, yeah, I don't need pictures.
I have my own pictures. Like, you know, that's, it reminds me of that line from that Humphrey Bogart movie, was it Humphrey Bogart? The Treasure of Sierra Madre, he said, badges, we don't need any badges.
You're right.
Anyway, it's something.
And you were very smart as a child. What's your memory of reading and learning to read?
Um, I read fairy tales.
And also, and my mother read me lots of like really interesting stories that I remember being very dark and exciting, like scary, you know.
And, um,
Yeah, I was very, very lucky. I mean, like you're saying, I didn't want, I loved pictures, but I, I, I certainly didn't need them after a while.
Yeah.
Because like you say, it was sort of limiting.
Yes.
So, yeah.
But I really loved, you know, scary stories and, and, you know, I loved Roald Dahl, for instance, you know,
I never read him, but he was English, so we didn't read him.
Yeah, just kind of mischievous and dark, but you know, and then, yeah, and now it's interesting, you know, my, my nephews, for instance, you know, they, I don't know, literature seems a little bit more kind of bland.
I mean, I'm not quite sure.
But that's, you know, I'm glad that I had access to all kinds of different texts.
I really liked Ray Bradbury myself as a child, not Isaac Asimov.
He was not a,
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Very sophisticated.
Except one movie, a one short story called The Last Question.
Never read that book?
Short story?
Is that Isaac Asimov?
Oh, you know what?
I was talking about my childhood childhood.
Yeah.
I mean, later on, yeah.
I read fairy tales and that did that set a kind of structure of perception, reading fairy tales?
Yeah, and also not just, it wasn't just books, but you know, television in England in the 1970s was kind of really interesting.
There are lots of good like science fictiony type series.
You know, obviously there was Doctor Who, but there are also these other ones that, you know, everything was quite, was hyper imaginative in the children's programs and sort of trippy.
And it was just like extraordinarily fun and wild.
That's what I remember about it, like, and joyous, you know, and scary.
There were so many interesting films.
Hammer House of Horror, which was so kind of bad, but they were so excited, you know, they were very simply done low budget.
Imaginative.
The Snow Queen was my favorite film, which was half animation, half reality based on it.
I think it's like an old Swedish, Nordic myth of Snow Queen.
Anyway.
No, that's great. No, like, that's, that's why you're magical.
Well, I also just grew up, you know, we were so lucky I grew up like just running around in the woods.
You know, I mean, that's what I did most of the time and often alone.
It was like, you know, my friends were the trees and the animals and the things that we made things that I made.
And then I had friends too, but it was like, we spent all day outside in the woods on a bicycle.
Yeah, that's good. That's fun. Yes.
Right.
Yes.
So we were lucky because we didn't have.
What's that Darren.
Yes, if you had experiences in childhood that you would categorize as out of the ordinary or that perhaps catalyzed.
Oh, by the way, the word that I was looking for earlier was serendipity.
That's it.
Right. Serendipitous that I met you a few just shortly after I first saw you.
Yeah, so I'm curious if you have any recollection recollections from childhood of anything non ordinary that may have piqued your interest or made you curious or troubled you.
Well, I do remember this. I was very hyperactive. It's a good thing I wasn't born.
Later they would have put me on drugs because I just had I could never, you know, like, I guess if you're a child that your parents like to put you in bed before it gets dark.
I could never go to bed before it gets dark.
So I'd be laying in my bed. I think I must have been two, maybe three years old.
And so how am I going to fall asleep so I close my eyes, but I was looking with my eyes closed, you know, through the darkness, staring into the and then I started to see like this light.
This site, this beam in my third eye, I guess that's what it was but I felt like, I think I was like traveling along the light, you know, in as I mean it's a form of meditation but I was doing it at two years old.
Which I think gave me a sort of omniscient awareness about reality.
It's kind of disconnect, you know, as I could step back and, you know, see the drama around me because I had that inner space.
I thought there must be just as much of an infinite within as there is out there.
You know, people say the universe is infinite, but I think where this little sheet, this film between the infinite inner and the infinite outer.
And I came to something like that as a child that sort of like, yes, the other interesting thing I'm writing about this also in my next book is I remember looking at the television for the first time.
And everybody was very excited, but I didn't see anything on all I saw was this, because it's black and white, this kind of gray fuzz.
There was nothing, people were reacting to this, I could not understand what they were seeing.
And then suddenly I, there was some movement on television that kind of matched the movement of people in the room, my family and friend.
And then when I correlated the patterns, then these figures start to appear on the television screen.
It's like, I didn't see it until I used the correlate pattern perception.
And then ever since I've been not obsessed with patterns, but using patterns, because that's how the left right brain thinks through patterns of awareness.
So patterns were, and also opens up the artistic realm and all that.
So patterns were much more interesting than logic in a sense.
Both hemispheres have a unique relationship with patterns when people experience paranoia or even certain forms of grandiosity, that can have to do with the left hemisphere getting spun up.
The right hemisphere has a much more, to be the right word, sort of an ambient awareness of relationships, like connotations rather than definitions, associations.
I teach in my remote viewing class, the left brain sees the trees, the right brain sees the forest.
There's also, please continue.
What are you going to say also what is also really fascinating. Okay, so so much that you said is really interesting here. First of all, I just want to highlight what you said about the TV, you were you were shown a technological stimulus.
And it, your, your mind was not prepared for the possibility of seeing images on a screen and correlating them with orientation for that I had, I mean, it wasn't even.
Yeah, it was just like natural like, you know, natives, they talk about some of the natives can't even see a black and white photograph they don't get it.
Because it doesn't make any sense. How is it possible that the light shadows could be recorded on a flat like it doesn't. There's no such there's never been anything like that in all of nature.
It is not like our experience of dreaming, even though it may have a deleterious or influential effect on our dreaming when we are exposed to this.
One of the things I think is so important about what you shared is that children, we should be very cautious exposing our children to moving images on screens.
Like that could be much more dangerous than we've ever imagined. And it might even be more dangerous now than it was historically, rather than, you know, we've been evolving with this.
It's such a beautiful. That's exactly the kind of thing I was hoping you might, you know, you might volunteer from your childhood that was that was exquisite.
There's so much more today earlier in the day I was talking with really young man he was talking about the Greeks and how they thought about perception and consciousness and stuff, and the things that you said.
Like, about your experience of closing your eyes, seeing the light, traveling on that light.
Many of the Greek philosophers do not believe that we were capable of perceiving reality, because we are trapped in our human sort of structured sensorium.
And one of the things that they thought was there were like a film, like a superficial skin on things that was deceptive and you mentioned this, this concept, and also the concept of seeing.
You used the phrase third eye, but of seeing like with your eyes closed.
Right, right, right. Seeing the inner world.
Right.
It's very visual. It developed my visual. No, I would never, I wasn't drawn to music. I mean, I like music, but you know, I do like visuals. It's more my entertaining art form is to look as opposed to hear thing, you know, music, but yeah, visuals are my key into creativity.
You are primarily a visual rather than a tactile or auditory thinker.
Yes, that's my main thing. And loving what I see, you know, everything is just so fascinating.
I mean, you're such a warm spirit. You're very unusual because you're profoundly intellectual, but you're just like this warm human, heartful being.
Thank you for saying that.
This is a very uncommon mixture.
I think, you know, don't you think everyone's just like you? I mean, I do.
I wish more people were like you. I'll say that much.
I think everyone, well, you know, of course, we're all different, but I don't know, I think the prejudice of humans is to meet someone and say, until you get to know them, of course, they're similar to you.
They, and then you realize that they're not. And that's, that's a whole other story there.
But fascinated with the world and stories and movies, Jack the Giant Killer, I still remember that movie.
That was like, somehow the movie theater was crowded and maybe I was five years old and I sat by myself in this big screen.
And it was like, it was this animation very primitive by today's standards, but fantastic, multi-dimensional kind of realities on the film screen.
And that was also another doorway into the possible or the impossible.
Do you have any memories from your childhood of non-ordinary experiences that you'd be willing to share here?
Yeah, I mean, well, definitely in my dreaming, you know, I had very interest, well, sort of strange recurring dreams, which I think you and I have talked about Darren.
Yes.
And, but it's interesting listening to Alan talk about how he was visual and he saw that light, you know, when he closed his eyes.
For me, I have to say, I must be a feeling person.
Like I always had like sensations, you know, call them intuitions, if you like, but that was kind of how I was understanding humans.
Wow, you know, why are they talking this nonsense, you know, adults?
Or, wow, this feels really good or this feels really dark.
So it was definitely like, I feel like I was this kind of sensing organism in that way.
So I did have some experiences when I was a little older of, you know, ghosts and visions.
I mean, like, you know, I saw, well, I could just tell you one of them.
I was 16, probably 16, 17, and I was walking across a field in England back from school to my mother's house.
It must have been about 10 at night.
I did that walk every night across fields on the downs and out of nowhere appeared a white horse, like suddenly in my pathway and there was a fence and a bush.
So it didn't, it couldn't, it didn't come from anywhere.
And because I didn't know what I was looking at other than it was a recognizable white horse, but I wasn't sure if it was real because it seemed to be glowing.
And then we just kind of stared at each other.
I don't know for how long.
And then it disappeared into the bush, but it didn't go anywhere like it should have come out the other side.
You know, that was definitely one of my strangest experiences.
And then just because we were speaking about UFOs, I saw at the same kind of age I saw it was either three or five of them.
I can't remember exactly on a clear day in the same place, actually.
Interestingly, I just realized that it was like as I was walking the dog up a road that was very clear to that exact spot.
I'd seen the white horse.
They were above me in the daytime.
In the daytime.
Yeah, a very ordinary day, just walking the dog, very clear blue sky.
And then I saw these things in the sky that I thought were like planes, you know, doing in formation, which I'd seen before.
But then I realized that they weren't making a sound.
There was no sound.
And the way they were moving was not recognizable to me.
They were going forward and then backwards, but rather than that thrust of reverse, they just kind of went backwards.
And then down, you know, like the movement made no sense to me at all.
And there was no sound.
And then they kind of disappeared, but I didn't know how they, like it wasn't like they went up.
So that part of England is a very well known UFO spotting area, right?
Well, no, this that alum, this was in West Sussex, which I think is probably, I don't know if it has many.
But the place where I grew up Darren in England, a place near Manchester, it was called Preston.
And it was my stepfather was in the army and we lived very close to this, to the military, what do you call it, Ministry of Defense headquarters, like right next to it.
It turns out that that that's a very big UFO hotspot, but that's where I spent my earliest years.
And that's when Alan and I have discussed the dream, the recurring dream that I used to have, which I think I've told you about before, but you know, perhaps that's for another time later today.
If you don't feel comfortable sharing about that right now, that's okay.
Well, I do, but I don't want to, I'd like to hear, I'd like to hear what you care to share.
Okay, so that recurring dream, which happened all the time between the ages of like, probably six and 10, something like that.
Because at 10, then I went to another boarding school somewhere else, so I wasn't there.
But it was just, and I would have it quite often it would start by me, I was lying in my bunk bed.
I tried to turn on my light because I felt scared.
At this point, I didn't know I was in a dream.
So what I would do was, if I was scared, would I would turn on my light and I would read a book.
But in what would happen is I would turn on my light and it wouldn't come on.
And then I would know that I was in a dream.
Right. And it was a recognizable dream.
And then I would hear these like footsteps around the house and I knew that they would be coming in.
They would be entering the house and I was afraid.
So I would go through to my mother and stepfather's bedroom and they wouldn't be there.
The bed was made up and my parents weren't in the bed.
So I was like alone in the house.
The footsteps were surrounding.
There was all this commotion and then I would hear them come in and they would be searching for me.
And at that point I would go and hide and try and try all these different hiding places and I'd be kind of like running from room to room.
And then I would go and hide under my bunk bed and it would be very cold.
And then the dream would always end when they would come in.
One of them would like look under the bed that I had my back turned to them.
And it would end with I would always wake up by this finger being run down my back from my neck to the base of my spine.
And I didn't know what that was.
But it was just so incredibly like weird and creepy.
And that's when I would wake up and I just had that dream all the time.
So those were the main features of the finger and the turning on the light, I think.
And then in between that it would be a variation of people coming into the house and taking me away.
And my parents not being in their bed.
It was made up as if they'd never been there.
It was like there was nobody in the house.
Anyway, that's that was the recurring.
So glad you shared that.
I don't know if you realize how both unique in in in its personal relationship to you than it is, but also redolent with with classic themes of the sort of liminal space in the between.
I'm not fully asleep.
I'm not actually lucid.
The attempt to turn on the light, I ask people questions about this all the time about their dreaming, particularly now I'll run through a series of questions. Have you ever seen the sun or seen the moon?
Have you seen stars?
Have you ever attempted to turn the light switch on?
What happened when you tried to turn the light switch on?
And, you know, I remember one one night I went to my girlfriend's house and she was quite disturbed.
She said, you know, I fell asleep.
And I woke up in the darkness.
And I went to turn the light on and it wouldn't go on.
But the light wasn't off when I woke up.
And in the room wasn't dark.
And she was very confused. And this was the first time that I'd ever heard someone do that.
And I hadn't had the light switch experience myself yet, which I have now.
And it's it's quite profound because sometimes I'll go to turn the light on.
It doesn't go on. And then I'll be like, what? So I go to get my flashlight.
It's always with me, right? And I'll try to turn that on.
And when they both don't go on, then, you know, and almost always after that,
something very non-ordinary energetically begins to occur.
Aaron, what's going on? Is this ET interaction you're feeling?
What's going on, you think?
You know, when Gary Nolan talks about his experience in the Japanese hotel where he felt his whole body vibrating,
I think he's just, you know, and I don't know what his experience was.
I'm not trying to say, you know, I'm the expert here, but I think he's not.
He's just not that familiar with the liminal states, right?
The hypnagogic state that comes between waking and sleep,
in which there's a variety of very unusual phenomena.
And the hypnopathic state, which comes on the other side,
in which there's a different usually variety of phenomena.
So I suspect that these are energetic states in which something like our spirit or soul,
maybe we have multiple features of that, are normally they're synchronized,
so we don't feel and experience that shift.
But if they desynchronize slightly, we start to have experience in those liminal states.
What do you think, Alan?
Well, that's good, but I think there's an external causation.
So it's not just all interiorly manifested.
I think it's an interaction with a, maybe it's a part of ourselves, of course,
but it's an extraordinary presence.
I think they're that, and that's what I think people are not.
And this is like really what I would like to get to in the conversation.
People are not aware, including maybe us,
this force that's all around us,
that comes in and out of reality is when there's an opening,
like in a liminal state, it can act,
but most people are so shut down, you know,
that even if it acted, they wouldn't notice it.
But I think that veil between the dimensions is getting thinner.
And there's much more talk, if you look at UFO Twitter,
UFO Reddit, about the phenomena, UFO phenomena and paranormal.
That is an intersection greater than ever.
And of course, no one can explain it because no one can explain the paranormal.
No one can explain.
So, but we're seeing that.
I mean, that's really the beginning of,
if you read Skinwalkers at the Pentagon,
that's why Likowski went to Skinwalker to understand the relationship
between UFOs and the paranormal, because that was a paranormal spot.
And I think, I mean, I think the paranormal is a ridiculous word
for something that is in a way always here, you know.
In other words, it's not supernatural.
It's natural. Please continue.
I just wanted, can I ask you a question, Darren and Ellen,
because what this makes me think, you know, you talking about this to me,
I have this sense, obviously not a knowledge,
but just this sense that it's like, it's very much,
it's just a part of our mind and the whole thing that is just becoming more,
you know, I want to say, Ellen's talking about veils,
like less concealed from us, from, right?
And it's kind of, it's almost like it's sort of slipping in.
I mean, the only thing that I find that I can't,
it's really difficult to think about is why do,
why does it seem like we're looking at hard physical objects in the sky?
That's interesting, because that's different to like dream states
and what you're talking about, liminal states.
Darren.
No, a lot of people think about why are there,
if they're told consciousness, why are there hard physical objects?
That's the question.
Like, what is that?
They're in the world, but not of the world.
So I think they can get caught in 3D,
but they don't exist here in that way,
but they come in and out of this dimension and they solidify,
but we're the same.
If we look at who we really are with the bodies,
it's not really who we are, right?
Right.
Somehow they've mastered this ability of the,
of collapsing the wave function into form and not collapsing it.
I have a whole theory, Darren, about how to think like an ET,
which is not collapsing the wave function so you can stay in two places at once.
Right.
Remain in superposition.
Exactly.
I have a very similar perspective.
And I think what we see in,
what we probably see in the sky, first of all,
what are, you know, what are UFOs?
Well, it's not one thing.
Right.
And, you know, and as modern as we have this sort of one thing,
my, oh, it's this.
Oh, that's that.
Whatever things might be, it's never that simple unless it's something,
unless our concern is very trivial.
Right.
Is this a glass or not?
Of course, you know, it works there.
But in terms of phenomena, it doesn't work.
That kind of thinking just doesn't work at all.
There's probably 9,000 different things and there's like spectra of different things.
But, you know,
the Greeks believed that we have a secondary form that they call the soma pneumatica,
the spectral body.
And the mystery traditions were,
were catalysts for producing this kind of experience in us and possibly actually
producing a death experience so that we like completely get outside the human
for a moment.
I don't know.
But what I'm trying to say is that I think there's a range of phenomena.
Some of them might be relatively similar to just actual vehicles.
You know, like this is a physical vehicle, possibly from another planet.
I don't know that some of the spectrum might be that.
Yes.
There's a, there's a, unfortunately, there's a really weird correlation between
UFOs, gods, angels, archons.
Yes.
Titans, right?
All of these, there's a, there's a correlation.
I'm not saying they're the same thing.
You're related and it's complex.
Problematically, the way we moderns think the way we use categories is insufficient.
In my view, to encompass these phenomena or to shed light upon, to illuminate them,
to our thought, what are your thoughts, Alan?
Just our whole structure of reality has to be reformatted.
You know, right?
And yeah, we are paranormal in the sense that we,
we create the realities around us, you know?
So, I mean, people have said that and it's, create the, you know,
William James said, we walk in a atmosphere of our own creation, you know?
We also coined the term stream of consciousness, William James.
He was, and he was a, he was a totally into psychic phenomena too.
So, and he was also the father of American psychology.
So he had all this stuff.
Do you know Jonathan, Jonathan Bricklin, Henrietta from the open center?
No, I don't.
She visited him.
He wrote a great book about William James.
It was quite the visionary.
And, you know, he's the one who said other forms of reality exists right around this
and apply the right stimulation and they appear.
So he, he experimented with psychedelics.
You know, he nitrous oxide was really big in the 1890s.
And with experiment with that and, and go into these other worlds.
Now it's DMT, but maybe it's all the same.
I bring that up.
Yes.
Well, recently I've experimented with much smaller amounts of psychedelics.
Psilocybin specifically where that was really interesting.
Being able to slip between, I don't know, very like different channels.
Whereas if you kind of blast off, then that's a whole, a whole other encounter with reality.
But a lot happens for me personally, like, which is not about my personal psychology,
or it doesn't seem to be, which is interesting.
It used to be, but now it's kind of like whole other worlds that I do not run into.
So it's one of those worlds that I do not recognize.
Like, yeah.
That's where we're.
With my.
With what?
With micro doses.
No, not my producers.
This was like, for instance, this was just one gram as opposed to three or, you know, 2.5.
There's a very different experience.
I wanted to say something about, you were talking about the structure of reality.
Oh, yeah.
Like, could it, could it be that just, you know, if we are becoming, right?
If everything is still in a stage of becoming something like the UFO is like Darren says,
I love thinking about it in terms of like, it's 9000 different ways of becoming.
So we, we're just kind of feeling our way there.
But I, Alan and I, the summer Darren were in England together and we were talking about
crop circles, right?
Cause we're both really interested in that.
And where I live in England, it's quite a hotspot for those.
And one appeared the next day, like five minutes from my house.
So Alan and I got in the car and we like went up there and we were able to kind of go and
explore this particular one.
And this farmer, we met a very down to earth farmer who just kind of, we were lucky enough
to meet him.
And he said, yeah, you know, I can show you some on my phone from like four years ago from
last year.
And he was like, I have no idea what they are, but I, I don't think that some of them are
manmade.
They're just like, it's impossible.
And this was this guy who was, you know, he had no like real interest.
It was just, they happened to keep appearing on his land.
And that was how he was interested, you know, right?
Alan, it's, it was like a very interesting thing.
And Darren, I want to tell you too that this field that it appeared in was right in front
of this 5,000 year old burial site, which is a long barrow in England.
So that was interesting.
See, this is the other weird thing is that there are places on the earth.
Yes.
That are not regular places.
That's exactly it.
And also once you build cities and stuff on top of things.
Yes.
Something up, like there's a whole, there's a whole topic here that we could explore.
Ancient places in Europe are not regular places.
And this is an important idea because we as moderns, we think we know what stuff is and
we think we know, you know, what the universe is, what the world is, what's supposed to
happen and blah, blah, blah.
When the Frank truth is we're dealing with less than 0.05% like not even one percent.
Our knowledge is so wildly incomplete and so fundamentally malforged by ideas from
science and religion.
Yes.
But Alan, there's so many, I have so many questions I want to ask you and this doesn't
have to be the last conversation, but there's, I've got like some burning questions.
Can I just throw a few at you?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I have.
Yeah, let's go to 11 on.
Well, at least on the.
All right.
We can reconvene another time soon, hopefully as well.
I like these conversations because I appreciate your intelligence.
And of course I love talking to Henrietta.
So, yes.
I'm loving this conversation.
It's like, it's a lot of new ways of thinking about things.
Actually, it's, yeah.
Go ahead, Darren.
I want to actually, you know, I'm not just here to.
To pay those compliments, but it's hard not to.
One of the weird things about Alan is that there are people who make claims, you know,
that they're like psychic or they're powerful or something.
But one of the weird things about Alan is that there is this natural serendipity and.
You know, one of the things that occurs to me.
Is that he has been a central, like a, like a honey bee that's visited.
You know, 10,000 flowers, right?
And just gathered this pollen from all of these brilliant minds and spiritual powerful
spiritual beings.
I mean, he's interviewed some of the castanet and witches and I don't even,
I can't even imagine what his life and mine must be like.
But I want to just ask you, Alan, if there's one or two standout stories where you met
someone and immediately either in the meeting or shortly thereafter,
something very dramatic occurred that you can remember.
Are there, do you have any stories like that?
It's Lipton.
I can't say I discovered him, but no one knew him because he was living
in Northern California.
You know who Bruce Lipton is.
I know his name.
Say more about him, please.
He was really bringing spirit back into biology.
He's an anchor when he in.
He says Darwin, Darwin never explained anything.
Darwin doesn't explain how one species becomes another species.
Adaptation.
Yes.
I mean, that's, but specialization Darwin had no idea.
And I don't think many people do have.
My own theory about why, but the thing that Bruce Lipton said,
which was a sort of epiphany for him is that, you know,
well, there's many that you have to listen to my interview with them,
but there are single cells, right?
And everything was a single cell at the beginning of time.
You know, a cell perceives the environment based on the receptor
sites on the membrane.
So he says the membrane is really the brain of the cell,
not, not the nucleus.
He says that's a sex organ, which is where most people think their
brains are, but, but the perceptual organ in the,
in the cell.
Yeah.
And the nucleus is just to reproduce.
So the survival depends on how big your awareness is, right?
I mean, the more awareness is the better your chances of survival.
So the membrane can hold only so many receptor sites.
And there's, this is Bruce Lipton.
There's a receptor site for everything in your environment.
There's a receptor site for maybe that organism or this, you know,
and the cells only move.
They have one, two, two options to move towards something,
which is food to move away from something that could be harmful.
And we still sort of function on that kind of cellular level.
But so if a cell can only have so much awareness based on the
membrane size, too big a membrane will not help hold the cellulose
in there to break apart.
So what the cells did through the genius of nature was hook up with
another cell.
And they say, you look that way, I'll look this way.
And they formed colonies of cells, but they weren't organisms yet.
Something magical happened when one cell hooked up with another cell,
and then they started to share awareness and boom, they became an organism
like all the cells in your body are, are all individual consciousness,
but they're forming what this is Bruce Lipton's term, the synergy of awareness.
So they're all coming together to make this focal point, all the cells in
your body, trillions of cells or billions at least are coming together to
form the synergy of awareness for you, Darren and Henrietta.
So the synergy of awareness is the key to evolution.
So the synergy of awareness.
And he says, that's where we are in the human drama.
We still think we're separate beings.
We're walking around our own individual thing.
And he says, we are not humans until we create humanity.
That's when we all come together realize we're all part of this bigger
super organism called humanity.
Then we have a singularity of voice, not the Kurzweil singularity,
but the singularity of consciousness where we form a synergy of awareness.
Yeah, all your cells are still separate, but they're all formed.
So the synergy of awareness of the super organism we're calling humanity
will eventually realize we're all connected.
When that happens, this is Lipton, we form a oneness that allows us to meet
other onenesses.
This is the UFO situation.
Then we form the next level of super organism where we link consciousnesses,
earth, human consciousness with these other consciousness to form the next
super organism of intergalactic awareness or whatever that is.
That I thought was very interesting.
Isn't that interesting?
You're right.
There's a reason why my website is organelle.org.
It's not an accident.
It's basically about cellular synergy.
It's also the metaphor.
We have organelles in our cells that used to be separate organisms.
Our solar system is not entirely dissimilar.
It has a nucleus.
It has these organelles.
One of them is packed with biological organisms.
I want to ask you, Alan, do you think that the other planets might be
inhabited by something other than organisms?
Has this concept ever been exposed to you?
What do you mean other than organisms?
Wouldn't it be organisms as opposed to other organisms?
What I'm asking you is, I've heard, for example, a theory that there's layers.
There's like dimensional layers.
Yeah.
And in different layers, the other planets are inhabited.
Yeah.
This is a root of Steiner kind of idea.
If you ever look at Steiner.
Okay.
That's true.
I mean, Earth is like the planet to planet and evolves certain perceptions,
emotional perception.
I mean, Earth is like the emotional, but, you know,
but it's sort of Steiner.
But I think there are just beings on other planets that, you know,
living their own reality.
But I do think, and no one ever talks about this with ETs,
is that the David Anderson, you know who he is?
He's a time traveler or talked about time travel.
He says the speed of the Earth, the rotation,
the Earth forms a matrix of time space.
So we live in a particular framework of consciousness.
That's based on, that's why astronauts have such a weird time when they go
into outer space because they're outside the,
the incubation of the mother's perceptual field.
So it's, it's each, and each son, I also think has a,
has a pattern of consciousness.
Like a template.
What?
Like a template.
Yeah.
A vibrational, it's like the sun or the star of your system sets your,
sets the mode of your consciousness field.
So meeting beings from another star, it's like,
I talk about it like, how do you get Wi-Fi on an AM radio?
It's like, it's a different vibration.
That's sort of, I understand it.
But it also be like the children of two different stars meeting.
And so through those children, those two stars are meeting.
Right?
Yeah.
Yes.
We have the capacity because we're infinite.
Of course consciousness, which I teach in the remote viewing class is not local consciousness.
The thing where it's not local to Earth,
but it's calibrated through the Earth frequency.
And it's also infinite if we break outside.
Right, Henrietta?
Yeah.
Well, no, I just wanted to tell a quick story.
If I went to this festival with Alan this summer in England,
he was speaking there and he did this remote viewing experiment.
And what was interesting to me was, well, I, I got it.
Right.
Which was like so weird.
It just kind of happened.
And then the only other person that got it in quite a large room was the girl sitting right next to me.
Yes.
The whole thing of like the membrane.
I don't know.
With that, that'd be a thing.
It was just interesting.
It was like, we both had the same image and it sort of came in in the same way because we talked about it.
And then it was a slightly different way that it formed out.
But, you know, we got, we got it.
Yeah.
So consciousness is very influential.
It's a, it's a, you know, I also talk, this is another theory of mind there and that consciousness is an app.
It's an application.
And people don't realize they just think it is what they are, but it's an app that you can use.
And I said this and oh, you're too bad you weren't in contact in the desert.
I talked, I hosted the remote viewing panel.
And I said, if so, if you imagine, you remember the 1950s, 60s, the core, the, the, there were phones that had cords on, you know, wired phone.
Everyone grew up with them.
Yes.
I remember.
The dial and no answer.
Yeah.
In the 1950s, 60, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, maybe 80s.
But if I came to that time and said, you know, I have a phone where I can watch television.
I can make, you know, I could see people around the world.
I could, you know, I could buy things online.
I mean, if I said that they would not understand how a phone that you just talk to people could possibly do those other things.
They haven't explored the application of the phone, just like we have not explored the application of consciousness.
We just think it's a line hooked to the wall.
But these other beings, you know, they can come into your dreams.
They could no merge with their craft.
They could move through time and space.
They've learned to use consciousness as an app.
And we try to talk to the wall.
That's, that's the difference.
That's beautiful.
That's amazing.
I really like that.
Yeah.
That's a wonderful toy.
And I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
Say more.
That's the better here, because it was like, I had thought about that.
And then in front of like, you know, a couple hundred people is trying to communicate this, but I'm fine tuning it right here.
So thank you.
Beautiful.
It's fantastic.
That's very good.
Right.
How could you think about it?
Explain what a phone in 2024 could do to someone using a phone in 1960.
There's framework.
What are you talking about using all those things?
That's how far behind we are in the application of consciousness.
What would they make of this?
Exactly.
It makes sense to them.
How could you possibly call anyone?
I know a few more questions.
So I want to get back to the question I asked you previously, and I have so many more.
But of all the people you interviewed, was there someone who either produced an immediate unexpected effect or shortly after meeting them, you were either frightened or astonished?
Well, like I said with Bruce Lipton, when he made, and I'll go to other people too, but when he said, we'll only meet the other ones once we become the one.
It's like, oh, that makes sense.
It's like that buzz on the television.
It's like that.
It's like the fuzz that you saw on the television.
It wasn't integrated.
Exactly.
Very good.
That's good, Darren.
That's good.
You're absolutely right.
Yes.
So it's, um, but Nassim Harnin, another genius, you know, he's amazing.
Yeah.
Talked about astrophysicists, right?
You know, Nassim?
Yes, I do.
From New York.
I remember putting a talk.
Everything is a black hole.
Universe is actually a black hole.
A whole universe itself, but also the smallest edge of that black hole is the Planck's constant because that's as small as we can see.
But inside that, there's another black hole, but inside every atom is a black hole.
He says there's no strong and weak forces.
That's just a fudge factor.
There's only gravity and electromagnetism, and they're really effects of mass interacting with other masses.
So, um, but he says, so there's no weak force and strong force.
What's holding the, um, the atom together is that implosion factor, you know, that pulling together.
And, uh, that's why atom bombs.
When you pull these atoms apart, creates such a huge thing because there's such a strong force holding matter together.
And that's this black hole sort of in the center of Adam.
Then you're ripping that apart.
You know, you're just creating this massive chain reaction.
I mean, he doesn't quite say that.
But inside atoms, inside every cell, there's a black hole inside every human.
You know where the black hole is in humans?
I could guess.
What do you guess?
Behind the umbilicus.
I would say it's more in the heart because that's what gets the heart beating all the time.
At force.
And there's black holes in the center of every star.
There's black holes in the center of every galaxy, which you see.
It's obvious, you know, that, you know, and I, there's one more thing.
The missing, the dark energy and dark matter is also another fudge factor.
They're just not calculating the real weight and mass of black holes,
which are doorways into other dimensions.
So they don't even know what that is.
So anyway, what are we going to say?
Henrietta.
Oh, I just wanted to say about the black hole just briefly because I'm a person that sort of feels things without really understanding intellectually.
The black hole thing when I've been around people that have slightly sociopathic or I've discovered they are.
You get the feeling of the black hole is right where you said it, Darren, like right there in that sort of like gut womb, you know, that area.
It's like, there's nothing there.
That could be, yeah.
There could be different kinds.
There could be different kinds.
Yes, totally.
Alan, I just wanted to ask you to just when you mentioned Nassim Haramane.
And so it's interesting that you've, you know, you've pulled those two people out, but I want to take you back to Darren's original question because I'm really curious.
Like he is about amount, you know, all the thousand hundreds and thousands of people you've met and interviewed and also just met and been curious about because Darren Alan is a person that will just talk to anybody.
At any time and get and have really fascinating conversations like they don't have to be famous and well known and they've written this book.
They're just like a kid on the street. You know, that's interesting to me more so in a way.
But so Alan, I wanted to bring you back to that question of like see just what comes to you naturally is like these really like Darren said, you know, these really visceral experiences that kind of resonated afterwards.
And let me say one more thing, not theories.
Yes, exactly.
What shocked you? What was like lightning? What did you meet someone and then like a few days later you're in contact with another intelligence.
I want to hear like if there was what's the Mount Everest of your experience.
I have to say 1981 I saw my first channel, like Jay-Z Knight Ramtha, you know that Ramtha story.
And, you know, channeling no one talked about channeling in 1981 and this was a woman who channeled so she claimed a 35 year old war 35,000 year old warrior from Atlantis.
And she would go into a trance and the war and Ramtha the warrior from Atlantis would come through.
And I thought like one of three things, of course, she's probably acting, or she's psychotic, you know, those two, or, or maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe, perhaps this is really going on.
So I heard a tape of Ramtha.
And in this tape is to kind of get used to like this woman was that you know people ask all sorts of ridiculous questions like what they should do about their cat. Anyway, this one was about her skin.
She had this like skin problem and she tried everything, you know, and she didn't know what to do anymore because it would just flare up.
And Ramtha says to her, Have you tried loving it?
And you could see there was a gas but it's like, I haven't thought of that.
So I thought, Well, maybe also this could be about love.
So I went to around the audience.
It was October 1981 Central Park West 75th Street.
Right next to the cyclical center in New York, actually.
It's right from the Dakota.
But it's 81.
Anyway, I'm in the audience with Ramtha people asking some questions. And it's about 100 people or something. And then he calls on me.
And he says to, and I'm sitting in the back, he says, What say you beloved entity, how be you this day in your time.
That was the kind of language Shakespeare and I looked around and, you know, there was no one behind me.
I said, Me goes indeed, beloved entity, you'd be a most.
And then then what happened was that the room started to get, I would say misty or like a fog or or distorted somehow.
And I felt as if I was coming out of my body, something's coming out of the Ramtha's body from this.
And we sort of embraced in the room in the middle of that room and energetically.
And then then I knew that I knew there was more than the physical reality.
Then I knew like that was a door opening into the realms of metaphysics.
Then, you know, and I said, Well, maybe there's something to this. I'm going to look at this.
If there's nothing to it, it'll just be, you know, empty, nothing to see there.
And then, you know, I started to read metaphysical books or three initiates, the Kabalyan.
And once you open that door, there's no other side because it is a deep, deep well.
And that was the awakening to this.
That was the beginning of the journey right there, right then in October.
And yeah, you can't go back out and say it's not real because it is real.
So I have to say Ramtha was the initiator.
Jay-Z Knight, who's who I saw recently out of contact in the desert. She was waiting.
I was on the stage. She was waving at me.
And I said, Who's this woman waving at me? I said, Oh Jay-Z. Hi, Judith Knight.
I'm sorry, Judy. Anyway, I've known her whole story.
And she was waving at me from the stage I used to be waving at her.
Real like full circle, sort of thing. And that was like, Oh, wow.
It took about 20 years, 40 years, whatever it was.
like, yeah, that was sort of like, like a whole completion of the thing, or not completion,
but it was just very strange that she was in the audience and I was on the stage.
And it's because of her, in a sense, I was on the stage.
That's great.
I opened the door, and you know, I have to also say, my father was very spiritual.
Oh, yeah.
I like this.
I was just thinking about your early childhood and your experiences and what your father
was and introduced you to.
Yeah.
My father gave me permission because he was interested in, but he was also a tourist
and he grew up poor in depression.
He had to make money.
And he, because he was sort of a searcher, seeker, like, oh, it's okay to be that way.
Because my father said to it, it's like, that was a role, good role model, you know.
I never really had a problem.
A lot of people have problems with their fathers and I had more problems with my mother.
My father, my father was, you know, he worked hard, made money.
What was your spiritual practice together?
What would you do?
Well, when he got ill, we would go to Michio Kushi Institute.
We'd eat rice for five days, you know, with different healers.
He was into Zen, Zazen, when he was starting to open up to, you know, higher consciousness.
So he would go to this little, I always thought Zen and Buddhism was very, very boring, you
know.
What about his, was he interested in Kabbalah?
That wasn't like really, it was very much Orthodox Judaism.
There really was.
By his time, he started a little bit to become interested, but it wasn't really a thing if
you were brought up kind of.
Orthodox.
It wasn't a spirituality about Judaism.
Can I ask you a question about, you know, because I mean, this is a bigger conversation,
but just very briefly, like, do you think that you, that you were talking about, you
were talking about Latin and Greek, you know, and learning that as kids and that would be
a good idea.
Do you think that Hebrew as a language was influential in your...
Well, I said Latin and Greek because of the language of the intellectual, you know, that's
what drew me to Latin and Greek because it's the...
But I do think, and I have a whole like cosmology about civilizations where, you know, the Greco-Roman
influence kind of merged with the Judeo-Christian, and that became the manifestation of Western
consciousness.
So I do think the Judaism influenced the Christianity, but also had an influence on some of the Greek.
And anyway, right there in Alexandria is where it all came together, I think basically
with Gnosticism.
So I think it's foundation, it's beauty, but of course the foundation of Judaism was
Ur, Babylonian, and you know, Abraham, Abraham may have been a Brahmin, a Brahmin, it could
have come from, you know, and the whole idea of worshiping a single God, which isn't really
true because they talk about the Elohim, which is a plural of God, you know, Adonai Elohim.
So El is a singular, Elohim is the gods.
So, you know, there's a lot of strange things that is never explained in Judaism that is
much more mystical, and I think Kabbalah is one.
I think if you read Carlos Suarez, oh, you should read Carlos Suarez when you come back
to my apartment.
He's a real Portuguese mystic, like him, Henriette, he's very smart.
I like him.
Yeah.
He's a whole different, he's really mystical.
But anyway, Judaism, Hebrew, it's not the, it's the, maybe the spiritual language of
the West foundational, but it's not the intellectual language, right?
That's my thing.
That's interesting.
But Greek is the foundation of Western thought, in a sense.
There's a lot of controversy recently about whether or not the Torah ever existed in Hebrew
before it existed in Greek in terms of it being written at all.
No, what about the, there's all these dead sea scrolls, there's all these buried Torahs.
I mean, I think it must, no, because the Hebrew language is sort of the Torah, no.
I think the Torah, no, I think it's an ancient tradition.
They just don't last that long because they're written on sheepskin, and sheepskin probably
doesn't last for thousands of years, you know.
But yeah, then it was translated into Greek and to Latin and to English.
So to return to the question, other stories of something that really deeply affected you,
your initiation was very powerful story, but other stories that affected me like that.
Well, with people, meetings with people, right, that, that really influenced you or produced
an unsurprising result around the thing, I think is the most dramatic for me, because
that was a, that was a moment of shifting reality.
That was, you know, seeing UFOs.
What was the first experience of that?
Oh, I was actually in New York City, and it was after, I think, the Simon and Garfunkel
concert.
And I was walking home down Six Feet, and I saw a light in the sky, and it looked like
it admitted a blue bean, and I thought to myself, did I just see a blue bean come out
of this thing?
It did it again, so, strange, but then in my book, I talk all about meeting this woman,
Jane and Sedona, and our travels together, and how we were both abducted together.
And I did feel, I met her and Sedona at a workshop called Laugh Your Way to Ascension,
and I felt her as she walked into the room, but she was with a friend, I wasn't sure who
I was feeling in the room that had walked by and kind of stimulated my aura, but after
I met them both, I figured out, oh, okay, it's this one, and then I think we were both
taking a board together, and, you know, she traveled around after meeting her, and Sedona
we traveled.
We drove back across country where I think it was in North Platinum, Nebraska, that
abduction took place, my abduction, where there was a mark on the back of my leg, and
it's interesting, it's the same leg that's been bothering me, Henrietta.
I think it may have been an act of the aetheric implant from back then.
Naren, do you know, do you know quite a lot about these strange marks that appear on people?
I wouldn't call myself an expert, I've followed people's topics since I was a child.
Oh, you have?
Yeah.
Yeah.
But so, yeah.
Naren, have you been taking a board?
No, but I had a long experience of contact with a non-human intelligence that was with
me.
Oh, really?
Yes.
My whole, the intelligence you see in me today is the result of that.
Yes, and that's how I was first drawn to your work, Naren.
I mean, just because it's like, who is this?
This is like, doesn't sound like a human.
It's too intelligent.
I want to interview you about that, Naren, okay?
Absolutely.
I would love that.
And I want to have more conversations like this one in the very near future, like within
the next week or two.
Okay, where were we going here?
So the answer, Henrietta, is no.
I have known a few people who spoke of having implants.
I am familiar with the topic.
I have read a bit about it.
But I don't know, like I don't know anyone.
I've known a couple of people who, you know, directly said there's something under my skin
or there was something in my...
Yes, which is very interesting, right?
I mean, a good friend of mine just kind of who is very, very intuitive.
She's an amazing singer.
She sings like an angel.
She just, she had a very strange, like scar thing that just appeared on her wrist one
morning.
She also has very extraordinary dreams, you know, where her father comes to visit her,
her dead father.
So she's very, she has a lot of non-ordinary experiences.
And so I was curious about that mark that appeared, because I read so much of that in
the UFB abduction literature that always seems like, honestly, I'm so kind of, I don't know
if skeptical is the word, but I can't, it's like I just don't know how to begin thinking
about it.
You know, there's, there's topics that are so unusual that we don't know how to vet
the reports.
That's right.
So we can't tell, like, how do I even tell the difference between the stuff that's real
or that's, you know, relatively important?
And then there's, there's, so there's two real problems here.
One is madness and delusion actually, there is such a, such a thing.
Sure.
Yes.
Alan will be back in a moment.
Okay.
So madness and delusion actually do happen, right?
And it doesn't mean that they're wrong.
Yeah.
There's nothing valuable in there.
It just means that there's, it's scrambled the, yes, you can't necessarily trust the
surface story.
That's right.
I've known people who went out of their minds, I had very close, very close friends who were
schizophrenic or psychotic.
Yes.
Yes, me too.
I've had moments of my own consciousness where I am, I've become disoriented in what
I'm paying attention to and why I'm paying attention.
That's a good way of putting it, yeah.
And so often what happens, at least what has happened with me is that my threat sentinel
lights up and that is so powerful that it warps my cognition around it.
That's such a good way of putting it.
Actually, I remember talking to you about that, but that's a good way.
So I've had experiences of that.
So there is madness and delusion on the one hand.
Then we have objective fact, which is what we get from empirical quote unquote pursuits
of mankind, which are very weird by the way, if, you know, just talk at some point about
just how strange the idea of empirical reality is, because it's very, very weird.
It's much weirder than, well, you know, we did the test 500 times with 500 people and
the same thing happened every time, right?
Okay, great.
But what portion of reality does that refer to, like less than a thousandth of 1% or something?
That's right.
And then, you know, what you were saying about your friend, Henrietta, that I think is very
important because it cued me into something and in conversations like this, there's something
very powerful happening that resembles what Alan was talking about when the cells come
together and form a singularity, right?
Now we can all see better because of the brightness of each of our minds and our hearts and our
history and our passions, right?
Yes.
That's real magic as far as I'm concerned.
Yes.
There's one very strange thing.
If there were a dimension of our ordinary lives in which we could safely interact with
other realities and other intelligences, it's obviously dreaming.
You say your friend has unusual dreaming experiences.
She wakes up with something, you know, in her wrist or whatever, how, you know, why do
we think that, okay, we have the same problem with dreaming that we have with UFOs, right?
Yes.
Those things might be actually just relatively ordinary dreams.
Yes.
A whole range of experiences in ordinary, not by a long shot.
That's right.
Yes.
We should help each other think more intelligently about these topics and experiences and potentials
for the much more than merely human that we are and can be together.
Well, you know who talks about this in a good way is, although I don't agree with a lot
of it, is Donald Hoffman saying that space and time, objective, subjective, these are
illusions.
These are not realities.
There is no subject object.
There is no time and space or fabrications.
They don't really exist.
They only exist in the mind that creates them, but there's no, there's no time or space in
the reality of consciousness, basically.
She doesn't say that, but I say that, so fabrications of frameworks, but there's no essence of themselves.
Oh, Darren, I have a question for you.
Have you seen a UFO?
Have you seen things?
Yes.
I thought so.
Yes, twice, but I wouldn't say that what I saw, the first time what I saw is probably
more properly called a fireball.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think it's also spoken to friends who've experienced those.
It lit up the night sky about four times brighter than daylight, and I believed immediately
that someone had detonated a nuke.
So I just thought, oh, we're dead.
It's over.
My friend's on the other side of the tree.
He's like swearing.
He's looking toward it.
I'm looking away from it.
It was nuts.
It was crazy.
I've seen some other very weird things that were explained away as rocket launches, but
certainly didn't look like a rocket launch to me.
And then very recently, I saw a configuration of white flying objects in the sky over Stockton,
and I pointed out to my son, like, what the hell is that?
He's like, I don't know.
The only conceivable explanation I have for that sighting was that it could possibly be
drones in a formation, possibly, but I don't know what that was, and I also had a weird
feeling when I was looking at it.
Oh, that's interesting.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it is interesting.
You know, I loved what you said, Henrietta, when you were talking about your experience
with the UFO, because you said it wasn't making any noise.
Exactly.
But there's something even weirder than that, which is that many UFOs seem to cause a form
of silence.
Oh.
Right?
Oh, what's the phenomenon, you know, a good friend of mine who saw one when she was a child
with her father, who was like a judge, right, in Westchester County, before they had the
experience of seeing this huge ship the size of a football field actually come down into,
like, this shaped her whole life, but her father, who was excited for about two weeks
and then completely banished it from his mind.
But before they saw that, they were driving in the car, and they heard a noise that was
high pitched and like nothing they'd ever heard, which caused him to like pull over
to the side of the road because it was freaky.
So I don't know.
I'm just interested in like, there's always a little bit on every level.
There are silent UFOs, but they also make these sounds and they also, light and sound
are a big part of the UFO activity.
Look at any abduction report.
It always involves, so, yeah.
It's a complex phenomenon.
It's not ever the same for two people.
But anyway, I should go soon.
But Darren, I do want to hear about your, you're looking much better too, and you look much
happier than you did last time.
You do.
You do.
You look healthy.
Well, I'm actually just so absolutely elated to be having this conversation together with
you all.
Like, this is a very high point in my world, and I'm super excited.
Well, and also let's hope it leads to more like really soon.
I would love to hear you both speak about things a lot more.
I'd like to be able to ask you both questions, actually.
How are you doing, Henrietta?
How's Portland?
Oh, it's great.
I love it.
It's beautiful, bursting with beauty and sunshine, and I'm, it's lovely to see my friend.
He's writing the most fascinating book.
About what?
Well, she's a criminal lawyer and she works on, you know, Clemency petitions to get prisoners
out of prison who are wrongly convicted.
So there's a lot of like extraordinary stories of, you know, what happens to these people
inside and just, it's amazing and how, and how it's affected her and her relationship.
So she is an actual human angel.
No, I know.
Great.
Well, that's why I'm interested in what she's doing, you know, and in the context of her
life.
So this book is going to be amazing because it's kind of her life of where she goes from
point, you know, beginning to now and how weird world in England, which I know because
we were kids together.
We've no need to say that since we were children to this, you know, how she's actually doing
this in Portland, like she's got out more prisoners in Portland than ever in the history
of Portland.
How long will you be there?
Just another week or so on this particular journey, this leg, I'm going to the prison
soon with her.
I'm super excited to meet some people and kind of go into an environment which I don't
know.
And I want to.
Are you staying with me when you come back?
Do you need a place?
Thank you so much.
No, I'm good because I'll go back to Brooklyn.
But I'll definitely see you.
We're going to hang out, obviously.
Let's go upstate, too.
Let's go to Hudson.
Yes.
We're going to visit my friend, Mary.
Mary is the friend Darren that saw the UFO as a kid.
Yeah.
And she's really wonderful.
I want to say this actually about like this is an interesting part of the phenomena to
me.
Like it does seem to activate possibly a lot more of sort of a lot of different intelligences
or sensitivities or whatever you want to say.
You know, Mary's an amazing painter and it's, but she seems to draw people to her through
her immense kindness and, you know, way of like intuition.
And she reckons what she said to me about that experience.
I knew once that had happened that life was just unknowable.
Like we didn't know anything.
That's exciting.
Yeah.
Whereas her father was so free to help.
He was excited for a minute and then he was like, he just pretended it never happened.
I have to go, but OK.
Thanks.
So lovely to meet you, guys.
I presume I have your permission to, uh, man post our conversation.
Posting it.
Yes.
Yes.
I look a little weird.
I'm laying down, you know, it's like, oh, Alan, you look great.
And you said great things.
It was very interesting.
What both of you said.
Yeah.
I mean, I just feel a little weird about my, OK, but yeah, where do you post it?
On my YouTube channel.
All right.
I mean, I guess it's fine.
Do you?
You look great.
There's no weirdness there.
It's not like you're in your bathroom.
I want to make sure everybody's comfortable.
So we'll discuss it.
I'm pushing him down because I'm his friend.
Much more respectful than I am saying that what you said was so good, it would be a shame
not to share it.
Yes.
OK.
OK.
Great.
See you guys.
Much love.
See you soon.
Yes.
