There's a really unusual problem that's everywhere around us.
It's in plain sight and we don't know how to look at this problem together.
And the problem is that the collectives that we tend to form in modern nations and societies
are not human, they're not human collectives.
And so, in a very real sense, it seems that our species does something like making gods.
We make collectives formed around fictions and then adopting those fictions embody them
and become this superpower that dominates everything underneath it.
And wouldn't it be ironic if all the ancient stories and religions were actually about
this peculiar struggle and what we have left today are the remnants of the earliest phases
of that struggle which we have failed to understand entirely and believe to be about universal
intelligences, sky intelligences, demons, angels, and so on.
This isn't to say that there are not other true intelligences, but rather that what we
tend to do for some reason that I think we should all try to discover is we assemble fictional
collectives that dominate nature, the history of life on earth, our humanity, our own lives,
the future, our relationships, our minds, and their potentials.
And these are like gods, but rather than being called Yahweh, they are called ExxonMobil,
Monsanto, CIA, the United States, India, Iran, Israel.
And there's a really interesting metaphor that comes from Middle Eastern culture.
There's many magical, sort of, magico-religious cultures in the Middle East, and these have
roots that are far more profound than any common modern person is capable of supposing
because they come from the sources of the struggles that we're here engaged in exploring
together.
But in a Kabbalistic tradition, a possibly hermetic and esoteric branch of mystical
Judaism, there's the concept of a golem.
And a golem is effectively kind of the original robot, but it's a spiritual robot.
So you kind of get some peculiar substances together, and using holy words and rituals
and cleansings and precautions so that this doesn't go horribly awry, one composes a kind
of magical doll man, and the doll man can then work one's will in the world.
There's a lot of really deadly ideas here, and as anyone can probably see, it's very
clear that our fascination with the idea of the robot is the modern extension of that
originary urge.
But was the urge good?
What was the nature of the urge, and what was the outcome of its inaction?
Well, in nearly no case was it ever good.
But what's a little bit more bizarre is that we've kind of inverted the relationship.
Before I get to that, though, I want to mention one thing.
The reason it isn't good is because the people who will make the golem cannot examine their
own purposes from a perspective that is noble, humane, true, divine, pure, self-correcting.
And usually, the urge to form the golem is the result of confusion, at best, if not something
worse, such as vengeance or domination or profit.
So the thing that's ironic, though, is that we kind of do the opposite.
We form the golem of our own bodies and minds.
And then, instead of it serving us, it stands over us.
And we are very confused by the repercussions of this, no matter where in our culture we
may find our ideological or political homeland, even our religious homeland.
We will always be very confused by the difference between the bizarre, god-like fictions that
dominate our lives and for which we come together and which our work and suffering supports.
The difference between that and our humanity and our hearts, our dreams, our actual potentials,
the true nature of our humanity and nature and in intelligence.
We're getting something else.
And why, one must ask, would a creature be so compelled to do something like this, not
just a little bit, but for generations and generations, regardless of the catastrophic
harm and fear, terror and confusion that thus emerge?
And there's some really important questions that surround that one.
There's a very peculiar situation on earth, which is, as far as we know, there's precisely
one animal that's representationally intelligent like us, and that's us.
We are formal representational intelligences, so we use language and not just sing songy,
can mean many things language, we use formal denotative language, connotative language.
So that makes us really unusual, we're the only one around here like that, that's peculiar.
But there's an even more peculiar feature to our species, which is that for some reason
we are catastrophically xenophobic, we are terrified of living things.
And by we, I sort of mean as a collective, I know that each human being is different
and each culture is unique, and all of that, I get that, but when you just collect a bunch
of us and look at what that bunch does as a group, you'll find that we're terrified
of living things, we're terrified of each other, we're so terrified that in many cases
our first response is simply destroy it, please quickly with fire or poison or something,
get rid of the spider, I mean, so that's really strange because there's no other creature
like that on earth either, and I think these two things are related.
The origins of our relationships with language, representational intelligence and conceptual
knowledge have a lot to do with what we see as their repercussions many, you know, thousands
of generations later.
In some sense we are seeing a constant recapitulation of an original problem or confusion, perhaps
not entirely unlike the parable presented in the Garden of Eden in the Bible, where
our encounter with some force, some new way of seeing, damaged our relational senses,
our relational intelligence, our embodied organismal, you know, the animal of our intelligence,
and so we departed from that into an ever more sophisticated array of representations,
false purposes, and really fairly ridiculous reasons to organize community around, in other
words, dangerous reasons to come together under.
And so these reasons become the dominating forces that counterfeit our humanity and our
community, our potential, our intelligence, even our technological ability for nearly
all of it goes for purposes that are extremely dangerously misfounded, and in many cases
omnicidal, meaning these purposes will kill anything they encounter with very small exceptions.
This is another strange feature of our species, we are omnicidal.
We kill everything at random, with or without consideration, and many of our most common
and familiar appliances are an explicit representation of this fact.
It's unimaginable the ecological harm done by a single automobile.
No human culture is even paying attention to what the actual repercussions of one automotive
trip to the store and back might be now, circa 2015, in the present ecological moment.
We're not equipped to examine this.
So what we find is we establish extremely compelling technological traditions, and the
more established they become, the less available we are to examining them or their repercussions
or their effects on our own minds, our lives, our cultures.
Thus, the standing golems above us are not only in human and alien, they're alien to
all of life on earth, to the history of the relationship between our species and ecologies.
And that relationship is effectively the same as an embryo within a mother.
So effectively, we're pretending that we're outside the mother as a child, but in fact,
the living environment of earth comprises the developmental womb in which our species
is irrevocably ensconced, and we keep pretending that we're being born outside of it, thus
destroying it, and ourselves, very obviously.
Why do we make these fictional collectives?
Why do we come together for fictions?
Perhaps the answer lies in something that's missing.
Perhaps having been born into such situations, we fail to establish something more noble
and true together.
There's a simple way to give an example of this.
In the United States, there's a lot of heated discussion about whether one votes or not.
Those who vote have arguments that if you don't vote, you can't change anything, and
you have no right to even have a voice.
And the others have arguments about how voting doesn't work and supports very deadly ideas
and problems that we don't want to participate in.
But nowhere in the discussion is the idea that we should establish something better.
What we have are two passive spectators at a system they didn't establish and cannot
correct.
They don't expect to correct or establish anything.
It's either do you participate or do you not, when what should be obvious is that we need
to establish something like an intelligent democracy that is true to the principles of
our humanity and our potential and our ecologies and the history and future of life on Earth
and human beings, surrounded and within and emerging from that life on Earth, not from
robots or computers or machines.
And so now the golem has transformed in our time.
What used to be simple machines have become domineering paradigms that everywhere surround
and inform are every moment of life, surveil, record, our televisions, our computers, our
cell phones, the object that I'm recording this on.
The golem is now above and within, penetrating ever deeper into our failure to establish
something true and beautiful, alive and human, intelligible, noble, compellingly exciting
and authentic.
In the cabalistic tales, those who create the golems are often destroyed by them.
But I do, I think I recall at least one instance in which, having realized this was a terrible
idea, the golem was dissolved, returned back to its unformed state and the purposes that
animated it were released.
The table was cleared and other purposes could then arise, purposes that were more true,
more intelligent, perhaps even more divine.
We should recognize that we were not born to serve vast fictions and fighting them is
very dangerously confused because they are momentous and well established.
Standing around complaining about them or supporting them is similarly confused because
the task that lies before us is the wise and mutual establishment of true community, true
mutuality of a way to live within for each other, within for the history and future of
life and intelligence in our world.
And believe me when I say that I'm nearly certain that every single child I've ever
seen had the specific light of that goal and mission in their eyes, whether or not they
could yet express it.
I trust that light.
Let's rekindle it now.
