Hello, everybody. Welcome.
I'm out walking in a, I guess what would be called a suburban neighborhood.
Something like a subdivision. Not quite as explicit as that.
And although I'm surrounded with plants and insects, trees,
the majority of the situation is paved and extremely regularized and quite flat.
Physically flat.
Angular.
Squares within squares within squares. Some of them with wheels on them.
Rectangles everywhere.
Every little segment of the sidewalk is a square.
The roads are extended squares with some curves thrown in.
The cars are boxes. The houses are boxes.
And what I find both fascinating and awe-inspiring and terrifying,
I guess both was the wrong word for three things,
is the lifelessness of the space.
Where these humans live and sleep and do their things.
Where I am doing my things.
Strange though they may be at the moment.
One of the primary goals of dissociated forms of human representational cognition
has as its goal the eviction of ambiguity.
You want to know that the same thing will happen every time you do a thing.
Such as start your car or drive it.
It will always do the same thing all the time.
And most of what will be done are mechanical things.
Open the can.
Cut up and cook the dinner.
Do the laundry. Watch the television show.
So when the rudiments, when the foundations of the modes of formal representational cognition
that us moderns are infected with and familiar with.
When our abilities of this kind, the representational kind,
when they are captured by something resembling a kind of gravity in their shadow
and in the negative aspect of them.
Then we see what we see in our world.
The proliferation of devices and machines and mechanical frameworks,
representational frameworks, monetary frameworks, all of these things.
And underneath all of that, there's a number of imperatives,
but one of them is to evict ambiguity to get a predictable situation.
Unfortunately, it turns out that in humans if we evict ourselves from nature
or if we evict or obliterate nature, meaning the living places and all the living creatures and so on,
and plants and bacteria and viruses and everything.
If we eliminate that, if we create a vacuum there, it becomes naturally predictable.
What's unpredictable are relationships between living beings.
That's very unpredictable.
Though it can also be shaped intentionally in lots of ways, it still doesn't make it predictable.
It just requires a recognizable character and form and activity.
So it turns out that the more you kill a place, the more you kill off of it,
the more desolate you render it, the more predictable it becomes.
And some people would argue and say, yes, well, deserts are very desolate,
but they are also unpredictable to be in one as a human.
There's truth in that, but those are living places, so the nature is there.
And make no mistake, the nature is here with me as well right now.
I'm focusing on the segment or layer of the situation physically that I'm in the place I'm at,
where the humans have regularized the terrain for the sake of predictability.
And that regularization mostly means killing things, including each other and themselves
and the possibilities of liberty, intelligence, humanity.
But they're doing it in a very structured and demonstrative way, or failing.
My point was, the more you kill off of the terrain, the more predictable it becomes.
Totally dead terrain with no living things in it, very predictable.
It just stays dead.
It's within an environment, and as the environment changes, that affects the, if we make a box, say,
and we put nothing in there, and we sterilize it, and so on.
It's still part of the universe, right?
Those walls don't separate it from the universe the way the humans like to think.
It does.
I think if you're very careful with light and you close it off in a box, you can tell what it's doing.
You and the box and the light, you're all bound up together.
It must be this way.
And only a model that takes this into account will succeed here.
In any case.
So if you have some primitive humans, and they're trying to learn how to make predictions,
they're trying to form some of the faculties that we naturally acquire as we are unlanguaged,
we would acquire them to some degree as unenlanguaged animals, but they would be different.
But as we are unlanguaged and inculturated, we learn to predict various things.
The heat will burn my finger, for example, but with my finger in there for too long.
So if you have some ancient animals and they're developing predictive capacities with embryonic representational minds,
there's a strange problem, which is the more things they kill off around them,
the more predictable everything becomes, and then it begins to look like their predictions are really good.
Very powerful predictions.
Because there's so little going on in dead terrain, there's nothing happening there.
And so what's been evicted is ambiguity.
And weirdly, there's all kinds of games we play to do this in language and thought and concept and so on.
Belief.
Particularly in our relationships with identity itself, what are things and beings?
Our ontological reflection and experience and ideas and so on.
What are these things? Worlds and stars and light and time.
There's a lot of ambiguity in there, right?
So one aspect of our cognition or a small cohort of faculties within our cognitive sort of extended family of faculties,
there's a few that go after the same goal in consciousness and thought, in belief,
and in the stories we tell ourselves about what has happened, what things are, what they aren't, and so on.
And these faculties want very simplistic, pat, graspable answers.
And by flat, I mean one-dimensional, where all of the possible, meaningful,
conventionality of identity and relation, origin, and so on is evicted.
Partly because that's thus ambiguous.
In the representational layer where modern humans' minds are largely trapped,
or at least generally over the entire population, the vast subpopulations would be pretty much completely compromised by representational cognition,
or at least the ways that we implemented in our societies and such.
What if we could even just suspend that for a moment, just suspend the whole charade of we know what things are and do,
and let the natural ambiguity there in to our awareness and our consideration, our experience, our ideas.
Dreaming returns ambiguity to a less aggressive team of faculties that are at least gently inhibited, if not straight up.
It sort of depends on how we look at it whether we think the faculties are from the waking mind or not.
But in dreaming, flat models of identity held to be true in the mind are the opposite of dreaming.
Or they're an expression of the same faculties under extremely different originating conditions.
The context is radically different, so perhaps the same faculties function in one way in dreaming,
or in a vast array of ways in dreaming, and a vast array of ways in waking, and there's a little overlap.
Hi, bud.
Hi, yeah.
Hello.
Yes.
Hello.
There's a cat with me.
I know this old cat.
It's a very beautiful soul.
And we recognize each other.
Yeah, it's okay.
The big machine is very scary.
You know, being with the cat completely takes me out of my thoughts, my stories, my models, what I'm up to at the moment in the conversation.
My whole mind transformed.
Every, all the castles in the sky that I had built, they crashed down and dissolved.
I can reconstruct them to a degree.
But being with the cat just now was...
Suddenly there was dimensionality to my felt sense of being human that a moment ago was not there.
It was just flat sidewalks and street lights and lots of cars and houses, all of these things.
Cognitive representations become physical representations.
Ambiguity.
You know, these things are hard to talk about because if I say, for example, the humans are doing thus and such,
that generalization isn't true.
It's useful in some way if I'm skillful with it.
Otherwise, it actually is just delusional.
And this is the problem with representations.
They're truth values almost always circular, which means effectively they are not true.
More intelligently, we might say that the cities are untrue to nature as nature is without competing against its own roots
through humans with endless billions of objects being made and so on.
Cars being driven, emails being sent, photos being taken.
In a sense, it looks like the problem in our species that we keep inventing new forms of
is a method of defecting from memory, time and relation.
These include place in there too, memory, time, place and relation into artificially constructed frames of mind
and then physical behavior that follows that.
Our society is manufacturing cultures, war, prisons, political systems, religions and so on.
Why would we be so hungry for predictability that we would sacrifice everything?
For things we call conveniences that aren't.
They're almost like...
It's something that destroys dimensionality, actually, actively destroys and collapses the dimensionality of our natural minds.
Our humanity, our relations, our dreaming, our vision, our quests, the deepest things within us
are overwhelmed by the endless noise of representational cognition and all of its byproducts in humans.
Here comes another machine. It's a big one. Most of them around here are.
Other than the occasional intrusion of machines or the appearance of a cat, the place where I'm walking is completely static
and the only threat I have to worry about other than stumbling on a broken piece of cement or something, tree root,
is the possibility of someone driving up and harassing me. That's it.
There's nothing else happening. There's nothing going on at all. It's completely predictably dead.
Why would we want that? Well, one answer is that vigilance is expensive emotionally, cognitively, metabolically, relationally.
The faculties that we use to detect both threats and opportunities and also to detect when they can stop detecting,
if they can stop detecting, these faculties are expensive, very expensive and ancient.
They've been wildly distorted by being pushed into a representational context where now we're not free just to pay attention to actual threats.
Something far weirder has happened. We now have to pay attention to representations and representations of threats,
and possible threats, probable threats, and likely threats. There's a whole new layer of a mess for our vigilance faculties inside representational cognition.
The question of do words tell us what they mean? Are there books that are true? Is there a book that tells us what everything is?
Is there more than one? Why would they do that when that's impossible? Because most of what is is ambiguous.
So it will not be found in books or concepts or words, even the word ambiguous.
There are layers, right, to our human experience of identity. There's the surface layer of almost pure representation.
That's a tree underneath that. There's a vast space we could think of that goes toward ambiguity, sometimes just through collapsing into it, but sometimes very creatively.
Going toward ambiguity is how music is made, how dance happens, love making, wonder, awe.
These all have the necessary ingredients of incompleteness, ambiguity, and transcendentally beyond all ideas and categories.
So it's a layered situation in our minds.
And dreaming is certainly somewhere between very ambiguous and formation of consciousness, awareness, experiences, forms, appearances, and so on.
But it's not like the rather mechanical and dull thing that happens when we think about what is a thing. Where is a thing? Who is a thing? What is a place?
The moderns are very good at temporarily evicting ambiguity at unimaginable cost and costs that should never be paid.
Both in terms of cognition, the way that we play with thought, language, and ideas, most of us moderns, is so crude that almost any other way would be better.
It leads us into a terrain as flat in terms of identity and opportunity and relation as the one I'm walking in now.
I would love to be relating with people right now. That would be fabulous.
I'm walking past hundreds of houses filled with people, not relating with any of them.
And at best, if they notice me, their most likely derivation will be possible threat.
Why is a guy out walking around in the neighborhood late at night? This kind of thing.
There are signs around here that say all suspicious activities will be reported.
There we go again with the language and the strange idea that that, suppose that actually was true, that all suspicious activities will be reported.
Well, the reporting of such activities is itself suspicious.
Not to mention that you'd have to report every activity.
Every movement of every blade of grass and every fly and flower.
Because anything's suspicious if you don't know what's going on.
Or if the terrain's so flat that your capacity to form ideas other than suspicion is very, very small.
We also live in a variety of very terrifying situations as regards vigilance.
For most of us, most of the time, our vigilance faculties are cruelly warped and producing feedback in our representational thought,
which influences our metabolic, you know, the animal of us deeply.
So, yeah, it's a rough go for us moderns.
You know, before I began talking about this, I was thinking briefly about a feature of certain kinds of games, particularly electronic games.
The feature is called a loadout.
It's a character in some game that goes with teams and probably is fighting something and taking care of each other and things like this.
And each of the characters has different loadouts for different situations so that they can rapidly transform into a different version of themselves
with abilities that are more suited to whatever the task that they'll be doing in the game is.
And I was thinking that we're stuck with a really shitty loadout for our minds as moderns, or, you know, a bunch of off-the-shelf crappy loadouts
that mostly have the strange function that a loadout should never have of precluding you from getting any other loadout at all, right?
That's a really weird thing for a loadout to have.
And so our minds are formed from what we might think of as what?
In this model, anyway.
Our minds are formed in this model from a synergy of the effects of a small number of elements.
And if those elements are really good, they can make all kinds of different synergies.
But if they're particularly bad or impoverished or crippling, right?
In that case, we get into a situation where we can't swap out the elements.
We're stuck with elements that not only don't work well, but preclude us from replacing them.
And I think part of my hope is that we can discover ways of understanding how representational cognition works and doesn't,
and how we can together pull the elements that have so long trapped our people in epochs of tragedy and injustice and ignorance,
consumerism, war, ridiculous nonsense.
If we could just pull those elements and get some better ones in there, at least in our children, at least for them,
rather than just continually infecting them with the incredibly dangerous array of elements that we're familiar with,
our minds are made for forms of relation.
The humans have largely failed to imagine, but have sketched in films and stories, however poorly.
But we've got a loadout, myself included, that prohibits and precludes that and evicts us from it.
And regularizes identity, role, meaning, until there's not much of either of any of any of those things left at all.
It's like the skeletal remains of a role, the skeletal remains of meaning, the skeletal bone that was once an animal, right?
It's how most of the modern systems work.
It's a little different in different languages.
Some of the ancient languages, probably Chinese and Japanese and Arabic and Hebrew and all kinds of other examples,
those maintain some dreamlike dimensionality that leaves a much vaster space
in which living minds can grow and learn and discover and awaken.
But their cultures, like ours, have been infected with, I don't know, the thrisp army of the moderns.
We could call it Western civilization, but I think that's an almost useless generalization and not entirely true.
It's something more like technologies and the processes and imperatives that support them and generate them.
And when I talk about the humans in representation, I want to be as clear as I can.
It's almost a mode of anti-dreaming that depends on and identifies with the tokens it produces that point at people, situations, phenomena, so on.
And these tokens bring with them the necessity of maps and models, which should be toys of understanding things rather than seen as facts.
Fundamentally, no one knows why there are things or what a thing is or what a being is or any of these essential questions.
We have no answers for these. What we have is maps and models and tokens and artifacts that are the result of our departure from nature into representational cognition as animals.
It seems very likely to me that ancient peoples were at some phase in the development of our cognition very distrustful of plain spoken language like the kind we use.
Most forms depended on song for their root elements.
Song plus language, but language alone, very confusing.
And the idea of writing language, you can see how the representations kept becoming more and more artifacted over time. Music is lost.
We have just speaking now, and then comes writing where there's no sound at all, no music. Just words, just tokens.
We do have something crude that resembles loadouts. If I go to do a task, help someone with their computer or something, then I adopt a particular set of function elements in my thought and my role changes.
And the goal space is much bigger than fix the computer. It's enjoy each other's company, be human together, solve the problem, bring some light.
But you can see in what I've just described there's a map, and this is what representational cognition is good at. The problem is that those maps are mostly fictional.
They're just representational maps. They're not the phenomenon they're maps of. That's a completely different order of that which exists.
But we take the maps as true and real. If I ask 20 people if they know what a tree is and I point to one, probably all of them will say yes.
But no one knows these things. Even deeply profoundly insightful people will admit it's a great mystery there. It's beyond conception. Though they might also admit that they recognize that humans call that phenomenon a tree.
If we could lift our minds above the representational layer so that its systems and maps and functions became our playthings and learning tools, rather than dictating to us models of identity that are too flat for minds to entertain and survive.
And the same with language. We can lift ourselves above. Mines exist above the products of representational cognition, not beneath.
For many of us, much of the time, myself included, the vast momentum and the ubiquitous ever presence of all of the artifacts of the way the humans are using representational cognition is profoundly compelling.
It's like being dragged along a path by a gravity that you might subconsciously notice but rarely becomes conscious.
I've studied many of the problems that happen when our minds become confused with the representations they produce and are subject to and manipulate and so on.
There's all kinds of weird trouble there. A division between the true intelligence within us and the extremely narrow, demonstrative acts in the rep cog layer of human societies.
Yet every night when we dream, that whole thing becomes much more malleable and soft.
This is that thing, that is this thing, this is this person, that is that person, they did this, she did that, he wanted this.
All that stuff gets very blurry and in that blur there's space for life, in that ambiguity. It comes to life with meaning and relation and depth and richness.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
