Hello, everybody. Welcome.
Some of you who've been following me are aware that over about the past month and a half I've become interested
in a very peculiar personality
who we might reasonably call a madman.
I'm talking about Amon Hillman.
And my initial recording about him got more views than basically anything else I've made.
I'm not making videos about him to chase views.
I'm making videos about him because he's going to radically revise our ideas of historical situations
and lead to the establishment of democracy in Greece and Rome.
The concept of democracy is born in the milieus he has expertly studied
and which very, very few other people have any idea about.
The reason that we have so little knowledge and so little veracity to the knowledge we have
and this is why he's furious. He's pissed that lies have long held the stage
where the actual history of the development of what we think of as quote the West
has been hidden in what you could literally think of as rafts of seething bullshit.
Just straight up lying.
Lying about history, lying about origin, lying about what was going on and what it meant,
lying about Christianity, lying about Judaism, lying about Islam, lying.
Just massive swarming choruses of lying and that's what we believe and think
and completely misconstrue our own nature, the nature of history
and the origins of the societies that we tried and failed to establish in the image of a democratic Athens or Greece.
Now, I'm not extremely well educated about these matters and Hillman has been thoroughly blowing my mind.
Yes, I'm aware he's nuts. That kind of doesn't matter. I don't really care.
And in fact, the peculiar kind of insanity that afflicts Hillman is recognizable to me.
It's the kind that afflicts prophets. It's a manis thigh. It's an irracular madness.
And when he's talking, anyone who knows if there are even those who know,
what he means when he uses this phrase, Ionic.
What he means isn't an idea or a theory.
It's not even a book or a literature, though he obviously takes his inspiration directly from primary sources,
not secondary sources, not theory. The closest thing we have to the first speech on things.
But when he uses this word Ionic, he uses it to indicate an experience of death.
And this doesn't necessarily mean that you die.
He also uses it to mean the particular experiences that arise from the Eleusinian mystery rites
that he has become aware of through his scholarship in ancient Greek.
And I want to be really clear when Amen is reading ancient Greek.
He's not reading it as a scholar. He's not merely reading it as a magician either.
He's reading it as something we don't even have an idea about.
He's reading it as a person who will draw from the fossilized remains of the beings and souls
that are in that language the same way fossils are stratified in geological time.
He will resurrect those perspectives into his mind and become them.
Bring them to life, resurrect them as his own awareness, thought, concern, speaking, his rapsadi,
his ecstasies of seeing beyond himself.
And he will straight up tell you that you don't need the complex kaikion or the phariac,
though you could perhaps use them if we could resurrect those rites.
These are polypharmaceutical complex substances that are not mere pharmaceuticals
the way that we think of them. They come from the bodies of human beings.
They're partly comprised of substances produced in specialized situations in human bodies.
And we have this idea modernly that you take a drug, it's basically a powder, right?
And it changes something in your body so that illness can be influenced or amended or inhibited or evicted so forth.
But long ago it's very different. It's impossible to know how they conceived of illness and medicine,
but it certainly was not the way that we do.
Medicine was rebalancing a sort of a constellation of features in the body and the soul and the history and the future.
It was a rebalancing. This is what is meant by antidote, I think.
And look, I'm going to make plenty of mistakes because I'm still new to the strange linguistic medicine that Hillman is composing with his own soul and mind.
He has become like those beings that produce medicine in their bloodstream and in the secretions of their body,
but instead of producing it that way, I suspect he's using his mind, right?
He's using speech, he's using language to make that polypharmacon, that multi-drug,
that superior to any specific drug, that superposition from which all drugs must arise.
And he's not making drugs for fun. He's making drugs to heal the world.
He's making drugs to reverse and to fight and to transform.
A situation that he can see because of his historical awareness is verging on apocalypse.
So what he's trying to do is prepare a kind of a vehicle that can carry some people through the crisis, the cataclysm,
or the cascade of crises and cataclysms.
And he will tell you directly that the ancient Greek is sufficient to carry you beyond your human life
and to bring you into aonic life and then back to humanity.
Now, there's so many things to discuss here, but I want to lay out a few foundations.
This stuff comes from what he's referring to when he uses the word Pulaske in,
by which he means, I think, the originary cultures, the skivvian, probably young horsewomen who were capable of hunting men.
They were expert archers, they were lethal archers.
Their darts were poisoned and intoxicating.
They could paralyze the enemies by just touching them with something.
Now, I don't know.
I'm drawing my understanding from a broad array of hints that Hillman's given.
In a fairly large variety of podcasts, his uvra is gigantic if you actually look at it, it's huge.
But I've been listening recently to Snappy and Neal and Hillman and others on Snappy's drawing down the star's podcasts that are titled Occult Explorations.
And here there's a sort of grab bag, a really profound grab bag of amazing little gems that I'm going to try to collect into some essays over time.
I want to talk about the milieu from which Hillman is drawing and what some of the principles of that milieu are.
First is the primacy of the feminine, power of the virginal feminine.
And by virginal, we don't just mean the idea that we have in English, right?
Which means the hymen is intact.
It's very complicated.
They were actually talking about the drum skins as the hymen of a primordial female god such as Athena in a podcast today.
And the causing that hymen to vibrate, that barrier, the barrier literally between worlds when you think about it.
Between inside and outside, between before and after, between life and death, between waking and sleeping, between hunger and satiation, between eros and antipathy, this barrier.
Also they spoke of the skin of the nurse that protects you in the ionic world.
That skin is Aletheia's skin and it paralyzes enemies, freezes them, solid, turn into stone.
These are not merely concepts, nor are they merely symbols.
These are superior to concepts and symbols, right?
These are things from which the possibilities of concepts and symbols derive their potential existence, right?
They are primordial matters that the humans once understood.
So Amin is speaking of a place in a time where the Amazons and the witches, the feminine magi, female magi,
and the young girls who were trained in the arts of dance, polypharmacoi, murder, hunting, soldiery, right?
These women were indomitable and the cultures of men orbited them, depended on them, relied upon them, could not exist without them.
The women were revered, they struck terror into the hearts of men.
Men were not seen as superior but catastrophically inferior, absolutely dependent on the women,
which is probably why you see in our time this bizarre and otherwise inexplicable denigration.
This denigration of the feminine, right? Subjugation of the feminine.
That's where the power actually lives. That's where it comes from. That's the origin of the possibility of power.
Now, so we have this entirely different world in which specific young women are prepared for a role, a ritual role, a ceremonial role.
That is both psychopathic, right? They stand at the gateway to the divine, to origin, to knowledge, to gnosis, to an amnesis.
They are the gatekeepers of memory. They are the gatekeepers of possibility, the gatekeepers of power, the gatekeepers of healing, the gatekeepers of birth and death.
The oracles, the prophets, the messiahs. These women are luciferic.
And the whole concept of the Donbringer and Lucifer comes from these feminine star pairs.
Gosh, who are the twins? I can't remember now. It's important. Perhaps it'll come back to me. Donbringers, lightbringers, right?
So the original Lucifer was not a man, not masculine. I will find the right name from the ancient texts.
It might be Aletheia, or the word that leads to Eleusinian. I cannot remember.
They were the Don stars, which, by the way, are firmly implicated in the enlightenment of both Jesus and the Buddha.
The Donbringer, Venus, and or Jupiter in terms of what's in the sky, right?
All right, so there were these. The whole idea of messianism begins with females, not males. Heroes, females.
I mean, even in English, there is the Ammonipoetic idea that the hero is literally her oh, or she says oh, or oh, or she's having an orgasm, right?
It's her orgasm. The man who brings her to orgasm, who brings the earth to orgasm by the stimulation not of her sexual urge, of her urges for justice, for beauty, for truth,
for rebalancing, for the antidote to the origin of wrongdoing, and fundamentally the antidote to greed, selfishness, tyranny, lying.
The antidote to everything, our civilization, quote unquote, the antidote to everything our society is founded on.
The rebalancing that gives answer to eons, epochs of torture and torment and needless war, stupidity, horrification, horrorification of nature, right?
Lying. Sadism. A sadistic orientation toward life and women and motherhood and children and beauty and virtue, right? This must be answered.
And those who answer this, they cause her oh. They cause her orgasm. And that orgasm is both a cleansing, menses, and an amnesis, right?
It's a casting off of all that has become decrepit, right? Within the body, within the spirit, within the emotional sheaths, within the dreaming body.
All of this gets cast off. And often it's cast off by catastrophe.
Apocalypse. So, Omen sees a world where these women, various women, Medea, particularly, origin of medicine, makes medicine in her body.
A master of the use of venoms of insects, snakes, dusts, plants, dyes, substances.
And clearly, there are specific features of serums produced by the bodies.
In this case, according to specific Greek texts, the women learn to introduce the venoms of serpents into their bloodstreams.
They make scratches on their skin. They wrap bandages around those scratches that are infused with complex polypharmacopia, including venoms of snakes.
And they learned this changes their body in ways, that their body substances, vaginal secretions, breast secretions, sweat, earwax, spit, mucus, secretions of the anus.
All of these things become magically imbued with power, right?
And these women are masters of the use of these drugs. They are the original doctors and healers, sorcerers, witches.
They are power incarnate, and they are terrifying.
They have found locks of hair. Our archaeologists have found locks of hair infused with scopolamine and jetura, among other substances.
Purple dyes, right?
Omen talks about the burning purple.
And also the introduction of various drugs through and around the eyes, nose, and mouth, including clearly substances produced from the human anus, right, from the rectal area in humans.
And he specifically cites the use of serums from prepubescent male and female children.
This is perhaps the most controversial idea, because he's speaking of substances that have to do, or that are emergent from the glands and genitalia of children, of a certain age, right?
Of a certain range of ages.
And not by killing the children and extracting things from them, though that may have had a role somewhere in there.
Now, mostly it's serum produced from the breasts of prepubescent girls, the penises of prepubescent boys, perhaps the vaginas and anuses of these young people.
Particular substances, they, their bodies naturally produce that are utilized in theriac and caikyon.
And specifically the drugs that are administered in the mystery rites to produce death, or the transformation of the soul, where the soul is drawn beyond its ordinary human limitations,
into the ionic universe outside of time, where the chorus lives. The chorus out there is the model of democracy, right?
It's the voices of the many dead, the voices of the yet unborn in one voice. It's all voices as one voice, or all voices as a small, as a small group of voices.
Singing and amnesis, singing the truth, singing justice, singing healing, singing unforgetting, right?
Hillman describes various specializations of women, the Medusae who were warrior, priestess, huntresses. They hunted warriors, they hunted men.
Their dreads were filled with different intoxicants, as if their head had become a pharmacy. They were midwives, they were the most expert midwives, because they could modulate the humors of the body of the birth-giving mother.
They had sedatives, they had coagulants, they had anticoagulants, they had drugs that inhibited bleeding, they had paralytics, they had psychedelics.
But the psychedelics were not primarily for recreation. They were for visioneering in a very specific array of anciently sacred contexts that involved the concept of liberation from slavery.
These were liberating beings that could liberate you from the inhibitions of your everyday human masculinity or femininity very easily by administering drugs.
They guarded the temples.
These were the origins of beings like nemosony, the mayanads, the mad, prophetess, young women who slaughtered heroes.
The sirens, Hypatia, Hecate, Joan of Arc in her way, the women.
One thing Alman's got absolutely correct is the precedence of the feminine.
I mean, us moderns, we are catastrophically confused, and we think that physical prowess is power, or that physical prowess belongs to the masculine, wildly untrue.
Even though commonly the masculine musculature is profoundly overdeveloped compared to the musculature of women.
But anyone who's studied history knows that that apparent imbalance is deceptive because those male bodies are literally born from, they start out as organs in a female body.
They start out as women, women produce men.
Hylman isn't making this stuff up. It's not theory. He doesn't give a shit about ideas. He doesn't care about them at all.
He doesn't care about biblical scholarship or the academy. He is by his own admission a Ronan, a masterless samurai.
Let me tell you what he cares about. He cares about the ancient Greek sources and their capacity to carry as a vehicle the intelligences of the dead and to resurrect them before us.
To bring them to life, the ancient language can bring the intelligences of our ancestors and these branches of history can resurrect them in our own minds because they are in the language, like living fossils in the layered geological strata.
Of the mystery of actual history, the living mystery of history. He also knows something that I have long known that is very difficult.
You can tell this to modern humans, but they don't usually get it. They won't really understand you.
You can tell them that the minds of the ancients were nothing like ours.
They did not see the same things we see when we look at a tree or an animal or a plant or the sky or the stars. Their minds were not like ours.
They weren't merely pre-representational. They were capable of making representations in consciousness. They were capable of having concepts.
What they probably weren't capable of, one of the things that makes them unlike us is that they could not lose their participation into abstract reference with tokens like we do when we say the word tree.
And for them, spelling was fundamentally transcendental. It was entrancing. It was magical. It was powerful. It was new.
The idea of spelling is where we get this word spelled from. And again, you can say these things to moderns. They will not understand you. They will hear the words. They will not understand what you're saying.
They will not have the realization, oh, oh, you mean S-E-A. The ocean starts with a snake. It begins with a snake that cuts through the chaos, leading to the energetic emergence of firstness in the olive, in the alpha,
in the primordial. They won't get it. You have to read them the poems of the spelling. Because it's the same thing with S-E-E. It's the bipolar wave form.
The snake makes in the sand in the sky. The snake makes that same wave form in origin. Leviathan makes that wave form in origin. And thus the possibility of emergence arises.
And this leads to emotion, the movement of energy caused by seeing. S-E-E. This is spelling. It's not casting spells. You see? It's an amnoetic understanding coming to you in the language.
This is what Hillman's attempting to say and nobody can understand it. I mean, there's people around him who revere his enthusiasm, which is profound, right? He's actually enthusiastic.
And some people mistake this like, oh, he's on drugs. He's like doing meth. They're out of their fucking minds. They have no idea what they're looking at. These are like people who've seen the Wright Brothers plane, right?
And they think they know what airplanes are and are for because they saw that Wright Brothers sort of biplane gliding thing. These are people who've built those, right? They've built those and they think they're geniuses and magi because they built one of those.
And they see a UFO and they're like, that's not even a thing. What is that? It's just like someone on drugs. No. It's the opposite. They're on drugs. They're on the drugs of certainty of lies, right? They're certain about shit that isn't true.
They're absolutely certain about shit that isn't true. And they think that flies. They think that's what flight is, is to be certain about shit that cannot be true.
And Amen comes along. He's like, look, I don't know, but here's what's in language. Here's what's the ancients left us to point in a direction of the mystery of history that is alive with the minds and souls of the beings who brought it.
They wrought this history, this mysterious living strands of the spirit, the genius loci of places and times in history. And what Amen has done, which is insane, is he's become a stage upon which those forces resurrect their intelligences right before your eyes.
And no one can understand it. And so some people are freaking out and they think he's nuts. They think all kinds of things. Or they just adore him and they think he's very entertaining, which is, you know, true. He's nuts, true. He's entertaining.
Yes, he is. He's a maniac. Yep, he's a maniac. Right. But one of the things he's trying to say is that not only were the ancients, these women, warrior, priestess, pharmacologists, doctors, sages, magi, spirit travelers, right, these women could travel, they could OBE at will and they could lead other people to OBE.
To get out of the body right now, right, touch you, you're out of the body. That power, right, the gate keeping power between the world of the ordinary and the world of the non-ordinary, what we usually call or think we may think of as the supernatural.
They were the arbiters of that distinction. With the touch of their fingertip, you would go unconscious. They were power walking, right. You can imagine, like, the power of something absurd, say, the power of a nuclear weapons detonation, walking around in a 14-year-old young woman, archerous, mistress of snakes.
Mistress of Venoms and antidotes. That's the kind of thing he's talking about. He worships it. He's in love. He's madly in love. And he will tell you straight up, not only were they not afraid of psychosis, they used it.
They used the focused power of psychotic mania to achieve aonic liberation. And that is the origin of the possibility of democracy. Think about it.
Ah, I love it, he would say. Ah, beautiful, beautiful.
Just as I've said this, I find on the ground the dried body of a newt.
Yeah, the dried body of a newt. I find it. Magic. The sign of magic. Little worm. Almost a snake.
All right. And it wasn't just the snakes that had venoms. It was mollusks. It was mucus. Mycenae, literally named after the mushroom, that slime on the mushroom.
Right? They knew about all these matters. They understood the linkage between lubrication and psychedelia. Lubrication and orgasm. Lubrication and power. Lubris.
Lubrisia.
So many things to learn here. Such amazing mystery. And by that, I mean history. When Hillman says, history isn't, it's not a fucking story.
It's not a story, bro. It's a question. It's a question you bring to life. You bring the question to life. Like an angel in your soul. And you chase the light of that question.
Until the answers are resurrected in your own body. In the substance of you.
He might say, if he were bold enough. I mean, one of the great things about him is that he does hold back, but he's incredibly bold. He doesn't give a shit about anything that anyone's going to think.
And he also has an incredible disdain for commercial behavior. Anybody who's making money, writing books, blah, blah, blah, doesn't give a shit about those people.
And in fact, he will straight up tell you that that is what keeps the lying, the layers of abject bullshit history in place.
Is all these people who write books and have academic careers to protect and want to maintain their authority and their position. And he despises these people.
He loves to piss them off. He's like, nothing's better than pissing those people off. That's his favorite fucking pastime.
And it's because when he discovered, when he began to discover these features of ancient life, probably particularly in the works of Galen, which nearly nobody paid any attention to, and he wrote about them in his dissertation.
His advisor said, yeah, well, you got to take out all that stuff about drugs. Like, wait a minute, what? Why? Oh, well, because the Romans wouldn't have done that.
And you got to try to imagine his brain exploding in his head when he hears this. Absolutely just losing his shit.
Because he's just been reading exactly about what the ancients were specifically doing, fascinated by, motivated by, interested in.
The origins of the possibility of the university, the origins of the possibility of democracy came from the use of drugs.
And these people were saying, well, yeah, those, you know, the archaic virtue of the ancients couldn't have sustained contact with this kind of intoxicatory, revelatory, sexual, you know, provocative partying.
Meanwhile, he knows exactly the opposite is true. He knows it. He doesn't know it from thinking or supposition or theory. He knows it from having read thousands of pages of ancient Greek.
And you can say, well, he's just reading one guy and he's kind of transferring. Yeah, except there's 19 guys.
Yeah, sure, he reads a lot of Galen and knownness and stuff. Yes, yes. But, uh, Escalus and, you know, 15 other ancient fragments, all kinds of shit.
So the chances that he's confused and the scholars have it right, pretty much zero. Nobody's read what he's read.
And he's not the kind of guy, he does have an agenda, right? It's true. He has an agenda. He might claim he doesn't, but he does.
His agenda is to obliterate the lying bullshit of the Academy, the Bible scholars, religious scholars and so forth.
All of whom are attempting to preserve a lie as the central narrative of the history of religion and Western thought, philosophy and so forth.
All this stuff begins with the mystery religions, the mysteries, the Eleusinian mysteries and the right or the rights where the female psychopomp administers a polyintoxicant that effectively kills you.
And then before you actually physically die, she resurrects you with an antidote so that you return to life unafraid of death and knowing the secrets of being and origin and an amnesis.
And you become the living representative, the living inaction of those virtues here on earth.
The blindness of the statue of justice is what is represented here. Ionic clear sight, perfect Ionic clear sight.
Imagine that I once had the intuition that an angel is a being that never moves.
It never moves. And since it never moves, all movement is relative to it.
And since all movement is relative to it, all of movement is its body. All of movement is its mind. All of movement is its memory.
It causes all of movement by a form of multidimensional absolute stillness.
A stillness that becomes more absolute in more dimensions each moment. A burgeoning stillness, exploding, recursively self-generating stillnesses within the angel.
Now imagine that your mind is drawn up from your body into origin to the point of the cone of all being, dwelling in that point from which all being radiates, all intelligence radiates,
all transcendence radiates, all energy radiates, all birth and death radiates, all gendering radiates, all knowledge, all wisdom, all healing, all medicine.
The living library of infinite vastness, you become it. And the chorus of the dead and the unborn is all around you.
This is what the idea of the democracy comes from, is this chorus.
The voices of the many having been lifted above their ordinary human concerns of selfishness and greed and nonsense and power, political affiliation, all of religion, academia, all these things, right?
Lifted it all beyond that to represent virtue itself. What is virtue itself? What is that virtue? What is it? What is virtue?
So, the idea is to be freed of all human concern and entrapment so that first clear seeing ensues, which children have, because they are not yet encumbered.
Children often have many features of clear sight, what I'll call, you know, I'm coining a word here, this clear sight word.
So to mothers though, because mothers are seeing for their children and some fathers too, and some grandmothers and some grandfathers, they're seeing for the children, for the sake of the children.
When you see for the sake of the children, when you see for the sake of the mothers, the grandmothers, the unborn mothers, the future mothers, then you will see clearly, much clearer in any case.
So, Hillman is a very strange thing, and the people who are critical of him, they have no idea what he's up to. It's not even really worth listening to them.
If you want academic knowledge, if you want conceptual knowledge, then you can go ahead and listen to those people, because that's what their game is. That's what they're there for. They're there for that.
Hillman is not there for that. Hillman is there to act.
Yes, I see you.
Again, these people are going to have no idea what Hillman is or what he's up to, what he's doing, what his goals are, because they have nothing to do with the goals of scholarship or academia, except in the fact that like them, he studies.
They think, oh, he studies, we study, therefore we're supposed to be the same bird, he's supposed to act like we do. No? Wildly untrue.
Hillman would say, no, you've got this backwards. You are not supposed to act like you're acting. You guys are lying. You're preserving a broad system of a narratological bullshittery that has been dominating the academy and civilization and is about to be obliterated by justice.
That's what he thinks. And he may be right.
I mean, it's hard to imagine that he's not got that right. It's just a matter of like, well, how much time before the obliteration happens.
The reason Hillman is teaching ancient Greek is that he is become the Theriac. He's going to give as if his mind is Medea's breast, as if his speech is the milk from her tits, is the secretions of her culpel.
Boy, he is giving, and he says, I'm going to give you this. I'm going to give you this. This is what he means.
He is conveying the liquid intoxicants and antidotes with his speech. He is an ecstatic, mantic prophet.
He's not trying to tell you. He doesn't give a shit about his name or the future or any of that. He is a human being. He has an ego and stuff, right?
But what he's committed to is virtue. And he knows, he will also tell you that these priestesses, there was a necessity which was the purgation of the polis, the purgation of the choir.
They would cleanse the choir by yelling at it and accusing it and whipping it and beating it, right?
And the play that he was giving that got him fired from his academic position, typically stupidly, right?
He was trying to do, you know, he was sacrificed in a very similar way to how Socrates was sacrificed.
And for very similar purposes, thankfully they didn't actually murder him. They just murdered his academic career, which was a good thing.
Because if they hadn't, he might have become enchanted by it, right? And we wouldn't have the Omen Hillman that we have before us today.
And by the way, even when he was back there at the university, and this is really important because, you know, Omen's detractors.
And look, I think Dan McClellan is an amazing scholar. I love listening to him. I love hearing him tear down bullshit on the internet.
Ah, who's that other guy in the Dan's Friends who was on the Gnostic Informants podcast?
I can't recall his name. In any case, these guys,
they are athletic supporters of the Academy.
You know, what Hillman was doing, okay, here's the thing. Hillman, did Dan McClellan ever clean the toilets at his university?
Just, you know, ask him sometime. Were you willing to go in there and clean the toilets?
Was that other guy who likes to criticize Hillman, anyone who likes to criticize Hillman, did they go to the Academy? Did they go there and go janitorially clean up the bathrooms?
The thing that was least desirable to do, to work in the stink, in the mess that nobody wants to touch, because that's what Hillman was doing.
He wasn't just teaching ancient Greek to a fascinated and aroused student body.
He was cleaning the toilets himself at night. He was willing to do the things that nobody would do.
He believed in the possibility of education in a way that was maniacal and brilliant.
So those guys didn't clean the toilets. They just sat up at the podium, you know, prospering from the attention of the masses.
And in facting the masses with the well articulated narratives that the lying layers of historical narrative depend on for their survival, for their reproduction, for their contagion, for their sustenance,
like dead churches whose pillars are falsehoods.
You know, anyone who believes in virtue wants truth.
So what they're going to want to do is under, you know, if we've got a narrative about history or ancient peoples or the origins of religions,
or even language or technology, then we want what's, we want the best stuff we can get.
We don't, what we don't want is to go to fucking the mall and buy some off the shelf composite conglomerate bullshit that prevails not because it has veritas or gravitas.
Actually, it has gravitas not because it's veritable.
It has no veracity. It prevails because it mimics veracity skillfully enough to be hyper contagious and thus be preserved above all truth.
It's the difference between porn and the first kiss of romance.
This is the difference.
And weirdly, you know, I don't know, I can't speak for Amen.
But what he's saying is that historical, intellectual and philosophical, historical, intellectual, philosophical and religious pornography is detestable.
He hates it.
He wants to be a living knife that cuts through it.
And he is the avatar of those feminine intelligences.
They are alive in him.
When he was making the play Medea, he was teaching the actors how to purge the audience, right, using this alabaster.
But also he had this riding crop and the lead actress who was brilliant, he knew that she needed to know what exactly had been going on back in the day.
So he basically got down on stage and had her whip him.
Now, you can think anything you like about that.
You can think like he's perverted, right?
He's enacting his erotic fantasies with his students.
You could think, you know, strains of don't stand so close by the police, right?
And you might not be entirely wrong with those thoughts, but let me tell you what's actually going on because it isn't fucking that, right?
That's the puerile interpretation.
What's actually going on is magical.
He is partly invoking the ancients, bringing them back to life, resurrecting them.
When he puts that crop in the hand of the actress who will play Medea, he wants to know, he wants her to physically know what it was like to be Medea.
And he wants to be subjugated.
He's willing to serve that intelligence.
He trusts that intelligence.
When she strikes him with that crop, it's ringing a historical bell that rises up through the fucking epochs and lands in her heart and comes to life.
She will be transformed forever.
He will be transformed forever.
This is what he means by history and mystery, not bullshit narratives written 12,000 times and reproduced over and over again.
In the lying mouths of academicians who seek the acclaim and the funding of the features of those structures that preserve
blasphemy and call it holy.
Now he tells us, you can tell, one of the things you can easily see about Hillman is that he understands the origins of democracy and he believes in democracy.
He believes in educating the polis, right?
Because without an educated polis population, there's no chance of you having a democracy.
And what does education mean?
There's the voice of the polis, right there.
The chorus, you see?
The chorus.
What does education mean?
Well, it partly means having seen beyond all systems, all politics, all narratives, all stories, all greed, all structures that attract mundane human concern and action awareness.
He is the opposite of a thrisp, right?
He is the opposite of a dead process, Hillman, a dead process that captures whole cohorts of humans and then goes about enacting atrocity and claiming it to be virtuous.
Google, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, TikTok, all this shit, YouTube.
He's the opposite.
Yeah, I get that YouTube brings you the video that you're listening to right now.
But it's just because I couldn't reach you without YouTube.
How would you find me?
Like, maybe if I wrote a book or something, you could find me.
Maybe, maybe.
But yeah, he's like cutting through the fucking mauldem of the academia and the university, which is the absolute abomination of that is staggering.
That's the place where you're supposed to go to gain the capacity for an amnesis, for insight, for wonder, for awe, for participatory exaltation beyond everything you've been crammed into as a human being.
You are so much more than the, than the dried husk of the humanity you've been sold.
And almond wants to bring that lubricant, that hallucinogenic, intoxicating, exalting lubricant back into your spirit and revive you from the wrong kind of death, right?
You can see that human culture is the malignant opposite of the death-inducing intoxicants.
That the irracular priest women would introduce into your mouth and your eyes and your orifices and your bloodstream, right?
That communion which would reawaken you.
This is the opposite kind of a death, right?
Or we're given false intoxicants, counterfeit drugs that aren't real and rights that aren't real.
The march of politics, the march of monotheism, the march of the fucking academy.
The peer review itself isn't a bad idea in science, but the implementation of the journals as a money-making proposition.
Poisoned science, right?
Fake intoxicants, bullshit, lying.
The preservation of false gatekeepers between us and discovery and amnesis, recognition, remembering.
So almond is, you know, he's a fucking, he's a human hypodermic needle.
He's accepted he's divinely encompassed, right?
The muses sit around this man as if in an amphitheater casting lightning bolts into his heart, right?
And causing him spasmodically to emit the nectar that resurrects the muses in his listeners.
You know, this march we think, oh yeah, the muses, you know, what does that even mean?
Okay, well, you go to the museum, right?
What is that for you?
Don't you realize there's a living version of that?
There's a living version that's not about exhibits.
The museum is where the muses are gathered to adore, to enthuse, to catalyze, to inspire.
The most profound of the beauties of the arts and the sciences.
The true arts and sciences, music, poetry, oration, lovemaking, origin, and amnesis.
The muses are gathered around and they are dancing.
And their dance inspires the beings who listen to them.
The children and the young adults and the adults and the elderly people who make art
and who make art truly in their soul.
The best of them are never known by humans because their art is not consumed by humans.
It's consumed by angels.
The angels gather around their art in awe and say, ah, yes, this is worth it.
Finally, a being has done something so beautiful that it will live and become immortal,
not among the humans in the body of origin.
This is what Hillman is talking about.
You see, Hillman hasn't read about Ionic life.
Any scholar could read about Ionic life and have ideas.
That's not what's going on at all.
Hillman died.
He died, right?
He's seen the Ionic and I know because I have also seen it.
I know the muses are real because they gather around me when I make.
And I don't make for my sake, I make for theirs.
The museum is the living library of the sublime excellences in all of time and space.
And it is alive.
There are no dead exhibits.
There are no frames.
There are no signatures.
It is a gift.
It is the origin of inspiration to beings all throughout time space.
You know, this idea of the chorus.
I mean, it might be the most primordial idea you could possibly have.
Okay, look, it's not as if there's a list of primordial ideas and ones at the top.
It's a matter of your concern determines what's at the top of the list, right?
The way we think, this sort of one thing mind or what's the most ex, you know, what's the most ex?
Instead of what's the most excellent, which means exceptional,
not in the sense of being the best or the top or the highest in the sense of being beyond categorization,
the superposition, right?
Achieving superposition while still holding form.
Yeah, this is what the humans reach for in our arts, in our sports,
in our, we should be reaching forward in our political systems.
We've ab, abjectly failed there.
That whole thing's been captured.
Our societal systems.
And Hillman wants a resurrection of a retay of excellence in human social situa, milieu, right?
Millions.
Contexts.
He wants that.
He's starving for it because the muses want that.
The mothers want that.
The grandmothers want that.
Everybody wants that, right?
That's the thing everybody wants.
Every child is born in some way aching to reform the monumental malignant lies of the cultures that presently exist.
No culture was ever perfect.
But similarly, no culture that's ever existed before us had the absolute potential for 19 kinds of perfection per minute,
just being crucif, just ruinated by greed and commerce and power and the preservation of lies and so forth, right?
We're like swimming in, okay, socio-relationally.
We are like, our species has become like organisms that live in a sewage dump,
that radioactive and fucking commercial waste is globbed into, you know, a billion times per picosecond by every...
You know, when Zappa wrote that song that has the lyrics, it's the slime losing out of your TV set, right?
That's what he was talking about.
That ideological sewage, informational sewage that we like some kind of disgusting,
yet, you know, half-holy, anilid, some worm, we're like squirming around in this stuff.
You know, if only we were as good as worms and we could compost it into something beneficial to life,
but that's not what's happening.
What's happening is the opposite.
It's just being ground up and spit out in dead histories, dead futures, dead mothers, dead children.
It's just being ruined for the sake of fictions, lies, corporations, political systems that suck, literally suck, literally vampiric.
They eat children and spit out the dead remains and build their palaces of power on the graveyards of the forgotten and the enslaved.
And that just has to fucking stop, right?
Hillman hates that stuff.
He's not a pervert.
He wants a revision to the foundations of power, just like every child wants.
And you know, when we're children, we direct our urges for virtue and truth, Aletheia.
We direct them primarily at our parents and the school system, because those are the first authorities we encounter.
And it's not misguided, it's natural, but it's not our parents' fault.
Though they should dip themselves in the resurrecting virtue of an amnesis and dreaming and excellence
and wash clean their histories and narratives and thoughts and biases and opinions and perspectives and concepts and namings,
they should have that resurrection and the child knows, if not consciously, subconsciously, that they are the vehicle of that.
They have come fresh from origin to remind the adults to anemnoeticize them, to cleanse them of the lies and the lethal allegiances
that the adults have in them, like hooks that penetrate their skin.
You know, in the sun dances where the indigenous Americans, they put bone hooks through their bodies that link them to a central pillar, a pole.
That's that kind of cleansing that reminds them of origin, that's the purgation that Hillman is talking about as a necessity for the possibility of democracy.
You can't have democracy with an uneducated polis, you can't have democracy with an unpurged polis.
You have to have deep and profound education and purging, cleansing, not murder, not the kind of cleansing that we associate with,
I mean, I don't know what he would suggest, but he doesn't seem to me to be the kind of a prophet that's like,
yeah, let blood fill the gutters, let's purge ourselves of all of these seething, lying, politically greedy.
I'm remembering a phrase from a poet friend, but I can't quite recover it.
Yeah, Hillman, I don't think Hillman's suggesting any kind of, you know, genocidal cleansing, I don't think so.
I don't know his mind, maybe he realizes that in cataclysm, in the resurrections that the cataclysm brings,
there are naturally, you know, tyrants are destroyed.
He talks a lot about this and how the current situation lends itself to the historical resemblance and echo that established tyrants over Athens and Greece.
And before that, in other places, the Pulaskian situation, perhaps, and how these tyrants were eventually destroyed.
He does talk some about that, but I don't know what his mind is.
What I'm trying to say, however, is that the purgation is a part of the rite that he speaks of, this mystery rite whereby one is devastated by the wise gnosis,
the nectars of gnosis in the women, the oracles, priestesses, the magi, women that bring you to the edge of death, cause you there to hover and then resurrect you so that you are liberated,
and now you represent the chorus, the many voices, the one voice comprised of the many voices.
The thing that connects the voices is virtuous concern, virtuous historical memory, virtuous medicinal knowledge, virtuous intellect, virtuous poesis, virtuous rhapsody.
These are the things, these are the features of existence that are valuable and worth protecting and preserving. This is what Amen is concerned about.
People think that because he talks about things that they find disgusting or perverse or anathema, that he is suggesting that these things are virtuous.
That's not what's going on. In fact, quite the opposite.
Hillman is a clear-minded classicist who's looking at what the primary texts tell us about the priorities of the ancient life, where the language of Greek originated, the language that other historical languages emulate,
or pretend to be superior to, or prior, priority. See, that word priority, it doesn't mean above, it means before.
So for example, he mocks the people, perhaps somewhat confusedly, but at the same time in a valid way, he mocks the people that celebrate Hebrew, because he's like, look, talking about a language that had 8,000 distinct terms at the time some kind of an Old Testament was composed,
like in the Old Testament, in the Torah, there's 8,000 unique words. Greek has a couple of hundred thousand, and you can coin words in Greek. I'm not trying to pun with Koine Greek, or I don't know how to pronounce it because I've never heard it properly pronounced.
Koine Greek. He's saying, no, the Greek looks like it has priority to him. No, of course, he's a Greek scholar, so naturally he might say that, but he does have a point.
The Greek went around obliterating other languages and replacing them in a way that resembles the tragic capacity of English to destroy languages in our present time.
The chorus. Yeah, that might be the most important idea because what you don't want is a bunch of individuals seeing for themselves and their line and their children and their, you know, just them, right, the selfish seeing.
You want the seeing for all beings. You want the seeing outside of time. You want clear sight. You want the seeing for the sake of the virtues, for the sake of wisdom and truth, nobility and justice.
Not justice is punishment. Justice is antidote to malignancy. Justice is rebalancing. Justice is healing. Not justice is vengeance.
So, you know, Hillman's going to go on being wildly misunderstood and I'm not claiming that, you know, history is going to remember him. Who knows? Perhaps his voice will be completely lost.
I don't think Hillman himself cares about that. What he's concerned with is wonder and virtue and an amnesis like true remembering, resurrection, clear sight, and particularly the resurrection of the intelligences and the geniuses, the prodigies that lived in the ancient world in the women
and the children, the grandmothers of the Duzai, Medea, Hecate, Hypatia. He's a meta-feminist. You don't hear him singing the praises of men. He is constantly singing the praises of women.
He's in love with them. He adores them. He is their protector. He speaks for them. It's not Hillman up there speaking. The muses surround him and rack him with their whips and he, thus enthused, enlightens us.
It's beautiful. I love it. Beautiful, gorgeous.
Thank you for joining me. So glad to have this time together and to clarify why I am interested in Hillman's mania.
Much love to you and yours. May we pull the veils from our sleeping eyes and achieve the blindness that leads to virtue and wonder and amnesis and awe together, within for each other and the history and future of all beings.
Take a moment to like or share my video. Please comment. Ask a question. Say hello. I look forward to learning together again very soon. Bye-bye for now.
