So, let's talk about the G word.
Firstly, this whole idea is terribly confused.
We're not actually mostly talking about the G word, God, when we're talking about the
G word, so that most of the people who want to talk about the G word are talking about
something else, yet demand that they're not.
And most of the people who want to declare in a kind of absolute way that the G word
is nonsensical or just made up are also talking about something else.
So let's see if we can tease some of these threads apart and make some sense of them for a moment.
There's a couple of questions involved here, and if we identify the questions first, it will help.
The first question is this.
Could the universe itself be some kind of intelligence or meta-intelligence?
Could it be more than intelligence?
And since the universe turns out to be the origin of intelligence, like ours, this question
is important and meaningful, because if we say no, the universe is not like intelligence,
then it's pretty peculiar that intelligences like ours just appear down here.
And if we say no, the universe is not like intelligence or more than intelligence, then
we're kind of saying that the origin of intelligence is not intelligent.
So that's one of the questions.
Is the universe itself intelligent or more than intelligence?
And that's a very reasonable question for everyone, regardless of what you may think or believe.
It's just as an important question for scientists as it would be for religious people or people
who are unconcerned with whether there's a God or not, because they themselves have
an intelligence with which they're curious or thinking, we hope, about this question.
So then the second question that's important is, this is kind of a weird one, did an intelligence
create this universe or this world on purpose like something it made, as we might imagine
the way we make things, intentionally?
That's a much trickier question.
And then we have the question that's even far stranger that goes like this.
Are particular stories in particular books either true or the truth about these questions?
Now that third thing is essentially impossible.
Now that doesn't mean that it has no truth value or no relationship to these questions,
and it doesn't mean it has no true relationship with them.
It means that the way that most human beings relate with these text artifacts is not symptomatic
of damage rather than understanding.
So what we have are a lot of people objecting not necessarily to the idea that the universe
is either intelligent itself, for example, time space is like a kind of intelligence
or meta-intelligence, hopefully not too many people would necessarily feel forced to object
to that, but they definitely object to the incredibly silly sounding ideas and often
the incredibly strange actions of people who, shall we say, believe the bookstories of God,
the people who have skybooks.
Now this tradition of skybooks goes way back.
The difference is that it used to be the actual living sky rather than things written in books.
When it was actually the living sky, there was still a lot of confusion late in the game
early or early on.
I think our people understood and lived with and as the skybook in relation with the earth,
there were no stories like the ones we have, even though there may have been the ancient
predecessors of what we call stories.
So if we separate the questions, is the universe, is time space itself intelligent?
Was there a creator who intentionally created the universe or this world, mankind specifically?
I'm not sure we would have this kind of question if we didn't have these strange books and
all of the people who are relatively hypnotized.
Not so much by the books but by specific interpretations of the books and weird frameworks
that have arisen around these interpretations.
So it's even weirder than just that the people are fascinated by the books.
What happens is something fairly bizarre, a vast complex array of representational frameworks
arise around the books and basically just breed over human social time.
So the whole thing is very confused.
It's confused to the degree that some people seem to think that the often poorly understood
idea of evolution explicitly either denies the possibility of a divine intelligence or
refutes it or scientifically that since the idea that the universe is intelligent is not
necessary for our understandings of evolution, we needn't consider it and may as well dismiss
it, there's no evidence of it.
That's kind of a peculiar position for a simple reason.
If we just imagine time space as a kind of water like in a cup, then we can see that
the features of time space, molecular chemistries, radiation, electromagnetic radiation and such,
gravity, all of the forces where we're at, they move all these dusts around and then
these dusts kind of condense and they condense into stars and into worlds and one of the
things they obviously condense into is living minds like ours.
Now it's possible to say that that whole process just turns out to be an incredible
unlikely accident, but it doesn't seem very likely that living worlds produce, shall we
say, billions of organic expressions of something that's unlike their origin.
In other words, unlike time space.
It seems more likely, by far and rather obvious and intuitive, that stars are an expression
of the nature of time space.
No one has any problem understanding that, no one has any problem understanding that
black holes are an obvious expression of the nature of time space.
It doesn't require religion, it doesn't particularly require science.
We know those objects are there, they're obviously an expression of the context in
which they are in.
So it seems pretty obvious that organisms and living minds and perhaps something we
may have to discover what we really mean by this, but souls are absolutely an expression
of time space, right?
Not a bizarre one-off accident, inexplicable somehow whoops that just fell together that
way.
That does not seem very intuitively like anything that's familiar to us, except perhaps a specific
theory, a theory with great authority.
And of course, the theory of evolution, there's, as I understand it, somewhat naively, there
are two theories, but one of them is not a theory, it's simply a fact, right?
It's simply a fact that organisms evolve.
This has nothing to do with believing anything, it's demonstrable, just by observation testing.
So anyone who wants to say evolution isn't true is saying something like, approximately,
you know, H2O isn't true, it's not actually H2O, it's water.
It doesn't have any real molecular construct, a guy who wrote this book we have made it,
or something like this.
So obviously that doesn't work.
When we keep the questions separate, it's pretty difficult not to think that everything
around us, time, space, all of the gaps between organisms, time itself, it's pretty hard
to think it's not exactly intelligent, but more than intelligence.
The origin from which intelligence is continuously derived and transformed and developed.
Organisms like all of the different intelligences of Earth, rather than being intelligent,
being representationally intelligent, like our species is, the other organisms of Earth
simply are intelligence, that's why they talk to you, at least not in language.
In fact, were they to be representational, they wouldn't be able to be the kinds of organisms
they are, and our minds would never have developed.
Since our minds are in some way, how should we put it, an expression of the incredible
diversity of biorelational intelligence in which they emerged.
The minds of our species were like a candle that was lit by the incredible diversity of
the intelligence in which our ancestors were immersed.
Unfortunately, for machines and stories about God and such, we're burning all of that down,
thinking that we've already received the gift, now that we have it, it doesn't matter if
the origin stays alive, or what happens to it, or who gets to own it, or what.
Unfortunately, that's exactly the opposite of the truth, our species doesn't possess
anything at all, our intelligence is always an expression of the health and biodiversity
of the contexts in which we are immersed, which we are born, which we develop.
So anything we do there immediately affects every human mind on earth.
The relationship is not one of connection, it's one of unity.
Our minds are in unity with the biorelational envelope that they are an immediate expression
of.
Interestingly, that starts to look something like what we imagine a God to be.
In other words, the consistently intimate field of biorelation on earth, one position
up from individuals and mankind's way of thinking about it, pretty obviously comprises
something not like a brain or mind, but like a superposition over identity, like a form
of dreaming that is consistently the source of minds and bodies on that world, something
not unlike a God.
If we were to then imagine that living worlds are connected, and though we scientifically
suppose this to be impossible, our species is very young in terms of its understanding
of science, and we imagine we know much more than we've yet come to and be able to see,
science itself is still extremely young.
If the worlds were merely to be connected, then we would see phenomenon here, be able
to access them directly, in which we might pursue such conjectures to put it mildly.
In my own experience, I find something like this to be true, but there's kind of a simpler
way to understand an aspect of what I want to get at, which is just that in our own
bodies we're comprised of something like 400 trillion cells, 90% of them are bacteria,
not human, yet we have minds, in fact we're having this experience right now of communicating
about these organisms, which we can't necessarily see at all, except with special equipment.
So is it these organisms communicating?
If it isn't, that's rather strange, what is it?
If it is these organisms, I'm one organism, we think of me as distinct, especially in
language, then it's really bizarre that there's something that looks almost like a god to
my body, that is to my body something like what our common imaginations of God would be to humans.
So it's kind of intuitive that there's something like this, and it's not reasonable to just dismiss
it, even though it's quite reasonable to dismiss stories about it, and descriptions and things.
It's similarly reasonable to dismiss many stories and descriptions of the sun,
for kind of a simpler reason, if there weren't the sun there wouldn't be any stories or descriptions.
So why would one imagine that the origin of minds locally, from which stories and descriptions emerge,
could be contained in a story or description? Or worse yet, more startlingly,
that for example the sun would write a book, wouldn't that be strange?
That would be so strange that it would be as if you went to a bookstore and you found a book
written by language. Do you see how incredibly unlikely that is? So it isn't of course that
those who've had experiences of what we associate with the divine might not write books, of course,
but to have anyone saying something very, very threatening and actually dangerous that this
book was written by God, that kind of thing gets, essentially it sets up something like a viral bomb
for human intelligence. That idea by itself is so incredibly dangerous that anyone who knew anything
about human minds and language and representation would go in completely the opposite direction from
that unless they were trying to make a weapon. And that's precisely what these books primarily
do and are and are for in our cultures, regardless of the claims.
On the other side, I should mention that my own experience with these books is very deep and rich
and profound. They're among the most dangerous artifacts and texts ever produced by mankind,
with the possible exception of, I don't know, various kinds of weapons, plans and things like this.
But it is not that they are without value, nor is it that they have no
relationship to the subjects that they portent. They do, but the relationship is much more delicate
and peculiar than any of us are likely to commonly imagine, especially in any kind of
organized religious sense, or so it is in my experience. So it's not very, we should keep the
questions separate. Is time-space intelligent? Is there a reason to believe it can't be?
So that's one question, because if it is, then there's something probably even more interesting
than our ideas about God going on. And then is there a creator? Is there a God that created the
world? That's a weirder question. We can explore that. I don't have a great interest in that idea.
And yet, I have some in it. Again, the idea is not entirely without merit, but the way we
ordinarily pursue it is pretty dangerous, and I think starts out from a very, very confused position.
And then, you know, what about books about God? That's a much more dangerous question that we
have to be very cautious and sophisticated about. But we can essentially say, not too much trouble at
all, that most of the organized religions are doing approximately the opposite of anything
that any prophet worth trusting would be very interested in. There are exceptions.
And also, I think the idea that some given prophet is the prophet is also very dangerous.
For as we know, wise men and women and children occur in every culture on earth throughout all of
time. If we were to imagine that there's simply one or the one, again, I think we're going to
damage the basis of what it means to think or have human intelligence. No one says, for example,
Einstein was the prophet. That would be rather silly. Yet, in his domain,
Einstein supported and aided by many other brilliant minds, certainly was a prophet.
Let us notice that the results of his activity were not, as Hushley put it,
beneficent or beautiful, as we might have hoped, because the cultures in which they landed
had very dangerous purposes for such ideas. So, I hope you've enjoyed exploring this question
a bit with me. Perhaps it's cleared up a few things. I guess the one thing I'll mention before
I go is that I think most of the people who identify as atheists are actually really against
the ideas promulgated by people who equate the existence of God with particularly ridiculous
interpretations of stories in books. That is a very worthy objection, but it should not be
confused with the refutation of the possibility that, A, the universe is intelligent, somewhat like
our own bodies, everything we see in nature. And they may also have some concern that I think is
reasonable about the idea that a creator intentionally created Earth. And then finally,
we've heard lots of weird stories lately about, actually most of these stories are just gross
misrepresentations in the press. There are very, very few people who believe or would say that the
universe is anything like a hologram. Let us presume that those people are confused because
holograms are things that humans make. They are artifacts. And origin, the origin, it's like
saying the sun is a hologram. I mean, just kind of ridiculous. What is sometimes referred to
as a principle that is hologram-like, but much different from holograms in all of nature and in
physics. Now, what's interesting here is that the experience that ordinary humans have that's
most like a self-generating hologram is dreaming. So if someone were to say to me,
do you think the universe is a hologram being projected by, I don't know, a mechanical process,
for example? Or do you think the universe is the result of some kind of non-ordinary dreaming
phenomenon? The dreaming phenomenon is the much more obvious explanation. Notice that we didn't
arrive on a planet covered with machines. And when we look in the sky or even out in space,
we don't find any machines. There's none of them here. So it's just not very likely that
reality is like machines. Your brain is nothing like a machine. It doesn't do computation. That's
something that happens in adding machines or mathematical calculations. To say that we are
like machines is to change the meaning of biology in a way that is dangerously confused.
So yeah, I don't think the universe is anything like, quote, a hologram or certainly not a computer
simulation. But it does appear to share many important qualities with something that is not
merely dreaming, but the origin of this mode of being. And this is a far more interesting and
provocative, far more accessible and intuitively like our own experience than anything coming from
machines or science. The most astonishing thing to discover is that all of the authorities who are
proclaiming wild new futures and impossible realities and after lives and communicating
with the dead and psychism and the new age and all of this quantum mechanics. It's not that
science is an interesting science is certainly fascinating and worth paying attention to. A
lot of the public sort of confused celebration of misapprehensions of science I think is
sort of tragic and comedic at the same time. But what is more interesting is this, that our own
minds and bodies are directly our direct expressions of these phenomenon that are timeless, that are
beyond the entire range of human concepts, don't even fit inside the categories we've been
given and are directly accessible to us, especially if we will just for a moment set down
most of what we have learned and most of what tells us what to expect or look for and actually
encounter the unimaginable novelty of our position and nature as human beings is far more
interesting and exciting than all of religion, all of the things we've heard from gurus and
paradigms and all of the drug experience and all of these things. Far richer, far deeper,
far more ancient, more astonishing and far more strange. So let's together get a taste
of whatever's really going on and then we once we're engaged in that process we won't be so
busy arguing about books and authorities and declarations and opinions. Won't that be a relief?
