I'd like to talk today about some very confusing or common problems in how we think, how we're
trained to think, how our culture sort of inclines us to think and speak, and how these
traditions create inclination to various kinds of evaluative analyses that are disabling
and false.
So we have this idea that we can have something or not have something, and the idea is based
on separable objects that we can trade and money and this kind of thing.
And so often we will feel that we either have something that happened to us in the past,
we have this, or we may feel that we have lost something that we once had.
And what I want to focus on here is the difference between the idea that we have a mind and
an identity, or that we compose one.
So what we're kind of trained to think is that we have or don't have certain kinds of
things, certain kinds of abilities, certain histories, certain futures, certain opportunities.
And in fact, the identity status of stuff and the possession status of stuff is something
we mostly make up in language.
So it doesn't really exist.
And we often trouble ourselves with this.
I'll give you an example.
The other day I had a chore that I had to do.
See I knew what, what I had.
It was a chore.
And it involved having to travel back and forth between this location laboriously to,
to transport some goods.
And I knew I was going to have to do this.
I didn't have any help, so I was going to have to do it alone.
And I was a little bit grumpy about it as I was walking down the street.
And it suddenly occurred to me that I had categorized what I was doing as a chore.
In other words, I had a chore to do.
And at that moment, I remembered something that I've been learning lately, which is
that our relationship with categories is voluntary.
We are the authors of categories.
And so I decided that instead of having a chore, what I would have was an adventure.
And I would have extra time outside.
I would have extra exercise.
I would meet new people.
I would see the birds.
I had all these wonderful things that I was going to do, along with the chore.
And I just made those the category.
So that what I was having was an adventure rather than a chore.
And on the way to having this adventure and having it, you know,
a number of times in a row, I would accomplish my chore as a side task, right?
And that was a lot more fun.
And I was very surprised at the ease with which I could choose to compose a situation,
rather than to comply with the category that seems factual, right?
Fact seems to have this incredible authority, but it's far less authoritative
than we ordinarily pretend.
The reason fact seems to have authority is because everyone would agree, or we think,
you know, we suppose that most people would agree that I actually left my house
to do this thing, right?
The reason I'm leaving is to do this thing.
So that's what I'm doing.
Is it really?
Since, honestly, I'm doing 50 different things.
So is the chore, you know, category, is that definition the correct one?
No, it isn't.
It's kind of a lot of authority because if we got a crowd of strangers together
and had them watch me doing my thing and then ask them, what is he doing?
They would identify the function.
And so that's what they would say I was doing.
And that's what's supposed to be reasonable for me to think I am doing.
So what do we really have?
And by the way, notice that move when we include a bunch of people who aren't actually included
and don't even exist.
They're just abstract people.
Well, most people would think, could you ever get most people together
and actually ask them what they think?
Are we going to do that?
Or are we just talking about what we'd like to talk and think?
Imaginary people who don't really exist except in language are or would be thinking.
So this is a topic in cognitive activism, which has a lot to do with how we relate
with the representational faculties that make us the unusual animal that human beings are.
And particularly, how do we relate with language, knowledge, and culture?
What kinds of relationships do we form?
Can we correct them?
Do we develop new ones, this kind of thing?
And cognitive activism underlies all of the things we're interested in and all of the
problems that we face, even as individuals, as a species, as cultures, and as societies.
And it's funny how rare this discipline or art is.
So to return to the topic briefly, what I want you to understand is let's say that
I had a million dollars in the past and then I lost it.
This is a common way of thinking and it is, of course, reasonable.
You can go back and get the records and say, well, here's my bank records.
I had a million dollars.
Here's my record.
I don't have it now.
But there's a lot of different ways of thinking about history.
And one of the most interesting ones comes from quantum mechanics.
Since a perspective of history doesn't exist until it's recorded in the present, which
sort of means you're going to get the history that's the result of your analysis.
And that's going to be informed by why you are interested.
So we probably can't erase the fact that someone who once had a million dollars and
doesn't now is talking about an actual situation.
But there's a variety of interesting conceits that are useful to explore.
For example, one time in my life, it was totally by accident, I had a glass of wine, just one
glass.
Well, actually, I asked for a second that was bold, but it was beyond anything I'd ever
imagined a wine could be or anything that would go in my mouth.
And I was so overwhelmed with the incredible, astonishing ecstasy of having this wine in
my mouth, but not only all other wines, but most other experiences just didn't even seem
interesting.
I was thinking about ways to get more of this wine right away.
This is the nectar of heaven.
And it was a chateau of feet that someone who had invited me to their house had brought
to the dinner table.
Now I could sit around pining for that wine and think, once I had this wine, I had it.
But like a conversation or a meal, did you actually possess it?
Was it the thing you had, or were you participating in it?
So you were participating in this thing, this transition, this time, this space of time,
and the money piled up and then the money went away.
So you can imagine it like a meal.
You did have a meal, but you don't mourn that it's over.
So they're going like, oh no, I wish I was still just having that meal all the time now.
You could run a race and have the experience of running it actively, but only in the future
or the past can you have a race to run or have a run race.
And neither of those places are here, so both of them are just things you're thinking.
Now I know that sounds really surprising, but in fact, that's just a way of thinking.
Whatever the past might be, we can only discover by absent analysis, we're not in the past anymore.
So we're absent from that and we're doing a bunch of analysis, description, and stuff.
And that's not the past, that's our analysis and description.
We're doing that for a purpose.
We have a concern, a motive that's driving these analyses into counting games and things
like this.
And often these motives, while quote reasonable to our common thought and public talk and
media experience and all this, are completely irrational, have nothing to do with forming
an intelligent position, forming an inhabitable position, forming a position that we're excited
about, that is encouraging, that is inspiring, curious, playful, joyful, human, animalian,
you know, alive.
And if we go with the inclinations we're trained with by culture, what we're going to get is
a graveyard and it's going to stack up with ugly, terrifying losses and missed future
opportunities in comparison to other people who won the game and then this kind of thing,
which of course isn't a life or even a mind.
It's more like a constellation of symptoms, of the absence of living into creatively our
opportunities as both human beings and representational animals.
So what I want you to encourage, what I want to encourage you to do is to experiment with
the idea that you compose minds.
And one of the most surprising things about this when we look at it carefully is that
we compose minds, this is really surprising, in the hope of the observational attention
of others.
And we compose minds according to what we understand of the specific contexts we are
either involved in, actively, meaningfully, or absent from, and we feel deprived or we
feel put upon by them.
So we compose minds in the hope of mostly the positive observational attention of others,
if you don't believe me, what's Facebook about, what's Twitter about, what's social
media about.
It's about trying to get positive observational attention of others.
Those contexts are a little bit phony because they are display contexts for not actually
forming human relationships and shared goals and mutual contexts.
We're having an actor-slash-spectator experience, an avatar and then fans.
Of course, many of us are reaching more and more into becoming the presenter rather than
just the spectating consumer.
Hi, one of those people.
So since we can sense that we compose minds in the hope of the positive observational
attention of others, and we compose minds in accordance with what we understand to be
our relationship with context, whether it's active or passive, whether it's creative or
sort of helpless, and then these minds like species of animals, we just become them.
So it seems like we have a mind, and the mind just kind of does things to us, and we kind
of go along with it or don't.
This is especially useful to notice if we're having a lot of negative thoughts and such.
These often involve imagining other people thinking things about us or not thinking things
about us, attending us for reasons we don't want or not attending us for reasons we would
like to be attended.
Here you can see immediately just how compelling this is.
The cry of the child, mommy, mommy, look at me, look at me.
Here we see the fundamental spirit of something human, which is that we want to be and be
seen within for each other together.
We want to be seen by those that we look up to and who we love and who we love to play
with and become ourselves with.
We want their positive attention and encouragement.
We might want their correction too.
And then of course context is fundamental.
So if we don't, and because most of our contexts are highly compromised by all kinds of predatory
and mimetic phenomena, we really need to realize that we have to invent a context in which we
can be meaningfully human together.
We have to invent our context in ourselves in which we can meaningfully compose minds
that are amazing and vital, enjoyable.
And we can help each other in this process all the time just by recognizing whether we
talk about it formally like I'm doing now or simply practice the active composition of
something other than a courtroom-like, accounting-like, police-like tyranny.
Yes, I had a chore to do, but it depends on who you ask and what their concerns are and
how they orient those concerns into a question that becomes a set of assertions.
So before we begin to compose minds, we have concerns and these concerns become motives.
This is usually completely unconscious.
This is something we almost never see.
And then we'll start thinking, for example, well, that was really kind of my neighbor
to bring me those cookies the other day.
Or here I am paying taxes again when I'm not getting the benefits of having just to pay
that money.
And who are these people I'm paying to?
Why do they have such incredible power over my life?
Two different concerns, two different minds.
We become these minds and not noticing all of this usually.
So I'd like to invite you together and suggest that we begin the process of learning how
to compose minds rather than to comply with public projections of minds we think we're
supposed to have.
And especially when we think about things that may have happened in the past, things
that might happen in the future, let us compose a history that empowers and encourages us.
If we're going to be composing one from memories and ideas and confusion sometimes.
If we're going to be making a composition, let's compose something that's empowering
in the moment.
And if we're going to be predicting futures, even if we sense threats, let us compose minds
and collectives capable of creatively adventuring into those otherwise dire and non-negative
and non-negotiable, right, seeming fears.
It's April 1st.
I think it's the duck moon still.
Sawakitsum in Nitsupawasan, Blackfoot language.
This is a time of year when of course Easter comes and the birds, many of the birds particularly
with waterfowl, are building nests and laying eggs.
And they're not laying eggs of fictions.
They're very attentive to everything that's actually happening right here now.
And we can learn something deep from watching the attention and care which they form nests
and relations and live in their world.
They don't have a lot of room for what they had and lost or what they might get later.
They're right here, right now, in the place that they are in the context they're in a living context.
We are too.
We're buried in a lot of overlays.
But we can reach out together from those overlays and back into nature, back into the living stream of time,
remembering ourselves and each other and the possibilities of our excellence.
Thank you for joining me.
Goodbye for now.
