Hello, everybody, welcome.
Deep is a wonderful and rejuvenating blessing in our lives and dreaming too.
Although some practitioners of various disciplines might ask us to consider that dreaming is a sign of a problem.
Even that if we were truly awake when we were awake, then we'd be truly asleep when we were asleep, and no need for dreaming.
I remember talking to my old Tai Chi teacher, K. C. Mao.
He was very curious what his dreams were like, but he said he did not dream.
And yet, for most of us, many of us, we are surely incompletely awake when we are awake. I am.
Many common people, one might say metaphorically, that I am sleeping through my life.
Although while I am awake, I am still incompletely present, only partly here, and obeying the structure of my habits and inclinations and affinities and aversions,
not seeing the true face of my existence.
And that's okay. That's part of what it is to be human.
Some of us are born with gifts and vulnerabilities and weaknesses and such. Perhaps we all are. It seems like we all are.
But yet, when we think in generalities, the face of the moon is hidden by our first moves in thinking and habit and such.
I have been asleep for a long, long time, but I have experienced moments or even spans of time in my life when I was assisted in awakening while I am awake.
And in the most profound of those, I saw another universe, the one spoken of in myths and religions, and felt it so intimately, so profoundly, that it overwhelmed my sleep.
And to say I was astonished would be, saying far too little, for suddenly the divine world in all of its ecstatic beauty and intelligence was everywhere apparent to me.
And I still had my ego, my human aspect, my habits, affinities, aversions, but many of them dropped away and were replaced by something I would call insight.
What this word is like, the word kiss. We have the word and then we have kissing. Kissing is not the word.
So I'm reflecting tonight on these matters.
And I realized just before I began to make this recording that when I make these recordings, it's not precisely a ceremony in the sense of being a traditional ritual.
Yet there is some aspect of that that arises.
And part of why I make these videos is to bring myself into presence and come closer to awakening while yet I am awake.
The aspect of myself that rises to prominence when I make these recordings is sacred to me, though sometimes it's more intellectual than others.
But the intellect is beautiful when its motivations and origins in movement are trustworthy.
And of course what I mean by intellect here is an array of faculties, not one thing, but there I go being intellectual and concerned about the failings of language, one of my most common concerns, habits.
The air is cool and soft, the moon is bright and huge. All these old trees that I must have passed a thousand times in my younger life are alive.
I'm sorry. Didn't mean to startle you.
You okay? Cool.
Sometimes when something is startling, it's startling because it is deep and our ordinary habits are interrupted and there's a moment of disjunction, adjustment.
So many of us, much of the time when we are awake, we are still sleeping.
We are dreaming the dream of the commonplace world.
And some people would use the word ordinary, not unjustly, but the truly ordinary, I think, is actually the world that is kept secret from us.
The divine world of origin and intimacy and ecstatic communion, wonder, awe, intelligence, insight, awareness.
We are trained to think of these things as supernatural.
But if we have that backwards, and I think we mostly do, like many of us, the commonplace world is anti-natural.
And so in its sense, not natural at all.
A man I was acquainted with named Stephen, he used to speak of what he called the natural man.
Of course Stephen was a man, but also the natural woman or the natural dog, the natural tree, the natural moon, the natural animal.
And it sounded like he was talking about something common, but he wasn't.
This use of the word natural for him meant something more like true and deep, uncluttered with confusion, habit and aversion.
Like a stream flowing through a mountain glade.
He was quite a brilliant man, though I knew very little of him. I only encountered him twice.
He was a close friend of another friend of mine.
He was very heady.
But in his way, brilliant.
None of that particularly matters.
What I wanted to speak about was sleep and awakening.
Of course we think once we wake up, we are awake.
And it's not unreasonable to think that.
This is what we're trained to think.
Certainly we are no longer sleeping.
But in the deeper sense of these words and ideas, and in the metaphoric sense,
most of us are still asleep much of the time.
And like dolphins or whales rising to get a breath of air and carry it into the depths,
we too occasionally rise beyond that sleep.
Something draws us into passionate intimacy or wonder or sometimes even terror.
And then for a time we throw off the casket of our ordinary waking
and approach the shining brilliance of our original nature, our true nature,
our intimate interbeing with all beings and places in all of time.
And sometimes brightness draws us to this awakening and sometimes dire circumstances
pull us out of sleep, the metaphoric sleep of our habits and histories, thoughts.
And something shining comes to life.
Now I am at the big street.
It's not very busy.
Thursday night, 11 p.m.,
strange to be back in this place where I spent some formative and dangerous years.
And to see how it is both changed and unchanged.
Some of the shops that once were here are still here, others are gone.
There used to be a ski shop here called Sundance in this little strip mall in Lincoln Village West.
That place is gone, but the ace hardware store is still there and the ironically named temperance liquors is still there.
All these trees have seen so much.
I wonder if they remembered me.
Of course I do not specifically remember each of them, but they are so old now.
30 years older, at least, more than that than when I last saw them.
40, 45 years older.
They are good beings and I trust them.
It must be a very vulnerable and profound thing to live all of one's life in a single spot on earth.
Never moving from that spot and yet perhaps capable of forms of travel by virtue of their very stillness.
But we humans have largely failed to imagine let alone participate in.
Now I'm coming to the store that is my goal, so I will pause here for a bit and take up my explorations in a moment.
It's funny, I just walked past mechanical anachronism.
Many young folks probably wouldn't even really recognize very well.
A pay phone.
Of course the receiver was long gone, so it's a useless device.
Who knows how long it sat there, broken.
But in my 20s and early 30s, I had a device made by a friend.
What is his name?
His first name was David.
He used to make dream machines and was quite an unusual and adventurous being.
He made me a little box with a speaker in it.
It was a hacking tool and it would allow one to play tones into a pay phone
that would fund a call to anywhere.
At least in theory.
It worked quite well.
I didn't use it as a whole bunch but I loved having the freedom of being able to make a call from any corner
because long ago pay phones were pretty ubiquitous, you could find them everywhere.
But that was back before the days of cellular technologies and the internet.
Although the internet existed in a nascent form at that time,
like BBSs and dial-up modems.
It was a great toy but one day it stopped making the sounds.
And even though I replaced the battery, it seemed that the chip that he had programmed in the device
no longer held its content.
I may still have that thing somewhere.
A memento of another age.
If my talk this evening seems to meander, it's natural.
I merely wanted to reflect on the strangeness of waking up from sleep and finding ourselves in other forms of sleeping.
Long ago a brilliant and prescient man named Alvin Toffler wrote a book called Future Shock.
I read it when I was eight.
My parents had it on the bookshelf and I read much of what they bought which wasn't too many books.
He spoke of becoming waves of technological and societal upheaval and transformation that he foresaw.
And how eventually we would all, or most of us, succumb to a kind of intense and ambient shock
as our machines and technologies outpaced our capacity to understand or relate with them.
And so this man prepared me to understand or at least be aware of aspects of our common circumstance in modern cities, particularly in the west,
where we would fall into deeper and deeper forms of sleep perhaps in an attempt to escape the gaping maws of bizarre acceleration
and the reduction of experience into data, computation, screens, smartphones.
So when I was a kid there used to be a cartoon called Dick Tracy that me and my friends liked a lot and in the cartoon they had wristwatches
on which they could conduct video calls with each other and must be in immediate communication.
Seems a great thing, doesn't it? It did back then.
But what we use it for is mostly either trivial or terrible or both.
And it's partly because those devices have invaded our interiority and our privacy in ways that we would never allow if we were aware of the actual suffering
and loss and theft.
In the neighborhood I'm in there's a mix of the old street lights which have a friendly yellow glow and the new street lights which have a terrible whiteness.
An unholy glare.
The shadows those lights make are fundamentally wrong somehow.
But I'll not here dwell in the darkness of our modernity but rather in the promise of awakening together.
And the little practices that we might invent and enact together that might bring us forth from sleep into wonder and insight, intelligence and play.
And I assure you that if there's a heaven and if heaven has a desire, its desire resembles this.
Divine beings, the origin beings, our own souls, how poorly we understand this idea.
We think of our soul as some ephemeral attachment to our bodies when in fact it's the other way around.
Our bodies are a relatively ephemeral attachment to our souls.
Our souls are not one thing, they are a constellation beyond time space of profound and ecstatic beauty in a place where there are no things.
No objects in a place where separation is provisional at best and intimacy reigns supreme.
It's nighttime and there's darkness in some parts of the streets and the darkness hides the identity of objects, my eyes only partly detect.
So the faculty of pareidolia, that faculty that precedes concrete vision and involves imagination is awake.
Tell whether the construction sign might be an animal.
I cannot be sure what the thing I'm looking at is, even though it's near physically.
And that's a beautiful relief in a way.
Though it's a little frightening because our concerns about threats and such inform our pareidolic derivations.
Though I am mostly asleep while awake, I remember awakening.
With great reverence and hope, I remember the time in my life when an angel was with me always.
And I understood the love beyond anything I'd ever imagined.
And experienced and embodied it.
And was flooded with insight and intelligence and impossible senses.
But not impossible in the sense that they were mere hallucinations.
They were easily validated.
But that time is far past now.
I am older and getting old.
And still trying to chase the beautiful phantasms that I remember.
But to live up to the gifts I was endowed with and tries to understand how and why such endowments were made.
So even in this very dark time, the memory of brightness is with me.
And sometimes an accident happens and I'm able to live up to those incredible potentials of beauty and wonder.
I remember them.
The sky in the world are reflections of something transcendental.
Our ordinary human layer of experience almost explicitly occludes these matters.
And it does so by representing them.
All of the things the humans make and their behaviors and actions are like peculiar tokenizations of divine features of the divine world, the origin world, our souls.
But most of us have so long forgotten these things that we no longer recognize them.
And even when we were small, the representations were so strange and alien to our experience of where we dwelt before.
But even then we did not see them with a mind that would understand,
Ah, these wheels are representations.
These shapes and houses and forms are reflections of something transcendental and more than merely alive.
What is it that is more than merely alive?
Well, the sun is more than merely alive.
The universe is more than merely alive.
Life occurs as a consequence of the presence of the sun and the earth and the moon,
the time space itself, the entire history and future of all beings and places.
We think of being alive as the highest state with the same delusory confusion that we think of humans as being the intelligent creature on earth.
My goodness, how wrong that is.
The potential is there.
We are an animal that has the capacity to interact directly with the origin world and the divine beings, as they might be called.
But few of us will have such experience and those of us who do will appear confusingly to our fellow humans mostly.
And some of us who do or think we have are actually delusional.
This is of course what the common people will think or see.
Ah, this person is just in the grip of a delusion.
There is no such thing as divine beings.
There is just the physical mechanics of reality, the quote-unquote laws of nature.
A hilarious idea that nature is a courtroom and that its principles are laws.
A bizarre, impossible thing.
Well, I have arrived back at my home.
And for now, I will wish you awakening and wonder, beauty in play, joy, understanding, companionship, communion.
Until we meet again.
Bye-bye for now. Thank you for joining me.
