Hello everybody. Welcome. It's been a little while since I've made a video, but I'm always
looking and dreaming and chasing the old questions. I can't help myself, though I have to admit
it's better with others of like mind. It's better when we chase things together and then
we celebrate our successes and we mourn our losses together and we encourage one another
and inspire one another. I think there are maybe two or three foundations of my own inspiration.
One of them is reverence and adoration and love, and particularly when I'm in love and
enchanted with a woman, then my creativity just blossoms and kind of skyrockets. It's
been a long time since something like that occurred in my life. The last time there was
any truly significant instance of this was in a relationship with a woman who I actually
never met. Oh wow, the moon is closely approaching fullness a few more days perhaps. Funny that those
two things should go together because I think of that woman as the moon a lot. But then I'm
inclined to think of women as lunar and men as solar in a general sense, though each specific
person and even particular people in certain circumstances all these matters coalesce and
change and transform each other. So one of the foundations of my inspiration is love and
reverence. Reverence is a feeling that comes easy to me. Not the same as love. Hard to describe the
particular difference, but there's some kind of profound humility in reverence for me.
And also the sense that what I have reverence for is truly and authentically noble through and
through. I guess one of the other catalysts is curiosity and there are different flavors of this
just as there are different flavors of reverence or love. Many different flavors. Our language is
deceptive in that it doesn't present a nuanced layered topology of identity or meaning. It tends to
give it a kind of a monochrome. It's one thing. I know what a tree is. When one could spend an
entire lifetime trying to understand what trees are and be very, very good at it and get no more
than a millionth of the way home and still make huge progress. But the idea that because we know the
word we know what the thing is is absurd. It's a magical spell cast by the waking mind's egoic
need to pretend that knowledge originates with it. And not just the waking mind, but the
representational aspect of the waking mind. And I was having a conversation with someone last night
and I'll come back to the catalysts. Curiosity is one of them, but there are different forms.
I was in a conversation last night where someone was talking about something I'll refer to as
immediate knowing. Knowing without judging or thinking. And this gets wrapped up with words
like intuition or even in some circles, Clairsentience, which is too much word, too much
language. Though there might be such a thing. I think in fact there probably is, though much of
what gets labeled that is probably something else. In any case, I equipped that I think most of our
experience of knowledge and understanding and awareness, it happens nonverbally. And then
post facto, after the fact of the nonverbal emergence of awareness, understanding, interpretation,
evaluation, then this aspect of consciousness comes forward with language and models and proceeds
to take credit for all of that stuff. It couldn't do if the universe depended on it, trying it on
the universe depended on it doing it even one time. So there's this weird thing that happens in
consciousness where a sort of conceptual linguistic prosthesis of our minds is desperate to encompass
all aspects of sensing and knowing. And we see this reflected in certain philosophers like Daniel
Stennett and scientists and some ways of knowing that believe or that promote the idea that the
universe and organisms and minds and all these things are merely mechanical. They're just mechanical
accidents. There's no upper universe of meaning or origin or communion or unity or anything like
that. And then they steal language from religion and they steal ideas from religion and reify them
in psychomechanistic terms. And these are the nights, the sort of empty suits of armor riding
robot horses pretending to be bringing us the truth and the noble perspective that frees us from
some bizarre kind of superstition that would otherwise dominate and destroy our intelligence.
And it's certainly true that some forms of bizarre superstition have dominated and destroyed human
intelligence. There's no doubt about that. But that doesn't mean we get to dismiss the entire
99% of the universe that remains completely unknown to human beings with a fell swoop of a sword from
some guy who thinks that minds are just sort of like the exhaust behavior of having physical brains
or something like this. Or that the universe is fundamentally computational, right, just
nonsensically ridiculous ideas. Humans have long had a problem and it continues to this day and
every generation of humans for at least a few thousand years has had this problem where we tend
to model nature and the universe and relationships and organisms in the likeness of the machines we
have ourselves invented as derivations of the properties of organismal activity and relation
and metabolism and so on. So all of this is really comedically immature, philosophically,
in my view. And when I say philosophically, I don't mean in light of human philosophy. I mean
in light of the adoration of something resembling wisdom. That's what I mean.
So curiosity. You know, I have many different forms. I too have the prosthesis of conceptual and
linguistic ideation. And that aspect of my mind has egoic properties and factors, factions,
organs that want to acquire validation and celebration and benefits for their work and so on.
So I don't say these things because I feel I've escaped them.
It's very, very difficult to do that. But to remain aware of them while pursuing
knowledge and understanding and awareness about some of the most astonishing features of existence,
light, time, living worlds, stars, minds, dreams, love,
the nearly unspeakable world of origin, that our religions are the remnants of our ancestors,
distant ancestors, understandings of and relationships with.
You know, it's funny, I'd love to show the moon that I see, but if I turn the camera toward it,
what you'll see is not the moon that I see.
You see, you see this little dot right here?
That thing is gigantic, in my view, and extremely bright and crisp and clear.
And our conceptual minds are a lot like this camera, right?
They don't show the moon at all.
It's almost like,
it's like if I took a bad Xerox of a negative,
and then I tried to pretend that the Xerox was the actual thing.
This happened to me, actually. A dentist took a pano of my jaws
it's a specific type of X-ray, but then instead of looking at the negative produced by the X-ray,
which was absolutely available to him physically at that time,
he had his nurse take a blurry Xerox of the X-ray.
And he then proceeded to diagnose one of my teeth with a very serious,
almost certainly fatal to the tooth problem that terrified me for months.
I was trying to figure out how am I going to fix this? How can this possibly be fixed?
Then I went to another dentist.
Actually, I'm going to support this dentist by mentioning her business name.
So here in San Francisco, she runs a shop called Toothology,
and she is one of the best dentists I've ever seen in my life.
She is really good. If you're around San Francisco and you need dental work, go to her.
She is fabulous. Might have a little trouble getting an appointment, so make one soon.
Anyway, she took a shot of the same tooth and it was fine.
There's nothing wrong with the tooth at all, for sure, not maybe.
And so this is kind of what happens with conceptual cognition.
We get a skewed or biased, blurry version, and it's blurred in a specific way
that mirrors our purposes in not looking more clearly at whatever we're examining or
trying to understand. The coronavirus and the vaccines and the public response and the social,
the responses of governments to the virus, all of these things are subject to similar problems.
Because there are political interests and commercial and monetary interests,
we're not really doing very good science. Some science is getting done,
and of course, what we means is open to interpretation. I'm not really sure there is a
central we the way that the language implies, and we use this language all the time,
or at least we are subject to it being used if we're not using it ourselves,
and I'm using it right now when I say we or we're.
So I'm often at pains to disclose some of the pitfalls of our common experiences
of representational cognition, the conceptual mind, particularly English in the way that we
are scripted to use it. The language itself is not terrible, but it's really bad when we
combine it with the cultural tropes that lead us to collapse meaning and identity into nonsensically
flat single variable deliverables. That stuff is mind-wrecking.
So catalysts for my questing. I also think this is kind of a nameless foundation
that comes before curiosity or love. It's an urgent imperative of the soul
that follows us into human birth, but for most of us burns out fairly early in our lives,
though for some of us it continues until our death. And maybe for everyone it does,
it's just differently accessible to different people in different situations, different times
and places in their lives. I think our birth as humans is the result of a long
collection of purposive behavior prior to our being born as humans.
There are urgent necessities that seem to underlie our incarnation to me.
And without trying to be religious about it or claiming to know because I certainly don't
know these things yet, or at least I don't know them logically. I know them with my intuition.
So my point is that I think our human birth is the result of many other situations,
possibly many other incarnations, or even a kind of a stranger idea which is that
there are a constellation of urgent needs and hopes and dreams in the human cognizium.
The slaves want freedom. The kind people want an end to war and hatred and poverty
and catastrophic ecological devastation. And so those urgent imperatives might draw a soul together
in their image and cast it in the form of a human. This is also, in fact, I don't think it's one or
the other. I think it's both and more. So there are some astonishing things that I think are the
precursors to our emergence as human beings with human minds and souls and bodies. But I think
we also have non-human souls and non-human minds and perhaps a non-human existence that our humanity
is like a living extension of, something like this.
And then of course I also have sort of parasyntific or rationalist concerns. Certainly I would like
to disabuse myself of delusions. And yet there's a problem there because there are aspects of our
humanity that are that are invisible to us unless we choose to participate in them. A good example
is love. I am certain there are people who have never felt love. There are certainly people who
feel they have never been loved. But I also believe there are people who have never themselves felt
love for another being. And if they felt, if they felt caring feelings, this doesn't mean they felt
love. And I know a few people like this. It's just not clear they feel love. Or if they do,
its expression is very different from my own. And the reason that I say this is that
in our human desire, in our intellectual desire to disabuse ourselves of delusions,
we run a terrifying risk. The risk, and if we don't have that goal, we also run another risk.
So if we magicalize everything, then we don't merely run the risk of delusion, we nearly
guarantee that we will live in it. But similarly, if we're unwilling to imagine a world in which
something like magic is real, then we run the risk of having so narrow a perspective
that much of the nature of the mysterious and beautiful reality in which we participate,
and from which our minds emerge, becomes hidden to us. So it's a very strange sword with many
different edges. Someone I was speaking to last night was making rather wild claims that seemed
to me delusional about, you know, until you believe it, you will not see it. Well,
that's not entirely untrue. And there are positions that I hold that are important to me
in which I believe unlikely things. There's the old quote from Alice in Wonderland, something about,
you know, having believed three impossible things before breakfast or something like this.
But there's also a kind of naive, cult-like, religious-like,
vulnerability to the wrapping paper of metaphysics that I find extremely dangerous and troubling,
confusing, damaging, harmful. So one has to have a balanced, if we remain in the realm of maps,
concepts, formalizations, ideas, language, if we're going to talk about these things,
a great sobriety is required along with the ability to truly experiment and to leave our
armor at home and go naked to the phenomenon and inquire of the whole breadth of its possibilities.
All right. Personally, intimately, profoundly, we need both things. We need sobriety and
an almost entirely naked openness. And we need different forms of curiosity, not merely the
rational form, to make progress or the rational forms. It seems to me. So these are some of the
things that underlie my chasing questions. And I miss having a good group to chase them with.
I really do. However, as I'm about to wrap this video up, I'd like to ask my viewers,
whoever you may be, to take a moment and log in to YouTube and leave two to five of the most
important questions in the comments section. And in a coming video, if you will do this,
and there are more than three comments of this type, then I will pursue them
in a future video. I won't answer them, but we'll explore them together. Yeah.
Yeah. So thank you for joining me. I hope that the coming of the very cold weather and the holidays
is treating you with great kindness, generosity, warmth, and magic.
Here's the tiny moon that the camera cannot see. Oh my god. That is nothing like what I can see with
my eyes. It doesn't even resemble it. But there she is, Luna. Thank you for joining me.
