Hey everybody.
It's funny how I often begin making a video and I'm honestly just out really trying to
get some exercise. Be out of the box. But before making a video, I often have a, at
least a pro forma agenda. I have some things I want to talk about. And I'm
experiencing a conflict because beginning something important, sensitivity to what's
actually going on might be the most important thing. And so if I begin with an agenda and
I follow it, I might miss another opportunity near at hand. I might even discover unexpectedly
that the agenda was a ladder. I thought it wasn't good enough. It was supposed to get
me near a terrain in a fuzzy way that I could then traverse intelligently with awareness
sensitivity. But if I just follow the ladder, if I don't get off the ladder at the top of my
agenda, meaning if I don't get off the ladder once it's carried me to the landscape and enter
the landscape heartfully, reverently, humbly, then I'm likely to become pretty pointy. I'm going
to have some point that I want to deliver. And I'm not going to be in the moment. I'm not going to be
with the essence of what I truly hope to find or become able to say. And right now, as I'm speaking,
it's I'm on the I'm on the balancing beam between what's going on right here right now and my agenda.
Many of us don't have the luxury that I am currently enjoying. And that number drops to nearly none
once we start moving our mouths. And usually, before our mouths begin to move, our minds are
complexly anatomizing, right, turning into little organs and connecting and bringing what we will
say into potential. And not it seems that a relatively small number of us, if us is everyone, all
the humans have the luxury of even ever becoming aware of what I'm speaking with you about now.
They don't ever escape the gravity of the constant cycling of thought.
And once they begin speaking, particularly if they're speaking about
something important or deeply felt, an ironic thing occurs, which is
the boat begins to ride the pilot. Rather than carrying the pilot to new opportunity and awareness
and insight, something resembling understanding, creativity, the pilot becomes the slave of his boat.
And had I merely been following my agenda and not trying still to walk on that borderline
to step into the between consciously, reverently of the before of my thoughts and intentions and
agenda and speech, just before that somewhere to walk, to try, to assay, to attempt,
there was a little moment there where I started to tip over into knowledge.
And I'm really struggling in case it isn't obvious, this isn't a balanced walk.
It would be far easier to balance if I stopped moving my mouth.
And in fact, the moment I do that, my body feels very different.
I'm going to attempt the opposite of irony,
which means rather than having my agenda double down on itself and dominate me and the conversation.
I'm going to attempt to do something really daring.
I'm going to attempt to stay in that between even while I have an agenda
and let both aspects of my consciousness play together. Allow that one, those aspects that
are ordinarily silenced by the overarching machinations of the waking mind and the waking
world and traffic and noise and responsibility and role.
I'm going to be willing to struggle
and to lose my balance toward being too didactic and to fall over a little bit into dreaming and
we'll let these two dance. Because if I didn't, I'd depart myself in a manner of speaking.
And that boat's real heavy when it's directing the pilot from atop her back, this back, their back.
And, you know, I think I use that weight ordinarily, right? I feel that burden,
I feel that tension, and I use it to energize my erasions, yeah? I get some play out of being
ridden by my boat. But something's missing when that's the order of the day.
It's like the crust without the pie or something, right? The crust is really structured.
And we all, probably those of us who like crust of any kind, it's structurally, it's crunchy,
right? It's flaky, it's got all these ways of interacting with our minds and our
mouths and our stomachs. The pie is just really messy. It doesn't, you can cut, it seems like you
should be able to cut the crust and then the pie, you know, just the slice, just because that's not
what happens. And I'm not saying that the preverbal senses and embodied living animal of me is all
messy. It's not. Though we might remark on how shocking the transition is from the outside of
our bodies to the inside. The staggering difference, the crust of our skin hides organs like anciently
evolved animals that learned how to cooperate in a union otherwise unimaginable.
I think inside us could make a child's drawing of it.
There's a family of animals and they're all different and they keep each other alive together.
And you know, I don't think they discriminate much. I doubt they have a lot of biases and prejudices.
But I don't doubt something perhaps a bit more shocking, which is that
they are beings.
There are many beings inside me.
And as beings, they have some predecessor to or metalog of minds.
They might even have unique character in a way that we can recognize in animals.
Most easily those we are familiar with, but turns out that character extends to all of life,
every living thing.
And contrary to popular opinion and ideation and the peculiar admonitions of our categories
and the way we use language, which is a crazy making way.
All of the animals are one thing all the time, first and foremost.
Their capacity for individuation derives from communion.
That's what makes each one so special in the way we might say in English.
And it sounds illogical to say unity equals diversity.
Unless you start thinking carefully about the very questions that are floating on the cesspool of
modern popular and political commentary.
But I'm going to steer back from that edge for a moment.
Because over there the terrain is extremely pointy and everybody's being ridden by a boat.
And the bigger the boat they picked, the louder you hear them yell.
When I say all beings acquire their diversity from unity,
I'm not demanding
anything religious or necessarily even properly metaphysical in the senses we ordinarily
conceive of this in.
The actual nature of nature
is something we have learned and been trained to see that only the superficial
part of and only the parts that correspond to the categories we were trained to
cut things into with the knife of the intellect and describe and name.
And those knives, the way they cut, the layers where they make cuts.
Those knife-like cognitive habits and capacities.
They are a very dangerous inheritance.
For while claiming to grant us new kinds and degrees of liberty,
that potential is extremely difficult to achieve
because these knives are dangerous and the humans have forgotten how dangerous they are.
And they trust the cuts they make with their knives.
Knives they were given by parents and peers and culture and language and idiom
and association and connotation,
sentence structure, semantics, syntax, all these unique features of the strange disease our people
have called language.
The humans have long, modern humans, many of them, have long believed that animals don't have minds.
If you could imagine an island of men who know there are women but have never,
none, not one of them have seen them, which would be weird since between you and me,
men come from women. But since we're just being hypothetical, it's an island of men that have
never seen women, asking those men about women is essentially, well it's kind of a big part of
it. Asking those men about women, it would be like asking ordinary people about animals,
of course they'll admit that their pets have minds. Most of them, that's not too far a stretch.
But do they think the sparrows have minds? Do they think the butterflies have minds?
Do they think the organs in their bodies have minds? Would they even be capable of considering
such a thing? Because if they were to do so, it would change what they thought about every other
thing. And the reason is that what has minds is the kind of question that has profound entailments
on how you are in the world. If everything has minds, it's a very different world from
only those broken monkeys who make bizarre face noises and have manufactured shoes have minds.
Broken monkeys.
I stole that phrase from a poet, Jeff Conan, in case Jeff by some bizarre quirk of fate happens to
see this video. But I always loved when he made a little book called Broken Monkeys and it was a
single poem and it was really good and beautiful. So what I mean is
we might even be wrong with a whole have minds thing. We suppose, for example,
that minds are local and produce all their own groceries.
It's a complex question and we don't get to do experiments on humans.
Get to? That was weird language. We shouldn't want to do experiments on humans and yet
our culture turns out to be this experimental
sort of
this bubbling soup of psychosocial experiments.
And
so we can't tell whether
and what sort of mind-like phenomenon in a human that was never enculturated by other humans
would be, though we've encountered a few, you know, wild children and such. We don't know,
I think we don't know their stories very well. They're not necessarily reliable
examples, but it looks like
we transmit something not that might be usefully imagined,
even if this isn't its entire identity, we transmit something like a disease to our children
and it's the disease of making a mind crust.
And it takes a while to set in and that's why children's minds are fluid and
dreamy and playful and messy in general, though every child is unique and some child,
some children, you know, are less creative and playful than others. They might be very emotional
or right, but most children, no, I'm not going to do that. This is me trying to stay on the
balancing beam. Most children events these qualities because the crust mind hasn't formed yet
and usually what happens to most adult humans as they proceed through the phases of life
is that the crust mind crystallizes more and more of their potential to
return
to something ecstatically beautiful,
undifferentiated, pre-verbal awareness.
And it's a great tragedy how few of us will have the opportunity to experience this,
but we can learn if we so desire, particularly if we're passionate about it.
And it doesn't solve the problem of the crust mind for me.
You can see I'm still kind of pointy, right? I'm making points and such. I'm coherent.
I'm not just singing rhapsodic poetry at you yet,
but just to go back to that point for a moment where
I talked about humans and thinking about animals and minds and many humans would believe that
animals have minds, but they probably wouldn't like the idea that plants have something,
you know, either the precursor or an analogue or a metalogue. I know for certain that insects
have something analogous to personality, so that I'm sorry, it just implies
it implies mind-likeness for me. And one of the things that I was getting at back then,
there's a couple that are important to me, I'll try and stay with the good one,
is that we don't know what it would be like to be stranded in a field with no other minds.
Since we'd already developed one, we would probably continue mind-like behavior for a time,
but it's not clear to what degree our minds are local and to what degree distributed.
And it's very, it's fundamentally important, pun intended, to begin to understand
or at least very deeply question the idea that I possess my mind or that animals have
minds or things have minds, like a possession. That's the wrong metaphor, and there's so many
of these wrong metaphors in our language that we're constantly deceived by them.
There are lots of different interesting ways to wonder about minds, but you don't get anything
like them in a vacuum of other minds. If you deprive the child of language-speaking parents,
they will not make face noises like I'm making now, and they may be unlikely to acquire that
capacity even if they are later in their teens or the young adulthood placed with people who speak,
apparently. There might be exceptions, there probably are.
The problem for all of us, because we all face it uniquely, is how to make the crust work
beautifully, prodigiously, with genius and skill and effectiveness and efficiency.
And since it's pretty crusty and kind of hardened, right, and it has these flanges,
edges, and stuff on it in the way that, you know, I'm imagining it, it's not flexible.
So it takes time for insight and learning and dreaming, imagining, exploring to percolate
up and actually, you know, change that crust on the surface that we think of as ourselves and that
we think of as knowing what's going on, or at least we used to until a few months ago.
But everybody's still trying to do that, which I find both touching
and somewhat frustrating. And I'm also involved in it because I still have a crust on top and I,
like nearly everyone, have been trained to identify with that crust and think of that as me.
And if we look carefully, we'll see that we did not form large portions of that,
you know, tectonic plate on the ocean of our mind, right? We did not form large portions of it,
its shape, its surfaces, its underpinnings, its urgencies, its fears, its triumphs, all of these were,
you know, we outsourced a lot of that, right, to previous generations who built our language
and our cultures and things, yeah? And the crust was informed by our immersion in the
very,
in the articulating effluent of television and film and radio and books and people arguing and
politics and religion and ethnicity and gender and whatever you want.
So all these little articulating forces
usually become authoritative in articulating the shape of the crust and thus what it touches
and what it doesn't touch, what it does, what it can't do, so on and so forth.
I'd like to turn that crust into something resembling its more essential nature.
And the analogy I'd pick there is wings, but not just wings that let us fly in air, wings that let
us fly in dimensions they invent by flying there. Because that is the nature of our human potential.
And that is what we were born aching to be and do together, within for each other,
for the history and future of life on our world and beyond.
These mines we've trained to crawl were made to fly,
but they're weighed down with boats. I know my metaphors are getting mixed here, but
it's all crusty and as we get older it tends to crystallize and stuff unless we're really
lucky or attentive or curious or surrounded by others who can help us in some way to some degree
sort of de-scale our mines. And to learn about the anatomy,
to learn models of anatomies of a mind that can be helpful,
not just in our quest for insight, which is one I love,
but in our everyday experience and thought and relationships and concerns in our lives
that will have value because we will stop suffering and being constantly
blinded by the otherwise painful crust we've acquired from our life experience and
our culture and language and history.
Which isn't to say I'd like us to make it all go away, though that would be an interesting
experiment. And if someone said would you like me to wet make all of that go away and I thought
they could, well I wouldn't, I wouldn't sign up, don't sign up for that.
But I'd be really curious. And if they showed me someone who had undergone this process and I
liked what I saw, I might try to figure out how to do it myself.
And maybe I've been trying for a long time actually. And so I at least know that there's this balancing
beam between the pre-conscious,
the mind, and what the mind does and how that comes out in language or statements or arguments
you know assertions or declarations so on.
I know and I can follow the path back from the crust right down into the inner layers a bit.
And my ability to do that depends on a lot of things but I have the ability to do that.
And I would suggest it's a fairly common ability nearly all of us who have you know volitional
a volitional relationship with mind right to some degree we can learn to do this.
It's not my goal to extol that here or try to convince you. Rather I'm actually just trying to
not fall over into the face noises land too much.
We seem us humans an unimaginable anomaly if the face of the living world is our comparator.
And this is we can explain this various ways that's not going to help me.
I think we're participating I think our minds are evidence
and and this is more true when we sort of descale them right when we can or if we can just suspend
the primacy of the crust. I think our minds are
the the the expression
of relationships among maybe either many minds or possibly all minds.
And so one can think of the brain however you want but the mind has the capacity to act as
some kind of transceiver. Yeah it can transmit and it can receive.
And our models and our ideas don't generally accord with this fact.
However just the fact that I can speak this language and it reaches you is and that you
can understand it right is proof that minds are transceivers or at least the analogy is not entirely
off right. So one way to think about the some of the understructure of the mind not all of it
but some of it right because I'm arguing against the idea that we simply possess minds here.
One way to think about the some of the understructure is that it's shared
right it's in the between of beings it's in the between of human beings in the between of human
beings and all of the different beings that live in the natural world it's in the between of
my organs and my brain it's in the between of the cells in my body and my body it's in the
between of the history of organisms that I am the living moment of expression of in a way not
unlike how the flower of an orchid is a living expression of this this plant.
And there are many who have argued that minds are kind of this flower thing and I think there's
something to it I really do in the sense that there are bees
and pollens are exchanged yeah
but what I want to talk about you know what I've been
thinking of and pondering is just
I've often said that the first brain in our body might be ourselves
the second brain might be our gut because that's way older than brains there were guts
on earth and they were the organ of knowing long before there was anything like brains
six sevenths of the history of life on earth no brains just guts
so our gut might be kind of the first brain our immune system is another
fascinating entity that's mind-like or you know in the body and maybe our brain is like the third
the third brain right so there's all these sort of layers of brain-like or even meta brain-ish
right even they can be more than we don't know what all those cells are doing right they could be
doing something much more sophisticated in their context than what it appears to us
what we are inclined to think about our brains doing in modern times
so there are these layers right there's these other layers there's embodied layers
and some of those layers are way older than brains way older time at the scale of a single cell
must be very different from time at the scale of an animal and if an hour is equivalent to a week
and you have 30 trillion bacterial cells or something like this
then an hour is 30 trillion hours and our cells go back to the dawn of life on earth
and they live in a hyper structure that doesn't really care whether it's on the grass or part
of your body right they can just they can they can ride in every form of life on earth
in and on and do and in fact without them we wouldn't be animals there's there's this polarity
in us right there's the animal cells and the bacterial cells and the viruses and you know the
fungi apparently so those cells can be understood to form something like
a biorelational hyper system
so they're the they can they can be thought of as like the trans light velocities of
organismal sensing and intelligence
I was listening earlier today to an interview with John Carpenter
and he was talking about something very familiar to me though I hadn't heard his particular take on it
and what he was saying and I'm going to have to be really careful here
because I'm going to use slightly different language than him
he was saying
that that psi meaning extra what we think of as extrasensory perception
which also has the capacity to see it has the capacity the capacity to see into time in different
ways but there are a lot of different aspects of what we think of as extrasensory perception
what he was saying is that this is the first sense that this is the prehensional
like the before thinking sense and we use it all the time and it's a natural part of everything
which is something I've been saying for a long time one of my quips which is a bit tired but
um there isn't anything but
psychic phenomenon going on we just don't recognize that all of this congeals out of that
yet uh so we have it backwards we think psychic phenomenon is a super exotic thing
that's probably a fairy tale and was made up in old store no that's not what's going on
and neither is it true that the kind of um light worker drag wearing psychic people are all actually
psychics neither of those things are true uh but but something astonishing is going on and
it's it's more astonishing than all of our metaphysical ideas so much more that it would
obliterate if it should shine but the slightest light of its actual activity on our awareness
so he was saying in his language psi is the first sense
and he was saying you know our bodies respond to things before our minds think about them this
is a well-known fact um our bodies our nervous systems uh our our spidey sense right the force um
we feel when you know and this becomes very apparent if one starts to slow down the
the games on the crust right if you start to settle get those to settle down you eventually
are going to encounter something that closely resembles what i'm talking about and you'll
become aware that you have forms of awareness that have nothing to do with your consciousness
and come way before it and what consciousness mostly does is package up convenient little
explanations and and put your little birthday card on there and present those to you as
you know as if they are definitive authoritative it explains things it describes things long
after the fact right long before i've spoken these words something in me understood that isn't my mind
and that isn't these words it understood
the landscape i was seeking the inner landscape and the ideological landscape
and the essential life pulse
from which my desires emerge
so john carpenter
who's a therapist and a researcher interesting cat like his work
he poses the idea that sigh is the first sense and then there are various layers of
the unconscious mind subconscious the nervous system the um the unconscious the subconscious
mind and then conscious activity is kind of the the crown on the head you know on the
the really crusty golden crown on the head of of these things and you know generally goes around
taking credit for all their work and and shutting them down and doing other kingly imperatives
i'm not trying to be mean but let's face it the the minds we're stuck with while we're awake for
many of us anyway can be really cruel taskmasters
and they you know that's bad enough but if we had the opportunity to just
sort of do that descaling movement right that analogy that i'm making to take the crust off
and see with unfettered consciousness um all of the layers of unimaginable intelligence that are
actually precessing within us in a way like the sun goes through the sun the moon and the stars
come out all of these intelligences us within us are doing this all day long but we're so involved
with our minds that we don't get a taste of it and then if we do get a taste of it and we're
not relatively disciplined we're likely to start telling stories in regular human language about
this is psychic that that's you know this is supernatural so on and so forth
i imagine a people who were born with shoes on
will just make up a story for fun these people are born with shoes on and no one ever takes
them off and actually they've never even seen an unshewed person
and i guess this is not entirely unlike most of us right most of us haven't seen inside bodies
but um for these people a foot would be supernatural if they saw a foot
they'd be like really freaked out and scared and it might terrify them they might start killing
each other they could start religions it would be a catastrophe in this story right in the little
you know fable that i'm making and this is what's kind of going on with us we were born
our minds are made for things we don't we do not know exist
and if we want to point in that direction for some reason for a long time everyone
thought it was really spooky so they called it the supernatural but it's actually just the natural
and the weirdness of the natural the the the staggering complexity of the accessible intelligence
and heroic imperatives of the natural would obliterate our entire set of categories never
mind like you know metaphysical or concrete that would just be obliterated and gone those
categories are so crude that if that's what you're trapped with it's like having your legs tied
together and then going out through your life like that right um and i know because i've i've
been i've i've been there and i'm not entirely free of it even though i'm aware of these matters
i'm still in the prison with y'all
but i can imagine a day when we break out
and the distortions we inherited again become wings wings that can make new dimensions in which
to fly every time they fly together and this is what the children are seeking and they're
to be honest i remember and have talked to very small children they're extremely puzzled
about what's wrong with the adults they get it right away that oops something went wonky with daddy
in his head sack right oops mommy's living in a linguistic fantasy that has nothing to do with
what's going on little children they get this all the time because their minds are still learned
they're trying to fly right they're trying to get those wings going and the culture and the parents
keep chopping them off um and leading the children to believe that that's exactly what's supposed to
happen and rewarding them for you know the little rituals where amputation occurs and this has been
going on since time immemorial for our species for reasons that are so bizarre and crazy that
i'm not even gonna approach them here presuming that the knowledge that i have is even useful
so
nature is fundamentally fundamentally transcendent and this is the word that i like
i'm not committed i'm not married but i like this word nature is transcendent it's much more than
sentience sent and sentience sentience is a downstream result of effulgently hyper intelligent
processes in nature so sentience is a lower order result of processes of higher order processes
that are constantly in relation with minds and bodies and organisms yeah and by higher order i mean
not requisitely specifically physically embodied
intelligences that can exist without being tied to a single body as we know them
they may be the field effects of myriads of minds but i think the myriads of minds
are the dandelion seeds of those intelligences
and i'm not asking you to believe this right i'm not trying to convert you or anything
i'm merely putting my own sense and experience
um
making a sketch of it yeah in case it is useful
but the way that we ordinarily think you know we think of our minds as being very
effective and good and powerful and knowledgeable and so on and so forth
in the in the contexts where we need the kinds of minds we've been given by our ancestors
in commercial culture these minds work okay
kind of like a three-wheeled you know like a car missing a wheel
in in in those contexts for most of us unless we develop them very carefully or we are gifted or
we're very lucky or we have great mentors and you know few of us i think relatively few of us
have that opportunity and most of us did bring some implicit gift some special unique
abilities and proclivities to our human incarnation but again a lot of that gets
digested right by the culture and sort of turned into various kinds of crusts that don't do
the flying thing anymore
and we have these really weird problems with language like we have this word imagination
by the way i'm going to go back to carpenter for a minute there's all kind there's there's a
reasonable quantity of research it seems to me that demonstrates that
our minds are reacting after the fact of phenomenon
like thoughts are the evidence of invisible work done elsewhere
and done at a very sophisticated in a very sophisticated way at a high rate of speed
but vastly slower than our nervous system you can't you can't think your way out of evading
a suddenly intrusive threat if you hand that off to thought you die our nervous systems our
bodies they evolved to respond you know relatively instantaneously to hints even and some people
will say well that's all that you're really talking about is people using hints really well
no it's not i'm talking about research where people can predict not with their minds with their bodies
you can watch people's metabolism and they can tell when a threat image is going to be
is you know they can tell before right a threat image is going to be presented in a random
series of images their body responds before it has been decided that the image will be shown
by a random number processor which is either seeing into the future or right so the body
whether they're they're not necessarily consciously aware of that and they don't have to be
these things are taken care of i don't know whether to call like the really intelligent
tiny stuff high level or low level but we'll call it lower level because we'll think of smaller
is lower here um but they're taken care of by processes that aren't entirely automatic
they're not merely you know the nervous system they are um relationally sensitive yeah they're
relationally sensitive essential so
carpenter's thesis is that psi is really common and we use it all the time in ways we're completely
unaware of consciously and some people are really good at using it you know more directive
directly for specific results and stuff uh and then some people just have
the question i'm not trying to answer the question of is there telepathy or not but there is
i'm just trying to say i think we've got the mountain upside down we've we've we've stood
the mountain on its point and thought the point was the you know the whole mountain
or maybe it's the iceberg problem i mean whatever you like right but we've gotten things backwards
we think that one of the clumsiest and slowest and most complicated aspects of what humans do
is the powerful intelligent good one when in fact it's more like this weird combination of
uh well i have to be careful here
the purposes for which it is well suited
exist largely in a representational between context of human beings right you need it there
and you need it if you want to make complex devices and things you need it if you want to
have mathematics um so this overlay on consciousness that we call our mind
can form specialized crusts right like those of a musician or a poet or an author or
uh a doctor a surgeon a mechanic an engineer
a wanderer
they can form complex topologies
of highly developed expression
highly developed representational expression
for those of us who are lucky enough to have the luxury of becoming what we refer to as educated
and hopefully um a goodly portion of those get a diverse and well-rounded education
um you know an education rich in novelty and intelligence and creativity and insight
but that's relatively uncommon and you know
some few of us manage to preserve wing-like aspects of our minds
throughout the process of in-languaging and in-culturation
um and this is one of the reasons why artists are often sort of worshiped
is because they are the the emissaries from underneath the crust right they're
going to show you what's bubbling down there to some you know to some degree
yeah
musicians and you know performing artists and all these artists painters poets writers singers
actors
the really good ones
shake up the crust right they mess up they mess with that crust
and sort of cause you to go deeper into yourself and your own feelings and experience
um or they they catalyze that process they invite it
um
it's unfortunate that it's such a privilege
I mean I feel deeply humbled and honored that I have had the privilege to learn
some of these things and to try to see into the essence of
you know birth and life and death and light and time and living beings and
intelligence language knowledge
of course the crusts are kind of form of knowledge right they're kind of
they're little like those sheaves of fungi that you see
growing out from a stump of a dead tree
that's knowledge it's a way of visualizing knowledge although I
I'm not as um as anti-crust as I might sound it's just that I want us to know
together I want us to have our wings back
the many kinds of wings that are natural to our humanity
it's a lot of people out here today it's sunny it's hot
I'm gonna cross the street
um
I feel really privileged I feel privileged to have lived this long
I feel privileged for every glimpse I've had of anything resembling insight
I feel privileged for
the astonishing abundance of living beings
all around me within me and in you
you
you know if you don't think humans are social animals
you can see that in general they like to be together
and that's no accident
but there's a place where we're never not together
there's a dimension
of unity
from which some aspect of me is emerging moment to moment
into expression in this body in this life in my senses
and it's not conceptual and it has nothing to do with mechanics
and there's not a single model I've ever seen that would survive the briefest glimpse of this thing
it's funny you know the humans are fascinated by aliens but they don't realize that each one
of them comes from beyond not just in terms of you know
not just in terms of their origin moment though certainly in those terms
no no we we're coming from beyond right now right this is radio beyond
coming to you from deep beyond at this very moment
so I let my boat ride me a little bit
so that I could
frame some of these thoughts and senses that I have passions I hold dear
briefly briefly enough
I like John Carpenter's perspective he's roundly dismissed by academia
like his colleague Dean Raiden
who is aware of something very similar right that there's
there's something going on way before consciousness that's transcendental
to the models we're using to frame and think about and dissect and explain
what's going on as a human being
experiencing mind states while awake
mind states it's not really it's bad language
experiencing their peculiar transformations in the landscape of the mind
experiencing the process
of mind-like activity
these little flowers in the grass how like stars upon the darkened sky
how like thoughts emerging from the depths
wherein they find their origin
