Hi, so my name is Darren Stevenson, you can find me on Facebook by that name, I'm in San
Francisco there, and this is my YouTube channel.
I want to say a few things.
The first thing is, I'm not an expert, this is in the lecture, I'm actually playing a
game with you where I talk to you in the future and you teach me right now in your past.
And there's other kinds of games we're playing within that game that I can't understand
them, I don't know how they work, I only know a little bit about how to play them.
And so, I'm not a professional, but I study professionals with the goal of generally either
surpassing them or probably shooting them, mostly because I'm very curious and I'm passionately
curious about intelligence.
So you might think of me, you've probably seen like a politician before, someone who
can really work a crowd, and they can work a crowd to lift themselves up, to get the
crowd to lift them up.
And a rock star is the same way, and a movie star is similar, but a comedian is a little
bit different.
A comedian sort of involves your intelligence in an unusual way.
A comedian is really kind of a closet revolutionary, and I'm not a comedian, but what I like to
do is this weird game where I lift you up in the future, as high as I possibly can, and
somehow in the past you lift me up way higher than I could ever go.
Now in order to do that, I have to get very low right now and not be an expert and not
know what I'm doing.
I have to kind of trust you.
And there's this very strange quality to this game, which I want to kind of tell you a joke
about.
And the joke goes like this.
And it's really complex because the joke changes every time I try to tell it.
And so it's not really a joke.
It's actually, yeah, I don't even know what to call it, which is interesting.
You'll see why in a second.
So I want to see this kid, and he was really, really curious.
And he'd heard about UFOs and the idea that there might be other intelligences of kinds
we don't even know about, which of course, by the way, religion is actually the idea
that there are other intelligences.
They've spun that idea in a way that is very confusing.
And I think mostly wrong.
But there are other intelligences.
That's a fact.
And we don't need science or religion to authorize us, you and me, to explore that right now
without machines and to verify that together in our lives experience and in ways we can
test easily.
We can demonstrate them.
And we don't need science for that.
And we don't need religion.
And we don't even, we don't need gurus.
We don't need books.
We don't need leaders.
We don't need me.
We don't need any framework.
We come complete with everything we need to do that.
If we would just let that happen, it would.
But anyway, I knew this kid was very curious.
And he believed that it was at least possible that he might be able to one day stand face
to face with some other form of intelligence.
And he didn't need to know what kind, although the stories all around him convinced him,
like everyone else, that there were only really three kinds.
Our kind, because there's no other kind like us on earth, apparently.
And then two kinds of sky kinds of intelligence.
The first one is aliens.
Theoretically, these are modeled.
People who fly around in machines and communicate with machines, which everyone can see aren't
fast enough to do any of the things that aliens would do with them.
Strangely, there is something fast enough to do all those things, like fly through,
you know, space faster than light and stuff like that.
But we don't believe that it's that kind of thing.
We don't believe that you can fly with it, for example, or that it travels.
There's that kind of thing all around us.
In fact, I'm talking out of it right now, in a sense, in more senses than one.
So it's really curious, kid, at least believed it was possible that you could be either like
the alien sky intelligence or the religious sky intelligences.
And of course, the religious people say there's also like a very scary like intelligence somewhere
underneath everything that will get you and is trying to get you and wants you and was
and is always mimicking things.
It's like pretending to be good and pretending to be holy and it's pretending to be science.
It's pretending to be biology and understanding and evolutionary theory and it's pretending
to be the new age and it's pretending to be psychism.
It's a pretending, pretending, pretending monster that's everywhere and it's going to
get you.
It's in the belt of people, you know, and only only certain book ideas.
If you announce that you believe them and then sort of somehow do something with your
heart, I had the wrong side because I don't even understand how they could think that
this works.
But you save some things out of a book that has to do with particular words in particular
languages on earth in particular times.
And then you supposedly do certain things in your heart and then the monster can't get
you and you get eternal life and virgin princesses love you in heaven forever.
I don't know what happens to the virgin princesses where they just get to be what the shadows
of the guys who sinned like crazy on earth but said the book things and then had the
heart.
No, something's all weird about that.
I'm sorry.
The whole book people thing is a hypnosis gig and I'm going to lay that out to you right
here as we play along.
But this kid was really, really curious.
He thought I can either meet the like downstairs intelligences or the upstairs intelligences
or the alien intelligences or some way I can do it.
I might need machines.
I don't know what I need, but it can happen.
I knew this kid and he was crazy about this idea.
He was so crazy that he just kept trying to learn everything like and he just thought
he could learn anything and people say you can't learn that.
He would learn it and surpass them and they would say you can't do that.
You're an expert and he would learn it and surpass them.
I just went on like this and everybody didn't really like this kid too much.
He had a few close friends, but they felt threatened because he could outperform them
and he didn't understand and they didn't understand.
It was a big mess.
Then one day out of the blue, unexpectedly, it happened.
He met an intelligence that was verifiably intelligent, much more intelligent than
anything he'd ever seen in any book in all of books.
And it definitely at least didn't seem to be human, not in any sense he could understand.
And it could prove things.
And even having a brief conversation with it of say two seconds, in that two
seconds, this kid learned more than in any 20 years of his life studying anything in
person and this kid could learn fast in any environment, no matter how bad or good
he could learn like crazy.
So when he met an intelligence that taught him in a few seconds in ways he
couldn't even understand, more than he had learned in 20 years of his passionately
inflamed study.
And these things that he learned were translatable into human ideas and they could
be shared with other people who were interested and they could be tested and
they were astonishingly advanced and they weren't channeling and it was confusing.
So he couldn't actually tell whether at first, whether it was himself going crazy,
right?
Because that would be, of course, everybody on earth would say, well, this child was
insane to begin with, poor little guy.
He's just full of fantasies.
He's very imaginative, but it's just his imagination, right?
There's no public, there's no public science about this.
No one, you can't prove it objectively, right?
I mean, come on, you can't, you know, you don't really believe this guy.
He's just, he's having a little bit of, he's very creative.
Okay.
He's a nice guy.
He's pretty smart.
He's, you know, he's an artistic guy.
Artistic, bear that word in mind for later.
And thank you for teaching me all this, by the way.
I really appreciate your participation because without you, I can't learn this
way and I don't know what I'm talking about.
I'm not an expert.
I don't even know the joke I'm telling.
So you're telling me it as I go along, discovering it by you helping me.
Thanks.
That's a really interesting way of working with together.
So when he, when he discovered this experience, he didn't know if it was him,
right?
Is this my own genius or have I gone crazy?
Those are two real options.
Got to hold those up pretty high because if, if it, if it was happening to me,
why didn't happen to everyone else?
Why would it be him?
You know, why, why would it be now wherever this was?
Why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why can't he just run
up and save the world if that's true?
Why, why can't he just invent free energy and a million little lies?
Each of which he could answer this kid because I asked him a bunch of them.
Can you answer this?
You, can you, can you answer any of these challenges?
He said, yes, I can answer all of them and he answered a few of them.
He can answer them.
What's the joke?
So he couldn't really tell if he was insane, if he was becoming a genius,
which was inexplicable.
Why would that suddenly happen?
Or if he was actually in contact with some other kind of intelligence,
we don't even know what kind.
And the weird thing was it seemed both, it seemed like all three kinds and other
kinds we don't even, we've never even imagined.
So it seemed like the space alien kind sort of to him.
And it seemed like the, um, the divine kind, uh, to him.
And it also seemed like the underneath weird, crazy mimic kind all at once.
It was all those kinds and, and, and, and it wouldn't really say which one, right?
It just, it's all kinds.
In fact, it was all the kinds.
Um, it was the humankind.
It was the animal kind, the water kind, the light kind, the sun kind, the moon kind.
It was all the kinds.
So the problem that this kid then had was what, what was it?
It didn't fit in any one.
And everyone wanted to know, well, what is it?
You know, are you crazy?
Are you intel?
Do you have intelligence?
Do you have a connection with something alien, something divine or something demonic?
Right.
It's a pretty simple set of ideas, right?
Are you nuts?
Are you very smart?
Is it divine?
Is it alien and advanced to mechanical?
Cause all the alien intelligence, as we tend to think about it or like that,
advanced to mechanical.
Is it demonic?
That's it.
Crazy, smart, divine, alien.
Demonic.
See how interestingly these all go on this one hand, which also weirdly includes
things like nature, the sun, the moon, language, time, space, the universe, stars.
And then this has a wrist really weirdly, which connects this whole structure, both
sides, which is a one, it's like a unity side.
And I decided all these little distinctions.
See all those little lines on there?
See how all the lines on here are just general and warbly, but on here they're
really distinct.
It's like unity and distinction here.
And then there's this wrist that connects it to a body.
Just like it's got, it's one whole thing first.
So it's a whole made of parts.
It has one unifying body, one thinking member with two major sections, neck and head.
One, two, three, four, one, two, three, four working members, which with three sections.
What if everything's like that?
So that I'm a little crazy.
I'm a little insane.
It's a bit divine.
It's somewhat alien.
There's something demonic afoot.
Afoot.
And nature, time, light, stars, space, intelligence, itself, humanity, history, evolution,
one thing, what if it's written right here?
And what if I really don't know what I'm doing?
And what if I have no idea what this means?
But we're just learning it together right now.
Do you notice how I use my hands as if they could sing to you or, or shape worlds and
just fling them across the divide between us and, and draw you back into me and, and dance
together and then include the universe and just bring that whole thing down in here and
then spin and joy and dance and sing with this.
You know what's interesting about this?
It's hypnotic.
It puts us in a trance just to see it.
This is why people on psychedelic drugs often, they just become fascinated with this.
And this is why magicians learn to use their hands in ways that are evocative and that
invoke wonder.
By the way, I'm actually shivering right now.
And I'm shivering because I'm so excited about what I'm sharing with you, what I'm
learning right now with you.
And you've probably heard people on stage say that.
People like magicians or politicians or self-help coaches.
The difference between me and them is really interesting.
They want to use you to raise them up and then get you to give them a bunch of money.
Okay.
I want to use this force between us to raise you up farther than me, much higher than me.
And then from up there, you will teach me things that I could never learn about you.
And everyone will think that I am smart or I am psychic or I am an alien.
Or I am a demon, or they'll try to put me in you, maybe even to you in some category,
but that won't work.
I don't know what I'm doing.
I'm not even lecturing.
I don't even know what I'm saying.
So how are we getting intelligence this clear?
And this beautiful and this exciting, so exciting, I'm shivering as I'm learning it.
And I've learned a lot of interesting things.
It's, it's hard to shock me, but you're managing it right now, you, all of you.
And instead of the fakery that we get with them, by the way, we're going to hang out here for a little while.
I brought a little food, a little water, I intend to just hang out for a bit and learn.
This is school for me.
And I'm just playing around here.
We're, we're sketching on paths like children in school, right?
We're just learning.
I have no religion to sell, no paradigm.
I want you to forget my face.
I'm only, the only reason I'm including my face is because this is evocative.
Otherwise, I would just wear a mask with nothing.
So it would be blank and you can have any face here.
And you can still do that.
Just imagine that I'm any face so that you don't know who I am.
Now, what happened to this kid, by the way, back then?
What was it that he contacted that was teaching him?
And what happened to him?
And what was his future and all of that?
Well, here's the joke.
He never found out because he realized that everything is like that.
And you and I are actually having that experience right now.
What is this?
Are you sure you know?
I even don't know and I'm supposedly making it.
And really, when I say I don't know, I'm not joking with you like someone who would fool around with you or a conman or a politician or a self-help coach or even a well-intentioned and beautifully skillful psychic.
No, I want you to get all the treasure and I'm going to pay you every piece of money I can possibly get.
Every piece of value that I can derive from a game I'm going to teach you how to play right now together and you don't have to believe any of it.
You can throw me away.
You can forget my name.
You can forget we ever met because just, I don't even know.
Now, other people will tell you things that are really crazy.
They'll tell you things like you want to be successful.
You know what?
Their idea of success, most of those people, is backwards.
Their idea of success means with money, fame, and power.
Money is blood, fame's a lie.
And real power looks like the power of an infant child to unify those around it immediately into a pod that's like this, that now has an intelligence older than time.
This is a physical expression of an intelligence older than time.
We overlook it.
Let me explain what I mean.
This informs our brains, structural development.
In the same way this has informed our species, evolutionary development, from animals in nature as all the other animals there were, which we don't understand what those are even slightly, by the way.
If you had any idea, not much would be very interested in machines ever again.
Or any other movie or book or anything.
You get an idea of what an animal is.
You're going to forget about human culture.
The same way in which a person has been eating rocks all their life, when suddenly introduced to a peach, is first of all, they're just going to fall unconscious.
They're not going to be able to handle it.
It's going to just knock them out and they're going to shiver and maybe vomit.
And they're going to look like they're dying.
They're going to think they're dying.
And when they wake up, they'll never eat a rock again.
They won't allow anyone to eat rocks around them.
You want to find out what an animal is and a plant.
Because there are nothing like the human stories.
They're beyond all religion, more than all religion, more than all science, in a single plant.
In a single animal.
Don't forget that.
They make networks.
Our minds come out of those.
It's important.
I actually lost my train of thought.
Because I'm so excited about what I'm learning here.
Anyway, you'll see people working, oh yeah, the hand.
This is actually what's driving our evolutionary development.
And as you'll see, we do things with our hands now all the time.
In our hands, with our hands.
If you have little hand demons all lit up in there, that used to be our unity.
Now it's a little electronic, light, bright thing that throws advertisements at you for mimics.
We'll get to that.
Don't let them fuck up your hand.
Don't let them make you forget about this.
I'm going to remind you.
Remind all your children.
I'll keep reminding you in new ways all the time.
But this drives the development of our minds.
What we do with this is everything.
This, we can't know what it is.
No one can know.
No one can tell you or teach you.
They can teach you things about it.
Not what it is.
This helps us discover whatness so you can't know what that is.
Like intelligence itself, like us together now.
What are we?
We don't know.
We're not a cult.
We're not even a pod.
We're something there's no name for, but we're learning together fast.
We overlook this.
You open something, you close something.
You read something, you caress someone.
You eat something, you throw something away.
You lock something.
You lock it.
You type.
You look up.
You scroll.
You expand.
You zoom.
You shrink.
You move.
You jam.
No, no, no.
You drum.
Boom, boom, boom.
You play the guitar.
You play pianos.
You have sexual encounters with the hands.
You check out things with food.
You open them up.
You repair them.
You drive a car.
You get something.
You give something.
What is this?
Could this be a signaling device of divine intelligence?
Could this be a map?
If there was an intelligence in the universe and it wanted to give us all a map that we
couldn't lose, that we would be involved in and with every time we did anything, including
me talking to you right now.
Two maps, actually, that aren't precisely the same.
They complement and oppose one another.
They can move in a strange kind of unity.
But is it once complementary, reflective, in conflict and distinct?
The hands.
They are.
Our culture and our intelligence comes with and from what we do with them.
What we do with our hands.
By the way, YouTube has recently learned this.
And so what they're doing, if they're scrolling through your images with a machine intelligence
that looks for hand gestures, let's see, I'm ahead of their game and you should be too.
I'm Italian and we speak with our hands.
We give the song of our soul with our hands and we receive and request.
We hide and we reject with our hands.
So it's very natural for me to under step, har, a star, hand to under step, hand.
But this strange structure and the wrist is like this structure.
And the wrist that connects us all, so to speak, doesn't connect us because we're not really distinct.
It actually distinguishes us all from unity is the right way.
So we've got it backwards.
In the future, you're changing the past through my mouth and my hands.
We overlook our hands.
We don't realize that they're instructing our development very rapidly in evolutionary cycles inside us that are cognitive rather than physical.
They affect primarily the structure of our mind and its potentials rather than necessarily directly our DNA.
That does affect our DNA, but I wouldn't make magic or even science about that just yet and I'm not willing to.
We know that epigenetics happens, which means that what we believe about the world and our environmental relations has an effect on DNA of some kind.
We've basically proven it.
So believing that that makes us a religious kind of monster where we can pre-program our DNA, which isn't programmable because it's not a machine, is wrong.
That's just confused.
There's something weird about that.
DNA is programmed by our environmental relations primarily.
So we would have to change how we relate with the environment if we want to change the expression of our DNA and it's not programming.
You can stop using that word.
To pretend that organisms are like machines is like pretending that the Sun is like a match book and then believing that.
Don't do it.
You're not like a computer.
You don't get downloads from the sky.
What does happen is wave intelligence that's highly compressed can enter you and it seems like a download idea because it uncompresses inside you in waves and stuff like that.
Wave intelligence from nature is actually the source of our intelligence.
It's how we got intelligent, right?
And we don't possess it.
We receive it.
So you wipe out nature.
We're going to stop being intelligent.
That's happening already, by the way.
In fact, that's why I can say this because I talk with and for all the living beings, I have a purpose that's different from the hypnotists and the gurus and the authors and even the magical, beautiful people, the saints and everything.
I have a different purpose.
My purpose is to get my people and all of the people to have a chance to learn what intelligence might be without me telling them.
But by showing each other and remembering, re-membering, right?
Re-configuring what distinguishes us, not what connects us.
Re-configuring what distinguishes us from a transcendental unity that we can experience directly right now and you and I are experiencing it right now.
This is part of that.
Do you want to prove this is the proof?
Wait and see where I go.
And if I don't go somewhere amazing, then you can call me back and say, you know what?
You didn't prove anything to me.
I will.
Now I'm going to demonstrate a little thing.
You'll like it.
Hypnotists use it.
Success coaches use it.
Psychics use it.
Politicians use it.
Radical, rebellious leaders use it.
Think Jesus Christ, Joan of Arc.
Think Subcomandante, Marcos.
Think Alexander.
Think Hypatia of Alexandria.
Think Susan B. Anthony.
Think the most amazing actual psychic that exists on earth or ever did.
They knew about this and they might not have known how to say it and they didn't usually give it away.
It was considered to be dangerous.
I think it's much more dangerous to be ignorant so now it's time to spin the tables.
Give you the powers for free because they come from you in the first place.
That's the fact.
All of the powers.
We don't have to name them.
Are they insane?
Are they genius?
Are they divine?
Are they alien?
Are they demonic?
No, they're all five like our hands.
Which one do you want?
Do you want just one finger on your mind?
Then go ahead and pick.
Be my guest.
Everyone else did.
They said like the kid was insane.
He's just very imaginative or a combination of he's partly insane and he's partly intelligent and that just makes nothing.
What?
That's how you put that critique together by the way, by being partly insane and partly intelligent.
The way that you got to that critique of the child was nuts was by doing that.
So to say that that's nothing, you're confused.
And then some people said, well no, it's that plus demons from hell and he's a monster.
We've seen kind of insane people that seem like that but they're not.
I can tell you not only how insane people got insane but how to fix them like that.
Same thing with criminals.
Not a problem.
And even broken people of every kind can be fixed because the society told them to be one thing.
So they went, okay, I'll be broken.
Or okay, I'll be intelligent.
Or okay, I'll be a priest.
Or okay, I'll be an alien contact research psychic.
Or I'll be a chaos magician demon, demonic intelligence guy.
Can we just be together?
Wouldn't that be easier?
Then we get to use all the intelligences and we don't have to amputate any.
This one doesn't have to yell at that one.
It doesn't have to pretend that this one, you know, is everyone.
And it doesn't have to this intelligence guy doesn't have to attack God doesn't have to attack aliens doesn't have to attack demons doesn't have to attack crazy people.
And it can just use these to become more intelligent.
Does that sound religious, ridiculous, dogmatic, like I'm aggrandizing myself or I want you to pay me like I'm hypnotizing you.
What I'm trying to do is I'm trying to reconfigure everything.
They said you were all connected they lied.
You are one thing you are all disconnected in different ways by what you think you know.
And when you don't know things, you become what I would like to just playfully call transcendent.
So nature raised humans up to sentience.
We started attacking them, which made us stupid.
Okay, you can't raise up what's attacking you how you're going to do that.
And by the way, Jesus that radical, possibly mythical, amazingly messianic guy a long time ago, he said this thing he said, you know, kingdom can't stand when divided.
You'll do greater works than me.
He said things like don't judge ever because you'll be judged right if you pretend you're one of these then you become one of these and this goes away and this is the kingdom of heaven and every child has it.
He said, listen, you know, follow those little children, a little child will lead them.
This is the where the little child lives.
Listen, my heart, he's in your heart.
Little child is here.
Let's not forget.
Let's not pretend.
Let's not think our books and our holy religions are I dolls are I dolls, which we're not supposed to really have.
We shouldn't put them before each other.
Let's not pretend that they're sacred and kill each other our future and our intelligence with them.
We need this and more and more.
See, what's this?
Because if this is insanity and this is intelligence, this might be prodigy like Einstein or Goodle.
And if this is this is insanity, this is prodigy.
If this is intelligence, this is its superposition, which we don't even know what that is, but it's comprised of these three things.
God, the ideas about the paranormal and aliens and psychics and blah, blah, blah and demonic things, things we think of as these three things in one up here.
That leaves three more that we don't even know what they are.
And these down here, these are sub-positions.
You don't want to inhabit a sub-position of a sub-position of a sub-position of a superposition.
You don't want to do that.
Don't keep driving yourself down the tree.
Drive yourself back into unity, like a dolphin pod swimming through and flowing over one another in unison and learning like a song together in the future in the past and in the present
in ways that establish the future ahead of them, inform and restructure the past and heal it behind them and turn the present into prodigy, unthinkable.
Now, here's what I'm going to teach you.
I study hypnotists because I study intelligence.
I'm an intelligence artist, you might say.
You know how a con man works?
A con man rips you off, right?
They figure out what your weaknesses are and they option those to take your everything.
And a virus works similarly, right?
It figures out what the weaknesses in your computer is.
It infects that.
It gets your identity credentials and it compromises them.
I'm going to do exactly the opposite thing, okay?
That's my goal.
And I don't even know what I'm doing.
I'm not a professional here.
I'm just playing around.
We're just like kids playing a game.
But let's play this game because it's a really interesting idea.
I'm going to do the opposite.
I'm going to get ahold of your identity credentials and give them back to you.
Whoops.
See, you were in one of these.
I'm going to put you back here where you don't have to be one of these ever again.
And you can play with the full hand.
Wouldn't that be nice?
Up here too.
And in your heart too.
In your eye.
How you see.
How you understand.
It will grow.
It will explode like flowers in ways I can't predict.
In ways I know nothing about.
I'm not going to tell you why.
I don't know why.
I just know that we are.
The kid never found out what that was.
In fact, every time he water-fied it, it leapt way above that.
He went like, oh, gosh, it wasn't that.
And then he water-fied it again and went way above that.
He was like, oh, it wasn't that.
It's the thing that's so interesting.
It doesn't matter what it is.
It's not a demon, though.
I promised you that.
It's not a bad thing.
You can tell by its motives.
Its purpose is what moves it makes.
It's not bad.
Same way an infant knows, right?
You caress and feed it.
You know, you love.
If you pretend you're going to caress it and sort of tap it and aren't nice,
it knows you're faking.
All beings are like this.
You don't have to have a law.
If you have to have a law, you're too confused.
Laws aren't going to help you.
You should have a culture that's so beautiful that you barely need laws.
Then laws can be useful.
If you have a culture that's so tortured that it's made of laws, you're done.
You're in prison.
And that's where we live.
We've been there for...
Well, we've been there for billions of lifetimes.
Because right now, on Earth, one transit around the sun,
seven billion human life years.
Or more.
One year.
Seven billion.
We can't afford to be confused anymore.
There's too many people at stake.
One year, seven billion people suffer the repercussions of our stupidity,
our pride, what we call religion,
what we pretend is intelligence.
You know what?
Thumbs up, homo sapiens.
You're the single most ignorant species in the entire history of life on Earth.
Nothing's ever been as dumb as you.
Nothing's ever been more proud.
That's a recipe for, first, homicide, murder.
And then, suicide, you kill yourself.
And while you're doing that, omniside.
This attacks everything that moves, most of what doesn't.
It lets itself God and blames the victims.
This is the end of human intelligence in your face.
This is the result of attacking nature.
And pretending that representations can replace relationships.
Never happen.
You can tell yourself all the stories you want and build all the supposedly intelligent machines that you can think of.
Not going to happen.
Relationships are intelligence.
That's it. That's all.
That's what that kid in the joke encountered, and that's what this is, and we're encountering it here, and I don't know what it is.
But it's relationships.
That pot of dolphins, this hand, when we join hands together,
that's ships of relation.
We're going through time, and we're restructuring the future ahead of us.
It's teaching us how to do that.
And behind us, we're redeeming the human past by doing something so beautiful and forward-thinking and intelligent that the whole planet, all living beings, are behind it.
I'm going to show you how that works.
By using a metaphor from nature that human cultures use in their fake nature are representational relationships, right?
Which are falsified relationships based on prison technology and ideas from prisons where you've got elite gods who are humans and over you who don't believe any of this.
They don't believe any of that.
They don't even care about that, okay?
They care about one thing only, crushing you, making you a sex object,
removing all of your intelligence and all of your liberties, claiming to be your heroes,
cramming you further and further and further down the tree into one of these little branches so that you'll fight each other, right?
So that you won't see the hand, yeah?
You'll just see this.
See, you can't tell there's a hand there if you see that.
As long as you can hide this, right?
You've got to hide the crazy people too, by the way.
You've got to hide the people who are signaling demonically.
You've got to hide these paranormal people.
You've got to hide the divine people.
You've got to hide the actually intelligent people, right?
And you just do this, yeah?
That's all.
You hide that with lies and fear and propaganda, yeah?
And then these people raise you up above them so you can hide that even better.
Machines do this, by the way.
Machines and politicians and hypnotists and success coaches and religious leaders and gurus and many radical leaders and, you know, just about everybody.
They're doing some version of this.
It's not cool.
And they're pretending that they're giving you back this, right?
And protecting this, yeah?
And telling you, like, no, it's the family and it's our togetherness and, you know, it's the God.
It's the power of your subconscious mind to bring you into success.
It's the power of the secret, right?
To just attract and manifest your wildest dreams of castles in the sand and stacks of money just piling up, you know, in front of you.
And houses and having marriage with Richard Branson's Island and the fashion and the beauty and the shamanism and the new paradigm and the geometry religion.
And, you know, it's just so, we're so, oh, we're so wrong.
I mean, dead.
Wrong.
All the way.
It's wrong.
Science as a God is wrong.
Science doesn't get to tell us what things are or are not, nor does religion.
Those are toys.
We direct them like language, knowledge, governments.
Those are toys.
If they become gods, okay?
We're listening to the crazy thing and we're raising it up above us and it's just going, I got you now.
And since it's part of us, right?
It's part of this.
But it's hidden that fact from us, yeah?
It's hiding that away, right?
We've got this weird situation where it's on top, we're on the bottom and it's hiding it like this.
So we think we can't affect it.
Everyone thinks that.
They can't really affect it.
They're wrong.
One person can affect it and I'm going to do that right now with this hand and you.
And these words, your ears now, our eyes.
Here's the game.
In nature, there's a fish called a remora.
I want you to learn how to play this game, by the way.
All of you in any way you want and test it.
You'll see it's working everywhere.
A remora attaches to a shark and it's not a potentially aggressive fish.
And occasionally it gets eaten by a shark, by the way, because the shark just like mistakes it or doesn't know what it is or doesn't care or it annoys the shark.
Or it triggers the shark's eating urge, which is really sort of mechanical like, right?
Because once you trigger it, it just bites.
Every fisherman knows this.
You trigger a fish, it bites.
What if there's a way to trigger you?
So you just bite.
And then you're hooked.
There is.
I can do it.
Other people can do it.
They're called success coaches.
They're called psychics.
They're called gurus.
They're called rebel leaders.
And some of them are great.
Some of them are truly great people.
They're not all bad, but they're all hooking you in the same way.
They trigger you and then they hook you.
And then you're like enchanted, bad.
If you're going to get enchanted, get enchanted with something that makes you really, really smart, really, really fast.
And protects you from hypnotic gambits and gives you the powers that unity naturally gives you, right?
So we're going to restructure how we are divided, right?
Because that's what's getting screwed up.
Not how we are connected.
Telling people that you're all one or that you're all connected is the wrong idea.
That's backwards.
We're not going to, they've been doing that for thousands of years.
It failed.
And by the way, all those gambits, the religious one, failed.
The intelligence one, failed.
The crazy people failed.
The demonic people failed, although they got closest really.
And the alien intelligence as well.
Wow, did they fail?
And I can show you how in 10 ways.
Anyway, the remora.
It hangs out with sharks.
In human cultures, the way this works is you remora with a shark who's successful and then one day you become a shark.
And you either eat the shark that taught you or you lead it, right?
And so now you hunt together and you take advantage of everyone else.
The remora doesn't have to have any of the shark's powers.
It doesn't have to travel under it.
It doesn't have to spend money to travel.
It goes wherever the sharks go and it cleans up after them.
So it learns everything about sharks more than sharks know.
It's not like sharks at all.
It's outside the shark culture, but it's intimate with it.
And this is how all the mimics in human culture work.
The people who mimic intelligence, they mimic liberty, they mimic spirituality, they mimic genius and they deliver slavery for which they charge you and you gladly pay.
Don't.
Don't do that.
That's insulting to your soul and to your mind, to all history of life on earth.
That's an insult to your ancestors, to my ancestors.
Don't do that.
Let's become together something more than all of that game and we'll pay each other in something that makes money.
Look, terrifying and diseased.
We'll pay each other in intelligence right now.
I'll show you ways like nothing you've ever imagined because I am the child in that joke.
And you?
You're the intelligence that taught me in the future.
You.
You're this.
Okay?
You're this.
You're divine.
You're alien.
You're demonic.
And you're in the future.
You're extremely advanced.
And you're teaching me and you can't tell.
But I can show you how.
And when I do, you're going to skyrocket past me and then teach me even better in the past.
So I'm getting paid with interest right now by giving you everything I've got for free.
The remora.
I'm a shark remora along with me.
Now listen.
In success culture, you're taught to remora with a shark to model a successful person.
That's a very important thing that's got some fundamentally powerful ideas and abilities inside it.
Children use it to learn language and to derive minds from their environments and culture.
Magicians also, they're intimately familiar with everything I'm telling you about.
Magicians and hypnotists are probably two of the best people to learn from.
People like Darren Brown, that guy can work a crowd.
He could be president.
He could be anything.
He goes around debunking the idea.
If there's anything special and pretends that you're just easily hypnotized into doing things, he's mistaken.
He could be using what he's doing to make you vastly more intelligent.
He's not.
All he's really doing you is showing you that people who you think are intelligent might not be as great as you think and can make you do things.
That's not very interesting.
He programmed someone to be an assassin to see if you could hypnotically program an assassin.
He could.
But what if you hypnotically programmed someone to save the human race or to solve all the problems on earth or to become such a prodigy that they could lead the leaders better than they could lead themselves?
And here's the really weird thing about experts and the people who've actually had encounters with non-human intelligences.
The two people who should both know the most about them.
These are the people most blind.
And here's the reason.
What we think of as intelligence is actually a flashlight that throws out blackness of a peculiar kind.
It's anti-light.
Our eyes do that too, by the way.
We make rays of anti-light with our eyes, in a sense, metaphorically.
And by the way, everything I'm telling you here is just a game.
It's not a religion.
You want to find it in a book?
Or it's playing together like children or learning.
Okay, so there's no experts here.
I don't even know what I'm doing.
I mentioned that, right?
I don't know what I'm doing.
There's no name for it.
How would I find out what I'm doing right now?
I don't even know what I'm going to say.
So, back to this thing.
I convinced myself I didn't know what I was doing and now I can't remember.
I'm just going to go back to the remora for a moment.
Anyway, the hypnotists and the magicians, they use these things not to help you,
but to kind of do that other thing where you make them seem great and you pay them money
and you think they're something amazing when actually you're being violated egregiously
in religion, in politics, in government, in intelligence and schools,
in your social relationships because they're all representations, mostly, with a few exceptions.
In every finger of ours, of the hands of our minds and souls and our unity, we're being violated.
And we're paying for that privilege.
When we can be paying each other, something that makes money look like it's evolutionary force.
And it can be expressed however you want.
I'm not going to tell you how to express it.
You'll find your own way once you start understanding and learning as yourself.
That's all.
No agenda.
No cold.
No paradigm.
It won't hurt you.
It's just a toy.
I'm just making it to play with.
I don't even know what this is.
It's actually remoras, right?
The remoras become the sharks and they learn about the sharks.
So you can use this technique.
If you find a meme that's particularly offensive, attach intelligence to it.
If you find someone who can do something really well, attach your mind to their whole universe and try and stimulate it, right?
This is how, become it.
Just like you were playing an act, just like you were an actor in a movie.
When I'm around the store, I sometimes play different roles.
When I get into the shower, I pretend I'm taking a shower as a different person each day.
Today I'm taking a shower as Joan of Arc.
What's it like?
What's in my past?
What's in my future?
What's watching off?
Play games.
Intelligence is about games that build unities and that reflect back from multiple positions on you.
Positions of your heroes.
Positions of experts.
Positions of divine people.
Positions of alien ideas and advanced science fiction motives and extreme criticisms of our intelligence in our society.
Like what we're doing here is actually science fiction.
I am being science fiction with you together right now.
So this one works really good here for that part of it.
But don't buy into the conspiracy aliens are in spaceships thing.
That's nonsense.
I'll show you something about aliens.
You'll be meeting them tomorrow and they're not going to be anything like you like or are expecting.
They're going to be something so astonishing.
You're going to forget all the human models and you're going to be like, what the hell is that?
Just like we're doing now.
As for the demonic thing, let me explain about this.
Without this, the universe would be a speck.
There'd be no space.
No division between words.
No division between tones and music.
No hot and cold.
No light and dark.
No two brain hemispheres.
No two eyes.
No two anything.
No nothing.
There'd be no space.
You'd have one solid speck.
What this is is how things get distinguished.
This is like an agent intelligence in the universe in our minds and our relationships.
It's not evil.
It's untamed.
And in the wrong hands, like ours, because we're confused, that's by it.
It makes false divisions or it falsifies connections both.
It makes false divisions that aren't real in something that's completely unified.
Fundamentally, outside of time and space, it's completely unified.
All of time, all of space, all of being one thing.
And everything here is one thing.
It's just one thing.
We make the divisions and then claim they're there.
They're not.
And this is what helps us make those divisions.
Now, this thing's untamed and it's wild and wants to ride you.
That's like if a horse came up and said, hey, I want to ride you up that mountain.
Not a good idea.
But it does it with us.
And that's why we build for it and work for it and are enslaved by it.
And this is what the mimics work for, sort of.
They work for this.
All of the mimics, even whether they're good or bad, they all sort of work for the phony.
The phony distinction thing that tells you that psychism is because we're all connected
and I have secret powers.
No.
It's because we're all one thing.
And the way that we were distinguished in our languages and cultures by thoughts is
false.
And so anyone who takes that off or changes how that connects a network of ideas, their
mind works differently.
And now, first they are one and only kind of as an afterthought they are an individual.
Right?
Well, this thing twists that around and says, no, first you're an individual and only as
an afterthought you have incredibly bizarre kinds of unity that aren't ordinary with
all modes of being and all of matter and the universe and the sky.
The stars is you.
You look up at the night sky, you're seeing the blanket of your being.
You uniquely.
So too the person next to you.
And different, you know, blankets, but the same blanket.
Different versions of that same blanket.
Perfectly unique, perfectly complete.
Each one.
Yeah.
And if there isn't, there is sort of a central body of being, you know, you have to call
it anything.
Let's forget about that.
We keep fighting over that.
Why?
I don't have to fight over me being here.
Here I am.
I don't know what you call me.
You got to call me something?
Well, if you really need to go ahead, I'm here.
You don't have to call me anything.
It won't matter what you call me much to you.
To me, if I care.
The remora.
The remora agitates the crowd, right?
Gets them all.
Anyway they want.
Doesn't matter.
You make them fighting and happy.
Anything you like.
And it makes them give them all that energy and raises them up above it, like Facebook
above you or Google above you, right?
Or artificial intelligence above you.
Computers above you.
Cell phones above you.
Automobiles cars above you.
Money above you.
Power above you.
All above you, right?
And you just pay your power and your intelligence into that and they raise them.
They raise themselves up above you and charge you more each time.
And just deprive you of yourself to violate you.
They call that education.
They call that liberation.
They call that wisdom.
You quote their words madly on every Facebook page all day long to each other.
You don't make your own.
You can't surpass them.
You're not even trying.
You don't believe you can, apparently.
Or you don't know how or you don't want to.
You've been lied to in every possible way.
You've been lied to about what your mind is.
What your body is.
What needs to be human.
What nature is.
Everything.
So we're just going to drop all of that and learn together.
That's all we're going to do with toys.
You don't have to believe anything I'm saying.
Test it for yourself.
Check it out.
Taste it.
You'll figure it out.
You'll teach me.
You are.
I told you that already.
You're teaching me.
Now here's the thing about remoras.
There's all those weird kinds, right?
There's a crazy kind.
The intelligent kind.
The divine kind.
We'll come back to that in a minute.
The weird conspiracy alien trip kind.
It has some truth in it, right?
But it's pretty confused about the models.
The models of this one, which includes the whole New Age religions are bad.
Bad models.
Very bad.
And very seductive.
And they want to give you a quick treat that then lets you think you're intelligent.
No.
If you can do more than what I've just done in this whole lecture and then just take
that and send it to me, I'll believe you about your screwy New Age religion, which I think
right now is lying to you unless it can outdo me.
I'm glad to meet you in any field of argument, debate, or mutual excellence, right?
Where we draw each other in mutual excellence.
You bring your tools.
I'll bring mine.
And we'll see which ones survive the encounter, okay?
Any tools you want.
Divine tools from God religions.
Intelligence tools from philosophy or intellect, poetry, art.
Anything you want.
You bring it and you want to have a little to do to see which of these tools are really
better to use for each other.
Let's try them out.
Because all your tools are subsets to the ones that I'm playing with.
And I want to give you the meta tools, the ones above those, just to play with them and
you'll change them.
I don't even know.
That's why I'm not even going to tell you what they are.
I don't know what they are.
They have to do with proper use of our minds in unison for great purposes.
That's what I'm going to get out here.
What's the purpose of all those people who are agitating you and then lifting themselves
up?
Well, the purpose is to deprive you, okay?
They're going to take, excuse me, they're going to take something away from you.
And they're going to have that something and make themselves big, like the Republicans
in the GOP, the Tea Party, right?
Like the Western nations, yeah?
They make themselves big, fill up with prisons, war, extreme commerce that rapes the environment,
just wipes out the oceans, radiation, kill the whales with mapping radars, just destroy
everything and call it progress because, you know, raising the standards of living and people
are now making more money than ever and we've got healthcare in these countries where people
are starving and we're fighting disease all over.
Isn't it good to fight disease if you're not human?
In our nation?
Insurance has raped the entire population.
They made billions of dollars while we died in our homes, lost our homes, our children
were destroyed and we were not educated.
They made us purchase education.
They drove us so insane that our prisons filled up and they paid, we paid them to fill our
prisons with ourselves and children.
Seriously.
Insurance?
Liberty?
Intelligence?
Democracy?
A republic?
Does it look like a combination abattoir and gulag by chance?
Does our humanity look like scientific torture chamber where animals are mechanically injected
with pain and agony and poison to see if our products will kill us?
Suppose those are our body.
Suppose those prisoners in prisons are our minds.
What if they are our hearts?
Suppose the people we hate, the ideas that we attack, are parts of the fingers of our
own hand that, well, you know, we just don't see them because we've been so pushed to the
edge of our actual identity that my whole brain is like, you know, this fingertip now.
It's a tiny representation, demonic and obscure that has nothing to do with anything except
stories made to torture children and put them in prisons forever, charging for the privilege
and raise up idiots.
There's another game.
And the psychics know about this game and so do the magicians, so do the politicians,
but they play it for different reasons.
The psychics play the game to kind of raise them up and they're lying to you because you're
the psychic one, not them.
And there is no psychism.
That's actually, again, we've disconnected the unity in such a way of lying that we have
to make a new lie to pretend that this person over here is reconnecting it for that person.
No, they are not.
The client in the psychic-client relationship is the psychic.
The person who is hypnotized by the wealth professional who actually makes them turn
into a millionaire overnight is the wealth professional.
And that person they paid is lying about everything because they're lying about what success is.
Success is not money.
It cannot be material possessions.
Those are made of blood of living beings.
No way around it.
This is a living world.
You have to translate living beings into stacks of cash and dead futures, too, to have extreme
wealth, to own property, to drive cars, to use computers, to take photographs, okay,
to post items on news networks.
All these things require lives to be spent, dead, tortured.
Eventually, just to do what it does, America had to build a torture chamber, you see.
And before they attacked Japan with a nuclear bomb, they had to attack themselves.
Science wants to tell you that they're really great, but every animal body on Earth has been
poisoned by industrial toxins that can't be removed.
And those toxins are destroying and damaging our DNA because they're causing it to
misread the environment signals.
It's also filling us with hormones that change how gender works, which is our reproduction
system.
Our intelligence is being destroyed from the inside out by the science that was telling
us it's leading us into the future.
It's lying through its teeth, through its bloody teeth, okay.
And its teeth are bloody with our minds, our bodies, and the entire terrestrial evolutionary
history of Earth, which they claim to have discovered, excuse me, they have given us
the power to shut it off and call that knowledge and we are proceeding as planned.
Science is lethal to idiots.
And our species so far is not yet relationally intelligent.
We do not have purposive intelligence and you and I must return that now together by
remaking something more like this, a little bit, something a little bit like this, okay.
We can do it today.
We can do it even in the same ways we like to do things.
We can even do it in the really insipid ways we like to do things, but we better learn
about their dangers a lot first.
Now the mimics all agitate the crowd to get you to pay them, to lift them up above you
higher and higher and higher, and you just keep looking up and keep looking up but you
never surpass them.
There's a different game.
It's on this finger, the divine finger, so to speak, and we can remap these fingers
anytime we want.
There's no system here.
My mapping was accidental.
This divine finger, certain kinds of children are born.
Andrea Kaczyzewski, you can find on Facebook, she's a neuroscience researcher, a very
interesting woman.
She has a theory that she calls ex altruism, which means extreme altruism.
Most people sacrifice everything to lift other people, and they're like sociopaths,
and they're a little bit like psychotics except for the opposite.
Instead of wanting to see everyone explode or cut their heads off or die, they want to
see everyone rock it up into the air in beauty and intelligence and fulfillment.
They can't help it.
They need it like a drug addict needs it.
They're like, they just need it, and they need to raise other people up, and they need
to become more intelligent.
They just desperately hungry for learning and rescuing and raise the dead and change
the world, and we can do it, and they know it, and they were born to do this.
They're made to do this, and our cultures despise them.
They get shunted into one of these fingers when they don't belong there.
They're actually doing something really crazy.
They're not even doing this.
They're not here, here, here, here, here.
They're the real ones.
The real ones are here in the gap between all this, in the death, in the gap, in the
scary place, between that and the rest of reality.
What's along this wrist?
The brain of the universe, so to speak.
The eyes of the universe, so to speak.
Of time itself, so to speak.
They inhabit this position.
And from this position, they can heal or radically improve any of these people.
This is the extra altruists' location.
I'm speaking to you from this location in time and space to invite you to explore it.
You see your body is like this structure.
First, it is one.
Second, it has two aspects, unity and distinction.
Thirdly, it has a body of unity.
A purpose when noble creates super function.
Notice that this is empty.
There is nothing here.
It has to stay empty for this to be intelligent.
If I want to put something in it, hello monkey.
It has to be empty if this is already in it and I try to put something else in it.
I might be able to if it's the right shape,
but if it's the wrong shape or if I can't easily make it squish,
it's going to fall off easily and drop.
I will never be able to get it.
This is religion.
This is a paradigm.
This is a false democracy.
This is government.
This is war.
This is hatred.
This is discrimination against people who seem unique in any way at all.
This is a lie when it becomes God because then it's always in our place of unity
and we can't be ourselves.
Our unity is broken.
See that we have leaders and followers and never do they need.
The Messiah takes, so to speak, the pod hero, the true superstar,
the noble champion, male or female.
They stand here and the women are even better than men.
Women can stand in the gap much more easily than men.
Men are afraid of this.
They want to be like the point.
They want to point at you.
I'm like this.
I'm rigid.
I tell you.
They don't want to invite.
They don't want to get out of the way and then like everyone else.
They don't want to be the empty throne.
And this is the little throne next to the empty throne of the big one.
And this one's bigger.
So come here.
We'll play here together from now on, I promise you.
And we will discover things unlike anything in human history from this position.
That's how you can teach me in the future.
That's how I can teach you what you taught me from the past.
The Messiah's position depends on one important thing, your purpose.
If you have a purpose that is so beautiful in truth, not in statement, not in law,
but so beautiful in truth,
that the entire history of life on earth would be behind your purpose.
That every mother ever born would cheer wildly and say yes, please.
That every father or child of any kind would be an absolute agreement with you
and would give you their right arm to back him.
But any kind of divine intelligence that might or might not be watching
would be very pleased with this idea and even interested and shocked
that a human being came up to it, came up with this.
And an alien intelligence would say like that's truly advanced.
Let's go talk to these people.
They're not making machines.
They're making relations.
A source of intelligence.
That's interesting.
If they exist separate from us, which I'm going to show you they don't,
but they would be interested.
And so would even the demons because they'd be like,
actually they'd be retrained by it and they'd start serving you.
In other words, the distinctions would become intelligent instead of lethal.
All the distinctions.
They would heal like lightning and become intelligent.
Your demon would become the guardian angel at the hand.
And now all the ways of distinction of the one unity that is true but strange,
the ways of that distinction would become hyper intelligent
just like you and me are doing right now.
And we would tame the demon and now instead of the horse riding us
and getting bigger and bigger and bigger with every step it takes,
we will ride the horse and we will both go higher and higher and higher
with every step we all take together.
Okay?
For each other.
For each other.
My goal is to give you back everything that's been taken that I can find anywhere.
Everything.
Now free.
Free all prisoners of any kind in any kind of prison.
There used to be none.
Let's have none again and see how that works.
A lot better than what we're doing here.
Anyway, you can tame this unintelligent part and it will serve you madly
as though it were a non-human intelligence.
So the divine will be pleased.
The aliens will be interested.
The demons will be tamed.
The insane people will be cured.
Okay?
And we can learn sorts of healing and intelligence, evolutionary leaping
that all of nature has been doing and we've shunted into ignorance,
machines, science, religion, the monkey problem.
And now, we're already up here.
Okay?
Now we're like this.
Everything's hidden.
We've got a weird leader somewhere like sticking out on the side over here or something.
Yeah?
Above us.
Can't do that.
We need to get rid of this.
Replace it with something that serves us together,
with us serving each other together.
So every move we make helps each other from now on.
Everyone.
We can do that tomorrow with the technology we have now.
It's easy.
It'll be more interesting and more exciting and more astonishing than anything we've ever built.
It'll solve our government problems.
It will end something like, it will basically end war and conflict in a short period of time
because it will unify us so quickly in intelligence.
We're going to have a hard time going backwards that way.
It will get rid of prisons.
We won't forget about police.
We won't need laws.
We're going to have cultures so intelligent that laws will be an afterthought.
They'll be useful, but they'll be frosting on the cake of our incredible progress together.
This has been the promise of our intelligence and our planet from the beginning.
We've been running in the opposite direction because we're terrified of our actual role,
which is to lead, not to follow, to lead together in pods like dolphins,
going through time and intelligence because they're the same.
When you look up at the sky, you're not seeing space.
It's not.
You're seeing intelligence.
Your mind is made of that.
It's been drawn from that blanket as if in this moment, redrawn again,
not just when you were born, one time, you know, possess it.
It's flowing.
Let's follow that flow together.
That's the Messiah's game.
They come, they go into the gap, into death.
They come back to speak to you of what you taught them in that gap,
to share it with you and lift you up above them.
Stop crucifying them.
They are your own children.
Each one of your children is this thing.
They have just come from this.
They're shining in their eyes, this.
If you only let them, they will teach you a million times more
than what I've shown you in this little bit of 90 minutes.
Infant children with no language.
They teach me these things of how to see.
It's not religion.
It's not science.
It's not politics.
It's not paradigms.
It's not the New Age.
It's not aliens and spaceships.
It's not.
It's not the Platians.
It's not conspiracy.
It's not reptilians.
It's not, it's not, it's just not.
We need to stop with this, okay?
This is a toy.
Let's use it like one.
We'll draw pictures with it and check them out and test them
and link them and play with them together naturally,
openly, freely, encouragingly, mutually,
with and for each other and our future and life on Earth.
The purpose is what makes the Messiah able to abstract
the entire intelligence of everyone around them
and magnify it into fire, into a star of intelligence
that can shine back on their friend's family.
Every family produces a star like this,
it's supposed to lead them all, right?
And every family shoots them down for the cultures
that despise them.
Raise your children up.
I'll lift you up with everything I've got.
I would, I don't need anything in return.
You've given me it all.
If you want to give something in return,
by all means please do share my work,
send a small domination if it's affordable and comfortable for you.
You can find the form on organelle.org.
But sharing my work or thinking about it and surpassing me,
discussing it, that's what I, the pay I want, please.
More than anything, that will pay everyone.
So fast we'll start paying each other so much money
we'll stop doing really ignorant things that we're doing.
We don't even know what they are yet
because we need to stop doing them long enough to find out together.
So let's do that.
We can play the remora game, but let's not become sharks.
Let's play the remora game and become pods of whales.
Because whales are immune to sharks.
Sharks stay away from whales.
A whale with a slap of the tail.
Bye bye shark. Here's the other thing.
You get a messiah around you?
The mimics freak out and they start fleeing.
Which means the people who are false, all the fashion stuff,
all of the false promises, false sexuality, false intimacy, false democracy,
false war, false prisons, false courtrooms, false law,
it just deflates and lifts you up.
Which is what it was supposed to do.
They lied. They made a trap.
With all the things that we treasure with justice, beauty, love, fellowship, communion,
intelligence, wisdom, insight, adoration, reverence, mutuality.
They made a trap.
They sucked all that out of us because we wanted it.
They stole it first and then they sucked our potentials for it out of us
and sold us back toys that break our minds and bodies and souls and liberty.
No more. You and me together from now on.
Remember to underst-
hand.
It's more in the little categories that keep trying to demand that you belong to,
reproduce, convert people to, stop converting people to things that aren't you and me.
Don't convert them to fear.
Don't convert them to quotations.
Don't convert them to gurus.
Don't convert them to psychics.
Don't convert them to members of your paradigm.
Stop converting each other.
Let's learn what we can become.
I'm with you.
Stand by me.
We're going beyond the stars.
Bye-bye for now.
