Hello, everybody. Welcome. This is one of my favorite trees. Of course, all the trees
are my favorite trees. Every single tree is my favorite. Every single one. To live on a
world as paradisical as this one. What an incredible blessing. What an astonishing gift.
It's surprising and ironic that our people have found ways to consistently obscure and counterfeit,
destroy, lie about the great blessing of this world. For the sake of things so trivial that no
one would ever allow them to intrude on their awareness or intention or mind at all. If we
could actually sense the profound depth of the beauty and intelligence of all of the living
beings of our world and the vast webs of their anciently conserved relationships.
Everything we might hope to find in space or in heaven is right here at all times,
and yet most of us will never glimpse it in our lifetimes. Or if we should glimpse it,
it will be a brief glimpse and will quickly disappear thereafter. The cultures we inherit
our mindsets from, they are in our time extremely toxic. It's probable they've been quite toxic for a
very long time, most of them, with some few exceptions, we might imagine at least, among
some indigenous cultures, not all of them. And not all of the timelines of all indigenous cultures,
either for cultures transform over time, embodying different priorities and principles as they
develop isn't entirely the right word because develop implies progress. And often there's some
kind of strange regress or devolution rather than progress. What does devolution really mean?
Hmm. That sounded like a Cooper's Hawk, or possibly a red tail, but it is neither. It's a
Steller's Jay. Yeah, he's right here. He knows me. He knows I'm carrying peanuts. A treat.
A protonaceous treat.
Look at this glorious tree.
Probably 40 or 50 years old, I'm guessing.
Something got a hold of humanity a long time ago, and the ancients were aware of the danger of
this thing. It goes by various names, evil, weddico, representational consciousness, demons.
Something began to develop in the space that was left over when our people's
relationships with their own origin, interiority,
and the world of supernal intelligences, the worlds of supernal intelligences,
when those things began to break down those relationships.
If you were to imagine children who were raised by benevolent adult humans
until they were, I don't know, two or three perhaps, and then the adults disappeared.
And then there were stories. There became stories about them.
He cashed that peanut in his craw, so that he or she could get another one.
It looks pretty molty.
Yeah, it's molting, getting ready to molt. I think that's Tohu and that's Bohu, I'm pretty sure.
Tohu's looking a little scroungy these days.
Why? Why? I know these two. I know them pretty well.
Haven't seen them for a bit, though.
There are strange stories of wars in heaven, which seems like a very bizarre idea, actually,
from what I understand of the upper or the superior worlds, which are not material,
in the sense ours is. They have some other primordial foundation that is very difficult
to understand even when one experiences it directly,
partly because it's outside of time and participates in the lives of all beings,
the minds of all beings. Its foundation is a kind of transcendental unity,
and to imagine a war in such a unity seems strange, and yet
there are boundaries
at the edges of which conflict becomes
a significant and overt. One can imagine a very gentle conflict that evolves over time,
and at a specific boundary, the time is faster, and so the conflict is more severe,
if this makes sense. If you just imagine shades of gray that tend toward black,
and then suddenly there's an edge, and across that edge there is white, and then the white
fades off into gray, it's at that edge where the temporality is different, right?
Or you can imagine two nations that over time, you know, they have conflicts and...
Hey. But at some certain time, right, for four or five years, the conflict becomes,
it could be very gentle, right? There could be commerce, and discussion, and so on.
But then at a specific time, the conflict becomes overt, right? It gets intensifies.
And becomes like a war. And during the war, the activity is very frenetic. Pace is very frenetic,
severe, shocking, explosive.
And perhaps I guess it is possible that something resembling this
takes place in some dimension of
the worlds where the divine intelligence is dwell.
And it's neither true that there are divine intelligences, nor that there are no divine
intelligences. Neither of these things are true. In fact, what there is
cannot be said, cannot be spoken.
In truth, the capacity for language to encompass the real,
it's profoundly limited. Far, far more than we imagine, even when we hear the words I say
and think about them, and what they mean.
There is nothing I can say about that creature.
The really, the truth of language is so modestly provisional, or intensely provisional,
is actually what I meant.
That although it can point toward things, it cannot encompass them or present them.
And this is why both of the statements about divine beings are untrue, or at least this
is one way of understanding how they are untrue.
But divine beings can emerge to human experience, and it's my strong suspicion
that the origins of the minds that we have today lie buried in prehistory, in a time when
we were the symbiotic companions of intelligences that are not directly embodied,
but that influence the forms, natures, faculties, and behaviors of all embodied life.
And then there was some kind of a crisis, or a series of crises over time.
Where these relationships were lost, transformed, counterfeited, represented,
particularly in language, particularly in books, when writing became possible.
And thus we became extremely confused both about our own nature and about the history of our people,
our species.
And this process, I believe, is reiterated in each human life uniquely,
completely and yet partially at the same time.
But it happens in childhood, primarily, and thus we forget it. We forget as we acquire
the minds of modern adults, we forget.
And then we are introduced to knowledge, language, mathematics, analysis, logic,
reason, rationality, and these overcome the comparatively delicate faculties that might otherwise
develop. In some spiritual traditions there is talk of a second birth,
essentially a reincarnation while we are yet alive.
And I have experienced something like this in my own life that is as mysterious as it is compelling
to me. And it was a long process, and in fact the process still proceeds.
And it was during that adventure that many of the perspectives and ideas that I
share from and explore with you were born. But just like my original childhood,
the intense understanding and awareness, the direct participation in and with divine
intelligences, it faded over time. And I became again bereft of the faculties, the astonishing
faculties that accompany companionship with the divine beings.
Perhaps I have paid a terrible price for that adventure. I'm not entirely sure.
It does seem to be forbidden.
And there may be good reasons why it's forbidden.
Reasons. What is it that forbids it? Is perhaps a more interesting question.
Who is doing the forbidding? When we say it is forbidden, forbidden by what?
Forbidden by who?
It is possible
in some states of inspiration, enthusiasm, or ecstasy to break through the shell of our adultness.
And our
exile, our evacuation from our original nature as beings.
It is as if there are many shells within us that hide this original nature and the faculties that
accompany it from our moment to moment experience most of the time while we are awake.
Some of these shells recede or soften or become permeable when we dream, not all of them.
Others of them recede or become permeable when we love, when we adore someone or something.
And this is perhaps why love, part of why love is so
celebrated.
But there's another reason and that is that if the fundamental nature of being
lies not in separation but in union, in communion, in unity,
then love is the re-recognition, the remembrance, or actually it's funny the re-recognition.
You can see in the word itself, recognition, to cognize again that which was lost.
It's not incognition, it's not to suddenly cognize, it's not just cognition.
To recognize is to remember, to remember, to draw back into membership together.
So there are all these hints in our language about the things I am concerned with or
I'm interested in at the moment.
And I am struggling because now it is a long time since I had my adventure and
the sort of waves of transformation
that overcame me during the adventure continued to pulse over time.
Like a heartbeat growing a little softer and a little slower as time proceeded
until eventually the pulses fade from memory until they arise again.
Because the interval between them has become so long and the noise surrounding them
drowns them out, the noise of what? Well actual noise but also the noise of
reason and rationality and logic and conception, language.
Now of course the older languages carry some magic within them,
some of the original magic so to speak. But what is this magic? What is it?
It is the flavor or the fragrance of truth but it too can be counterfeited and by truth I mean
the truth of our original nature and
the promise
encompassed by our incarnation as human beings or as plants or as animals,
living places, worlds, stars, galaxies.
There are really no things
and yet the objects that humans create artificially are the most thing like
because they are the furthest from being.
And they represent the faculties and behaviors and skillfulness
of beings just as the smartphone on which I record this video does.
But they also compete for survival and reproduction and attention.
In the human cognizium they compete and they are winning which means that life on earth is in jeopardy.
And our human intelligence is not merely in jeopardy, it's falling off a cliff
or a cascade of cliffs, each one more steep and severe than the previous one.
Here are the geese.
They have conflict.
But they are also communal.
When they are together they can hitchhike on each other sensitivities,
produces a superposition of sensing
in which
senses are shared and magnified
among the cohorts and the sub-cohorts producing otherwise impossible sensitivity
that protects them from predators and danger and also alerts them to opportunities.
Our own people are like this but again most of these aspects of our humanity have been
counterfeited, represented, sold back to us in broken form.
I am respectful of the living beings,
all of whom I see as peoples, just like our people are a people, the goose people are a people.
What I do and don't do with one of them, they all learn about.
It's the same with the trees and the bees, the birds, the sky, the stars.
Stars.
Interesting that we call famous humans stars.
But among the stars once there were certain stars,
the ones that moved, which of course in our modern
lexicons we call planets.
Those ones were seen as messengers
and angels.
Angels.
What an astonishing topic that is and how unlike our our modern narratives, descriptions, ideas,
images, these beings must be.
In the same way that the word raven tells us nothing of the creature it refers to,
the word angel conveys only the slightest hint
of that toward which the nomenclature points.
But this much I will say there are, it points toward
experienceable relations. Let's call them this.
In a way so astonishing that the slightest hint of it would obliterate all of science and religion
entirely and leave nothing but smoking remains in its wake.
Smoldering, detritus of representational consciousness is all that would be left.
This is a beautiful canopy.
I've known many of these trees
peripherally and directly for
20 years or so. I remember when I first encountered them I was astonished.
For I'd rarely seen cypresses and cedars and huge eucalyptuses.
This being is the entrance tree. How many souls has this tree greeted and know?
Many, many and it's probably 100 plus year lifetime.
2021, 1921.
Well, perhaps I will end my meanderings here for the moment.
But I encourage those of you who are listening
to ask me questions and I will answer them if they're good in an upcoming video.
If I get enough, which seems unlikely, but even if I get one or two I will respond to them.
So yeah, send me your questions and if you have more than one question feel free to
list your questions and I will try to take them up in a future video.
I'm so grateful to all of you who participate with me through this medium. Most of you I don't know.
And yet somehow we are known to each other.
Somehow we are connected.
Thank you for joining me today. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
Bye for now.
