Hello everybody, I'm here again at the San Francisco Botanical Gardens today and I'm
at the old English walnut tree, Jungland's Regia in Latin and this tree is, as you can
see, it is riddled with woodpecker drillings and I suspect that many of
these are quite old and it's astonishing because they go all the way
down to the base of this tree. You can see a few, right, even down here. So at
some point in history, and I think it's a long time ago because I have never seen
a woodpecker at this tree. This tree contained probably insects that the woodpeckers were
feeding on and it's astonishing. The tree is absolutely tattooed with these little holes
and it's a gorgeous and regal organism that I love. It's absolutely beautiful and I don't
know its age. You can see there's a birdhouse there. We have a bumblebee, which I've seen
many of around lately. Not so many honeybees, however. The two primary hives here, one of them
appears to be completely deserted and the other appears to have gone into some kind of state of
dormancy, which is very strange. I've never seen this before. There are only one or two bees
around the entrance to this hive, which is in that gigantic entrance cypress. It's in a crack in
the front of that cypress. And the funnel web spider that lives below the hive near the base,
the hive is about eight feet up in a specific crack in that tree. There's a funnel web spider
in the base, but it's hard for me to tell whether that spider is still there. The hive in the cypress
outside the park, outside the main gate, has been deserted for some time. I don't know what happened,
to it. Though both of these hives have been relatively severely affected by the diseases that
are affecting hives around the world, but particularly in the United States, that involve a virus,
and also a mite that infects grubs, I think, while they are still in the cells. The mite is called
varroa, and this causes the bees to be born. It causes a variety of problems for the bees,
I suspect. But one of the results is that bees are born either with defunct wings, wings that don't
work, shriveled wings, wingless, something like this. This gentleman here, Fred, I was just having a
conversation with. He's, hey, one of the landmarks of our neighborhood, and he was talking with me
about a man named Franklin Merrill Wolfe, a mystic who left Stanford because he had become too
sensitive for the city and its noise, and particularly its electrical pollution, a thing most of us
pay little attention to. We who are now buried in Wi-Fi and 4G and soon-to-be 5G networks,
that most corporations will claim have no significant or sensible effect upon our bodies.
I see this claim as relatively impossible, and while I'm not a conspiracy theorist, I am aware
that of the 35 trillion cells in our bodies, half of which are animal cells,
the membranes of cells are profoundly sensitive electromagnetic
gateways. And cell membranes represent an intelligence of impossible complexity. Our cells
themselves are capable of performing unimaginably sophisticated filtering transmission and production
activities with hundreds of thousands or millions of substances. They fold proteins
and produce all kinds of metabolic activity that is fundamentally sensitive to electromagnetic
disturbance. So it seems to me impossible that buried in the magnetic noise of our modern
electronic world, that our cells could possibly be unaffected by this, without me being able to
say precisely how it is they are affected. One imagines humans attempting to have a conversation,
however, a coherent conversation in a place where thousands of diesel engines are echoing,
and the impossibility of communicating in an environment like that. And I suspect that
in the domain of electromagnetism, our cells are suffering something similar.
When science looks for harm, and first of all, science however dependable it may be is very young,
when it looks for harm, it tends to look in one or two places. And there are many places
that our science is not yet sophisticated enough to examine, let alone detect damage.
Though I suspect that one day researchers will discover that electromagnetic noise is harmful
to cellular organisms, which are pretty much all of the organisms we know about.
And I live in a place now where there are, you know, 80 five-bar wi-fi signals
where I'm trying to sleep, right, where I live. And part of the reason I come here
is to participate directly in the old living networks. Now humans have never really discovered
anything other than molecular communications among plants and animals. However, it should be clear
that when sunlight shines on living things, and they reflect that light, they are transforming it.
So all of this that you see here, it doesn't have to emit or create
electromagnetic radiation in order to affect a medium in which signaling and reception is possible.
It need only absorb and reflect certain bandwidths, which all of things that are alive,
including this one, do. Although this one also communicates via sound.
This is a scrub j, what we call a scrub j. We also have, I normally have food with me,
but today I didn't bring any.
I'm not actually sure if that was visible. It's hard to aim my camera.
So, of course, everything here is communicating. Here's probably that J's mate.
Everything here is alive and is communicating in ways that don't require wires and ways that don't
require high and medium frequency EM radiation, like our devices do.
It's funny, a little while ago someone I work with sent me a message that
their browser had been compromised and they couldn't use it on their phone.
And in order to solve that problem for them, I had to have them turn off
their Wi-Fi reception and their cell phone reception for a moment
so that I could reset a couple of things on their phone.
And when that was done, the problem was solved.
There are forms of signaling and reception so foreign to our modern thought
that we'd consider them to be supernatural.
And this is a rather strange idea, this idea of supernaturalness.
I'm not sure when it was invented or where it came from.
But the meaning of the word nature depends on how we're using it and what our
agendas and priorities are. If we want to talk about spooky metaphysics,
then we'll pretend that nature is something like the aspects of the natural world
with which we are commonly familiar.
And then we can say, well there are these other aspects that we're not familiar with
that exist outside that boundary that we'll call supernatural.
And we think of them as having to do with something metaphysical,
with spirit, with the invisible, with the world invisible to the eyes
and ideas with which we ordinarily approach it.
Surely everything that is, is an expression of nature and is thus natural from one perspective.
And thus people can argue, well our cell phones are no less natural than these trees.
Because from that perspective of definition,
it makes rational sense to say this.
Yet it is not so.
For those of us who see nature as alive
and the products of us peculiar
tool using representational cognitives, we who make machines.
And machines and organisms including us are in competition
even though it's an artificial competition.
It's a competition that arises only because
we insist upon this.
Human beings, human societies insist on producing objects and technologies
that directly compete against our own intelligence, minds, and survival.
Now if we say that nature is everything that is and everything that is, is natural,
then, and only then, in my mind, can we say that machines and the things that humans make
are natural.
I prefer, and I think it's a very important distinction to make,
to think of the object produce of our cultures as artificial.
Man-made.
Now although we are animals, we exist in a strange between place in a kind of limbo
between nature and representation.
And if you leave this garden, when I leave this garden, I will enter a world of paved streets
and boxes, cars and machines, electronic transmissions and signals,
none of which are healthy for me to be exposed to or immersed in, and all of which
are competing against me primarily for survival, for reproductive rights,
or for something that simulates reproductive rights.
Cars do not reproduce, but humans reproduce them.
And if you look at a city block, you'll see a thing that resembles
a cell totally compromised by viruses.
You'll see this paved terrain surrounding the block, you'll see cars lined up all around
the block. They have something that resembles faces.
Then there's another piece of pavement, the sidewalk.
And there might be a little bit of living stuff, some grass or whatever,
then there's the structures of our houses.
I'm near a transmitter and it's, I can hear the hum of it, right?
You can hear the electricity transforming, literally, there's a transformer in there,
and I can hear, I can hear that electromagnetic activity because it is so overpowered compared
to anything around me. There are electromagnetic signals all around us.
The sun produces light, which is an electromagnetic phenomenon, but it's different
in its frequencies than the lights produced by our,
just looking, you can see here, these pollinating bodies,
right, which have fallen probably from this fir tree, and you can hear the call
of a hawk, and there was a crow chasing it, and perhaps you can even see the moon.
The hawk has landed in a fir tree in front of me.
Our world of conveniences comes with lethal costs,
that our societies are unprepared to evaluate, let alone cope with.
And many of the bodies that we depend upon to evaluate technologies are biased,
because they are funded by the people who want us to adopt them.
Genetically modified organisms, cell phones,
gasoline, distribution networks, combustion engines, all of these things,
and many others that I'll not hear name,
are the products of our supercultures and corporations.
And there's another domain of transmission and reception
that I think is important to consider, the domain of information, ideas, evaluations, analyses,
projections, predictions, concepts, language. Our species is unique in that we are formally
representational cognitives. This, coupled with our uniquely structured hands, changed us.
And we don't really know the story of this change. We don't know
its players, though it is presumed by most of us, that evolution drove the changes that resulted
in the animal we are today. We are still, as a species, quite ignorant. Sciences we know it
dependable, though it may be in the ways that it's dependable, is profoundly new.
We're talking about, depending on how you look at it, three to five generations,
a veritable picosecond in terms of evolutionary time. We've only known about DNA for
probably less than a hundred years, and the theory of evolution itself
is still very fresh, very new. So we should presume that 96% of the story is missing,
and we're prone to misinterpret the four percent we have our hands on,
as we often misinterpret things, that we've got a very small perspective about,
a very limited amount of data on.
Because our species is kind of egoic in a way, we're prone to make broad
assertions, predictions, and evaluations from very small amounts of data.
Now, granted, in the past, say, 50 years, and with the onset of computational technology,
our grasp on data has increased dramatically. But let's be clear, it still represents far less than
shockingly less than 1% of what's going on. And what's going on is so staggeringly profound
that in the entire lifetime of our species, we're unlikely to get more than a three to five percent
grasp on it. So most of what's going on is hidden.
It wasn't my intention to talk today about the things I've thus far touched on,
though our relationship with information was something that I was
considering speaking about. Because today, in the same way where our bodies are inundated
with unseen electronic signals, hearing these beautiful bird calls.
These days, we are inundated with information in a way not dissimilar to how our bodies in cities
are buried in unseen electronic noise.
And while we've always been exchangers of information, what's going on today represents
an entirely new scale of the compromise and manipulation of what I will refer to as the
human cognizium, the living network of all human minds on the world.
That network is affected, profoundly affected by our transmission and reception technologies and
by the purposes for which we deploy and employ them. And I would argue that the vast portion
of that activity is toxic, and a huge portion of it is simply false, or rather is coercive.
When we're born, we possess a form, a kind of intelligence that's capable
of undergoing profound transformation when it's exposed to language and culture.
It's capable of uptake, of taking up and formulating its own relationship
with language, with ideas, with concepts, with culture, with norms, with evaluation,
with authority, with judgment. And this process is invisible to most of us,
though some of us make our living or are habituated to explore it,
in a way not dissimilar to how humans may one day, if we survive long enough, explore space.
Though to be honest, I would rather see us explore this world, because in my view,
this world is a living library of the intelligences
that express the nature and transcendence of space-time.
I noticed the other day as I walked past this stump, an unusual phenomenon.
There's been a raptor here, and it looks like it was feeding on a pigeon.
I'm nearly sure that's what we see here.
And in some ways, this reminds me of what happens to that astonishingly flexible
aspect of intelligence that we are born with,
when it's exposed to language and culture, which complexify it by dividing it.
Our cerebral cortex is divided hemispherically, though there are other ways we can understand
the complexity, the complex anatomy of our brains. And the cortex is only a relatively
superficial layer, yet it's profoundly impactful, and its division is profoundly impactful for us.
Although both hemispheres participate in most of the activities
that comprise our, what I'll call our cognition, our sentience,
our left hemisphere is profoundly transformed when we are exposed to language and
very active when we are speaking, so that once I begin speaking, my brain changes.
And if I'm listening to language, my brain changes. Whereas if I'm silent,
even for a moment,
my body and my brain change.
Not so very long ago, I was in the,
I was in the old forest at Muir Woods. A friend of mine kindly transported me there.
Something that required technology, and cars, and even transmission technologies to accomplish,
though I might have merely walked there.
And in Muir Woods, there was this incredible silence.
And in that silence, I felt rejuvenated.
For a moment.
I also recall a time when there was a vast power outage that lasted a few days.
I think in the 1990s here in San Francisco, and
that was long before there was wireless technologies.
And yet again, I felt in my viscerally this incredible silence.
And there's a signal that's hard to ignore.
Signal we call a siren.
It's the only thing we call that.
Sirens were thought to be spirits that inhabited an island
whose high-pitched, we imagine whose high-pitched sounds
drew sailors to their deaths or drove them mad.
There are, of course, myths about this that many of us have heard something of.
These are salvia flowers.
And unbeknownst to many, let's see here, there we go,
unbeknownst to many, you can draw one of these flowers out
from the cup of tissues that hold it
and take nectar directly from the flower.
And it's delicious and sage-like.
So today we live in a world where we're inundated with signals
and most of them are untrustworthy.
A lot of them are untrustworthy, whereas those that we encounter in living places
are of an entirely different kind.
It's not that we'll never encounter
conflict or disguise.
Nature is full of things that emulate or disguise themselves.
And in fact, animals for defense often emulate or disguise or look like other things.
The rattlesnake, if you look at its face, it kind of has three faces.
One that looks like a rattlesnake, one that looks like a turtle,
and a smaller one that looks like a mouse.
Praying mantises and other creatures have eye spots on their wings.
So that they can flare up and look like the face of a creature much larger than they actually are.
But this kind of thing is not the same sort of deception that we get from the news,
media, and our common interactions with each other in modern culture.
Our minds are an environment,
and it seems to me something has invaded that environment.
And the sign of this invasion,
is representation.
To make a secondary thing that is not itself relation
and is transmissible, encodable,
highly structured, sophisticated, complex, conceptual.
Here there are many bird sounds.
Sounds so unlike the machines that we're surrounded by.
I find particularly disturbing machines that sound like creatures.
There's a few places in the park where they've installed speakers that produce cricket sounds.
I find those deeply disturbing, and I can tell the difference very easily.
As animals, I think we're hungry for the signals and transmissions and
relationships in living places.
Machines cannot provide those.
Simulating those things is unhealthy at best and catastrophically misguided at worst.
So I'm very concerned about all of these things.
But what I was intending to speak about today is minds.
If I say the phrase a mind,
I pretend to use a noun to indicate a thing,
a separable, distinguishable thing that we presume is possessed locally.
For example, I might say I have a mind.
Now this is a simple ordinary everyday language where I might say I have something on my mind,
as if my mind were a table on which envelopes containing things could be found.
Many of our metaphors in English are quite bizarre and not much like those things to which
they refer, and this is part of how language and concepts and representation can become dangerously
misguided. Although I feel relatively comfortable saying I have a mind,
we might say I might say like I have a mind to walk down to the gardens, meaning
that my current mind state is oriented in a purposeful way to accomplish a goal.
The language is not terribly deceptive, but neither is it terribly accurate,
and that's casual language. When we speak formally, we have to be much more careful.
But what I want to, I'm just watching a hawk,
what I want to speak about is the idea that our minds are our possessions,
and I think this is wrong. We formed minds in concert with a family of some kind,
right, whether it was our family, or even if we were adopted, or grew up in an orphanage,
or were pressed from our homes into some kind of boarding school or other environment.
We formed minds in contexts with many others, and the nature of our minds is fundamentally social.
If in our culture we want to punish people, ordinarily we isolate them.
And there are varying degrees of isolation from modest to severe,
with what we call solitary confinement being the ultimate punishment,
other than physical torture or death, murder.
I've always thought that our systems of justice, what we call justice, are bizarre.
I've thought they're based on concepts that have nothing to do with resolving fundamental
problems or wrongdoing. Instead, they seem to magnify and elicit further wrongdoing,
in which all of us become complicit, either by formal agreement or passive agreement.
I do not trust anything about our legal systems. They've always seemed to me to be completely
misfounded. One cannot pay for a crime. Crimes are not based on accounting. They're not banking
systems, right and wrong. You can't put, like, right in the bank and get interest on it,
or, you know, wrong in the bank and lose interest, or there's just there's no way to pay for a crime.
And this idea to me seems completely absurd and hopelessly antiquated,
and the starting place of all kinds of problems, because it fundamentally
misconstrues the nature of relationships, and produces a bizarre artificial overlay
that we become infected with as children, so that for the rest of our lives, our minds become,
for many of us, sort of broken courtrooms. And that's a terrifying faith that no human being
should ever be subjected to. Yes, there is wrongdoing. Yes, there is kindness and good.
But accountants and lawyers and judges and courts and prisons are not the proper authorities
to determine such things to us. So I wonder if I can actually get a recording of this sound.
Let's see. I think I might be able to.
Yeah.
The sound of electricity being transmitted and transformed.
It's a terrible sound, really.
Something we might refer to as consciousness is being transformed by our exposure to media and
information. And I can envision ways of managing this process and
very intelligently structuring and engaging in it that are radically different and far more
beautiful than those to which we are exposed in the yet early days of what we're referring to as
the Internet. And one of the things that fascinates me is that I know humans well enough to know,
but they never really invent anything. They simulate things they discovered in nature or
derived from the observation of or participation in nature so that I know there's an intelligent
network that we're embedded in that we participate in unconsciously most of the time
that makes the Internet look like nat feces or even a strangely parasitic disease.
We have the capacity to establish something far more beautiful, intelligent,
and healthy than what we're currently subjected to. And one of my dreams is that one day we may
do so. And I have some models of what that might look like. And they're
shockingly profound. At least to me, of course, they are my models, so I like them. I made them.
It's a big job, but it's not as big as the work we'll have to do if we don't
do something smarter and more beautiful than what we have been doing.
Because what we have been doing is changing the nature of what it means to be human
or to have a mind. But one of the things I wanted to just touch upon is that we form minds together
unless we are isolated. And technologies that isolate or factinate our people are technologies
that damage, inhibit, or cruelly distort our capacity for human intelligence and beauty,
wonder, awe, learning, discovery, understanding, love.
It's my experience that we form minds together
and we form them according to our understandings of our roles.
In the contexts we can sense and become familiar with. And so if we are to have a chance to know
the profound potential and opportunity associated with our human birth, we must establish contexts
in which the unimaginable depth and excellence of our potential
is nurtured, recognized, called forth,
rewarded,
and fertilized, distributed, celebrated. We have the capacity to do this. The technologies we possess
today can easily accomplish these things. But right now they're largely owned by parasitic
momentums with agendas whose outcomes are fearsome and dark.
We live in a sense in the dark ages
of the onset of computational technology.
And yet it's possible that from this darkness new forms of light can emerge, new forms of illumination.
And one of my lifelong interests has been to understand
both how things got this way. What are the origins of these problems
and situations in our history and in the evolution of human consciousness?
And how can they be addressed?
And I can respond very meaningfully to such questions at length, though today it's primarily my goal
to just birdwalk a bit together around some of these topics.
I think it's very important to understand that we don't so much possess minds
as it is that we assemble them for purposes. And those purposes are framed to us
by context and our understanding however primitive it may be, however crude it may be,
of our role.
When the context is extremely narrow or limited, so too
our awareness, intelligence, and consciousness will become narrow and limited.
And you can see the evidence of this everywhere around us in the modern information economy
where corporations vie to harvest the attention of the masses by going after the low-hanging fruit
of outrage, divisive argument, factionation, false assertions, fear tactics,
and the occasional frosting of something either visually attractive, sexually attractive,
or photographs of nature.
I'm not sure we can survive, I'm not sure nature will survive the necessity of recording and
transmitting billions of photographs per day, preserving those, backing them up, copying them.
Everyone is carrying an extremely sophisticated photographic equipment
in their communications devices now. This is a recent addition to my own life for many years
I resisted it and I'm still resistant to it philosophically.
And functionally, I don't take a lot of photographs.
I think everyone else pretty much has that covered. But what I'm aware of that most people don't think
about is that those photographs are competing against the things we're imaging for survival
and the photographs will likely win. The energy required to take, produce, transmit,
back up, copy, modify, these photographs is staggering.
And like the onset of cryptocurrencies, nobody's doing the math about the energy consumption yet.
They don't realize that the things we're photographing can obliterate the things we're photographing,
but they can and they often do. And as time proceeds this will become obvious.
Even though at the moment it's a relatively radical idea.
So to the information that we're so busy gathering in unintelligent systems
and catastrophically misguided agendas is obliterating the possibility of human intelligence.
Certainly on the broad scale, though there will always be some exceptions,
there's enough diversity among the population, but some people will be resistant and others will
become intelligent by studying the problem and learn how to modify it, at least in their own
lives, if not socially. I prefer that we do it socially so that everybody gets a shot at sustainable
intelligence, sustainable roles, meaningful roles, so that the precious gift of our human
birth and life will not be wasted serving machines and representations and ideas
because unworthy of even momentary consideration, let alone implementation or preservation in
cultures or commerce. It may be that catastrophe will be required to help us
have a chance to restart the processes that currently assail our humanity,
our spirit, our essence,
the beautiful bases of our existence that are truly worthy of reverence and awe,
exploration and discovery.
But for now,
the world is at war.
It's a war with an array of invaders that most of us have not yet learned to recognize
because our lexicons don't have the concepts necessary to recognize them.
But please understand me when I say that human minds comprise a network
that network is an environment and in that environment
there is something like Darwinian competition
going on to dominate the transports that connect our minds
and to obtain reproductive capacities within those transports.
And that war, however invisible, is affecting every one of us.
Our families, our histories, it's changing the meaning of history
as well as determining the likely outcomes of futures.
We must learn to remember how to form intelligent minds,
contexts and societies, purposes and activities together.
It's insufficient for us to be passive participants
in networks whose primary produce is atrocity.
And we cannot expect the societies and networks to presently exist to transform
because when threatened they will most likely simply double down
on the structures they've already implemented.
So it falls to us to invent together, whether momentarily or consistently
contexts and purposes and agreements from which new kinds of societies can emerge.
And this is my dream and my hope.
But even this was not the goal I had when I began this conversation.
My goal was simply to highlight something very peculiar,
that minds are not local possessions.
We form them together, when we come together they transform
because when we come together we establish and change, we establish and modulate
contexts and purposes and when we modulate contexts and purposes
the roles that we derive transform.
Everyone has seen a group of people in relatively common conversation
go for example to a bar, have a few drinks and everyone turns into a comedian.
You change the context, you add some intoxicants, people transform.
We can do this without intoxicants because we are humans or animals hungry for something I'll
call relational eros, the eros of relating with other minds that are both fascinating and fascinated.
And this is one of the key pivots noticing this.
This is one of the key pivots that can allow us to understand how to transform
the contexts within which we are currently engaged.
We can see what we've adopted as replacements for deep authentic relationships
and how those were adopted and how they work and by understanding those things more deeply
I believe that we can produce something better than intoxicants,
something as compelling as addictions are
without having to poison ourselves.
Something as compelling as play was when we were children
and yet as effective as science is at participating in or transforming the mechanics of a situation.
There's people here in different roles.
One of them is talking about technology and systems and email.
There's an elderly couple who are just enjoying the terrain and bird watching
and another elderly couple who are getting some exercise.
And I am getting some perfume from this hummingbird sage plant,
one of my favorite plants.
I just love the scent of it.
There's some mushrooms here.
It's beautiful in the garden.
Right outside this extraordinary amounts of traffic, electronic, physical,
informational, rushing around madly
with much noise and little positive effect.
There's so many phenomena in nature that I see that the camera absolutely cannot
capture. This is one of them.
There's an incredible play of light on the strandy
fur of this tree
as it coruscates in the breeze and it's exquisitely beautiful
and the camera may capture something
but there are so many features of what my eyes can do and my eyes can do different things with
this phenomenon not just one but the camera will never capture
and this is part of how we are deceived by the machines we've become the servants of.
I'd like to see us invert that relationship because I don't think we're going to get rid of
machines and even language is incredibly dangerous we're not going to get rid of language.
What we've got to do instead is become very intelligent about understanding
the threats and opportunities implicit in these two technologies both of which are
representational. Language is cognitively representational and machines are physically
representational. These things are very very dangerous.
Right now we cannot tell whether life on earth will survive them or if life does whether we will
the atmospheric envelope of earth is vulnerable and one of the best metaphors for earth
that I've ever encountered is that of a cell
if that membrane is damaged or destroyed everything here dies
but the humans are the most one of the most delicate of the organisms here all the complex
animals are delicate and the the complexly conserved ecologies which all depend on relationships
extremely delicate. Life itself is opportunistic and resilient
but even given that it's quite possible that the progress that our species claims to have made
could result either in our own annihilation or the annihilation of most of the complex life on
this world and what that would mean would be that our entire history it would change the
meaning of our history if this happens right it will it will transform all of the the human activity
that we think of as beautiful and intelligence beautifully intelligent it will transform that
activity and render it to have led to something catastrophic but the same is true if we make a
wise move if we can do something beautiful and intelligent together in our generation
and it's possible to to accomplish something so astonishing and beautiful that it preserves
the anciently evolved ecologies it preserves our human existence and thus renders the struggles
and battles of our history meaningful yeah so all of the things that we do today transform the
meaning of history as well as the future and this is a fact that gives me hope inspiration
wonder creativity and awe for I belong to life
and I am not a misanthrope I'm an anthropile I believe in human beings
even though the activities of our supercultures are terrifying and clearly abysmally misguided
and wrong we are perhaps the greatest single investment the living world has ever made
though again the banking terminology is not the right metaphor
we are charged with astonishing potential
but it remains to us to determine whether that potential will result in beauty or tragedy
I'm on the side of beauty
and I know you're with me in that sense
thank you for joining me
