Akayo Kaki took a chunk of venison out into wild place to make an offering for
the animals who can often have a very difficult time surviving in the extremely
cold winter conditions. And what you're seeing right now is where he left the
chunk of meat. You can see also some tracks where he placed the camera. And by
the way since it's near rush hour where I live will be some machine noise in the
background here. So you can see what's probably what probably was prior to
Ryan's arrival. An undisturbed area of fresh snow. Cameras pointing
approximately northeast. And I thought it might be interesting to share some of
the commentary that we have in observing these animals. So this animal
arrives. It's got the meat to its left and it's checking out the terrain with
its right eye. Another animal arrives on that bird's right. They go through some
dances. Notice that the bird isn't interested until the second bird arrives.
Then it begins getting some food. This kind of demonstrates a communal feeding
pattern. When the bird was there by itself it could have been taking advantage
of that but it wasn't waited till another bird came. Okay so now there's been
some time passed. Now we've got a classic situation here of one bird feeding, one
bird looking out. Here comes the first coyote. The coyotes got. Okay so what
happens right there is really important. Coyote comes in from, let's see, it's got
its left eye toward the scene. It's coming in from camera right. Comes in
behind, doesn't approach the meat directly. Its first approach is to the
tracks that lead to the meat and the moment it gets a hint of that human scent
it bolts. Right actually it's having a startled reaction, an uncontrolled
reaction, an instinctual reaction to that scent in Ryan's tracks. And now it's
scanning the area carefully. It's recovered from the startle and testing
the snow there. More snow testing. It's getting older data from under the snow.
It's finding out about stuff that happened a little while ago. Not paying
much attention to the meat. Very much attention to the terrain. Almost none to
the meat. This animal is skittish. It looks a little hungry and notice that it's
tail. The last part of its tail is either missing some fur or it's compacted
together. Animal is carefully checking the, oh just noticed the camera. That was
the camera startle. And it's not really concerned about the magpies. It's just
kind of doing a traditional chasing that is a sort of trigger. When it sees that
behavior around the meat it triggers an instinctual response. Here the animal has
actually gone into a trance. You can tell it's frozen. This animal is skittish.
There it just woke up. Just realized, oh wait I'm in the actual world here. It
appears to be scanning what I'm going to guess is a tree line. And it seems to be
concerned that this is a trap. It seems to have a knowledge about humans. It may
have been shot in the past or seen other coyotes shot. This animal is on threat.
It's hyper-vigilant. Gets a whiff of Ryan's spore. Runs, you know, startles
again. Almost runs away complete. Like goes quite a distance that time. But for
some reason it's still interested in this whole situation. And it doesn't
necessarily seem to be about the meat. Notice it's not looking at the meat. It's
attending the magpies. It's attending the tree line. There's another small
startle. Notice that each time it comes to his spore it usually startles a little
bit less. It's getting some older data now. What's been going on around here
before today? It's got a little bit of frozen drool or sweat on its jowls. It
seems to be in an unusual state of consciousness this animal. And it does, it
looks to me to be a little hungry. I'm not sure. There's some air, some wind
testing. Not sure but it seems like maybe I can see a little bit of rib
shadow through the fur there. By the way you're welcome to look at this video. On
a larger screen it's called Feeding Coyote and Magpie by Ryan Heavyhead
Two Words. You can just look it up on YouTube. And I encourage you to enjoy many
amazing videos and educational discussions that Ryan's put together. He's got
thousands of videos. They're just astonishing. The magpies, by the way,
seem to be having kind of a game of this whole thing. They don't seem to
really take it very seriously. They're not worried. They're aware of the camera.
They're aware of the coyotes kind of concern of the camera. Ryan told me they
often flew over. Here's one of them flying over near the camera now. It's
kind of just showing like we don't care. So there's a camera here. So what? We know.
Once again this animal has gone back into a trance. The coyote is trancing
out. This could indicate that it's extremely hungry. We had you know a few
other ideas. Possibly it was a scout. But it seems to be very concerned about the
fact that a human has been here. More concerned about that than the fact that
there's meat. And that's a lot of meat. That's enough meat to keep an animal alive
probably at least for a week. Maybe two or three animals. It barely glances at the
meat. Doesn't taste it. Doesn't test it. Really interested in scanning the whole
terrain. There's a little wind snuffing there. This animal is extremely concerned.
Hypervigilant. A little more ground testing. What's it going to go and check
the spore again? Looks like it might. Watching the surrounding some more
triggered by the magpie behavior. Yep. There's another sniff and startle.
Triggered by the magpies. Notice it doesn't care about the meat. It's just
getting triggered. Sees that black and white fluttering. That causes the rapid
approach with the ears back and head down. There's the magpie feeding.
That doesn't bother it, right? It's when it sees a lot of fluttering that it gets
triggered. Here it actually looks like it's relaxing a bit. The animal seems a
little tired. It's blinking. It seems to be almost in a resting state. Now it's
going back to vigilance. There's some ear movement on the right ear. Not so
common. This animal hasn't had a lot of that going on during the encounter here.
Not sure exactly what that indicates. Seems to kind of not be too sure like
what else to do. Like what's next. Now here we have a new magpie arriving. A little
bit more triggering there. Vocalizations by the magpies. The magpies, by the way,
have a very specific feeding system. You can see the other two birds are
not attempting much to get food a little bit. When more birds arrive, things are
different. With small numbers of birds, there's a particular protocol. This
whole dance between the coyotes and the magpies, millions of generations old,
highly programmed by evolution. These animals know each other intimately well.
They draw each other to food. So what's going to happen in a minute is, yeah,
notice how these other two magpies stand off. Okay, so now we've got a group of
magpies coming. That's the end of it for the coyote. She's loping. When she gets
into the distance, she's going to pause right about here. Stop, turn back, survey
the scene again as if to make sure nothing's following her. She's still
surveying. She's still surveying. And she's gone. She's going a little tiny
dot. Okay, so now we've got a little bit later, about less than 10 minutes later.
Same scene. Notice how the magpies are feeding very differently now. They're all
on the meat, very few on the periphery. Working it out piece by piece, chunk by
chunk. And here's what's going to happen. A very differently tempered creature is
coming. And you'll notice the different temperament, I think, immediately.
Notice how different the feeding profile is. Here we go. Right on in there. Chase
the magpies out. Quick survey. Meat grab. Gone. Different tail. Different animal.
Bigger animal. Drop the meat now for a quick safety survey. Anything chasing me?
Anything on my tail? Everything looks pretty cool. Grab the meat and we're out
of here. At a relatively leisurely pace. A couple magpies taking off. The coyote
goes off in the same direction as the previous coyote. And very different
animal. Very different temperament. No problem with the tail. Seemed a slightly
larger animal. Of course, the magpies are here cleaning up the blood. They're getting
at the scraps now. And yeah, that second animal came in. Everything's on its
right. It's keeping everything on its right side, which is, of course, much
easier to track and is the vigilance aspect. Comes in on the right. Approaches
the meat from behind. Scares off the magpies. Quickly takes a very brief look
around as if it's not as if it's a relatively trivial matter to survey the
area. Grabs the meat. Goes off for a second site check and then is out of
there. Do these two coyotes know each other? We don't know. It's possible. The
first coyote appears to be really concerned with scouting and trying to
figure out why there's meat here. It's obvious that the meat didn't just fall
from the sky. Humans brought the meat that much as obvious too from the
tracks and snow. So the first animal could be a scout, could be a decoy. If
those two are a couple, first animal obviously went out to really carefully
survey the area and then the second animal came in for a pick up. It's very
likely these two animals are at least known to each other, but whether or not
their cooperating is unclear. First animal is really frightened looking. It looks
like it's had encounters with humans. It seems to be very concerned that there
are humans. It seems to be expecting kind of terrible trouble at any moment.
And frankly it looks relieved when it's ready to go. It looks like happy to be
getting out of there. Second animal doesn't seem particularly concerned but
doesn't intend to spend a lot of time on the site either. And its cursory
inspection of the site seems to imply that, well, we might imagine that the
first animal somehow communicated with it that there was meat here and that the
site had at least undergone one very careful cautious check. One of the things
that's interesting is that both of the animals, the magpies and the coyote first
one, produce startle responses on approach to the food. Even if you watch
the first magpie approach, you'll see a couple of brief startle responses before
it approaches the food. There's a couple of interesting purposes for that. One is
that sudden movement should trigger interest from any nearby predators and
possibly produce movement in response, which will reveal them to the bird or
the coyote. So when the coyote startles like that, it's kind of giving a visual
signal like, hey, look at me for a second and then it will turn back and look and
see if anything has come after it. I remember as a child having a kind of
similar sort of fear where I get so scared I just start running and then I'd
look to see if anything was chasing me. Of course, there in these cases, there
never was much like with this coyote. And yet the coyote was being observed,
even though it's only mechanical. And when it became aware of the camera, it
definitely recognized that as a human artifact and had a significant startle
response to that as well. And notice what happens. The animal looks at the camera,
startles, then looks at the camera again. Has it moved? Did it notice me? Did it
see that I start? Is it coming now? That it must have noticed me when I
startled. So these startle responses can be defensive because if the animals
try to determine if it's being observed, the startle may produce a reaction in
any observing predator or human. There's a lot more to learn in this video and by
careful observation of animals and living places in general. Particularly, I
would ask that you pay very close attention to the sidedness of animal
behavior, bird behavior, predator behavior. Which sides do they approach from?
Which sides do they track from? Which sides do they attack or defend from? These
things all turn out to be very important because all animals are
complexly lateralized in their brain hemispheres. We have complex two-sided
animal. Thanks for listening in. Hope you found something interesting in my
commentary and feel free to explore some more of Ryan's videos and or my own.
