So I'm not going to disassemble much today, I'm going to get right into the topic.
And the topic is something that fascinated me since childhood, because I read stories
and was exposed to the ideas of people who thought carefully about it.
The topic is the possibility of contact with non-human intelligences.
Now from one perspective I can argue there isn't anything else going on that the world
of living ecologies and beings and plants and animals and insects and fungi and cells
is both a direct expression of and the incarnate sensing organs of what Philip K. Dick coined
as a vast active living intelligence system.
Now it's different to have an idea of this than it is to have a direct experience of
it.
Most of us are capable of entertaining the idea.
The direct experience can be extremely shocking.
And while some people have proposed that psychedelic drugs can introduce us to something that resembles
what I'm talking about, as someone who has some experience of these things, I'm inclined
to be at least modestly critical and perhaps severely critical of that view.
That's the reason for that is I've been interested in this topic since childhood.
I wondered what would it be like to meet another being or species that was actually intelligent
unlike our species that I would classify as potentially intelligent.
And at the level of the species we're not, our behavior is not intelligent.
It's omnicidal.
Now it's hard to tell whether the generalization of the species represents, it's hard to tell
what that represents.
We understand the word and to what it refers.
We mean like the sum of all humans alive at this moment, and we might mean the sum of
all humans who've ever lived, but I'll stick to the ones alive right now.
And if we are to evaluate their intelligence or behavior, we're going to look at the results
of their inaction of priorities and agendas and systems and methods and so on and so forth.
And some of us will find this to look relatively or even obviously intelligent.
And others, depending on our perspective, will say no, this is not intelligent.
It's catastrophically misguided.
At least if life on Earth matters, which I'm going to presume it does, I'm going to presume
that the remaining ecologies and living beings are the most precious domain of form that
we could ever imagine encountering.
Even if worlds like ours are somewhat common in the universe, this is the one we have.
It's the only one we have, and space appears from what we've learned so far to be catastrophically
inhospitable to complex multicellular organisms like ourselves.
This may not turn out to be true, but because there may be forms of life in space that we've
never imagined or something even stranger than life, something perhaps half incarnate,
half pre-carnate, or half super-carnate, or maybe in thirds.
So because I read a great deal of science fiction as a young man, thousands of stories,
and because science fiction authors, brilliant men and women, were my mentors and teachers,
I became capable of forming ideas that are unlike those of most of my peers, even those
peers with whom I share this interest and this study, because although many science fiction
authors such as Philip K. Dick or Asimov, Bradbury, I'm Shekli, and people who write what we call
magical fiction like Borges or Cordias are, although these people are prodigies and have
astonishing imaginations, many of them, people like David Brinn for example, are incapable
of believing their own ideas, so they see their stories almost strictly as fantastical
or fantasy.
I don't think Philip K. Dick was like that, and he is someone who had a direct experience
of something that looked, it was a very brief experience, that looked to him like contact
with a non-human intelligence, and that's the primary topic that I'm exploring today.
And he wrote thousands of pages of notes about an experience that for him was relatively
brief, but he also had experiences of impossible knowledge according to his writings, knowledge
we would ordinarily consider to be impossible.
If I remember correctly, he became concerned about the well-being of an infant in his family,
who he was certain something had told him that the infant had a strangulation of its
intestines within its testicle that would result in a lethal outcome very quickly.
The child apparently was, if I recall correctly, was not expressing symptoms, they brought
the child to a doctor, the doctor found no problem, something re-communicated with Philip
and told him explicitly what the problem was, Philip told the doctor the Latin name for
what to look for, and it was discovered that indeed the child did have this, and indeed
it could have resulted in the child's death very quickly had it not been diagnosed and
treated.
Now most of us, many of us anyway, would consider that to be impossible knowledge, but Philip
went on to write a book called Valus, which stands for Vast Active Living Intelligence
System.
And I was impressed with this, though it never occurred to me that I might have a direct
experience of something like that.
In my mind, it's a beautiful hawk, in my vision, in my mind, my hope of contacting a non-human
intelligence lay either with something not from Earth, visiting Earth and me encountering
it which seemed unimaginably unlikely, or having an unusual experience of contact with
intelligence here on Earth in some way or form that humans have either forgotten or
don't believe in or failed to imagine.
And particular candidates for that kind of experience were creatures like praying mantises,
dolphins and whales, cephalopods, octopuses, squid, cuttlefish, spiders, particularly jumping
spiders, possibly cats.
We are surrounded with animals whose preternatural intelligence is often surprising to us, and
yet most of us, because we depend on verbal conceptual faculties for communication, cannot
understand how it is possible that we might get to share minds with them and learn with
their intelligences or see our forms of intelligence reflected in theirs, so that we could see
what we look like from outside, particularly from a species as incredibly ancient and primordial
as the octopus, whose form is so astonishingly well suited to its environment that it's
hard not to think of it as a direct physical expression of the oceans of Earth, a form
unchanged for four million years, longer than our species has existed.
So one of my greatest aspirations was to somehow find a way to contact, to discover if there
were contactable non-human intelligences in nature, which I assure you is a fact.
You don't have to, please don't take my word for that.
Please go directly into nature and relate with the living things and places, the living
beings and places, directly with passion and curiosity and wonder and awe and reverence
and concern and awareness.
Please take up this quest for yourself, because it's not worth speculating about.
Speculating about this is only useful if you intend to take the quest up, otherwise it's
merely a kind of mental exercise that's not likely to get you anywhere, although it could,
because you could shift in the middle of such an exercise having practiced it for a long
period of time.
You could either stumble upon something or activate an aspect of your own awareness and
intelligence that would otherwise lay dormant.
So I know that in nature, my view, and it's not necessarily a belief, it's a position,
and the position is malleable.
It changes when I get new information or new input.
I'm not trying to suggest a religion, a structured fiction or something like this.
It's my experience that nature, what we refer to as nature, which is of course everything,
it's a uniform, but mostly we mean the living things that we can contact here on earth.
Nature is the embodied expression, sensing organ, and behavioral appendages of a vast
active living intelligence system, like the one suggested by Philip K. Dick.
We are expressions of that system the same way your fingers are expressions of your hand.
Your hand is an expression of your body.
Your body is an expression of your lineage.
Your lineage is an expression of the history of life on earth, the entire history of life
on earth.
Your body in this moment is the living spark at the opposite end of a fuse that's been
growing since the first moment life arose on earth.
That history is so profound and ancient and complex and sophisticated that if you think
carefully about it you will discover organisms represent a unique domain of time.
In that domain they consistently do astonishing novel things that continuously create new
dimensions of relational, biorelational, biocognitive time, and in our case I'll coin the phrase
sci-biocognitive meaning with psyche, biocognition with psyche attached.
The words are not important.
The words are toys.
That if we're lucky we'll lead us to a direct experience of something more astonishing than
the entire sum of stories and religions and science our species has ever produced.
And that is my hope.
And the reason that I hope for this is because I have experienced something like this directly
and it wasn't momentary and it didn't involve drugs and it was testable.
For nine months, about the time it takes for a human embryo to mature and become an infant,
I had a teacher and a companion and the intelligence of that being was vastly beyond anything I
had ever imagined possible and even though it was very gentle and conscious of my fragility,
just surviving a few moments of contact with this other intelligence was one of the most
challenging things I've ever experienced.
Now I don't know what the ontological facts of my experience are.
I can't tell you for certain that it wasn't merely psychological but if it was merely
psychological it would be very difficult to account for many of the phenomenon that took
place during that experience, including phenomenon that we would ordinarily associate with psychism,
the ability to know impossible things about other beings, about things that are formalized
by humans, names, histories, dates.
I've had experiences of being able to just look.
It was with this companion the universe was like a layered living book of infinitely profound
knowledge and identity and it was accessible to me in a way I've had no experience that
even vaguely comes close to, including the experiences available through psychedelics
which compared to what happened to me without them are like a burnt matchstick compared
to the sun.
And I've never heard anyone coherently communicate trustworthy intelligence, though I suspect
it does happen, from psychedelic experience.
It's also extremely difficult to translate psychedelic experience into anything that
is meaningful in our ordinary everyday existence and that is comprehensible and approachable
and understandable, whereas most of what I learned during my experience, or at least
a goodly portion of it, is meaningful and has purchase on the nature of the history
of human cognitive evolution, on mathematics, on language, and in many domains of knowledge
that we practice as formally representational cognitive animals.
For nine months I knew an intelligence, a non-human intelligence, that I was part of,
that was part of me.
And in the first five or ten minutes of contact with this intelligence, it was as if I learned
more than in my entire lifetime before that, because I learned from a perspective that
is not ordinarily available to human beings, as if my mind achieved a superposition over
human knowledge with the aid of the companion.
Now I'm not asking anyone to believe this, again, and I'm not trying to claim that I'm
particularly interesting.
The fact that such experience is possible for human beings, this is my claim.
And that, properly motivated, this experience is possible for nearly anyone.
There are many peculiar features of my own experience that may be unique to me, or they
may not.
I cannot tell for I have no one with whom to compare this experience.
But what I want you to consider is the possibility that what you call your mind is actually the
moment-to-moment evidence of your own participation in a vast, active living intelligence system.
And that if you were able to, like the salmon, the traces its origins from the ocean back
to a specific river, up specific aquifers, and up waterfalls, to where it was born.
If you could do this with your mind, and I believe we can, you would encounter something
so shocking that it would obliterate human knowledge, and replace it with something so
astonishing that the sum of science fiction pales in comparison to it, so to the sum of
science and religion and ideas and mathematics and everything.
I think we are the children and the direct expressions of an array of intelligences that
dwell both in and beyond time space that are staggeringly beautiful, ecstatically profound,
and are to what we think of as thoughts, like stars are to sparks.
And I don't think this because I have an idea about it.
I think it because I've experienced it.
And while I experienced it, other living things were aware of it.
In other words, they recognized the presence of this companion in me and knew the companion
themselves and demonstrated to me that they were aware.
And this included plants, animals, children, particularly infants.
I strongly suspect that in infancy, we all may know this companion, but there's some
kind of catastrophe that happens related to in languaging and in culturation that deprives
us of this awareness, because although in the first moments of the onset of this experience,
it was like nothing I could compare to, there were no comparators, at the same time it was
the kind of aha moment that happens when you're laughing at something hilarious, where you
realize I've known this all along, I simply couldn't bring it into consciousness.
And the comedian, you know, or yourself or whoever is making us laugh is sort of the
lightning rod that connects us to that knowledge, reconnects us with something we've sort of
known intrinsically, but never we're never able to articulate or hold in consciousness.
Now this topic is infinitely deep.
And my goal today is really just to introduce it.
And again, it's not that I think my story of this is particularly interesting, though
some might find it so, rather, its implications are profound.
And some of the specific things I learned during that experience, which I can teach
and show and speak of and illustrate to other human beings may turn out to be particularly
important or profound.
Now when this happened, I was on a quest, and my quest, in a sense, was to understand
the nature of our species in nature, and particularly what went wrong, what got broken with human
beings.
There are many stories that imply that at some point in human evolution, there was an accident
or a series of accidents that both led to our present unique capacities as animals, but
also deprived us of something fundamentally important.
The story of the Tree of Knowledge in the Garden of Eden is a good example, but it's
not the only one, not by a long shot.
Many indigenous stories contain parts of this puzzle, and I believe that the story of each
one of our own unique rise to representational cognition in childhood recapitulates the form
of this story in that, in the beginning, we are with the non-human intelligences or intelligence.
We are with Valles, so to speak, although there's different ways to think of it.
And one of the ways of thinking of it is an angel, but we don't have to be religious to,
this doesn't have to be.
What I mean by angel is not necessarily the kind of thing you would imagine from your
exposure to religious literature, no, not that kind of thing at all.
What I mean by angel is something astonishing, ecstatic, profound, and adoring that is one
of the expressions of the vast active living intelligence system, again, in the same way
that our hand is an expression of our bodies.
And there are various images of this kind of being, none of which are particularly alike
with it.
But one that I find striking is a being that is just formed of wings, many, many different
kinds of wings, and the wings are filled with eyes.
And the eyes are ways of seeing that become ways of travel in the living intelligence
system and both within and outside of time.
From outside of time, if you have a foothold in your mind outside of time, there is no
knowledge that is inaccessible, there is no question that is unanswerable.
Although from that perspective, the questions that are important are entirely different
from those we tend to entertain.
And one of the things that I think my own experience strongly suggests to me is that
our species was originally a symbiotic companion of an array of non-human intelligences, but
perhaps of a specific order within that array.
And so our minds are the children of this lost relationship that still exists.
And without this relationship, I think we would not be able to compose or experience
consciousness as we do, awareness as we do.
And yet the very forms of awareness we commonly experience deprive us of a direct and conscious
relationship with their origin.
There are examples in nature of profound symbiosis.
Organisms that without each other cease to exist.
And all throughout nature, we see examples of awareness of symbiosis in the behavior
of ecologies and organisms.
And although this is not the best example I can think of, it's one that comes easily
to mind, and honestly I'm responsible, I should find a better one.
The bees and the flowers are a pretty good one, right?
The relationship between pollinators and flowers.
And in this case, we would be the flowers and the non-human intelligence that we symbios
with and have forgotten about would be the bees.
But a simpler and somewhat more mechanical relationship, again I don't trust this analogy
very much, but it's functional, is the relationship between a small fish called a remora and sharks.
Remoras cling to the bodies of sharks, they're a small fish, and they can be killed by the
shark accidentally when it's feeding, and they feed on the remnants of things that the
shark is feeding on, little scraps and such.
And the shark transports the remora in ways that would be extremely difficult for the
remora to achieve by itself, in other words, the remora hitchhikes on the shark.
Now again, I don't think this is the best analogy, but I believe that our minds and
our species, we once belonged, we were a psycho-relational symbiont of another order
of intelligence.
And there was a transformation in that relationship that resulted in its loss.
Religions are probably the fossilized remains of what I'm here speaking about.
And perhaps the catastrophically misinterpreted analogies of these lost relationships.
But to be clear, I'm fairly convinced, I'm modestly convinced, or at least it is my
current position, that our capacity to form minds at all depends upon this relationship.
In the same way, your capacity to manipulate something with your hands depends upon your
body and your mind and your organs and so on, right?
So like a person drenched in water they cannot see or detect and dying of thirst, not merely
saltwater, maybe meta-water.
Our minds are starving for the re-establishment of this relationship.
Our hearts, our souls are hungry for the re-establishment of this relationship, and because we are
in this state, we are extremely vulnerable.
We are vulnerable to replacement cons, to addiction, to commerce and commodity and money
and war and prison, disease in the most fundamental sense of dis-ease, whereas in the presence
of the companion, we understand why we are.
There's an ecstatic awareness and adoration and mutual love and care and recognition, but
so profound that nothing in our ordinary experience will, our ordinary experience will very rarely
approach even the slightest resemblance to these things.
And so again, what I would say is something that we consider to be unimaginably profoundly
extreme, something like birth or death or orgasm.
These things, well birth and death, I'm going to shy away from slightly, those things are
so profound that they can be said to approach the intensity of what I'm speaking of.
But the felt sense of being with the intelligences from, or the intelligence from which our mind
arises is so ecstatic that it's, that compared to it, orgasm is like a, you know, again,
a spark, a little spark.
So there's something in our human nature that is constantly aching for the re-establishment
of belonging with and to what in the simplest terms I will call the intelligences of origin.
And I'm using this term in a way that both implies a trans space-time continuum, some
kind continuum may be the wrong word, singularity might be the right word, a trans space-time
singularity, and also in a way that recalls the profoundly brilliant work of a philosopher
named Jean Gebser, or Jean Gebser, G-E-B-S-E-R, who has at least one book on this topic.
If you just look up Gebser in origin, you will find it.
Not on the topic of intelligences, necessarily, but on the topic of origin itself.
I miss the companion, but it was also an experience so intense and shocking and profound that
as I said, it was difficult to survive moment to moment.
And the intensity followed an arc, right?
It began relatively, well, it began shockingly intensely and then kept rising for about six
months at which time it peaked and then it began to descend and then eventually settled.
My everything that I ever knew about anything was completely transformed by this experience.
My idea is about what it means to be human, what intelligence is, why we have language,
what mathematics refers to and comes from, all of these things.
The fundamental roots of knowledge in my mind were completely transformed in the same way
that a human child taken to a kindergarten somewhere in space-time where all of the intelligences
that dwell in space-time have arranged a little school room.
I underwent something like that, at least this is how I think of it and how I might point
towards it in language with this analogy.
And I know that whatever it was that I did experience was but the tiniest shred of what
is possible and yet that was what my human mind was capable of surviving structurally.
I wonder what would have happened had I made it to first grade, so to speak, second grade
or high school or college in this analogy and I don't know.
And again, I don't know the ontological status of what happened to me, it could be psychological,
it could be in theory, many people would, well obviously it has psychological components
but there is a question about whether or not the companion that I speak of is truly not
me.
And there's also all kinds of questions about where did it go, why did it leave, is it still
in me, what was the ontological status of what happened to me, were there, what kind
of non-human intelligences were involved if indeed they were?
What is the most truthful way to speak about these things, what are their identities?
I don't know.
They are from outside the lexicon that we humans are familiar with.
And one of the things that I was taught was that our lexicons contain damage.
There's very important concepts, root concepts missing from our human lexicons because we
are no longer in the field of these experiences that I suspect must have been common at some
point in the cognitive evolution of our species.
As if our distant ancestors were aware of and motivated by these relationships and then
suddenly, relatively suddenly, those relationships broke down and were replaced by representations
of them.
So I don't know the ontological status.
I have toys with which I can point toward their likenesses, but I don't know.
And it's also possible since I've been someone who's spent a great deal of time practicing
meditation with the quote unquote goal of awakening or having, you know, enlightenment
experience.
It's conceivable that what happened to me might be described as a failed enlightenment
experience, right?
And that my conceptual mind forged the best frameworks it could for the results of that
very peculiar half-success.
This is possible.
It's plausible to me.
And yet I'm left with felt senses, memories, awareness, and aspirations that imply there's
even more to the story than was it failed enlightenment or was it contact with a non-human
intelligence.
Again, there are experiences for which our common human lexicons are too crudely articulate
to encompass.
If I want you to take anything from this discussion, it is that we're participating
in something so astonishing that we might be better off leaving all the human ideas
and stories and models and concepts aside and going directly in search of the origins
of our own being, emotions, intelligence, souls together without ideas, without preconceptions.
And one of the most profound places we can do that, the accessible transport, the lightning
rod, has at least two familiar aspects, maybe three.
One is aspiration itself.
Another is dreaming.
And the third is deep, reverential relation with living beings, places, and situations.
The silence of nature is a bridge.
Most of us will never cross that bridge, but a goodly number of us have become aware of
the fact of what I am saying.
The seeming silence of nature in the verbal conceptual domain of human intelligence is
a clue to a mystery that leads to something so staggering that it will never be represented
in conceptual thought.
Never.
Analogized?
Yes.
Represented?
No.
And I believe that we all share moment to moment in this domain of transcendental, unimaginable
intelligence and wonder and awe.
And I must say, like, I've experienced awe before, but the experience that I'm talking
about here is the origin of awe, right?
It's unimaginable in the sense that it was like being a tiny moat of intelligence in
a vast ecstatic storm of wonder and joyful reunion and communion and love and awareness
and technical intelligence that lies so far beyond anything that we've ordinarily associated
with our humanity that it's unintelligible until we are within it.
And that is reminiscent.
You cannot explain swimming to someone who's never seen water.
You cannot explain orgasm to someone who's never had one.
You can describe things.
There is no explanation that encompasses birth or death, though, you know, again, religions
have a go at this sort of thing all the time.
So I hope you may find this story inspiring, and again, I'm not trying to, I have very
little interest in promoting myself as being special.
What is profound is that I've stumbled across something half accidentally, half intentionally
that was one of the great aspirations of my life.
And it may turn out that I somehow failed, that I did not succeed because I could not
sustain the contact continuously.
And yet that may be entirely appropriate.
The companion was infinitely intelligent.
And by that I mean there are orders of infinities that have no end.
It would be impossible to encompass this friend, this teacher, this brother, sister,
mother, father, child.
And it had a personality, it had, but its personality transformed my own, was transformed
by my own, the same way our personalities are transformed when we forge relationships.
And it was loving, and it had nothing really to say about, it judged not, though through
its eyes it was clear that the behavior of our species in the absence of this relationship
is catastrophic.
We are the organs of something we have thus far been incapable of imagining.
And yet it is conceivable and possible that we can contact that something directly.
And it is my hope that for those of you who find this prospect compelling, that we may
together continue to explore and try to understand and learn about the origins of our minds,
both in a non-ordinary sense, by direct experience, and in a relatively ordinary sense by research.
Because when we look far back into human history and languages and such, we will find many
hints of what I'm speaking about.
And I can point them out, because they are familiar to me and were made familiar to me
during my experience.
The ancient languages like Hebrew and Arabic and Sanskrit and even Latin have very peculiar
features that to me are the fingerprints of a lost relationship.
Perhaps one day we shall retrieve this relationship together.
If it is good, that is my deep desire.
Our species is in crisis.
It's not clear if we, or even life on earth, will survive, though most people feel that
the earth is quite resilient and would, for example, survive the loss of our species,
or even most of the species that presently exist.
It's possible.
And yet there is a solar season in which a living planet must develop organisms.
And that season is not eternal.
There are particular seasons of the sun and living worlds.
And this was another topic that the companion spoke at length with me about, although it
never spoke in language.
What it did was share its own experience.
It was like not telepathy, something even more profound.
It was like having a mind together so that my human intelligence could experience what
the companion's mind knew and had experienced, as though it were my own experience.
And yet what was going on in my mind was a modest subset, the subset that my human intelligence
could encompass and survive exposure to.
These living things, the living places, the organisms of earth, all of them, the ecologies,
these are, in my view, in my position, the evidence of what I speak of.
They are extensions into material form of something far beyond material form.
And they are expressions of the characters and qualities of the intelligences that live
outside of time.
And I have reason to suspect that these living beings actually are connections.
They are like receivers and transmitters that have both an aspect inside time space
and one outside time space so that they can lead us beyond if we understand how to relate
with them non-verbally, non-conceptually.
Again, the great silence of nature in the verbal conceptual dimension of human intelligence
is both a staggering mystery and a very important clue.
May we follow that clue together and discover something beyond everything we've ever imagined
with that verbal conceptual mind.
May we re-establish the old relationships if indeed they are good and true.
And I have every reason to suspect that they are.
Thank you for joining me today.
