So I just observed these cutes, which could be a pair, possibly this one and this one.
I'm not very good at determining cute gender by glance yet, but I just observed them in
combat. And there were three, this one, that one, and one that is now far off to the left
of the scene. And they were having combat with feet, so they were doing a lot of flapping,
fleeing back and sort of clawing in the water. It was very intense. These two seemed to be
aggressing another one. And when they were done, there was all kinds of interesting behavior like
this rock standing, which both of these birds did, that I haven't seen cutes doing before. And a lot
of shaking and preening, which all makes sense because animals often have situations where
after an intense stimulus, they will shake it off. And so they'll shake their whole bodies.
And there's lots of things going on that I can't understand because I just don't have the
perspective necessary to understand them. But there's also a lot of things going on that I can
understand. The shaking it off and preening behavior. One cute came over after the combat to do what
appeared to be consolation to console the cute that was being aggressed. This cute here is
essentially perceiving itself as the victor, apparently, as far as I can tell. And anyway,
there was really a lot of interesting stuff going on. Now, for me, I'm sensitive to violence. So,
for me, it's emotionally charged when I see creatures doing this. And I'm likely to want to
intervene and stuff. Though I don't always. I don't always intervene. Now, this cute is now
making a beeline pretty much for some other relational opportunity. And here's the cute that
was with it previously over here. And this is, of course, the great blue heron nesting tree.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. There's, you know, nine to 12 nests in that tree.
We're here at Stowe Lake. It's sunset. And in this tree, red-tailed hawks often rear their young.
And I just wanted to talk briefly about what was going on with these coots.
Because there's a weird situation. There's all kinds of really interesting situations, actually.
But over here is the pair that one of them had been involved, I believe. And one of the things
that happens when there's aggression on the lake here is that it's contagious, right? It spreads.
A bird who was lost, essentially, who did not prevail in an aggression may immediately go to
some other bird and aggress it in order to retrieve something like social face or internal,
it's attempting to re-cohare internally in some way. And this is a behavior that I've seen
related aspects of in human beings. Most social animals, and we don't usually necessarily think
of ducks and birds as social animals, but they are. They have social identities and roles.
And when those are threatened, once again, we're seeing the rock-standing behavior
by, I think, the same pair. And they're both going to do it. Now, they could easily get out of the
water. These rocks are more accessible than getting out of the water. But I think there's
something significant about standing high in the midst of the water is my guess here.
But yeah, emotions are contagious. They spread, and they don't just spread by themselves. They are
spread by specific players or agents in a social situation. And so they're not just
like an invisible germ or something like that. They're a behavioral contagion, right? And ideas
are very similar to this. And so are opinions and beliefs and all this stuff.
So I find it fascinating to watch how social emotional qualities can become
socially communicated rapidly in natural situations and in artificial situations,
such as jobs and corporations and advertising and Facebook and Twitter and Instagram and so on.
This is the opposite of a context like that.
Even though this lake was made by humans, it's a place of living water now.
But we are all very sensitive. We're very sensitive to
the relationship between our public presentation and our interiority, our private
experience and thought and feeling. And it's important for us to understand how complex this is
for beings like ourselves. And it's also important for us to have tools with which we can work with
the challenges that we face in the social and relational contexts in which we participate
and have roles or from which we are excluded, rejected, and so on. Particularly those social
contexts where we've experienced aggression. It's very, very difficult to, it can be very difficult
to re-cohere, to return to balance after an incident of, you know, a re-experienced aggression
or rejection or judgment. And these birds have anciently evolved tools for that that involve
shaking, preening. Okay, so now what's going on is the two pairs that were previously in conflict.
Yep, there we go. Okay, they're already making displays. They're coming back together.
And you can see that we're re-instancing the conflict that originally started all this.
Yeah, it's not over yet. These birds aren't done fighting.
Except now, instead of, and I believe these are two couples, right? And this could have to do with
the fact that it's the onset of mating season. This bird over here is probably the female of the
bird that was previously attacked. And I think a couple is attacking one bird here.
So we're seeing, oh, actually a very courageous bird because the bird that's being primarily
aggressed has two opponents. And its probable mate, or at least friend, is standing off to the left.
And this is a replay of what happened previously.
And you can kind of see that one of the birds has two opponents. They're locking legs.
There's definitely a hierarchical display going on. You know, they're establishing
social and relational hierarchies via combat. This is something humans do too.
But most of the time, in nature, the combat's relatively...
There's a lot of show and not a lot of blood, right? It's mostly display.
Although this is pretty intense. And it's interesting that while I've been, you know,
discussing the previous version of this conflict, it's just started up again.
I can't be sure whether or not my presence has any effect on that. But you can see,
or I can see actually, there's a variety of displays going on. The birds lean forward.
The birds lean forward. They show their tails just prior to getting back into the attack.
But my main point is that this kind of behavior is contagious, right? It spreads to other birds.
It can spread to other kinds of birds. After this combat occurred last time,
one of the males aggressed incoming mallards, which is not particularly common for coots.
A mallard's a much larger bird. So mallards came up and one of the males ran up and aggressed them.
Okay, so the female or the other friend is rushing over. It's got the back feathers lifted
into making themselves look larger. There's another coot arriving now that's interested
from the far left that isn't in the scene. The calls from that associated coot
and the raised wings. Yep, here we go. This is contagion. Now we're seeing it.
Other birds are coming over to get involved. Birds that were not involved in the previous
conflict.
And it's not because they've got a bone to pick. It's almost that the emotions are contagious.
And the calls communicate the emotions, right? This is a very, very sophisticated social
phenomenon going on here. It's not just some bird is angry at another bird or there was a
territorial dispute or a mating dispute. It's very sophisticated. This conflict could have
origins in previous days, previous weeks, previous encounters or not.
But mainly what I want to talk about is just the surprising nature of the communicability
of intense emotions. A bird that's been aggressed in one place may immediately go off and aggress
some other bird. And I saw behavior like this in elementary school when I was a child among humans.
Of course tonight we've got a big scene going on. Conor McGregor, a fighting celebrity is going
to be in combat. This isn't the kind of thing I would normally pay attention to.
But hundreds of thousands or millions of people will watch to see who comes out on top, quote,
unquote, in an organized combat where the combatants are primarily fighting for a prize rather than
because they have, you know, because there's an actual conflict between them. So us humans,
we invent conflicts, televise them, turn them into commodities.
Millions of people watch them. And maybe that's a method for us to
create equilibrium that might otherwise dissolve under the pressures of our artificial and bizarre
supercultures. Maybe that's one of the ways that we try to maintain order
in a situation where our social and personal identities are constantly at risk of judgment
or aggression or rejection. And perhaps we're even at risk of celebration, you know, because to be
celebrated by a fake culture isn't exactly a benefit, right? It's not always just a benefit.
It can get you killed. It can ruin your life. Everybody wants to be rich,
but to win the lottery can destroy your world. Because the contexts will partly be due to the
fact that the context that we exist in are so, it's the right word. Well, they're so superficial,
they're so irreal or surreal. And there's lots of other reasons why that phenomenon happens.
People who suddenly acquire huge amounts of wealth after having been relatively poor their
whole lives are not exactly in a position to understand how to make that work.
So yeah, I just wanted to take a minute to share with you
what's going on in the evening tonight at Stow Lake. And some of my reflections on the
communicability of social and relational emotions in social animals like, not entirely unlike,
ourselves, however seemingly different they may appear.
