Hello everybody, I am again in the San Francisco Botanical Gardens, my favorite place to make
videos. Unfortunately, it means that, at least for part of my time here, I'm going to be holding
an electronic device in my hand and paying attention to both that and thoughts
while I'm walking in the gardens.
I've just finished cleaning some spider webs away from the opening to the beehive in
the Great Entrance Cypress Tree.
Glad to see that hive is active again and there are a number of spiders that take advantage of
the fact that the hive is active and also that it's not particularly well populated.
I had to find some bamboo and break a branch of bamboo, not from a branch that had already fallen.
In order to make up broom, with which to sweep away some of the spider webs surrounding
the hive's entrance.
And it's not that I think the spiders shouldn't have access to the bees.
Spiders and bees have been contending with one another for a very long time.
And in fact, other members of the Hymenopter family, particularly wasps, are very adept at
hunting spiders. However, the bees are neither adept at hunting them nor at defending themselves
from them. I have just accidentally located a spot where none of these things may seem
relevant, but to the topic I'm going to pursue, which is actually going to be an extension
of my recent video on dreaming. I've also just located a spot and this is a little confusing,
but it looks like, let's see here, let's see if I can show you this, it looks like that branch
right there of this tree.
Is one of the preferred places that a relatively large raptor
has been using at some point in the not too distant past.
Either as a perch or for digestive purposes. It's conceivable there's a nest up there,
but the reason that I'm, that I know that is because of this.
I can't see what the camera is seeing right now, so I'm just going to move it back and
look at the remains of that
object we ordinarily refer to as an owl pellet or a raptor pellet, and these are the remains of
very large, this one's well decomposed, but these are the remains of very large pellets.
So I suspect, sorry for the shaking there, it's brushing something off the camera,
I suspect there's a relatively large raptor nearby,
and I'm just going to look around briefly for other pellets, but those two are pretty big, so
there's a nice kind of lemony scent near here, not sure what's producing it.
Many of the best pellets, if one is trying to collect them, which very few people do,
are often hidden in the grass or brush at the base of these trees,
so it's difficult to find a large intact pellet. One has to find it fairly
fresh, otherwise they tend to fall apart as they get watered and sprinkled on and so on.
So today I'm going to be talking much more deeply about what we call dreaming,
and one of the problems here is that our nomenclature is very deceptive.
When we make words, we use them in a sense, and of course once I'm talking about the complexities
of language in language, I'm really in trouble, but I'm going to attempt to mitigate the difficulties
as best as I can, as skillfully as I can. So when we make a word,
if we imagine the sum total of possible experiences, or of things that can be experienced,
words are delineations of that manifold. In other words,
a manifold, this word can be used in various ways, but I am thinking of a bubble made of many bubbles,
such that it forms a super bubble, and at the top of human reference chains
is what we, is what I would call a uniform, a single term that refers to all things,
and one of the common unifors is reality, which we would imagine
can refer to all possible phenomena, including cognitive phenomena, even though we might differentiate
things we think from things which exist, and yet thoughts exist. So thoughts are within the realm
of everything. Everything is another common unifor, and the universe is another common unifor.
These refer to the uppermost level token in the tree of tokens that our languages comprise,
and as you go down that tree what you find are delineations, places where we've made cuts,
and we've done that on purpose, and the cuts are not themselves explicit. In other words,
only someone who wanted to would differentiate a tree from the land, or this place,
right, or a stone, or a pool, or the beehive, or the spider. So we make these cuts, and in each
language the cuts have resemblances to one another, but have differences in what they denote,
what they explicitly point at, and what they connote, what their associations are.
So in the game of language we have tokens, trees of tokens, right, what I would say we have
unifors, then we have holophores, which are very important distinctions such as the world, the sun,
food, mother, a friend, dreaming, consciousness, our hand, an eye, animal, plant. These are elements
that we need to have tokens for and understand something about them in order to understand
anything else, because holophores, how should I put it, invest their properties
in subtokens, so that if you think, for example, that the universe is the quote-unquote creation,
or the natural result or expression of a divine being or universe, then all things inherit that
property, right? So everything inherits the properties that we associate with the uniform. If we think
that the universe is a mechanically, you know, it's an accident of uninhabited mechanics,
then everything acquires that property. In other words, nothing is not uninhabited mechanics,
because the universe has that quality. And similarly, to understand what an animal is,
or a plant, or an organism, we generally will know something about what the everything is,
and that everything may be the holophore of the world, right, what the world is, what is the
world. It's a planet in space, this is terrestrial life, these are terrestrial life forms, and so on,
so forth. They inherit the properties that we associate with the planet, but there's all kinds
of holophores. We need to know, for example, maybe two of the most fundamental holophores, and some of
them are bipolar or multipolar like this, are separate and unified, right? Because in order to
have the idea of any distinct thing that has been delineated, we must have some idea or sense of what
it means to be separate, to be distinct. And so perhaps unity and separation are the fundamental,
maybe the most fundamental bipolar holophores. And there isn't an explicit list of holophores,
nor do I really think there should be. I can name a variety of them, 12 to 15,
at will. I'll probably name a different list every time, but it'll contain some
similar elements that I've used in other lists. And the term holophore is a neologism, a new word,
that I invented when I was thinking very deeply about the structure of human relationships with
language. And by the way, I am what might be called a warfian, although I wouldn't use that description
normally, in that I believe at least that our relationships with language transform
our expectations and our experiences of being human, of seeing, of relating with, of understanding,
of noticing. So with a different lexicon, we will notice different things. With different
connotations, those things will have different meanings. With different denotations, they will
obviously have different identities in consciousness and equivalencies, right? They will be like or
unlike, well equivalency might be the wrong word, resemblances, they will be like or unlike other
things. It's said that the hard, the hard, the strong version of the warf hypothesis has been
completely refuted or defeated. Whether or not that is actually true, I still
am certain that our relation, at least our relationships with language, how we use it,
how we understand its own anatomy and function and potentials, deeply affect our experiences,
understandings, noticings, the way we make analogies or resemblances or metaphors,
and so the very nature of our representational cognition. And part of why that's important
and why I'm using this as a preface is that I'm talking about dreaming. And this word dream
is used in English primarily to refer to
what I will actually call an experience of non-ordinary cognition. Because I'll refer to
waking consciousness as ordinary cognition for the moment, even though I may choose to invert
that polarity later and say that it's actually the dreaming consciousness that has precedence and
that waking consciousness is a subset of dreaming. It's a specific, how shall I put this?
It's a specifically structured sub-aspect of what would otherwise be dreaming consciousness.
And I think it's an aspect we learn to sustain as we mature from childhood
to produce what is generally understood by adults primarily as waking consciousness,
because children have a very different experience of waking consciousness than adults do.
And this is evidenced by their absolute fascination with play and even with what we call toys.
So we have these delineations in language, in English. We have being awake,
as we may suppose I am now. We have being asleep. And then we can say, I can say,
the waking mind to refer to the common properties that are familiar to me, and there are many
available properties that are not familiar to me. In fact, we might say most of the available
properties of the waking mind are not familiar to me. I have managed to become acquainted with a
very small subset of those properties or faculties is a better word. Yes, I like that word much better.
So there's an incredible array of faculties that are available to us
within waking consciousness. Most of us will have an incredibly modest exposure to those faculties,
and that exposure will be delineated partly by language, partly by culture, partly by heritage,
partly by experience, so on and so forth. I'm going to pause briefly while people pass me.
So I want you to imagine thousands of faculties that are available to waking consciousness
and to realize that we are likely to become familiar with only a very small fraction of those,
and that's primarily because of what we're told to expect and what is modeled to us
by adults and authorities, scientists, theorists, religious authorities, so on and so forth.
But I know for certain that there are essentially an unlimited number of faculties available to
the waking mind, and I know for certain that for most of us, the reason I know this is I've had
some brief experience of something else. I've had brief experience of that very narrow window
of waking consciousness faculties suddenly widening dramatically beyond anything I ever imagined
possible, and that experience is still somewhat inexplicable to me, though I could compare it
with various ideas such as direct contact with a non-human intelligence.
That's the one I prefer because that's the one that most resembles the experiences that I had
and still occasionally have, but usually to a much more modest degree.
So there's a vast array of faculties available to waking consciousness, and most of us are going to
have a very limited exposure to those faculties. Similarly, there are a vast array, perhaps an
infinite array of faculties available and normal to our dreaming consciousness, and again,
most of us are going to have a very limited exposure to those faculties, experience of them,
knowledge of them, firsthand or even theoretical. So in common English, we have a few terms that
relate to dreaming consciousness. We have the ordinary dream. We have hypnagogic experience,
which is experiences often involving what we call hallucinations that occur between being awake
and falling asleep. We have the post-hypnagogic dreaming, which is the first, the dreams that
we have before we enter deep sleep, and then we have the pre-hypnopompic dreaming, the dreams we
have before transiting from sleep to wakefulness. We have hypnopompic experience, which is the
experience in between. Ordinarily, we don't have a lot of hypnagogic or hypnopompic experiences,
but the betweens from waking to sleep and sleep to waking,
these are sort of bridge domains in which extremely unusual phenomenon can occur
that are often seem very bizarre, are hallucinogenic,
perhaps are psychogenic, and so forth. And by the way, psychogenic means psyche generating,
and sygenic is a word I use to mean mind-making, but there's another, I think there's an actual
term for generating states of consciousness. Now, of course, these are the cuts we have made,
and people who made different cuts will have wildly different ideas, and because they'll
have different ideas, they will notice, be curious about, perceive, pursue, reject, embrace phenomenon.
So language makes a difference. There's no way around it, it has to,
because associated with language are meanings and values and evaluations, so that
for a given sociocultural people, certain phenomenon will be sought after and desired,
other phenomenon will be fled from, repressed, seen as undesirable,
and this will often have to do with a value system that underlies the languages and is associated
with the tokens, the delineations, the cuts in the manifold of all that is,
that have been made by those people, and all those cuts are made for purposes,
so the language matters, it turns out, whether or not we can prove or disprove
Worf's hypothesis, or the Sapier-Worf hypothesis set, or the strong or weak versions, that's irrelevant.
Well, it's not irrelevant, but it doesn't answer the question, right?
And the fact that I'm just stating this, I'm just asserting that the language matters,
doesn't make it true. Obviously, you'll have to, just like we all do, you'll have to decide for
yourself, hopefully through experiment and exploration, whether what I'm saying here makes
sense, and is accessible to your own direct experience of cognition. Certainly, if I call
this a tree, this guy, this gal, this being, this possibly non-gendered thing,
and by the way, all the controversy around gendered pronouns is related to the fact that
language matters. In that particular domain, which I'm not going to dwell on or deeply delve into,
it appears that some segment of our population has become extremely concerned with
the denotations and connotations of gender pronouns, and that's because they feel
well. I can't say exactly why that is, actually. It's very complex this story, and it's not an
easy thing to delineate. It's not an easy thing to draw a circle around and resolve.
There's a woodpecker up here.
Now, if I call that a woodpecker, that has certain associations and connotations. It doesn't really
matter a lot if I just change it to a nonsense word like a nobafred. Because that term has no,
it doesn't belong to a language. It doesn't acquire the meaning elements that are inside phonemes
or even single letters or sounds, because sounds themselves are meaningful to human beings.
The sounds made by our letters are very meaningful, and the vocal sounds we make
have a kind of visceral sensibility to us. It matters if the sounds are different, but it
doesn't help me to simply change the word tree into a nonsense word, because that word will
stand alone. It'll be almost a kind of super neologism, right? A word that,
although in making neologisms, we will tend to incorporate aspects of our native language
unless we're trying to invent a word in one of our non-native languages, presuming we have some.
And a speaker who knows many languages is really living in a different world of identity
than someone who only knows one, because a speaker who knows more than one language can
triangulate on identity from multiple positions in a linguistic structure, whereas somebody who
knows only a single language is trapped with that single structure. And you might think, well,
what does all this have to do with dreaming? And that's a very reasonable thing to think,
because I'm thinking it right now. But it has a lot to do with dreaming if the waking mind and
our representational faculties were forged and informed by experiences of dreaming. And for me,
that relationship seems very, very likely. Even if they were not only forged by our experiences
of dreaming, they were deeply influenced by them. The linguistic emerges from the non-linguistic,
from the pre-linguistic, in my view, and is deeply related to that which cannot be spoken.
But the reason that I'm concerned with these cuts that we make to produce tokens like waking
and dreaming and consciousness is because I want to draw into question the scope of dreaming.
And the way that I want to draw into question is by
suggesting that the scope is very broad and actually encompasses waking consciousness,
though most of us will remain unaware of that during our lifetimes, primarily because the models
that we have of waking consciousness explicitly exclude dreaming. And the experiences that we
have of waking consciousness seem to be not like dreaming. And what waking consciousness can ordinarily
conserve from our dreaming experience is a very modest segment at best, or very modest produce.
Essentially, most of us can only conserve a plot. And a plot is a kind of this happened,
then that happened, then this happened. Linear structure that is easily communicated in language
and yet does not communicate most of what actually is going on in dreaming experience.
So we have in English a variety of things we can talk about commonly in dreaming.
These include hypnopompic and hypnagogic phenomenon. Excuse me, got that backwards.
I'll go from waking to sleep and sleep to waking. So hypnagogic and hypnopompic phenomenon.
What we refer to as lucid dreaming, which is the usually relatively gentle intrusion of aspects
of waking consciousness into what I'll call the dreaming manifold or the dream experience.
And lucid dreaming is a way that our waking consciousness can participate somewhat
directly in dreaming experience without causing it to collapse into waking.
Most of the time, when we begin to have some concern with our waking mind in a dream,
for many of us anyway, what happens is we awaken. The intrusion of waking concerns or questions
about even the history of a specific dreaming experience, like how did I come to be
in a room that is not my room and yet is my room, right? Or why does this person
who looks nothing like my sister, why is that person actually my sister? And I know her to be
my sister or even him to be my sister, even though it doesn't look like my sister, right?
We can have experiences of identity and dreaming that are radically different from those we are
accustomed to in our waking minds. And the dreaming mind sees in general little conflict,
little or no conflict. It might notice that something's a little unusual, right? If my sister
is a boy in my dream. But it won't collapse by itself. The waking mind's concerns have to enter
into the situation for it to be, for there to be the collapse. As I understand it, for the dream
to collapse toward waking, the waking mind's concerns and intelligences have to intrude upon
the dreaming situation. I think it would be really amazing if we could do the opposite thing, if we
could experience lucid waking or trans lucid waking, which would be the subtle intrusion of
dreaming phenomenon into our waking consciousness without collapsing it into a dream. That would
be really something. And this is part of what I think people are after when they're using psychedelic
drugs. And that may be one of the ways to have something that at least resembles
that experience. But I think it's problematic in a variety of ways. There is a resemblance,
but there is not an equivalence. We don't use drugs and need no drugs to experience lucid dreaming.
And there is no drug you can take that I'm aware of, though there are a few that have been suggested.
I know a couple of them. It's been so long since I've thought about this topic that I may not be
able to name them at the moment. But there are a couple of herbs. One produces a very bitter tea
that at least are reputed to facilitate lucid dreaming. So again, hypnagogic phenomenon, dreaming
itself, hypnopompic phenomenon, lucid dreaming, and what? Let's see. Oh, then we have what is
referred to as astral travel or OBEs, out of body experiences. Now, it should be
clear that the phrase lucid dreaming encompasses a range of phenomenon.
And so too, the phrase astral travel, these encompass a range of phenomenon. One of the
peculiar, I guess it would be difficult to say whether this is an aspect of dreaming or of
trained imagination. But the phenomenon referred to as remote viewing, a phenomenon many people
would be skeptical of, but I am not particularly skeptical about because I both experienced it
and experienced it being done. This is a radical transformation. This is one of the waking faculties
that I'm claiming are available to us that we would not ordinarily have experience of.
And again, I think there are thousands of these. So in English, we have waking, dreaming, hypnagogia,
hypnopompia, astral travel, lucid dreaming, and then maybe a few other words like visions.
And again, the phrases astral travel, lucid dreaming, and visions, the word visions,
these refer to a broad range of phenomenon, not simply one. And so too does the word dreaming.
So that there are many different forms of dreaming, many flavors, many kinds,
but in English, we do not really have, we've not made many distinctions.
We pretty much just have dreams and nightmares, lucid dreams, astral travel.
Perhaps we might include precognitive dreams. Again, something some people are skeptical about,
but that I have good reason to believe actually happens to people. In fact, there was an example of
it yesterday where a man had a dream about his friend in which his friend was very frightened by
a dog that had bit his friend in childhood when they were in real life. And he had a dream that
he was again with his friend as an adult and this dog came and the man was very frightened of the dog
and he had this dream and the next day the man in that dream was found to be dead in his house.
Now that's not a direct precognitive dream. The dreamer did not dream that the man died
the next day and would be found in his house, but he had a dream that something was badly wrong
and that the man was very frightened and the dream stuck out in his consciousness and he remembered it.
So I very much believe that dreaming connects us to a non-ordinary cognizium,
a network of minds and not all of those minds are human.
We might have difficulty understanding or believing in the existence of non-human
minds and by this I mean particularly minds that are not embodied as organisms.
I don't think we have too much trouble believing for example that a cat or a dog has something
resembling a mind and even a personality. I found this to be much more prevalent in my own experience
of living things and beings and living places than regular quote-unquote people would imagine
so that to me plants and even insects demonstrate aspects that resemble mindedness
and or personality particularly certain kinds of insects.
Well it's much more recognizable in certain kinds it's much easier for humans to recognize
in certain kinds of animals and insects than it is in others and that's because we associate
certain qualities with mindedness and many of those are suggested to us by our language
so that it is easier for us to perceive something analogous to mindedness or consciousness,
character, personality in animals like cats or dogs or chimps or gorillas or dolphins
than it is for example in bees or house flies or ants. But as someone who has spent a great
deal of time with insects I assure you that it is at least true to my own experience that each
insect is an individual organism in the sense that it has unique characteristics local to that
organism that are expressions of its unique biology history experience perhaps analogs of
emotion and so on and so forth. One can see house flies contesting over terrain very violently
and just as other animals do after the contest they preen right and that's not merely
you know here we come to the idea of instinct which is a hugely problematical nightmare
but it's not merely instinctual each animal preens somewhat differently and for different
purposes and with slightly different outcomes. So I've birdwalked somewhat here but what I
want to suggest is that there are cognizia networks of minds and that different organisms
compose cognizia together and they also compose social cognizia such as a beehive or the city
of san francisco or the state of california or the united states or the northwest hemisphere
or the world there is a human cognizium there is a cognizium of bears um there is the cognizium
of dogs and these are cuts in the universal network of minds in the metacognizium that all
beings probably in all of time and space compose or comprise together it's going to be a little
noisy here for a moment so I'm walking next to the street and the cognizium of drivers is different
from the cognizium of people who are walking right we can make all kinds of different distinctions
but what I want to suggest is that um dreaming one of the things that's going on in dreaming
is that we are connecting with um transmitting to that is to inform or in structure and receiving
from that is to become informed or unstructured uh the cognizia of other beings and possibly
not just other beings but in other dimensions of time and or space in other places
and some of those beings are transhuman there are intelligences that are vastly more significant to
ours vastly superior to ours there are intelligences that we might ordinarily think of as supernatural
although that's a little bit confused since nature is a uniform right it refers to all that is
and for something to be supernatural it would have to be beyond that which is
it could be supernatural in the sense that it transcends locality right and most of our experiences
of nature are localized at least in time we think of the past is inaccessible and the future is
inaccessible but I believe that's not the fact of our cognition or our humanity I think it's
actually more a fact of our habituated perspective in time and the reason I think that is again I've
had experience of non-local temporal awareness so it seems to me that human minds particularly when
aided by an outside satellite can escape many of the boundaries that we would ordinarily associate
with what is knowable by a human being that we would ordinarily believe to delineate what is
knowable by a human being now lots of other things are going on in dreaming um the swarm
is getting dried out and that's not good let's see if I can somehow be of assistance
with this animal so you know I've just had contact with a non-human organism physical contact I've
acquired some of its commensal bacteria on my fingers and it's acquired some of mine
hopefully that will have a good outcome for the animal that I was attempting to assist
that's not always guaranteed humans are missing crucial domains of awareness when we interact with
living communities or organisms and what seems you know good to us can be absolutely catastrophic
organisms this is a very painful thing that I discovered in my childhood because I was too naive
my ideas of what constituted the good for me and some organism were often catastrophically
misfounded in sort of fairy tales and it doesn't necessarily help to have science
um a good example is that the department of fish and game was contacted at some point to
license an indigenous group to hunt buffalo a traditional symbiotic relationship
um
and the scientists in the department of fish and game told the indigenous hunters
they would grant the lysis but they had to hunt only the oldest bulls
the herds from which those bulls were hunted died and the reason they died is that the oldest
bulls are the ones that cut through the snow and ice for the herd when conditions become very harsh
and so the fish and game people were thinking what they you know what they imagined to be
rational thoughts the oldest bulls can't reproduce anymore they're essentially disposable they also
aren't very good at protecting the herd but that's not really true so rationality can be
misfounded and we can have the wrong idea about what constitutes goodness in a relationship with
organisms primarily because our our conceptual awareness is insufficient to encompass the actual
situation or relationship yeah and perhaps with our dreaming mind we might have better luck if our
dreaming mind were somehow involved um at least if the number if the
if the scope of our relational and organizational awareness were expanded
and perhaps our conceptual awareness slightly reduced so that it wouldn't
dominate that organizational awareness we might be able to make better choices
in understanding how humans can relate with living beings and places in a way that is healthy
and mutually beneficial and perhaps for us cognitively beneficial because it would nourish
aspects and faculties of waking consciousness that we are either
deprived of or we have broken versions of them
I've had a wide variety of dreaming experience but that's not by any stretch of the imagination to
claim that I've glimpsed the scope of the possibilities I haven't
I simply have had a variety of staggeringly surprising experiences and have spoken with
others who've had experiences as well um that early on convinced me that what what we are taught
to think about dreaming is not true um and is far too narrow to be useful I had non-ordinary
experiences as a child my mom would say oh you were just dreaming I would try to explain to her no mom
this wasn't a dream um she was concerned that if I became too fascinated by these experiences and
phenomenon that I might go mad she was concerned for my sanity apparently she was aware that madness
was a factor in our family history um and she herself would undergo
through her life later
uh
profound and disruptive experiences of non-ordinary cognition
that definitely did not seem to be
healthy right it wasn't as though she was drawing new insights and intelligence from these
experiences rather she was what we would usually call delusional
and this factor is uh relevant in my family tree although the forces the same
the same catalysts that emerge as madness in one mind can conceivably emerge as prodigy
in another mind a mind capable of managing the
staggeringly profound momentum of non-ordinary cognition and non-ordinary cognitive phenomenon
such as those that result in mania bipolar disorder schizophrenia
borderline personality disorder autism etc the things that we think of as mental illness or
in newer language neurodiversity so I am I am suggesting that under some circumstances
the same catalysts that would produce psychosis in one individual might produce prodigy in another
and I suggest this based upon direct experience
of something that bordered on psychosis but I was able to manage
and produce otherwise unimaginable insight from over a long period of time
this too is related to dreaming schizophrenia mania autism uh
all of these things the the nature of consciousness
its under structure is deeply and profoundly related to dreaming oh that's interesting
just do not proceed beyond this point
danger no it doesn't say what of what is the danger
so here's a sign
and someone has broken off
the part that says oh I see oh I see what it is okay the danger is um
the branches of these trees often break and fall
so they don't want people to proceed beyond this little this little barrier
you know we've been told that's like what my mom was saying when she was telling me as a child
when I'd had for example an out of body experience that I was only dreaming
or when I had a really profound hypnagogic hallucination that it was just a dream
it wasn't just a dream and I was not merely dreaming and the idea that dreaming is a mere
phenomenon is the kind of absurd and backwards perspective we would we get from
the the isolated eye the relatively isolated island of waking consciousness as we ordinarily
experience it now it is apparent that some people have very likely discovered some of the faculties
which that that we moderns have no experience or idea of and by the way it once once we realize
that we're aware of a very only a very limited array of the faculties natural to our waking
consciousness or accessible to our waking consciousness once we become aware of that
and I want to caution people against using drugs for this exploration there's a wide number of reasons
why I would make that caution but once we once we become aware of that we become capable of
trailblazing we become capable of forging new terrain and not merely for ourselves
but for what but terrain that can be shared with others we can discover new faculties
that we can teach others how to discover we can blaze trails that others can later follow
and expand on we can recover to our waking experience faculties of intelligence and
consciousness sensitivities senses that have for thousands of years lain dormant in our people
and it is my hope that we will do this together and it's my hope that my own work may inspire
this kind of exploration the reason that I will caution against drugs is is a similar reason
that I would caution against using drugs to facilitate the acquisition of dreaming faculties
drugs interfere with our metabolism dramatically and they can damage or suggest faculties that
don't exist they can produce simulations of experience that are neither realistic coherent
nor useful although I've heard thousands of people claim you know that psychedelics is the
doorway to awakening and enlightenment and so on and so forth I've seen no nearly no examples of
that I'm not saying there aren't any I'm saying of the thousands of people that I've seen you know
raving about the powers of psychedelics not one of them has brought to me any specifically
communicable insight that is useful and transmissible in weight in there in the you know in our waking
world consciousness and so I again I'm not saying that there are no instances of that phenomenon
of the acquisition of useful intelligence or transmissible insight only that it's unimaginably
rare compared to the wild claims of you know awakening which I just not seeing the evidence of
that I've also seen many minds irreparably damaged or destroyed by exposure to drugs
and the simple fact is we don't need them right our consciousness is capable of changing its shape
so to speak it's the the the analogy of shape and when that shape changes our perceptions change
right and this is one of the things we can learn from our experience of psychedelic drugs that's
useful if we will pursue it without them right if we will pursue the disciplines that allow us
to change the shape and sort of resonance of our waking world consciousness we will discover new
faculties that for example there are indigenous people who in their culture it is said that they
have dream seers who can actually see what another person has dreamt they can see the
sequence of images at least and interpret it now to see the sequence of images is not the same as
seeing a dream because in a dream identity has extra dimensions of meaning and connotation and
suggestion and this is one of the really profound things about dreaming is is that
in the world of a dream the nature of identity is radically transformed and the necessity for
matching with waking world identity dissolves it's not there such that my sister can be a man
and and there are added to not added to maybe in the waking world they are subtracted or something
our experience of identity becomes
imbued with astonishing depth
and domains of meaning and connotation and character and implication and suggestion and
and so on and in our in our waking world by the way the child has something of this
in their experience of play yeah so when children are playing what they're actually doing
is investing their physical experience with the kinds of extra dimensions of meaning and character
and circumstance that a dreaming mind does but they're able to do it while they're awake
and we you know it is claimed that we grow out of this that's not what happens what happens is
it gets buried under layers and layers of normalization representational cognition
and the loss of dimensions of meaning identity character circumstance relationship
that is the result primarily of our exposure to formal representational cognition language
and culture and over time what happens is that repeated in structuring
buries the faculties that children use to play that they employ in play
and so too for those of us especially who are not artists or have you know powerful creative
outlets we lose fundamental aspects of our relationship with imagination and when that
happens there are profound repercussions psychologically metabolically in our character
so on and so forth
so it is said that in some cultures there are
people who have practiced the art who have acquired and practiced the art
of seeing into the dreams of another after they have had them
now certainly we must imagine that the people who have had dreams can remember some of their dreams
and thus would know if the dream seer
was able to actually do this or not right and although the dream seer might see into dreams
they the dreamer could not remember they would also see into dreamer dreams that the dreamer
could remember and thus the faculty could be validated now I recently had a very astonishing
experience where I had had some very important unusual dreams and a nightmare
and later that day I was very excited to meet a body of living water
which I will not name and whose name I do not know because the human name of this body of water
is not that body's name it's just what the humans call it
and when I got in the water of the lake it was very cold at first and I was expecting that
well very cold is relative it wasn't freezing but it was quite chilly and after two or three
minutes of adjusting to the temperature and becoming comfortable with it suddenly two things
happened I began to re-dream dreams I had had the night before including dreams I had not
recollected upon awakening and I felt this incredible powerful living pulse of something
I don't know what to call it other than the essence of dreaming as if this body of water
were filled with this essence and it awoke that essence in me caused me to re-dream dreams I had
the night before and filled me with this profound astonishing sense of non-ordinary
awareness and this is what I mean when I say we don't need drugs for this yeah and drugs can
damage or interfere or wrong foot us right we can they can put us on the wrong path I think
our our our natural faculties are much more trustworthy than the experiences we would
ordinarily have when we introduce drugs I'm not trying to tell other people what to do
I'm simply being honest about my own experience and concerns I want people to have
direct conscious experience of non-ordinary cognition and consciousness awareness and faculties
without being intoxicated and then if they've then had that experience and they want to experiment
briefly with with drugs I'm a little more open to that but I think there's a lot more damage
that ensues than there is progress from most of that behavior and so I'm highly skeptical of it
and I have had both kinds of experience right I've had non-ordinary experience that was
essentially imposed by drug use the use of psychedelics of various kinds um and then
I've had non-ordinary experience that was natural to my waking state consciousness not imposed by
drug use and the latter was I mean a thousand full deeper than anything that even very powerful
psychedelic drugs ever got close to um so it's not only that not now not all of my non-ordinary
waking world experience that wasn't associated with intoxicants was super powerful some of it was
very subtle and gentle but some of it was so staggeringly overwhelming that I could barely
survive it I want people to have the experiences that are available to them with their natural bodies
and consciousness and metabolism before they are exposed to the imposed non-ordinary cognition
of psychedelics so that they can tell the difference right and so that psychedelics doesn't
get there first and thus predispose them to expect kinds of things
or to look for certain forms of experience that actually don't matter they're not
particularly important or even useful they're just exotic right and there's lots of phenomenon
like that in the world right there's lots of phenomena super exotic but it's not very useful or
or healthy to engage in it doesn't get us anywhere yeah and if we we can become addicted to that kind
of thing we can become addicted to the spectacle to to the shiny you know surprising seemingly
novel stuff and and in so doing we can overlook the the fundamentally crucially important insights
and clues and motivations that would otherwise lead us to success
so these are some of my concerns about that but it does seem clear
that dreaming
dreaming suggests an array of non-ordinary faculties and in many cultures dreaming
is associated with either the soul again where do you make the cut right some cultures will say
there are nine different souls associated with your body some will say there are 37
some will say there are there are 10 right I mean some will say three
but dreaming is associated in almost every culture with phenomenon that in English we
would refer to as either metaphysical or spiritual I think the cuts we've made in English are very
crude and we should be cautious about them right the delineations we've made in English
are insufficient to properly expose us and motivate us for exploration
so we should we can use them but we should recognize how incredibly limited they are
and how limiting they can be if we believe them to be sufficient or complete
so on and so forth
and it's not necessarily a fact that we need new language although
new language sometimes can be useful it's just that I want us to see that the
the narrow delineations that we have in English are the result of cultural models
and knowledge traditions that are unfriendly to non-ordinary experience
that are essentially domineering in that they want to dictate the identity
and the nature of possibility our faculties so on and so forth
and we should resist that right we should we should see through that
at first we will explore where there is no language to help us yet
as we seek the faculties senses and forms of awareness that our unimaginably sophisticated
gift of human incarnation brings brings with us and it's it's really tragic I think
you know in the west us moderns maybe around the world we're we're dying inside because
the light
the light that nourishes our human hearts and and consciousness and awareness
has been dimming for thousands of years as these faculties have fallen away
as these experiences and traditions have disappeared and been replaced by representations
that are essentially like plastic dolls compared to what they represent and many of our modern
religions have this unfortunate status yeah whatever they might have originally referred to
is gone from our experience and so all that's left is this sort of domineering representation
that's contagious as all hell but relatively ignorant and maybe even lethally toxic and that's
very unfortunate um however this is part of the problem with our human relationship with
representational consciousness and particularly with formal representational cognition that is
the inclination to encode identity in tokens trees of tokens and relationships
that are insufficient to even point toward the identities thus encoded and over time continue
to degrade in a fashion that resembles lossy compression um in computing terms if you take
something like if you take a video and you compress it in a lossy way right where you're
going to lose half the data in the compression and then compress it again in a way where you're
going to lose three quarters of the data and then keep doing something like that eventually you get
just a mangled mess of nothing there's no data left right and pretty short order too and this is
one of the problems with our relationship with representational cognition and with what Korzybski
would call time binding alfred Korzybski the author of science and sanity which is the inclination
to pass on traditional um models concepts and tokens generation to generation there's a woodpecker
again a different one i think though i've noticed one in this vicinity for the past few days and
i suspect we must be approaching mating season for these creatures in this in this you know where i
live so this is part of the problem with representational cognition over time and particularly
it's unfortunate but both science and religion have deeply contributed to the lossy aspect
of our relationship with with concepts ideas identity names um characteristics
dimensions of character functions and dimensions of functions these have been crushed down to an
incredibly narrow and uninhabitable array of reference as time has has progressed time binding
is the the passing on to generation uh to each new generation of of the well of of some portion
of the previously conserved knowledge of uh ancestral peoples so for an example for an example um
a friend of mine who is an indigenous man
is involved in indigenous ceremonial activity and he told me that
one of the people who taught the younger generation some of the ceremonial songs
was so old that he could barely sing and since this was the only person the young
man could learn the songs from they learned to sing them the only way you can really learn
is to emulate them they learned to sing them like an old man who can barely sing and
someone who actually knows the songs cannot sing with these people because
they one cannot even understand the words that are in the songs they are mangled and the young
men are singing like an old like an exhausted old man because they're they're emulating him whereas
the songs should have like this vitality in them this sort of pulsing vitality that's necessary
to move our to change the shape of our consciousness right and this is one of the techniques
i won't call it a technology because i i don't see it as that it's something very unusual it has
features of function and identity that we don't have language for in waking consciousness you know
we might say it's supernatural that's insufficient um that's it's the wrong word it's
i suppose i could come up with some term but it's not the term we need it's the experience
right so the ceremonial songs of ancient peoples and the ceremonial traditions of
ancient peoples are one of the places that we can find inspiration and intelligence to pursue
the explorations that will help us to recover the faculties that are natural to our waking
consciousness and yet inhibited by it and are the likely produce
of something that resembles the opposite of lucid dreaming
and that opposite is not lucid waking again we're missing language here and i'll need to invent
a neologism a new word for what i mean but what i mean is the intrusion of the dreaming
conscious the meaningful intrusion the coherent intrusion of the dreaming consciousness into our
waking world experience without collapsing it into a dream and ceremony is authentic ceremony
is one of the techniques with which we can produce such transformations
and explore them and these techniques also deeply affect will generally deeply affect
our dreaming mind and again this is something i've had thankfully i've had direct experience of
so space is not the final frontier awareness is the fundamental frontier and that will never
change and i suspect that there are forms of awareness that would allow us to explore space
without the need for vehicles and to explore of course space is time but to explore space time
and to participate in non-local temporality and spacetime both with the faculties implicit in our own
human nature but also those available by relationship with other intelligences
of kinds i cannot name for we have no language for them and yet i know them to exist
and they don't merely exist far away they exist near at hand
hidden from our ordinary awareness in the ecologies the insects the animals the plants
the microbes with which we are surrounded and of which we are composed
a profound adventure awaits those of us willing to participate in this exploration
and it's not without its dangers but in my mind in my view the dangers of the
catastrophically narrow and nearly uninhabitable
consciousness most of us experience while awake and working at jobs and so on and so forth
that's a far more dangerous thing and produces endless catastrophes of result
our modern societies are soul toxic they're soul killing
and we must i believe recover the hope of something that nourishes our interiority
it's very loud hawk
going to pause for a moment we need we need to have experiences
authentic experiences trustworthy coherent experiences that nourish our interiority
and that
refresh and revitalize our dreaming
no one's going to do that for us we're going to have to do that
within for each other together we're going to have to do that for ourselves
and it takes some courage and some passion and some curiosity
but the dreaming mind is made of those so it will naturally be attracted to
these these tasks and one of the dangers is that the waking mind loves narratives right
loves models and explanations it wants things it can grasp and manipulate and it can become
very domineering in this sense so that we are prone to keep developing theories right
that is not what i'm after at all in fact that's the opposite of what i hope for
and that would be really that's a really dangerous that's one of the real dangers of this
kind of activity is that the waking mind just prefers stuff it can hold on to
and and grab on to and manipulate so it loves theories and narratives and descriptions and so
on and so forth that's not what we need we don't need theories of dreaming we need the return of
the faculties that underlie dreaming and the faculties that are dreaming aspect can
resurrect in our waking awareness consciousness and experience yeah
so we should be cautious about theory formation we should be cautious about narratives
we should be cautious about explanations we see so much of this kind of produce in
in our culture in the media that surrounds the topics that we have
gathered together under the rubric of the paranormal right endless theories and models
and stories and narratives and so on and so forth the same kind of thing conspiracy theory
is the same you know is another domain where narratives and concepts and models prevail
um and i want us to be very cautious about that kind of thing in our
explorations in our attempt to recover some of the faculties that i've here spoken about
i think there was there was in my mind a few moments ago by the way the attempt to remember
something i think is is related somehow to dreaming um and our experiences of meaning
and of understanding what we call understanding which is to translate just tokens into something
meaningful that we can relate with those faculties also seem to me to depend upon something very
similar to dreaming and when we when we use the word imagination what we're referring to
again seems deeply related to the dreaming faculties
now what was it
seems to have something to do with people talking about dreaming or
remembering dreams i'm sure that as soon as i stop making this video
i will recall it it would be great if i could pause
but i don't think we've got that feature i'm gonna check something really quick here i'll be right back
you
Some people have spoken about the idea that our waking experience is actually a kind of
dreaming, a subset of dreaming, that we are trained to do so that we're not seeing what's
actually here. We're dwelling in a kind of group-imposed representation. This model,
I have just cautioned us about models and narratives, this model has been popularized
by the writings of Carlos Castaneda, a spectacular liar who nonetheless communicates information
that can be very useful. That's my perspective on Castaneda's work. So in that view, and
it's a view that I have some resonance with, some harmony with, our waking world experience
is being composed by faculties that could be used for other astonishing things, including
other forms of travel. And this is one of the things that I haven't touched on yet that
I intended to. Some forms of dreaming, remember I've said that there are thousands of faculties
and we're familiar with a very small portion of these. Some forms of dreaming allow us to
experience travel of unusual kinds. And again, travel is too narrow an idea because it's not as
if our physical body necessarily travels to another place and yet it is possible for an aspect of us
to be transported to another place or time or situation, to be with other minds while our body
is unconscious, and perhaps even to take on other forms, non-human forms. So there are a vast
array of possible faculties. Now, some might be inclined to argue, well, you don't really take
on another form, you just have some experience in your mind. But I think those perspectives are
naive. They are materialistically naive. They are naive in the same way that staunch materialism is
naive. Of course, everyone's entitled to their own perspective. I'm not trying to tell anyone
what to think or believe. What I'm trying to do is present us with an array of perspectives
that will empower us to begin the explorations and discoveries that I think will transform
our ideas and capabilities as human beings dramatically and will return to us some of the
incredible diversity of potential experience, opportunity, relation that has so long been
buried under our representational overlays. There are many things that can assist us in
these explorations. Authentic transmission of ceremonies from people whose cultures are
thousands of years older than ours. Deep attention to living places and the relationships in them,
participation in those relationships, meaningful participation.
We're living in a world that has been conceptually stripped of more than 90%
of what's actually accessible and going on here. I'm hoping we could return even 10%
of that to our direct, accessible, volitional experience. That's an achievable goal in my view.
It's achievable in the lifetime of a single human being. Such human beings, particularly if
they're cautious about forming narratives and explanations, can produce astonishing results
in those people they can assist in discovery and learning what they have discovered and learned
in transmission of those skills and faculties. In indigenous cultures there is a tradition
called transfer, and this is a ceremony whereby
once again the language, we don't have the language to encompass it. I'll try. It's a ceremony whereby
non-ordinary relationships and faculties and skills and opportunities and protections
can be shared from a group or a person, an individual, to another group or person.
And these ceremonies are not like those we are used to in the West. They may appear superficially
simplistic. That's the result of the iceberg effect, to put it mildly.
What we will see on the surface is extremely modest compared to what is actually occurring
during one of these ceremonies,
and I feel very grateful to have ever experienced even one in my lifetime.
It is inexplicable, thankfully inexplicable, and it's also the kind of thing that we don't,
there are many aspects of our human experience and even our interiority that not only resist
discussion. They should not be sullied by being spoken of in the face of the awe
and authentic reverence that we may have during such experience. We must remain silent.
They do not belong to culture. They belong to something we have no name for
or that we have names for, but these names are too value laden to be accurate.
There are aspects of our interiority and what we can share together that must properly remain
unverbalized, that we should not make concepts or models or narratives about,
and even that we should not speak of or very much resist the urge to speak of or speak of
only very subtly or refer to only indirectly, and this is part of the mystery of the non-ordinary
aspects of our humanity and our interiority that have been lost, for in our time we seem to think
everything is fodder for vocalization, so I'd just like to caution
that not everything should be spoken of, and I too am still learning about this. This is still new to me,
and I'm so fascinated and excited by the opportunity to speak about these matters
that I may be incautious and speak of things
well and just speak of these kinds of things when
they should not necessarily all be spoken of. I'll take the risk for the moment
while still acknowledging that
some things are too profound and in a sense too holy
to be
subjected to our waking
representational verbal consciousness.
In fact we might benefit from having the opposite happen, we might benefit from having our waking
verbal conceptual consciousness subjected
to that which is beyond its scope, is divine, is ecstatic, is holy, is sacred,
is fundamentally beautiful and true,
and by these words I do not indicate narratives and concepts, but
direct, experienceable relationships.
Thank you for joining me on this exploration, one that I am sure will continue.
It's funny, almost every time I make a video shortly thereafter, five or six or ten or fifteen
things will come into my mind, which I suddenly realize, oh I had forgotten, you know, I should
have spoken about this or that and so on and so forth, so I'm sure we will continue
to explore together and I welcome your questions, comments, thoughts, perspectives, speculations
and the opportunity to explore together.
So just as I expected, shortly after finishing the video I remembered something I wanted to include,
the thing that I had forgotten about, which is that when we are awake
and we speak about dreaming, as I've been doing for an hour and a half now,
what I refer to as our dreaming mind and I think of it as
a number of other selves, not just as a secondary self, but as a number of other
aspects of who I am, who I can be, my identity. The dreaming aspects of our consciousness,
when we speak of them, they listen, they wake up
and when we do the things that invoke them, they pay attention, they get very excited
because I think our dreaming mind is really fascinated by what happens across the gap
in the world of waking, where when it comes to that transformation, essentially
it undergoes something like death. So I think our dreaming mind is extremely curious about
in the same way our waking mind is curious about what happens across the gap of dreaming,
our dreaming mind is fascinated and deeply curious about why do I collapse every morning,
why do I disappear every morning, what do I disappear into, who's that guy who takes over
and runs the ship on the other side or who's that gal, however we want to think about it,
who takes over, like what is that thing that causes me to be evicted from the vehicle
and of course these are analogies, but the dreaming mind has its own
kinds of memory and curiosity and passion and desire and it pays attention when we're paying
attention to it, particularly in the waking world. It's as if these other aspects of myself
can hear me and they awaken and become very attentive when we speak, particularly when we
speak with reverence and respect and curiosity and wonder about the world of dreaming. So one
of the ways that we can bridge that gap between these two worlds and it's a very sophisticated
array of differences and gaps is by speaking meaningfully about it together. In many
ancient cultures, the morning time was often spent sharing dreams
and some people today still have this habit which I think is wonderful, although many people find
nothing more, they find it extremely tedious and do not want to hear about other people's dreams
at all. Sharing about dreams, sharing dreams, speaking about dreams, exploring dreaming together
while we're awake, is one of the profound ways that we can catalyze the processes of
awakening and discovery that I've been speaking about and as I've said, the dreaming mind listens
when we speak about it while we're awake. It also pays attention when we pay attention, right?
If we record, if we do what we call recording our dreams, which really is recording the skeletal
remains of a dream, the plot, then the dreaming mind notices that we're doing that when we're awake
and if we practice remembering our dreams, we will improve the faculties involved in dream memory
and these things are very important to be aware of. It is as if there are other
selves that exist only when we are dreaming and they want to understand, they want to know
what is the other world that lies across that gap and why do I disappear when the morning comes?
What happens to me? What happens to the mind that I was dwelling as, right?
So in the same way, our waking consciousness disappears and then transforms into dreaming.
When we awaken, our dreaming consciousness tends to disappear and then transform into
into the waking version, the waking shape and it's very curious about this other world
over here in which we think, in which identities are dependable, continuous, contiguous,
in which locations don't transform, in which aspects of identity are lost or flattened, explained.
So this is something that's very important to understand. The dreaming mind is curious about
the waking world in a way not dissimilar to how our waking mind can become very curious about
the dreaming world and it listens when we speak about it as if there's only one it,
there may be they, maybe they listen when we speak about them, these aspects of consciousness
and they are sensitive to our reverence, our curiosity, our passion.
And if we honor them, they pay attention. If we pretend they are of no account, they pay attention.
And also we can speak to our dreaming mind from our waking consciousness in a number of ways.
One of those I've been demonstrating by just talking about dreaming now while I'm awake,
but when we lie down to go to sleep or to take a nap or whatever we're doing or to have a visionary
moment, we can speak to our dreaming mind within our body and there are many different ways of
doing this and some of them might be non-verbal. We might draw pictures about while thinking of
what we desire, we might draw pictures while we're awake or we might dance or we might sing,
but we can also speak and if we are to speak to the dreaming mind, it's been my experience
that what works best at least for me is to move my consciousness, the felt sense of its
location to move that down from my head deep into my belly.
Deep, deep, not just into the root of the belly, but deep inside and to speak
from that place in the belly. I believe that our internal organs are deeply involved in dreaming.
It's not merely a phenomenon that's happening in the brain. Blood flow is changing or organ
function is changing, metabolism is changing throughout the body and for some reason my
dreaming mind seems to be especially responsive if I speak with it from deep within my belly.
These are a couple of things that I wanted to add to the video this afternoon. I'm sure other
things will occur to me once I'm finished here, but I'm just grateful to be able to include them
in the video today and I'm not sure how I'm going to plug this in. Maybe I'll append it at the end
and that's the most likely thing. So once again thank you for joining me and I hope your dreams
open up and flower and are astonishing and rich and beautiful and evocative and transformative
and educational just as the nature of dreaming itself always is. Thank you.
