So, I'm here today with my friend Tyler, who I've come to know through a unique series
of historical accidents.
And this is Darren Stevenson.
I'm really excited to have a chance to talk with Tyler one-on-one.
It's the first time we've had this kind of conversation or this opportunity.
Our previous contacts have been through email and on the Extinction Audi meetings.
So, yeah, Tyler, I'm so glad to have you here today.
Really excited to have a chance to talk together.
Yeah, likewise.
So, I'm curious, I'd like to know more about how we came to know each other because I think there's a backstory here.
Possibly, I don't even know, but might involve you somehow becoming aware of my work.
So, yeah, tell me anything you've got.
How did you come to be aware of me?
I discovered your channel at some point about two years ago.
And I shared your information or your channel with the Extinction Audi.
At some point, they contacted you and then I was informed of their involvement with you last summer.
I see. Yeah, I remember them reaching out to me and there's a rather strange backstory there where...
So, Sophie mentions, Sophie reaches out to me and mentions both the Jejeune Institute,
which I was the alpha initiate of, I was the first person on that scene.
And then, apparently in your desiderata by Hugh,
there's a segment where there's a bunch of glyphs.
And those glyphs come from an anomalous situation in 2007 in the San Francisco Bay Area
that was later known as the Carrot C-A-R-E-T Drone, or the Isaac slash Carrot Drone.
And those glyphs, I was the first person to make a chart of all of the glyphs and build the forms that a font could be generated from.
I didn't actually generate that font, but my work was probably involved in generating that font.
So, I thought that was a really unique set of coincidences.
I wasn't clear whether or not someone in the Extinction Audi was aware of my involvement with the Jejeune Institute or not.
So, yeah, then I reached out to them a few weeks past and I ended up in a meeting.
But you and I didn't, I don't think I heard your voice until maybe, what, six or seven months ago?
I could be wrong about that. What's your recollection?
We met around Christmas. That was my first encounter.
Yeah. Please continue.
Well, until then, I had only been watching the Extinction Audi meetings.
So, I only became a direct participant around that time.
Oh, I see. So, you had not been directly participating in the Extinction Audi meetings until that time? Is that correct?
Yes.
Oh, wow. Okay.
And was my showing up in some way, uh,
catalytic? Yeah, once I realized that you were a member of the group, I wanted to participate.
Yeah, I remember my first, the first time I, so, so one of the reasons we're having this conversation is that
I've been reading Tyler's posts to the group, which are private.
You know, they're sort of in the email chat and there is a Reddit channel, but it's not particularly active.
And a few months ago, we began to play with the idea of doing what we refer to as missions, which are really experiments.
And Tyler had proposed a mission involving.
Good, how should I put this? Good, get his theories about light and the spectrum.
Utilizing prisms and I participated in that experiment.
But I just remember like the first few times I heard you speak.
I was pretty shocked at the breadth and depth of your.
Intellect your curiosity, your passion, your capacity to resist what we might call prevalent biases in science and physics.
And I also, I kind of heard this other.
Not sure what to call it an undertone.
A kind of urgency in your pursuit of understanding awareness and particularly insight.
And so that's, that's how we got here today. The last conversation.
That I was involved with you, you were really just blowing my mind and you know, I've been around.
It's pretty difficult to surprise me, but you don't seem to have too much trouble doing that. And I'm, you know, I'm totally hoping that some of that might be going on today.
So, yeah, I was just really enthusiastic about getting your voice out into the world and also just having, you know, some open conversations outside of the outside the purview of the extinction audience. So, yeah, really excited about this, this chance to begin that process today.
And hopefully this will just be a sort of introduction to future discussions and elucidations.
All right, so I do have some questions for you. I'd like you, if you're willing to share anything about your childhood and your education that you think might have led you.
You know, that might have been important in your development that led you to the pursuit of awareness and insight and understanding.
And in case that's not specific enough, particularly anything that was highly motivating or anything that was troubling in such a way that it set you on a quest.
And of course, you know, since this is public, obviously you don't want to share everything that's personal, but anything you might want to share about that would be helpful.
Well, when I was a child, I was motivated to engage in certain kinds of ritualistic behaviors, which I think tied into my later intellectual pursuits.
You know, when I was a child, I was interested in how my breath interacted with my environment, and I became fixated on how my motion through space affected the course of history in a more general sense, a very vague sense.
And through that kind of meditation or concentration, I found myself almost entranced. I could, I could enter certain kinds of like hypnotic states, which I found extremely enthralling and invigorating.
Those sensations I think were like obsessions or almost like narcotics, I became addicted to this feeling of being ejected from historical time in a certain sense.
And as I grew up, as my, my mind developed, those initially physiological fixations became much more linguistic or intellectual.
So today, I almost exclusively read aloud to myself.
I need to feel the reverberation of my voice in my throat, in order to absorb the information that I, you know, conjure up.
So, so even today, my intellectual activity is still somewhat rooted in this more primitive, you know, physiological experience that I had when I was a child.
So I find that interesting, like, I can, I can notice that about myself.
You know, this very profound.
I'm sorry, please continue.
Oh, just this kind of progressive transformation of like this initially kinesthetic experience into a linguistic or intellectual experience.
That transformation characterized my development, I think as a person.
So I can mention that. And something about that is obviously magical or even esoteric. Yeah.
I notice immediately, so there's a few things that are very clear to me. One is that your, when you speak, your voice is very compelling, your vocal music is consistent, rich.
There is a sense of it being controlled.
I'm not sure exactly what I mean by that, but right. Yeah, you don't range over a broad array of tones. There's a sort of intentional focus in a specific, I think the word is tamper.
And your speech is also the cadence is consistent. And it's compelling without being.
That's the right word.
So without using volume or transitions in tone to achieve the, the momentum or the, the transfer of energy is actually a clear way of saying that.
I was impressed by that immediately when I first heard you speak, because I tend to be sensitive to vocal music and people's vocal rhythms and cadences and the whole range of their vocal behavior and yours is quite peculiar and fairly in like it's intensely effective, if that makes sense.
Right. Yeah. So, I mean, this is also generally how I read to myself. I try to maintain this kind of consistent cadence.
I find myself conscious of my breathing, the way that my breath moves through my mouth, the pressure that my tongue exerts on, you know, the roof of my mouth and so on.
There are features of somatic experience that are often remarked upon in specific traditions of meditation, which I suspect you are aware of.
Hindu meditations.
Meditation in the fight of a daunta.
There's careful awareness of breath specific places in the body where the breath can be felt, particularly at the openings of the nostrils back of the throat.
Top of the mouth.
You know, one of the things that I'm reminded of by what you were just sharing, which I think is super. I mean, it's extremely fascinating.
And I have a lot more questions about it is that we are now in our modern time.
We're starting to hear a lot of very skillful and experienced people talking about somatic intelligences, right, like the visceral senses of being human and the nonverbal aspects of our human intelligence.
And when you describe your experience as a child, which must have been extremely confusing for your parents and we're going to get to that in a moment.
I'm reminded of somebody who is born with an intense connection to the somatic and visceral intelligences of your body and linking these to your intellect, your awareness and your motivations.
I'd love to hear anything you'd like to like if you'd like to give us a little picture of something that might have happened in your room when you are not being observed by others, and you are playing or practicing with these faculties.
What would what would it be like what what what did you experience and what might someone else observe.
I found myself typically observing some scene in my room.
Concentrating on the arrangement of the objects in relation to my own body and its movement.
I feel this kind of energy accumulate in my body, like a certain kind of tension.
And I would kind of retain that tension as long as possible, or to the most optimal point for it to be released. So this kind of release of energy felt like a form of chaos or a certain kind of explosion.
So I would often like explosively like move my, my hand in a certain direction.
I would feel myself overcome by this kind of involuntary, purely physical process, almost like an automaton.
I would simply observe my own movement through space, almost like a work of art, so I almost externalized my motion, becoming as a kind of second observer through this kind of process of becoming entranced, if that makes any sense.
So I guess it looked like a certain kind of vacillation between stillness and an explosion.
So these kinds of violent explosive chaotic movements would preoccupy me if I was just kind of, you know, sitting by myself in my room, even something like a pencil on the desk, you know, I would concentrate on the pencil study its position in space.
And through my breathing, I could accumulate this certain kind of tension or energy in my chest or in my, in my body as a whole, which I would then release in this kind of sudden spontaneous motion.
And then I would observe how the the object moved in response to that kind of release of tension.
And that observation brought me this kind of sense of fulfillment or satisfaction.
It felt like I was observing some like purely physical process by turning myself into an automaton or something. Yeah, and that sounds kind of bizarre but I can I can characterize it like that.
It may just be very difficult to describe in ordinary language, whether or not sounds bizarre isn't isn't so much the issue, but I want to understand a little better suppose you're looking at the pencil, you feel the buildup of the energy.
You express it in a sense, you hold on to it for a moment, build it, and then you express it with sudden movement.
What, what then would change about the pencil's location in space, would it, would you be touching the pencil. Tell me more.
I felt like I was canceling any kind of prior historical influence that I may have exerted on the pencil.
So, I was effectively like undoing or annulling a certain influences and time that may have issued from some other kind of cognitive state, which I regarded as less than ideal or less than beautiful.
So I was, I was engendering something like beauty. It was a, I mentioned a work of art.
So I was basically turning my body into a work of art that could cancel historical contingencies or rough spots. Yeah.
So there was a very clear distinction in my experience between the sacred and the profane. So in order to enter into this sacred state of consciousness or this kind of sacred space.
I needed to accumulate this energy for it to be released.
And that release was always quite fleeting it was this fleeting sense of dwelling in the right state of consciousness.
So the state of consciousness in which I could undo certain historical mistakes.
You know, living in living in profane time, in other words, you know, because when I interact with objects in profane space, I tend to use objects as, you know, these utilitarian artifacts or tools.
I don't use them without fully understanding them. And that meditative state, I think was capable of undoing some of those influences, because I felt like I was actively maybe changing or influencing the state of this, this object.
So I needed of the concept of sin, not necessarily in the religious tradition, but in the philosophic tradition, as of having miss acted somehow or miss appropriated being or miss understood relationships, and the possibility of rectification
and sinning. Yes, right.
Okay.
And so, where is the space. It seems as if you may be saying that the space in which the problem existed, as you experienced it then and I'm not sure if you still experience it this way because we're speaking of your childhood.
So is that space temporality, or is it both temporality and actual physical space, or is there a third thing involved, how, how would you characterize it.
I would characterize it as preeminently temporal. Yeah.
So it's as if there's a problem in time.
And perhaps it's a relational problem.
Yes.
So pre orientation of relational activity creates something that must be resolved.
Feel free to correct that, you know, like, yeah, whatever. Yeah, I think I was really struggling with chronological time. I was struggling with history.
So, even when I was younger, my sense was that I was ejecting myself from history by entering into these states of consciousness.
Even then I understand what I was doing more clearly now.
But yeah, that I think that would be worth mentioning.
I'm astonishingly profound.
I suspect there are others who would not merely understand what you're trying to communicate here, but would have had some experience of something very similar themselves.
Have you ever encountered any, any people who did.
I don't think so.
And how did your parents respond to this situation and give us some idea of, you know, your age at which this started to become perhaps in some way obvious and or something that had to be addressed somehow.
Yeah, I think it manifested between the ages of 10.
And 16.
Yeah.
I mean, my parents were concerned.
Because I needed to go through these rituals constantly.
Even in the context of seemingly mundane everyday tasks.
Like the clothing that I would wear.
I was extremely conscious of the way that my clothing was interacting with my body.
So, my mom quickly
realized what was going on at some level and she became concerned.
I bet.
Unfortunately, there's probably no
way for your parents, regardless of how enlightened or unenlightened they may have been to have understood what your experience
from whence your experience was originating, what your experience was actually like.
And I'm guessing, did you ever attempt to explain any of this to them?
Did you feel you were capable of explaining it? How did you feel?
I could describe some of the qualities of my experience.
But I had no theory of what I was experiencing or coherent description.
As I do now, I think, to some extent.
And so what happened? Were you psychologized, medicated? What took place?
I received therapy for it and I was medicated. Yes.
I was diagnosed with OCD and I was given all sorts of medicines.
And how do you feel now about what happened in that process?
I think, well, something about it is unfortunate.
But I think it makes sense. My parents only wanted the best for me and they were trying to look out for me.
And I was troubled by what I was experiencing at some level.
It was an all-consuming preoccupation which detracted from other aspects of my life.
But those currents are still in my psychology, as I mentioned.
So today, when I read a book, for example, I treat the book similarly to the way that I used to treat all other objects.
So now, I can almost characterize this as if what I used to experience for every object has been subordinated or sublimated to a specific class of objects.
And my way of relating to those objects.
And that's specific classes, books.
Yeah, literature, yeah.
And is that a relief?
In a certain respect, I suppose.
Yeah.
It does seem to be very demanding if all objects have to be treated in a similar fashion.
Right, exactly.
Because then, essentially, you have to unbind from historical time and relation any object upon which your attention comes into your attention, I suspect.
Right, and the trance is impossible to maintain indefinitely anyway.
So it helps to have a specific class of object through which you can enter the hypnotic state.
This is very profound. Have you ever actually experienced hypnosis? Have you been hypnotized by someone else?
I haven't.
I can't move.
Go ahead, please.
Well, I read about hypnosis initially in the context of Jacques Valet's works, and he convinced me that hypnosis tends not to add significant data to, you know, paranormal recipients.
So I took his word for it and I just, I haven't received hypnosis or, you know, formally.
Although in my view, I just tend to hypnotize myself.
I do it fairly regularly.
Are you able to generate trance at will?
Yeah, it takes effort.
But I think I can do it.
I'm just curious about these matters because I'm extremely fascinated by the features of human experience, awareness and behavior that are collected under this rubric.
I've had some experience with them myself. Some of that experience I find very surprising.
I'm still trying to understand something that resembles.
So one of the topics that fascinates me, this won't be a long lecture, but is the historical arcs that led to the kinds of minds and common mental experience that we have today.
We might think of this as the origins of consciousness.
And so I'm very curious what historical developmental situations led to the possibility of what we would call hypnosis where, effectively, it seems,
human, some human being either gives to another human being the authorization to direct their consciousness or the other human being.
Effectively, this is probably the wrong word, but in chance, the subject.
And I find this very fascinating. I find its implications about the nature of consciousness and identity quite provocative.
Because it violates a lot of what we would ordinarily think about.
What we would commonly think about the nature of personality, identity and consciousness. Does that make much sense.
Yes, it does.
So these are, these are some of the reasons why I'm very curious about that.
I've been, I've begun a conversation with we leisure or Barlow, who is a mesmerist.
There are very, very few of these folks around these are people who can produce trance non verbally, sometimes instantaneously.
I'm looking forward to continuing that conversation, but we can return back to what was going on here so about what time about what ages you began to receive therapy and or medication.
It must have been in my early teens. Yeah, 1314.
And, you know, there's so much more that we're going to get to here, but I do want to know a bit about your history and I want the listeners to hear some of your experience of this because many, many of the unusually minded people I know have been tormented by medication.
Do you feel comfortable saying what medications you were subjected to, or we're given to you.
I don't even remember.
We're talking things like that.
I took Ritalin. I was hospitalized at one point, because I was depressed.
I don't remember.
Okay.
Yeah, that's fine. It's probably maybe it's even better that you don't remember who knows.
And then at what point did did that taper off the the the obsessions or know the medication and the therapy medication I stopped taking medication around the age of 18 or 19.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, that was a deliberate choice. I chose to stop.
Was it challenging? What did you what did you experience?
Well, medication helped me do well in school.
Gave me a lot of energy. It was like cappuccino every morning. Right.
Made me want to be busy.
So I think that was really the function of the medication in the first place.
It allowed me to withstand the tedium of schooling. That was really served.
Yeah, basically, just give the kids methamphetamine and they will, you know, toe the line of the ridiculous, mostly ridiculous.
Subjugation that they're going to experience in the classroom.
Right, right. And, you know, as a kid, I wanted to do well in school and I wanted to make friends proud. So.
It served its purpose.
And then after a certain point, it failed to serve any purpose whatsoever. So.
Um, so was the process of coming off the medication challenging and.
You know, how did your parents respond? How did the authorities respond?
They were supportive, I think.
Okay. That's that's helpful. Yeah. I mean, the medication never.
Synergized well with my way of thinking. So I feel like a zombie or feeling depressed.
Here and there and yeah, I just felt like I was in prison.
I hear you, man.
You know, I want to start to turn the conversation toward your interest and experience with the non ordinary.
But without dismissing what you shared about your, your childhood and your, your fascinations and your way of being in consciousness, which was certainly very different from probably almost everyone around you.
So, were you able to have friends? Did you play with other children? Tell me a little bit about your social.
Oh yeah, I mean, I always had a few friends.
Typically two at a time.
I had two friends at a time. Yeah, that's similar to my experience actually. Yeah.
I had two very close friend one or two.
And even this, the teachers at school were like, you know, I think something's wrong with Darren. Like, why is it? Well, he only plays with one child.
It's like, yeah. And what's the problem?
It wasn't actually entirely true for myself. I was friendly with broad a broad spectrum of children in elementary school, but I would only have one or two close friends.
I liked the other children generally and enjoyed.
I think I mostly enjoyed their esteem. So, but I wasn't.
I wasn't particularly what they call it extroverted.
Oh, I see.
Yeah, I mean, that's so did you did you engage in play with other children?
Toys and things.
I think so. Yeah, I think so.
In preschool, I can remember playing with other children. Yeah.
And what about toys in general in childhood?
Well, I used to enjoy making these picturesque scenes with my toys, which I think I mentioned previously.
You know, I would arrange my toys and these kinds of sets.
Like crystalline images that I could meditate on really I was meditating on these scenes.
With these toys, I would position them carefully and and bask in those kinds of relations. Yeah, I think I was experiencing a certain kind of satisfaction from that.
The interesting implication of what you're saying here is that,
and, you know, this is my own perspective and I'll take responsibility for it. And again, with anything that I may, you know, offer in the conversation, please don't hesitate to correct me or
modify, you know,
improve what I what I may have said. But it seems to me that you're occupying a kind of a transcendental position that isn't really in ordinary reality or what regular humans experience at all.
What do you mean by transcendental?
So when you talk about the the scenes that you would compose and their impact their impact on or how you related with them their impact on your consciousness or your awareness.
This is a very extraordinary, it seems to me, mode of relation with both the potential of toys.
Because what we might think of as regular children, right, they would take the dinosaur and they would imagine it being an actual dinosaur, perhaps, and maybe the worm would turn into the Jurassic world.
And they would, you know, march it around and maybe fight other dinosaurs or, you know, jet airplanes would come in and be Godzilla battles in their imagination.
You know, my imagination when I was in childhood was very profound and I could, the universe would transform around this, like, for example, just playing with a stick or some dirt.
Somehow there was this, you've seen it cartoonized in cartoons like Calvin and hoes, where he, you know, is playing with toys and he's sort of in an imaginary world with monsters and, you know, he's, he's kind of a godlike figure
in the world, which I was to in my imaginings, although the idea of gods wasn't a thing in childhood. It was more this perspective of the one who makes the world.
And perhaps this is a way in which all play of children is transcendental.
Because it's not as if they necessarily imagine themselves to be gods, but there might be a natural metaposition over where, okay, they don't merely see what's in front of them.
Another unique way of not merely seeing what's in front of you is on you is transcendental, I think to what ordinary children, if there are such things usually do when they play.
Did you ever play with toys in the way that other children played with them, even with other children?
Occasionally, yeah, I think so.
Okay.
Excellent.
With action figures and yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know what kinds of toys you had. I had Hot Wheels, Model Aircraft, lots of, I had a menagerie of animals and monsters and things.
I had Legos.
What else? I had books. I had, you know, we could make blanket forts and all kinds of stuff like that. Mad Hot Wheels cities. We used to build insane things out of Legos.
And that was, you know, all, I guess all through my childhood, probably from what, four or five when I began to play with toys, up until maybe 12 when that world began to collapse more or less intensely.
You know, we're told that we grow out of our imaginal play and so on.
I don't really think that's the case. I think something else is going on, but I'll leave that aside for the moment.
So, did you have any unusual or paranormal experiences as a kid with say, oh, by the way, what do you recall of your dreaming as a child? Anything?
I recall, yeah, snapshots.
Not my dreaming ever startled me or felt particularly abnormal.
My experience with, you know, the paranormal I think was fairly visceral.
Say more.
Oh, well, I underwent this series of experiences when I was 15 that transformed the way that I think about the world and catalyzed my interest in philosophy and, you know, the nature of science and human history.
You know, so, yeah, I had, I had this series of UFO experiences that deeply, you know, disturbed me initially, because everything about the world that I thought was coherent was undermined, and I was forced to think critically for myself about what the world could possibly be if such a thing could happen to me.
Yeah. Okay, so let's hear the history in sequence of these experiences.
So the first experience took place in March of 2009.
I was living in Connecticut at the time.
And I went for a walk with my dog one morning as I usually did.
I used to love to walk my dog through the woods. There was a wooded area near the house where I used to take him after school.
But in the morning, I would take him down the street just to the stop sign and back.
And, yeah, this one morning, as I was walking him, I saw this object in the distance that suddenly flew vertically and made this kind of noise.
It was like the sound of rushing air or wind, but it sounded mechanical.
It sounded like almost like a vacuum cleaner or a hairdryer, you know, the sound of air being pushed through some kind of mechanical device.
And, yeah, I watched this object fly vertically.
And, you know, I was scared. So I ran back to the house.
And as I stood in the front lawn, I watched it fly toward me.
And it flew directly overhead.
As the sun was rising, so I was able to see its shape and its color.
You know, as a triangular object, it had three lights on it.
These lights were white, but they were about the size of stars in the night sky. There were pinpoints of light that appeared to be extending beyond the surface of the object, almost like small bulbs or Christmas lights.
You know, instead of being embedded in the structure of the object, which I found interesting.
In the center of the object, there was this red light that appeared to be almost inset or inlaid.
As if it was sunken into the structure of the object.
The surface of the object itself appeared to be leathery. It had a kind of mesh around it.
And it flew directly overhead. It was within maybe 100 feet.
And it flew slowly making this mechanical noise.
And I watched it disappear over the horizon. It was like it was flying at tree top level.
And so that respond.
I wasn't actually looking at him at the time so I don't know what he was doing.
But he stayed with me. He was a pretty good dog. He always stayed by my side.
But I was looking up. I was looking at overhead.
Of course.
So what I found curious about that experience was that the object either was surprised by my presence.
But in general, it, you know, it flew in my direction, which I always found somewhat curious.
So it appeared to be startled by my, my appearance.
And then it turned to fly directly overhead. So I got a very good look at it, you know.
And it was in broad daylight.
Uh huh. Yeah.
So that was the experience that I had.
Okay, so it's pretty hard to
suppose that either a, you were having an imaginary experience.
You know, I'm aware of the capacity for humans to have hallucinations. Many of us have experienced them. We've experienced liminal states of consciousness and so forth, perhaps before sleeping or after sleeping.
But what you're describing sounds like an everyday occurrence happening in broad daylight.
You know, when you're walking your dog, even though you are someone who has experienced trance, there's no indication that you're in trance here, is there?
No.
Yeah.
And so you saw it, it seemed to approach you.
And then you fled or correct that for me.
I fled as soon as I saw it fly vertically because I was startled.
I watched it for a few seconds and then I went back to my front yard.
Could you still see it at that point?
Yep. I was basically running backwards. So I ran to the front yard looking behind myself as I ran.
Right. Okay.
Initially, I thought it was some kind of military aircraft. So I was very confused about what was going on.
Yeah, yeah.
And secondly, because the problem here is that if the tree of categories can be violated, that draws into question the entire tree.
Right. So if we see something or have we have an experience as a human being, but doesn't fit into the categories that we have, even if we have the category, you know, UFO or whatever, right.
If we have this kind of experience, the problem is that it draws the whole category tree into question, because now what we don't know what the universe is anymore.
We're not sure what that what the universe is. We don't know what the world is.
We're not sure what the sky is.
Right. Yes.
Because it fundamentally, it, it performs what I would call humans can do this theoretically in religions, it performs what I call an attack on the super container, which means that all the thing that all other concepts depend upon for their validation is drawn into questions.
That makes sense.
Yeah, it does.
If you have this experience at 15, you, you ran to your porch what happened next.
I just watched it fly overhead, and I continued to watch it until it disappeared.
So I saw it disappear over the trees.
And were the lights continuous to the flash. How was the lighting situation.
Yeah, the lights were continuous. They were steady pinpoints of light.
The red light seemed much more ambient, more vague.
But the white lights on each corner were sharply defined. Yeah, they were, they seemed to be almost like exhaust or some kind of the they appeared not to have solid boundary, like you would imagine a glass bulb.
Right.
They literally look like stars.
Yeah, distending from the side.
Yeah.
Um, was the shape and elongated.
Triangle or was it exactly, I guess, I don't know what the geometric term is it.
Yeah, it was an equilateral triangle.
Okay.
Yeah, so each exactly.
Great.
Okay, so what happened after that.
I ran inside. I told my parents, I think they were still asleep.
It was a, I think it was around 620am.
So my parents were still in bed.
And, you know, they, they didn't hear anything or see anything. So,
I went to school that day feeling really energized and baffled, obviously.
And I think I may have told one of my teachers that, you know, I experienced this,
this UFO or something.
You know, I looked it up on my computer and I realized that other people had seen
something like that before.
You know, and I was always generally curious about UFOs, you know, as a child.
You know, I would see, you know, documentaries on the history channel growing up.
So I knew where to look roughly for, you know, information.
So I found move on, you know, the mutual UFO network.
And through their database, I discovered that other people had experienced something similar.
So I submitted my own report.
And I was eager to speak to some of these move on field investigators.
Because I imagine that, oh, they must really know what's going on.
Maybe they, they have connections or they can help me understand.
So that happens sometime later, but
I take it you were quite disappointed in that goal.
I wasn't disappointed, but, you know, I realized that, well, I eventually realized that, you know, move on is
less than scientifically reputable.
So, you know, I subscribed to their magazine for about a year and
I just found their, their interpretation of this phenomenon to be rather
maybe archaic or one dimensional, you know, their emphasis on, on, you know, extra terrestrials and so on.
Now I totally reject for the most part.
Yeah, but I mean that day I just felt energized and excited because my world had been
profoundly, yeah, I guess, transformed or punctured.
My bubble was punctured. So I felt energized that day.
10 days later, I experienced another encounter with something very similar.
Around 1130pm on March 29th, 2009.
I was in bed trying to go to sleep.
And I heard this sound outside. It was like a rumbling sound of, you know, some kind.
So I leapt out of bed and I ran to the bedroom window and I sort of opened the blinds.
And I saw this massive object fly directly over the house from behind me.
And it hovered over the front lawn. It basically stopped in midair and it turned about its axis 90 degrees and flew to the left slowly gliding as it flew.
It was a dark black triangular object with these massive white floodlights.
They looked like portholes. I could almost see into the object through these floodlights or portholes.
And this object appeared to be black in color and it was a lot larger than the first one.
This object was about the size of my house and it was a fairly large house. It was in a suburban area.
So I ran outside and as soon as I emerged, I didn't see it. I didn't see anything.
But I did watch it disappear through my bedroom window. And as soon as it disappeared, I ran outside.
And I don't remember, you know, seeing anything.
That was only 10 days later. So I was sort of in this, I was swept away by these feelings of excitement and, you know, I became obsessed with like seeing it again. Yeah.
I was sort of troubled by it.
Did you suspect that how did you think of the phenomenon?
For example, did it, did you fit it into some category that might be familiar to us? Like, did you think that is a spacecraft?
That is a multi-dimensional vehicle. There are beings in there or what did you have any thoughts about what the character of the phenomena was?
I never developed a theory of what happened until much later when I started to investigate the writings of Jacques Valet and others.
Initially, I was prone to, you know, the mainstream theories about aliens and, you know, what you might find on the History Channel.
I mean, I was only 15 years old, so I saw this old man on the History Channel making these declarations and he seemed legitimate.
But as I grew up, I tried to reconcile my experience with what I knew about the world and I was struggling to make things add up in my mind.
It caused me to revaluate more basic assumptions about what we think the world really is or what human history is or what our scientific concepts are, you know, the nature of science.
How could such a thing allude modern science? Is that even possible? How could a child somehow discover these cosmic secrets or these cosmic phenomena which physicists on television proclaim are impossible?
You know, or unlikely or, you know, you have a conflict area, you know, what not.
Exactly. The conflict between what we might call, I'm going to try to say useful things here without getting too hyper articulate, but the conflict between consensus ontologies,
scientific ontologies, and interior ontologies, and there's probably a fourth dimension there that I didn't name which you're welcome to opine on if you care to.
Yeah, scientific ontology makes a lot of sense to me.
Every science presupposes some kind of ontology, so uprooting those ontological assumptions or presuppositions became something that really preoccupied my attention philosophically.
I just want to mention that what troubled me the most was that in both cases I was presumably or seemingly approached by this form of technology or intelligence.
I could never reconcile that with any kind of conspiratorial approach to human history.
I just I struggled to do that when I think critically about my memory of what happened.
I just always come up short.
There's some reason these objects were either drawn to me directly or were impelled to single me out for investigation or, you know, but whenever I run down these kinds of conspiratorial, you know, hypotheses or
give us an example, give us an example such a conspiratorial hypothesis, please.
What about a 15 year old child would be so interesting to someone with the capacity to build a machine like that.
I mean, and you can imagine all sorts of scenarios where someone like that exists, or, you know, you can imagine what their motivations might be.
You know, but the challenge is to square that with a coherent picture of the world is at least I understand it.
But I always leave myself open to these possibilities as I continue to learn more.
I try to remain open.
I mean, there are some kind of obvious responses to that question. But before I, you know, before I say much more about that.
I want to mention a couple of things just for people who are listening and feel free to correct me or as always right in our conversation.
So ontology the simple way to think about what is meant by this word is what is stuff. What is stuff.
Epistemology is how do we know how can we tell what stuff is or might be or what's meaningful what's going on.
And teleology is sort of like purpose, I think, or perhaps you could provide a simple idea for what teleology is.
Yeah, I think teleology is influenced from the future affecting the present.
Yeah, it's because you're far too sophisticated for the people around you.
We're just going to skip right over that. I'm kidding.
That's hilarious. Okay, really? So that, do you think that's the standard definition?
Well, this is what I think Aristotle meant by teleology. Before Aristotle was integrated into the Catholic Church.
Before the Catholic Church turned Aristotle into a Christian thinker.
Aristotle was thinking in terms of time. He was thinking in terms of causation.
When he spoke of purpose or teleology.
Yeah, so I actually, I think what you've said is extremely provocative, and it's provocative because ordinarily. So, okay, what do you think ordinary people think teleology means?
Well, I think ordinary people derive their interpretation of teleology from people like Descartes.
Descartes rejected teleology because Descartes imagined that we need to remove purposes from causal explanations in light of the mechanical philosophy.
Which is the idea that motion occurs through some kind of mutual collision of particles or
what Descartes called corpuscles before the modern atomic theory. Newton, I think, represented this transition away from Cartesian physics because Newton wanted to embrace the idea of action at a distance.
I mean, that was what made the concept of gravity so significant.
But in general, I think, you know, everyday people think that purpose means something like, you know, rise on debt or reason to exist.
Which in a certain sense, I think it does, but in a limited sense.
Me too. Yeah, me too.
In other words, you know, a modern scientist rejects the idea that the apple falls to the center of the earth because the apple wants to occupy the center of the earth.
Obviously, obviously meant for the center of the earth. Go ahead.
Well, Aristotle thought that earth was naturally attracted to the center of the cosmos.
Aristotle thought that place means something. Descartes rejected the idea of place entirely and replaced it with our everyday notion of space, right?
So in modern science, no such thing as place really exists. No object intrinsically belongs to any place in modern science.
So what makes all of our mathematical tools so powerful? We can we can extract or abstract an object from its context and treat it as some kind of, you know, abstract being in a coordinate system or in some phase space.
Contrived this whole notion of coordinate systems and, you know, grids in which we can manipulate or imagine the movement of objects.
So his rejection of teleology, I think was bound up with his emphasis on coordinate systems and the rejection of belongingness, which I think is still characteristic of modernity.
So today we we sort of feel like we no longer belong to any place and that I think that comes from people like Descartes ultimately in his perspective on physics, which Aristotle never shared.
Aristotle believed that place was a physical concept. So the place of earth is at the center of the cosmos for Aristotle, and he called that teleology, right?
Oh, really?
Yeah. So, and this also was, I think, influential in the alchemical tradition because the alchemical tradition derived a lot of its ideologies from Aristotelian physics.
Yeah.
So, so the alchemist was essentially quickening the tempo of nature.
And by quickening the tempo of nature, the alchemist was able to bring an object to its proper place, the place toward which the object naturally tends.
So the alchemist was a kind of midwife of beings in the world in a manner of speaking.
In line with Aristotelian notion of telos. Yeah.
Do you see some relation between this rectification of the objects, developmental path, and the intense fascination and awareness that you were experiencing in childhood?
Perhaps. Yeah.
I only, I noticed that in my own thought, there's, there's a, there's a relationship there of some kind. I don't mean to reify it, but
Well, the alchemical tradition, I think was much more specific than what I experienced.
Yes, of course, but I want to go back. I don't mean to, to break the line of thought here, but I want to go back to the question you asked about the objects in the sky.
If indeed they were even objects, the, because again, you have this problem of the violation of categories.
We today think of such things, usually we tend to as humans, we think of them as machines.
Other people such as Jacques Valais, one of my other friends, Mr. S, are not disinclined to consider that they could be projections of some kind, or even a sort of
legalization, right?
Because they often appear to move in ways that are not dissimilar to how something moves on a computer screen, for example, or might move on a computer screen.
Sure. Without concern, without concern for any physical, any apparent physical constraints.
Right. Yeah. Well, something about its motion I always found slightly unnerving, even to this day.
That doesn't surprise me. I mean, I imagine, first of all, this is a concept, or excuse me, this is a branch of experience that has fascinated me since childhood.
Obviously, I was my childhood occurred primarily in the 1960s and early 70s.
So we were, you know, this is the time, I probably read Eric Von Donikin's Chariots of the Gods when I was eight or nine, maybe.
We saw the movie a couple years later.
We considered, we were very curious about such topics in my family, particularly my father and I had long discussions about what are, what are UFOs.
I was fascinated by aerospace, jet aircraft missiles, all of these things.
Sorry, there's going to be a little noise from my background.
So, you know, I was extremely curious about these things, but I was primarily curious because I suspected having read quite a bit of science fiction in my youth.
And I can, you know, the parents of my mind, the primary parents of my minds, my mind and my intellect were science fiction authors up until gosh, late teens, early 20s when I began to read literature and a few other things.
But my primary, primary hope was that it might be possible to contact something that was actually intelligent.
I'm not sure if I felt the same way that I feel now when I was younger.
But even if I wasn't conscious of it, I felt very skeptical about what I would conceive of as the intelligence quote unquote of my, my species.
Because at the species level, most of what our species does does not only doesn't look intelligent, it looks reckless or misguided or on the sidle is a word I invented.
I coined that a long time ago, just like everything killing.
So my hope was that it might be possible. There might be other intelligences in time space that compared to us were vastly more intelligent.
And it could help us. You know, this is funny idea of the rectification, right, could help us to correct, or at least could introduce ideas and ways of knowing and ways of seeing and ways of understanding and perhaps ways of
contemplation and behavior that were much more trustworthy than what we usually see.
And again, you know, as a human being, we have this problem of being aware of the worst common denominator of human behavior or history, right.
I'm also aware of what I might call the best rare exemplars, or the best rare numerators or something like this if we're playing around with the language in the math.
Because we still rarely encounter truly beautiful, maybe in art and sometimes in science and sometimes in philosophy, and perhaps even sometimes in religion or spirituality.
We very rarely directly encounter brilliant examples of humans embodying and enacting the up ladder quote unquote potentials that we certainly are capable of exploring enacting considering reflecting upon helping each other to see or grow into.
What are your thoughts.
I tend to agree.
I only became conscious of the intelligence behind what I experienced later.
I began to intimate the possibility that the intelligence could be faster than what I initially imagined.
And what did you initially imagine.
Imagine some kind of biological alien intelligence from some other system.
You know, yeah, me too. But that was super exciting because I thought it's possible that they are vastly more intelligent than we are.
It seems very likely that they would be.
Yeah.
And yet, when I began to research these things and read books and so on about it. And this is before this became sort of it was always there was always a bit of a craze quote unquote thing about it.
But it wasn't culty. It wasn't yet culty.
It wasn't very culty until maybe the 90s. I mean, I don't know when I guess the Eurantia books came out in the 80s, which were essentially sort of an et religion.
Are you familiar with that at all.
Yeah. Yeah. So, but when I began to read books, there were a variety of very problematical things about books.
And one of them was there was almost not none but it was extremely uncommon that there was any kind of coherent record of the transmission of intelligence between the others and humans.
I found that very confusing. Right.
How could that be true.
You meet beings from the sky, or, you know, if we're going to be a little more exotic time space, or even more exotic.
And that which time space is some sort of less a hypostasis of right a lesser dimensionalization of something beyond time space which it very obviously these days, even physicists like our Connie and others have said categorically time space is doomed for sure that's not fundamental.
You've heard noises like this right.
Yeah, which I'm sure we both find fascinating and fraught with potential for what exciting new discoveries.
Although I want to say something very, very briefly before I continue on the slide.
I don't want the humans to make any more exciting discoveries at all.
I believe we can survive the discoveries we've made as a species.
I'm going to say some very kind of severe sounding things for a minute, but then we'll get back to the sort of regular conversation.
I don't think it's ethical to give the existing civilizations anything technological.
They will use it to destroy.
They'll destroy time space if they could get away with it. You know we hear these stories in some ancient religious texts about, well we need to stop the humans from doing from getting together.
Right, we need to confuse their languages, because if they have one language they will attack heaven.
There's noises like this in probably in certain parts of the Bible, or the apocrypha.
We hear noises like this around the the narrative of the Tower of Babel, right.
They're trying, they're actually trying to kill the angels and so forth. Yeah, we hear these kinds of noises.
And actually, I don't, I'm an anthropile, I love human beings, unlike many intellectuals who are misanthropes, but at the group level, we are so disoriented.
And what oriances or captures are orienting capacities at the group level. They look essentially like demons to me.
It almost doesn't matter if actual demons exist in in sort of the terrifying sense of demons rather than the edifying or transcending sense of Daimon teaching beings.
I mean, at the group level, we are a devastating nightmare, so I don't want there to be like, I would, you know, I'm kind of like, I would wave a flag that says no more discoveries in terms of technology.
And I think it's unethical for scientists who exist today to deliver their findings to modern civilization, societies, corporations, whatever, because it's just fundamentally going to be weaponized.
It's, you know, we're in this trap of a race to the bottom. Your thoughts.
Well, this is why I tend to be skeptical of disclosure in general.
Say more.
Well, I mean, my impression is that disclosure will be used to pedal purportedly alternative forms of technology under the guise of some kind of extraterrestrial intervention, which I find extremely questionable.
Wow. Okay, so paint a little cartoon of what that looks like for us, please.
The introduction of something like free energy in the midst of an energy crisis or a climate crisis, I think is a real plausible scenario.
Moving forward.
So, I mean, like, I mean, our government engages in all sorts of continuity of business operations and continuity of government operations. So, my suspicion is that some of those contingency plans involve a spousing belief in extraterrestrial
intervention of a technological nature.
All right, so I'm going to try to encapsulate this. I'm going to try to encompass what you're suggesting here and also introduce some of my own perspective.
But before I do that, just so I don't lose a thread. It's important from before.
We got here from a position in our discussion where you event skepticism about what you called conspiratorial theories surrounding UFOs and also
you were having difficulty, I think, forging a perspective from which you could make sense of the semblance of you having been selected by this phenomenon.
Did I understand that correctly?
Yeah, exactly.
Great. Great. So, I'm just trying to keep the threads in order here and we'll get back to the disclosure problem. We're going to bookmark that per se.
So, did it ever occur to you that you're extremely unusual, you're probably not the only child like you, but you're extremely unusual relationship with cognition, energy, and time might result in self-selection for such phenomenon?
Yeah, that became clear much later.
Okay. Okay, well, say something about that then.
Well, following those two experiences with the triangular objects.
Oh, by the way, were they this, do they appear to be the same object or the same kind of object?
They were different, but they were the same kind of object.
Okay.
Triangular. They both had roughly three white lights.
In the second case, the lights were far larger and they appear to be like portholes.
Right. Right.
As opposed to pinpoints of light.
Oh, okay. There's something I just want to highlight here. It's as if your experience is evolving, isn't it?
Or one could imagine that.
Like, I became conscious later that the experiences contain a certain kind of code or language or, yeah, there's something hidden logic.
Okay, great. Yeah, brilliant.
I'm with you.
Yeah. And this is something that I actively investigate. So,
I continue to experience different revelations about what happened to me in the past and, you know, the nature of existence and that kind of stuff.
But what followed those two experiences was even more intriguing in a certain sense because I became conscious of this relationship between my observation of celestial bodies and whatever this intelligence was.
Or is.
So, about six months after those two experiences, I was walking down the street near dusk.
And I became aware of this scintillating object in the sky.
And I just decided to stop in the road and observe its twinkling, its kind of scintillation. It was rapidly moving between different shades of blue, red, and white.
It appeared to be flashing.
And that can happen sometimes depending on the conditions of the atmosphere.
But for whatever reason, I found it interesting. So I stood there on the road watching it for maybe 20 minutes.
And at a certain point, I, you know, decided to go home. So I turned around. And as soon as I turned around, I saw this
what appeared to be an orange orb over the road. And it was in midair as I turned around it was flying to the left. And it followed this kind of sigmoid shape in the sky like an S shaped curve behind a tree.
So I was able to see the inside of this orb briefly.
It appeared to be like, almost like molten metal or gold swirling inside this ambient orange halo.
And I could, I could see, I could see the movement of this internal structure. It looked like fluid or something moving in a kind of vortex as this orb kind of as as the halo moved across the sky.
And like I said, it disappeared behind this willow tree.
So, you know, I walked over to the willow tree and I didn't see anything.
So I went home.
But I, but later it became, you know, clear to me that there was some relationship between that scintillating object in the sky, which was probably a planet or maybe a star, and this orb that I experienced and
I was curious about that was this kind of coordination in space between the motion of my body just happening to glimpse it behind me.
As I withdrew from observing this scintillating object.
So there was something within the flow of time there that I gradually became more conscious of as I grew up, I guess, or just as I molded over, you know, for years.
So I wanted to mention that too. So as I, you know, continue to develop these connections became more bizarre or more problematical.
Yeah.
Okay, so there's a hovering implication in the background here that I want to introduce just so that I don't lose it.
Some threads in my own consciousness are very difficult to sustain over time.
It's as if there are certain ideas that are much more difficult to keep in consciousness long enough to follow the threads make any sense to you.
Yeah, okay. So obviously dreaming is a certain kind of problematical situation for memory.
But there are certain modes of insight, which integrate over the field of the branches of human knowledge that are extremely problematical to hold in consciousness for more than a few moments in this case I'm able to do so for some reason I don't quite understand.
I mean, it could be the synergy of our intelligences that makes it easier. I'd suggest that it is consider a situation. You know what, what world lines are in relativity.
I thought you might consider a situation in which something violates them.
So, as I understand it and I may have this wrong, I'm not a physicist.
Each observer has a certain intrinsically unique status in terms of its world line in that no other observer quote unquote no other point of presence in in experience subjectivity whatever you want to call it can occupy the same thing right the same world line.
Is that similar to your understanding.
I think so. Great. So if two people are standing right together and someone flashes a light at them. It doesn't cause their world lines to collapse. They may see the they might see the light. They will see it from different angles it will reach them at slightly different times.
Yeah.
Right.
Okay, great. So imagine something that violates that right. It starts to it by its appearance, it collapses world lines.
So it unifies. Remember how you were talking about historical rectification in your childhood.
You're talking about doing something to the world line of the situation. Are you not.
Yeah, okay. Yeah, you got me. And so now here's this object that actually might be doing something extremely related to your obsessive concern and childhood.
Right, exactly.
Okay, great. Yeah.
Okay, so if we don't have the right language, and I'm not a quantum physicist and I'm very leery of people who like to use their probably clumsy understandings of concepts from quantum physics to explain metaphysical phenomenon so forth.
I'm very leery of that I'm not saying there's nothing good in that in that garden, but it makes me itchy usually.
And then at the same time sometimes I myself will do it. So I'm going to make that mistake here after admitting it.
And try to imagine what would happen if something appeared that was mostly in superposition, but partly not.
That would mean that local to that object. It could mean anyway, that world lines merge, or they blur around this object and if that's happening that means that time.
Okay, time is going to become sort of a multi liquid. Identity is no longer going to be the same thing. You're not who you are anymore.
Birth and death before and after above and below the entire problem of angles on the sphere. All of those things are placed into a non ordinary situation. What do you think.
You can see what you mean. Okay. Yeah, certainly something at least vaguely similar has occurred to you. Yes.
Yeah, I mean, I sometimes toy with this idea that space itself is the composition or the simultaneous appearance of different temporal scales.
So I can perhaps see that as into what you what I think you mean.
Yes, because if there's something in, by the way, this brings us back to the importance of not merely a place but a moment.
These are bodies.
And as bodies.
We are something like points of presence now what produces the point is up for what creative.
I'm at a loss for word here.
And I don't think that we are as distinct as we imagine I think that I usually prefer to think I can think many different things I can think many things at once when I'm lucky.
I prefer to think that the point of presence that we are. It's not so much an individual, but an instancing of many relationships, does that make any sense.
Oh yeah.
Okay, great.
Now I don't want to get lost in Darren's thoughts or perspectives on reality that's that's not why we're here today so let's redirect the conversation back to our bookmark.
And what was that bookmark helping out.
Can you recall.
You mentioned disclosure.
Yes, that's it. Thank you.
I got lost in the thread mess there for a minute.
And that was almost hypnotic so.
All right, so I want to say a few things about this disclosure thing. So, first of all, I want to recapitulate something like what you said.
It's that the government could essentially run a psi off if I was understanding you.
In which the existence of free energy would be falsely associated with relationships with either non existence, non existence or non actually relating with us.
Aliens, were you.
Supposing something like that.
Yeah free energy could be justified under the guise of its having descended from some alien intelligence. Right.
And so you know some what maybe 20 years ago now or close I wrote an essay called free energy would mean the end of life on Earth.
I presume that you don't believe our species could survive the introduction of free energy do you.
No, neither do I. How long do you think if somebody produced a free energy device introduced it how long do you think we'd have just take a wild guess.
Matter of weeks.
Yeah, the humans certainly in their present state can't be trusted with anything that could be I mean that's the ultimate weapon.
In fact, it's a weapon that make that you can just keep making weapons with it. I recall a not too old episode of Star Trek. I don't remember which
which series it was. It's one of the newer ones where
the Federation detects a warp signature at a previously off limits in terms of the prime directive planet. Right.
Because the thing that determines when when you can go contact them directly is when they when they're capable when they become capable of work drives right.
So the Federation detects warp signature they send the ship though ship disappears so they send another ship.
And the fact is that this planet has discovered the technology that warp drives are based on, but it's their intention and what they're doing is producing weapons with it.
They're using warp weapons, which not just kind of, you know, is a world ending technology that can actually damage time space.
And this goes back to the problem with the humans, not being trustworthy with the technique of the divine beings or the gods or the sky beings or however we want to think about that.
Briefly outline something that I'm a little bit concerned about and feel free to ask me questions or I will ask you further questions give me just a moment here.
So, we've heard from people like David grush and others, many others to such a degree that it seems unlikely that the whole thing is a fabrication that the United States government is now and has long been in possession of crashed alien objects,
alien technologies, some things which have been either partially or, you know, somewhat successfully reverse engineered.
They are in possession of intelligence about non humans of some kind right. We don't know whether they're physical beings, whether they are.
There's lots of this is probably actually it's not that they are one thing. There's a spectrum.
And we just say the word the phrase the phenomenon, right, we're referring to a broad spectrum of phenomena.
We're referring to broad spectrum of possible explanations.
There could have been beings from other planets that actually visited our planet in a spacecraft. There could also be things that resemble that or mimic it that are not beings in a spacecraft and so forth.
Does all that make sense so far.
Yes, it does.
Okay, so if some faction of the government is in possession of technologies from other intelligences or transcendent things.
It would be the holy grail of asymmetric military advantage.
It would also be the holy grail of asymmetric commercial advantage. And since our collectives at the collective scale we are captured with games by game theoretical, deadly lethal game theoretical.
What would I call it a mill a mill you
nothing would survive.
If
if the humans weaponized that and and also if there's some branch of the government in possession of such things. We've heard stories of vast underground cities bases all kinds of things that have been constructed using non human technologies I'm not sure if this is, you know, reliable or
but if there were a branch of the government in possession of such things even just of intelligence about non humans.
It's the most top secret thing of all top secret things it makes things like bio weapons nuclear weapons look like fucking romper room.
So if there's a branch in possession of that stuff, effectively what we have is a speciation event.
They're not humans anymore, whatever they are. They're not gods, and they might be homo sapiens, you know in their bodies, but they're not us, they're not regular humans they don't have to live by the rules or any of the stuff that we think is running our
civilizations, your thoughts.
Um, so when you spoke about, for example the introduction, tell me some of your concerns surrounding disclosure just, you know, improvise.
I mean, my familiarity with the whole history of the UFO phenomenon leads me to suspect a certain dimension of highly organized nefarious military involvement.
Me too.
This is the beginning.
Mm hmm.
So I learned.
Ville is quite on this page as well.
Right. Yeah, so making sense of that is important to any coherent theory of what we currently face.
You know, so the Morrie Island incident, for example, say more, explain what that means what that is.
Prior to the Kenneth Arnold sighting.
On June 24, 1947.
There was an incident near Tacoma Washington on Morrie Island, involving two people who claimed that a group of flying saucers ejected some kind of liquid metal that fell to earth was captured and transported by army pilots.
What was it called before?
Mm hmm.
Okay.
Not prior to Arnold, I haven't.
No, yeah, it took place three days before the Kenneth Arnold sighting. Oh wow, didn't know about this. This is news to me.
Yeah. As a matter of fact, Kenneth Arnold, as I recall was paid by a man named Ray Palmer to investigate the Morrie Island incident.
Ray's name is familiar to me at least I'm with you.
So Ray Palmer was, as I recall the editor of Amazing Stories, which was a science fiction magazine.
That was super important in my childhood. Yeah.
He essentially paid Kenneth Arnold to investigate the Morrie Island incident, which involved a man named Harold doll and Fred Christman.
Interestingly, Harold doll.
Fred Christman was later involved in the John F Kennedy assassination, which is rather bizarre. That was investigated by Ken Thompson in one of his books.
He was, yes, a very strange fellow. He was sort of suspended between the early history of ufology and this other strange conspiracy.
Yeah, but just the precedents of the Morrie Island incident and the involvement of army pilots, and their subsequent crash, their, their plane which was supposedly carrying this retrieved crash debris itself crashed over some forest and all the evidence was lost,
presumably. So, if from the very beginning, you know, just something about it seems highly strange, obviously.
So, it's worth looking into the Morrie Island case because, you know, predated the Kenneth Arnold sighting and, and the military was already involved. So,
and I think you and I both agree. A, let's just see if we agree.
A, the military is exactly the wrong branch of humanity to be quote in charge of and or
collecting such intelligence to agree there.
Of course, yeah.
We, we don't actually have a branch we haven't forged a branch of our species that would be a good selection for this necessity.
We agree there.
I agree. Yes.
And see, maybe we should probably get on with that right quick.
We agree there. Yeah.
Because the one, okay, if we, as human beings believe that we are intelligent, or we believe that there's such a thing as intelligence, then probably the two most important things we could possibly do is purse is a pursue.
I'm sorry to be using alphabets here is pursue the, the establishment of the possibility of an intelligent human collective number one.
If I don't use letters, I have to use numbers. I'm sorry.
And then number two, compose a branch of human knowledge research behavior and relationships that reconnect us to the intelligences that are clearly present here on earth.
There are many other biologies, and they're very likely to be present beyond the earth, whether that presence is as physical organisms on other worlds, or as some feature of the nature of, I don't know what reality time space, whatever
time space is a hypostasis of etc. Your thoughts.
The alien intelligence needs to be localized to this planet. I think the alien intelligence is coming from our surroundings from our environment.
Same one.
I mean, you probably know about the works of Michael Persinger, who discovered the relationship between tectonic strain and anomalous luminous phenomena, ALPs.
And that notion, as simple as it might seem, can carry you into like an alternative kind of mental space where suddenly the nature of human cognition in relation to its environment can be physically grounded.
So like, I tend to suspect that direct realism is an appropriate characterization of human perception, and grounding direct realism in something like the interaction between geophysical forces, meteorological forces, and
electrochemical phenomena in the human body.
It seems to be the most promising path when compared to like contemporary cognitive neuroscience, which is downstream from a lot of bad philosophy.
Yeah, this is something that we're going to get into at length, perhaps a little bit in this conversation, but also in future conversations.
Just those, let's see, answering a lot of that. Yeah, the six or seven words you said there, describe much of Tyler's Cognizium downstream of a lot of bad philosophy.
I describe a bunch of your Cognizium isn't that you fit in there, but rather that you have determined.
You have sort of established a little island outside of bad philosophy from which you conduct perspectival operations against it.
Right. Yes.
It's essentially a secret agent for the universe.
That's how it feels.
Me too. I think that's part of why we recognize one another.
Exactly.
And I think that's that's part of what it means to be a child. The problem is that most of the children get captured and compromised.
They know for mission impossible.
If you were caught or killed the secretary will disavow any knowledge of your actions.
I mean that is a joke.
So, right.
Do you think what is your perspective.
Do you think there are aliens in the sense of biological entities.
I doubt it.
Yeah, I doubt that aliens from some other star system.
Up here here.
I think you think it's possible. Oh, sorry, go ahead.
The alien intelligence is all around us. The alien, the alien intelligence is within us even.
Yeah, we agree about that.
I would, I would, you know, say that we're actually composed of.
I tend to use the, I like the neologism transcendentians.
I think that our intelligence is a modest type of stasis, a lesser, you know, instance of something staggeringly transcendental that is native to whatever time space is a lesser stasis of.
Let me pose a, let me pose a toy to you.
Imagine that you take, you find one day in your kitchen you live by yourself you find one day in your kitchen a glass of water is on the table.
You know that you did not put the glass there someone put it there you decide not to interfere with it.
Days later, perhaps 45 or whatever the, the water has evaporated in the bottom of the glass there are white crystals do you know where I'm going here.
If you don't, that's okay. So the white crystals turn out to be salty taste them salty runs chemical tests there. They're actually sodium chloride.
So you realize that the water was salty right and so when the water evaporated the Chris, the content in the water crystallized in the bottom of the glass make sense.
Yes, great. So earth probably isn't entirely dissimilar to such glass of water. If you get organisms here and minds and like octopuses and praying mantises.
And by the way, like, there's nothing as shocking as organisms organisms are fundamentally impossible. If you pointed your finger at the sky you went like, I don't know a million light years in that line.
You, the chances of encounter, I think your chances of encountering an octopus or zero. There's, I mean, none of them. Right.
So you're looking at phenomenon that are so staggeringly impossible that humans should have just started screaming going like whenever they tried to name a thing should have just been what the fuck is that can't that can't exist.
You know, because tigers, I can't exist praying mantises can't exist, octopuses trees, the simplest organ that just these are impossible beings.
I'm trying to sing the praises of the world that we live on a world that I adore and believe to be a being, or even something we don't have a category for that generates the possibility of beings as a side effect of whatever that, you know, more than merely a being is doing.
I'm trying to get a little bit into, you know, my own sort of philosophy or cosmology or concern here but what I'm trying to get at is this. If you get hands, or eyes, or minds on Earth, then the water of time space so to speak right the milieu context must be productive of those things.
What you don't get in the glass of water on your kitchen table is a wristwatch.
Right, because the water isn't wristwatchy.
You're still getting at right.
Yeah, I'm trying to say that like time space must be Izzy.
It must be wingsy. Yes, precisely.
It must be handsy and mindsy and adoration. Yes, and all these things.
Yes.
Yes, absolutely.
It's vaguely weird that we are in the grip of a variety of ontological deceptions that pretend the time space is just machine.
It's machine.
What.
What.
It's it's hammering.
No, you know, if I was almond Hillman, I'd like go off camera right now and make some spanking noises.
Right.
No.
Well, I mean, this is why the Gertian theory of light matters so much to me because I think Gerta enables us to understand something about space, such that organisms inherit features from space itself.
Yes.
Which gives them these properties, as you mentioned.
That's why I think it's weird, though, that you think there aren't.
Well, I'm not objecting, and I want to I want to know more.
But if time space is handsy and Izzy and mindsy and octopus sea and, you know, like praying man to see and stuff, then it must be aliensy, because our world seems to me to be filled with billions of aliens.
This is a world in space.
These are space creatures all around us.
The insects, the spider, the wasp, you know, the, the new to bronc.
The mantis shrimp, octopus, the whale dolphin. These are aliens. They're right here. We don't have to go anywhere to meet other minds.
Our minds are made of alien minds, it seems to me, but, but say whatever's in your heart or mind at the moment, I'll stop lathering.
Well, in my view, cognition forms a continuum with the morphology of the organism.
So what we call cognition is fundamentally similar to or even the same as identical with what we call the form of the living body.
Brilliant. I see.
And you can see this, for example, in the case of plants, which are stationary beings.
The plant is really a kind of wave.
So what in the plant waves.
And this is what Gerta called the herb flanza. This is the platonic idea of the plant or the soul of the plant, what Aristotle.
Yeah, or wait, even the.
Okay, let's say a little more about that. I don't want to just run over it. It's the, the originary modus.
I don't know, help me out.
Yeah, the originary image that belongs to the deep past.
So the resurrection of this idea in the present is precisely what I think Plato meant by animusis, which I think Gerta also saw in the living body of plants.
Because these, these waves characterize organisms themselves in the same way that our own brains supply frequencies at which we perceive solid objects.
The forms of organisms themselves events this underlying vibrating image.
So the reconstruction of that image I think is fundamentally holographic, because space itself is holographic.
I mean, it works, it works like light.
In other words, the body of the tree is fundamentally analogous to the beam of light that we can pass through the prism.
Because it undergoes the same number of expansions and contractions.
Say more about that last feature, the same number of expansions and contractions as you move from the root to the seed of the flowering plant you undergo three expansions and three contractions.
So the seed is a kind of contraction.
The seed leaves or cotylatons are also a kind of contraction.
The roots are a kind of expansion. So the seed mediates above and below these two kinds of movement, which recur in the human organism.
So our own bodies undergo similar expansions and contractions we call contractions sensation, whereas we call expansions action.
So this is why the philosophy of Henry Berkson I think is rather profound because he acknowledged the existence of perception as virtual action.
So, were you expressing these principles in your childhood?
Because I can't help but see the reflection.
I can't say so. I mean, I discovered this independently many years later through my own readings.
Can you see that your, okay, your perception of the relationships in form space and time produced.
Well, yeah, yeah.
Okay, great. So I'm just going to finish it for the listeners produced in you.
It's not really a sensation but an excitation, which then led to what I'm going to call a transcendental action that you spoke of as a sudden movement.
Right.
Okay, good. That's the laughter I've been wanting to hear in this conversation. Okay, good. Keep going.
Okay, so, so the organs of the plant form a coherent whole. The body of the plant is a whole, which exercises causal power.
Now, the extent to which holes exercise causal powers, I think is almost entirely overlooked by modern physics, because of our tendency to reductionism, our tendency to emphasize the role that parts play over holes.
The holes are causal agents, much as they were for Aristotle.
Yeah, let's call them unities.
Unities. Yeah, sure.
I prefer. Yeah.
Now, the weird thing about the unities, and particularly the bio relational unities here on earth is that they form what I refer to as hyper structures, which are catastrophically multi dimensional relational webs.
So what you'll never see, for example, is a world with nothing but an oak tree, or nothing but an ant.
Right. You see what I'm getting at like the forms that we see here are not possible in the isolation that we imagine if we think about individuals.
And so somehow they are a field phenomena.
And this is, you know, people are like, we should save the ecologies because they're really important to the future of humans. No, that's not why they're important.
That isn't untrue. I don't think you can harm the ecologies of earth without harming the interiority of humans in real time, you kill one whale, that whale dies in every being on this planet.
It's a field in my view. It's a field. Does that make sense. Yeah, yeah. And the relations between bodies in external space is mirrored in the coherence of the living body itself.
So yes, see this kind of symmetry between the macrocosm and the microcosm at work.
Yes, and I also, I mean, I suspect very strongly, rather provocative ideas such as
there is a member of a family of similar worlds that can probably communicate among each other instantaneously so that what we mess up here has to be mitigated or suffered in other places.
Like damage here causes damage elsewhere.
Healing here quote unquote causes healing elsewhere.
Humans have a very crude idea of what a planet is and they think it's separate.
I very much doubt this.
I have strong reason to believe that this is not the case, and it's not a theoretical belief. It's, it's reason from direct experience.
But no what I can't tell you exactly what the planet is.
But if I could even point you in that direction it would obliterate the entire tree of categories with which you've been familiarized by humans.
It would just lay waste to that they would burn it down, and it would burn it down with beauty, like, like ecstasy.
What's going on here is so preciously profound and beautiful that we don't even have concepts that resemble it in our lexicon in our in the category trees from which our lexicon's arise.
I love this world. I love the living beings of this world. I adore them. I know them as my own nature, origin, meaning, body, purpose, all these things.
So I'm just want to sing these praises while we have a moment and let us return then to get the and holes and the compression expansion.
The, the organs of any organism internally cohere, according to a certain kind of logic, which I think Gerta was responsible for discovering in a major way.
As opposed to regarding the organs of an organism as essentially disparate taxonomical names or parts, we should recognize how the appearance of any one organ presupposes the appearance of every other.
Yes. Yeah. Yes, yes, which you can understand according to this kind of wave form that never incarnates as an object, but oh, condition. Yes. Yeah.
In a sense, is this in any way related to what corn fed calls affordances.
And in my view, perhaps I introduced the idea of affordances from James Gibson, who was a direct realist, which is why I find his theories useful, but yeah, I would say so.
Okay, I need to hear you say something about direct realism because I'm not clear on what that phrase means. Help me understand it and feel free to be, you know, like, explain it to the five year old that I sometimes become.
Well, direct realism is the notion that perception directly accesses phenomena in the external world.
Modern science is what you might call an indirect realist paradigm because modern science essentially contends that we perceive not the external world as it really exists, but by virtue of some process in the body.
We decipher or encode information in the external world in ways that fundamentally corrupt the original image. So this all comes from Galileo and from British empiricism.
Because Galileo isn't there.
Okay, let me just interrupt please hold your thought and I also want you to bookmark Bergson because you mentioned him and we branched.
So a precedent for this in the Greek thought, because they thought something like it is impossible for us to understand.
Let's see if I can recapitulate this.
Surely it is not possible for us to perceive directly what is true, or good or real, because we are human, and our senses and the form of our humanity deceive us.
Therefore, the only chance of us perceiving the true the real or the good is if we have a way to escape that cage.
They thought of this, I think there was a phrase called the soma pneumatica, which was the spectral body. This isn't exactly the same as an out of body experience though it might be related.
I want, okay, does any of this making any sense that we're stuck in our senses and the forms are senses deceive us about the nature of things.
Well, yeah, it makes sense. Yeah.
I'm reminded of that by what you're saying go ahead.
Oh, well I however would reject the idea that that somehow diminishes the reality of my perception right now.
I want to invest my perception right now with as much reality as how the world might look beyond my physical mantle.
And this has to do with the holographic nature of space, as I mentioned, so once you once you embrace the notion that space is holographic, as opposed to some kind of neutral medium or monolithic container in which things are arbitrarily moving.
The reality of your perception, or the direct accessibility of phenomena through your perception becomes I think much more coherent.
And the philosophy of Henry Berks and I think is one of the foundations of a direct realist theory of perception, as it was for James Gibson because he was, he was fundamentally a Berksonian thinker.
And, yeah.
I have a couple of questions briefly. The first is, when we think of the term holographic, we tend to think of things like photographs and or movies. Is it not so a holograms are distinct from photographs, because in a hologram, every region contains the potential to reconstruct the whole image.
I'm going to go somewhere with this though. So, in, I'm going to replace the word in my original question. I'm going to replace the word photograph with image.
And now are we closer.
Let me actually pose my question. Rather than the concept of holographic. What about the idea of hollow temporal hollow temporal.
Yes, right that the past present and future are somehow all being presented simultaneously.
They are accessible so they are simultaneously accessible in what seems to be.
Well, I don't know what linear time.
Yeah, in my view the past perpetually enters the present through this kind of memorial process because memory is an elementary property of the external holographic field.
And what about the future.
The future I think is also entering the present. So, temporality is what Heidegger called an ecstatic unity.
We agree in, in principle about this matter that I also however believe that the past is transformed by how we see and behave and relate in the present.
I think it would need to be if the future exercises causal influence. Yeah.
Because we know for example that I can change the meaning.
One of the things that gives me hope.
You know, I'm often a bit of a deem singer about the humans but one of the things that gives me hope is that it's clear to me that it is possible for us to do something so beautiful or so intelligent or so insightful in this moment that we change the meaning of history.
Precisely. Yeah, I think transforming the meaning of history is inevitable.
It is but we have.
Well, do you, do you think there's free will.
Yes.
And is there also restriction of free will.
Well, in my view, freedom is bound up with the interval that separates the stimulation of the body from its possible response.
Oh my God.
Because the future is bound up more with the form of the body itself. So what we perceive as affordances in our environment, which consulate the possibility of our own future are reflections of our own morphology.
Yeah.
Have you ever.
Humans have this idea that's recurs in science fiction, which I think is kind of silly.
At present, I think it's silly though I understand why they forged it once they made machines they thought oh maybe someday we will make a vehicle that can travel in time and we'll call it a time machine, you follow.
You are weirder than a time machine because you have moved your consciousness beyond the, the fucking event horizon of rationality of physicality and of temporality.
And so often when you speak, I feel like I'm getting signals from satellite mind.
Beyond that.
Yeah.
I'm just going to stop there.
I'm not saying we have to end the conversation. I'm going to stop making my statement there. I don't know what say beyond that. Sometimes when you speak of your perspectives and the, the perspectives you have integrated into your way of understanding and learning and seeking.
It's pretty unusual it, it's almost like the first.
The first signals that I received during mine on ordinary experience with the intelligences that I refer to as toy maker.
It's like I'm talking with an on human intelligence.
Exactly. Yeah, we, I think we share that in common.
I find that very refreshing, a little bit frightening and very exciting.
Yeah, I'm glad to hear that. I mean, I'm very excited to.
Okay, so do we want to stay on the branch of go to Bergson and so on, or.
Do you have questions?
I mean, the circumstances of our meeting have been pretty compelling.
I'm interested in your, you know, your background, how you managed to get involved with the Institute.
That would be worth covering at some point and, you know, we don't have to do that here now but knowing that would be personally fulfilling.
I'm happy to address that I want to ask you some other questions, because I have a vast library of questions ask you so.
What do you think, what is dreaming, what a I'm asking what is dreaming what is dreaming for what is dreaming doing address them in any order you wish or modify the questions if you prefer.
This is clearly related to memory.
The images that appear in dreams appear to be derived from memories in waking consciousness.
The logic of dreams, I think is somewhat different from the imagery presented.
So in my view the logic of dreams and the imagery of dreams should be separated.
Sometimes that, as I mentioned before, the way in which phosphines manifest as I fall asleep, tie into the thoughts in my mind.
So I end up seeing sometimes I end up seeing on my eyelids what I was immediately thinking in terms of images or, you know,
dramatic scenes, which I think are probably the basis of dreaming.
So light and cognition appear to be bound together in ways that I think relate even to the form of, as I mentioned already, plants and the visible spectrum.
So dreaming has something to do with the nature of light or electricity engendered endogenously through bio photons.
So bio photons really exist.
We know that now.
And, you know, Plato obviously subscribed to this extra missionist theory of vision so Plato believed that light actually emanates from the eyes, which, as we now know is probably true.
And probably ties into some kind of dream relevant process.
Okay, let me re-encapsulate that for the listeners.
So you're saying something like vision isn't a passive process where the eyes receive photons.
Vision involves the projection of something.
It may include bio photons, it may primarily be bio photons, but there may be other things that are projected as well.
Thus, when we, as many ancients believed, when we look in English, we say we look at something, we look upon a subject, we are actually touching it in some way.
Sheldrake, Rupert Sheldrake, has supposed that people can detect when they are being observed by other people or beings and sometimes by cameras.
And so it's not clear, okay, I'm going to eliminate the cameras from the equation just to keep things simple for the moment.
It seems, you know, that rays, something like rays or waves or something like this emanate from our eyes.
And part of what you were saying about dreaming is that when you close your eyes, these things we call phosphenes, which for people who don't know what those are.
And if you very gently and please do gently close your eyes and then press gently on your eyelids, hold that there for a little while you will begin to see some colors or some patterns and so forth.
So these are what are called phosphenes and Tyler is suggesting that these phosphenic images as we are falling asleep, mix with thoughts to produce the seeds of what become the dramatic presentations in dreaming something like this.
And I got you, if I got you mostly correct there to Tyler or
Yeah, I think so.
So, yeah, in my view, direct realism is probably true, because light is already structured by the time it enters your eyes.
So the appearance of phosphenes on your eyelids that conform to certain kinds of mental images is just the inversion of that process.
So processing never takes place in the brain in the way that we tend to think in modern cognitive neuroscience.
Using the computer metaphor of mind, rather, the light is already structured and informative by the time it enters your eyes.
This self exhibits a certain kind of structure, unlike rays or waves, which are ultimately abstractions.
This is what I think Gerta also understood.
Any beam of light contains a coherent image.
As opposed to regarding the beam of light as some kind of external entity propagating through space, we should acknowledge that what looks like a beam of light on a two dimensional surface contains a three dimensional image, which is structured by matter.
Right, because light only becomes visible in the presence of matter, which is how light or the structure of light is already informative by the time it reaches your eyes, your brain doesn't do anything to it.
Your brain isn't processing you.
Again, the idea that the brain somehow engages in this process of decoding is asinine, your brain isn't doing anything of the nature, anything of the sort.
Your brain is just a, just a, your brain is just a resistor.
So your brain inhibits the propagation of a signal, which is what gives rise to the present moment.
Okay, I want to ask you carefully to distinguish between.
You are using the word is in an explicit sense.
To be clear, are you saying that you're asking us to believe that what you are saying is the fact of what's going on, or are you asking us to entertain this perspective because because it is useful.
And, you know, either answer is fine.
Don't be worried.
I'm okay either way.
When you say the brain is a resistor, are you asking us to believe that that is the fact.
I'm playing with the computer metaphor of mind.
So as opposed to regarding the brain as a, as a processor, you should regard the brain as an analog component because the brain is doing something analog, not digital.
Which is why these attempts in modern artificial intelligence to create consciousness through software are ultimately doomed.
And in proper metaphor, I think you need a concrete wave to generate consciousness.
You can't just do it in software.
What do you think.
Okay, so one of my friends and I think he's not the only one who thinks this.
Supposes I'll use this word, but I still want you to answer my, my first question before I go on.
Are you asking us to view these matters as if what you are saying is useful as a perspective to see from, or are you trying, are you asking us to hear you say this is my perspective this is the one I believe to be true, or something else.
Yeah, I mean this is my perspective.
Okay, great.
So one of my friends was saying about the artificial intelligence conundrum that it might be that if you forge a substrate complex enough.
The sort of what we might think of as the intelligence and or what I usually use the word transcendence to refer to of that is natural to the medium, right to whatever the medium is whether it's time space or something beyond it.
Could then just sort of take up residence in it. What do you think of that idea.
Yeah, the possibility of incarnation.
It's sort of like, it's, it's a bit like if you make it they will come. Right. But in this case, you make something you make a substrate complex enough to support intelligence.
Then it then some kinds of intelligence will naturally find their way into it. And as you say, incarnate, even though I think the car Nate, I think we'd have to call it and machinate.
Yeah, because it's not, there's no car name there.
I suspect that you need more than a substrate.
Okay, kind of dynamic motion.
And can you hear me?
Yes, I can hear you okay there's a little tiny bit of an echo but I hear you.
Okay, good.
I think you need the capacity for motion for consciousness to arise.
But of course, but of course inside the machine there is the capacity for electromagnetic motion among the transistors and resistors and memory elements and so forth.
No, but its motion is abstract, as opposed to concrete so its motion takes the form of the interaction of extrinsically interlocking parts that lack a coherent idea.
Oh, they have not the thing that the tree or the bird has.
They have not that essence that we spoke of earlier.
And by the way, you speak of Plato fairly regularly, but I want to be clear about something simple. He was not the originator of the idea of anemesis.
He may be what brought that idea to us in text or something.
It was not. He got that from someone is what I'm trying to say. Yeah.
And also, I recently listened to a brilliant podcast, which I've probably linked on my on my channel somewhere.
And which a scholar of Plato was basically saying that he was lying a lot on purpose that he didn't believe in the forms.
And he was using this as a as an expedient to get us to think in a certain way, which is very common in articulate in the articulate thought of the Greeks and the philosophers, quite common, I think.
Does this ever occur to you or do you take Plato literally.
Oh, it occurs to me.
Okay.
I mean, Plato was a pen name.
Right. And, yeah, he, he was clearly this person who I was listening to, I'll see if I can find him.
He was saying, I can find him fairly quickly.
He was saying that Plato was very fond of this idea which goes. It's in line with Owen barfields idea of what barfield calls the aria, which is the predecessor to hypotheses and the aria concerned itself primarily with
seeing, like, prospectivity, not truth, not factuality, not validation, none of that better ways of seeing. And there are, we've discussed this previously in our conversations because I brought it up before right like science fiction, which gives you a broad array of
astonishing lenses of perspective. It's not about what exists. It's not about facts. It doesn't care about the facts. It cares about better ways of seeing and how to see other forms of literature are similar, some forms of playing are similar
and some forms of music are similar poetics, very similar.
And yet it frees us from certain kinds of traps or cages or perhaps gravity wells in consciousness.
Actually what it frees us from is the expected structure of language. I've occasionally read someone writing something where I was almost offended. I felt nearly violated. I felt like
surely it is impossible for humans to say or think that I never, I never imagined that it was even possible to sit to to think or to say or to write what you have fought or written or said.
So this idea of the aurea, which barfield says dies right around the time of Galileo's theories that upset the church, not because he's saying the earth or it's the sun, but because he's saying that from now on, and maybe it doesn't start with Galileo it
may start much earlier. I'm not sure. But he uses this example from now on theories that save the appearances or match realities are a new form of truth that cannot be contested.
There's no way to contest them.
The video I was referencing is not to conforms interview with Jason Reza, George Johnny, who I think is also interviewed recently on Danny Jones's channel, not a huge fan of Danny Jones, by the way, but but he does interview some amazing people.
It's the, the, the podcast is called Plato's terrifying secret doctrines. And I found it really fascinating.
Mostly what he's saying is that Plato was making things up all over the place on purpose, and that he was profoundly aware of the power of irony of certain forms of sarcasm.
It's clear that Socrates often doesn't mean what he is saying.
And in fact mimics certain features of those perspectives that he opposes in order to call them into question or awareness. Is this making any sense.
Yeah, I think so.
It's a branch so severely there.
I want to ask you some more questions about dreaming.
Are there dreams from your childhood that stand out in your memory.
I can't think of one.
Adolescence.
No adulthood.
I mean nothing stands out as being particularly profound or.
Shocking.
Although some of my work with dreams ended up being rather transformative. Yeah.
And what do you mean by work with dreams. Say more about that.
Learning how to recall dreams.
Mm hmm.
Yeah.
And did you ever record them.
Yes.
Was that also helpful.
Yeah, recording my dreams allows me to enter the kind of mentality wherein memory is enhanced, which can be beneficial.
Yeah, I think there's a profound, a profoundly rich and crucial relationship between dreaming and memory but in a future conversation, I want to talk with you very
in a detailed way about memory and what we actually think that is or, you know, is about and so forth.
But I want to ask you a couple of simple questions about dreaming.
Do you, what do you think a loom. Okay, first of all, are your dreams.
Do you experience something resembling vision in dreaming that so that you see scenes or you seem to see scenes.
Yeah.
Do you think that the illumination is the same thing as light when you're awake or do you think it is a different kind of illumination or what do you
think.
What do I think in my dreams.
What do you think in your dreams.
I mean, I don't even know if we think in dreams. I mean, whatever we do. This is what I'm kind of asking actually is something really weird, because I seem to have something resembling thoughts in dreaming occasionally, but they do
not seem to be like thoughts that I have when I'm awake. Not that I can understand what thoughts are while I'm awake either. Those are really weird too.
What I'm going to ask you is, what do you think it is that it lumens the space, the visual space in your dreaming. Is it light, or is it something else.
It's probably not light.
I agree.
Yeah, but it's related to light.
Yes, I agree.
So the imagery that emerges in dreams, I think is probably due to the decoupling of action from perception. So in waking consciousness, the relationship between sensation and perception or action is quite unified,
forming a coherent circuit.
When, when that circuit, essentially, I think that dreaming cleaves that circuit to some extent. So what arises are memory images that belong to the external holographic field, which are clothed in personal
recollections derived from something in the body.
So the body, I think the body actually gives the logic of the dream, its garments, its clothing, the appearance of the images.
Yeah.
So death is probably a similar kind of experience.
Could dreaming be practice for death?
Yes.
Yes. Yeah, by way of dreams, I think you can find ways out. You can actually.
So dreams are like a window or a portal through which you can enter alternative spaces.
Besides the dream plane or the memory plane.
Yeah.
Okay, there's more, more questions about this.
So you are aware that whatever time is in dreaming, it's not the same thing as out here.
Time.
Right.
So like, and so we've already, we brought light into question.
Something seems to illumine the context within which we experienced dreaming.
It probably isn't light, but it is also related to light.
There does seem to be something resembling temporality in dreams.
However, it is not structured the way it's structured on this side of that conundrum.
Right, right.
There's also something like space, right, like distance, but it's not the same thing either.
And so there's this fundamental triad. There's also something like identity, but it's not the same thing as identity over here by a long shot.
It's much weirder.
I don't just mean personal identity.
I mean the identity of circumstances, entities, situations, objects, so forth in the dreamscape.
They are not regular. They have, it seems to me they have dimensions that are missing from most of our waking experience, usually.
And they may have dimensions that are native specifically to the experience of dreaming. What are your thoughts?
I think you can see without light. You can perceive colors without light, which might be related to the dreamscape.
I mean, this is where I return to the Goethean theory of color and so on, but say more.
Well, through the dream environment, you can, you can exit your body in a certain sense, precisely because as I mentioned, light is already structured by the time it enters your eyes.
You can perceive external space without your eyes.
I've had such an experience a few times in a hypnagogic state.
I've been able to see the room.
Yes, with my eyes closed.
It's very strange. It seems exactly like regular seeing at first, at first appearance, but it isn't.
It has some other quality that I don't understand.
But there is something I want. Okay, there's something I don't want to lose track of before we go too farther down, too much farther down this little branch.
I suspect that in your childhood behavior or activity, you might have been trying to escape the singularity of your world line.
Say a little more about that.
As you were speaking about, you just, you were using the word escape in dreaming about, you were using it about dreaming, you can escape your body right.
And when you talked about the problem of the history of an object and how you would relate with the profane version of the object.
And what did you contrast with profanity? I don't think it was sacred. What did you contrast with it?
No, I called it sacred.
Oh, you did? Okay, yeah.
Yeah, so it's almost as if it's really weird what's in my mind right now.
It's almost as if you were physically doing what the dreaming mind does with strands of potential memory.
It takes the sheath of the profane off, and it preserves the essence or the, by taking the sheath off, the sheath off, it, the essence becomes preservable in futurial timelines or something like that.
It's very difficult to say. Does it make sense?
Yeah, that makes sense.
There's this whole thing about the wheat in the Bible, right, that God quote unquote will like dispose of the chafe. You follow me?
I'm sorry, no, please go on.
Yeah, there's this whole thing in the Bible that's very, look, I'm not trying to get us on biblical tangents here. I'm trying to say that there's this trope, this array of tropes that have to do with what is beautiful and is preserved,
what is the true and the good and the beautiful and the originary and the memorial that is preserved, and that which is disposed of.
And in these biblical passages which vary throughout the Bible, it's a trope that recurs.
It's often as if the metaphor of threshing wheat is sometimes used, right?
You would thresh the wheat to break the husks away, you preserve the kernels, those become bread, those become life.
And so, in listening to your description of your childhood activity and passion and obsession, I find something very compelling there.
I've seen echoes of throughout our conversation today.
And I'm not trying to collapse it into my explanation or even my perspective.
I'm just trying to show that there are resonant echoes in your developmental path that are very profound and I think very beautiful and intellectually astonishing and insightful.
Just as if you were dropping a stone into a pool, right, and those ripples, those concentric ripples are then, right, it's as if in your childhood, when you did that activity, you were dropping a trustworthy stone into a more trustworthy kind of water that would ripple out into the future of your developmental.
path. And also, I think you were trying to, to undamage something about the world line.
And to do that, you might have had to get outside of it. What are your thoughts?
Right, I can, I can see that.
Yeah.
When I was nine years old, I injured my eye.
In a tree, which was pretty traumatic for me.
My left eye.
And yeah, that was another formative aspect of my development, which I think catalyzed a lot of, you know, subsequent fixations or anxieties.
Yeah.
These formative experiences can be very personal and unique to each of us.
And yet we also, we each have these kinds of, not just milestones, but like, we have catastrophes.
We have little apocalypses and so little deaths that have a very profound effect on our psyche that tends to persist.
Unless what?
Unless we undergo either some transformative rebirth where they are sloughed off, or perhaps something resembling really beautifully skillful therapy or something like this.
Both of those things, do they make sense to you?
Yeah, I feel split down the middle.
I do too.
I relate with that.
Without going into the tale about precisely how that's true.
It's really weird to be a bilateral being, right, to have a front and a back.
You have two sides that are like the wings of a butterfly in a way.
It's so weird, the surfaces of the body.
Oh, that's the other thing.
Oh yeah, that I didn't want to lose track of.
You said something like, it was very important for you to feel your movement through space, your body's movement through space.
Did you say something like that in your childhood?
Yeah.
Yeah.
See, that's like the, I think that perception, which is not merely somatic, it's not merely visceral.
It's almost as if you're going to forge the possibility of a new observational dimension.
Does that make sense?
I think so, yeah.
So, as if you're going to forge a certain kind of a satellite that can observe with very specific concerns and from a really non ordinary perspective.
The actions in time space that your body executes.
Something like this.
There are, there are profound mysteries here that I look forward to the further pursuit of.
I'm thinking that perhaps now might be a reasonable time to wind down for this session. What are your thoughts?
Yeah, that sounds fine to me.
Is there anything that you'd like to share, ask or say before we wrap up for today?
I just appreciate your time and your insights. I want to thank you for this opportunity.
I can't express my joy enough. When our minds are together, UFOs are almost uninteresting.
Like what we can become when we chase the light together is so beautiful and compelling and outside all of my ordinary experience that I'm just profoundly grateful for this opportunity to see and learn and grow together.
I honor it.
I respect it and your path and your brilliant mind and also your, you know, the challenges and the struggles that you faced.
So glad you're in the world. I'm so excited for other people to encounter us together but also just your thought and your perspectives. Yeah, really, really happy about this.
Yeah, likewise. Thank you, Darren.
My pleasure and we will do this again very soon.
I wish you every beautiful thing in your life.
I look forward to our next conversation.
