Much of our human experience is deeply conditioned by our relationships with language, ideas, and concepts.
We are a peculiar animal in that we don't really live in a conscious relationship with nature.
We tend to live primarily in overlays that are culturally transmitted, transformed, and inherited.
The minds that we develop in our lifetimes depend fundamentally on the cultures and concerns to which we are exposed, especially in childhood.
So that were we not exposed to such cultures, we would not become human.
We're a peculiar animal. We're born unfinished, filled with potentials that await the opportunity for development, or perhaps misdirection, as I think is commonly the case in our modern experience.
In thinking about these matters, I play with a variety of different toys that are really just frameworks, models, metaphors that help me to see from perspectives that are otherwise difficult to acquire.
And some of these toys are very dangerous, and that might be because most of the toys we were given are incredibly crude, disabling, deceptive, and otherwise un-good.
So one toy in particular got me in trouble while I was making it, and this is the potential of a really good toy, is to lead us beyond theory and description and speculation, directly into some kind of learning experience.
In this case, for me, this toy led me to the most unexpected and shocking learning experience of my lifetime.
I'm not necessarily making any claims that it will have that effect for anyone else, yet it is a usually provocative toy, perhaps because of the nature of its similarity to our world and our minds and how living ecologies are.
The toy is not too difficult to communicate. Let's see. It has three primary components.
So the first component is to think of the collective relational and sensing and cognitive activity of any given species as an environment, so that sparrows have a collective environment of their, how should we put it, mental-like activity,
the activity of their awareness together as animals in the world, and so do cats, and so do dogs, and so do trees, and perhaps even specific species of trees, but especially humans do.
And I call the collective environment of human cognitive activity the Cognition, and I think of that as a unified dimension similar to the world, or how should we put it, maybe an overlay on our world, and an overlay on the ecologies as well, since it floats on them.
So if you can, think of all the human minds and all their contents as a unity, and think of it, you can think of it, I guess, as a network in a sense, but the precedence should be on the unity, and I call this the human Cognition.
Now this is of course deeply connected to all of the other Cognizia on our world, that of the plants and animals, ecologies and such, but for humans, our experience of our Cognizia is fundamentally human, we're not, most of us don't have conscious experience of exposure to other Cognizia, so we have some stories about this.
So we all participate, we acquire our minds actually, from exposure to particular branches, local branches, of the modern human Cognizia, and it's a dimension that's preserved and transmitted generation to generation.
Within the Cognizia, there are things that we might think of, a bit like animals, in that they compete, and how should we put it, they specialize for various niche terrains in human concern, and these are ideas.
They've been previously spoken of as memes, but I'd like to think of them in a slightly more sophisticated fashion, I'd like to think of them as processes that act a bit like organisms competing for dominance and terrain in living environments.
So thrips inhabit the human Cognizia, and when they compete for terrain, what they're competing for is human attention and replication in human minds, social systems and relationships.
In many cases, this involves profoundly inhibiting human intelligence, our natural relational integrity, and the breadth of our possible relationship with perspective.
So thrips can co-opt some of our assets in order to dominate our minds, our cultures, and to, how should we put it, manipulate human beings into positions that are much like reproductive organs.
Not in a way similar to how viruses invade a cell, transform its mechanisms to their own, to reproduce lots of viruses.
So in the Cognizia, there are thrips, and here's where I got in trouble when I began to think of the next piece of this idea, which was the nature of the structure of the Cognizia.
What is that network made of?
And I realized that it's a complex network, has lots of different domains of anatomy, and I thought of it as all of the transports between minds.
And this I called the mimula, and that word is reminiscent of mymesis to mimic, which is of course one of the primary properties of thrips is to mimic value, importance, urgency, nobility, virtues, necessity, things like this.
So I thought of the network that connects all of the human minds is the mimula, and of course this is also true of the other Cognizia, that of the bees for example.
Of course the mimula that the bees use is radically different from that that the humans use because we're living in a representational overlay, whereas the bees are living more or less directly in physical relation with nature.
So the human mimula is composed of all the different ways we exchange information, which is kind of an abstract idea, rather the ways and the reasons for which we communicate.
And that of course today includes many electronic aspects, but it would include everything from television, radio, writing, conversation, advertising, the internet, and all the different branches of culture that are involved in any kind of communication at all, including banking and the military and the police and all of this sort of thing.
So the human mimula, the modern human mimula is an incredibly complex and sophisticated web of which the internet is kind of an almost comically primitive at present representation.
Now these three concepts are not necessarily world-shattering by themselves. They don't do anything, right? They don't transform your mind or anything like that, if you just sort of hold them in your mind or think about them.
But if you pursue them and understand that you're participating in something directly, you're participating directly in something very much like this all the time, then they become very provocative.
And it was during such speculations that I got into some incredibly unexpected trouble, because I had something like a direct experience of, how should we put it, contact with another cognizia, another cognizium, one distinct from humans but highly intelligent.
Most of our experience as waking human beings in the human cognizium with the mimula and the thrips that inhabit it is incredibly crippling, dominating, tyrannical, confusing, deceptive, unintelligent,
and largely puts to the torch many of the unimaginable potentials that we brought to human birth that remain with us throughout our lifetime.
And this is because the thrips, the species of thrips with which we are familiar are primarily malignant, and even the relatively benign ideas with which we are familiar are still devastating in their effect.
And part of the reason for this is that human consciousness is actually an astonishingly unusual and sophisticated phenomenon.
And one toy that's useful in thinking about it is that it's based on a fundamental structure of meaning that lies underneath language.
This has to do with what we think fundamentally important key things are, things like the sun, the world, an animal, a human being, what we think these are, and why we think they are thus.
And we acquired conceptual ideas about what it means to be human, the sun, the world, from the human cognizium as we were forming our minds.
And unfortunately most of the ideas that we acquired have broken keys down in the foundations.
And by broken I mean deprived of necessary domains of meaning and of necessary domains of, how should we put it,
metonymic relation, that is part to whole relation, and metonymic relation, that is when, for example, a smaller instance of something is seen as the same as that from which it originates, the droplet of water is the ocean, this kind of thing.
So our minds, because we are representational animals and we live in a world that deeply involves language and concepts, are founded on key ideas that inform all other ideas.
So if we have a really advanced or intelligent idea about what separation and distinction are, all of our other ideas will resist being dominated by disabling fictions,
and will also give us a starting position from which to make trustworthy advances.
Whereas if we have a relatively misfounded idea of what separation and unity mean, then of course all of our other ideas are going to be broken.
It turns out to be similar if we have a relatively crude idea of what the sun is or if it's too monodimensional, existing only in one domain of meaning, or the world, or an animal, or tree, or human, or food, or dream.
It turns out there are these fundamental concepts underlying our minds, and we acquire them from our exposure to the human cognizium primarily as children, but in an ongoing way throughout our lives, these key elements.
Now we can develop them, if we can encounter or invent an intelligent culture, we can correct slightly, we don't have to correct them into perfectness, we just have to advance them beyond their presently deprived states.
These fundamental ideas, what the sun is, what the world is, what an animal is, what it means to be alive, what a dream is, what food is.
Then we will have new kinds of minds, and for humans this essentially means being a different species of animal, for we are the animal who's, rather than we speciate physically, we speciate in these, how shall we put it, we speciate in the kinds of minds and the purposes for which we develop minds.
These concepts turn out to be incredibly important for anyone who wants to understand more about human communications in general, what we communicate about a lot, and what gets our attention and how the process of competing for our attention plays out in social environments, media environments,
literary environments, academic environments, all of these different places, but also if somebody wants to delve into this deeply enough to find out how this all got started, get direct contact with some of these processes,
and see the different species of thrips that we're, not only that we're subject to, but that it's possible for us to produce, since of course all of them are produced by us.
So we have one species that's very dominant, aggressive, it goes after new terrain, it wants reproduction, and you can see this all throughout human culture, everywhere from the news, which is basically just pure, aggressively competing thrips, and politics in our country anyway in the United States, which is very similar.
And then we have science, which produces another species of thrips, and the media transforms that into another species of thrips that is even more deceptive.
Religion produces all these thrips that dominate, and actually cultures are born out of them, born out of interpretations of them.
And then we have, you know, corporations, brand names, all of these are highly thrips-like and compete constantly for human attention.
And reproduction rights, right, we want one person to transmit the thrips to another, and this kind of thing, music, you know.
So there's a thrips that's very dominating, and doesn't deliver a lot of benefit other than as a kind of, how shall we put it, a little charge, a little pop, a little, the kind of thing you get from consuming snack food, right?
But then there are another species of thrips that do not advertise, don't show up for common public transmission, don't compete much, and can be either benevolent or profoundly transformative.
And there's a third species that goes after pretenders, links to their networks, and then by a process that kind of sacrifices itself, destroys the networks, the false networks to which it was linked.
A sort of messianic thrips that wipes out a vast array of deceptions.
And then it does not necessarily need to rise into any kind of fame, notice, or prominence thereafter, though some of them do.
So we have, strangely, as human beings, we live in an unseen universe, this universe of the human cognizium, the mimula, all the ways that we communicate and exchange information and relate,
and what we relate with, which now profoundly includes machines, a far more problematical situation than we generally imagine.
And with these potentials come some rather shocking opportunities for exploration.
And one should have been obvious from the get-go, which is contact between the human cognizium and the other cognizia of Earth, which are incredibly ancient, highly intelligent, but not representational like ours.
Another is the possibility of contact with cognizia like ours, but above ours, cognizia that lie at a higher order of sophistication than the one where we normally play.
As you can see, human life and the possibilities of human minds and intelligence highly depend on all of these things.
They depend on what thrips were exposed to, how we relate with them, if we're capable of inventing them ourselves rather than just being subject to those that we're swimming in.
And if we understand these processes with some technical facility rather than just being subject to them.
Now, of course, what I'm presenting isn't a fact, it's a toy, it's a way of playing with perspective that gives us purchase on things we might otherwise find difficult to think about or talk about.
I guess there's one other thing I hope to mention before I close, which is that the cognizium seems to have a superposition over time for each species.
And it seems to me that individuals are born from this superposition into a terrestrial cognizium.
Now, I realize this is a radical supposition, but again, we're being speculative here.
What that would mean would be that all of the experience of human beings is stored in a pool that's like our cognizium but exists in a position above linear time.
And that somehow our minds and our lives are connected with this pool and inform it.
And so too that of all other creatures and those creatures with whom we live here on Earth, our cognizium is an organ of theirs and theirs is an organ of ours, both on Earth and in this superposition I here make a figure of.
What that means is that all of our relationships with other living beings on Earth radically instruct the cognizium, the supercognizium from which we will draw our minds and lives moment to moment and particularly in our birth.
And all that we do with other beings informs their cognizium as well, so thus their impression of what humans are on Earth, our impression of what other animals are on Earth, if we are in touch with these matters.
Why is this interesting?
Well, it's quite profoundly interesting because it means that if what I'm saying is true, every individual animal or organism is actually a peculiar localization of a vast interval over time, not just the span of their life.
And the span of their life informs this vaster interval and they inhabit both this vast interval over the span of all human lives and the individual interval over the span of their personal, you know, physical human life at once.
And this turns out to be really provocative if explored, again, at least as a toy.
Now, am I saying that I believe these things or that they are facts?
No, I'm saying that they are more like what I have understood and seen in nature than many of the theories and toys that I've encountered.
Have I direct experience of something like what I speak of?
Yes, I do all the time.
I think something very astonishing is going on on Earth and most of the ways that we are trained to think, including the very exotic ways, hide it and make it seem very simple and graspable when in fact it's, in one sense, unhideable.
And it is certainly not graspable, however, it's directly accessible to those who can adopt the appropriate purposive and perspectival orientation.
In this case, it is not so much a plan or a technique that is important, but one's purpose in looking or learning.
Thank you for your patience and listening.
I hope some of these ideas will intrigue you and lead you to further explorations of your own.
And until we meet again, I encourage you to continue to explore the incredible hidden opportunities of your human birth, intelligence and relationships with life on Earth.
