Hello everybody. Welcome. Thank you for joining me. I'm thinking this morning
about Owen Barfield's book, Saving the Appearances, a study in idolatry, and the
subtitle has to do with us moderns having developed something like idols in
consciousness, particularly due to the fact that for most of us, much of the time
as adults, we live in a world of representations. These are tags and
concepts in language that stand for the things that we think we are recognizing
in awareness, a tree, a chair, a process, a quality, a color, sound, and in our
modern experience, we aren't having a lot of experience. Mostly what we're having
is representations and thinking about the relationships between them. Experience
itself begins as participated. In childhood, before we've developed
representational lexicons, before we've adopted and been scripted by the
representations of our modernity and culture, we're having something a bit
more like dreaming in waking consciousness, and this is why children
are so profoundly imaginative and playful. We are told that we grow out of
this. That is not what happens. What happens is that layers of representational
cognition at first leak in and are wiped away at night when we dream, but
eventually, there's enough structure left over from dreaming that the
construction of a represented world and universe and so on becomes
trenchant and eventually evicts the dreaming faculty and the dream the
faculties of dreaming from our waking world experience. This, for many of us,
becomes the death of our imagination. Unless we find some way to continue to
play imaginatively in the waking world, and this is often preserved or
accomplished by what we call art. Theatre, music, singing, dancing, sometimes
writing, although writing is a bit more representational or pseudo-left
hemispheric, and so in childhood we undergo a process that I think is
signified by the story in the Bible of Cain and Abel, where Cain kills Abel,
evicting Abel to the underworld. This story is echoed in a broad number of
cultures, including American Indian cultures. In the Navajo beauty way
traditions, the two children are called Slayer of Alien Gods, Cain, and Little
Water of the Moon, Abel. In the same way that in the Bible, Hevel means a puff of
vapor, right? Little Water of the Moon is thought of as vaporous, and that means a
changing, transforming, manifold of possible identity, meaning, and activity.
In Barfield's book, he begins by talking about the rainbow, because it's one of the
few phenomenon that we may experience directly, which nearly requires
participation, or what he means by participation, to experience because
clearly the rainbow is not literally there. In fact, it's not really in a
place at all. It's in the between of origin and minds, and this is one of the
features that makes the rainbow so fascinating. Yes, a machine can detect a
rainbow, but it's a matter of point of view in relation to water, sunlight,
other light, so on. He calls figuration the process of non-participated
recognition. Again, I won't go deeply into what participation means, but it
means something that resembles how children are in the world, but much more
advanced versions of this, or forms of this, in adult minds, tribal consciousness,
and tradition, ceremony, and so on. These are forms of participation that are
largely lost to us moderns. We rarely have experiences of them, and one of the
reasons that psychedelic drugs are so important and popular is that it's very
difficult, and one might say that psychedelic drugs force our consciousness
into a state resembling, not the same as, but resembling original participation.
He calls figuration the process of recognizing and relating with object
situations, circumstances, and so on, according to our modern representations,
and the problem with that is that they are dead inside. There's no
habitable space in there for our psyche, our spirit, our vital mind, and so on. In
this sense, knowledge, what we think of as knowledge, is dead to origin. It does
not include any upscale, originary features other than the universe and
physics, right? And those are basically mechanical, utilitarian, mechanical models
of cause and effect that enable us to predict things with very high degrees
of accuracy, certain kinds of things. Now, originally, okay, let me just continue
with a couple of other key terms. He calls alpha thinking the process of
thinking in representational cognition about the representations and their
relationships to each other, how they transform each other, and so on. Alpha
thinking is a great deal of what we do if we go to the store, if we're doing any
pragmatic activity. It is the primary mode of thinking that science is and
utilizes. And then he presents beta thinking, which is the kind of thing I'm
doing right now, as thinking about our minds consciousness, how we navigate in
thought, understanding, figuring things out, and effectively thinking about our
psyche, any kind of reflection on the nature of mind and consciousness. So
figuration is recognition, according to representational overlays that we've
developed, that have been developed over time in our transmitted generation to
generation, in language, thought, culture, society, and so on. Alpha thinking is
thinking about the relation, the representations themselves and their
relationships in representational thought. And beta thinking is thinking about
consciousness, the mind, how we relate with representations, participation,
original participation, and so on. Now, it turns out that in his view, a view
that I think is very valuable. Archaic thought was fundamentally different
from ours, in that it was a form of thought that arose from the direct
experience of original participation in the world from phenomenon and
relationships. Our kind of thought is mostly not like this. In fact, it's
anathema to that kind. And it turns out that if we're thinking carefully, there
is a deadly problem with the idea of knowledge. Knowledge will eventually
become representational for human beings, as it has for us, more so than in any
other generation of mankind thus far, less so than it will be in the near
term future, partly due to the onset of scientific modes of thinking and
particularly technology, specifically computers. So it turns out that knowledge,
right, we hear in the Genesis story, there are two trees in the garden. You
shouldn't eat from one of them because it is death. And then, of course, Eve in
this story goes to the tree and there's a serpent there. Probably what is meant
by that is an angel and probably the angel that divides things. It makes cuts
in manifolds the same way that our representational cognition does. So we
go, we cut from origin to the universe, to something, to thing, being, function,
relationship, to organisms, right? That's a being, to plants, vegetal beings, to
tree, to apple tree, to apples, right? These are the cuts that we make in the
manifold of identity whenever we consider something specifically. So Eve
meets the angel of dividing things. They have a conversation. The angel says,
well, you won't really die. You'll be able to make stuff. You'll become a maker,
right? Because the one who cuts determines identity by the cuts they make. Now,
there's a lot of rich backstory here that I don't have time to go into. But
effectively, knowledge, as we experience representational knowledge at least, is
dead to origin, right? To where all beings descend from. Yeah, whether that's
the universe in a purely mechanical idea, or whether it's a being like God, or
whether it's a being that's outside of our common classifications or beings that
inhabit time space and the between of all beings in consciousness and
intelligence. Knowledge is dead inside, particularly representational knowledge.
It's not habitable the way original participation and the thoughts that
emerge from minds engaged in that was. Now, in order to understand a little bit
about what the archaic mind was, it wasn't exactly symbolic. It was more
analogical in a sense so that, for example, I'll give a few examples. But
first, I want to talk about the difference between a representation and
participation. So, the idea of money is to value itself, right? Kind of
anathema, right? It collapses all forms of value into a tokenized representation
that can be exchanged. And this partly occludes participation from us. This is
the kind of representation that happens when original participation dies.
Everything becomes commodities, pictures, photographs, social media videos. People
represent themselves rather than being themselves for the sake of garnering
audience and perhaps opportunities and cash. So, money is to value as
representational thought, our kind, is to our original participation, right? And in
the archaic mind, everything that we could experience, you have to throw away
the whole idea of causality. Cause and effect has nearly nothing to do with
how ancient people were likely to have thought and experienced their world. Let
me give you some examples, at least one of analogies. So, as bees are to flowers,
nectar, as bees are to flowers, nectar and honey, something is to minds,
relationships and death, right? Or birth, both. And as bees are to flowers and
honey, something is to worlds, right? So, there is something, you can see there's
a multi-order, a multi-ordinal ladder of identity, so that what we see down
here are analog, down here on earth, right, in material existence, our
analogies of things in the origin world, which is usually thought of as the sky.
So, this mode of thinking is radically different from most of what we moderns do
and leads to identity sets that are completely different from those we are
familiar with. This is why it is very confusing for moderns to encounter
tribal peoples and to see how they have arranged the spiral of analogic
relationships in the physical world and the relational world, radically
different from the purposes for which we use representational thought. They are
capable of thought, they are capable of forming linked families of qualities,
properties, identities and so on, but they do not do it according to the weird
logics we use. Rather, they do it according to experiences of deep
participation and the sort of dreaming-like results of those experiences.
The topic is very rich and deep. I merely wanted to introduce a few features that
were in my mind at the moment. Particularly, however, it's very important
to understand that there's something that stands in the opposite position of
what we experience as knowledge and it's a form of insight that sees all of the
features of our experience as representative of features of the
universe, origin, dreaming and participated relation. And knowledge, as we
understand it, though there is, there are forms of knowledge that can be
participated. Dreaming is one of them that's common to all of us, but you can
see that dreaming is nothing like the waking mind. There are the figures that
we see in the waking mind, but the dreamers experience of those figures is
fundamentally different and it's participated rather than represented in
consciousness. And so we live in a time where our knowledge is profuse but dead
inside. And this is, I think, what was meant. Something in this direction was
meant in the very small fragment of what was probably a larger book in
Genesis where we hear of the tree of life and the tree of knowledge. Though
first we hear, stay away from the tree of knowledge. By the way, that tree, when
God says in the Bible, when it is said that God says, do not eat of the tree in
the midst of the garden, that word midst appears to come from a Hebrew root
Tavek, which means to put apart, to part, right? It doesn't really mean in the
middle of. And this is analogous, right? If we were thinking in the old way, we
would think, oh, it means the umbilicus of the earth or Eden, right? It's where
Eden was cut away from heaven, something like this. A similar, just to give one
more example of analogic thinking that is actually really important. Our hand, one
unifying body for working members, one thinking member with two segments, is to
our body, right? For working members with three segments, one thinking member with
two unifying body, as our body is to origin, right? This is an example of the
form of thought, which was fundamentally metaphoric and analogical, that Barfield
proposes archaic peoples experienced. So that's my brief introduction to some of
the topics in Owen Barfield's Saving the Appearances, a book I profoundly
recommend and I'm reading for probably the fifth time at the moment. Thank you
for joining me. I look forward to spending time learning and exploring
together again very soon. Bye bye for now.
