Hey everybody.
I'm here at the lawn bowling fields.
Here's the entire Geranium Nation.
And as you can see, just like ours, it's divided into right and left.
But which one's right and which one's left depends on where you're standing.
You know, when I stand across from someone, my right becomes their left.
And so we have to reverse if we want to know, for example, which side of their face is the right side.
And it's unfortunate that we have this idea of rightness transferred.
And in case you didn't notice, right-handedness is dominant, so that's an in-group.
And it's an in-group we corral children into who might have been ambidextrous or left-handed.
Yeah, great, great stuff.
But important to think about because we're bilaterally symmetrical animals.
But there is actually this idea that the right side is right.
And I don't know if this trope, I don't know, I'd love to see the examples of languages in which this trope doesn't transfer, right?
In which, for example, the word used to refer to the right side of our bodies is not the same word that is used to indicate the good, the true, the correct, the authorized, the orthodox, the trustworthy.
Now, if I'm standing beside someone, which is, for animals, far, far less confrontational in a general way than standing in front of them, then what?
Well, I'm still in a situation where my left hand is on the side that their right hand is on.
And if I'm on the other side, then my right hand is on the side their left hand is on.
Now, I've accidentally wandered into a topic where the idea of good or true or correct has become involved.
And it is part of my purpose to explore that.
We are strangely born of conflicts.
Our bilateral symmetry is an adaptation to the circumstances evolutionarily and environmentally on Earth.
And unless I miss my guess, here most complex organisms embody it.
They're bilaterally symmetrical.
They're mirror reflections, right?
Each side of them is like a mirroring of the other side, presuming there are sides at all.
We first must invoke the idea of sides before we become capable of awareness of symmetry,
at least of conscious or linguistic awareness of it.
But to walk, I don't move both my feet at the same time, though I might to jump.
And so precedence is traded off back and forth between the aspects of my body when I'm walking.
Now, we're so deeply divided in a sense, though I think there's a much better word than divided.
There is the idea that when two conflicting aspects are joined,
there's a superposition above precedence of one or the other from which otherwise impossible abilities obtain or can be realized.
And this is, in my view, an analogy drawn from nature.
I think our people easily become confused and distracted by the idea of conflict,
presuming erroneously and catastrophically that the goal of conflict is for one side to win.
Well, the analogy of that in my body would be a stroke. One side wins.
One has a stroke either on the right or left hemisphere.
In many cases, they lose the capacity to move the opposite side of the body, which is what belongs to the hemisphere in question.
If they have a stroke on the right hemisphere, they'll be likely to be able to continue to understand language and things and admit it.
And if they have a stroke on the left hemisphere, they're likely to lose the capacity to speak.
So, faculties, though both of our hemispheres participate in them,
most of them, they appear to be at least fuzzily localized and may in fact be a result of the difference, right?
The differential between the two sides of our corpus callosum, surface wrinkly stuff of our brains.
But the idea of correctness is a bizarre idea when made explicit
and a useful principle, meaning it stays fuzzy and gets inflected by intuition and context and moment and surroundings and all kinds of factors that I could go on naming in a very tedious way for a long time.
Strangely, in our language, correctness is associated with the right side of the body.
And I suspect it's true in at least a few western languages, if not broadly true.
Principles can be useful conveniences. Rules rob us of sensitivity and liberty.
And we can even have self-ironizing rules, like everyone must have liberty.
When rules become explicit, our interiority and our consciousness collapses either into obedience or rebellion.
Hopefully that sounds at least modestly religious.
Because we are creatures habituated to a usually relatively superficial relationship with language,
the language in which we think about things and our responses to language we read or hear
produce an effect I'll refer to as framing, right?
And in some cases, language can induce frame collapse.
And I'll give you a toy-like example of that.
But for anyone who's not inhabiting the position above the language in which they hopefully with awareness and intelligence
have a more selective and volitional relationship with language and its meanings and possibilities.
And I'm referring to, I don't know, 90% of people, maybe, 70 at least.
For them, language collapses the frame all the time.
And so that means essentially they don't really have the opportunity to have something like a mind.
And if language itself doesn't do it, then concepts do.
And if that doesn't do it, then ideas do, right?
It's really easy to collapse the incredible, accessible superpositions of human consciousness down into these little concretized demon-like things
that swarm about in populations and even in individuals,
turning the possibility of the infinite degrees of freedom
innate in our humanity and our capacity for consciousness,
not merely consciousness, but self-consciousness, reflexive consciousness, consciousness of being conscious.
And positions above that that we have no way to talk about, we can only reach for an inhabitant.
Cultures are experiences of rules and frameworks for validation, authorization, justification.
All of these things have a framing effect on nearly everyone who is awake in the sense of, you know, not being physically asleep.
And our dreaming each night is wrestling with that nemesis monster, right?
It's wrestling with that metropolis of swarming frameworks and frames and concepts and ideas and identities, right?
That's a tree, it's a woodpecker, this is wrong, this is right.
And we simulated an internal courtroom because most of us were taught that that's how you figure out whether something's wrong or right.
And if we weren't taught by the courtroom, we were taught by the book of the law, right?
We were taught by the Bible, the Quran, the Talmud, the Dao De Ching.
We were taught by books in language, all of which are incredibly ambiguous.
And can be turned to almost any perspective you want to turn them for nearly any purpose you wish to, including weaponizing them.
Including weaponizing them to become processes in human culture that continuously feed on the minds and lives of the beings they convert.
Where they do not, in fact, prosper or enlighten them.
There are edge cases, it's not all bad.
And that's one of the differences between principles and rules.
Principles are the result of a perspective of concern or awareness or memory.
Rules are a different thing, they collapse the frame.
So, if you always obey a rule, well, this is where language gets complicated.
One can't merely say rules are bad.
What we can say is, if followed explicitly, they usually lead to self-confident addiction and catastrophe.
So a long time ago in Star Trek, when it was first on television in the 60s,
and it was a big deal back then, because it was providing social commentary.
However, nostalgically naive, some of it might seem today.
It was a big deal back then.
And Starfleet, which is the sort of navy version of the unified Federation of Planets, the good guys, so to speak.
The right, the right people.
Anyway, they gave a captain a ship and they said, look, you have to obey our directives.
Until and unless you encounter a situation for which they're insufficient.
So there was a principle and there was a doorway out of it.
Now, that's an incredibly simplified and very collapsed frame, but it gives you an idea of, you know, the difference between slavery and autonomy.
A difference within that array of concerns.
Do the right thing.
Do the right thing.
It's almost impossible to, I mean, because it doesn't say do a right thing, it says do the right thing.
Like there's just one right thing to be done, really, okay?
See the frame collapse?
I'm gonna collapse the frame a little more clearly here for a second using language by posing a toy.
And the toy is this sentence is meaningless.
Now, does language decide for us its own value?
Can it?
In other words, can language jump up above minds and declare facts to them?
The way this statement and many of the ideas presently popular do.
You see the frame collapse?
It doesn't just collapse the cloud of ambiguity and concern and perspective and awareness and intention and motivation and memory.
It doesn't just collapse that into language, which is already an astonishing collapse.
No, it actually collapses minds themselves into language, proposing that language tells minds what to read,
what to, how to interpret it, which thankfully is not so.
But you can see the collapse.
And if we naively accept the frame collapsing stuff that's going on all around us,
which is actually an attempt at disambiguating the incredible swarming, seething ambiguity that is the nature of life,
even when it reliably stays together around me, you know, doesn't just dissolve suddenly into chaos, hopefully.
So that mess, that metropolis that the dreaming mind has to, you know, try to ameliorate and try to heal every night.
And by the way, this is what our dreams are about.
You don't have to take my word for it.
Just play with the perspective and see what happens for you.
This metropolis of frames and frame collapse and bizarre abstraction intrudes into what we might otherwise experience as astonishingly spacious,
liberated and liberating awareness and medicinal heartfulness and natural humility and reverence and awe and wonder and play and ecstasy.
No, we get the metropolis mostly instead.
And all of its imperatives and projects, which include sacrificing ourself to it.
In case that wasn't clear, because if as a human being, you don't have the opportunity to explore and discover the unimaginable faculties available to you as consciousness,
then you have been deprived of what is among the most fundamental of our, of the essence.
You know, we were being deprived of the fundamental essence.
Not merely of our nature as animals, but of our nature as human beings.
So anything that can return a little bit of that liberty to us authentically is profoundly medicinal.
And I'm very interested in, in that goal, in that future, in this present moment.
Like someone who watches birds, who've had their wings bound to their bodies all their lives, since how I feel about our people.
And many brave women and men throughout history have shared this vision and this passion, this intention.
And some have succeeded, even though their voices are overwhelmed by the noise floor of a culture driven too easily by nothing other than the language we use to communicate.
Well, I think most of the communication is pretending.
And what really communicates is our bodies, that left-right thing.
People use the right side of their face differently than they use the left side of their face in conversation.
And so too in their body, with relating with other people in what we call body language.
Really, it's as if there are three people.
The right side person, the left side person, and the often neglected superposition above them that upon which they both depend and which they both transform and create together.
And we can do something like this as individual humans. We can make these little superpositions.
We do it all the time. We're just not necessarily aware of how powerful or transformative it is.
Because in our minds, it seems normal, we've normalized it.
It's not normal.
Or rather, it's non-ordinary, even though it is among the most ordinary things that humans do all day.
They just don't do it freely. They do it mostly according to habits and frameworks and the results of frame collapse and all kinds of crap like this.
Sort of like broken robots.
Mostly robotic, but some modicum of free will left that is easily deflected by causing them fear, outrage, desire, nostalgia, hatred, prejudice, bias.
All of these things.
How are we to contend with such a diverse library of threats?
Well, there isn't a rule for that. There's some principles.
So something occurred to me earlier while I was listening to a podcast.
It's not my intention here to recommend or oppose any given religion.
There's plenty of time for such conversations elsewhere.
But we might be a little bit confused about certain documents that underlie at least the Abrahamic religions.
And for this, for my purpose at the moment, I'm just going to talk about the Bible.
So for the in-group people, the people who say we are religious, we believe the Bible.
By the way, what an astonishing frame collapse. We believe a book.
I mean, that's a really weird thing to say because there's a lot of material in that book.
And lots of it stands in stark contrast to other parts of it.
And it would be very confusing if you took it as a book of laws to put it mildly.
But my goal here is just to notice that the in-group people revere the Bible,
perhaps seeing it as the authorized word of the actual being that created the universe.
Now, there's all kinds of complexity in there. It's not that all those people just believe one thing.
Some of them are capable of reading religious texts with a degree of detachment or curiosity or wonder or confusion.
And or some of them are capable of recognizing it as a inexplicable mystery,
even though it's written down in language and so forth.
So there's all kinds of interpretations over there.
And then most of the other people will see the Bible primarily as something like a dangerous disease.
And some people will see it as a kind of historical document.
But what I want to suggest for a moment is that I get to select the frames I want to use
in order to try to make the kinds of sense I'm looking for out of the existence of this incredibly bizarre packet of pages.
And it's a really puzzling one.
I don't have to be religious to be concerned about the Bible.
I don't have to be religious to be fascinated by the Bible.
I can be partly religious. I can be religious in the morning and an atheist at night.
I can do whatever I want with my awareness in relation to an artifact, particularly a historical artifact,
a very complex artifact that has all kinds of properties that are fascinatingly amazing,
even if I don't decide that this is the rule book, right?
That's a frame collapse.
So I'm going to keep an open frame for a moment above the Bible and talk very briefly about a couple of features of it that I find interesting.
Now I'm fascinated by the creation story, and I'm not going to delve too deeply into that.
But to me, that looks like the fragment of a lost array of books.
And I have the suspicion that the Bible itself is a, you know, there are books that were lost before it was constructed.
And I think there's evidence in the Bible itself about this.
So we may, in the very early stories, be looking at fragments of what were themselves once, you know, entire books.
And I suspect Genesis has this property.
And there's all kinds of fascinating ways to think about Genesis.
It's where the big accident happens, right?
And humanity is, well, of course, people call it a sin or an error or whatever.
And by the way, I just want to say the idea of reading books that were written in Hebrew and English is ridiculous.
I've done it, but I encourage people who are actually interested to learn the languages that the documents were written in.
And particularly Hebrew and Aramaic and I think a specific type of Greek.
Because there's no way to translate Hebrew into English.
And if you really think the Bible is the word of God, you should be reading in Hebrew.
In my view.
But it's not a rule, it's a principle, right?
Like, how will you understand in Hebrew single letters have meanings?
I mean, they have numbers, they have complex entity or they have complex interiority that changes when you put them together and stuff like this.
It's really an astonishingly sophisticated.
And important to have an experience of language because then you realize like, oh, maybe there was a set of frame collapses over the evolution of language itself.
That led us to the mess we're in now with with it.
And that's certainly partly true.
Originally, Hebrew had incredible ambiguity because compared to written English, because the vowels weren't written.
They had to be supplied by a living mind.
Think about that for a moment.
That means there's no such thing as a written word.
If you don't complete it with your mind, the word isn't there.
How about that?
That sound interesting?
So it would probably be really difficult to make an explicit declaration in Hebrew, in written Hebrew.
Although I'm sure people who speak and write Hebrew will disagree with me about that.
But there's an incredible feature there, right?
That will not write the spirit words, the words that flow.
We'll write only where they stop.
Only kind of the consonants, the fricatives and such.
In any case.
The big mess in Genesis happens and we can think about this one way to look at it.
And it'd be good to have seven or eight, but I don't have that much time.
It's just that this is the onset of representational consciousness.
What happens at the tree is that we learn how to think about things as cut apart from one another.
We got the knife in our mind that allowed us to distinguish.
And that knife extinguishes unity first.
And not just one kind of unity, but maybe 50 or 60 forms of unity.
That would otherwise leap forth to our awareness and consciousness.
Once we begin the process of acquiring language and knowledge.
The faculties that comprise the origins of our awareness begin to collapse toward those frames.
And toward the processes of making, sustaining, defending, reinforcing these frames.
And this is what the dreaming mind comes at night to try to kind of wash away.
And it succeeds when we're children, right?
Because we don't have a huge frame collection yet.
We haven't been metropolized.
Coin that term now.
So there's the tree event, which I've covered elsewhere and I'll cover again.
But it's one way of thinking about it is it's the onset of the capacity to think.
And to feel distinct from everything.
To feel isolated alone, to isolate things, to compare them, to evaluate them.
To name them, to associate them with qualities.
Specific.
Denotated.
Explicit.
Concrete.
Declaration.
Total frame collapse into an artifact.
A token, right?
That's either a concept or a name or a taxonomy, so on.
Resulting in tokenization, right?
And this replaces awareness and consciousness.
So this is one way of looking at it.
There are many other useful ways, but right after that two children are born.
And these two children and the two sides of our bodies are very important.
To put it mildly.
Somehow, perhaps mystically, perhaps by incredible observation, perhaps by direct union with the divine.
The ancient Hebrews and indigenous peoples all over the world were aware that we're bipolar animals.
We're bisymmetrical, but we're also these two sides conflict.
And the story of Cain and Abel occurs.
And in this story, the guy who draws lines in the earth, who raises crops, kills his brother, who's much gentler.
And watches over flocks of animals, Abel or Hevel.
So, a bunch of stuff happens, the two children are born.
This story gets repeated in cultures that vastly predate the Bible.
Cain is like the right side, Abel's like the left, which is, by the way, the side without which you have no heart.
Also, probably the side in most of us associated with dreaming.
Cain kills his brother, becomes the progenitor of mankind, humanity, however you want to say it, our species, our cultures, primarily.
And then, so this is the crucial origin story.
And that's something that, believe it or not, happened to every single one of us in childhood.
But instead of happening in a nation, it happened in a cranium.
Eventually, the frame-like forces overcome the dreaming force.
Our imagination begins to die in various different ways, unique to each of us, and more severe in many of us than in others.
Artists often preserve more of this, creatively minded people, people who are playful, manage to preserve some aspect of Hevel's character in waking mind.
Again, these are just perspectives I'm suggesting for a moment, and I'm going somewhere with this.
So, at some point in my life, this hand began to dominate my activities, and I reinforced that, and it was reinforced by my parents and my peers in the tools and manipulable objects
that I would encounter, all of which were made for right-handed people.
So, if I'm allowed to form the frame above which I learned from the Bible, what I find is a record of the cognitive evolution of our species in chapters.
I don't find a book of laws or rules. I don't necessarily learn a whole bunch about the divine, but I do learn about our people and our history.
And the Bible's an infinite book. Actually, most books are infinite books, but the Bible's an infinite book in a peculiar way.
The nature of the mystery to which it refers absolutely resists disambiguation into declarations. Absolutely.
Language and concepts cannot encompass the mystery to which this book refers.
Therefore, no interpretation seems authoritative to me.
It's a mystery. It's a dream book from this perspective.
Now, there's two things that aren't ordinarily noticed about the Bible that I've long been aware of.
And the first is that it's a little bit like a children's book that shows the phases of development of the entire species over time from a given array of concerns and perspectives.
So it's like a book of hours for the lifespan of human beings.
But there's another really interesting feature of it, and that means that each of those chapters have to do with phases in the development of humanity over time, or they can be read this way.
And there's lots of interesting ways to read them. I just don't want us to think we have to either believe it or not, because that has nothing to do with the Bible.
That has to do with humans doing bizarre cult-like behavior and having in-groups and out-groups and us's and them's.
And those groups have some incredibly bizarre and catastrophically ignorant ideas and behaviors.
Not all of them, but most of them.
Martin, I love their acrobatic flight. It's incredible.
So it can be seen as a book of hours, and it can also be seen as a book of hours for the life of a single human being.
And again, from a particular array of concerns and perspectives.
Not telling us what to expect or what is, but offering us parables and analogies and tropes with which we might gain some insight about the nature of being human.
And then there's this weird third thing that I'll mention, that I find it rather surprising that it's not more widely suggested.
If you read the Bible carefully, you'll see this heartbeat happening.
And what the heartbeat is, or not what it is, but from this perspective, it takes on the appearance of the attempted resurrection of Abel.
Abel is killed. This is a big deal. It's the first murder in the Bible. It's the first lie in the Bible.
It's done by the guy who becomes apparently the father of all future people.
This might be a metaphysical being, a primordial being. It may not be a human.
And this mostly gets overlooked in religion. All of these three things that I've said.
Though I'm sure some people will have encountered similar ideas.
I think the last one is actually kind of the more radical one, where as you step through the Bible, you can feel this ebb and flow of the presence of Abel.
His spirit, his character.
Hevel, which actually means puff of vapor.
He's the cloud. He's uncollapsed to frameworks. He's transforming in atmosphere.
He's the flock on the landscape. He's the murmuration of birds in the sky.
The transforming shape, the dancing unity of thousands as one.
He's the superposition. He's the dreaming mind.
And he doesn't want to kill his brother, so he remains imprisoned for most of the day.
And his brother deals with all those frame thingies.
Now I'm just using the masculine gender. We can think of pain and able as women if we want.
You can play with the story however seems appropriate to you.
But there's this pulse in the Bible of the emergence both of humans, men mostly, sometimes women,
that either indirectly or quite directly represent Abel's character.
And one way to understand the birth of Christ is as the announcement to the world that Abel is now back online.
In the waking world that Abel is coming back online so to speak.
And thus will come to life again in each of us.
And the precedents will invert so that the gentle, intuitive, creative, playful participation, intimacy of Abel,
will guide the frame maker and will resist frame collapse in play as we did when we were children.
And of course, if indeed this perspective is useful and truthful, then what happens to Christ is tragically preordained.
Because at that time the world was seething with the wrath of Cain in a way.
And one of the weird things about Cain is it produces combatant like formations of humans and thought and perspective and belief that tear each other apart.
There's an old drama triangle going on here that might be important to have some insight about.
And the ancient peoples were aware that it was related to the sides of our bodies.
It's unknown whether they understood that this side of the brain related to this side of the body,
it seems likely though because it can be observed from injury, various kinds of injury from battle and misadventure.
So yeah, I just wanted to present these three perspectives on the Bible.
It's a profound document that can shed light on the development of human consciousness over the span that it reasonably covers.
And it gives us some insight, some kind of secret insights hidden in there all over the place for those curious enough to look at it as like a mysterious mirror rather than a set of declarations.
And this doesn't require anything like religion.
You don't have to believe in anything to have this experience of the Bible if you so desire.
And I'm not even recommending it.
I'm just putting this on the table so that there will be a few more perspectives other than this is the word of God or this is nonsense.
Because that's total frame collapse.
There's no way we're going to be able to make any sense out of something if those are the choices on the table.
I'm going to definitely invent like seven other choices.
That's a cage with one wall that I'm not walking into.
And I was just reflecting on the profundity of this, right?
The heartbeat of the resurrection of Abel in the Bible.
What that might mean for us if we became aware of the opportunities therein infigured.
It seems to pretend an astonishing liberation from the relatively cruel confines of language and conceptual thought when we are subject to them.
When they tell us what to think, believe or whether or whether they prime us by showing us a frame.
Knowing that makes an impression using that nuanced or subtle move to then intrude or invade into consciousness or belief and plant the seeds of metropolises and frame collapse.
And when that campaign succeeds, we are deprived of degrees of liberty, forms of liberty in consciousness and relation.
So concretely that we will not only forget they ever exist, we'll be incapable of imagining them.
And so we are then fodder.
We are then the victims of the frameworks and the institutions and the sort of false abstract crust like crystallizations of culture and economy and war and religion.
Our wings get glued to our backs.
So yeah, this heartbeat fascinates me and the book of hours fascinates me because I know whether or not I can map the entire book onto my life in a way that makes sense, which I've never actually tried to do.
It's pretty easy to see that Genesis happened to me and something like the apocalypse, the end of life, will happen to me.
And there was something like the resurgence of Abel in me and there was something like his inexplicable crucifixion in me.
So the analogy overall, it intrigues me. I'm not convinced, but it's intriguing.
And the same thing about, right, this is a map of the developmental arc of our species.
Maybe the apocalypse is forever. Maybe it's a morphogenesis.
Or maybe at the end our species transforms. It's not entirely clear. There seems some promise of that.
Right and left, right and wrong, good or bad, above and below, on my side, these figures in our language have priming energy.
They have priming effect, more so when we're unconscious of them and differently when we're conscious of them.
So these are my thoughts for the moment. I'm grateful to all my listeners and I hope you derive something exciting or fascinating or useful from
sharing time together, helping me get a little exercise in my body and my mind and maybe if I'm lucky, my consciousness.
Until next week, meet. Bye bye for now.
