Our waking minds, and our languages, our technologies, are habituated to produce derivatives.
So to make the words that I'm making here, to collapse from, in steps actually, from
all the possibilities of all of the actions and ways my mind and senses and orientation
might be, it is as if I fall down a cone.
And we used to have access to much of the cone, but as we became more familiar with
language, as our minds transformed into a likeness that could manipulate it, we lost
access to the upper orders of this cone that our conscious mind certainly has access to.
It seems clear that our sub and unconscious mind, these are strange ways of talking about
one thing, but the aspects of mind that aren't available directly to our consciousness, and
there may be peculiar organs here, there may be something at least analogous to a psyche,
for example.
What exactly that means might be difficult to say, but let us imagine some kind of pool
where rather than there being symbols, there are the inclinations of certain kinds of figures
to form or be sustained from a body of potential, much like language, isn't that interesting?
Of all the possibilities of language, our experiences are extremely limited.
We've never known, most of us will never know what it is to be linguistic, rather we shall
know something of what it is to know a language, but what I want to get at is kind of strange
and difficult to notice ordinarily.
As I'm speaking right now, I'm traveling down this cone from all the things I might
do to some things I might do to this thing I might do, to me talking, to actually not
knowing how I'm going to put sentences together, what I will say next, and then iterating travel
down into structure, down into derivatives, where finally actual words come out of my
mouth in a sequence that I haven't pre-planned and is both practiced and somehow improvised.
But once I'm down here in language, as I am now, far from the places where insight,
which is another order of apprehension and participation in consciousness, I may involve
noticing the process that I'm clumsily dancing around with my words here.
These activities, we are not normally consciously aware of them, nor are we inclined to invent
new ones, although children and some very creative people do very naturally.
These are generally seen by us ordinary folk as either prodigies or insane or primitive,
meaning undeveloped, and also unsophisticated.
We don't generally appreciate the actual sophistication of the child's intelligence, particularly
as it attempts to struggle with the bald absurdity of formal representational paradigms such
as languages, especially the way adults and bureaucracies use them.
So there's something very interesting about all of this.
It's not unnatural that many of the languages that we are aware of, even though this is
not so much true of English, it is still partly true, orient the derivatives according to gender,
so that even for English speakers, we generally will not refer to a water-going vessel as
a he.
We will call a ship a she, and the ocean is sort of generally understood as feminine,
and so too the world.
The sun is generally understood as masculine.
Even though we might not declare it, everybody gets that a circle is feminine, and a rod
is masculine.
It's just relatively obvious.
You can look at the biology of our bodies and see this written there, right?
Obviously, the lock is feminine, the key is masculine.
The steering wheel is feminine, the stick shift is masculine, the pedals are masculine.
So in many languages, this is somewhat formally or informally present, so that in some languages
that I'm not personally familiar with, but I know these exist, some nouns are specifically
feminine and others specifically masculine, and there's another couple of qualities that
might go long that aren't immediately intuitively obvious, but might be something like, oh,
it's so very tiny, it's the little thing, right?
Or oh, that's very vague, or oh, that's so very big and momentous, it's a big thing.
And all of these features in the languages have emotional connotations that are of course
missing largely from English.
And we should understand that where that's missing, that's a loss of dimensionality.
That's not a closer purchase on reality.
As we imagine, that's not better focus, right?
You just got rid of that superstitious stuff.
No, quite the obvious, excuse me, quite the opposite.
Our imaginations and our participation in the experience of understanding always will
tend to work, not work, but to give us a richer and deeper and more broad and intelligent
experience if the dimensionality is greater.
Normally the reason that we get rid of some of that dimensionality, the reason that we
collapse down into structure, is for utility, right?
We want a very specific outcome.
We've decided that.
We want, for example, very rigorous purchase upon the meanings of words and their relationships
with actual objects in the world.
And so eventually you get a mind that says, well, of course, things aren't really gendered.
A cigarette is not really masculine, and the packet comes in as not really feminine.
Yeah, we're making a mistake there.
For while that is one method of using language and relating with it, that's perfectly functional
and good in its proper context, often a narrow context.
And that method leaps up and starts to swallow the other contexts and demand that everybody
talk this way and think this way and see this way.
That's a terrifying catastrophe, right?
And can't be correct, by the way, there's no possible way that could be true.
Imagination and the living sense of a mind standing above language and ideas is what
it means to have a mind and be human.
And the worst sort of more catastrophically we fall down into the derivatives, start to
become them, see as them, and then yell up toward imagination and understanding and intelligence
that they must somehow bow to the declaration, bow to the description, explicitly authorize
and agree with it.
Well, that's not intelligence.
That's one of the traps of representational cognition the way we think.
So what I want to finally get at after that long prologue is that the genders themselves
must be expressions of a superposition.
In other words, a transgendered position.
So that there's no way that there's merely the sun and the earth, right?
You don't merely have men and women.
In fact, if we try to think about certain microscopic organisms as being explicitly sexual, I think
some of them have like seven sexes.
And then they can modulate and they're dynamic.
It's very unlike what we ordinarily think about as gender.
And so we see, of course, in nature, essentially gender descends, you know, formally gendering
things descends from a transgendered state.
It's impossible, but it's otherwise.
This time is neither masculine nor feminine.
So that we might understand that from a manifold, one mode of, how shall we put it, one mode
of observer chosen perspective will produce a zero or a ring representing origin.
Observer will produce a one or a rod representing, hmm, harder to say, progeneration.
Also self making nests.
This one appears to have made itself, the zero is invisible.
So if you look at this one, it looks self made.
Therefore, if you look toward God, it looks self made.
God is that one.
God is the one of coming of oneness, right?
So interestingly, if you look toward the token we use toward God, you're only going to see
the one, you're not going to see the, you're going to see true north on the compass.
The compass will be thrown away, you'll forget there's a needle, you're going to look at one
degree of 360 and it's the only one that stands out, right?
By the way, that's the one that talks.
That's like the speaking mind, whereas the zero is like the dreaming myriad manifold
from which that's collapsing into expression, instant to instant, invisibly.
It has no identity, you can't even refer to it.
So what's interesting here is we can see that origin is invisible and what we tend to see
is the relatively masculine self-progenerating one, which is expression, x-oppression, and
stands forth.
Now its truest role is peculiar, it's the hero of the zero.
But when somehow having forgotten this, this property inverts and it claims the zero, its
origin has no value, or possibly is evil, or any other kind of mad fantasy which is to
the shadow of its own soul which is to invent.
So what I want to get at here is that without having anything to say about specifically
what God is, maybe, might be or must be, we can notice some things that are very, that
are impossible to deny, actually.
And just to make things safe for everybody to play, atheists, everybody, right, we can
just basically say that it's possible that there are orders of intelligence in reality
above the human, and that our own order is an expression of these.
And so, presuming that there are many orders above our own, much like there are greater
and greater orders of structure in the universe, there may be either one so significantly beyond
anything we can imagine that it would functionally qualify as God, or there may be a penultimate
or ultimate order, at least locally.
And so we don't have to know what God means, we just sort of mean like an intelligence
of some form that orients the expressions in nature, and that those expressions are
of, not too hard to grant, since our own bodies follow this paradigm, there's no reason why
I should be conscious, my 35 trillion animal cells and 350 trillion bacterial cells, why
should I be a Darren, or a human, or even be able to use language or have a mind like
this or anything?
Yet I do, even if it's an accident, I do.
So could the same kind of accident happen in a way that connects discrete organisms and
perhaps even minds?
It seems rather likely.
You can throw away metaphysics and just say we don't even know what that means yet, but
it still seems rather likely.
And about this God, this God is like the manifold from which zero and one are not derivatives,
they are orientations of a participant mind, so that from one position the origin is always
in precedence, from another the discrete example and expression exists either as an expression
of that origin or in isolation.
The same word, I, so late, Ion, as a one, as an I, that stands to deny origin, and say
no, origin is secondary or even trivial.
What matters is this rod, this declaration, this word, this opinion, this idea.
Much like a hard male sexual organ standing like a tower, like those we continuously build
in our cities, over everything.
And notice there are no round balls near the bases of these towers, like our own flowers
have, the explicit presence of that circle, that origin.
So there's sort of two kinds, two species of the masculine.
One is the hero of the zero.
It's connected to the mothers and the grandmothers and the origin and the world and living beings,
children, intelligence, insight, discovery, humanity, ecology.
And the other is its shadow attempting to become a God, which really is a demon.
It is the sort of intuitive root of what we are pointing at when we say someone is a bastard.
We sort of mean you've forgotten your mothers, or if we say they are a, if we use one of
the slang terms to indicate them as a male sexual member, we mean something very similar.
You've forgotten your relationships with everything.
You fear the zero, you deny it, origin is invisible to you.
You can't remember your ancestors, you don't remember the living places, you become the
derivative and go around tyrannically declaring yourself, penetrating, dominating, raping.
And this is really the, unfortunately, the spirit of much of our culture and relationship
with language.
But what I want to get back to something more, more basic, which is that whatever God is
or might be, it has to be transgendered, right?
It has to be metagendered, otherwise it cannot produce zero in the one.
You don't get a feminine and masculine as absolutes.
They must be, how shall we put it, expressed from a manifold of broader dimensionality,
right?
Just like these words that I'm saying, yeah?
These are expressed from a manifold.
Just like all of the potentials of my thought and being.
And I am involved in manipulating that manifold down through the cone, right?
In order to produce the derivatives that here we play with.
It takes my mind to do it.
So whatever origin is, we can leave the word God out.
Origin itself is transgendered.
And what that means is that there is never, it's not possible for there to be a normal
expression of a gender or an abnormal expression of a gender.
It's just not possible.
Each expression of masculinity is unique and is dynamic.
Each expression of femininity is unique and is dynamic.
And it can shade off into masculinity as the feminine, and it can shade off into femininity
as the masculine, and this is all perfectly natural because the manifold doesn't collapse
into a static product.
Just like our minds, just like our being, just like our lives, right?
There's no single static state, I am a man, right?
That's a fiction of language.
That's something words told you.
And people and culture trained you to one specific or a very narrow set of specific
ideas about what that's supposed to mean.
That's impossible.
No matter what you might want to argue, that's impossible and cannot be true.
It's an illusion cast by a one, the kind of a one that's forgotten the zeros.
So whatever it means to be any gender is dynamic.
It's alive.
It's creative.
It's a mixture.
But it must give precedence to origin, right?
It must understand, very obviously, the one emerges from the zero.
But to be a man means you're emerging from that origin, that feminine origin, every moment.
Emerging, emerging.
In relation and memory and adoration with it constantly as yourself.
So how could it be wrong to be feminine as a man?
Impossible, absolutely impossible.
It's a fiction of language.
It's a shadow of language casts and says, identity shall look like this.
Because the language says so, really.
Nowhere anywhere can you write down what gender is supposed to be.
You can just, the only way to tell what gender is is to look at nature.
You can forget all of human language, all the human opinions, all the human ideas and
just look at what actually is, there it is, nature.
And what you're going to see is the most shockingly dynamic, constantly flowing, changing expressions
of a meta-gendering, manifold, collapsing and dancing with itself in all the different
possible ways, inventing new ways.
So there's certainly no norm of gender.
And very surprisingly, all the people who are apparently very concerned about these
norms don't seem to realize something fundamental, that the nature of reality is transgendered.
The nature of your mind is transgendered.
The nature of God is beyond gender.
It's trans-engendered.
It's trans-engendering.
Trans-engenderness.
There's no other way for that to be.
What's happened in human culture and history, unfortunately, is that rather with contact
with knowing anything about what these terms refer to, we've become very confused from
books and language and cultures.
And so we have our books and language and cultures, and we think either God is like
these books and language and cultures and arguments, or God isn't existing or something.
I don't know.
It's very bizarre.
What I want to get at is that's the same problem.
We fell down the cone into the derivatives.
So far into them, that language seemed to declare to us what things must be and what
it means to be normal, even though nothing anywhere in any part of reality ever was normal
for a minute, except in language.
So to know anything about gender at all means to become the exploration of its dynamism.
Not to become the declaration of norms from language or dead authorities or books.
And whatever those authorities or books might be, they have nothing to do with God.
Because there's no way you can get from the order of origins down into books and have
equivalency.
Those derivatives require humans to interpret them, at the very least.
And those humans can interpret them in wildly myriad ways.
And there's no possible way that any of those things can be declaratively true about the
nature of God, reality, what gender is supposed to be, shouldn't be, or any of that stuff.
Those are fictions that have come to stand in the place of intelligence, relation, understanding,
participation in origin with our origins as the living expressions and voices of origin.
It's absolutely crucial that we understand, especially men, it's far easier for women
to understand, for they start out in a relatively good position with origin.
Their bodies are origin.
But unfortunately, men and the sort of masculine, the false masculine shadow that enculturates
men and that dominates our cultures has no relationship with that.
It's completely tyrannically isolated in fictions of language.
And so it wants to declare genders, including the gender of God.
The reason that we think the gender of God is male and speak of the gender of God as
male is not necessarily because we're chauvinist.
It's again because the zero is invisible and its intelligence is silent.
It doesn't speak.
It would never write a book, ever.
So the aspect of the divine that is expressed into derivations is the masculine.
And it's the only aspect you can see.
It's the expression body, so it looks always masculine.
But trust me, it's the hero of the zero.
And always has been.
This is the great secret, or a great secret.
To encode it in language in such a way that it will liberate those who are trapped by
its opposite, yet we may play at such tasks as hopefully I have here.
What should be clear is this.
Potential is transgendered.
All expressions derive from potential.
Demand is beyond gender.
All modes of gendering, dynamic forms of gendering have a peculiar quality that requires something
like our own minds to produce our experience of.
We should not bow to the declarations, demands, or tyrannical projections of our very crude
relationships with the languages we've thus far formed.
Instead, we should just recognize that the nature of our nature is beyond gender.
And whatever this word God may refer to, it is certainly not one gender alone.
Nor could it be.
In exploring these matters, we can find new ways to think and speak, see, play and discover
both something more like our actual intelligence and something much more like our hearts, the
nature of our humanity.
And our relationship with language and the both exciting and dangerous derivatives of
representational thought and the cultures that it has thus far rather crudely generated,
perhaps we may even advance them together.
