Hello everybody. Welcome. I'm out on a post-Christmas jaunt in the cold with the coming rain.
I have many things that I've been learning and thinking about, trying to understand some of the unusual transformations
in the world and in human society and even in the minds and experience of my friends and relations over, say, the past five years.
When it seems that something fundamental is changing dramatically and there are many features of our experience which our lexicons lack concepts for.
It's unlikely for us to bring them into consideration if we don't know words for them.
Of course, our body senses and our feelings, there's a lexicon about those, but the senses in our mind, and that lexicon is different in each language,
but the senses in our minds and how changes in the perception of our reality and experience, our feelings, there are, of course, we have the emotion words and such,
but there are vast portions of our experience, and particularly our experience of awareness of different kinds, that there seem to be holes in our lexicons in these places.
And there are many reasons why this might be so, and different languages have different lexicons,
but it also turns out that different forms of specialization have different lexicons, so that, for example, many of the concepts in physics and mathematics are missing from our common ways of thinking about our experience
and identity and relationship situations and so on.
And there are vast, you know, differentia.
There is religious language, there is scientific language, there's mathematical language, there's the language of children, and the peculiar transformations of language that occur in humor.
But I've been thinking for quite some time now about a particular problem, and I was discussing this problem with my friend Forrest the other night,
and we were talking about how it's useful to know and have concepts that while they are not true, they provide insight that might be otherwise impossible to conceive of.
So one of the things we were talking about was that there are ideas in languages what we might call dimensions of meaning that are missing from other languages or haven't been conserved.
A simple example is the gendering of nouns in, say, French or Spanish.
And there are other concepts in indigenous languages such as when one is presenting some form of knowledge.
In the presentation there are ways of indicating how it was acquired.
Is this traditional knowledge? Did I hear it from a specific known person? Or did I hear it generally? Did I read it? Where did the knowledge come from?
So we were kind of marveling at this feature that there are dimensions of meaning that some languages can serve and other languages dispose of.
Some languages naturally express these dimensions of meaning, and other languages either dismiss them or don't traditionally include them.
So for example, the feature of where did I learn something?
English supports this. We can do this in English, but it's very uncommon for us to do so unless there's an important reason linked to what we are trying to communicate.
On my walk I recently noticed something surprising here where I am, which is that there are still living mantises in this late part of the season.
And I learned this from direct observation, and this is me showing that that feature that can be included in English statements and communications, but often isn't.
Now all of this is circling a topic that I've been wanting to speak about for some time now.
And it's the topic of how we evaluate not just statements, but concepts and ideas, declarations, other evaluations, and so on.
And it seems to me that there's kind of a strange problem that's common to us moderns with the idea of truth.
In Owen Barfield's Saving the Appearances, there's a chapter where he speaks about the transformation of the idea of theory.
And apparently, according to him, and this is me doing that thing again right, saying where did I get this from?
Originally in Greek, a hypothesis was a model that accomplished something called saving the appearances.
In other words, the appearances in the terms of physics are rescued within the model.
And when astronomy was young, of course, what do we mean by that?
Let us just say around the time of the Greeks, there were hypotheses for saving the appearances,
meaning something like explaining the changes over time in the locations of the planets in the sky.
Some of the hypotheses were teracentric, right?
Like earth-centric, the things that are orbiting the earth.
And over time, what happened was that the meaning of theory changed.
So originally, the Greek word theoria and the word hypothesis, they meant something like a model
in which the appearances, for example, of the movements of the planets in the sky are explained.
And there were many complex theories about this.
But what was interesting about Barfield's presentation is that there's a difference between a theory,
the truth of falsity of which is irrelevant, and a theory which claims to be fact.
And apparently, around the time of Galileo, the church said to Galileo,
you can teach that your theory saves the appearances, but you cannot teach that it is true.
And so what was at issue here was not necessarily whether a hypothesis satisfactorily saved the appearances,
but whether a hypothesis that appeared to save all the appearances was a fact.
And this marked a radical transformation, not just in the idea of theory, but in the idea of truth.
At this point in time, and certainly there were precursors to this, these are just the stories that we have easy access to,
what was dangerous was the claim that a hypothesis that saved enough of the appearances,
or all of them that we could determine, was the same thing as truth.
You know, was true.
And at this point, this is sort of the beginning of the scientific revolution where we begin to employ hypotheses to discover what is indeed the case.
And prior to this time, hypotheses were useful in that they gave us insight about phenomena
without those insights needing to be seen as true or false.
So one could entertain seven different hypotheses, many of which conflicted with each other,
and obtained different modes of utility from this behavior.
Strangely, Barfield speaks at length about a topic or a referent that he calls our collective representations.
And these are a very complex, lexical, and semantic and conceptual manifold, yes.
And it turns out that much of the testing that we do for truth is really just the validation that a statement or concept or model
is in fact found in our collective representations.
This is a circular form of logic.
Having defined the representational catalog, we then simply go looking for, does this match?
And if it does, it is validated.
And if it doesn't, well, we may say, oh, this is just some form of insanity.
So you can see that there's a problem with truth, and there are something that resembles domains of truthfulness.
If we make concentric circles and the inner one is primarily linguistic, is that a truck?
Well, the answer to this question is determined by the catalog of collective representations that we share.
If we don't share that catalog, the truth of this is a truck is not clear, at least, and may actually be seen as untrue,
simply because the statement doesn't exist.
The concepts and the structure of the statement in the catalog of collective representations is missing.
For a person who has never seen a truck, the idea that this is a automobile is not true,
because they don't have the concept of machine, even, in some cases.
So what turns out to happen is that the catalogs of collective representations are exchanged.
There are transmissions between them over time so that a people who have machines,
this meeting of people who don't have machines, introduce them to the concept,
and the concept is in some way inherited or received into the collective representations of, say, for example,
of people who live in the jungle in the Amazon.
And there are many stories of the strange problems that happen when non-technological peoples are introduced to technology.
I'm trying to remember an author who speaks very eloquently about this, Edmund Carpenter.
He tells stories of the introduction of photographic technologies to an indigenous people,
and how they reacted so confusedly and with great fear and trepidation to being shown photographs of themselves.
There is a story he tells of a people who had an extremely arduous initiation ceremony for their males,
and no females were ever allowed into the ceremony, which involved scarification or deals.
But their photographer was female, and they eventually convinced the people to allow the ceremony to be filmed with the female.
And apparently thereafter, the men stopped having the initiation ceremonies and instead watched the film of them.
This is a portentous transformation of consciousness, tradition, and tests for what is true or valuable or real.
Now the reason that I'm wandering around in this area is that I've long been aware,
after having an initial experience in which I was shown many models of features of human experience,
language, cognition, mathematics that were not from a human perspective.
And the models were not presented to me to show me what was correct or what the truth was.
The models were presented in a way that would allow me to play with them to discover new things,
new features, and new ways of viewing or understanding the things in our catalogs of collective representations.
So for me these models were posed as toys rather than facts,
but many of the toys were so profoundly insightful and astonishing in what they could capture
that they exceeded anything I'd ever been exposed to in my ordinary human life.
So I discovered that there's a class of ways of modeling and thinking
that while whether or not that we can dismiss the truth value of because they're so useful and astonishing,
that they may lead to new forms of truth merely by entertaining them.
And I guess what I'm trying to say here is there's a paradox in the domain of truth.
And many intelligent and wise people have noticed this and are aware of it,
but it's very difficult for them to communicate about this meaningfully with moderns who have not been thoroughly exposed to such models.
So the other day I was in a conversation some time ago now, five or six weeks ago,
in which someone in the conversation began to speak in terms of astrology,
noting that in this time some planet was retrograde and some other planet was, you know, in a trine and so on.
And at first in my thinking I was sort of dismissive,
not necessarily because I had determined whether astrology is true or not,
but rather because suddenly I was gripped with an insight.
And the insight was that a person who was exposed and had absorbed the principles of astrology, the models,
would be capable of thinking in ways that a person who wasn't thus exposed would be very unlikely to think.
For example, one of the most important of these is that there might be character to time.
Time isn't always just the same thing, the clock ticking along, the hours and days passing.
And this is a fundamentally important concept because the mechanization of time has deprived us of the inclination to think that time has character.
Each second can be thought of as just another second, each minute, just another minute.
And yet none of our experience resembles this.
Or rather, the portion of our experience that resembles this is so limited that it's actually disabling to think in this way.
I have a couple of friends who are very capable mathematicians,
and my friendship with them, because I am not a capable mathematician, has introduced me to concepts like manifolds in completeness,
grassmanians, Hamiltonians, and many other ideas that seem fundamentally important to fold into our lexicons,
but tend to remain in the specialized fields from which they emerge, mathematics, or physics, and so on.
And I find this deeply troubling because even relativity, which is now somewhat, you know, what, how old is relativity?
Perhaps 80, 90 years old, there are concepts in relativity that if transferred into our collective representations,
would radically alter what we think about and how we understand identity of things we are capable of distinguishing,
and also unity, how the things combine to form situations.
It seems to me we are still thinking in terms that are effectively Euclidean, or even pre-Euclidean.
When we think about identity itself, what things are, what they do, what they don't do, and so on,
consider the idea of a car for a moment.
We think of it as a vehicle, and when we are using the vehicle,
surely it's true that we transport ourselves through the ages of the vehicle.
But what is a car when it is not moving?
Is it truly a vehicle when it's just sitting there with no one in it, or does it become a vehicle when a driver enters?
And this brings up another feature of the problem that I want to orbit here, which is sometimes the things we call the same thing
are actually so different that we can imagine we would be much more intelligent if we had different words for these differences, right?
But in our languages, identity is sticky, so the fact that we defined a car as a vehicle
disinclines us to think of it as something different when it isn't being a vehicle.
But surely the identity which seems to be based on function is actually only partly based on function.
It's based on the aspect of function that we highlighted.
An indigenous person being introduced to the idea of cars might see them as extremely dangerous for all kinds of different reasons.
And what cars do and are in the world has many features that are not captured by the idea of a vehicle.
Walking around the city streets, seeing the houses surrounded by cars.
I remember one day it suddenly occurred to me that those things resemble viruses connected to the membrane of a cell, right?
If the city block is the cell and the houses are the membrane, the viruses are at the surface of the membrane.
Of course, inside the house there is life and in the backyard there may be vegetation and animals and plants and so on.
But it's very disturbing to see and think about the roads as a damaging result of having built cars.
And think about the relationship between the humans and the cars and all of the resources that the humans must dedicate to the cars
and all the resources that are abstracted from the living environment to support these machines and so on.
It turns out that they're vastly more expensive than anything the idea of their monetary expense could possibly communicate to us.
Even though the monetary expense is also real to us moderns.
So in a way I'm asking an important question, when is a car not a car?
Now, this brings to mind for me the topological model of identity where if we use some word, for example the word dream,
we can immediately see that there are many different kinds of dreams and some of them are so different from what we ordinarily will think when we hear this word,
that the person experiencing them after the vision or the dream fades might reasonably think that was not a regular dream.
And here again we see the idea of normalization in language.
All things called this thing are the same thing always, but it's blatantly obvious they are not.
For a human or animal being struck by a car, a car is no longer a vehicle. See the problem?
And certainly with any of the class words we use, dream, food, friend, parent,
we're inclined to apply the senses of the word that are in the definition in the dictionary almost automatically.
Simply because they match up with the collective representations we've been trained to employ.
But I know that my mind, while one might say it is always a mind, there are certainly throughout the day many, many transformations.
And it depends on what my mind actually is since it is a transforming thing, meaning it transforms in various situations or over time.
It becomes really important to realize that many of the moments of consciousness that I experience are not particularly mind-like.
And in different circumstances my mind may approach something resembling lucidity and in others almost the opposite of lucidity is there.
So when we think about truth, the problem that, again, back to the concentric circle model,
in one circle truth means that the statement is coherent.
But its coherence is often dependent on it matching it up with the collective representations with which we are familiar.
But there's another form of truth that we can see in the aspect of our mind that is determining whether something is true or false.
This is a bigger circle than statements which are true, right?
If one circle is statements which are true there's a circle above that or beyond it in which the evaluative faculties that determine the truth or falsity of an idea are active.
And those faculties form a kind of meta-truth.
Now this I find fascinating.
Now this relates very strongly with Owen Barfield's elucidations.
Because us moderns are inclined to suppose that if a statement is not true it should be disposed of.
And this may be more prevalent in men than it is in women.
Possibly due to many different factors, right?
Scripting and culture, the traditional roles of males and females.
But I think it may also have a direct relationship with differences in brain structure.
Now once again, if we say males and females in the modern context, at least in the United States at this moment and perhaps in Canada,
we may meet with a complex phenomena that is emergent in modern culture which in a way is the resistance to the collective representations surrounding the idea of male and female.
And it's easy to understand that a biological male may have feelings, desires, experiences, or even communications that according to the collective representations are not masculine.
Throughout my life I've always been someone who cries when I'm deeply moved, sometimes in my experience of relation with other humans and the beauty or the painfulness of those relations.
And if I cry with other men, men born in the 50s and before, and maybe even in the 60s, will often react with something resembling terror.
And this is because in the collective representations of those times crying was considered a thing associated with babies or females.
So when we see these emergent models of gender that are non-binary, there's a very complex transformation of idea and collective representations that are traditional.
And the transformation, one of the things it is doing is introducing a continuum to a situation that was previously on or off, so to speak, right, one or zero, penis or vagina.
And so this emergent phenomenon in Western culture is very peculiar, and I think it's both useful and dangerous in various ways.
There is the risk of doing the same thing backwards, right, of assertion that there is no interval, there is no difference between men and women.
And many intelligent people are very concerned about this because in nature we find both situations.
We find situations which seem mechanically binary, there are males and there are females.
And then we see situations which are hermaphroditic, there are organisms which seem to have both male and female reproductive systems.
And then there are anomalies, things that don't fit in the current model.
For example, I think it's called parthenogenesis or pathogenesis where the females of certain species including praying mantises under some conditions self-impregnate, right, they simply produce young.
There's a thing called, there's a certain very small snake which I think is blind, a Brahmini snake, if I remember correctly.
And this is an organism in which it does not seem there are males.
So many people are concerned in different ways around this transformation of our collective representations surrounding gender.
And the conflict is meaningful, but there are also very dangerous features of both the traditional view and the views which are emerging in our culture.
There are cultures and societies at this time.
And part of the danger is the insistence on declaration.
And another part of the danger is insistence on non-declaration.
Whenever we move toward explicit models, we're in danger of losing the capacity for sensitivity and insight and becoming ideologues.
So these are things that concern me.
Now, there is also a mode of truth which supervenes over concepts.
The truth of our organismal nature or perhaps our actual nature beyond the idea of organism.
But before I go too far in this direction, I want to circle back to the idea that our language and our traditional habits of using language are extremely deceptive.
Surely a car is not the same thing when it is just sitting there, being expensive in five different ways or fifty different ways.
Environmentally expensive, financially expensive, attentionally expensive.
We have to pay for insurance and gasoline and maintenance and all of these things.
So you can see that in a way the car is hitchhiking on living systems in a way that resembles in some facets, if we so desire, a virus, a virus of enormous size.
So do we think of the cars as viruses or vehicles?
Do we think of them as a disease or a convenience?
What are they actually?
Outside the collective representations, what are they doing?
What are we doing with them?
And in this direction we find the possibility of escaping linguistic truth to reform it.
So that the mind that I have when I'm dot beep blop trying to be distracted or am aboard or my mind is not really alive is very different from the kind of mind that I'm experiencing at the moment.
And I'm actually struggling moment to moment with the transition between something much more ordinary and mundane and something that begins to become insightful or profound
or where I am actually learning in process.
It's as if I'm trying to switch gears and I'm struggling because I'm not warmed up in a sense.
So forgive me if my talk meanders a bit around these things.
Now certainly we understand that things which are called the same thing in language are not the same thing in experience.
The fact that someone calls something food does not mean we want to eat it.
Some foods we prefer and enjoy, other foods we struggle with, others will make us sick, some can kill us.
So are all those things really the same thing, the way that the categories seem to declare and ask us to or incline us to believe.
And all of the features of our lives are like this.
Education is a continuum. It's a topology.
There are mountains where the profundity and success of the educational process is like explosive.
And there are other situations where the drudgery is actually making us dumber as we follow along recapitulating the examples we've been told to master and express by teachers.
I struggled with this a lot in school and many of us have because I could always see far beyond what was being taught to me.
That's not true. I could often see far beyond what was being taught to me to a degree where what was being taught seemed either trivial, nonsensical or simply wrong.
And I think this is in part because for me I was able to preserve an aspect of awareness that was at odds with the representations I was being scripted with.
And that beyond direction represents another form of truth, right?
The truth outside our collective representations and also maybe truth as a direction rather than as a derivative.
If we want to get smarter and see better in our common experience and lives and thought, we're going to have to find a doorway or a few doorways that lead us outside of the representations and the way they incline us to think and to even experience the world.
If certainly an Indigenous person would have a catastrophically different experience of a car, never having seen a machine, then a Western person who's familiar with them would be likely to have.
Now the Indigenous person could probably adopt over time something that resembles the modern's idea, but the reverse is much more difficult, right?
For the modern to see the car with awe and terror and great concern, perhaps even, you know, worry, this is more difficult because we tend to find a chord with over time, right?
We've been steeped in the broth of our collective representations so thoroughly that it's very challenging for most of us, most of the time, to depart from that and see it from beyond the collective representations.
Certainly if we are ecologically concerned at all, if we value the anciently conserved ecologies, the complex animals, their symbiotic, life-giving behavior, then we then become capable of having ideas about cars and machines
that are not like those common in our everyday experience, discussion, the news, television and so on, where the truthfulness and the usefulness of these representations is taken blindly for granted.
I've spoken in many videos of the importance of maintaining a topological understanding of identity and there are other features, other models than topology that are also quite useful.
But when I say this, what I mean is our common linguistic behavior inclines us to think that all cars are always cars, right?
This is the Aristotelian version of identity. No car is not a car and no car is both a car and not a car.
And yet it is blatantly obvious that this form of logic, while useful in a very limited scope or context, is actually false to the facts of our experience.
And this is something that Alfred Korzybski was at pains to try to get humanity as a whole to understand when he wrote his very dense and somewhat impenetrable book, Science and Sanity.
He was nullifying the Aristotelian law of identity, which is a circular kind of logic that simply says, we call it a bird, therefore it is a bird.
In Korzybski's formulation, what we call it may or may not be useful, but whatever it might actually be cannot be what we call it.
And when you begin to entertain this idea in a serious way, you realize, or it is common to realize, that our language games are not merely misleading.
They're mostly wrong anywhere outside of the game of validation by comparison to the lexicon of collective representations.
Now when I speak of a topological model, I mean something like the experience of food.
What is this substance? Wow. What could this be? Where does it come from?
I wonder if I'm seeing a technological substance or a natural substance.
It seems that it must be a technological substance. I've never seen anything like this. It is like, hmm.
I suppose that it's like microbeads. Hmm.
I'm going to pause for a moment and explore this because I really want to see. It's a golden, yeah, it must be microbeads.
But let's have a peek with the magnifying glass. Give me a moment and I shall return.
Sometimes there's a moment of serendipity when we're thinking about someone or something.
The other day I was on a call with one friend and I mentioned another friend and that person called right at that moment.
And now I have seen something that I don't recall ever seeing something like it before on the ground and I wanted to know what it is, right?
But it's very important when we first encounter something unfamiliar to us to notice the set of transformations that happens in our minds
as we attempt to determine things like, is this valuable? Is this dangerous? Is this an opportunity? Is it a threat?
Is it an ordinary substance? Is it a non-ordinary thing? We're trying to determine what is going on.
And the process involves comparison to previously experienced things.
And there are sort of biological features of this process, but there are also cognitive features of this process.
As an animal, we may experience smells or feelings or fear, particularly when exposed to something that we can't find a previous experience of.
I remember some time ago a friend had been playing guitar at my house and when he went home he left his guitar there so I brought it back to his house.
And because I have permission to enter his house at Will, I went through his backyard, brought the guitar into his garage
and was going to put it in his house to hang it on, you know, the little hanger on the wall that it goes on.
But as I entered his house, or his garage actually, he was emerging into his garage from his home and he was not expecting a human to be there.
And I watched as he went through a series of transformations from the initial shock of discovering something unexpected to the preparation for violence,
to recognition that this wasn't a threat, to recognition, ah, this is my friend, Darren.
And this is the process that we are engaged in, or rather there's a model of this process that's very useful, which is the collapsing of a manifold to a derivative.
We go, and even now I am doing this when I am attempting to speak coherently, we go from everything or nothing to something and then we try to determine the class, right?
Thing, being, process, so on, according to the structure of our languages and collective representations.
Now, what's really interesting about this is that I'm demonstrating this by simply speaking about it, right?
In order to form coherent sentences, I must do something similar.
And when I found the strange substance on the ground, which I now believe to be little piles of microbeads,
at first I had no idea what that was.
And my first feeling was, this resembles pollen because it was golden and sparkly.
And I thought, this is something perhaps a tree has produced.
But on closer observation, it was very clear that trees do not produce substances like this.
These are produced by chemistry. This is, this is an artificial substance.
The topological model of identity is incredibly important.
So important that really we should teach it to children as we are teaching them language,
so that they don't become hypnotized by the declarative, you know, explicit identities that language proposes.
For me, the first time that I realized a car is not a car,
or at least it is not a car when it is not being a vehicle.
That was a crucial insight about the nature of identity that led me beyond the human collective representations
and the traps in language and knowledge toward something resembling insight.
It's nearly impossible for us to be intelligent if we take the superficial structure of language and identity as factual or true.
It's clear that most of these structures are structures of convenience, not truth, right?
If we really want to understand what a car is, where will we begin from?
If we simply think, oh, it's an artificial object, yes, yes, but why are there artificial objects?
Why are there incredibly sophisticated machines? Why do humans, a biological organism, produce these?
Why do we make languages and use them in such a way that rather than becoming more intelligent each time we use them,
we become less so and less capable of the sensitivities, forms of awareness and consciousness
that lead us out of the traps of representational cognition into the field of the possibilities of insight
and forms of truth that radically exceed the rather trivial by comparison scope of our common derivations.
Not just our derivations, but the traditional or habitual ways of thinking and using these concepts to form structures in consciousness.
The idea of enlightenment, which means like brightness in the mind, is in part the idea of having thrown off this superficial hypnosis of language model concept and identity.
Thankfully, it never stopped anyone from being capable of utilizing the representations in the ways that ordinary people might be inclined to do in what we think of as ordinary situations.
But are any situations actually ordinary? The fundamental non-ordinariness of existence itself is easily lost in our habitual thinking of such things, right?
And so in a way, the idea of enlightenment, well, again, we're in the same trap, right?
I'm using language to describe things that language can at best poorly point toward and cannot actually convey.
If it were possible to convey enlightenment through language, the process might look something like what Korzybski was hoping to teach the humans.
Sorry, a car was driving recklessly enough that I was concerned it might hit me, and though I'm on the sidewalk.
Korzybski was hoping to relieve us of the strange burden of false knowledge that is conferred upon us by participation in the collective representations in the languages, ideas, concepts, and models that are common to our place and time and people.
So in my attempt to convey some of these matters, I'm trying to do what I'm talking about, right? I'm trying to walk beyond the field of the familiar, the known, the correct toward something that is the possibility of insight.
One of the things that I wanted to mention was just that there are ideas that are more important than the kind of truth we find in the collective representations.
And some of these ideas, whether or not they are true, are more useful to us in obtaining insight or understanding or in learning than the mode of truth that we're used to using to evaluate propositions or speculations or statements.
It seems that the minds of men over history have been inclined toward a declarative form of truth that is relatively explicit.
Whereas comparatively in this model, the minds of females are resistant to the sudden explicit imposition of meaning, identity, or value.
The minds of females seem more inclined to orbit rather than to penetrate or cut and to suggest and invite and use indirection rather than, again, the sort of that is a this, right, declaration.
There are also features of traditional indigenous knowledge that seem to conserve an awareness of all of many of the problems we've discussed here.
So that rather than declare identity, they might refer to qualities or invite consideration in a way that is largely alien to the Western mind.
I'm trying to think of some good examples, but even in the sort of bizarre colonial representations of American Indians in film, we often see this property, we see some representation of this property in language and thought.
So that the indigenous languages may employ analogy or metaphor where we would be inclined simply to make a declaration.
Perhaps the trope as the crow flies to distinguish the difference between the distance between two points and the path that humans can take between two points.
What sort of happens or what is common in our language is we throw away the ladder and simply declare the distance to be as if we were measuring it from above in a straight line.
Very, very few paths are straight.
In actuality, that straight line is an idealization and it's an idealization that occurs on the surface of a sphere if we're walking on Earth.
And so many of these things are crucially important to bear in mind because there's this gravity to the declarative, to the explicit, to the pure derivation over an interval.
And over time these become entrenched so that we fail to think of distance not in the term of as the crow flies.
And even the crow may not make what we call a B line from one point to another.
So you can see that there's this similar problem in our concepts where we collapse the complexities and many of the features of identity that are crucial to conserve into a relatively clinical derivation.
Why is this dangerous?
It literally changes how we experience the world and our experience, relationships and situations.
By acting as a filter and all that doesn't pass the filter is considered not true and that which is not true is immediately dismissed in some situations.
I have great respect for peoples who have conserved a healthy degree of concern about all of these different matters.
It is said that in Blackfoot, this was told to me by my friend Ryan, if someone asks you, do you know the story of, for example, Scarface?
It is traditional to respond with no and it's considered rude and perhaps arrogant to say yes.
Now think carefully about this traditional or this tradition for a moment with me.
If we have heard a story from someone and let us say it's a traditional story, each retelling of the story is occurring in a new context.
My mind is different from the first time I heard it.
If someone says, have you read a book?
What they usually mean is, did you read the book from beginning to end?
And I may say, for example, yes, I have read this book.
But does that mean that I know the book?
No.
And in fact, it turns out that with books that are really valuable and produce insight, a re-reading of the book is likely to grant me new kinds of insight and understanding that the previous reading didn't grant.
So it is too with the telling of stories.
Each person may know unique features, particularly of a traditional story in an indigenous culture that were not either presented in another telling or were presented slightly differently.
And so in truth, we don't know the story.
And to declare that we do is kind of to end not just the conversation, but the possibility of learning.
And this is why it is frowned upon in part.
This is in part why it's frowned upon to simply declare, yes, I know it.
So these peoples have maintained the awareness of the danger of knowledge, believing that we know something, that cursory knowledge is complete knowledge, that linguistic knowledge is complete knowledge, when this literally cannot be true, though it can be made true in a kind of tragic way in our behavior.
Before I wrap up, I just want to remember that there are many different modes of truth, and some of them may produce statements or propositions that are explicitly not factual.
But this does not mean they are not true.
It depends on the form of truth we're chasing and our purposes in chasing it.
Consider the bizarre toy that certainly was not first discovered by Bertrand Russell, but was popularized by him, the Rossellian paradox.
This statement is false.
It turns out that there are a number of features of this statement which are profoundly edifying if we will consider them deeply, rather than just deciding, oh, it's a paradox, next.
So the first feature is that the statement has no, not the first, but the first I'll look at here, is that the statement has no content, and since it has no content, it can neither be true nor false.
A statement without content cannot have the quality, it cannot be properly tested for truth or falsity, even in the layer of the collective representations in the language.
So the first part of understanding the paradox is to notice the statement has no meaning.
But the second part of the paradox is to notice that statements don't determine their own truth or falsity, minds do that.
And so we might introduce a property of statements that goes something like this.
No statement shall, by self-reference or other means, promote itself to the order of minds that interpret statements.
And having seen these two things, we are not yet, we've not exhausted the possibilities of learning in this toy statement, but we have come to some insight about the nature of statements and language in general.
And that insight is profoundly useful, because in our language, in our traditions, and in our common communications behavior, there's a problem where humans confuse the facticity of a statement, right, because a statement has been made in language.
I've just made one.
We confuse that facticity with our possible evaluations of the content of statements.
And this is an anachronism, right, a historical remnant of the sort of mythological features of language where language itself is magical and determines reality rather than describes it.
Or even creates reality, right?
So let us remember that the idea of truth is a bit like a concentric circle.
If we want to put the truth of statements in the center, we have a small circle there, then we have the circle around that, with which we will point at minds that interpret statements.
And then there is a circle around that, which is statements the truth or falsity of which are not the most important feature of.
The important feature is, can we gain new perspective insight?
Can we find in these kinds of models or ideas medicine for the terrifying collapse of consciousness and intelligence that our modern situation and use of language so easily and constantly kind of hypnotically inclines us toward.
And then beyond that, there is the truth of being, the truth of being a human or the truth of being a being at all, or the origin of beings, the origin of minds, right?
This is a direction rather than a place we can get to.
And this is I think why in enlightenment, in ideas about enlightenment or discussions about it, it's essentially an infinite direction.
Yes, one can say, for example, and very few enlightened people would, I have achieved enlightenment, or another person might say about us that they have validated our enlightenment, say a Zen Roshi or something like this.
But even then, the person whose enlightenment has been thus validated will still not make this declaration, I am enlightened for very complex reasons that have to do with the non truth or falseness of the nature of awareness itself.
Thank you for joining me.
I very much appreciate those of you who listen.
And I hope that if you've enjoyed my videos, you may share them with others or consider supporting them on my Patreon page, which there are links to on my YouTube page.
I look forward to learning again together very soon and wish you wise ways, joy, and the great gift of insight.
Bye-bye for now.
