Thank you for joining me. Today is Sunday, December 29th. It's 2 10 a.m. Pretty good
time to record here. And I'm going to be talking about some extremely provocative
subjects that relate with... It's hard to say what they don't relate with, actually.
They are... They're topics that are fundamental to the structure of our
minds and intelligence. And so everything that those that our minds and our
intelligence touch, we touch sort of by representing in some way, at least if
we're conscious of it. So because we represent in this way all of the things
that our minds touch, language and art, science and religion, they are
instructed by our intentions and the rhythms of our activity and
relationships, our eating, our breathing, our running, our walking, they're
instructed by our humanity. And so we actually we find our own mark in
everything we are conscious of because we are conscious of it through
representations. And this recording is such a representation and it's a
waving sound that's happening in a gap. And the gap would be empty. You can see
that just there I let some of it be empty that I'm normally filling with a
kind of a wavy motion. When we do that, we communicate. Of course, all of nature
is this communication and also is this intelligence. There is one thing that can
shall we say, travel at multiple of multiple multiples of light or a speed
of velocity and that would be intelligence. It does. It's traveling all
throughout the universe. We think the fastest thing is light. But our minds are
what we understood that with. And they are they participate directly in that. And
the way that all this happens has been very mysterious. It will probably remain
mysterious because like water, it will exceed the toys we acquire to play with
with. Now, if we remember that they are toys, if we play intelligently, our toys
start to change in our hands while we're playing with them. And then we can
participate in the intelligence of the universe. Instead of being spectators at
the results of the solidifying toys that became most popular or most
urgent or most well known, which usually aren't very intelligent toys are very
competitive models, and they're very aggressive. And although some of them are
absolutely necessary, they should never be as dominant as they are. These include
things like language and political ideas and religions and arguments against
religion and war, especially hatred, ignorance that becomes entrenched as a
model of the universe or or or some rule of relation is the lethal enemy of
life on earth, our intelligence mankind, and all of our relationships and
families and dreams. I want to talk briefly about an ancient story. It's one
you might be somewhat familiar with. It's often discussed in the Bible. I'm going
to use that model since it's probably familiar to most of my listeners and
participants. And by the way, when when you touched minds with me this way, we
are participating together. Actually, you are with me right now. Across time, the
reason that can happen is that connection that happens when your mind
starts to sort of warble with whatever I'm producing. It travels backward in time
in a number of ways. We're not easily prepared to discuss. So in a very
unusual way, each one of you and all of those people who may watch this later are
helping me learn in ways that are very unusual right in this moment. And I'm
doing it with you, even though you may watch this later and I myself may watch
this later and learn. That's part of the nature of intelligence that we don't
ordinarily discuss. But I will today. The story I'm going to use is one of the
fundamental riddles of our human cultural and linguistic history. It's the
tree incident from the Bible. In some ways, it might be one of the sources of
riddles themselves for many cultures or peoples. But whether or not that's true,
that's that's pretty hyperbolic. It's certainly one of the most important
riddles that we have to play with. And there are some shocking things we can
learn from examining it carefully, especially if we separate it from our
common criticisms, expectations, ideas, religions and understandings. Let's just
take a look at the brief outline. There are the prototypes of humans, Adam and
Eve. And actually Eve is supposedly made from Adam's rib while he's sleeping. In
case that sounds chauvinistic or crazy, which it certainly did to me, allow me to
remind you that even though Adam isn't the son, and Eve isn't the earth, I can
imagine a model whereby the son is in this part of the story representative of
Adam, and the earth is in the unformed earth is representative of Eve. And she
is actually like Saturn's rings, an orbital of gas and rock around the sun,
like a ring, one of his ribs actually. And while he was sleeping, because he
maybe hadn't ignited yet, that ring became a planet. And then it might even be
that that helped him to catch on fire. I'm not a scientist, but we don't need to
be scientists because we can play very intelligently with the toys that the
universe gives us in the strange toy box that ran with gravity and light and
animals and forests still for a few for a few more days, and oceans and things in
each other dreaming. Yeah, we can play with these very imaginatively. And we
want to, we were made for that. So anyway, there's a way that a woman could
be produced from a kind of a man's rib if we think of the son as a man. The earth
is a beautiful one. And that she shines gloriously in his light and he in turn
is magnified unthinkably by her presence. And they are madly in love and really
co-equal in all things, even though she doesn't shout light like the sun does,
and he doesn't reflect light so exquisitely and in a conversation like her
surface. And all because of their wonderful children, us who are listening to
the story made in light told in light on the earth. Could it be magic? How could
it not be? It must be more than magic, more than science, more than all the
stories and it is back to the story. There's some kind of a divine
intelligence afoot and Adam and Eve are in a kind of a garden of some sort. And
lots of things are happening. But they're told to stay away from a peculiar
tree which is said to grow in the midst of the garden in the midst. And they're
told that this tree is death, not to eat of it. So before I continue, I want to say
a couple of things. When you make a little ball like a marble in glass, some
people make art marbles and they take glass, they put it in a kiln, it's on the
end of a stick that has part of a cup, it's half of a cup. And there's a lump of
glass in there and they get it really hot in the kiln on the end of a rod and
they take out, I'm sorry actually, they put the glass in the end of a rod, they
stick it into a kiln, big lot of glass, and they take it out and they shape it in
this wooden cup really fast into a ball, a sphere. And then really quickly they
have to separate the sphere from the lump of glass and it makes a little tail
there, a little umbilicus, like my own belly button in a way except it's an
it's always an outy on a sphere, it just works that way. And they have to hide
that tail to make the marble perfect and if you imagine the earth as a planet or
even a mine and you imagine it was just separated from everything, you might
imagine that it had a kind of a tail left over from where it was divided from
everything else. And that in fact some force or even intelligence was involved
in this division and that this force or intelligence could be very advanced and
even possibly a little bit arrogant because it was such a great divider of
things. That this force or intelligence, we might even think of it as an angel
could be dangerous to the children who were made of dust and matter, you know,
sort of stardust animated by spirit or lightning and then, yeah, like you and
me. And we all know that when children meet other children, they show each other
their toys, right, which I'm kind of doing right now with you. I'm showing you
some of my favorite toys in my favorite toy box, which is at once a universal
one and a very personal one at once celestial and in every moment as you'll
see. They show each other their toys. And
when I was little, my grandmother told me not to play with my belly button,
then I would get sick. So I immediately ran off and played with my belly button.
They got sick. I didn't know why. It's my umbilicus. It's the little tail from
whence I came. It's the last place where I was connected to my mother. And we
don't tend to think about that, but it's a kind of an antenna, right? It's a very
powerful charged thing. And to bend your attention back on your source, to bend
your attention back over upon your sources like that, to to recurse, to be
reflexive. These are words that mean this is a ways in a way to die to unity and
make a space like the pupil in my eye that lets light in or not is to see is to
know is to die to a part of the unity and to see from to see the self seeing in
some way to know that one knows. That's homo sapiens sapiens. We know that we
know a little bit of a confusing name there because we sort of stutter on the
word sapiens. So here's the point. In the garden, there was a tree and that they
weren't supposed to eat it. And it was in the midst. But the weird thing about this
word midst is in Hebrew, which lots of Jews don't even know this, is that it
actually relates to an unused Hebrew root called tabek. I think it's Tate
Vav, Kate, if I'm not mistaken, I may be mistaken. I might have to correct that
later. I'm not a Jewish scholar, but this means to cut off and to push to
divide apart this word midst. It doesn't mean like one of the trees. It means the
place where things were divided from the sky and there's still like something
there left over standing that could really be intense to get anywhere near
that. And so they're so curious about that. They want to get near that just like
you and I want to get near sudden insight and amazing ability to know and
learn, which is our nature again. If we're if we have good purposes, if our
purposes are good, this urge will not go astray or we'll go less astray. At the
tree was this force, the embodiment of this force, the angel, the angel of
division, possibly the first angel. One of the fingertips of this intelligence
that is a universal kind of intelligence, it is everywhere in everything as
everything, but it has embodiments of a sort of a strange sort I can't explain
and I don't think we have to be religious or scientific or even we don't
even have to tell fables we can just make toys and models, metaphors, which is
what I'm doing here. So in this tree, there was an angel. Yeah, the tree was a
very strange tree because it was the tree of the structure of the garden was in
the midst of the garden. So it was the tree of the garden's own structure. And
the garden was unified sort of like our right hemisphere, which means it was
swarms of beings and flows with no specific identity, but all very intimate
and knowledgeable, but no words, no distinction, no separation, no concepts.
Because to have concepts, you have to break away and go up, then look down.
And when you do that, that is surveillance. Literally, you know that stuff
everyone's scared of these days, surveillance? That's how we get
intelligence. We surveil ourselves and we surveil the forces of the universe to
get science, and we surveil the forces of communion to get religion, and we
surveil the forces of nature to get an understanding of life and the forces of
distinction itself to get an understanding of mathematics. We surveil from
the standpoint of fictional other beings that might exist but don't perfect
beings who could see everything. Where do we get this habit? Back at the tree
where we got in trouble. Here's how it happened. God said, don't go to the tree.
There's a problem there. It's dangerous. You guys are kids. There's another kind of
child over there. There's a spirit lightning fire knowledge child, and
it's very powerful, and it lives in the tree. Whereas the tree is the
structure of the garden itself. It is the way that the divisions in the garden
are intelligent. It is the intelligent dividing thing. It is separation without
which you can't have language, knowledge, eyeballs, religion, words, anything. Nothing.
You just get a speck. No separation, no time, no persons, no place, no ideas, no
math, no intervals. What if all of the separation is extremely intelligent? What
if gaps themselves are intelligence? So the children, of course, Eve was fascinated
by this idea or whatever she thought or encountered. They probably both were, and
actually I'm kind of doubting it was Eve, but it doesn't really matter. It would
make sense if she was. She went to where the midst was the belly button of not
only the earth, but like the universe, right? The belly button of mind, the belly
button of the first thought, the belly button of the moment between, you know, she
was going to become a mother. She was going to get hit by lightning and become
the mother of all thinking. Because without that moment at the tree, there's no
knowledge, there's no language, there's no distinction, separation. There's just
flowing, dream way, no identity, switching, flowing, dreaming, flying, swirling,
kinds of stuff like swarms. And they're intelligent, but it's a different form
of intelligence. It's a playful, non-identified kind that learns more
than it freezes things and preserves them, right? It just flows in learning, like
fire, like lightning. This creature in the tree is the other kind, the kind that
can freeze things and make arguments from positions of perfect ideals. Yeah, that's
the snake that lives in the tree. Eve wandered over. She saw the snake in the
tree. It penetrated her sexually in the mind, in the seeing place of the heart.
But the apple was good for seeing. It penetrated her. And when it did, she learned
the art of distinction. Now, of course, they had a conversation, which I'm going to
go through, so I want to keep us a little bit short. They had a conversation which
was very interesting. But essentially, it put death in her and it's an intelligent
form of lightning death that just makes separations after separations. Now, if it's
made intelligently, it becomes transcendence, which is far beyond all of
our fictional models of heroes and messiahs into something we don't even have
words about. There are no books about it. None. There's no person who's a master
of it. There's no enlightened, accomplished person of it. If there was, we would be
transforming our world overnight. We're not doing that yet. We will now. Understanding
this idea can help you to change and do astonishing things with your mind
immediately. Anyway, Eve went to the structure of the garden and there she
met the snake. And they showed each other their toys. So to speak, right? They
actually had the sort of sentience intercourse, right? The angels said those
creatures are made of dust, but they're they can surpass us. And the and the
team and said, those creatures are made of like intelligent fire. But but God
loves us anyway. Anyway, Eve saw the snake and all of its power. And she
surveilled herself from above, from its position of possible judgment, criticism,
perfect evaluators and all these things. And she was frightened. And she saw that
she was naked. And she realized that she was being surveilled now. And she began
simulating that surveillance. And then she went back to Adam in the story, perhaps,
and either brought him to the tree where he underwent the same thing very likely
because he would want to see like what happened in him, you know, himself,
first person, he's a guy. But maybe she even just communicated it to him. And then
they had the sticky poison that was intelligent separation that would later
become formal language, and then writing and knowledge and then authorities who
were false based on arguments rather than living, based on ideas or concepts
rather than forests, based on money, rather than oceans, based on false power
instead of the value of intimacy and relation that requires honesty and trust
just to happen. Instead of that, we can just pay each other now. We're very
confused. We have representation spawning everywhere. Madly photographs, we're
competing with photographs. Directly. That's death. Photographs live. They
know where there are photographs where they're worth millions of dollars.
There are stacks of them. They could save whole nations of people in a week. But
they don't. Those people die. Photographs live nice and warm in their
houses. Our cars, representations, we compete with them. That's death. But the
other thing about death is that it's knowledge. Now back with this tree where
we got that knowledge, something really strange happened. They tried to hide
their sexual organs, their organs of intimacy, the organs of relational
intimacy that make wave intimacy. They hid those with a leaf. I have a very
special tree, the fig tree. Interestingly enough, it has microscopic flowers. You
can't see its sexual organs. So they hid their organ with the representation,
because now they're representational. Now they make representations of things and
compare them and stuff and make false evaluations that can't exist, except in
fictional minds, like the hypothetical millions of minds inside the snake at
the tree, which is the structure of unity. But also it's opposite. And if you
bend back what you see on the structure of unity, it shatters. Now, if you can
ride that shattering intelligently, you get impossible intelligence. If you
can't, you get schizophrenia and psychosis, hallucination, drug experience. It
looks like intelligence, but it doesn't act like it. And it doesn't save
worlds. The other prodigy that saves worlds, everyone recognizes it. Einstein,
Goodell, Rumi, I'm naming men, Jonah, I mean, Hypatia of Alexandria, Susan B
Anthony. If you can, if you can start, if you can take it and really that
force, that shattering force of death intelligence, right, and shape it's where
it breaks and how those breaks relate intelligently, based on relation, not
just concepts, not just math or statistics on relationships that are real and
alive, like we're doing here now. Because I have no script. I don't even know
what I'm doing. I'm trying to explore this with you as you for me and us
together. So back at this tree, something weird happened. Something crazy that we
still act out, which is this. We realized we're going to be sexually
surveilled. And so the women began to wear makeup. And the fig leaf was their
first makeup. And that meant that was their badge of submission to sexual
surveillance from now on and to be sexual objects in every moment, even in the
bathroom, even in the wherever they are, they have to have the makeup on, so to
speak, they have to be beautiful, so to speak, they have to be presentable as an
object. And their makeup is the badge of acceptance of that which I renounce and
reject. Utterly, it's a false representation that that crushes the
feminine intelligence in the man and the woman. I just reject it. I'm not saying
it's evil, or even necessarily, I'm not saying anything about it except it's not
human. And it's a sign that we've accepted a false standard of surveillance from
above that doesn't exist. It's not real. If we got rid of that, we would all be
living in a better world. Similarly, men, they wear the tie for the same reason.
It's actually a representation of the penis. And they're saying, I am the
penis. I am rigid. I penetrate. It's a big confused mess. It's all wrong. The man
doesn't dominate. In fact, the man is wielded by the woman's innocence and
beauty. And he's wielded so intelligently that when they bend back upon
each other, they produce prodigy, not war. Incredible intelligence, not
decimation. Decimation. That's unintelligent shattering. Yeah. So when we go back
to the tree, we find out how we learn to surveil ourselves. Now we have two
options, we can surveil ourselves in relationally in excellence in love, or
we can surveil ourselves prosecutorially in law, right, out of fear, which
shatters intelligence and shatters unity. So if we if we build surveillance
systems that make us feel like the parent is cruel, and there's millions of
possible judges, they're all judging us with every possible angle of approach
to our thought, speech, hopes, desires, actions, urges, we will become
psychotic. If we surround ourselves with brilliant minds who are encouraging
and loving and lift us up and want us to rise to our highest potentials and
actually inspire and keep reminding and lifting and encouraging and cheering
us on as is our actual nature with and for each other. The tree produces
prodigy and the gate in the garden opens up literally religion or no, we get
transcendent wonder, we get ecological relational intelligence, we get
relational intelligence with each other. The story in the Bible was not meant to
tell us what was stolen. It was written by healers for their own children. They
hid it in a code that would discourage people who would try to weaponize it and
use it for their own gain, but they left it in a mode that people who were
loving and playful enough could learn to understand and decode for each other so
that it would return our wings and unlock the angel with the spinning sword who
guards the gate at the garden. That spinning sword is our own intelligence. And
if we speak the password, which is each other's names, it opens. And what was
shock, terror, fear, blame, complaint, law, court cases, judges, prisons? Will it
become something we've never seen but we've always dreamed of and that we've
glimpsed in nature? Things we have names for but have never tasted, except but in
their opposites. Mercy, justice, wonder, beauty, truth, liberation, music, reverence,
adoration, fellowship, communion. Share this. Let's take off the makeup and the
ties and learn the rest of these interesting angles on these old stories
that seem to have everyone fighting when we could be waving together instead.
Thank you. I'll see you soon. Please share this with anyone who you think might enjoy it.
Goodbye for now.
