Hey everybody. Welcome. In an old Star Trek movie, Spock dies and they put his body in
a photon torpedo tube and launch it toward a planet. And this is the place where the
image of Spock's casket near and what appears to be an ancient fern was shot. And these are
the ferns, the tree ferns. And it was somewhere very near here where that where that image was shot.
I've been looking for a place where I can walk without having to put my mask on and off, though
I'm happy to do so if needed. I have so many things on my mind that would be wonderful to explore.
But today I'm going to try to talk about a couple of ideas that are very old and they're
associated primarily with magical traditions. And this idea of magic is very deep and peculiar.
And it's not like the superficial models and representations and understandings that we have.
The ancient peoples were capable of intimacies that we have lost contact with and experience of.
And some of these intimacies were encoded in a way in ceremonies, rituals. Now we still have
ceremonies and rituals, we just don't recognize them. Mostly we don't recognize them as ceremonies
and rituals. Because we're probably many of us anyway are disinclined to think in these terms.
But our bedtime activities, what we do before we go to bed and what we do when we wake up
and when we make food and eat together and when we go to the store and when we look at the news
or when we watch a movie. These are actually the remnants in our own daily lives
of ceremonies and rituals.
Even when we get into our car or we're preparing to go for a walk,
if we use drugs, if we smoke or drink or eat things, all of these are
modern ceremonies and rituals.
And some of them are encoded in laws.
It's funny to think about our relationship with traffic lights as ritualistic and yet they are.
Or at least it can be useful to think of them in this way.
And so when we see indigenous people's ceremonies represented on film or recorded somehow,
we're seeing something extremely ancient and it's very different from our modern rituals
because of its origins and purposes and those lie in anciently conserved relationships,
older relationships.
And when the indigenous peoples have a song,
a ceremonial song, this is nothing like, well it's not true, it bears some small resemblance
with our idea of songs and in fact there is something kind of magical about some songs.
It depends a lot, it depends on many things.
But they did not make up these songs.
The way that we think of composing, right, this is not like the origins of the old songs.
The old songs were transmissions
from living places and beings.
And when we see the dances, often these are animal dances.
These are also transmissions from living beings to humans.
They are not made up.
They are not composed.
They are gifts.
And encoding is the wrong word but it's a familiar word to us moderns.
There are gifts that encode a moment when between the humans and the animals or between the humans
and the living places, sometimes between the humans and other humans,
something crossed over, a gift, and this gift often involved knowledge
that was previously unavailable.
And so when we see these old ceremonies enacted sometimes today,
we are not seeing something that was composed, we are seeing something that was transmitted and
in societies like these
there are ceremonies that confer knowledge and safety and not just physical safety.
But protections from what can be understood as powerful forces,
protections from what can be understood as negative influences
along with the knowledge and the mysterious
shared benefit that can be transmitted
between beings.
So it is one thing if you see, for example, a squirrel eating a nut and you realize,
ah, this nut is edible. There's a transmission that occurs there
but the songs and the dances and the ceremonies, they come from something less pragmatic,
more mysterious, they come from something invisible. So that
a transmission can be made
in a time of crisis or deep need when people's hearts
are alive with hope or fear
and the living world responds and gives the people something valuable.
And this might be a song and it might be a dance and it might be a ceremony.
Now these are older ways of knowing and us moderns being
unbalanced toward our thinking minds and rationality and also the models and ideas
that we transmit to each other culturally and in language and in concepts.
We live in a swarming storm of representations
and although these are not deep and true transmissions, they are transmissions nonetheless.
So in older ways of knowing from other times and places, we find evidence of knowledge
and ways of knowing that are unfamiliar to us and some of us may be inclined to dismiss these
as nonsensical or mere superstition. That's a grave mistake, generally speaking.
Notwithstanding the fact that many of our experiences of very superficial knowledge
paradigms or paradigms that have collapsed toward mere representations
throughout the ages, these are worthy of dismissal. These are not worth picking up,
yeah, not worth carrying forward.
And most of our modern culture is like this, it's not worth carrying, it's not worth picking up.
And many of our ideas about, especially our rational ideas about what can't be going on
are very confused. We have this problem with our rationality where it wants to dismiss everything
it cannot easily encompass or manipulate in thought with concepts.
And that's an unfortunate situation for all of us because the portion of our humanity
or our experience that can be encapsulated or transmitted in concepts and knowledge
is extremely thin. It's very tiny. And yet we use it in such a way as to pretend
that it's authoritative, powerful, or complete. It is not that our concepts and knowledge have
no reality or power, but rather that the contexts in which they have reasonable
reality or power are much narrower than they appear to us. And so most of being and relation
is invisible and mysterious and charged with potential for transformation, for changing
who we are and can be, what our lives are and can be. And you can see that the
representational overlays collapse these potentials into extremely impoverished deliverables that
nonetheless masquerade is powerful or complete or even true.
For something to be true,
a majorer mind is involved, a kind of accounting mind. And again, this mind is natural and useful,
but when it overpowers the other aspects of awareness and consciousness, we're in very deep
trouble. So we moderns don't understand the old people's knowledge very well.
And what we refer to as magic, this we are extremely confused about in general. And then
there are, of course, subcultures and cohorts that practice what they call magic
in a broad array of costumes.
But there are two ideas from magical traditions that I think are useful to examine
and play with and gain some understanding of in our modern context.
And it's a twin pair of ideas important in almost all magical traditions and echoed,
or rather these traditions echo their origins in deep ceremonial intimacy with nature and each
other existence, being, time, light, space, consciousness. And the concepts that I want
to explore together are the idea of invocation and the idea of evocation.
Now there are very pragmatic aspects of these concepts. So to invoke is to bring something
within oneself that is transformative. Now we can see in our cultures all kinds of representations
of this, news and media, food, which is probably the primordial one, although oxygen is pretty
primordial too. To bring something from without within the self and be thus transformed by it
like a seed of potential. And one might say that the ceremonial dances or songs
are both invocations and evocations. To evoke is to embody outside the self something.
So from the magical traditions that involve
something like contact with other intelligences,
we had names for these other intelligences, and they differed in different times and places.
The ones most familiar to us, but these are neither the beginning nor the end of the
myriad intelligences that
underlie the appearances of physical reality, or maybe over, over stand them.
We have names for these like spirits, angels, demons, so on.
And we have this idea of hierarchies among them and all of this.
I'm not terribly interested in that at the moment. I just want to talk a little bit
about these two ideas so that we may come to understand them and perhaps be able to
gain some knowledge and intelligence about these two ideas because they're
foundational to our being, even though we don't need the language. We don't have to say I am
invoking the spirit of fire when we, you know, when we come to light within,
or I am evoking the spirit of fire when I build the fire in the hearth.
There are many forms of invocation and evocation, and in fact these can be seen as
primordial
framings of primordial aspects of being alive.
We take something in, we are transformed, we make something outside of ourselves,
and we are transformed.
An ancient person suddenly transported to modern culture would probably see cars as the evocation
of a bad force, a negative influence, a bad spirit, because the cars actually look like monsters.
They look like demons, and they're not alive, and they kill by going. They kill by just being.
I think they would find very little of our evocations to be good or healthy.
So too with our invocations, we read the news, for example, and that's taking something in
and being changed by it, and that's kind of a representation of having had deep relationships
with myriad aspects of living places and beings over time, so that when we would go into the
living place, we would be transformed by the news, that which has changed, or that which is
emerging, or that which is departing, and that that sensing of intimacy would come into our being,
and we would would be transformed by it, and this is the kind of thing that news is a representation
of, and you can see how thin and toxic that representation is compared to its origins in
lived adventure, role, and relationship. And of course, we evoke as well. We make things outside
ourselves. The ancient cultures, the very old ones, had no concept of garbage. What they had
was a concept maybe of this is not worth picking up, don't pick that up, not worth taking with you,
don't bring that in, not worth preserving, but they didn't have garbage because they
weren't involved in the mass production of objects. In nature, they found all of their
needs and hopes and dreaming met not by things, but heart to heart met by beings,
and so there was communion of beings. And the ancient peoples knew that to depart from this
communion meant many troubles and crises. The hubris of our modern society necessarily summons
nemesis. These are ideas taken from the Greeks. Hubris could be thought of as arrogant insistence
on one's desires or agendas, in abeyance of recognition of the relationships that will be
changed or damaged or lost if one proceeds down this path. And while they did not probably have
these words, they understood this was a very dangerous thing, one of the negative influences.
Now in magic, to invoke is to bring another being within oneself
to embody this being, that its intelligences may be experienced in our human form.
And to evoke is to cause to appear outside us some form of a being or intelligence
that is not human. And so these two ideas are central to magical practice,
which most often involves the first the imagined relation with other beings, non-human beings,
non-physical beings often, and humanity, but particularly our own humanity, my personal humanity.
And invocations of other intelligences can happen accidentally,
but many ceremonies were forged to facilitate these two desires or intentions, these two purposes,
these motives. There weren't, you know, there were what we might think of as very few
motives involved. One was the gaining of power, another was to cause harm to others or another being,
an enemy. Another was to cause healing, to trace back the threads of disease or injury,
resolve them at their roots, so that healing and health
result. And another was to gain intelligence,
to answer questions, to pursue quests. And this is something that I think
we're very sadly lacking. Our quests have been replaced by representations like jobs
and financial success or social relational power.
But the acquisition of power, harming, healing, learning, and sometimes along with the acquisition
of power could be the acquisition of wealth. Of course, there are different kinds of wealth.
There's representational wealth as in money, and there's interior wealth as in wisdom,
knowledge, intelligence.
Now, as I speak, I draw oxygen into my body, my cells transform it,
and I exhale carbon monoxide. Or at least this is our very superficial model of something
that's going on because it is not merely oxygen I am drawing into my lungs. Here in this living place,
when I inhale,
I'm breathing in myriads of molecules, different molecules.
Biologically, you know, many that have biological origins in microbes and insects and birds and
plants, and many that have human origins in industry. If we were to carefully examine
the composition of what we are breathing, we would find, as we now know, suddenly,
that it's filled with myriads of things, not merely oxygen. And we breathe them in,
some of those things become part of us forever, microbes and viruses, for example.
So what we are breathing is not merely oxygen, and here you can see the problem with narrow
knowledge. Oh, you just need the oxygen, right? So when we put oxygen in a tank to breathe it
under water, it's not the same thing at all that we're breathing when we're outside. Or rather,
the way it is similar to what we are breathing is very narrow. It's just the chemistry mostly.
And it's true that it's, you know, we need that oxygen in a certain mixture with other gases.
But no one who is walking on the face of the earth has ever breathed a breath of just oxygen.
You see, this is, here you see, again, this narrowness, right? Well, what's the utilitarian part?
What's the most important part? Well, the accountant who's doing that accounting,
the accounting aspect of consciousness, very useful and important, but too narrow to deliver wisdom.
Well, it seems strange to think that I invoke the oxygen and M transformed, and then I evoke the
carbon monoxide. And yet, it's not a terrible model. Now, if I'm simply talking with you,
and I smile authentically, we hope, then that may evoke in you an emotion
or a response. It also might not. It sort of depends on how you're in.
You see, the call of the crows evokes, they're evoking in the world, right? And my attention changes.
But the smile evokes a response in you. And humans are extremely sensitive to body and
facial language, much more sensitive than they are to spoken language.
The owl.
Now, you see, by making the call of the owl, I'm bringing something of the owl inside me,
and then embodying it, right? And hearing the owl transforms my attention.
Now, you can see that many of the activities, functions, and behaviors of modern culture
are evocative. We listen to music, we dance, perhaps, or we're like, shut that off.
The sound of engines and machines evokes stress in us when brought in.
Now, the ancient peoples were very concerned about which kinds of things were good to invoke,
to bring in, and be transformed by, and to evoke with our will
to make in the world outside of us, as I am doing with my speech now, transformation.
Because they were aware that there are dangers,
both within our human nature and within the extended societies that extended not just in
place but in time, that we became inclined to form as our indigeneity died out or was killed off
by colonization.
If I make a fire outside myself and I sit with it contemplatively, I am transformed
by this relationship.
If we were conscious, more conscious together, of what we are willing to take in and be transformed
by, and what we will say no to, and what we are willing to make outside of us with our hands
and lives and voices, and what we will say no to, and if we had good traditions and awareness
and we could teach each other and learn together to understand these aspects of our humanity,
we could prosper in ways that we have been too timid to dream of
in the long sleep of our representational cultures and cognition.
In the morning, when the sun rises, I may sing to the sun, oh sun,
source of light and life on earth, beautiful one, benevolent kind star,
come inside my heart and live with me and teach me and guide me.
This is an invocation to the sun. Of course, these are just words I made up, but I do not
speak them without awareness of the actual sun, even though I am merely trying to give an example.
One might say that that more than being, more than thing, is actually the origin point for all
local existence, for all organisms. It's one of the fundamental progenitors,
along with time space, along with the moon, the closest gravidic body other than, you know,
the earth itself, whose gravity influences everything on earth and who has often protected
the earth from impacts that would otherwise have wiped out life.
And if I wanted, though I have never done so,
I could conceivably try to evoke the spirit of the sun, the beingness of the sun.
And in that case, what I would be attempting to do is to bring the intelligence of the sun
into expression, outside my body, but nearby, so that we might converse. And because that's a very
dangerous idea, because that being belongs to another universe that we know little of,
it would be wise to have various protections in such in place. And these, we can see this idea in
the pentagram and circle, square, the triangle, the ellipsis, the hyperbola.
These shapes were used to contain the evocation, so that it would not escape
into a context where its power would be overwhelming and could destroy.
So when you see the representation of people doing magic, and you see the magical circles and
this kind of thing, these are the containers that create a survivable buffer between the embodied
world and the world of origin and non-ordinary beings. Now, many people will say, well, there are
no non-ordinary beings. What's an interesting and rational perspective? It's impossible for one to
know that, however. One cannot say with certainty, oh, there are no non-ordinary beings. There are
only physical beings. Extremely unlikely that this is true. In fact, it's not even true in physical
reality. But I have no intention of pursuing that argument at the moment. What might be more true is
that many of the human ideas about non-ordinary beings and the relation with them are confused,
toy-like representations, commodities. We've seen the burgeoning commodification
of things referred to as spiritual in the New Age movements, in religions themselves, in
the ideas that surround shamanism, even in magical traditions such as Thilema,
and perhaps older traditions such as Vodan, Voodoo.
Over time, the old ceremonies and knowledge tends to collapse into
product, right? Rappers, right? The rapper, nothing inside the rapper, just we're playing with the
rappers. I think it would be incredibly unlikely for an authentic, a person with authentic knowledge
to be willing to take on the label of magician or shaman or life coach unless they were trying
to make money or to gain popularity. A person of knowledge would resist naturally a person
with real wisdom will resist, it seems to me, advertising it. Rather, they will embody it
and have little to say about this unless they're asked in a context that they feel comfortable
with and trust. And so it's a bit suspicious when someone, to me and many others like me,
when someone walks around making the claim, for example, that they are a shaman,
or they are a wizard, or they are a magician, or they are even a witch.
Because the badge doesn't matter. The badge is uninteresting. The essence is what matters.
And the possibilities are so limitless, right? That to encompass them in this way
and produce a deliverable so that I can say, like, oh, this is what I do.
It's a trap that is very narrow compared to embodying.
I am always suspicious of the commodification
of what might otherwise become wisdom or intelligence or skillfulness.
Perhaps this is because
I have seen and in my own way been stung by the incredible poverty
that results from the collapse of embodied wisdom and intelligence and care and concern
and understanding into representations. It's not always or only bad, right? If it were always
or only bad, I would refuse to use language. And that would be an interesting thing to do because
it would change what I can be and become as a human being.
And also I might despise books, which I do not. Though the wild proliferation of them,
I'm a little concerned about.
Our representational aspect that dominates most of our waking thought is extremely dangerous
and endlessly hungry when it is unguided by, when it is not being constantly informed by intimacy
with its origins and its origins have little to do with concepts or language or thought.
They're vastly deeper and what they really are about is relationships.
And those people who think of themselves or call themselves sages or magicians or shamans,
and I don't mean I'm not attempting to denigrate any such people. I'm just merely saying that
the willingness to put on the badge, to take on the label, is too often related to the desire
to sell something. And this is a complex thing, this selling stuff, this commodity stuff.
The world of commodities of value that so profoundly impact the lives of millions or billions
of people. And mostly they impact them very negatively and they obliterate the living world,
which is the origin of human minds and intelligence and potential.
Turning them into saleable commodities, hiding the damage in the places, the living places
and beings that do not have voices in the way we ordinarily think of having voices.
Yet they do have voices to those of us who have recovered our natural humanity with its capacity.
So,
to transform inwardly
in deep attention and awareness, to the non-conceptual, to the non-verbal,
to the feel, the feelings that arise when we are intimate with living beings in places,
even for just a moment.
The subtle movement of the clouds in the sky evokes in me, transforms me inwardly
when I give my attention to that. And there is a feeling that is beyond words,
before words, afterwards. The calls of the animals,
the forging of the little bird. But it goes much further than that because
we humans have capacities unimaginable to common moderns. We have the capacity to
place our being into another being so that we can feel the body of the bird in flight as our own
and see my body from its perspective in the sky.
And someone will say, oh, you're just imagining that.
I wish them luck with that objection because their capacity to forge
that objection relies on their imagination. And they might say, oh, well, I understand that.
What I mean is this isn't a true form of imagination. This is a game and I will have the same problem
with that objection because they're doing the same thing with that objection.
They're just not aware of it because they intend to denigrate the faculty that underlies
all other faculties and that integrates them, the imagination.
And it's interesting that many old religions have severe admonitions against the forming of images.
And even the indigenous peoples were very careful about this
so that if they formed an image for ceremony, that image would be also dissolved and not sustained.
That awareness of that danger eroded over time and transformed into its opposite
where now we live in cultures that thrive on billions and producing billions of images per
second all over the world. What does that cost? What is lost by doing so? Much.
There are vast unaccounted costs for this to the degree that now with our cell phones and
technologies and video cameras or valence equipment, we're killing ourselves in the
living places in order to sustain data, numbers in machines.
A billion photographs per second. Where does it all go? How is it stored? What must die
for that to be sustained? This is the kind of thing the ancient peoples were aware of the danger of,
but they were also aware of having the imagination frozen and flattened into a representation
so that no more is it within us. Now it's something outside us
and we take it in and we are transformed by it. So the image is intended to evoke.
We see the image of the angel or we see the image of the Christmas tree or we see the image
of the influencer and we are changed.
So the image is the evocation, our reception is the invocation.
You can see this principle at work everywhere in our culture.
Advertising is intended to evoke desire.
Either through similarity, similitude, which is a fundamental principle
underlying magical thought. The other principle is contagion,
that things spread. Certain kinds of things
can be communicated broadly by simply placing a seed in the right place.
Similitude and contagion. My friend Ryan Firstdiver, who you can find on YouTube
and who I strongly recommend, is one of the people who understands about these ideas in a deep
non-superficial and not fundamentally representational way.
Like myself, he is aware that theories and models, however interesting they may be,
are relatively disposable when placed alongside their origins and what we would like
is access to their origins rather than the theories and models.
Now, of course, some of the people who are engaged in who will take on the label of something.
I am a guru, I am a teacher, I am a shaman, I am a witch, I am a magician, I am a healer.
It's not all bad. Some of these people who are willing to wear the badge
are deeply authentic in their way of life, but it's a very dangerous trap for the ego
to wear the badge. It can be a way of actually becoming something like the opposite of what
is being presented or represented by the name, because we can easily fall into the representation
and lose touch with the origins. I suppose there was another
feature of this pair, this invocation, evocation, which is to dismiss
eviction, to bring an invocation or an evocation to an end,
but also to evict something that has been taken up in a culture or a society
to get rid of, that which is not desirable to continue with.
There's a word in magic for this. It's just escaping the grasp of my vocabulary at the moment.
Let me think.
Of course, in some religions or practices, there's the idea of exorcism, which is to evict.
We can think of this more pragmatically. We can think of it in the sense that, say,
I have a habit that is harming me, and I'd like to replace that with a habit that is helpful or
healthy, or to simply stop harming myself. It is this kind of thing. I change course
so that the the hooks of the habit, they slide off of me rather than gaining purchase
and restructuring my life.
This potential for something in us, which we might call the traveling aspect of awareness,
the aspect that can go outside of our body and travel. This was well known by the ancients
and largely dismissed by the moderns as mere superstition.
But please believe me when I say to you that there are faculties within you in your human
interiority. And actually, I don't mean please believe me. Please go find them,
recover them, for you will know great joy in recovering them, and you will be endlessly shocked.
You will never get over your surprise at the powers inherent in our humanity,
the power to directly inhabit another being with the traveling aspect of our essence.
As if our soul has organs and one of them can go into other beings and living places and dwell
within them and and communicate back to us from there or even for the other being like the bird
or the raccoon or the mouse for us to go with them in their world, in their body with our awareness.
And, you know, it's natural for us to feel sympathy, which is to resonate with and empathy,
which might be thought of as to form a receptive body for the feelings and experiences of others.
And in the first case, sympathy, it's almost like we become the other, right? They cry, I cry,
with them, half as them. And with empathy, and of course, these words can mean different things
for different situations, but with empathy, it is more that I feel deeply the resonance of the other
without collapsing entirely into it, so that I still have a kind of local integrity, right,
of my own, to go with others in their feelings. And the capacity of the traveling body is more
like the capacities of this traveling body are more like sympathy, right, becoming the other,
but it's natural for us to sympathize and empathize, and this is actually why we like to watch
videos and movies and things. And it's also why, you know, if we see someone harmed,
we may feel pain. And we also have some sense of justice and injustice, right, like that harming
is wrong, I must intervene, or that harming is somehow righteous, and I must participate.
That's a more confusing idea, but we've all felt angry or vengeful. We've all been subject to
retribution or enacted it in our lives, in some ways.
But it is this aspect of our interiority that can inhabit another being, or living place,
or moment, or situation, that I hope you may pursue the recovery of.
Watch the bird. Imagine that its body is your body. Feel its wings as they pulse, right.
Feel its head move as it surveys the terrain. Look where it looks. Imagine seeing what it sees.
Imagine feeling the shape of its body as your body. And as you continue this process,
your mere imagination will eventually open up like a flower, and you will have the direct
experience of being an animal, or a tree, or a living place. And it's tragic that we live
as and die as human beings without this experience because of blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah. There's some fucking authoritative guy, judge thing. It doesn't have
to be gendered. There's this thing, this accounting thing, and it wants to say like,
all of that is just nonsense. I have no experience of that. Okay, you have no experience of it.
But if you have no experience of it, perhaps you're not entitled to say it's not true or, you know,
accessible. In fact, we're not just born with senses. We're born with myriads,
endless potential senses. And if they are not developed, we live our lives as if they don't
exist. And so one of the most beautiful things we can do together as human beings is to work
together to recover these faculties to our direct experience. And by this, I do not mean
form religions, right? Or theories or models or even language. I actually mean recovering senses.
And they're not verbal. They're not conceptual. And our imaginations and our hearts are deeply
woven into these potentials that most of us will live and die never experiencing. Or we may experience
them for a brief moment and be very surprised, but we will go back to sleep, right? We will go back
to sleep in the conceptual, rational, pseudo logical, right? Because none of us are actually
logical. We may employ logic, but there are no sparks among us. Though there are neurodivergence
who resemble something like this. Often they're profoundly impoverished, because if one dwells
in logic and modeling and computation, then it's easy to evict most of the faculties that might
otherwise connect us with each other, with our origins, with our essence, with our interiority,
with the invisibles. So I had it in my mind to reflect briefly on invocation and evocation.
These old ideas that are all around us all the time were constantly evoking, invoking,
in all kinds of ways that are totally commonplace to us. We just do not think in these terms usually.
And even those who have formally, ceremonially invoked or evoked beings or principles,
they may have a very narrow idea of what invocation or evocation
might be. Some of them may have deep and very rich ideas about these things. Nonetheless,
they recognize the difference between the ideas and being, becoming,
that toward which the language models and ideas point, that which they point toward.
They know the difference between the idea, the word, and
that toward which it points, which is unspeakable, though we could call it by various names.
We might call it sympathy, we might call it empathy, we might call it
transformation of our interiority. So I had this idea to
reflect on these words briefly the other night. And my wanderings today
have only imperfectly, very imperfectly embodied my intention. Nonetheless, it's fun.
And I learned so much by trying to speak of these things, which is a really important part of why
I make videos, right? Because I'm relating, invoking and invoking,
with aspects of my human interiority that are very difficult for me to relate with
intellectually or in language, unless I decide to walk on that bridge between the two.
Reflecting both on the concepts, language, and ideas and on the unspeakable
invisibles they point toward. And I like to come more on the side of the ladder
to remember and to honor, to have reverence and wonder and awe for
the astonishing depth of our nature as living beings, as human beings,
and as essential beings, what we might call spiritual beings, or soulful beings.
And of course, I am rarely satisfied with my talks. They are essays in the sense of an attempt,
right? I think the word essay means to attempt, to try.
But I am grateful for those of you who wander with me
and help me to grow and learn and grant me some of your attention.
And hopefully my wanderings may evoke in you the desire to explore and learn and rediscover
and recover the living library of faculties innate in our lives as human beings, largely
denied, represented, commodified in our modern cultures. So thank you. I'm grateful to have
this time together. And I hope that we shall wander and learn, explore, and quest together
again very soon. Bye-bye for now.
