So I'm at the San Francisco Botanical Gardens and that's the
entrance, the great entrance Cyprus tree. It's really amazing. And this is a big
walnut tree and these are the Atlas cedars that I love that live here. And
about light. Of course I'm very often thinking about things like light and
time and space and you know, origin and incarnation, matter, all these things. But
I'm thinking today about light in a variety of different ways. Now in each
language there's a different unique word for light. I don't know them all. I would
like to know them all. I bet they share some quality that we could learn to
recognize. Although surely in some languages that quality would be very
subtle. In English, and I suspect in many other languages, the word light is used
to analogize all kinds of things. We would say, for example, that somebody with
a really nice smile has a bright smile. And we might say that there's light in
the eyes of living beings that we that we can sense. And of course a different
sense of the word is not heavy, right? It's not heavy, it's light. So in English
there's a lot of analogies for light. We might say, for example, that a very, a
particularly intelligent person is bright. But we might also mean that person
is spirited. So that light has analogies with vitality, intelligence, spiritedness,
playfulness, and many others that we could we could catalog. Now as you can see
today is not particularly, oops, let's try this. It's not particularly bright, right?
Today is a relatively gray day here in San Francisco, although the clouds are
backlit by the sun. And the sun around here is crucially important. Obviously
without light, we might have other senses, but we would certainly not have vision.
And of course what is meant by light isn't only the light that we see, but it's
the what science has termed the spectrum of electromagnetic radiation. Oh, here's
a really nice mushroom bloom at the base of what I think is some kind of fir tree.
Yeah, these are these are great big mushrooms. I don't know what kind they
are, but it's a nice little bloom. So in previous recent talks I spoke about
how the material world can be imagined as a projection of qualities from a
transcendental order of being, which I sometimes call origin just for a simple
to have a very simple way of talking about it. Origin meaning that dimension,
that living dimension from which all things acquire their properties or
character. And around here in material existence, light is a profound aspect of
the expression of that potential. And the marriage of light and water is
something I talk about very regularly and I'm fascinated, entranced by,
enchanted by. But the thing that I wanted to talk about today is that aspect of,
that we might think of as the metalog, the source in a transcendental domain of
light that we experience here in the physical world in our incarnation.
In matter. I think Sting once, when he was with the police, wrote a song called
Invisible Son, in which he says there has to be an invisible son. And though I
don't know the lyrics perfectly, it goes something like that gives its light to
everyone. But I think there's something more profound going on, even than that.
Although that's an important idea and hearing that stated poetically was an
important moment for my development. Because there are many things in our
human experience and existence that we have awareness of, but that awareness
maybe has not yet become conscious and so it has not yet become conceptualized or
transmittable in language. And so when I heard that, I don't know, I was maybe 17
or something when I first heard that, it really had a significant impact on me.
It's the kind of thing where something deep inside me said, yes, yes, there has to be an invisible son.
Something that the physical son is our expression of, or is the local expression of.
And maybe that son is the analogous light that we see in each other's eyes,
in each other's visages, that we see in the play of children, that we see sparkling in
the reflections of moving water.
There's on earth, in our incarnate experience, there are essentially, we
have experience of three kinds of light. I mean, we could, you know, make further
discriminations, but for my purposes, these three will suffice. The first is
sunlight, which is really interesting in that it imbues the world with color.
Color comes into our experience primarily due to sunlight, and sunlight is a bit
declarative in that it tells us the shape and form and color of things in a
very direct way. The things you can see around me, the shape of my face, it's all
very distinct. You don't have to doubt that you're looking at me or my eyes.
It's not suggesting that Darren's face is here. It's declaring, it's asserting, and
I think our waking intelligence is a lot like that. It likes assertions, it likes
declarations, it's interested and confused in relation to what we refer to as
truth. So I think our waking minds are a lot like the activity of sunlight in our
waking lives. If you look around me at the moment, all of this is quite
clear. The sunlight doesn't tell us what things are, but it does reveal in great
and stunning detail their shapes, where they begin, where they end. Shades, color,
and even in dim sunlight, which we have today, all of these things are pretty
obvious in sunlight. Now one of the other kinds of light that we experience,
hopefully, although these days it's a bit harder to experience that directly, is
moonlight. And moonlight is quite different from sunlight. Moonlight does
not so easily declare the shape or form or colors of things. And in fact, in
moonlight color is largely replaced by grays, shades of gray. And form and shape
are suggested rather than declared, so that in moonlight a sweep of branches
can appear to be an animal or a bird or the figures that we see around us start
to take on a more dreamlike quality. And of course, at night we dream. Not that
it's impossible for us to dream in the daytime. I've had this experience. In fact,
thankfully, I've had it recently while taking a dip in Lake Arrowhead. So we have
sunlight, which is very crisp and declarative and is the source of color.
We have moonlight, which is dim, the source of grays, things blend together, and our
imagination is invited into direct expression because what we see is less
complete. And rather than being declared the way that sunlight does, it is
suggested. There's a suggestion of a tree over there. Is it a tree? Is it a bush? I'm
not sure. What is it? What is that? Right. So in moonlight identity changes. The
nature of our relationship with identity changes because the nature of our
relationship with light has changed. And this is really fascinating to me. Now, the
other two kinds of light, although I started out mentioning three. So that
would mean there's one more, but I'll mention two others. So the first kind is
starlight, which is quite profound but has very little effect on what we can see
down here on earth because it doesn't generate enough light in most
circumstances to affect our vision. But it's something that we can see in the
sky that's very profound and beautiful and I think very important. What's going
on up there in what we refer to as outer space is fundamentally intimate with
everything that we observe here on earth. Because all of the things that we see
here come, they are almost like crystallizations. They could be thought
of as crystallizations of qualities in outer space or time space. Here's another
interesting little mushroom bloom. It's been very moist here lately, so there's a
lot of fungal activity and it's probably a huge mat underneath the ground that
these mushrooms are the flowering bodies of. I'm going to walk over here to say
hi to a tree that doesn't belong, but is a heart friend of one of my
friends. So there's sunlight. We know of sunlight, we know of moonlight, direct
from our experience. We would know these things without science as long as we had
eyes and even if we didn't have eyes we would know something of the sun because
we would feel it on our skin and our faces. And of course we have the
scientific, you know, concepts and models of electromagnetic radiation. But
that's a very different thing from what I want to speak about at the moment. Now
of course when I first began my discussion I mentioned there are three
kinds of light we're familiar with. Physical light anyway. Sunlight, moonlight,
and of course the light that's bringing my image to you now, electronic light.
And it's hard to imagine. This is a tree that me and my friend West spent some
time with when he was visiting me. In Latin it's a cupressus macrocarpa. In English
it's a Monterey cypress. And it's huge and beautiful and damp at the moment. So
we also experience electronic light and for all that that technological
development has given us some liberty and freedom and convenience those things
come with prices. And probably not too many people are aware of this but when
they were first introduced there was a staggering backlash against electronic
light. Some people saw it as a wonder but many people saw it as a curse. And people
who had wisdom said, you know, where will this lead? And it's an important question
because we're losing our experience of the nighttime sky. Having nocturnal
electronic light disturbs the bio rhythms of all of life on earth including humans.
And recently I saw an article that claimed that the massive die-off in many insect
populations that is presently going on on earth is partly caused by light. Recently in my
neighborhood the street lights were changed from incandescent which produced a sort of warm
golden glow to LEDs which produce a clinical visually disturbing white glow that actually
seems to kind of vibrate in a bad way to me somehow. And that was a really disturbing
transition that I can't really affect but has changed my experience of being outside at night.
So we have these these three primary kinds of light that we experience although there used
to be a different form of common artificial light which was the light produced by burning things
or candles. And that's a kind of golden light the light of fire right which the electronic light
is a strange derivation of. But rather than speak much about artificial light I want to return to
the the two kinds of light that are common to our ordinary animalian experience sunlight and moonlight.
And one of the things that occurred to me is that if there is something like an invisible sun say
the source of being right the origin of our of our being of our minds of our hearts of our
emotions that that our minds and hearts and emotions are expressions of a relationship with
this invisible sun so to speak or origin light. And I'm not asking us to believe anything here.
I'm not saying oh here's some metaphysical model you should believe that's not at all what
I'm doing I'm rather suggesting a perspective that I find fascinating and somewhat enlightening to
play with right to consider to think with to think about without having to believe any particular
model or metaphysics. The other day as I was making a live video at the lake with the tree
and the water and the reflections and talking about how perhaps material reality is a peculiar form
of reflection in matter of something that's going on in a universe beyond matter so that all of the
shapes and forms and relationships and characters and qualities of material and organizational
existence are expressions of goings-on in a transcendental plane. Now it's possible that the
other that that the the opposite relationship obtains which would be that the forms and
relationships and activities and qualities and characteristics of material of the material
world inform a transcendental dimension. And if I think carefully about this idea which I think
is relatively radical even though it's not that hard to imagine or think up it seems likely that
both things are going on right so the material world is at once the living sort of material
reflection of a transcendental world and what happens here informs the character and organization
and perhaps spirit of that transcendental world as well. So if we think that there is a thing
like the Sun in a transcendental dimension of which the Sun here is a physical expression
then we might imagine that over time there has been something like weather right there's been
something analogous to the fact that right now the sky is gray yeah I can't see the Sun now if
the sky had been gray every day since I was born and if no other people were talking to me I might
not know there was a Sun there would be light all the time but if the sky were gray for every
day well I mean certainly children are born in gray times and it could be weeks or months in some
unlikely cases years before a human child ever sees the Sun and of course some people are born
blind some tiny percentage of those people might regain their sight and see the Sun for the first
time and realize oh my there's this astonishing feature of reality that's been hidden from me all
this time and so I wonder if like these children we have always been in the influence of an invisible
Sun but have rarely glimpsed it and have not been encouraged to imagine it though we're encouraged
to imagine other strange transcendental things particularly like angry gods and stuff like that
which is a little bizarre because I mean if you were if you were an infinite being omnipresent
an omnipotent do you think you'd run around like a child having a tantrum accusing and
blaming and threatening it just doesn't seem very likely to me like you'd probably be ecstatic most
of the time and I doubt it would even be possible to consider the things that might somehow enrage
a deity but in any case back to this the idea of weather so if we think of human history as a very
brief moment rather than a very long moment if we think of the history of our species let's say
going back to the time when we first when the first glimpses of representational cognition
which by which I mean the capacity to use language and to understand concepts and to have models of
things formally in mind if we go back just before about that time and we look at the entire history
of humans from that time until this time as say I don't know equivalent to a week or a month
right there might have been sunny days there might have been days in the history of our species
where the light of origin was obvious right where the thing that the Sun is a material representation
of in matter where that origin where that transcendental more than a being more than a thing was
obvious to everyone and everyone could sense it and see it and feel its presence and have its light
transform their seeing their knowing their souls there may have been days that were bright so bright
that when the brightness went away when the when the heavenly weather changed and it became dark
we humans established religions in remembrance of something that used to be an absolute part of
our common experience but disappeared behind something analogous to clouds as our cognitive
and spiritual evolution proceeded when you hear the birds you know there are birds though you
cannot see them but light does not make sound so you cannot hear the light it's something you
have to perceive with actual light of course we perceive it with our eyes but it affects lots
of things right it affects our skin and when I think back about this idea that over time the
human experience of the light of origin has changed has been through transformations in a way not
dissimilar to how our experience of the Sun changes if I did not know there was a Sun I would not be
able to tell there was by looking at the sky today and so perhaps we live in a time where the light
of origin staggeringly profound to experience is hidden and cannot be sensed directly and I suspect
that when it could our hearts and souls danced with joy but they may also have been terrified
because the very first time one sees the Sun it's not merely beautiful for many of us anyway it would
not be merely beautiful it's kind of scary it looks like it could destroy everything it's really big
really powerful the source of light itself right it could be a god it might be it might be coming
toward us right maybe it could burn everything up we don't know so with really powerful phenomenon
like the Sun or the moon or earthquakes or floods or things like this as beautiful as nature and
origin are they are also of a magnitude that it can be incredibly overwhelming right
I have had an experience in my lifetime that lasted for a long time much longer than I expected
in which I felt I sensed this light this more than light of which I'm painting pictures now
and the analogy of a gray day is quite profound because if we look back in human history we
will find stories particularly Babylonian stories of the disappearance of the gods
and in fact in many religions there's this thread where something divine was always with us
and here's a broken piece of sage something divine was with us and then departed we did not know
why we did not know why and since we did not know why like children we made up stories in some of
those stories the brightness went away because we were bad the divine light of origin that was at
some point in our history present to our experience and awareness disappeared behind clouds and we
might have decided that's because we were bad of course I think most of us would agree that cloudy
days that hide the Sun don't happen because we are bad now they can it's not impossible right we
can change the atmosphere we can be bad in such a way that the atmosphere changes clouds up all
the time and we don't see the Sun anymore that's conceivable as you know as a species but probably
not as individuals so I like to think that there is something analogous to a meta Sun something
transcendental that the Sun that we're familiar with is a material expression of and that over time
our species has experienced something analogous to weather in our relationship with this transcendental
light of living light of origin and I guess when I say living what I mean is more than merely a force
it's not simply a mechanical phenomenon and if we look all around us though science has framed
nature in terms of mechanics because this is what science is good at and does it's very clear that
that description or that explanation is entirely insufficient to capture the spirit in the eyes
of a child or a grandmother or a raccoon or a bluejay or a cat or a dog or even the the spirit
available to those who are sensitive enough to detect it in plants in living places in moving
waters on which the light is dancing so when I think of the history of our species and the
very confusing questions that surround our religions I am want to suspect that we've
experienced something like weather our distant ancestors it's funny when I when I went under
this little bow my machine made more brightness in the image that's really funny so it got
darker for me while it got brighter on the camera hmm peculiar I'm fascinated by this this idea
that over over the history of the cognitive and relational evolution of our species there has
been weather and we may have affected that weather the onset of machines the discovery the sort of
birth of science these things changed our ideas they changed our orientations our perspectives
you can hear probably in the background now the noise from the machines nearby so I suspect that
some of what we did as a species transformed our relationship with that transcendental transcendental
sun or star or light of origin and maybe hit it from us much more thoroughly than would have been
possible had we not had our species taken a different path right oh here's a beautiful
beautiful red red hawk on this limb it's sharpening its beak I wonder if
it's really hard to hold this still I'm not used to it
it's even harder if you magnify it right because then the little tremors of my hand
become very significant yeah it's a beautiful animal really gorgeous
so I wanted to share with you this this toy this this idea that over human history there are
there are days when days there are epochs when the light of origin is more or less
perceivable to our people and there are times in which the analog of the sky that lies between us
and this light of origin that analog sky is cloudy or perhaps we ourselves have clouded it and
we no longer sense the presence of this light that funds our own spirit our emotions our hearts
our intelligence our creativity and may even in character the activities of our societies
may contribute to the character of those activities so if there's an invisible sun
that everyone's heart is an expression of right this isn't just to say it gives us light we might
very well be those those aspects of our inwardness that we refer to as our souls might be the direct
expressions of our filial our family relationship with this invisible sun
and that over history there have been transformations in that relationship and there continue to be
and then of course even within a single human life right we don't have to take the entire
history of mankind or life on earth even within a single human life there are there is a time
when the light of origin is near at hand right and though we do not recognize it it moves us as
children to play it moves us to joy to be silly to be beautiful to be very expressive to be frightened
to be alone to be confused right when it is missing or when it's counterfeited by things
in our culture that have no trustworthy essence and yet are posed as sources of light for example
we call famous people stars this is another one of these weird analogies that
it strikes me is unlikely to be entirely accidental if indeed anything can be entirely accidental
so we have all this phony brightness right including the electronic light stuff that
replaces or even like our electronic lights at night produce the pollution that hides the stars
of our sky there's a similar kind of pollution in the domain of relation where we would normally
be aware of and celebrate together and embody the invisible sun that is the source of relational and
original being
we've had many gray days lately and i think that's part of what led me to wonder about
what it would be like for a species like ours
to have had many gray eons yeah many gray millennia so many that first the light of origin
was obscured then it was hidden then it was lost completely then we made religions about it
then some of us went looking to see if it were still accessible to us and some of us found
paths back toward it and some of us found counterfeits and some of our cultures founded
counterfeits like the electronic light that isn't alive that is harmful to life
in most of its activities and results many of its origins
so i think
there's been bad weather for a long time in that space that separates
our souls and our hearts from their origin and so although we have many stories about
an invisible sun there very very few of us have had the opportunity to relate directly with it
though its existence is in some way certain because our desire for relation emanates from that
from that place and includes qualities of character and purpose and orientation
that we've inherited from because we can be said to emanate from this invisible sun
our souls our hearts and perhaps our minds and i wonder what would happen
i'm very curious i think it would probably be really confusing and terrifying at this point
which is maybe part of why it doesn't happen but if the clouds were suddenly depart and the
light of origin were commonly available to human experience again i'm very curious about what would
happen in that circumstance how the humans would respond and certainly you can you can tell kind
of what would happen just by watching what what human beings do en masse in the circumstance we
are in where it's hidden they make up stories about it they sell each other stories about it
one person lays claim to it oh i've seen the sun come follow me
me um but that sun belongs to everybody it's an essential aspect that the the invisible light
of being of origin the intelligence the beauty the love that are natural to us when the weather
is good when the when the light is is available to our experience they are always with us it's
just a question of can we sustain them together when times are difficult when the sun is hidden
when our people have forgotten it when instead they have stories and war religions and bizarre
fashionable metaphysics because trust me in the light of that sun in the light of origin
all of those things would melt away to nothing they would be obliterated by it
there would be no story capable of containing it or or even really pointing at it like
it is in fact transcendental it's beyond all conception it's beyond all stories
um at least my personal and admittedly limited experience of this topic strongly suggests suggests
that all of those things are true i saw on the way here a little girl with her father
i know their family and the brightness that was pouring out of that child
was really inspiring to me and profound and beautiful and made me realize there are places
in our experience where that light still shines
there's a helicopter very loud surprising how the noise of machines really dominates
a context a moment ago it was mostly birdsong now it's mostly engine
but the birdsong will prevail again
may you have a chance may you have the opportunity to discover whether there's something
to this conjecture i present you with today that there is an invisible sun or something even better
than a sun that it's more than simply a being that you have a direct and personal relationship
with it in fact it may be that your own mind and heart are expressions of it the way that color
is an expression of light in the environment i hope you may have the opportunity to discover
in your own way in a way that's true and unique and personal to you whether there's something
to this conjecture that we have shared today and i'm so grateful to have this chance to walk and
think and dream and reflect upon the beauty of the world that we live in the profundity of the
nature of light and time and reflections and spirits and hearts and minds bye bye for now
