Hello everybody. Welcome. I have just
reattached my wind buffer to my wired
Apple headset, microphones, or
microphone. It's not particularly windy
but I'm sort of pleased with the simple
solution of wrapping a cotton ball
around the mic and securing it with a
M. It's probably a formal name for
these objects but a bread wire, right?
Those little wires that sometimes close
the bread package. A lot of contrails in
the sky today. I suppose there are
people who suspect that every time they
see a contrail, they're seeing what
chemtrails. Pretty sure most of those
contrails are just vapor caused by vapor.
The engines heat the air, makes a vapor
trail. There might be occasionally in
some places some things that aren't
contrails but I strongly suspect that
people who spent their lives watching
aircraft and contrails would alert us.
I know this is a very controversial
topic that borders on the conspiratorial
but there are other strange problems
like, I guess, maybe my objection isn't
as strong as I once thought. This often
turns out to be the case. One of my
simple objections was if somebody's
spreading some kind of chemistry in the
atmosphere itself and they're doing that
on purpose, it's going to affect them
and their children and their children's
children and so forth. I suppose it
could be that they don't have any
children and they don't care. This is
strange. This is the second bit of a
carcass that I've seen today and it's
interesting because I almost never see
bits of carcass and I walk here every
day. Is it just that today I'm noticing
what I don't notice? Or is today a bit
of carcass day? I just don't know.
They're rather disgusting. Little chunks
of fleshy, bloody, gristle and fur and
things. Certainly unappetizing. I don't
necessarily have a plan for this talk
today. We'll see where it goes. I was
thinking about some things. Various
kinds of magical intent. The
transactional kind where you trade
something often or sometimes this is
apparently whatever is referred to by
one's soul for some boon or benefit in
the short term. It seems like a wildly
stupid idea to me. Hopefully I haven't
accidentally done that myself. And the
kind where you employ, wow, what is that sound?
Oh, it's a bird. Oh, it's a baby bird. It's a
feed me sound. Okay. There are two
fundamental principles of something
resembling our idea of magic which let's
face it. It's get or accomplish
something without physically having to
do the thing or, you know, chase the
thing or something. Something like this.
So in traditional Blackfoot knowledge,
the language is problematical because
what magic means in English is a broad
array of things or actually magic doesn't
mean anything in any language. It's just
a word. What actually happens with words
is that we use them to mean things to
each other in actual conversations
unless we're not having conversations
and we're just saying things. And this
becomes very confusing very quickly
because then the presumption that words
have meanings begins to pervade. We have
to interpret the gap, what gap, the gap
of no relationship, no no pre-existing
context, random context, and so forth.
There are ways in which that situation
can become useful for us, but only if we
deal with it very insightfully,
intelligently.
And what do I mean? I mean
the randomization of language
is a kind of a paramagical substrate.
What am I trying to mean by magic? Well,
I'm not trying to mean illusionists
tricks. Fascinating though they are.
And I'm not trying to mean the mere
manipulation of the vulnerabilities
in human thought and consciousness.
I'm trying to mean something more like
perhaps what people usually very naively
mean with the word manifesting.
An idea that I fundamentally mistrust
or maybe it's just the language that I
mistrust. Or maybe I'm ill-informed
which isn't as rare as I might like to be.
Yes, I'm not, as my listeners know,
a big fan of the secret or the various
cults that derive their
central premises from such ideas.
At the same time, there is something to
a kind of envisioning or dreaming of the
future that is very powerful.
The question is, is it as trivially silly?
Like what happens when you make that idea
explicit is one of the questions. Because
there's a fundamental difference between
peripheral vision and foveal vision
between explicit identity and potential
identities.
And in that blur, there's something
transcendentally momentous and powerful.
But if we make the blur explicit, irony
often results. Meaning direct contradiction
with stated purposes, goals, hopes,
desires, intentions, cautions, and so forth.
And so perhaps what actually bothers me
about the manifesting cults is that
they're taking something that I suspect
properly belongs to the peripheral
and making it foveal. Your foveal vision is
the center, center vision. It's what you use
when you look at something. It was your
peripherals, what you use when you spread
your gaze and take in the whole, right?
And as some of you know, that if you gaze at
the night sky, when you look at stars, you
can see the stars visible to your
foveal vision.
When you look toward them,
if you spread your gaze, you will see stars
that will literally disappear if you look
at them.
And this is kind of what my concern is
as well as a sort of ideological trivialization
of destiny, dreaming, visioneering.
Yes, yes, yes. Ascent of the herbs. Beautiful.
So yeah, I'm getting somewhere near what
sticks in my craw. And the weird thing
about this problem for me is that
by explicitly pointing at what sticks in my
craw, I, you know, this is part of the
problem with thinking and part of the
problem with language. Once I think I have
a sense of what might be going on, I tend
to become kind of clingy about that. And
in that clinginess, well, you know, it's
not always conflicted, but it's often
produces a significant conflict.
Sage flower, scent.
In Blackfoot, the two principles are
similitude and contagion. And they mix
together, they mate, they bond, they form
very powerful abilities, you might call
them, as well as faculties.
I'm not going to lecture about that today.
These two principles are also found in
other magical traditions, such as voodoo,
voodoo, various witching ways,
and perhaps also shamanism. Resemblance
is a way to understand similitude. And
similitude is a very sophisticated word
that my friend Ryan, first diver, uses.
Contagion is fairly obvious.
In a way,
to refer to something directly in consciousness
can often be a bit of a trap for us,
whereas to suggest it is much more powerful
and in a sense magical, by which I mean
transcendentally potent.
Historically, women, females, are masters
of indirect communication. Suggestion,
entransment, which places consciousness
into a sort of a flow state that can then
be directed
or shaped, or both, redirected, so forth.
Yesterday, at this spot, there was a young woman
sitting on a log up above me, and she was
practicing playing a particular kind of
flute that appeared to be made of wood
or possibly bamboo. I sat down, you know,
without gazing directly at her, because
once again, explicit attention
produces problems, or, you know, is occasionally
appropriate. But usually, if we're going to,
if we're paying direct attention to something,
it's often that we have the desire to capture,
possess, or manipulate it. And nobody really wants to be captured,
possessed, or manipulated. There's that
explicitness in language again, of course, sometimes we do,
or sometimes we partly want that.
Or an aspect of us desires this, while other aspects of us
flee from it. This is the stormy cloud
of what it's like to be human.
I've made it to the high view.
And there's that thing that looks a bit like Warden Cliff Tower,
but is actually the
the emergency public broadcasting speakers.
Hmm.
The peripheral and the foveal.
You know, dreaming consciousness largely corresponds to the former.
Waking consciousness to the latter.
Without being explicit, allow me to suggest that
in the daytime, in bright sunlight, the sunlight declares the color and
identity of objects and situations. What they are
doing is obvious. It's explicit, relatively explicit.
Whereas the moonlight, if it's there, or even the total darkness.
In total darkness, it's pure suggestivity, right?
You can't, you don't know where anything is. You can tap your way along the path
with a stick if you're lucky, or skillful, or practice that.
If you're very witchy, you can run in the darkness.
I've never known someone who can do that. I can usually perambulate.
I've heard of people who can run in pitch darkness,
having practiced a kind of a non-ordinary
sensing array that is natural to humans and animals, but rarely
siren.
Terrible noise dominates the entire oral sphere.
Thankfully, most situations are highly temporary.
The moonlight suggests rather than declares identities,
and thus, pareidolia. I need to look up exactly how to pronounce
that word. But the imaginative experience of shapes
and faces in, for example, the whorling
bark of trees, or the texture of the surface of the trail,
or the clump of bushes that just happens to be in a shape
that looks like a raccoon, and you can't at first tell it isn't.
So there's this dichotomy between suggestion, declaration, that's very
profound, and similarly in dreaming, because in dreaming
things, beings, and situations, you know, we may later decide, oh, that was my
brother, that was our house, that was this, that was that.
But in the actual dreaming experience, it's not
really like that. A house that's quite different from mine can be my house,
my sister can be a man, all kinds of strange
what amalgams of possible and actual form, identity,
function, behavior ensue.
Usually when, I don't know, when those jays are making that noise, there's often a
raptor in your mind, but maybe not. It doesn't sound as
chiding, sounds more like, here I am, here I am, I'm over here.
Although that looks like a raptor tree to me,
that's uh Stellar's Jay, making the calls. See, there's that thing, right, of
explicit categorical identity.
So there are kinds of magic that don't really require
trades, right, they're not transactional, and by magic in this case
I mean the curation of time, space, and
relationships in the hope of producing
the resemblance of desired situations, transformations,
relationships, without manipulating them directly physically,
although some kinds of physical activity such as ceremony and or ritual,
whether they are formal or informal, may be involved.
You know, one can envision very formally by deciding I'm going to sit
in this place which is powerful and envision,
but then, you know, think about, okay, so when you go to sleep,
dreaming tends, for many of us, some of the time, to resemble breathing.
It just happens, it happens, it's as if it happens to us
and also within us. Now one can then form intentions around dreaming,
for example, the intention to dream about a specific thing,
or the intention to the request that the dreaming aspect helps us better
understand the situation or experience the transformation of
some kind or gain what we think of as information about
something that's otherwise difficult to know about,
as if the dreaming mind has powers that are irracular and
transcendentally seeing, and I think it does.
The dreaming mind is an array of faculties and also
some things we might think of as functions, meaning it does stuff,
important stuff, regenerating the organs, cleansing the metabolism,
transforming the energetic situation in the body,
what you might think of as spiritual energies or soul energies,
or life energies, or electromagnetic, subtle electromagnetic stuff,
all of these things the dreaming mind is naturally skillful with.
And it does its job much like our heart and lungs do without
much instruction, but it can also be instructed or skillfully developed,
much like our breathing, perhaps like our heart rate,
certainly like our habits of thought.
So we can have the formal intention to vision
ear futures.
And there's what I remember when I was younger, the
informally visioneering futures, and many of them came to fruition.
But there was a mix, right? Like I formally wanted to play the guitar,
I formally wanted to be a graphic designer, I formally wanted to publish
texts,
I formally wanted to be a good fisherman, even though I don't really eat fish.
I formally wanted to have an ass like Robert Wagner's.
That one sort of came true, which I think is ridiculous,
although now I'm old and it doesn't matter much.
I kind of, I formally wanted to be a secret agent,
I informally, now all the things I formally want, I also informally wanted.
I'm not sure why I have such a antipathy toward the formalization of
certain kinds of things. Perhaps I'm not really concerned about
their formalization, I'm concerned about the way that
cults utilize formalizations of principles
and wisdom
um
to capture
and abuse people
to disempower and blind them
by giving them the wrapping paper instead of the gift.
Yeah, I don't like that.
Although sometimes it can be very helpful, and this is hard to understand at
first glance, we'd like to have societies and
situations that are so fundamentally enlightened
that we just go, we just climb the ladder together beautifully and
successfully toward self-development, mutual development,
insight, skillfulness, awareness, wander, awe, play, joy,
humor, eros, all these things, we just
we just climb the ladder together and are constantly lifting each other
above positions previous or at least into
harmonious balance where health and vitality and rejuvenation
and resurrection are natural features of the situation, right? Of course we all
hope for this, but in our actual situation sometimes
we may, it may be useful to fail, right?
Talked about this before, the power, imagine a situation where
everything you do succeeds the first time
and so it requires very little effort and there's, it's going to be
extremely difficult to improve, right, to experience a gain
in skillfulness or ability or function.
In order for that to happen there has to be the
the possibility of making mistakes
and perhaps of pain and suffering, confusion, ignorance,
all these things. So it can be very useful, at least in theory
to
huh
to become enamored
of a cult.
I have
before and you know we join the cult, we are enchanted by it,
it's very compelling because suddenly we have
belonging, we have an experience of belonging that can be otherwise quite
difficult to
in our modern, in our common modern situations,
worst common denominator talk here, but in our common modern situations it's
going to be very difficult to find a coherent groups
that are doing something amazing and beautiful to belong with
and so this is part of why even though education is a kind of a
disaster, it's also very, you wouldn't necessarily just want to get rid of
schools, clearly one might want to
what, mediate, you know, positively mediate and
transform the existing institutions,
but the schools are very important because they give young people and the
teachers and others
the experience of belonging together and so to the cults
and so to the various
petals on the strange flower of fandom, right, musical groups,
films, sports teams, also the usually lethally,
in more ways than one, motivated
military cohorts and such, yes
belonging
and obviously we get all kinds of pandering around this
social media panders to this desire to belong
and delivers, you know, largely
counterfeit representations, right, we we steal the
the real thing is stolen, ground up, compromised,
essentially destroyed and then
we are sold a broad array of ever less rich
and powerful counterfeits
this is the common thing that happens a lot
in our modern culture
now when we come together with and for each other
and we forge intentional social contexts and cohorts,
pods, if you will, like a dolphin pod or a
primate pod or a whale pod, then we have both a kind of natural immunity
to these gambits and the capacity to lift each other out of them
or even to manipulate them from within, this is the rather co
this is the covert version of
the possibilities
of our human
sociality
and this can be done in various different kinds of ways
it can be done in rather serious ways
and it can also be done in more or less playful or
game-like ways
and these two can actually merge so that you can have
playful games that actually transform
or ameliorate the ear sats humanity and ear sats community
ear sats spirituality
that is so pervasive in our modern experience
it's not the only thing going on and when we're alone, when we're isolated, it may
seem like the entire context is just violations
and this is what leads people to terror, agony, self-harm,
suicide, what we think of as madness, which you know if you
madness is a fairly natural result of the constant exposure
to the kinds of double triple quadruple or
you know myriad sorts of binds
right where um that emerge in our experience
of the broad array of competing anti-cultures
anti-nations, anti-societies that uh that domin- you know corporations
that dominate our modern experience and concern
and they are terrible but they're not the only thing going on
and in order to you know it's not just that we discover
what's going on when we begin to form intentional
communal groups even if it's only for a short period of time see this is the
key we can get escape velocity immediately
from all of this in a small group with a shared intention to do so
and we can sustain that over time and give it a heartbeat
and that can even reproduce other other little groups
that bubble in and prosper even in the counterfeit
uh nightmares
that they arise from and perhaps against
um and out of the desire to
transcend these troubling situations
so there are forms of magic that don't require trades or soul selling and so
forth but are very powerful and some of them
are profoundly virtuous they are not
um composed for the sake of vengeance
this is very dangerous motivation generally speaking leads to
a lot of trouble in almost every case they are not war machines
they are not for personal primarily for personal gain
they may not be entirely selfless though they can be composed
under such circumstances
but they are resistant to capture
uh
by selfish manipulative or warlike motivations
and they can also be profoundly
um protective
healing
calming
nurturing nourishing
and these forms arise from an ache that i suspect we all come to human
incarnation with and it's an ache for the
it's an ache for the positive version of justice
which is the dissolution of injustices and their replacements
with virtues now again if once the either of these ideas become highly
explicit there's gonna be a lot of trouble
a lot of trouble most of the time if you're explicitly concerned with
virtue this tends to produce irony
if you're explicitly concerned with harm or vengeance or war you're gonna have
irony
cleansing bathing smudging
uh
maturing grounding getting your feet your bare feet on the surface of the
ground
surrounding you know going into nature going into the living waters of the
river the ocean the lake the stream
these are potent and powerful precursors to the
formation of the kinds of intentions that naturally
become uh that naturally influence without
dictating futures and transformations of situations
you know i was speaking with someone maybe about a week and a half ago
and i asked him if he had ever prayed and he said you know i i don't think i
ever really got the impression that something
was listening and that's a very rational response
sensible
why should we engage in activities whose effectiveness
we have no way to determine well you know that's one perspective
but i wonder if it ever occurred to him that whether or not
someone was listening
or something was listening the transformational effects
could be profound either way they could be profound
neither way they could be profound both ways
um they could be profound even if there was no way to understand
how or why they were in fact profound
because somehow our
behavior transforms our potential
and the fact or fiction of our explanations in many cases
either doesn't matter or can be very limiting
so yeah those are things to consider
you know we i heard once that some president perhaps it was
bush inaugurated a study of prayer
it's like attempting to study
uh i don't know something that cannot be
cannot be detected by the methods we would
ordinarily presume i heard this morning of an experiment
done to establish what's called the leisman barrier
in biology a feature of biology that is certainly wrong
and yet has been canon for a very long time in modern terms of modern
science and the experiment was absurdly stupid
and yet everyone supposed that it was one of the greatest biological
experiments that had ever been done well perhaps not everyone
it was very common to suppose this
um yeah so had people pray for sick people and so on
people who knew them and people who didn't and
apparently the study produced the result that the people who were prayed for
were actually less likely slightly less likely to recover
than those who who were not prayed for
experiments and rational thought and science are very powerful tools
their scope though is quite limited compared to
that which is right you could say that which is the case but that's different
from that that which is um
their scope is different from reality
the scope of rational thought is similar
in its limitations to the scope of the physical manipulation of objects
i can move hammers all i want
much of my experience
cannot be reasonably affected cannot be properly transformed or
successfully transformed by my manipulation of hammers
and if i should fall under the delusion
that my capacity to manipulate hammers is the only way for me
to achieve
true and valid belief
conceptual or procedural
insight understanding
then i'm going to be in a really bad situation
one one imagines
someone that
is a boatwright but specializes in the formation
of the skeletal precursors to the hull
and they think this is the only important thing the skeletal precursors
can't have a hull without these so
they only build skeletal you know they only build the frame
and the frame doesn't float and and they think
that they are an expert and that they know everything about boats because they
do the most important thing which is produce the frame
my presentation of the metaphor was a little sketchy there but uh
i think you get the idea this is similar to
overvaluant the overvaluing of rational frameworks models explanations
theory experiment and so on
when one does when we do experiments
we try very desperately to evict most of what's going on from the context so
that we can control
the resulting context and its variables well enough
to acquire deterministic knowledge
of cause effect futureial transformations
and this is a very compelling method
but it can also be blinding
in tests to determine whether things like telepathy exist they do i assure you
um i'm as sure of telepathy as i am of breathing
very few if any of the experiments
took a fundamental feature of telepathy into
the experimental context what is this feature
intimacy
deep mutual concern and awareness
which is naturally productive
of various forms of non-ordinary awareness and sensing
of the state needs thought concern desires of the other
natural between mothers who adore their young
newborn children um though it's not merely a matter of the
young and the newborns natural between dogs and cats
and their human companions probably other pets natural between certain
insects and humans
birds reptiles even so forth
but you know we hear well there's no evidence of nobody's written a paper
a paper about that there's nothing in the literature i remember one day i was
here at this lake talking with an ornithologist and i explained that by
careful observation i had determined how to sex
how to determine the physical gender of geese
the snow geese white cheeks the Canadian geese
canada geese i think they're called which by the way i'm pretty sure
isn't named after the country i think it's named after a man
whose last name was canada i think i think i heard someone saying this
they might have been having having their friend on but
yeah i i explained by careful observation over time because this is a
quest i undertook i realized the geese can tell for sure
each other's gender by by sight right and if they can tell we can tell but
uh in the literature it is claimed that it cannot be determined it can be
determined by behavior but not by appearance
and
i didn't believe that so i went on a quest it took me a few years
it wasn't until i met an old goose couple an older couple
which is very uncommon in nature because old geese don't survive
in nature but in cities they can and then in them the distinctions were
highlighted exaggerated and so i said to this guy i was like you know
there's there are ways to visually determine the gender of these birds and
he got very upset and literally said there's nothing in the
literature about that and i was like um how about we
just look at some birds together and let's see if we can do it nope
it's not the litter there's no evidence right
we hear this all the time there's no evidence of faith healing no evidence of
god no evidence of angels demons i would argue that facebook and
google are pretty strong evidence of demons not to mention
you know
many other bizarre features of our modern world
if you decide to not look for evidence or if you decide that previous
experiments not done by you uh explain for all eternity
what exists what doesn't what it doesn't doesn't do
what it can and cannot do then you have become theory blinded
right because in point of fact you know we
speak and think as if
that which has previously been established
is continuous and permanent
when there's no evidence of any permanent thing
and continuity is relative all right it's not concrete it's relative
and the nature of time itself can change the nature of light can change the
nature of perceivers can change does change
if you're dreaming you're still perceiving
so it's very important to be able to distinguish
between you know there might be stuff that's
nonsensical in a dangerous way that we should avoid
we should naturally avoid believing it okay
acting as if it's true on the other hand
life and thought our bodies our relationships as human beings are
fundamentally experimental
um the fact that there are concrete realities
uh
doesn't mean that all previously known
exemplars of fact are the concrete foundation of our existence
or our reliable guides to futurity
you know what uh nasim nikolas teleb calls black swans
which are previously unknown phenomena happen all the time the current
models of time space and such are all come from black swans
totally on it no one expected that einstein was going to come along and go
like you know i think this um
a distinction between space and time uh while
seems very obvious intuitive is wrong and then arcani hamed and others of his
came along and said you know this perspective that
time space isn't must be fundamental to all that's going on
not only is unlikely but can't be the case
black swans come
into our awareness
and obliterate previously dominant biases and when they do so they are
usually liberating we gain new degrees of freedom
insight wonder play ability function so
the findings of science theory and experiment are provisional
they will be overturned it's not they might be overturned they will be
overturned and so we should recognize that the
terrain ahead isn't the ignorant
you know
i'm not sure what to say i was a word i'm looking for
the crippling suppositional certitude
that oh we've already determined what a goose is
and now we know well i doubt it the fact is we don't know what anything is
we have highly provisional toys and when we exchange those for wonder and
curiosity passion insight something inside us
begins to die
you know what we have mostly as moderns
is not knowledge it's representation and representation
in language and concept
uh is deceptively powerful and it is this deception this
see here here is magic right here's magic here is transcendental
influence by which we can be captured and manipulated
what we have is something that replaces intimacy
with tokens words maps models hypotheses
because actual knowledge is intimate like kissing
and if you experience the in in flowing and in dwelling of this
knowledge it will not be like thinking it will be like
orgasm it will be like kissing it will be like
death it will be like birth
some of you may notice a radical transformation
in the vector of my
my illoc my my locution or illocution
but yes science is powerful but it is not the arbiter
of meaning identity purpose value
fact truth
and we see this kind of uh
refraction away from science in many domains of our
modern social experience the problem with that particular refraction is that
some of that is a weaponized sigh up
nations are experimenting with how to kill each other's populations
with information
and so we have the mixture of the truth of the danger for example of the
covid vaccines
with the intent to deceptively harm
populations right the um this is very common
unfortunately in our modern situation
so
all my father's life he thought he knew what a tree was
and then one day at the mirror pool here in this garden where i'm standing
i accidentally enchanted him and we sat on this bench where a woman is sitting
now and he began to have what might be
described as an emergence event
and he turned to me and he said we have to leave
i'm dying i'm going to become this tree and he was
quite he was simultaneously
um hello nice to see you today
he was simultaneously alarmed and ecstatic he had never had an experience
like this drugs were not involved he felt he was becoming the tree
and i tried to calm him i told him it'll be okay we can leave if we must
he said we have to go we have to leave and then a squirrel climbed up his
leg and up onto his shoulder and he said see see even the squirrel knows
i am a tree this is intimacy and trance can produce
the potential for modes of intimacy that thought
must extinguish speech is very similar
i was talking with someone the other day about their dreaming experience and
gosh who was it i'm trying to remember
whoever it was he said i don't think i remember speaking in a dream and i was
wildly unsurprised i mean i was partially surprised because most of us
think it's the keyword we think that we have the
experience of having conversations many of us have these
memory of an experience resembling conversation in
in dreaming and that part's true it resembles conversation
but as it moves more and more explicitly toward the semblance of speaking
the manifold that supports the dreaming is collapsing
the intimacy is disappearing one way to end an experience is to speak about it
think of two people passionately kissing
and one of them then uh for whatever bizarre reason of dissociative confusion
decides that the most important thing in this moment is to say something
the speech ends the experience language is deceptively weird in that
we think it gives us the power to communicate
it does but primarily in the layer of representations
which is not the same layer as experience and certainly not the same
layer as intimacy where in this mess is science
science is in our time at least demonic and when i was a child i wanted to
become a scientist because it seemed that these were the people
who best knew who had the most complete knowledge
of things being circumstances origins futures
and so forth and machines were very fascinating to me
because it was as if in my previous incarnations these things didn't exist
and now they do and they seemed quite impossible
even the thing like a zipper this is impossible
how much more impossible is a thing like a mouse
you know humans can compose a zipper they cannot compose a mouse
so you see this kind of representational knowledge is extremely dangerous
because it evicts us from what i would call
transcendent participation and that's where our actual spirit
our capacity to forge purposes beautiful noble and true and to embody and
enact them together arises not from knowledge
from participatory intimacy
you know we
because we are embodied humans
eventually one way or another most of us the last majority of us
have an experience that we call orgasm
and for some of us this happens in childhood and for others
it's in our teens and for some it might not be even until our adulthood
and there are more life phases than those ones as well
but there are experiences of intimacy that make what we think of as orgasm
seem trivial in comparison and these are four modes of intimacy
everyone's going like wait what did he just say that's not true
no it's true you can have there's a broad array of experiences that are
normally well they are very successfully inhibited in us moderns
and there's a broad array of similar modes of cognition
the use the sort of the reformation or the formation
of modes of awareness consciousness things that resemble thought and so forth
that are so different from everything we've ever imagined
and yet are natural to our kind of being our form our humanity
our animality our organism our organismality our beingness
there are modes of intimacy
so ecstatic that you would never trade them for an orgasm
and this is part of why we hear some mystics
singing the praises of what the ascetic path
the path of not indulge of non-indulgence
now the path of chastity or temperance
and you know dreaming really is very very profound
and in dreaming there can be modes of adoration and eros
that are vastly beyond what we are inclined to usually experience while
awake or beyond what seems accessible to to us
while awake in our life phase in our development
but what i'm trying to get at here is that this thing we call
orgasm it is in a sense
a
there's different ways to say this it's a repercussion of participatory
intimacy that can be physically produced
and since our our first experiences with it
are usually catalyzed by physical sensations
rhythms rhythmic pulsing rubbing so forth we should understand
that that is a lesser stasis a lesser exemplar
of something for which there is
uh a forest of superpositions above that
and when i was when i was a child and i was fascinated with science what i
didn't realize is that i had no way to understand
this although some people tried to say something
maybe this is why the problem ensued
there didn't seem to be anyone whose knowledge was deeper than
the knowledge of scientists but the knowledge of the poets
of the mystics of the philosophers of the adoring ones
this knowledge makes the powers of science
shrivel oh they are still mechanically powerful and
may in fact snuff our planet and our people
yes they are physically very powerful but where is the intimacy
it is that participatory intimacy that we hunger for
and when we hope not for justice
but for the diminution the
the transformative composting of injustices
it is this participatory intimacy
that we know we sense would thereafter obtain
and become
the water the many forms of waters in which
our hearts and histories and futures could then swim
we poor moderns have named nearly everything and thus evicted
all the named features and beings and relationships and situations
from much of our experience if not all of it
yeah
we have representational knowledge
miles deep how tragic for us
this is the that is the the alexandrian library of the skeletal
remains of what might have been understanding and insight
medicinal awareness transformative ecstatic participation
magic wonder play
all
virtue
walking in the botanical gardens here
even though this is a place curated by
my extremely confused at the group level species
the living beings here they form a a manifold
over the strange dead inside evictions that otherwise prevail as cities and
roads and shops and buildings and so forth
and they are ecstatic if we could change our way of being in time this
ecstasy would flow into and through and around and between
all the aspects of our being in such a way as to draw us
into transcendent visionary awareness
and i don't say this because i know it this isn't knowledge i'm
on the verge of experience so i'm on the verge of the experience of what i hear
suggest
we are not distinct in the ways our common thought
suppose
or create
and there are games afoot there are missions here so beautiful
that the entire history of language and knowledge
has nothing to do with them
there's no thing you can formally know
that's more interesting than the kiss of your beloved
the flavor of that food grown by your grandmother in her garden
on endless afternoons as she toiled to make the foods
the families would consume together
um mostly in distracted confusion
especially once the
once the invention of televisions began to become dominant
and think for a moment of what the television is replacing
yep there's a reason that thing is so compelling
was so compelling it's a reason why we have these screens
they are counterfeiting something and if you think just a little bit you will
see what they are counterfeiting and what it is is something resembling
group dreaming group telepathy group organized group
missioneering organized group and amnesis and this is what we must reach
for together if we are to retrieve the faculties
the ecstasies the beauty
of our origins and natures and potentials
and that's a mission I adore and do believe in
and if my humble speaking
can contribute then I will have lived this day in a way worthy of
my ancestors and their dreams my progeny and their dreams
which dreams must not be euthanized
my thought and language machine modernity war
prison-eering commerce tokenization representation eviction
there are many ferns here I've always loved the forms of the plants
insects are impossible the animals the organisms on this world
are fundamentally impossible if we could take off
the staggering burdens of representational cognition
ecstasy would naturally arise because we ourselves are and are surrounded by
infinite manifolds of impossibly beautiful wonder organism
origin spirit purpose the superposition from which the concept of beauty
is derived the living bubble of being history
and future and purpose
that naturally embodies up from the soil and down from the sky
like trees and rain ecstatic originary true vital
oh how I adore these organisms how confused I mostly am
when deprived of that fundamental participatory intimacy
which is true recognition
and explosive anemesis
thank you for joining me I'm so grateful to have this time
take a moment to like or comment or ask a question or share something personal
and this way you will help my humble efforts reach more
people may your ways be beautiful
your hearts be light and your relationships
exquisite
thank you for joining me I look forward to learning together again very soon
bye bye for now
