Hello, everybody.
Welcome.
It's Friday,
the 28th of June.
Sometimes time seems to flutter by
with uncharacteristic swiftness.
It's a warm and breezy day here.
I have lately been walking with my son quite a bit.
He's a rather insightful chap.
And problematically too intelligent for his own well-being.
Thankfully, at this phase of his life, most of his intelligence has turned toward making humorous comments.
He is very funny about this.
We've had a few adventures lately, mostly minor walking adventures.
But I noticed something that I might explore a bit here today.
It is that one of the most common inspirations for human speech,
catalysts for human speech turns out to be measurement.
And particularly, differentials in which it is apparent that some characteristic or quality has departed from expected norms.
Which, if you think about it, is a very strange motivation.
Since, in fact, normalness is a fiction.
And it's a fiction of the statistical mean, or whatever, right, like the average over the curve, or, you know, these kinds of things.
So the fact that something, wow, it's really windy today, or it's quite hot, and it's very cold, that food smells good.
It's just basically almost all of these, much of our comments and speech is initiated
by evaluative behavior that emerges from the noticing of a departure from norms.
And so it's quantitative, oh, there's a lot of this, oh, there's not very much of this.
Oh, that man has a big beard, or, you know, other anatomical features can excite the linguistic urge.
And yet, you know, the intelligent listener will notice that my concern is self-generating,
because it arises from noticing quantitatively what the origins of many comments, assertions, declarations, objections, and so forth are.
And mostly it's just humans arguing about the quantification of perspectival experience, sensorial experience.
And I find this very strange.
The degree to which this relatively singular concern is inclined to generate speaking, including the speaking I am now doing.
Because obviously, in case I haven't made it entirely clear, this perspective, or this awareness, arises from quantitative evaluations of what generally produces speech, what most commonly produces speech, and so forth.
So that's what I mean by self-generating.
And I'm not sure exactly why I find this fascinating.
I think part of what I find fascinating about it is that I had not become aware of it previously.
It's so blatantly obvious once one sees it, it's very difficult to unsee.
And maybe a lot of human relational behavior itself is fundamentally related to forming an evaluative milieu, cognitively, relationally, behaviorally, historically, futurially measurement.
State checking of any kind is measurement.
And we meet each other and we ask, how are you doing?
We are catalyzing measurement.
Now of course, when we ask each other about states and so forth,
the situation is that we will report on our state.
How are you feeling today?
What's on your mind?
Would you like to engage in some behavior or other?
What do you see?
What are you thinking?
Do you remember your dreams from last night or this morning?
What is your favorite ex?
Record, band, film, actor, actress, hero, historical personality, so forth.
We ask each other often about affinities and antipathies,
which generate those are profoundly involved in selecting both the criteria and the focus of our measurement behavior.
If I, for some reason, feel something, touch my clothing while I'm out, I will check to see what did it.
But where I was going is that I think we are inclined to expect that reportage, reporting on the results of state checking.
But what we are going to get is a relatively honest and or clear measurement or description of qualities or characteristics.
Problematically, consciousness is very strange stuff and its mode transforms when measurement is catalyzed, initiated, pursued.
And this is something that doctors probably very quickly learn.
That a person's reports of their feelings or health situations are very likely to transform under the observation of medical specialists.
You know, when we think about human sensitivity to observation, what we are actually thinking about is sensitivity to being measured.
Either the possibility of being measured, which is very commonly a part of our concern, awareness, transformations and so forth,
or the results of being measured, which is really what the fundamental concern appears to orbit.
Now, you know, I started out by noticing that while talking with my son, I would often comment on things, situations, something I'm seeing, experiencing.
Where, you know, that's a big one, that's a small one, there's less here than usual, there's more.
And it's, you know, it's the quantification of characteristics or qualities, it's measurement.
But think carefully about how fundamental measuring is to cognition, relation, behavior, condition and so forth.
The behavior that we moderns call shopping is an evolution of a broad array of behaviors.
Actually, it's not an evolution, it's probably a devolution of a broad array of behaviors that probably began with hunting, scouting,
gathering, gardening, overwatch, right, guarding.
In fact, what you will discover if you look carefully at the basic principle of measuring in cognition, you may discover that there isn't anything else going on.
In fact, the idea that something is going on is a result of measurement.
The things we call senses are actually modes of measurement.
When we shop, we're trying to obtain things, we make determinations about quality, price and so forth.
And there's a lot of, there's some philosophical locutions around, that would be really interesting if this is what I think it is.
It certainly looks like it might be.
I've been looking for shaka-pachis and then, it certainly is what I thought it might be.
And specifically looking for root piece shaka-pachis, which is what that man is playing.
I haven't seen one played in probably 30 years in public or anywhere.
I started looking for one a couple of days ago and now there's a man playing one.
Are these related? I have to use measurement to determine this, right?
Our whole idea, and once, okay, so then you have the problem of measuring measurement, which is essentially what I'm doing in this conversation.
I am folding the concept of measurement back upon itself, so as to reveal features that might, that we might be some of us sometimes,
because in order to determine whether something's always going on or sometimes going on, you have to measure it, you see.
Yeah, I hope you can see how incredibly problematical this is, or at least, if not problematical, fundamental.
In one sense, there isn't anything else going on and I'm not intending to even approach the concept of the meaning of measurement
in what we might think of as trans-physical systems, i.e. quantum mechanics and so forth.
The whole, there really isn't anything else going on, but what is it that's going on and why is measurement so fundamental?
You know, when we ask questions like, which is kind of absurd, we need to ask a better question than if a tree falls in the forest, is there a sound?
And the reason we need a better question is because, do we mean, does the phenomenon that humans point at with the word, English word sound, occur or not?
That's one question.
But another question is more related to the language.
Without a human there, you don't have the human idea of sound, so clearly the human thing isn't happening.
Now, I'm pretty sure the first question is the one that was intended by Bishop Berkeley or whoever it was that originally posed that particular question,
but Berkeley certainly wasn't the first to consider the problem, not by a long shot.
The Greeks must surely have gone far beyond such relatively trivial considerations in their attempts to understand the nature of existence, consciousness, being, incarnation, souls, humans, animals, nature and so forth.
Measurement.
The other night, we were out with my close friend for his birthday.
No, that's not true. I think it was the day before his birthday.
We were at an Indian restaurant in my neighborhood, and he was asking us kind of interviewee questions about, he had three questions that he was posing.
One was, what is your favorite book?
One was, what is the book that most profoundly influenced you?
And one was, if you could cause a single book to be read by everyone, what book would you select?
These are very interesting questions, and please feel free to address these questions in the comments.
I would be very grateful if you would do so.
Log in, you know, make a comment, answer the three questions.
What is your favorite book?
What is the book that most deeply influenced you or changed your life?
And what book might you ask everyone to recommend?
Now, we should all be aware that rarely are such measurements as explicit as we imagine.
When we are children, if someone asks us what is our favorite ice cream flavor, we are likely to immediately answer with a single flavor of ice cream.
Mine no longer exists.
There's actually a group dedicated to this on Facebook.
It is Baskin Robbins Mandarin Chocolate.
I don't necessarily like oranges and chocolate, but my actual favorite ice cream cone is a combination of two Baskin Robbins flavors, Mandarin chocolate and daiquiri.
This is the kind of measuring information that corporations, companies and advertisers are desperate to collect on us
because information like this can be used to psychographize us.
And if you want a good understanding of the dangers of psychography, you could read a book called Lexicon.
I can't recall the author's name at the moment, recent book, sci-fi.
Excellent metaphoric, you know, tangential highlighting of the dangers of psychography,
which is the classification of humans by tendencies, inclinations, vulnerabilities, desires, antipathies, reactivities, and affinities.
However, determining favorites is much more difficult if we become sophisticated
because we generally become aware that set and setting, circumstance, recent history, potential nearby futures,
all of these dramatically affect and transform our, not just our state, but our manifold of potential self efflorescence, developmental transformations,
likely near neighbors to present and nearby future potentials and so forth.
So, you know, humans tend to be in a multi-flowing way that doesn't much resemble a state.
And this is why it's very difficult for doctors and psychotherapists and so on to...
It's very delicate to try to understand what's going on with a human who is presenting to you
because it's effectively impossible to subtract your own influence.
This is why some therapists, particularly Lacanians, might simply have the person just start speaking and say nothing whatsoever during the entire session,
effectively acting as a statue.
Similarly, in science, the goal is to subtract one's influence over the experimental situation.
In a sense, in trying to ensure a kind of anti-measurement, but eventually we, of course, discover that when things are small enough,
it's impossible to subtract the influence imposed by observation.
And what is meant by small enough? Well, in this case, it's the plank length, but the smallness occurs long before the plank length.
If you really wanted to understand, for example, whether it was possible to have telepathic or cognitive, you know,
non-ordinary cognitive influence over living beings or situations, you might start with gnats, ants, houseflies,
creatures whose complete locality occurs at a scale far simpler and tinier and faster than yours.
It turns out that small usually equals fast, though you can flip the measuring protocols, if you want,
so that small equals slow in some unique ways and large equals fast.
Generally speaking, smaller is faster. What do I mean by that?
Well, you're probably not aware of trillions of transformations per second or per trillionth of a second happening in your metabolism.
At your scale, a meaningful event has to have a fairly long temporal arc for you to become aware of it consciously.
Conscious awareness is probably overrated. Our cells are doing unimaginable numbers of, I don't know if we could say intentional,
but successful metabolic transformations per second.
And when I say unimaginable, I mean it to track the transformations of a single cell over a single second.
As I understand it would require more computing power than the entire history of human thought and computation.
So they're fast, right? Insects tend to have very short lifespans, smaller creatures live faster.
If a lifespan is the measure of a temporality, then we can see, for example, that the 24-hour lifespan, say a mayfly,
is radically different from the 70 now seem to be probably 50 or less year lifespan of a human, average human.
Average, of course.
And then we get to the problem of generalizations, averaging, means, and so forth.
So we have this word in English, the word remarkable, which we might understand to mean catalytic of remarking.
Or...
Are these passion fruit?
Are they? I don't know.
Very spiky.
See, there's that thing I'm quantifying like, these are very spiky.
So remarkable essentially means to depart from the ordinary in such a fashion as to initiate speech, speaking, declaration, all these things, right?
So variance, right, turns out to be really fundamentally important to everything about being human, thought, speaking, consciousness, awareness, and so forth.
Now notice how these features of cognition and thought undergo the most radical forms of transformation within the experiences that we call dreaming.
And not entirely dissimilarly, but very differently, under the effects of various modes of intoxication.
I think few of us really take seriously this... the toxic phoneme in intoxication.
We forget, because we are not particularly historically minded, the relative origin that brings these drugs,
we call them, that differentiates them from poisons.
Now most pharmacologists know that drugs are poisons, and what makes them medicinal isn't some quality in the substance per se,
as much as it is a combination of qualities in the substance and titration,
which is the measurement of the amount of the substance introduced to the body over a specific span of time.
By limiting the amount, you may get euphoria, medicinal properties, healing properties, or comfort.
There's various kinds of properties, right, sedatives, stimulants, lots of others, we could make the whole list, it's not really necessary.
But what determines the sort of the qualities experienced by the quote, patient unquote,
is both the characteristics of the substance and the characteristics emergent from titrating the substance over time,
limiting the amount introduced to the body over time.
And most of these substances, if you don't limit the amount over time, what you end up getting is death.
Why are the botanical gardens closed today?
It's Friday.
Let's find out.
By the way, you can see that I had no plan really to go into the botanical gardens, but are they actually closed in midday in June?
I don't see anyone in there.
Closed due to coyote activity?
Okay, that's absurd.
I very much doubt that the gardens are closed due to coyote activity.
I think the gardens are closed because they intend to assassinate coyotes, murder them, and probably children and the mothers.
There's no way that the gardens are closed due to coyote activity.
They're closed due to human activity, against coyotes, almost certainly.
You see, language itself is an act of measuring, right?
What they're saying is there's too much coyote activity, but in fact what's really going on is that the human reactivity has risen to such a frenzy
that a community asset, which some people have traveled thousands of miles to see on this day in history, is closed.
There is zero danger to humans from coyotes.
Let's be very clear about this.
None.
No danger whatsoever.
Coyotes know to stay away from humans.
The problem is more one of management and or...
You know, the coyotes are not supposed to be being observed, is the problem actually?
If coyotes are frequently observed, then the humans collapse into a bizarre, omnicidal frenzy in which coyotes have to be killed.
According to some, I don't know, what?
According to what?
Well, this is where the problem ensues.
So, we were out the other night with my roommate, Michael.
He's a very brilliant, creative young man.
He's a mod on RUFOs on Reddit and also on RCollapse, and built the wikis for both of those.
As well as the websites of Jacques Vallée and others.
When I asked him what his favorite...
I don't know if it was his favorite book.
Maybe his favorite book.
He said...
A book called The Most Dangerous Superstition.
And I thought, that's a fascinating title.
I wonder what the most dangerous superstition turns out to be.
You can see the measuring there.
First you ask what's your favorite, so there's some measuring going on.
You go over the whole history of books that come to mind in the moment.
And then you select one that stands out a lot somehow.
And you reiterate the language of its title, which is a pretty weird thing to do when you think about it.
It doesn't help you understand what the content really is.
It might maybe help you understand a little bit of what the topic is.
So The Most Dangerous Superstition turns out to orbit.
And I haven't read this book yet, though I think it's very much worth reading.
And I strongly recommend it to anyone interested.
It turns out to be that there's anything resembling authority.
Now that is a mind blowing.
That is a mind blowing indication.
Very mind blowing.
Because everything that we moderns do is profoundly mediated by the supposition
or the response to the possibility of or the direct experience of authority.
Even our own minds, they function by a series of steps in which authorization is taking place.
A cascade of authorization sequences is really what cognition becomes.
It isn't like that when we're children, something very different is going on.
It isn't like that when we are dreaming, something very different is going on.
But while we are adults, this is most of what is going on that we call thinking.
Let that sit for a minute in your consciousness.
What are your thoughts?
Perhaps five years ago.
I have a single event on my calendar.
One. It's only one. Every there on my phone. Just one.
I mean maybe I've put one or two on there briefly since then.
There's a single event on my calendar.
Which is one afternoon at this precise time, 3 p.m.
Five, six, seven years ago I was walking in the concourse where I am now between the two museums.
And I went to one of the two remaining tunnels here.
There used to be three.
Were there four? No.
One of them has disappeared into a parking garage. Thankfully two more remain.
There's actually a third one in front of one of the two that remains.
Just further toward brought the north.
But yeah, in one of these tunnels there was a man who had set up with his tablet on a music stand.
And he was singing acapella, ancient music.
And it was one of the most beautiful things I have ever heard in my life.
I used to sing some things similar to what he was singing very long ago.
I went into the tunnel where I do sometimes sing myself very unskillfully compared to him.
If comparisons, right, are the important thing.
Because if comparisons are the important thing, we're not going to make music.
We're not going to learn to drive a car. We're not going to learn to ride a bike.
We're not going to learn at all because there's always going to be people
who are excellent at what we are mediocre at if we can do the thing at all.
So yeah, there's a calendar item.
3pm Friday, which relates to this event.
Who knows how long ago to remind myself to go back there and see if he was there again.
As I am doing now.
I have only done it maybe two or three times since then.
But the item remains on my calendar.
Oh
Oh
Yeah
Oh
Oh
Oh
He's not here.
I have never seen him again.
Often when I've met someone arbitrarily who was who had a profound effect on me.
I deeply regretted almost immediately not getting their contact info.
Can we just be in touch?
Because you're doing something that's beyond, it's outside the normal measurements.
And it really is affecting me and I feel a resonance with that.
I feel the gravity, the gravitic pull. I want to know this.
I want to be this together with you.
And so often, you know, we just meet.
There's some sort of a, what communication arises between us and then we depart.
And there's something beautiful about the transience of such situations and relationships.
Very beautiful.
But it's too easy for us moderns for our lives to become a kind of a desert of meaningful roles and activities, relations and behaviors.
And so it's important sometimes to not merely appreciate the moment but reach out across the gulf and recognize beauty
and developmental momentum and efflorescence and joy, wonder, awe, play.
And make a connection that lasts.
However, temporally limited are human lifespans, maybe.
At least in this one body.
Time, calendars, schedules, all measurements.
But what I was talking about earlier was authorization.
And the book that Michael recommended is a complex assault on the idea that there's anything resembling extrinsic authority,
which is, of course, the origin of the desire, the origin of the motivations for surveillance,
prison-eering, war, religion, politics and so forth.
All of these are authorization gambits.
And it turns out that human cognition spins on a single axis.
And it is this axis.
If the point on which the gyroscope is spinning is authorization,
then the circumference of its spin element is measurement.
So these two fundamental principles will pay profound dividends.
Should we become willing and curious in our explorations of their natures, features,
and particularly how we can modulate them, or even suspend them.
Because the suspension of either of these two things, authorization, right, which is sort of the idea of rebellion,
but rebellion tends to collapse ironically on its own, origins by explicitly opposing something, right,
which isn't actually freedom from it.
If you explicitly oppose something, and let's face it, there's some good things to explicitly oppose.
It's not like you should never do this.
But we should be very aware that when we explicitly oppose something, for example, the anti-war movement, right,
it doesn't really have the effect that we thought it would in most cases.
And in fact, we're sort of making war on the idea of war and so on.
So there's the problematical potential for ironic inversion when we explicitly oppose things.
Again, doesn't mean there's no useful, you know, if I see somebody hitting their child in the face,
I'm going to try to get in the way, well, I'm going to try to intervene somehow, you know.
That was a dumb example, but it does happen, or even just hitting their child at all.
Not to police other people's behavior, but in some cases, there are situations in which I will begin to depart from the principles of non-interference.
Many of those cases are cases in which I feel triggered and thus become reactive.
And some of those cases, like the other day, my son and I were walking and there was a couple young men sitting on a bench
and clearly one of them was a graphic artist and he'd been drawing and there's a notebook.
And I just stopped and I said, can I? Is it okay if I just look at that for a moment? That's amazing.
That's beautiful. What you're doing there is just exquisitely beautiful.
And he was very excited, you know, it was good.
If he had said no and had sort of retracted or pulled away, I'd have honored that.
But I wanted to see and praise and be excited together with him about his art.
Just one of the reasons I live in this ridiculous, nonsensical city.
For the sake of art.
To what do we object?
I certainly object to the noise of that machine.
It sounds like a terrifying version of the lawnmower.
And I am attracted inversely to the music of the birdsong
and the beauty of this old tree and its companions.
I've long endured here in Shakespeare Garden
where I learned my Tai Chi form from Paul Taylor and Guillaume d'Italian De.
This scent is pulled in the cedar tree.
This portal, this living portal.
And I am affine to it, to this scent.
And indeed this tree.
I may return one more time to that tunnel
in case by some strange quirk of fate
the man is there singing.
And I could introduce myself
and understand where he studies and what he studies
and with whom he sings and for whom he sings.
Measurement. Authorization. Perspective. Intention. Motivation. Beauty.
