Hello, everyone.
Walking around in the city I live in, in the evening, little, what, I guess we're inside
a rush hour maybe? Time. I think nearly all the things that humans refer to with language
are actually nothing like what the language implies they are, unless we take the language
very superficially such that we know, for example, that the token tree refers to, I
point to a tree and say tree to someone like you. That stuff works. It's functional. And
that's the basis of representational cognition and not actually the primary purpose of language.
In a way, if we're to try to understand the primary purpose of language, one of the first
things that comes to mind for me, and this is without having thought about it for more
than 10 seconds, it's primarily to structure behavior. The only reason to have a token
to point at a tree with is if we wish to draw attention to something, and it's pretty utilitarian
from there. We draw attention because we hope or need or intend to structure behavior of
others and ourselves. And that's not what I usually think. What I usually think is actually
one of the things I was thinking just before I started recording this, and thank you for
bearing with me through the passing of the train, what I usually think is, oh my God,
why are animals like us this strange? Why are we weirder than anime? Far stranger than
any of our representations, fashion, sport, war, porn, you name it. We are far weirder
than anything we produce, and we create and maintain like a 19 story building of different
layers of representations on top of reality. And we do this all the time and think of it
as de rigure. This is how it is to be ordinary. This is how it is to be human. This is what
we do. The contexts in which we emerge, you know, we're our journey beginning to some
degree with our parents, but also with the origin of time space and the galaxy and the
solar system, the earth and all of this. But as I'm walking around right now, the human
animals, they're like straight up science fiction. They're wearing layers of representations.
If you look, if you came to the earth from another world, perhaps if you had seen many
worlds, a number of them would have something resembling the position that humans occupy
presently in the biosphere. I'm not sure. I suspect this to be so, though. And I usually
think as though it is that there are many other worlds where there is one or possibly evolutionary
biologists will say no, not possible, but one or two or perhaps three distinct forms
of representational cognitive. And by this, I mean formally representational, right? They
have an abstract language and so on. It's funny, all of the people, I mean, it's very
beautiful to see the humans. But it's also very strange because we're really deeply physically
weird. Our behavior is not natural. We behave primarily according to complex layered signaling
arrays, some foundational, some superficial, that from one dimension in consciousness, we could be
perceived to follow just like ants follow pheromone trails. From one perspective in consciousness,
you can focus on the confluence of the layers, the representational layers that instruct the
thought and behavior, perception, and relation of us humans. And one of the foundational questions
for me is, is this bird injured or is it just hungry?
Yeah, that wing's not folding right, is it? The bird's been
injured, you know.
So one of the foundational questions kind of goes to the question of the existence of evil.
Did we fuck this up this badly ourselves? Is this all us? Is it all on us? Is there some
feature of the universe or biology absent? All possibilities of metaphysical,
extraterrestrial, or some non-human intelligence acting on us?
Where is the flaw in the beautiful crystal of our precious and tragic humanity?
I've got an escort of ravens at present and I'm sure that walking down the street,
people would think like, is this guy taking his birds for a walk? Because they're actually just,
for a while there, they're just, you know, they're doing what comes naturally to them.
So let's go back to this layer.
Dear and Brown is, fundamentally, what I would say is that he's,
he specializes in structuring human perception.
Intentionally, forging it into shapes he can easily manipulate to grand effect.
And I assure you that when he watches behavior of humans around him,
he has thoroughly simulated both the two perspectives that rarely occur to us ordinary folks
to think about. One is the opportunity to manipulate, confuse, take advantage of,
so forth, that a criminal might have. He has a criminal's, he can definitely adopt a criminal's
perspective, a very sophisticated criminal's perspective, and he has done so on purpose,
on film previously. But he has this other, I mean he's got a number of lenses operating at the
same time. He can see what is structuring, he can see how profoundly the humans around him,
their behavior is structured without them being aware of it. I am on a walk, I am in the city.
Because I am in the city, where I will walk is largely constrained
by physical human infrastructure. I will walk along one of three streets to get to,
to get into the vicinity of X.
There will be traffic on those streets. It is a certain time of day, the city's
a thriving map of little train tracks that humans go back and forth across all the time,
every day, on a schedule. If you happen to see someone at the corner of
you know Parnassus and Cole on Tuesday at 6.23 pm, there's a very good chance you will see them
there on Wednesday. And an even better chance that you'll see them there on the next Tuesday,
right around 6.20 pm. We are following in consciousness and behavior an array of protocols
that are so constrictive that if we could properly perceive them from outside them,
we would see that most of our liberty is missing in action most of the time.
In other words, available accessible liberty, cognitive liberty, liberty of actual identity,
of role, of meaningful relation, of play, of creativity, all of these things, right? They are
mostly locked down. And the humans we call artists and sometimes performers and so on,
they are trying to remind us of a liberty we ourselves may rarely experience if we do not
engage in creative thought and behavior and play with other humans and for other humans and so
forth and for other beings. The artist who paints the tree is not merely painting a tree for humans,
though rational people might suppose as much. It's a very complex situation, actually.
Right now my belly is resting against a tree I adore, a tree I've long known
for the existence of whom I am profoundly happy.
We teach our children, our children learn from us by observing us.
I love the sound of other human languages. I love living in a place where I hear many of them.
Even though most of the languages similarly trap our minds,
they also provide that against which our intelligence may press to gain strength
for a leap beyond representational cognition. And in case it isn't obvious,
the moments of glory in sports or in film or in art, the expressions of profound
superhuman achievement, but also
something divine flowing into something from beyond, something transcendental to
all of human experience flowing into a moment or an artifact such as, for example, a handmade piano.
Or, more simply, a pot, a clay, something we've made from clay.
But I am here thinking of things made by hand. One could argue, well, everything's made by hand
because machines are made by hand. Not the same thing. I get the idea. I get the comparison.
Not the same thing. So, you know, I'm walking on paths. They're paved. I could try to select
the non-paved paths. When in the gardens, one of my friends prefers to do that. I don't have a problem.
But through the city, it's going to be tough to do that. And what I'm suggesting is that there's
15 layers of similar behavior going on in our cognition all day every day. We're,
you know, we think we have freedom of thought. What we have is you can choose between these
train tracks or those ones. Both will cost you dearly. Neither will deliver you to a meaningful
destination most of the time. Occasional, you might squeeze out an occasional
win, which would mean liberty, insight.
Strange. Fountain is acting very weird, blue.
Films like Koyana Scotsi gave us a visual representation
of human behavior, of, you know, localizations of human behavior over time.
And we could see from that perspective, very clearly, that generally speaking, the humans are
following something quite explicitly, right? However, unique the individual participation,
unique or normative, right? The individual's participation, maybe.
You know, I like to think that,
yeah, see that, that's the actually the whole problem right there. I like to think.
The body is an energetic system
for that system. Physical relation is intelligent and intelligible. Cognition,
which you could think of as co-ignition,
is different.
I'm not sure that the mind, whatever that might, we might decide that means,
and that's the kind of word that you really should, I really should take time to define,
unless I'm going to be casual about it, about the topic, which for the moment I will be.
The mind may or may not.
I wouldn't be surprised to discover that humans have the ability to move
the location, the perceived or considered location of the mind around in the body.
Techniques such as focusing, TM, there's an actual discipline called focusing.
Employ, right? Move the mind around in the body, what is felt there,
can be very powerful experience. Now, does that mean that the mind actually leaves the brain? Well,
I'm not sure it's situated there to begin with, and lots of other people aren't either.
What we think of as waking world awareness seems to have something to do with the brain,
such that if, for some reason, that shuts off, waking awareness often but not always ceases.
In this case, we certainly don't want to project the often as the only. This is what happens in
so much of human cognition, and part of why we follow these little train tracks around in
thought. I began to say that I like to think, and it wasn't my goal to remark on my affinity
for cogitation, rather it was my goal to say that I like to think I'm capable of seeing
outside some of the cages that we build and maintain and obey together,
and I also like to think that I don't just do that as a
some kind of ironic exercise of some proficiency I may or may not have,
or may or may not have some degree of.
No, I like to think that I engage that way,
because I want to get outside the cage together,
and it's not my goal to cause depression or despair by painting the bars more clearly,
or the structure more clearly, rather my dearest dream is to engineer the kind of a jailbreak
that the children inside us would come alive within, and that all of our ancestors and companions,
companion intelligences would cheer for.
Our species is laboring under the strange necessity of our prosthetic
compulsions.
You know, there's a couple of animals in nature.
There are very few animals in nature that do anything like what we do prosthetically.
And I guess if we were to survey many worlds and we saw the development of representational
cognitive species, most of them would probably eventually develop an appendage capable of
manipulating something like a tool with a fine degree of accuracy, though I can imagine that
animals can adapt really well so that even if you can't use a tool with a great degree of accuracy,
you can still probably manage to produce many different kinds of tools and prostheses.
One imagines a creature that, for example,
doesn't have enough dexterity to get the screwdriver into the slot in the screw,
but there are ways around that problem.
You can change the prosthesis so that it takes care of that,
or you can reforge it entirely so there's no slot.
But I guess my point here is just how astonishingly prosthetic our species is.
And I like to hope that I could find a way to take us out of the cages that we
obey, but in order to do that I want us to see them.
Like perhaps a non-human would see them, actually.
It's true that I identify as human, but only partly, and I think the much faster part of me
isn't human. And I suspect that many people, if they felt safe and had the luxury of reflecting
on this matter much, they would probably, there would be broad consensus about this
not merely human thing.
I don't intend to start a brand, though someone probably will.
It's always a race to the bottom for as long as products are part of the infrastructure
that we tend to obey as moderns.
It's an infinitely self-accelerating race to ever-new lows.
As the towering irony of modernity approaches the tipping point, and that actually does tip,
but it tips into dimensions we might not be paying attention to.
It could be that the nature of apocalypse is little mini-apocalypse all over before a big one comes.
You might think of some sort of gambling situation where
the gamblers decide not to bet on who gets elected president.
In fact, they just take all bets off the table.
I feel honestly inside myself, and perhaps this is a personal thing, but it's surely
not merely a personal thing. Our species is living on borrowed time literally,
and we borrowed it from the ecologies, from their health. We borrowed it from the thing
we would absolutely need more than ever in our history.
At this particular time,
our species has the strange capacity to dispose of all available water
for frivolous purposes right before a drought.
There are many people who do not do this. This is not a feature of the Bedouins who
live in the Sahara Desert, for example. In fact, such people are probably intimately,
generally speaking, they're probably intimately aware of their dependence on each other
for life, soul, food, water, shelter, protection, all kinds of things.
So they function as a single organism with unique members inside it or something.
The one thing you will never see them doing, probably, is anything resembling the
wanton waste of water. But I meant, I didn't just mean the water, I meant that
whatever the hell is going on around us at this moment, and I strongly suspect it's the recursion
of a vast collection of misbehaviors over long periods of time by our species at the group level.
Whatever the hell is going on, there's weather, there's solar weather, there's all kinds of layers
of weather, not just the planetary stuff. And you know, if before a significant storm,
you burn up all your boats to, I don't know what, defect to make booze with.
Then when the storms come, no one will be able to float.
The humans do follow something, you know, our technologies often reflect something we are
doing inside our own minds. And if you look at a circuit board, and think carefully about your
own behavior much of the time, you'll find a powerful resemblance there, most likely.
As if,
when we compose material objects technologically, it's not that we resemble the objects,
right? The precedence is on us. The objects resemble things we do inside and relationally.
But yeah, it's as if there's a couple layers, you know, our circuit boards are often multi-layered
these days. So yeah, what I'm talking about is the structure in those layers,
that the humans obey unconsciously until and unless they are given a taste of something outside it,
not merely told about it. If you give them a taste of life beyond the circuit board,
and mind beyond the circuit board, and behavior outside the circuit board,
identity outside the catalog that we are presented with by human culture,
they usually want a lot more. I know I do. Any glimpse I've ever gotten,
you know, Jorge Luis Borges, B-O-R-G-E-S, he wrote some brilliantly
mesmeric fiction. He's someone who's fascinated with and capable of expressing very artfully
some of the perspectives that are available metacognitively. So
he imagines, for example,
perhaps a book
that contains all books in a library that contains all the libraries, or where each book is one of
the libraries. And the actual nature of what's going on in the origin place of our intelligence
resembles that, but not incoherently. It recursively restructures itself moment to moment to produce
coherent transit between states. And what we're trying to do with language is mostly structure
human behavior. But in order for us to remain intelligent under the influence of such a force,
we must intelligently unstructure the language too. There's got to be
something that pushes back and even decomposes the complex structured fossilizations of thought and
consciousness, ideation, and relational games like courtrooms or wars that we inherit when we take
up a human language such as French or Portuguese. The Asian languages which I cannot speak
confidently about are different.
They more closely resemble glyphs. They are, in many cases, glyphs.
Or what in, I think, China and Japan are called ideograms, or actually we call them ideograms.
Those are not, those are different than words because their connotation web
is physically specific, an ideogram, right? Its connotation web is physically specific,
and parts of its connotation web resemble its shape. I want you to think very carefully about
that property and the difference in an alphabet that isn't doing that and a system of ideograms that
does. Ideally what you'd probably want is both and a third thing that could mix them perhaps.
But if you had to pick between them and you wanted to become intelligent,
you would pick the ideograms for certain. The content, the richness of them,
is staggering compared to the standing impoverishment of
the English alphabet. Now it turns out that the English alphabet actually has similar qualities.
We just don't teach them to our children, and we don't remind each other of them, so they are forgotten.
But you will never match the library of meanings available to the linguistic imagination that
Chinese, Japanese, or other Asian languages create.
It may be that the alphabets, the modern alphabets, will go away too. I'm not sure. It's conceivable.
English will fade. One thing I can envision is a sort of meta-language that's a combination of
ideograms, geometric principles, and mathematical principles, which I'm fairly sure is probably
the common situation among advanced non-human intelligences. If they have any need of
symbols at all, if they have any need to, which they may not, they would probably have something
like meta-language. And it could, I think it's very likely actually, that certain terrestrial
organisms are employing something resembling a meta-language relationally, and perhaps even physically.
If you could imagine a language that would at once give you the ability to
communicate a record-structured cognition,
while at the same time conveying
conveying access to the position above where it is formed, so that along with the content,
it conveys the principles of its own formation. This would be like English including,
crazy thing as it probably does this, we just can't see it usually,
including complex actionable information about its own origins, structure,
and escape routes. How do you go above this?
Now, I would argue that English does contain that, but ideogrammatic languages
like Egyptian, Hebrew, maybe the Aztec stuff,
they have such a radically,
they have multiple domains of connotative content, associative content,
right? So that if you see, again, I can't speak confidently about this, but if you see
the ideogram for a specific fruit, maybe it's a plum,
it would have many associations, the form of the ideogram will have some associations,
probably, and there's an intelligence behind that, right? There's like
the same way that a large language model after observing many, many, many instances of humans,
not humans, but of linguistic records would get a blurry idea what H is. It doesn't get,
in English, the letter H, right? It doesn't get,
if Gemini, Google's AI experiment, can produce images,
it's sort of prohibited from producing images of people for the moment,
but it can produce images of known, you know, referable objects, but if you ask it to produce
an image of a letter, it can't do it. Oh my God, I'm having a complex
deja vu experience,
and it's not that it can never do it, it's that it often fails.
If you ask it to just type the letter H back to you, it can hack that, can do that.
That's just text, but if you ask it to image an H, make a picture of an H,
I think it's going to have a problem, at least for the moment,
and there's lots of interesting reasons why that might be fascinating, and also will probably change soon.
Yeah, imagine a language that teaches you about its structuring principles
with every use in a way that you can be conscious of, while also delivering a superposition
above those principles so that you can discover better ones every time you use language at all.
An actually intelligent species would probably make language like that, because if they don't,
I would argue, you know, the way a science fiction author might, they're not going to be
intelligent for long, and consciousness itself may end up having some
hmm, in fact it's probably impossible that it doesn't.
I guess what I'm trying to say is that it seems likely that
consciousness and language are both children of a similar origin, right, and so they mutually bear
the imprint of this origin in their structure,
but I still want to know, and I mean I have some sketches and ideas and such,
but I really want to know more or less definitively, did the humans get this confused by themselves,
or did they have help, right, how did they get this weird, and
my strong suspicion,
I mean look, if we had help, it's either active or passive,
mostly, and then mostly intentional or non, so passive help would mean something went away,
right, you can imagine the wild child lost in the wilderness at four, never recovered,
you know, unrecovered until, you know, 14, 15, raised by dogs and such.
What happens? Can they be civilized once they come back? No, it turns out that humans,
like other organisms, go through life phases, and some of those phases are amenable to cognitive
imprinting, and most of those tend to, well it's very complicated, it's certainly not simple.
There's lots of sort of bonus questions in this area. There's Easter eggs hidden inside
the way we formulate questions. In fact, the prescient reformulation of the question
is often vastly more useful than an answer. Most of representational cognition as it exists on
Earth today can be divided sort of into three categories. The first is the stuff that's
basically known, that's a fork, right, concrete, simple reference to familiar objects or symmetries
or situations, but like the assumption of noun-ness, that's almost certainly wrong,
so you can learn a great deal by simply thinking that identity is more about verbs than it is about
nouns, and that relation and so forth, right. There are fundamental delusions underlying much
of how we are trained to think, particularly in a situation where, you know, profit, like motivations
that are fundamentally wrong, underlie, you know, the continents of human cognition.
There's these fault lines everywhere
that are formed of delusions that become doctrinal, mostly due to the intention
to present humans as the only game in town, the smart animal, a woe be unto us for the ironic,
the cascades of ironic apocalypse that emerge from that kind of activity, because the basis,
the fundamental basis within which we behave is hypersensitive, intimately relationship
sensitive, relational, and almost certainly transcendent, so
what you really don't want to do is make turbulence,
make the wrong kinds of turbulence in the waters from which your own mind
is emerging moment to moment, and that's precisely what the humans pretty much are up to.
We probably don't need anything resembling the degree of prosthesis we practice to
survive in nature, but if we're not extremely careful, and we won't be,
because there's nothing guiding the wee, that wee thing is literally like a headless horseman.
So it's just going to drive the horse
everywhere.
At all at once.
A moment.
You know, when I was developing a mind, the concept of computer programming
had begun to trickle into the layer
in which I was developing to the degree that I became fascinated with the concept.
Oh no, the terrible opposite of music again.
If only I could hear this far less frequently, then I have to.
Yeah, it's kind of mind-wrecking.
So yeah, the idea of programming languages was becoming, you know, a new way,
a new skill, a new way of being, a new way of life, and I learned a couple.
I was a little bit handicapped by my lack of a formal mathematical education,
but not catastrophically so, and I learned a lot about math by learning the program.
Programming, and I'm certainly not recommending it at the moment,
that skill could be on its last legs conceivably. I'm not really sure yet
due to the onset of large language models and so on,
but programming was a behavior that one could do
that would generate a direct encounter with metal language.
This is language that causes events, right?
Remember I said earlier that one of the most important features of language
is that it structures human behavior?
So I want you to imagine for a moment what is it that is meta to programming languages,
but resembles them in the sense that it structures biology, cognition,
all of these things around us. It's not,
it's neither purely formal nor is it purely informal. It's a mix of formal and informal
strategies of different kinds perhaps, but actually I don't know what it is to be very clear.
I can imagine things about it, but it does seem to exist.
Those who may make some claim often of a metaphysical nature,
they have seen into the essence of things,
I will, it is not uncommon to hear from such people, some of them mad, some not,
some of them absolutely lucid,
that it's as if there's a language above language that is itself intelligent.
Like, imagine symbols that were themselves intelligent and not merely intelligible.
In the interim, I was in a restaurant preparing to pick some food up and I was listening to
three men discussing a chapter from one of Ibn Arabi's books,
the name of which I cannot easily recall as it is not in a language that I speak, so
I would have to remember it syllabically rather than linguistically.
But they were talking about Arabic and as a language and trying the complexity
of any attempt to understand the kind of writing that Arabic produced.
And certainly what they are implying is that it is a complex array of metalinguistic
simultaneities.
Its surface looks like ordinary language, but it's got like seven other layers
because in Arabic, as in Hebrew and Aramaic, you have the incredible sophistication.
There must have been some other language common to all those people, but
the incredible sophistication of the alphabet by itself
is profound because the letters have meanings
and more complicated still the letters have spellings.
So in Hebrew, for example, I know enough to know this,
al-af is the letter al-af, so it begins with itself
as perhaps nearly all of the letters do in Hebrew, although I haven't examined that formally.
al-af lamed peh
and it's only very slight, it's basically the same in Arabic.
And al-af has a number of imagistic associations or form associations, for example, ox as in oxen.
al-af
Each of the Hebrew letters has that, each of the Hebrew letters also has four,
at least four numbers associated with it,
which I will not here explain, but you can easily discover through some research.
Now, English is based on these
chunks, which we can call by various names, phonemes perhaps.
Most of these chunks were borrowed from other languages such as Greek and Latin,
but in Hebrew or Aramaic or Arabic, there's no such borrowing, it is what it says.
In a way.
And the words are based on what are often referred to as trichonsonontal roots.
These are a collection of three consonants brought to life, we might say, by the inclusion of
specific vowels, the motion or spirit energy letters, which for a long time weren't written.
Now that's a personal, the spirit energy letters is more of a personal gloss on what I was shown
about these languages long ago, but as you can imagine, each of the trichonsonontal roots,
and they can also be understood as biconsonontal, there are simply two consonants there,
and the third one is we might think a later addition.
These roots are not necessarily themselves in the words all the time, some of them are unused.
All right, there are some roots which are not, I believe, and I'm not a scholar,
there are some roots which are not actually used in words. What is their function?
Hmm.
The languages of this type are not merely complexly connotative.
They are elusive, not EL, AL. They allude to and imply
complex relationships between features of identity, origin,
nature, structure, homonomy, synonymy, punning, all of the peculiar figures that are possible
in a spoken language.
So, their languages are very different from ours and are, in a sense,
metalinguistic to the relatively crude and perhaps seemingly primitive
resemblance, you know, resemblances of function and meaning in English.
And it's possible for a skillful author in one of those languages
to employ incredible sophistication of figures of speech.
In a sense, from one perspective, the Quran is not merely
hmm, a religious text, or quote the word of God, unquote, or the words of the Prophet.
It's also, it's doing the thing I was talking about before, in a sense.
It's, wow, okay. Sorry about that. I wasn't expecting that.
It's encoding,
instructively encoding how the language is to be used and understood. It's a little bit
metalinguistic as a document. One might think of it as not merely the primer for the proper use
and speech of Arabic, but that to which all Arabic speaking and writing is compared.
And since it has, since there's the central codex, right, there's no such thing in English.
The closest thing in English might be the Bible, but the Bible doesn't have the same
breadth of authority or prescription
showing how to speak that the, that the Quran does.
So there are human examples of meta language and programming languages are particularly
trippy and amazing and worthy of careful study and understanding,
not the least because they're about to deliver a potentially apocalyptic technology
to our species and the history and future of life on our planet.
Sorry about the noise. I'm in the kitchen.
Imagine, you know, when we read religious texts,
we may sometimes hear
the whole idea of magic, right, is a kind of speech that restructures reality
in its image, right? It tells reality what to become.
So we can imagine some process whereby, and this is the nature particularly of
certain, relatively modern magical systems, which are different from
their non-systemic origins, which lay mostly more in relation and focus rather than in, for example,
symbols, a pentagram and so forth. By the time you start getting symbols, clearly something's
gone bad because you now have to address abstractly what was previously addressed intimately,
if that makes any sense. And by the way, that letter alf implies intimacy,
familiarity, but also firstness, power. One of the men I was listening to said,
it is understood in Arabic that the letter stands for, I guess this is kind of a joke,
but it's not lost on me, actually.
It stands for what it stands for. It stands for the opposite of what it stands for,
or may, right? Your usage will determine whether it stands for what it says,
or it is the opposite of what it says, or, and this is the hilarious part,
it has something to do with a candle. And that last part is a joke that falls flat for many
Westerners, but you can imagine that if in the desert you need to go somewhere.
You can try to do it on foot in the sand.
Any of you who jog in the sand or have long walked on the sand will
know what I'm pointing at here, I think. You can try to get there on sand dunes,
and in the desert a lot of the sand isn't exactly flat, so you'll be going up and down,
up and down. If you don't have a camel, you're mostly out of luck, you're going to die there,
in many cases, in many situations. So the camel isn't just an animal,
your life is bound up with its life. If you're very wealthy or there are many camels,
you can dispose of them, but if you dispose of them wantonly and it gets around that you are
like this, the camels will not serve you. They are intelligent beings and they are known to be
intelligent beings. So in a sense, the joke about the camel is that the camel, the language itself
is our camel, we must revere and understand and care for it, or surely we shall perish.
Also in the left bait, which is probably, I'm not sure, I guess we get our
phrase from Greek, the alpha bait, but these two sounds are the same in
very similar, right, sequence and word and meaning and so forth.
The alphabet is the A, B. It's that couplet I was talking about earlier that's super important.
It might be seen possibly as the progenitors of all the other letters or something like this,
from some useful perspectives. The left bait
in Hebrew and Arabic, both, goes a laf bait gimel, and the pronunciations may be slightly
different in Aramaic or Arabic. Gimmel or gimel is the foot of a camel and everyone,
so it's sort of like the A, B, C's right there. You got, in a sense, something resembling
dad, mom and the way they get around together. Now scholars of this language will probably
you know, send me hate mail for saying something that simplistic, but
there are fundamental principles in these languages that are anterior. They form the
substructure of cognition, that's the trapeze upon which conceptual cognition dances around
while we're awake, and perhaps differently while we sleep. I haven't even touched on mathematics,
which is certainly a meta language in and of itself, and in a sense we should probably
understand programming languages as the progeny of mathematics in language, but the feature I want
to be really clear about is that both of those languages cause events, and they don't just cause
an event like the conclusion of an equation. That conclusion of the equation causes physical
possibilities to occur in technology, understanding, awareness, and so forth,
and the computational variant does something very similar with information,
but that similarly has, right, both of these are ways of structuring information,
and I'm not, I'm going to stop short of saying the universe is information,
it's what a fundamental, it's its fundamental identity, but it should be obvious that that
perspective is very useful to entertain for a broad variety of reasons and purposes.
I hope to continue to speak more about meta languages in future recordings, and to explore
perhaps music, and dance, and acting, and so forth as meta linguistic. Painting is certainly,
humor is in a way meta, meta linguistic, so there's a direction in cognition that leads
to the above of how we're usually playing in and with language, and there are many branches of
that tree that hold great promise to liberate us from the otherwise enforced oppressions of our
habits, cultures, and milieu. As always, I'm so grateful to have this time together.
I don't take it for granted. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
Thank you for joining me. Have a beautiful way. Bye for now.
