Ever since I was little, I read stories and saw films about people with powers.
And there were essentially two kinds of powers.
One of the kinds was technological.
These people had incredible machines, they had spacecrafts, and impossible technologies, time machines, and things like this.
And then the other kind of powers were magical seeming or psychic.
All of these powers were impossible for us to get.
But when I was younger, it did seem that we would be acquiring the technological powers within my lifetime, many of them.
And when I was a child, we put a couple of men on the moon, more than a few times.
And we got our first real taste of space.
And the thing that's ironic about all of this is that most of what we were sold, we were delivered the explicit opposites of at ever increasing and ever uglier crisis.
Meanwhile, rather than powers, we got something else.
We got kind of invaded, really, by paradigms and ideas, frameworks, responsibilities, competition for statuses in representational environments, or even environments that exist only within machines.
Competition with machines, competition for machines, killing and dying and working to make and serve and drive and be serviced by machines.
So we got some of the technological promise.
Why were all these powers interesting?
When I was little, I noticed already that what the humans were doing were taking really tiny, very narrowly imagined pieces of nature,
and then reproducing a kind of focused, mechanical prosthesis that did something vaguely similar, but was pretty much pure function.
And a lot of these things, in fact, almost all of them, were both poisonous and deadly.
Of course, when I was younger, I didn't realize any of that. I was so fascinated with technology, I had no idea that the jet aircraft that I worshipped were used to wipe out children and living places in other nations all day, every day,
and were filling the skies with terrible poisons and were devastating to build or operate at all.
I didn't know what had to die to keep any aircraft, any machine in the sky or even in operation, I didn't understand, and I certainly had really no idea what an atomic weapon was.
So I read many stories of powers, and I was fascinated by all of them, and very compelled and intrigued, and a lot of the stories I read were by science fiction authors.
So that was a good place for me to learn, because here we had men and women who were capable of seeing not with eyes from 10 years ago or 15 years ago or 50 years ago, which are, in fact, the eyes we tend to see with.
But rather with eyes from 10 or 50 or 100 or 1000 years from now, they could extrapolate a kind of prophetic vision from seeing how we related and misrelated with nature, each other, powers, technology, even magic.
And so in almost all of the stories, there was a kind of simple paradigm reproduced. Somebody, somewhere, had turned everything deadly and fake, and a few remaining hopeful people had banded together to transform or protect what was left.
Of course, this has always been precisely the predicament of our species within ourselves, with our technologies and with nature. But the thing that's really fascinating is this.
The idea of powers is less than a tree, and all of the ideas of magic that have ever been presented to us are far, far less than the opportunity to just directly relate with any common insect.
The reason that we have all these stories is not because we live separated in a world unconnected to the universe and all the other worlds, and it's not because we live separated from some purportedly divine extra dimension,
but rather that somehow we became incapable of being human and being alive in as living beings.
And the way we became this way was complicated, but it comes down to a kind of simple fact. Language is really deceptive if it's used unwisely, and it leads to habits of representation that replace things that they once merely pointed at or implied.
There are many examples of this. Early languages were either largely incomplete or largely pictographic so that they had to activate a human imagination very vividly to mean anything at all.
This is part of why we had difficulty in still do, deciphering and understanding ancient languages.
The thing that I want to get at here is rather surprising. It is that more than the powers of technology, more than they can ever promise, and more than all of the ideas we've ever heard of magic, are our own nature and they're absolutely ordinary,
in the sense that there's nothing supernatural about them, nor is there anything particularly advanced in the way we commonly think.
However, the nature of what stands in the place of advancement in living beings and biologies in nature is a billion fold more sophisticated than the wildest machines that we've ever imagined and could ever build until our species is gone.
So the problem isn't that we haven't built the good machines yet, and the problem isn't that we've forgotten how to be magical spirit things.
Rather, it's simply that having abandoned our actual nature as human beings and our relationships with the living biologies of Earth as and in them, we had to make up stories about things we knew and experienced before that happened.
And it's not as though it was in the distant past, even though it may seem that way for our species. That's still a relatively recent past, especially in terrestrial history, but it's also very recent to all of us because we were all children.
And when we were children, we arrived, most of us, complete with the assets of our ancestors, and many of those assets were they simply allowed to develop, would have become to us like what would seem to be supernatural or perhaps impossibly prodigious, genius, this kind of thing.
The reason that they don't is that there's an incredible and lifelong experience of agonizing conflict between these assets and the cultures and ideas, frameworks and religion, sciences and such that we're exposed to.
Not that knowledge and ideas are necessarily bad, but if we don't have the proper style of relation, if we're not equipped to use and understand language and to relate with knowledge and the possibilities of authority or domination that exists within it, then we tend to be very vulnerable.
And it actually damages rather than enhances our innate intelligence, particularly in our collectives, which are, as we can see today, relatively uncontrollable, and in most cases, nearly completely lacking anything that we might reasonably identify as intelligence, especially relational intelligence.
So most of the powers that we've heard about and been denied and go to see in films, see people expressing great powers of skill, perhaps magical powers or incredible technological powers, these are actually the symptoms of just us having abandoned our own humanity.
And what I mean by that is much more surprising than it sounds.
What I mean by that is for anyone of you who has any interest in retrieving something like the promise of your human birth and its nature and true orientations and relationships, will discover in yourself, as yourself, something so staggering.
Something inexplicable and describable, something more astonishing than all the stories that have ever been told by human beings.
And what will be even more interesting is that anyone who can begin to see this way, which really is, in a sense, to become in a certain way like a child again while one is yet an adult, but not in the way we might imagine,
anyone who can see this way will not have much interest in powers, not ironic.
They won't want to be psychic, or able to raise the dead, or fly through the air, or travel to other spirit universes.
In fact, the most surprising thing is that having even perhaps been exposed to such things and tasted them, the actual human person will prefer, for very astonishing reasons,
to be, in a way, extra-ordinarily ordinary, which certainly doesn't mean normal.
It means nothing obviously special there, just like one's grandmother, one's kindly grandmother, or a friend we met in the park one day when we were five.
Human, true, alive and here, not thinking of fascinating other realities and amazing machines to manipulate, but rather being here within for each other.
And there's a reason why this is more exciting than powers.
It turns into a kind of travel, and I cannot say too much about this here, for I intend to be brief.
So I'll say simply this, if you experience this travel, if you are able to, even one time, and of course, at night when we are dreaming, we are close.
And if you were to experience this travel with another while awake, you'd not care so much about powers, or stories of heaven, or hell, or technologies, or other worlds, conspiracies, and aliens, such.
Because you'd have an experience so astonishing, then in comparison, all we've held as marvelous would seem really pretty trivial.
So I guess I'm hoping that we can have a lot more of this kind of experience together, free of fictions and dogma and names and books, styles, fashions, free of paradigms, yet not free of intelligence,
not free of study, not free of creative observation and play, but perhaps oriented in these things.
It's very late at night where I am, and the sky, about dark, is also foggy.
I can see some trees lit against the treeline, the horizon.
It's very quiet, but for the occasional detonation of fireworks.
