A familiar, I'm sure that you as a musician are familiar with that whole, the perfect
take is the one you never recorded type thing.
Of course.
Yes.
Yes.
And yeah, actually I have a few videos on my channel that discuss the peculiarities of
recording.
The recording that you make but it doesn't get recorded, right, and it's like the perfect
take.
Or yeah, there's lots of interesting features about that.
Give me just a moment, I'm gonna, I've got a little piece of food for breakfast here
and my coffee.
No problem at all.
No problem at all.
Give me just a moment, I'll be right back.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Thank you for your patience.
No problem.
Such a pleasure to finally meet you.
I'm super excited.
Yeah, absolutely. I've been quite often, as I'm about to doze off at night, I've been
quite often putting on some of your online podcasts and absorbing quite a few of the
things that you've been speaking about, which is really good. It's really good. I've seen
you gradually building and building what you're doing and introducing more and more concepts.
I find it really interesting because all of the things you're speaking about are topics
that I've had a great interest in myself. You're expressing them obviously in very different
ways to perhaps how I would normally approach them, but in many ways you're not as well.
So I'm anticipating that what we will probably end up doing through this meeting is hopefully
filling in little bits that we normally can't access in our own brains, so to speak. As
isolated humans, but sort of find a way of opening up new ways of looking at some of
the things that you've been researching. Yeah, I mean, I'm so impressed with your work and
I think I've known about you for about, what, eight, ten years or something like this?
Yeah, it must be at least nine years, I think. Yeah, because I've been doing public courses
around about ten years now and you, I remember you being there right at the beginning. You
sort of made some sense. I was just absolutely excited to find someone who knew anything at
all about mesmerism. Right, right, okay. There are no, I mean, there might be one or two other people.
Yeah, just really uncommon. Hypnosis itself is a topic that fascinates me, has for a long time.
During a non-ordinary experience, it seems, I mean, the language is tricky here, but I acquired
the capacity to hypnotize people pretty much instantly without knowing what I was doing,
without knowing even that the hypnosis was involved. And I don't know exactly what was going on there.
It wasn't until later, I took class on hypnosis, and I got hypnotized for the first time and I
got hypnotized something else, quote unquote, that I realized like, oh, you know, this has
been going on around me without me knowing it for some time. And what a strange feature of our human
composition. Why? I mean, I have like a million questions to ask you. Because it's such a fascinating
and bizarre, where does this come from? Why is it there? I mean, all of these questions you must
have been, you must have pursued these very deeply, I imagine. Yeah, well, I think, I think you and I
look at these subjects in a quite similar way. For example, I've heard you talk a lot about
time, and about the altering of time, you know, the modification of time, which is obviously
something that you relate to martial arts. But it's also something that you relate to.
For example, the action of a snake. I mean, being a very, very good example, you know, because
the snake is very well known to be sort of, first of all, changing the perception of time.
In relation to the awareness of its own bodily movements, and then as a result of the awareness
of its own bodily movements, then comes a sudden strike. So the observer is obviously changing
their own perception of time, because if an object or a person moves in a different manner,
to what you would normally expect somebody or something to move, it immediately changes the
perception of time of the individual, which may at first be a properdetic thing,
in terms of it being something which is there to, like, it acts as like a prop.
Oh, yeah, so hence the word properdetic, but the properdetic is like the thing that's in place
of something else which is real. So the preliminary properdetic thing of the movement
may at first be something that suggests, because as we know, hypnosis is very much about suggestion,
but the particular cycle, sorry, whenever I speak, there's a bit of a,
when I first begin to speak, there's a loud noise from the other side.
It throws me off because I can't tell if it's distorted over there.
No, no, you're coming across perfectly well here.
Okay, great. There's so many different features here. So you're talking about
something that I'm going to call, for lack of a better phrase, consciousness leading, right?
Yes. Okay, so it's setting a tempo, and a case, form, there are forms, shapes in a way, right?
Yes. And human consciousness naturally, I think of it almost like a liquid,
right? I don't know if this is a useful way that you may also conceive of it, and I'm very
interested in it. I mean, Mesmer himself was somebody who regarded it as a fluidum.
Yeah, this is a fluid thing. Yeah, because I rarely hear modern speak this way at all.
It seems to me like a fluid that is structured or influenced, if you will,
the shape of its flow, the modes of its flow,
different, very differently during our waking world experience than from what we might experience
during dreaming. And hypnosis is for trance states, and when I say that, I'm thinking of a
broad spectrum of different kinds of possible trance states. Even in a blatantly obvious way,
there's the difference between, I mean, I'm in a very light trance, which quite frankly,
just even speaking together, starts to become a little bit trance-like immediately. When we
match, we begin to match up our flow forms and tempos and things like this. Already,
there's a light trance going on. And from that to awake but entranced, and again, there's a whole,
there's lots of different slices of this pie, so to speak. There's even different pies. It's not
just one pie, right? But yeah, from that to more bordering on sleep or unconsciousness,
and then completely out cold, and some different spectrums in there. Do you see it similarly? Say
something about how you see the range of possibilities, please. The range of possibilities,
well, I mean, one of the things that was, that I was becoming aware of while we were,
while I was listening to you just now, is the fact that, yes, there's different types of,
it's different forms of awareness or becoming more and more
aware, in a sense, becoming more aware. But interestingly, you can become more aware in a
very limited way, or you become more aware in a very, very expansive way. So for example,
even if I was to be speaking to someone staring straight into their eyes and saying something
which seems to limit the awareness, of course, we could stretch our awareness into everything
else that's outside of us at the same time. So we could be listening to the birds in the
distance, or what somebody's saying on the other side of the street, or just outside the
earshot. There's so many ways you can be focused and peripheral at the same time.
And that is a form of trance. But a form of trance is only a heightened state of awareness,
isn't it? Yeah, it was so weird why we're getting this echo. I hope it's not on the
recording, but it probably is. No, no, it's not. It's not. I can't, I can't hear that.
Yeah, I mean, on my side, I don't sort of know which side the recording side is, but
we'll, for the moment, we'll just go along and presume that it's okay. It's only in right,
it's after you've been speaking. And then the first moment that I speak, there's a
distortion. Like a glitch. Yeah, kind of. Okay, so
visually, we have
ideas like foveal vision, which is your, you know, your central vision and peripheral vision.
And often if I want someone to have, if someone comes to me and they say like, well, what do you
mean by trance? I'll just teach them to spread their gaze. Relax your central vision so that
your focus becomes on the outer. It gently relaxes into the outer thing. And as some people know,
which I think is a really interesting sort of mechanical feature of both vision and awareness,
if you're looking at the night sky and you gaze spread, you will see very dim stars,
which when you turn your foveal vision to them, disappear. Can't see them by looking at them.
And this is a very interesting idea because who would presume that there are things that you
cannot see by looking at them? A classic example is the player these. The player these
can usually only be seen with the peripheral vision. Yeah. And when you look at it,
you don't see the light that you see from the corner of your eye. This is something I noticed
a long time ago. Yes. It's very profound because of what it portends about both vision and consciousness.
Certainly we would all think that in order to see something, I have to look at it.
Right. But I mean, there are other features of this as well. If two people are passing on the street,
they may choose to connect very directly visually, glance at each other's eyes, exchange a smile,
whatever. But as a man, if an attractive woman is walking by, I'm well aware that if I look at her,
it's not going to go well probably. Right. So what I want to do is not to look at her and thus give
her the chance to glance at me or see me without being seen to be seeing me and this kind of thing.
This human awareness of observation is incredibly nuanced, unimaginably ancient. Right. Observation
turns out to be really profoundly instructive of the structure and activity and forms of
consciousness. Right. Yes. I would go so far as to add to what you've just said and say that
by not, you know, the example you just gave with another individual,
sometimes, yes, if the awareness is not too directed to the, to the person directly,
then you allow the opportunity, you give the opportunity to the other to feel what's there
rather than look directly at it. If you look directly at it, a rather large part of the
attention to other capacities of other modes of recognition start to start to perhaps
dissipate. Sometimes we feel the energy coming from other beings. I'm sure that sometimes when
you've been walking in the park and you've been very, very quiet and very attentive at the same
time, like you could, if you're completely open, you will eventually begin to feel,
even if you pass a certain tree or if you pass a certain plant, you can begin to feel it.
But again, this comes from certain types of practice or certain types of openness or through
meditative practices, we can actually sort of find interesting ways to have this experience,
which I think in the modern world is somewhat quashed.
Yeah, quashed or counterfeited or what? Yeah, I don't know the word for when you turn food into
garbage, right? So, yes, of course, we may sense energy, the character of not just the flow of
life force, but also the life forces, but also the sort of manifold of affinities and perhaps
disabilities, right? The manifold of relational opportunity, call and response, rejection, invitation,
all of these things, yeah. And okay, yeah, I have a million questions. So, we're sort of just
diving in here, which I feel fine with as long as you're here. Yeah, I'm very comfortable, yeah.
Great. Can you tell me anything you want to share about how you became interested in this
topic? How did you end up being the man, the mind, the myth, the legend that you have become?
Right, okay. From walking, I started walking. I did a walk, which in England is known as the
coast to coast walk, where you basically you start on the west, I started on the west coast
of England, and walked all the way across the west coast, which is takes you through the lake
district, through the lake district mountains, and then over into the Pennine Mountains, which is
otherwise known as the backbone of England, because it's like a mountain ridge, which runs
like a spine through the, you know, England's shape is a bit like a hand. And the Pennine
Ridge sort of runs up the centre of the hand sort of thing. And then you've got Scotland up here,
you've got Cornwall down here, and London sort of down here, you know. But yeah, the Pennine Ridge
runs runs up the centre. And then on the west, you've got the, you've got the Lake District
Mountains, Pennine Ridge, and then on the east side, you've got this vast swath of moorland called
the North Yorkshire Moors. Walking directly across there was sort of the pivotal point in time that
I can say really switched me on. And how it happened was first of all, I was totally immersed in
nature. I didn't take any public transport anywhere. I used my feet the whole way from one side to the
other. I just had a tent on my back, and woke up, had my breakfast, got my tent back on my back,
and then carried on walking. And it took about, took about just over two weeks to do it.
But I was pretty, you know, full on walker. And as I was walking, not only did I encounter many
significant places upon the land itself, such as stone circles, which I would camp beside and
things like this, which I'd never really encountered before. But also the sheer exhilaration of
standing on the tops of, you know, huge mountains. And also, you know, walking under the stars,
camping under the stars. For the first time, I mean, a real major experience happened with
the Milky Way, where I suddenly felt the whole expanse above me, and literally felt it viscerally
running right through me, right into the earth. And I suddenly felt completely connected, like a
continuum, like there was no separation. And this was, and just walking every day, and breathing,
and observing, and listening, and not being engaged in too much conversation,
really did plunge me into quite a depressive state when I returned back to London, because
at that time I was living in London, and to be plunged and immersed so much in this
in this type of state of just walking in nature every day, and then having to go back to London,
plunged me deeply into the dream world, which started to happen while I was actually on the walk.
Somehow my dreams became much more vivid, much more accessible. But when I came to London,
I started to get some very, very unusual dreams, where I think you yourself have indicated
about certain communications you started to receive from what we might call other realms,
so to speak. Well, this sort of started happening at this time. And all I can say is that on a
practical level, my spatial awareness, the sense of my physical body existing within this continuum
of nature, plus the dreams which attended the switching on of this state, plus the fact that
the breathing in the movement and my sense of my body and my spatial awareness started to
cause me to realize that there was a direct connection between my perception of time
and other people's perception of time, which again, as a dancer or as a musician or a stage
performer or a martial artist, all of these people will have this sense whether they can
articulate it or not. Have I begun to answer your question?
Yes. In order to attempt to avoid the echo, I'm going to try to put my headset on and see if this
affects it. So just give me a moment. And I have not lost the thread. I am preserving the thread
of the conversation in my awareness. Just give me a moment here.
Can you hear me? Yes, I can hear you. And hopefully that will solve the problem that you're
talking about, because it sounds like a feedback problem, doesn't it?
Yeah, it does. That's one of things could possibly help us here. All right, so
I want to go back to the last thing you said, and then we'll rewind a bit to the beginning of
your journey and stuff. Since about 2018, I've become very concerned with what I've
experienced as a series of transformations, actually the end of 2018. And without going
too much into the personal bit of it, it became like what triggered my awareness and why I became
concerned. I had to deal with changes in my sleep and dreaming, which turned out, at first I felt
like, oh, this is just something local with me. It's a problem with Darren. When as I began to
reach out and talk to other people, not everyone, but I encountered people who had had the same
experience at the same time, a series of problems that match up in each of the different people
that I spoke with. And then I thought, oh, well, maybe it's just something local to where I live.
There's people in Europe, there's people in Asia that I've spoken to that have the same sort of
story. And that made me very concerned about what might have a causal role in what was going on.
Trying to understand it in some way. And one day I came across this book that random,
I think it was called The Bipolar Survival Guide. And in this book for the first time,
I was introduced to two concepts for which there are German words, Zeitgeber and Zeitstorter.
And when I hear you talking about the relation when you're out, when you're in public and you're
walking around in the temporal relationships there. Okay, the weird thing is the experiences you
describe, I could see them from the angle that you are actually becoming a walking Zeitgeber.
You are a local being, a being who is becoming a point of synchronization.
And that synchronization, I mean, that's almost the definition of trance, right? Is that you get
certain streams of consciousness synchronized in a particular way?
Yes.
This is how we go to sleep. If we can't, if they don't sync up, if those streams don't sync up,
we can't sleep, right? Or we can't remain asleep. And one of the things I discovered over the past
few years, which I find kind of mind-blowing. First of all, the circadian rhythms are complex
rhythms. It's not a rhythm. It's like a symphony of streams that when they work well, they work very
well, right? And it's reminiscent of a snake, actually, or many snakes forming one snake or
something like this. And then when they don't work well, you know, there's like two or three
straggling snakes. Now the others begin the struggle and so forth. But what I found very
surprising was that there are something that I will refer to as oneric rhythms.
Right, right, yes.
The dreaming rhythms.
Yes.
And these also are symphonic. They are multi-stream. They have to, they have to flow together. They
come together. And the coming together of them, if you have experience and consciousness of it,
is usually very bizarre, right? It's not, it's not like a mind state that would be familiar
to common people. And there are often very strange images and or what correspondences
in awareness as the, as the, as sort of the beginning of the snake is starting to come
together from multiple strands, right? And I mean, there's so much richness here, but
without getting too, you know, too lost in the woods. So what surprised me, what never had
occurred to me is even possible, but it's something that I have experienced.
And I hope no one has such an experience. It's possible for the oneric rhythms to break away
from circadian rhythms so that the snake doesn't form when you're in circadian,
like sleep. And in order for it to form, you have to basically like stay asleep for a whole
another period after, you know, your sleep period, right? Because for example, let's say your,
your normal circadian rhythms are from say, I don't know, 10pm to 6am or something, right?
And so somewhere in there is usually where your oneric rhythms are active and
helpfully doing their thing, but that can get displaced so that your oneric rhythms
are trying to form like eight, nine, 10am, 11, or even later, right? A mind actually flipped
over into the afternoon, which was miserable. It's like not, and it went through a variety of phases
and it was pretty scary actually. There was no dreaming at first, there was sleep disruption,
there was dreaming in blackness, no, no visual, having dreams, but no. And then so I've been
trying to understand this. And what I realized is that there are, it's a, it relates to site
gevers, site stores, things that contribute to synchronization and things that disrupt
synchronization. Right, okay. What would you, what would you believe cause the synchronization and
what would you believe disrupts the synchronization? Yeah, well that's, that's kind of a mystery. And
I've been on, I've been trying to understand this for a long time. I've talked with a variety of
different people. Like I said, not everyone's affected similarly, but a large, a real, a surprising
number of people sensed something at the end of 2018, particularly, but gave them a sense of doom,
actually. And I had a sense of, what, sorry? A sense of doom. A sense of doom. A impending doom,
right? And I had, I had a sense like this very strongly for a couple weeks.
And then sleep cycle disruption, dream disruption, loss of motivation. And the story is really similar
among probably at least 20 people I've spoken with over this time, maybe more. And there are
groups of people who've been discussing this, but they don't know this. Like it's very difficult to
get a handle on what the hell's going on because we don't talk about these things, right?
Now, that's a big side story. And I'm sorry for leading us off, off to this.
No, no, I see all of this as being relevant to whatever it is we're exploring.
Okay, great. Thank you. So one of the things that occurred to me is that the experience that you've
had on your walk, which by the way, has some sort of classic features, right? And one of those features
is that you become a connection point between the sky and the earth. Yes. And, and so the history of
the sky, right, which is a totally strange kind of thing compared to the history of the earth,
because it's infinitely rich, deep, complex, ancient. And then the history of the earth,
you're, you're actually doing this thing that I'm talking about when I say zeitgeber, right?
You're, you're acting as a point of synchronization between what I might call celestial time,
and the vast landscape down here of terrestrial time. And it's hilarious. It's actually humorous to
hear you say things like, you know, I would walk past these stone circles and sound like, wait,
wait, okay, really? Because what you're, you're, you're almost like acting as a temporal lightning
rod, right? Which is a two way thing. It allows the communication from the earth to the sky.
And also, okay, so, and then you come back into society, right? You come back into like the city,
which is so ridiculous. Yeah, I feel like I've been ripped open when I came back, really.
I mean, say more about that, that feeling so that I can understand what you mean by ripped open.
Well, when you're living in a very, very, you know, in a completely urban environment,
like in London at the time, you sort of, you, you sort of develop a thick skin,
I think, because you have to. And, and so by going into these places and
walking every day, in this completely natural environment, with just a tent as my, as my home,
I suppose it was like I shed a lot of skins, if you want to put it in that snake analogy,
again, skin shedding. In this case, in this, I mean, the headphones aren't stopping it.
So in this case, though, it's also armor, right? It's like it's layers of buffering protection,
right? So it's not just, it's not just like a developmental, yes, please continue.
Yeah, yeah. So I literally felt like all of those layers had been
ripped open. Or should I say, if I'd have stayed in that environment, maybe it wouldn't have,
it wouldn't have had the same effect, but returning directly back into, into London and
getting on with ordinary everyday life after such an experience was quite a shock.
Because I could feel, I could literally feel everything around me in a really painful way.
I could feel people's anxiety, people's fear, people's tension, I could feel all of these
things coming at me, like, as if I was completely open to it. And so I didn't find that very
pleasant at all. And so started to feel rather ill. And I even went to the doctor's sort of,
I don't know what I, what I have here, but it feels like I'm sort of coming down with a terrible
flu or something like this, that won't go away. And then it sort of got worse. The doctor couldn't
find anything wrong with me. And it, it got worse. And I ended up going into what you might call
like quite a classic state of depression where I was, couldn't really get out of bed.
And I started to dream a lot, but every time I was dreaming, I would see a specific landscape
which kept recurring in my dreams. And it was a specific hill with a path going up the hill.
And at the top of the hill, there was a view, a sweeping view down into some cornfields from
quite a high place. And with a river, and the river was flowing to the left, how do I know this?
I know this because I walked down the hill and there was a boat waiting for me. And inside the
boat, there was this feminine figure, almost like a goddess type of figure, just waiting for me.
And I would get into the boat every day, and then she'd take me down the river. And every
time I got, and not a word was spoken between us, every time I got into the boat and we drifted
down the river, I woke up filled with energy, filled with a sense of incredible vitality and
a feeling of, like I was literally coming back to life.
Now, the reason why I say this is because this, your question, plugs right into
lots and lots of the points I've heard you speaking about. We've been talking a lot about,
you've been talking a lot about,
well, there's so many things I can pull here, pull here together. You've been talking a lot about
medicine. Right. Now,
as far as I've become aware, this whole, this whole, I say whole, this whole, this holy,
this whole, holy concept of the, of the, the medi, as you speak, that which is between,
goes between the worlds, the medium, as in the medi, like you have it in such words as
the middle earth, the place in the middle, the media, the point of communication betwixt
one point and another, the threshold. This is the place where the healing takes place.
So the alteration of consciousness through the alteration of our concept of time, because time
is the measure. And so I've noticed you've been working a lot with ideas of
the equivalence of words. Now, of course, words, communication are all in the realm of
the Lord of communication and the Lord of medicine, being the healer, being the mercurial essence.
So the mercury, so we're talking about the snakes and that whole thing with the dreaming and the,
the waves you were talking about, the oneric realm is, is clearly the realm of the Asclepian realm.
I mean, say more what you mean by Asclepian, just so that people who are listening might.
Okay. So, so the Asclepian realm is the realm that Asclepius, the healer,
would, would actually work with the snakes to actually bring people into a state of dream. So
sometimes, and I think this answers, or at least makes a commentary on some of the things and
some of the attitudes you've had yourself. In the end, it doesn't matter, I don't think it matters,
whether things are actually literally true or not.
May I say something about that? Yes, of course. Okay, brilliant. This is a very confusing point
for moderns. And part of the reason why it's confusing is because there is actual danger,
right? Yes. Because danger, what is the danger comprised of? It's comprised of something that
resembles someone telling you something and then posing it as true when it is not true.
Right. So that's one kind of the danger. And this is the danger that we face with cults and
ideologies and specific intentional mistructurings of cognition, understanding, awareness, thought,
concern, fear, hope, right, intentional manipulation of these snakes, if you will, these strings,
right, in our consciousness. And that's, that's a real danger. Okay. Yes. And then there's this
other really weird problem, which I think is more or less masculine, even though apparently,
circa 2024, one's not supposed to say words like masculine or feminine anymore. You get a lot of
trouble for this, but I'm willing to take the risk here. Because I think these, these ideas still
have useful importance. And, you know, that we can demonstrate that. But a masculine problem is,
as men, we are often trained to immediately dispose of something that we can determine
that isn't true. Right. Someone says blah, blah, blah. Like, that's not true. It's done.
End of the thing. Owen Barfield in a book called Saving the Appearances, which is incredibly
amazing. One of the few books that I commonly blather on about talks about this Greek sense of
theoria versus what happened post Galileo. And theoria is concerned with what is good for seeing.
It helps you to see. It's not concerned at all with whether it is the same as phenomena as
experienced. Right. And the problem with Galileo, according to Barfield, was not that he was saying
the earth orbits the sun. That had been being said for a long time. Problem with Galileo is
that he was saying there's a new kind of truth. Right. And it's a truth that the church can't
control. It's a truth of the symmetry between theory and observables. It is predictive. Right.
This is what the church is terrified of. This is why they, you know, persecuted him according to
Barfield. Now, this is where I'm going to come back to. I think the spirit of what you were,
you were sharing. And I'm just, this is so exciting. I'm like completely on fire right now.
There are forms of truth that are more profound than fats. Right. Right. And some of those forms
of truth are actually approach, not just the mystical, but that which lifts us above our common
human experience, awareness, ability, faculties, understandings. And these kinds of truths are
often, I think there's actually a part of consciousness in most of us that immediately
recoils from them. And just like, that's, you're not supposed to know that. No one's, you're not,
that's not, don't, you can't say, you can't go around saying things like this. And one of my
friends was asking me, somebody who's kind of studying with me, and he's very curious,
and I'm very curious. And we have, as you say, like, there's a synergy that happens where we
both get outside what we've known before. And I love, this is an amazing aspect of our humanity.
And he was saying, you know, why, what do you mean by forbidden knowledge? Who's forbidding it?
Right. It's a very natural question. He doesn't understand. Even I don't understand. I'm trying
to understand. Right. I'm like, yeah, why, why is it forbidden? Because my own mind, under the,
you know, when, when sudden, suddenly is sort of an insight from beyond my humanity, so to speak,
arises in my consciousness, my own mind, an aspect of it, just recoils often. And just
it's like, no, no, I'm not having that. No, none of that stuff. No way. And so, okay, a couple
features here. So one of the things that happens is once I can structure it in memory, and I'm
going to come back to that word and your experience and the Milky Way and the earth and the skin thing,
once I can structure it in memory so that I can hand it off to my sort of conceptual cognition,
if you will, so that I can hand it off to conceptual cognition, say, okay, make, explain this, help me
explain this to other human beings, make a toy that you can show them this insight and they
will understand. Once I give it a job, it's totally fine. It's like, oh, okay, I'm not getting evicted,
the gods haven't come and just pushed me entirely out of the picture. All right, as long as, you
know, as long as you keep riding the horse of me, this is all right, right? So then, yeah, this is
hilarious. And kind of terrifying to experience because you wonder like, wait, what the hell is
actually, what is my mind? Why is it happy little compartments and stuff? But what I said to my friend
was, you know, it's as if in our common waking consciousness, we're in a kind of a prison sort
of a cage. Yeah, and any knowledge that has to do with the composition of the bars of the cage,
or how we got in there, or what happens to open the door that lets us out, that's what's called
forbidden, right? That's the forbidden, that's where the forbidden, what do you think of this?
What's your? Yeah, yeah, no, I think you're, as we say in an English phrase, you're right on the
money there, you know, it's very much the case. And I think this is why people fear
even subjects or even the experience of things like hypnosis. This is why people fear
you know, anything which alters the conscious awareness, or gets people to, I'm using some
fairly cliched phrases here, or gets people to think outside the box in any way whatsoever. It's
also sort of borders almost on sort of Gnostic themes as well, you know, the whole Demiurgic
idea of the fact that forbidden because the Gnostic ideology was that the Demiurgos is
actually the one which is controlling this reality, wants us to stay stuck in it, wants us to
not question it too much and just keep going along the crystallized forms that it has put in place.
Yes, yes, and kind of enslavement or occlusion of freedom, intentional occlusion of freedom,
right, yeah, intentional occlusion of freedom, yeah. And so the thing is, is that this med,
med thing, this medicine is the actual point betwixt, the point between those strictures,
the girders of the soul as they call them, you know, those actual, those places that keep the
fabric in place. Now, we know that certain points of what the snake can do is poisonous,
and we know that it can also be transmuted into something which has the healing quality. So again,
it's all to do with ratio, it's all to do with proportion, it's all to do with how much or how
little of something, in order to be able to understand where one, where one can actually
navigate that, and I use that word as well, navi, navigate, you know, related to the, the, the naval,
or, you know, the navy, the navigation through the, through this time and space, you know,
how do you navigate through time and space? We're touching on the huge, huge topics here.
Yes, actually, actually really are very huge. Yes. Yeah, I mean, these are really dangerous
things. But dangerous because of their sort of how many layers there are in the strange cone
of what we're orbiting. And of course, if it's presented in a certain way, this,
through the common perception can also appear like complete, you know, nonsense. Yeah, nonsense
or even madness, you know. Yeah, yeah. No, I mean, spoken in the right way. It's true. But one of the
things that we modern's mostly lack is an experience of what I would call a manistai, a mantic
profit, who is literally like under the influence of the beyond, or, you know, nemosity herself,
the mother of the muses. And this is sort of the role that Omen Hillman is flirting with. I mean,
I think he's a lunatic, I do. But he's also capable of this thing. And the people who are
criticising him, they don't see it at all. They're just attacking him, basically, on a scholarly level,
right? Yeah, yeah. What the things he's saying can't be true, you know, that's not,
I won't go into the details. And we need to let the conversation be over.
May I, may I speak here as well, because there's been certain moments in some of your
recordings where I've heard you very honestly, and very openly, just toying with the idea of,
oh, this, this word and that word, and so on and so on. Now, again, I bring it to your,
your attention, or to everyone's attention, the fact that in a certain way, this is why I brought
in the thing of like, does it matter whether it's true, or whether it's not true? Of course,
that the true part, how do we define it? But the not true part, okay, on a scholarly level,
on a scholarly level, yes, okay, you can say, this doesn't belong to this root, this word doesn't
belong to that, because it's from a completely different branch of linguistic roots. However,
homonymy, homonymy, they sound the same. Exactly. Right. And so this is what I was going to say.
And so think of, think of the ancient travelers, the troubadours, for example,
the troubadours that would take songs and poetry and different things from one kingdom to another
kingdom, and their, their duty was to travel from, to visit one king, and then another king in a
different land, and they would travel through different tongues. So they were literal simplifications
of Mercury. They're also like the honeybees, right, flower to flower, right, precisely, and then in
the hive, the essence of all the flowers is being collected. And so what is it? Okay. There's, there's
like a syllogist, the syllogistic magic here that I want to just highlight. I'm sorry for interrupting
you, but this is important. I think it's important. We're wrapping, we're wrapping. Great. As bees are
to flowers and honey, right, as bees are to flowers and honey, X is to the different peoples'
languages, and then the kings, right, to V, right, whatever the, the sort of, uh,
metalog of this honey is, right, and it has to do with memory. It has to do with structuring
and unstructuring. We are so fascinated with the structuring things that we generally don't
understand that there are magically powerful and unbelievably profound methods of unstructuring.
Unstructuring isn't merely the disappearance of structure. No, right. It's the, um, pulsate,
like a iterative, slow, iterative dissolution of something that takes, I've never even been able
to say this before in my life, but takes away the declarative experience of phobial vision
and introduces the changeable, suggestive, right, peridolia of the incomplete image.
Right. Right. And language is always evolving. People forget that. Yeah. And also, like,
also every new idea fertilizes our consciousness. And so every new idea, every new way of hearing
things fertilizes our consciousness. But one thing that I often say to people on my courses,
when I do my hypnosis courses, especially when I'm speaking about present moment awareness and
learning true present moment awareness, if you were a newborn child and you had never heard any
words before and you're hearing your mother and father talking, how is it that you eventually
speak those words yourself? You speak those words yourself through the recognition
of repetition, of form. But what did they sound like before you understood the form?
Yes. Yes. I see. Yes. So we literally crystallize formlessness into form,
which is what everything in this cosmos actually, how it came about anyway.
Yeah. And so speaking in tongues, in the true sense, gobbledygook or whatever you want to call it,
is actually the return back to the formlessness, which could, if you want to get a little philosophical
about it, could actually be the original form in some way. It's just we don't...
Like the ear language? Yeah. You could say it might be a form of ear language.
But I'm going off on a tangent now. The real point I'm trying to make,
and this is why barbaric tongue or formless tongue can actually be a perfect way of creating
different states of consciousness for the magical mindset, for example, to enter into a new space
where the vision state suddenly appears. So for example, what I was going to say to you is
a scholar would say, yes, you can't say that's equivalent to that, because we have studied
the actual growth of language and the different branches of history. However,
not only the newborn baby hears the sounds for the first time. Yes. They don't care. They don't care
about the roots. They don't care about the roots. They don't care about the roots. That's right. And
neither does. It's like, we, if we go traveling around and we pass through many different countries,
we hear people speaking in Spanish, we hear people speaking in... But we don't know how to
speak Spanish, but we hear them speaking Spanish. And then we might go to Italy, or we might go to
France. So we hear them speaking in Italian. We hear them say, okay, there's some, right, my English
is, here's some similarities. So what we're, because we are pattern recognition devices,
because we have to make order out of chaos, we look for, we're hardwired to look for the patterns.
And so matter, sorry, I'm on a run here, but the pattern is the pater.
Oh, wow. Okay. Oh, my God. Yes. Oh, God. Yes. The pattern is the pattern behind
the matrix, the materialization of all things. And the, the meter is also the memory and the pattern
is the pattern, the speaking and how it structures, right? It's, it's this, it's this
eros, right? It's this active eros between these two. I remember when I was little,
you know, my mom used to, I was a bit hyper lexical as a kid. I had a natural affinity for,
for English and reading and stuff. Is this familiar to you as well? Did you read a lot
when you were a kid or? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, well, especially when I, especially when I reached
my late teens, I just went crazy reading just all the time, you know, but, but as a child,
as a young child, I read a lot. Yes. Yeah. This is an apocryphal story where my kindergarten teacher
calls my mom in and tells her that I have a learning disability because I'm not paying
attention during reading. My mom was like, well, what are you reading? And she holds up like fun
with Dick and Jane. It's like, you know, Darren's reading 2001, a space Odyssey. You're like, what,
you sure? Darren has a learning to, you know, anyway. Okay, so later. So my mom, I remember
one day, I was probably like four or something, three or four. And she said, she sort of sang to me,
why, oh, you spells you. And I was like, that can't be right. Why? The question, why, oh, me,
why, oh, me spells you. She's messing with me. This can't, that can't be how they do spelling.
Right. And I'm hearing the homonomy. Right. Yeah. And naturally noticing these things, which let's
be clear, psychotics and schizophrenics also notice this. Yeah. So there is mad, like madness and
prodigy are feathers on the same wing. He would say wings on the same bird, but they're feathers on
the same wing. And I remember going to school and asking the teacher, maybe I was in first grade
or something I was like, so are you telling me there's no relationship whatsoever between SEA,
the ocean and SEE seeing because there's salt water in my eye. Right. I know the water in my
eye is salty is what I'm thinking. Right. I must be that I see because of the sea. Right. I come
from this, we come from the sea. I'm having these complex pattern making reveries is what I would
call them. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And she's like, no, there's absolutely no relationship between if
it's completely accidental. It can't be true. And then of course, this comes back to what is meant
by truth. You know, what which kind of true. Right. Okay. I think I think the thing is, obviously,
we are both speaking about and dealing with areas where obviously it's a double edge sword,
you know, sword, because because the side, there is a side to it where if unchecked and
untrammeled, it can spin off into complete meaningless chaos and complete making equivalences
where equivalences don't, well, don't have any meaningful relation. Yeah. Let's be clear about
the three of the dangers there. Right. You have delusion, paranoia and megalomaniac. Yeah. Yeah.
Those are the three primary spikes on that thorny crown. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Because once
again, you know, I've seen plenty of examples of I'm sure you have yourself as well, plenty of
examples of individuals who've gone down these similar types of paths and have ended up spinning
off into outer space altogether. It's a fairly common thing when people begin to work this way.
However, what is interesting is the fact that
when I say, you know, Mater and Pater, you know, Mater and Pater, the matter and the pattern. Again,
this is one of those things where an academic could argue, well, there is no relationship
between them. Yeah. Yeah. However, the point is, and I think this is the important thing, the point is
how does that
how does that enable us to, in a meaningful way,
back to the medicine again, back to the healing, how does that in a meaningful way
cause us to feel enlivened and once again at peace with our place in the universe, our place in
the world and our relationship to it, rather than it being a painful thing, how does this become
a life affirming and joyful relationship to finding these things? Because back to medicine again,
illness in my opinion, I speak for myself here, illness in my opinion
is actually the result of fragmentation.
Forming, creating a state where we become fragmented and disconnected. And you see this
in all the ancient myths, in all the ancient technologies such as shamanism and the rest of it,
the dismembered self, the Assyrian self, you know, Osiris in ancient Egypt, the dismembered one,
Isis, his wife, his, his divine wife, puts him back together again, Humpty Dumpty, you know,
all the king's horses and all the king's men couldn't put Humpty together again. It's that whole
thing of what is it that causes us, that allows us to form a meaningful and joyful and life affirming
reconnection, so that we begin to sense an internal trajectory towards, we have an, even if,
even if we can't answer the questions now in this life, and partly this is why I believe in,
this is not the only life Darren, it's like, I believe I, you, many others consciously even
have been here many times before. That's another subject, another whole thing.
Yeah, familiar to me as well, though, and I'm not even sure that me is one thing.
No, wrong, right? Like, in a way, I can't imagine, at least, that me is a constellation
of craft past beings, right, with a sort of, much like a solar system, like with the sun
in the middle, and I think I'm the sun, right, and I think like, yeah, the more I'm the more,
I'm the important thing here, because I'm the nucleus, right, or something. And there's many
different ways to imagine it that are, that are useful and brilliant and helpful.
But I don't want to lose the thread. Okay, so, so much. Yeah, there's so many different topics
here. We agree, though, fundamentally, that it's wildly unlikely that we come out of nothing into
I'm a Darren, and then I, you know, walk through my life, and then I'm at nothing again, that just
very unlikely. I don't think there's any, any feature of nature that we can understand that
works that way. It's just doesn't, it's not one thing like that. The only thing kind of like that
is language. Language can be a little bit like that, a little bit. But even that, you have the
entire history of, of a language, right, and then you have speakers and like I speak a language. So
that history I must inherit it, in order to be able to speak. But all right, so I want to focus on
illness is fragmentation. Yes. A dissolution like process. Yes. Into dreaming, which is the
between of maybe conception, birth, life, sleep, dreaming, death, right. All these things are on
this continuum. We go down into the between or up into the between or both, right. We go above
our life and below our life. At the same time, we're in the liminal, what we might think of the
between space, the liminal space, where the foundations become blurry and like start to
liquefy. And another amazing example or metaphor for this is obviously the chrysalis, right.
Yes, it's literally liquefies. And then it forms this jewel like basically it's a casket.
Yes, that sarcophagus, right. And then out of the sarcophagus explodes this
impossible thing that feeds on the nectar of the flowers, you know, and so
and this is the I don't, I don't really know if what Amon's talking about. I think it's relevant
but it never occurred to me before I heard him say it not not one time. I knew there was an
association between death and wisdom, but it never once occurred to me that there might have been
wisdom traditions, where they literally said like, okay, we're going to kill you, you're going to die,
right. And we're going to give you these these substances, they're going to die,
we're going to structure this process from from before we give you the substances into
terror, absolute terror like mind wrecking, you know, shivering. I tell all my sins, right,
because I'm terrified out of my mind. And that's not necessarily true that that's a phase in this,
but it's possible in the way he discusses it. And then being taken into like the cave of the
civil, you die, you awaken, they resurrect you, they give you the antidote, they bring you back to
life. You've now seen the other side directly firsthand, like the people that we might hear
near death narratives from. And then you have to find your way out of the cave through a sequence
of sort of visual allegories or something like this. Now I'm half making up some of this,
but nothing like this ever occurred to me before I was, I knew there's an association between death
and knowledge. The 13th Sephora in in Kabbalah's Doth, which at least has this resonance and is
associated with death, right? Right, right. And then there's, you know, the snake at the tree,
which this is a question that I actually took up with the nonhuman intelligence, like, what do
you want to know? I want to know about that. They're like, wait, what? I said you can have
anything. I'm like, yeah, I want to know about that thing, that thing where the accident happened,
and something got broken in our people. And then now we're, we're always in this trouble over
generations of generations. Is it, and they, they taught me all kinds of amazing things about that.
And basically, what it came down to is that the loss of contact with divine intelligences
resulted in the prominence of representational cognition. And that stuff is super vulnerable
to capture by, by sort of these processes, right? They're not actually, they're not like demons or
diamonds, but they act very malignantly. And their primary concern is domination, reproduction,
and contagion, just like spread an idea that captures the humans and their behavior. So they
do this, but they're not beings. They're just, it's a, it's a side effect of a structural problem
when representational cognition can't be reconnected with its origins. And so it's like spun off as a
broken satellite, like dead inside satellite. It never occurred to me that, for example, maybe the
snake actually just straight up killed Eve and then like resurrected her and then showed her how
to do this. And she did this to Adam. And then there was a big, like that, this is a mind blowing
idea. And once again, I'm not trying to say it's true or it's not true. I don't care if it's true
or it's not true. You see what I mean? It's so profound. And when we hypnotize someone, in a sense,
their ego undergoes a dissolution that's safe. And we don't have to terrify them or, you know,
give them drugs or anything, right? I remember a time when someone I'd hired came to my house,
and he'd clearly been in an accident on his way to my house. He was in bad pain. This is a really
tough young man, been in prison and like lots of fights. If he's showing the pain, he's in a lot
of pain. And we talked a little bit and I just said, look, I can tell you're in a lot of pain.
Would you, how would you feel about that just going away? He's like, dude, I don't have time.
I'm like, do you have two minutes? It's like, yeah. And I sat him down. I drew him into trance.
And I essentially just erased the pain. And he was so excited and freaked out because he's,
how did you do this? And I said, look, just check with me over the next few days.
The pain comes back, call me, whatever. And it was really pretty mind blowing to me.
How can this even be true? It doesn't make any sense to regular thought
that something like this is possible. I can say a few words to someone over a minute and a half.
And the pain is, they can't, they don't feel it anymore. They're free of the pain.
What? What? What is this? This can't be right.
What are your thoughts, whatever you've, you know, got?
Well, I mean, I mean, the, you've sort of reminded me of the fact that we're going
back to the movements and the awareness and the movements and the changing of awareness.
Because there's two major, I mean, the, the, the form of hypnosis that we ordinarily think of
these days is verbal suggestion. So we've been talking a lot about language. We've been talking
a lot about how thoughts, sorry, sorry, how, how words can actually evoke certain types of dreams
or images in the mind through association, sometimes even through the phonetic equivalence,
like you say, can, can actually create an image associated with that phonetic equivalence, you
know? And, and that can be used in hypnosis. And in actual fact, it's been successfully used in
hypnosis as a technique by some of the most famous hypnotists. But there's another form of
hypnosis as well, which is nonverbal. And of course, the, the arts of magnetism and mesmerism
deal more with the nonverbal side. And there was a very famous hypnotist in the modern age,
I'm pretty sure you are very well aware of Milton Erickson, you know, very famous American
hypnotist. And the thing that's great about Milton Erickson is the fact that
he, what, okay, a lot of his students in the modern day are pouring over tomes of his original
work, trying to find the secrets in the words he spoke. But when you see even a video of Milton
Erickson, you actually see you obviously what's going on. It wasn't the words he spoke, they were
just a part of the equation. It was actually his whole stance, his energy, his self awareness,
his movements, and how completely present to himself he was while he was doing them.
It's difficult not to begin to fall into trans just while listening and watching you because
you're doing, you're doing what you're saying right now, obviously. And you may not be, you know,
turning up the volume on it intentionally, but it's blatantly obvious that you're, you're doing
what you're talking about, which again is a kind of natural. It does. Yes, it does. But it's, it's
also really strange because we so rarely encounter something like this, or what is being spoken of
is being enacted while it's being, and so the inaction is real and visceral and somatic
and emotional and psychological. And the words are in line with a fundamental thing that's happening.
It's so uncommon for us to have this experience. Please continue.
Yeah. And so, and so as I'm saying, it's very much to do with
the awareness of yourself in the conditions of space and time.
So here you are. You are, you are making a measure of your existence in space and time.
If you're in that state, someone suddenly throws a ball across the room, you catch it in your hand.
I mean, how is it that people play golf, for example, and hit a tiny little edge of a ball
and get the trajectory just right? How many fractions of measurement are inside that thing?
And so this is where we go back in. This is where we go into the wisdom tradition of,
of you spoke about the Kabbalah, but the true Kabbalah on the continent at least
over in Europe, true Kabbalah has always been understood as the Kabbalah for Natik.
Oh, okay. It's what's, it's what's spoken and it's what's heard, not what's written or defined.
And it's called the Kabbalah for Natik, the long vert, the green tongue,
the living tongue, the verdant tongue, verdant, you know, verdant.
So the poetry and poesis comes from this use of language and words using the Kabbalah for Natik,
the phonetic Kabbalah. I mean, Kabbalah from its very meaning means the received tradition.
The received tradition from mouth to ear, from mouth to ear.
Yeah, orally, orally transmitted, long before there was writing and even after there was writing,
there's a layer beyond all the book stuff where, for me to you, this is why you and I aren't,
aren't having a written conversation, like I'm not sending any questions and you're typing the
answers, right? And also, you know, my own development, my own sort of romance with language
letters, spelling, phonetics, as a poet, eventually what started happening was very,
very strange things, like things that have, there's no precedent in ordinary thought or knowledge.
Writing things and then having them happen, writing poems, right? Now, of course, there's a problem
there and this problem borders on when we talk about things like synchronicity. Right, right.
And again, it's similar with what we might call, God, there's so many concepts here. So
when I say the word magic, I can mean different things. But if I mean the true, old, trustworthy,
transcendent skillfulness, I mean something like this, then you can have, like, I began to realize
that Big Leo Manzi was a real thing, you can open up a book and you can read randomly, you can get
seven books in front of you, open them all up and switch between them and you can begin to
see something that's impossible for you to see if you're not playing this kind of a game.
And, okay, so where am I here? It's through the web again. It's just
getting through, you're getting, it's that medium, that medius. But it's also, you're like,
you're rising up to where the, I'm going to use the word eros, but the intimacy, the active,
mutually adoring, magical intimacy between memory and possibility, origin,
and in structuring, right, all of these things are there, they become coherently musical, music
is in insight, right, the insight of memory. So there's all these features of language that are
mostly completely unknown to moderns. And so when you say like the verdant tongue,
I know what you're talking about, I think, I mean, not in the same sense that you, you have in your
mind. I'm losing my train of thought because there's so many things involved here.
To transmit orally in song, it's really profound. And some time ago, because I got very lucky,
I underwent an experience where something was transferred to me in an indigenous tradition.
And what was, I had to hear the song of the transfer. And I had to be re, sort of remade.
And this is a form of, I mean, transfer, these actually do link up kind of, right? I had to
hear the song and then I had to learn the song. And it was very, very difficult thing to learn,
because it's not like Western music at all. It's sort of a, there's all these tones,
there's vibrato, and there's no syllables really, I mean, kind of. And so obviously what's happening
there is structured linguistic consciousness is liquefying. And it's just starting to like flow
and spin. And then it reforms slowly afterwards. And that reef, in that reforming, this reminds
me of, you know, the, the caterpillar into the chrysalis, the healing, which is also a kind of
death, right? It's at least the death of the previously fragmented state. At least that is
dying into this liquefiesence, right? This, this enchanted liquefiescent shining thing.
And then it's restructuring with, with the fragmentation somehow subtracted.
Right. Please, whatever, please. Yeah, I mean, this is, this is what, again, you know,
we were talking about wisdom tradition. I mean, everything you described before was,
obviously, was very clearly what they were doing in elefsis in ancient Greek, in ancient Greece,
elefsis, as the Greeks pronounce it. And the, and also, what you've just described a moment ago
was basically the process of, which was, again, very, very well known inside the wisdom traditions
of, say, the alchemistic point of view, because you have the dissolution, the salve, and then the
reformation, which is the collagular. Yeah. You have the, you have these solvier collagular.
It's the solvier collagular. That's what we're talking about here. And so, but any, anything to
be, talking about NLP and hypnosis and things like that, I remember one really useful quote
that has always stuck with me that I remember Bandler saying, in hypnosis and NLP, you're only
doing one of, only ever doing one of two things. You're either pulling things apart
or bringing things back together. So you're either moving the person away from what they don't want,
or you're bringing them closer to what they want, or a bit of both, like a leprosy. You're, you're
actually dissolving their fixations or, or crystallization around a particular psychological
issue. So dissolving it, breaking it apart, making it looser, so they're no longer seeing it in such
a tight jacket kind of way anymore. They, you free them, you give them space to breathe, space
to be themselves again, space to find that thing that they feel as their valuable self again.
And once they begin to glimps that, you, you draw their motivation towards that
to be more present in their life. So it's always there. So it becomes more and more a living reality
rather than the things they don't want. So it's all about that, reformulating the trajectory
away from what you don't want towards what you do want, away from what you don't want to be
towards what you want to be, which is putting it in very simple terms. So it's, it's ironic that in
our common human experience, we find ourselves fascinated, bound and trapped by pain and fear
and history. And these can become, you know, I was doing some counseling with a couple,
and one of the couple was concerned that the other one might be cheating. And I said, you know,
I sort of looked into the situation and I said, you know, I really don't think your
partner is cheating. What's going on is your partner is in love with their historical pain.
Right. Right. So it's as if they're cheating, but if they're not kissing someone else,
they're having a romantic relationship with agony, with historical agony, with fear,
with an iterative cycle that has happened and been, you know, gone again and again. And just as
someone who tries to understand my own trouble in my own life, the, the
constancy of incredibly ironic, you know, I thought something was done to me,
but when I go back and sort of unwrap the crime scene, so to speak, it always starts with my
thumb print. It was that it's Darren's, you know, fingerprint right there at the beginning
that I overlook and think like, oh no, it was, it was something that was done to me or it happened
to me or something like this. So there's this incredible irony. And particularly today, when
we hear people talking about trauma work and stuff, I don't, I want to be careful because
I want to be gentle with myself and with other people and not to say, look, you're, you know,
you're sticking the knife in yourself or whatever. That's very crude thing to say. That's not what
I mean. But somehow there is this, we have entranced ourselves over the history of our lives,
many of us, and we're spiraling along this very familiar path that we're in love with and we're
kind of frightened. We don't, we don't know anything. Nothing else is as familiar as that.
Nothing else, we're not intimate with anything more than we're intimate with that. And so in a,
in a beautiful situation, someone who is skillful and has awareness can come and sort of dissolve
that iterative cycle briefly. And so now we feel the freedom. And after we get a good sort of the
flavor of that freedom in our energy and our body and our senses, then we can perhaps let go and
begin transferring our attention toward something beautiful, fulfilling the lives.
Yes, yes. I mean, something that I've often, that I often say to people is, and I know this is
certainly true from my own experiences, we, we don't really know truly what we want until we
really know what we don't want. So, and you only know what you don't want by actually experiencing
what you don't want. And by experiencing what you really don't want, you really begun to understand
the real depth of what you really do want. And as a result of that, it's like an arrow pointing
towards a target. You, you become more and more sharply defined towards where it is you're truly
going. And, and, and so where we are really going is, is what, it's like a string pulling from
inside us. We can't help but go where we truly in our heart want to go. That's very powerful.
Yeah, there's so many things that I'm beginning to see that I've not been able to be conscious,
to form in consciousness before. But I want to come back, I want to circle back, because there's
some unanswered early stuff here. So you came back from your trip. You're in, you're in London,
you're torn open, you're in despair, you're dreaming, the woman's leading you down the river,
which by the way is pretty, it reminds me of a snake, right? And the woman is mediating,
you know, you're actually inside the living water snake, right? And every time you awaken,
you're filled with energy. And yeah, but you're also like your motivation has crashed, and you
don't want to go, but you're starting to want to get out of bed. No, no, now I'm having these dreams.
Okay. Every time I had a dream, I would wake up with renewed energy, and I would feel a complete
reinvigorated sense of purpose. And yeah, this, this is what would arise out of that
period of time where I didn't want to get out of bed, was having the dream of getting in the boat
and drifting down the rivers. Now, there are many more things I could say about this, maybe not
on this occasion, maybe some other time, I don't know. We're going to have more than one of these
as long as you're willing. Yeah. Oh, very much willing. Me too. These are basically this place
became an actual reality. You found it? I actually found the hill. And I found the river. I found
the river. I found the hill. Yeah. Yeah, this is where the problem, this is where the problem
arises, right? Like my friend who met these people in dreaming, and they exchanged contact
information, and then they met, you know, wow, and began to work magically together, right? So what
is, you know, we have this idea of the dreaming is just a sort of fantasy thing. Now, I'm not sure
that I don't think so. So what about, what about the dream time? Obviously, the Aboriginal sense
of dream time, because this was going through my mind earlier while you were speaking, because
you have the walking, which is a really important part of the Aboriginal ideology,
isn't it? The walkabout, the tringas and the walkabout, and you have your tringa stone,
and you have all of your marks on your tringa. This is actually the,
this is actually the thing that they enter into the dream time through the walk. And this is something
that became sort of, that became a bit of an idea, you know, a bit of a thought in my mind. It's like
doing that walk, not only did I, in the English sense, by walking from west to east,
I literally cut through all of the geomagnetic energy lines that run through England,
this way. So this is something that I started to become aware of many, many years later. And
I'm just wondering how, how much of a connection that has to-
But also you're walking from the future to the past. In the west is tomorrow,
right? And the east is before. And the east is before. So you're going, you know, you're literally
going back. And that's interesting, that's interesting, because before I went, I actually
had a quandary about that. Which way shall I walk? Shall I go from the west to the east,
or shall I walk from the east to the west? And I thought about it, and I was thinking,
well, if I'm walking from the east to the west, I'm going to have the sun on my back,
you know, for most of the day. But if I'm walking from the other way, I'll be walking into the sun.
So, yeah, so many questions here. First, what was going on in you that led you to do the walk?
And one more thing, why don't you do a kind of Pilgrimage? Go ahead.
I never really consciously understood it at that time as being a pilgrimage. But then, you know,
in all the years that have come subsequently to that experience, I've fully understood the whole
concept of meaning of pilgrimage. I believe you. Yes, so what motivated you? I didn't mean to
interrupt the some of the things that happened. What motivated me was the beauty of connecting
back to the land, connecting back to the landscape, the beauty of living in that landscape and being
and moving within it with the movement of the sun and the moon and the stars and me moving
through the landscape, witnessing all of these beautiful things. Because I've always loved
just beautiful places with a passion. Yes, yes. Yeah, we are a Sylvan.
And we're talking about that burdened. And it was only last week that somebody, you know,
I was making a joke about Pennsylvania being a place where they make a lot of pencils and she was
like, no, no, it's about the forest. It's about Sylvania, the Sylvan, you know, Glade. And I was,
yeah, right. Yes. Okay, so how do you get from the dream to interest in and which came first,
mesmerism or hypnosis? Right, so I started, first of all, studying NLP. And from NLP,
I started to study hypnotism, because as I went through the NLP, I was thinking, well,
they've garnered these materials, they've gathered all of this stuff from earlier hypnosis and
hypnotic techniques. So then I started to become more interested in things like Milton Erickson
and more traditional hypnosis. But I'd already had, from my experience of going to sacred sites,
I'd already had certain experiences of, you know, and also the walk itself, you know,
certain places where you would walk into a place and you would feel
a connection to the energetic flow that was running through the land or from a tree or from a
stone in one of the stone circles or something like this. And I would notice how when these
feelings arose, it wasn't just a feeling, it wasn't just a visceral feeling, it would literally affect
the conscious awareness of how you're interacting with the world around you. Because you're not
just feeling the feeling, your perception starts to become altered as well, like colors become
brighter, sounds become more loud or just like vibrational forms that lose their names or lose
their labels. And so you start to become, well, I'm speaking for myself here, start to become
immersed in a sea of energy, which actually has the possibility of being somehow modified.
So it's not just like you're receiving information and because this pen is a pen,
we call it a pen, it's only a pen. It's more, this pen exists within my conscious awareness,
within my perception, and it's subject to the sole vicaragula in the same way as all the other
forms we're talking about. Let me pause you there to see if I'm understanding something.
And maybe I'm not, but it sounds like you're saying something. Let's try. Let's try. It sounds
like you're saying something that resembles
features of experience that we would normally cognize representationally, i.e. this is a pen.
They are experienced, but not representationally. Now they are like forms or forces or...
Yes.
They are structuring awareness rather than awareness putting an overlay on them.
This is a bird, this is a Blue Jay's call.
Well, it happens both ways. It happens both ways. I think, to be honest with you, I think it's
happening both ways all the time. I do too. We have things outside of us.
So speak.
So to speak, or so we are led to believe.
Our standard waking consciousness is that, but I mean, what the hell is going on with
things outside you when you're dreaming? Well, exactly. Right, like what does outside mean?
Well, yes. And if you see the sun, if you're sitting on a beach and you're feeling the sun
hitting your skin and you're feeling the heat and you're getting a tan in a dream,
I don't know if you've ever had a dream like that where the sun's been hitting you in a dream,
and you've seen the sun and you feel the sun, but you're dreaming.
This is very ironic what you're saying here is extremely ironic, but I'm listening. Keep going,
please. Where is the sun? Yes. No, this is something. I'm sorry. This is something I ask
people commonly. I will, you know, I'll ask their permission because it's nice to have consent.
That matters. And I'll say like, I want to ask you some questions about your dreaming and what I
want you to, and by the way, if anyone's listening to this later, go ahead and pretend we're asking
you this question. I want to ask you some questions about your dreaming. And they'll be like, okay,
and I'll say, you know, I want you only to answer yes if you have an actual memory, not if you think
it happened, right? Not if you think like, yeah, probably that probably happened to me. I don't
want to hear yes then. But if you have an actual memory of this, then say yes. And I'll say like,
have you ever seen the sun in a dream? And they'll answer. And most people say no.
And then I'll ask them, you know, have they, have you ever seen the moon?
And then I'll ask them, have you ever seen like an electric light source like the lamp?
Or have you ever seen a burning candle? And they'll answer. And then I'll ask the question that I
think is much trippier, but they don't know why I'm asking. So I'll say like, have you ever tried
to turn on a light switch in a dream? And they'll be like, and if they say yes, almost invariably,
they'll be like, yeah, and the weirdest thing, you know, they just go into whatever, whatever
happened. So I have no idea what your answers to these questions are. I have seen the sun. I have
seen the moon. I haven't, I don't remember the sun shining on my skin in the lake in the way that you
say. Attempts to turn on light switches tend to produce hypnopopic phenomena, right, which are
very strange, usually, and sometimes involve sleep paralysis or other. And this is again,
where we get into the, there's so much to go into here because there's that between
space, there's the twilight space at the beginning of the sleep cycle. And there may be
some, you know, along the curve of it, but then there's that other special twilight space at the
end of it. And they tend to have different character, right, the hypnagogic, which I think is the
beginning, if I have that right, and the hypnopopic, which is the end. Yeah. Yeah. And these things
are very fascinating to me. But then when, when after I've asked the questions, and I'll ask you
this question, because I can't wait to hear your answer. What do you think illuminates your dreams?
Because it sure isn't light. It ain't light that's illuminating your dreams. I mean,
it ain't light like this time. Well, this leads me on, I can't help but answer the question with a
question. The question is, what is light anyway?
Well, yeah, I mean, okay, so the great questions that we can chase, and let me be clear, I have a harem.
I'm not satisfied with one life in this story. I have a harem. Okay. And it's like, what is light?
What is time? Why are there beings? What is time space? Why are there living worlds? What are
organisms? These are some of my most beloved. And I'm not looking for an answer to these
questions. Oh, no, no. That would be a divorce. Absolutely. Yeah, I don't want an answer. I want
kisses and love making and, yeah. Absolutely. That's it. That's it. We're on the same page
absolutely in that story. Because this is what I was saying to you before. It's like,
we don't have to answer these questions. Well, our relationship with them expands and becomes
more beautiful as we proceed without it being demarcated and without it being explicitly declared.
Oh, it is this. Yeah, what I meant to say was we don't have to definitively answer these questions.
Yeah, I mean, there's a real problem in consciousness with declaration. Explicit things
is like consciousness collapses into, I don't know what, a knife, a weapon, something not
trustworthy most of the time. There might be a few purposes over on the side for which that's
useful. Okay, so back to NLP and you're like, let's go back before that because this is coming
out of hypnosis. Obviously, the next thing is, okay, this is coming hypnosis is coming out of
mesmerism. I'm guessing, but no, no, no, no, no. So NLP took me back to hypnosis. Hypnosis took me
back to mesmerism. But mesmerism took me right back to what I was already intuitively and naturally
being in touch with in the first place that led me to want to begin to even start
to study hypnosis. So I knew there was a connection between the alteration of consciousness
and changes that can occur as a result of how you have this cross-blow of the interaction between
things which you perceive and things which you interact with and how they can both
form a dance with each other and how they can modify each other. Things from the outside obviously
modify us on the inside to use that convenient metaphor and things from the inside actually
have an impact and effect upon the external world as well. So there's an implication here that I
just want to highlight before you continue, which is the opposite of passive synchronicity.
Right. It's active synchro. Yep. I don't have the rest of the word. It's like active
synchrolation. Synchrolation. Synchrolation, nice word. Something like this. Right, right. So it's
a bit like, it's a bit like deliberately plucking a string to cause a resonance, a harmonic resonance
through the space. Yes, yes. And obviously vocal intonation has this natural quality.
We're, us moderns, aren't very familiar with it. Hypnotists are. Singers are. Poets can be.
Orators, yeah. Okay, so the mesmerism brings you back to, what I heard when you were describing
this was on the walk, I discovered a sort of the river of myself. Yes. That was this thing for
which there is no word. Yet it's mine and I sense it and I can taste it and it's real. And then I
come back to the city and it's, it's all broken and I didn't despair. And then the dreaming
sort of reforges this golden, silvery starlight, you know, and then it leads you into NLP and
hypnosis and mesmerism, which leads you back into what I can only say is like a soul path
or something like this. Yeah. Which by the way, the milky way is understood in this fashion
by many indigenous peoples. They're like, that's a route. That's a route, a living route,
right, or root, as maybe it's pronounced in British. Root, root, yeah. Root. All right, so I'm
with you. So it leads you back. The mesmerism brings you back. Yes, yes. And, and years later,
the particular stretch of the walk where I experienced this connectivity with the milky
way and the earth and me as the medium between myself as my own body as the medium between the
earth and the heavens. Yes. This part of the walk where this happened was it was a part of the walk
which is 40 mile expanse crossing over Moorland. And this particular path going across the Moorland
is a really ancient prehistoric path, which is known as the like wake walk. Like, as in
L, Y, K, E, which is an old English, old ancient English word, meaning that which is like to yourself.
So like and I like to be alike to something like your twin or your likeness. The like L, Y, K, E.
And then the second name of the walk was the like wake walk, meaning wake as in like an Irish wake
or a funeral where you're actually having the wake performed. So it is literally the walk
of your double, of your like, of the, of your dead self
walking. And the path follows the milky way, literally follows the milky way. I only discovered
this about 12 or 13 years later. So there was a connection. One of the things I heard
one of the things that was suggested to me about the story that you've told
is that when you went on this walk,
it was your whole life. It was your whole life from like beginning to like conception to death.
And this walk was outside your life above your life or within your life, right? And you're doing
this walk. And then after that, what's happening is the resonance of the different
parts of the walk is flowing into and informing your regular temporalized life path.
Something like this. Have I got in my clothes? I very much concur with your introduction because
it has, it has, it's like the old principle of, you know, the greater is as to the smaller as the
smaller is to the greater. It's the as above so below. It's the, it's this literally like,
what you're kind of, what you're saying is something along those lines that within this act,
within this action, was a map of my whole life.
A weird kind of map, like a living map, not, not like, you know, the map and the territory,
and not like that. No, a living map. Yeah. Almost like a divinatory map as well.
Yeah. Oracular. Yeah. Oracular. That's so incredible. There's something.
Okay. So another, there's another feature here along this route, this path, which is that
as you proceed, okay, you come back from the walk and you begin, you know, your, your life afterwards
and you're living, and it's not, it doesn't have to be in a linear line, right? But
it's natural for us to think this way. But what's, what's something strange happening,
which is as you're proceeding in your life post walk, features of the walk are
an amnoetically spiraling back and, and making like in, so it's like the spiraling,
this anemesis, right? Unforgetting and unforgetting is the spiraling pulse as you
proceed in your post walk life. Something like this is, is a sense that I'm getting.
And walking to the sun. Yes.
Walking toward the sun. And because I couldn't help but notice after doing this and through
the rest of my life, everything within the world echoes that principle, whether they are
consciously aware of the fact or not. It's like a flower. A flower is obviously it's a seed. It's,
it's under the earth. It comes up through the earth. And then it, it rises up and opens its head
and it even follows the thing. But when it was a seed, it already knew, well, you know, obviously
in some way it already knew that its duty was to reach back to where it came from.
It's destiny. It's destiny. And the thing is, is all of the, everything here on the earth,
including the earth itself, no wonder in ancient times they looked at the sun and said, you know,
this is raw. This is God, you know,
it just absolutely blows my mind the degree to which moderns are confused because
I was talking with an extremely intelligent gentleman yesterday and I asked him some questions
about the sun. And it's very clear that he has no idea what I'm not trying to denigrate my friend.
What am I trying to say? There is nothing near us as primordial as that.
That thing has absolute precedence. It comes before all other things. If the sun were to
blink out, the entire history of human thought, feeling, life, spirit, like the whole thing would
just go like, it's gone. So it must be that everything around here is literally like
an organ of the sun's. It's like a side effect of the fact of what the sun is being
and doing. So minds, dreams, like souls, all these things, these are like a side effect of what this
we don't have a word for. It's more than a God. It's more than a God. And we think,
oh, it's like a nuclear explosion in space.
No, no, everything we're saying, everything we're thinking, everything we're perceiving,
is it? The possibility of anything at all has to begin with, at least around here,
with that, that more than a being, right? So yes, it's not, I think it's, I think we're confused
when we think the ancients thought the sun is a God, because there wouldn't be even be gods.
There's no, you won't have ideas, you won't have arguments, there won't be anything at all,
unless that organizes it. And of course, the planets, the other stars, the moon, these are
also primordial, but the sun, it's the ultimate local progenitor of stuffness, of any possibility.
So I have incredible reverence for the sun. And also, I remember when
a very beloved cat was dying. This was a gonon flower mantis. It's a little creature from Ghana.
It was my teacher for a long time. And I adored this creature. And they only live about six months,
so, you know, they're gonna die. And she was dying, and I had her on a flower in my hand,
and I was crying. I was just inconsolable. And she said in my mind, like, why are you crying?
This is the most glorious moment of my existence. I am returning to the sun.
Really? It's just like, yeah, don't, don't worry. I know you're sad, well, we'll miss each other,
but I'm going to the sun, and you will, we will, we will go there together. You know,
part of you will go with me is sort of what was being implied, right? We will go together.
So yeah, these, these things make sense to me.
The sun. I remember when I was a little kid, my dad, I asked him what the sun was, and he said,
it's like a big explosion in space. And it makes this radiation stuff. And I was like,
what's radiation? It's like, well, you have to be careful. It can mess you up. It can make you sick.
And I was, it's like, and I wonder what it would be like if, first of all, I was terrified,
what my dad said led to the idea of nuclear weapons and this kind of thing, right? It was
just terrifying. And nothing, really almost nothing about the spirit or, you know, wisdom or
insight about the sun. Sorry, it was a bit of a tangent. So you're facing the sun and you're walking
toward the sun. And what you're saying is, this is sort of what our life cap is, we come from the
sun into in a sense, we are incarnate, we walk then toward the sun, not, not realizing that,
you know, and hilariously you hear things in death, like there was this very bright light
at the end of a tunnel. Well, I'm not saying that that is the sun, by the way, but
no, no, but, but, but just right. So we see this thing, the sun. Yeah.
But even the sun is, you might say, we could consider the sun to be just a metaphor.
Oh, okay. I would say it differently. I would call it a hypostasis.
A hypostasis. A lesser stasis of something beyond it, right? Yes. That is so profound
that compared to that, even the sun is kind of, you know. Yeah, precisely. That's the spirit of
what I was tempted to say by that. Yeah, hypostasis is a good way of... I think time
space is a hypostasis of something. Yes. Usually, I think this way. There are other ways of thinking,
and the earth is a hypostasis, and, you know, a body is a hypostasis of something. Precisely,
precisely, precisely. Yes, yes. This is exactly as I understand it as well. These are the conclusions
I've reached myself as well, yes. So what I'm saying is, is by working with things like
trans states, by working with things like hypnosis, it offers people the opportunity,
and the reason why we have therapeutic work, and, you know, to be able to do therapeutic work,
is because it allows one to enter into that liminal space where, like I say, the crystallizations
can become more fluid and then can reform into a shape closer to the heart's desire.
So that's why we can let go of things and bring it closer to the heart's desire, or at least be
prepared to do so, because nobody can really do that work unless in themselves they reach that
place. So you might say the skill of a good therapist is to bring it out of that person,
that readiness to let go of the things that no longer serve them. And I think that this is what,
this is what's important, is recognizing each of us to recognize, and I say this generally,
for the whole world, for everybody, for us to all recognize what no longer serves
our true trajectory, our true purpose, our true, you know.
So you're saying that the therapist or the
therapeutic, I think is the word you used. I like to use the word therapeutic, yeah.
They, in a sense, they potentiate the situation so that the grasping onto the pain and the illness
relaxes naturally and opens up. And so that creates, it's as if they are,
it's as if they are catalyzing a transformation almost in something like the electromagnetic
Yes, yes, yes, yes, of, yeah, something like something resembling that they're trying to,
it's a transformation of how the charges are deployed, how, how charges deployed, or at least
this is what is in my mind. Right, right, so for example, I'll use another way of explaining
things, another metaphor. It's like we can take a grain of salt or, you know, or some sugar,
and we can, and the sugar, if this grain of salt or this piece of sugar, this grain,
one single crystal, if that was a metaphor for the individuality, like I'm stuck with this,
and even though I don't like it, I'm, I want to be this grain, I want to stay this shape.
You know, I know that there are a few other shapes I can be and I could reform myself into,
but I like this shape. It's like, yeah, but what if you sort of, you know, but, but if, when you
say you want to stay this shape, how many things are causing you pain being this shape? And it's
like, well, yeah, I suffer all this pain, but I am this shape, right? Oh yeah, but if we just sort
of put a little bit of moisture on you and, you know, sort of breathe on you, you might start to
just lose that shape slightly. How about trying on? Are you willing to try on this
new shape, perhaps, you know, like just give it a go? And so you get the individual
used to the idea of maybe trying out this new shape, like a, like a kid
doesn't want to get rid of their safety blanket, you know, it's like, well, try on this jumper,
you know, it's like a different color to what you normally wear, but it might work. You might
actually like it, you know. Yeah, also there's this, there's, there's a few simple features of this
that aren't scary. And the first one is you could, we're going to go do a different thing for
just a minute for a little span. And if it's uncomfortable, whatever, you can go right back
to how it was, like, you won't lose your place in line, right? You can go right back to your
old thing. If the new thing doesn't really feel good. And then I remember when I went to the
hypnosis meetup where I was for the first time trained a little bit, and they were giving like a
kind of standard induction. And when it was my turn to be hypnotized, the, the sort of
the consent moment, right, was just someone said, like, would you like to feel a lot better right
now? Who's going to say no to that? Like, like, no, I'm not really, you know, what would you like
to taste something really delicious? Would you like to have a beautiful dream? You know, who's
going to be like, nah, I'm good. But you'd be surprised. There are many who really do not want
no, no, it's not just that. No, it's more, it's much more ironic than that. I myself
am so confused and grippy about my own pain and history and trauma and stuff. But even though
I'm aware of these things, there's this incredible ironic kind of backflow, you know, that I can
sense in myself, you know, in a way. So I certainly have compassion for the people like, like, no,
I'm good. I'm fine, bro. I think I'll play my video game. I don't need to actually have life
or, you know, whatever. And no, no shade on people who play video games, by the way. But yeah, yeah.
Okay, so wow, there's so much here. Okay, so I want to ask you a couple things.
So many things. Okay, we hear a lot of today about altering consciousness. And primarily,
the method we hear for altering consciousness is drug use. Yeah, right. And one of the things that
Amin was making clear, and I've heard this before in like traditional Chinese medicine and so forth,
is that curing isn't necessarily the goal in medicine. It's not like you have to get rid of
something or fight it or attack it, which are sort of more or less modern allopathic medicinal
ideas, right? It's more like you just need to rebalance the body, or you rebalance the energies
in the body. Yes, exactly. And then things will dissolve and change on their own,
a sort of a different model. And Amin was talking about this concept in his readings of,
I think, Galen, the old Greek texts. So I think it's really weird.
I think it's dangerous, actually, that we would sing the praises of intoxicants
when we have this other technology that's just it were made of it. It's so natural. It's as
organic as your own saliva, right? Exactly that. Yes. Why would we want to introduce poisons
and antidotes when we have this dreaming way that dissolves consciousness into its
sort of originary aspects allows reformation within that almost alchemical
chrysalis of trance. And then naturally safely we come back and there's no downside,
there's no side effect. So you share this perspective generally? I generally do,
yeah, very much. Yeah, I wouldn't say like there's no conditions under which we might
usefully experiment or be perhaps undergo training or even initiations involving intoxicants.
But why would we go there first? Well, there's certain, yeah, I mean, for example, in ancient
cultures, if they ever would use pharmacology, for example, or any of these types of substances,
it would usually be done under very strict conditions after enormous amounts of preparatory
work or leading the individual into a certain state they can enter into themselves, where they
fully understand and have fully accepted. And this could take many, many years, of course,
fully accepted this fluid aspect of the persona, persona mask, literally a mask, you know, the
persona is literally the mask. So the mask we wear, and we're so tightly identified with it,
is actually something which is just part of the mystery play, we take it off, we put a different
one on. And when we, you and I, speaking through this conversation, I would say that we are both
as aware as each other about all of these aspects we've spoken about, you know, we're aware of this
fluid nature of the self, what is the self anyway, all of these questions. And, you know,
you sometimes hear these stories, don't you, about like, I don't know, Timothy Leary and people like
this going up to certain gurus in India and saying, Oh, try this. You give them 25 hits of LSD.
Exactly. And then you hear these, I don't know whether these are true or false stories.
I think, yeah, there's pretty good evidence for them going like, it's not really any different
than how it was before that thing. Well, anybody who's spent time in a natural environment just
staring at the sky, watching the clouds move over them, you know, looking at the flowers grow and
die in front of them, sitting in the same place every day, just watching the cycles move, start
to become aware of the transitory and illusory nature of this world in any case, and our place in
it. So it's not going to make that much difference to someone who's been so deeply immersed in the
natural world for so long. In fact, they probably see it as a form of violence, maybe,
to the self, to hit the conscious awareness. No, it is violent because
trans, the transitions between what we might think of as ordinary awakening consciousness,
as it begins to shade gently into trans, and then as it becomes more, more or less like
a mode of sleep or something. I don't know how to put it, actually, it's clumsy language, but
that process is relatively natural. Whereas, when you take a drug, what happens is like,
you flip a switch, and your consciousness is forced into some kind of strange, strange to common
experience, mode, form, flow, orientation, and it's very often, especially if you're doing,
for example, something like someone smoking DMT, often what happens is the person takes a couple
of hits, and then they're like, oh, shit, I'm dead, I'm about to die right now, I'm going to die,
and they have to death here. Whereas, I really doubt you're going to have that in trans, I really
don't think it's that, no, it's not that kind of compressed, this is the edge, and across the edge,
you know, I'm gone. No, it's not like that, at least not in my experience. No, usually, what I
explain to people who've never experienced trans before, is I just say it's a completely
natural state, that's the first thing, it's nothing unusual, it's nothing unnatural, it's not
supernatural or anything like that, it's just a completely natural state, whereby you will realize
that you are completely and utterly comfortably in complete control of where you are. You know,
you're in full awareness, and you're in complete control, and there is nothing overriding you,
or causing you to do or be anything which you do not wish to be.
And by the way, that's a complex array, that's a complex cascade of suggestions that you just
omitted. I mean, as a hypnotist, I know structurally what is going on there, and I don't
disagree, I guess that's a strange thing to say, if we say I don't disagree, what does
that really mean? But yeah, I guess what it means is there's more, there's more to be said,
but that's a very reassuring and gentle preparation for induction or something.
Yeah, I mean, I would just suggest to any therapist out there to sort of take that approach,
you know, that it's with complete, you know, one is completely on their own free will and accord
subscribing to what it is that they're wishing to achieve, you know. There's a lot of things
which are imposed or suggested to us from the external world, from the media and so on, from
films and so on, where it's suggested to us that it's going to do this to you,
it's going to cause this harmful effect, it's going to do this, it's going to take over your
free will, it's going to, you're going to do things you don't want to do, and all of these sorts of
things, which it's really, really very harmful, you know, to accept those
suggestions, because they're not suggestions which are there to help the individual to find,
you know, their true trajectory, their own personal individual true trajectory, it's not,
it's a way for finding your true trajectory. Yes, and they are toxic in the wrong kind,
in the non-medicinal sense, right, in the sense of poison. You were talking earlier about
concept of temporal synchronization that reminded me, this is quite some time ago,
of the idea of titration in pharmacology, right, it's, you get the right, just the right amount,
over the right span of time, need both concepts, right, it's the catalyst and the tempora.
Yes, yes, so this is interesting, because we keep talking about time, and we keep talking about
space, and the thing is, is if you look at things, again, from the ancient mindset, which I quite
often do, you have obviously the planets, and the planets all represent specific modes of energy
and function, the functionality and intelligence of how energy and form, it's almost, they're
like the modes, the nodes of intelligence, nodes of intelligence that govern form and function
within time and space. And so Saturn, for example, would be the one that governs structure and form
and time itself. Kronos. Kronos. And so I would say that anyone who was in the old sense of the word,
working with wisdom, would be the one who respects Kronos, who has a respect for it,
doesn't want to smash Kronos, because the ancients would say, well, if you want to mess with Kronos,
Kronos will definitely smash you. And so it's a bit like somebody trying to prove that a brick wall
isn't really real by smashing their head into it. It's not going to create a very good result,
it's going to create probably a horrible result. These things need respect. Yes, how can you,
in a sense, when you say Kronos, it's not merely time. And this is the thing that has become so
clear to me over the span since 2018, the absolute primacy of synchronization. There's so many
features. All of biology is hitchhiking on historical iterative paths. They're hitchhiking on
each other's effort, and they're hitchhiking on each other's not merely destiny and memory.
All of the fundamental things are symphonically organized. And so what are you going to do?
You're going to go against the root of synchronization? Good luck, because you have to
synchronize to do a thing. So if you're going to fight, you have to synchronize to fight,
right? How will you, yeah, right, it's like you're going to remove the ground from underneath your
feet in order to run. Right, right, makes no sense. Yeah, that's not going to work, but good luck.
Obviously, humans get angry and hebristic and confused in such a way that we engage in such
ironic, almost, if it weren't so dire, it would be comedic, right? If it wasn't so tragic, it would
be comical, because it's so hyperbolized. Yeah, yeah. Okay, so the planets, Kronos, the intelligences,
the nodes, but I think you also meant modes, too. Yes, yeah, yeah, they can interchangeable
nodes and modes, I would say. Like Kronos does in the musical modes, right? Ionian,
Ionian, Dorian. Yep, yep, yep. And the architectural modes as well. So proportion and
all of these things and so on and so on. It's all part of the beautiful way the ancients would see
our relationship to time and space. Cosmos. And cosmos, cosmos, yes. Yeah, exactly.
I don't know if I have satisfactorily answered your first questions, really.
Somewhat, yes, somewhat. But clearly you felt, okay, so there were, it seems like there's at least
two important threads, and I think there's a lot of threads, but there are two that stand out. The
first is you are discovering your life path. You are uncovering and recovering it, right?
And as you are doing this, it becomes clear at some point that your life path,
if I'm misstating this, correct me, is involved with assisting others in healing and recovering
their life path. Yes. And that you have a gift or a mission. I think we do bring to our incarnation
this sort of secret little package of, you open up the envelope, okay, here's, if you are caught or
killed, the secretary will disavow any knowledge of your act, right? This secret sort of mission
that isn't always secret. Sometimes it's not. It's just heartfully obvious.
Well, I would say that it's been shown to me through nemozony, you know, and also that is actually
a function, you know, because you can, through resonance, through your own path, if it's been so
key for yourself, if you as an individual have had these things happening in such a profound way
to you, then by default, I would say, like I use that metaphor for plucking a string causing a
vibration, you're going to get others to remember how to vibrate as well and find their own, their
own. And so really, that's what it is. So if you're finding it yourself, you will, you will,
cause others to resonate with you. I mean, we have these things in our conversations all the
time in our language, I resonate with that, I resonate with that, you know, it's, it's, it's,
it's really basic, but very profound. Because this is what it is. This is what it's really about,
isn't it? I think, well, I would say, I would say it's about causing everybody to remember where
they're going really. I mean, an amnesis might be the most, one of the most profound and significant
and compelling, yeah, of the fragrances of the soul. And so to use a different metaphor,
like if you've been inside the hive where the honey is, you have that smell on you.
And when you're walking around in the world, it wafts around and other people are like,
wait, there's honey somewhere nearby, right? And they get sort of lit up. And then naturally,
there's this distribution, there's a distributive emanation and a drawing inward too, right? It's
both, it's like, yeah, it's like breathing, right? Yeah, you breathe out and it's distributed,
you breathe in and it's unified and it unifies in all the people around when the in-breath happens,
right? It's like little stock, the nebula congeals again and a star comes to life, right? Yes,
like this. Yes, and I think we should, I think we should, those of us who are on such paths
that we've discovered, either, you know, those of us who are on such paths that we've discovered,
we should relax and trust that that's what we're doing.
And, you know, like, we all should, all of us of a similar elk should relax and trust that
that is precisely what we're doing. And it will, what you've just described, that is what we're doing,
that's what we're here for. To some ears, it may sound a little grandiose, but I think anyone who's
I think anyone who's really understanding this and going through it can't be,
I'm trying to find the right words, can't be dissuaded or discouraged by the ordinary perception
of what keeps us inside that
that, that crystallized place that everybody accepts as being the place where
it's only real if it's this.
Yes, let me say a couple things about that. I haven't really said that very well, but I
know I think the meaning I'm trying to say. Let me reflect it, let me see if I can reflect it back to
you. We can imagine the voice of the crowd, the voice of the common person and the critical,
the critical perspective they might direct at such
inspired discussion and perspective, right? And they could say, well, yeah, that's grandiose or
that's a bunch of blue. A bunch of woe as well, easily. There's lots of ways you could,
that we can imagine a circle of critics, right, would sort of peck at something they have no
knowledge or experience of, natural for them to be skeptical, right? And they might also say,
like, this is how cults get started and blah, blah, blah. It sounds very grandiose. Why do you
think you have powers and things? It has nothing, what we're talking about, nothing to do with any
of those concerns at all. It's not related to them in the same way that, like, I don't know.
Yeah, I'm trying to think of two entirely unrelated things. And the problem when you
start to do that is that the first, you always find a relation, you can find some relation
between any two things. So I won't give an example, but it's not related in the sense that, first of
all, someone who's authentically seeking an amnesis, healing and medicine for others,
the nectar of our origin and purpose, anyone who's authentically seeking these things,
will either get in a lot of trouble very quickly, or they will become very humble.
Yeah. So it's not like the ego, yes, of course, you can have grandiosity, but
in the quest for, in the quest for nemosonese kiss, your arrogance will deprive you of everything
you hope for. And you will quickly learn this. If you started out arrogant, you know, like,
and I have certainly had some arrogance in my life, right? So I've suffered, I know what I'm
talking about here. But yeah, you'll eventually, you'll be made diaphanous. Your ego will become
diaphanous. And you'll realize, like, this isn't about Darren at all. This has very little to do
with Darren. Darren is sort of like the name painted on the ship's bow, you know, underneath
nemosonese statue, right? So vital and shining. And yeah, okay, so we call the ship Darren, but
it's not, you see my point. Yeah, yeah, totally, totally, absolutely. I mean, this is why I said
earlier, you know, we talk about the self, but what, you know, and there's that old famous phrase,
you know, before you enter the temple, you must know thyself. But like, that almost means like to
un... What self, what is the self that you must know? Right. I mean, it's almost like saying,
it's almost like saying, before you enter, before you go into the entrance of the cave,
divest yourself of the costume of personal identity. That's what know yourself probably
mostly means. Or at least, that's a very useful angle on the question, right? Without saying this
is what the question's answer is, because that would be clumsy and crude. Yeah. Because the answer
is nuanced and many, you know, many, many pebbled, right? Like a flower, many pebbled answer.
How do you feel about taking a pause here? Yeah, yeah, I'm absolutely fine. Absolutely fine with
that. That would be wonderful. And I'm very happy to do this again. Yes, as am I, in the near term
future. In the near future, when the time is convenient for both of us, we will definitely
do this again. That would be really, really good. Yeah. I'm so grateful for this time. Oh my goodness,
what a nourishing and inspiring conversation this has been. Absolutely. Absolutely. Thank you so
much. Okay. Thank you. All blessings to you. Till next week, we meet. And do I have your permission
to post this? Is it okay? Sure, sure, sure. I think we actually did what we came here to do.
Yeah, me too. I'm just so excited. Yeah, thank you so much, Lee. Fantastic. Absolutely. I look
forward to it. Okay. Thank you. Thank yous for now. Bye bye.
