Great to see you again, Lee. I'm so happy.
Great to see you again, Darren.
I'm really excited. There's so much to cover.
We'll probably be sort of continuing along the lines that we established in our previous conversation.
Yeah.
And let's see here. So, part of where we left off,
we were talking a little bit about how it's possible,
a process that resembles the caterpillar going into a priceless, right?
Yeah.
Where you can sort of liquefy the structure of history and the self,
and then reforge it maybe without some of the impediments.
Right.
And it was perhaps carrying historically and struggling with.
Yeah.
And we can return to therapy.
I just want to sort of bookmark that idea.
But there's a span in your story previously that I'd like to revisit,
which is the span between your walk and when you begin to enter the learning process that,
I think, starts with NLP, goes to hypnosis, goes to mesmerism,
and then circles back maybe to the walk and the events during it.
Right. Okay. Yeah.
Okay. So maybe if you can help prompt me, because I'll be coming up with a lot of things here,
which will be quite freeform.
So we spoke about, in the previous interview or conversation,
I prefer to put it, really, that we did.
There was the coast to coast walk that I mentioned,
and the particular section called the like wake walk, which was particularly important.
That's where I had my, what I'll call my Milky Way experience,
where I had the experience of connecting the heavens and the earth through my physical body.
It was a very visceral experience.
And after this walk, as I mentioned, returning back to London where I was living at the time.
So like I say, this was around 1990.
I ended up having, I was catapulted into a kind of,
what they would call in the alchemical tradition, kind of like a niggerado state.
So I felt a little bit like everything was disintegrating,
like I'd been ripped open and my psychic skin was really raw and bare.
I was able to sense everything around me, the vibrations of all of the people around me,
but in an uncomfortable way when I returned from doing that walk,
which was a very joyous experience.
It was, you know, an incredibly joyous experience doing that walk.
Like I say, returning to the city, returning to London at that time, very, very difficult.
The important thing is that during that time,
like I say, it was almost like entering into a type of depressive state,
but it also felt like I had terrible flu.
So it was almost like a physical state as well.
But as I was coming out of this, I started to come out of this
due to a series of dreams that I started to have.
This is where dreams become really important in this whole scenario we're speaking about.
So I started to have lots of dreams and in these dreams,
I think I touched on this in the previous part, but I didn't go into great detail.
In these dreams, there was a specific hill that was in these dreams.
It was very, very characteristic.
So it was the kind of thing that stuck in my head and it was a recurring dream as well.
And from the top of the hill,
I looked down the hill and there was some cornfields
and there was a river flowing through the cornfields.
And I even could see, because of the dreams,
the encounters with a particular figure in these dreams that I found,
there was a boat and it was on a river and this river was within the cornfield
that I could see down in the sloping valley in the veil seen from this particular hill.
And inside this boat was a goddess-like figure, a feminine figure.
And every time I got into the boat with her, we would go for a ride.
And every night, we would go a little further.
And this ride down the river was going from the vision of the hill,
from the view of the hill looking down, the river flowed left to the left.
So I got into the boat with her and every time I woke up,
I felt an immense surge of healing energy.
So this dream I noticed was beginning to act as a kind of medicine.
It was healing me every single night, every night that I had the dream.
I was looking forwards to actually being back there again.
And sure enough, every now and again, it kept coming back.
And this dream would just heal me a little bit more.
And this is what got me out of whatever it was I was in at the time.
Do you have any impression about...
How did you think about the woman, the boat and the river,
but particularly the woman, about her identity?
Was it a matter of concern to you?
Weirdly no. I just knew that she represented some kind of divine feminine force,
that she was somehow a personification of nature that I was meeting in this boat.
And that's all that really concerned me.
Can you describe her from your recollection?
I mean, maybe she doesn't have a specific appearance, but what do you recall?
Well, I do recall that she had long hair.
I do recall that she had a long dress.
I think it was white, if I remember.
I don't have a full recollection of that.
But the wooden rowing boat, I remember that.
The dreaming mind isn't as concerned with what I think it was particulars.
It doesn't need them.
But it was a cornfield. That I find significant.
The fact that it was a cornfield.
And this takes place looking down from Nap Hill.
That's right, but I didn't know it was called Nap Hill.
I see.
Now, I've mentioned this to you obviously in private.
But the thing is, I had no idea who this person was.
I had no idea where this place was.
It was a dream.
But you see, in 1994, in the summer, I think it was the summer of 1994,
there was a couple of friends of mine.
I used to work on markets in London.
I used to sell old 50s rock and roll collectible records
and 60s psychedelic stuff and things like that.
And a couple of my friends there,
I got chatting with them on the stall and they just said to me,
they knew I had a van and we had similar interests, we discovered.
And they said, should we take a trip out to the West Country?
Would you take us?
I said, sure, I'd love to do that.
So we got in the van and went looking for crop circles.
So this is in the summer of 1994.
And whereabouts are you when you're on this journey?
Yeah, you mean in terms of...
Geography, where are you going?
So we got in the car, in the van, and we drove out of London
and went over to the area of Avebury,
which is a really amazing place for those who've never been there.
Look it up.
It's in Wiltshire, which is in the West Country.
And we were looking around for all of these crop circles.
And we found one or two that day around Avebury,
around sort of in that vicinity, in the fields around...
Drive out of London to Avebury and you find crop circles
just without even knowing where you're going.
There's no internet, right?
No, there was no internet.
Just adventuring out in your van and you come across crop circles.
I find that kind of surprising, but I'm listening, please continue.
Well, as the story actually goes,
basically all three of us agreed
that all of the crop circles we found that day,
I think it was two or three we saw, were kind of just fake.
And it was kind of crop circle season.
Right, okay, I follow.
Yeah, so there were supposedly some around, or so they'd heard,
which is what spurred them on to want to go and do the trip.
So we went out there and all day we were looking for these things.
We found two or three, like I say,
and but we weren't convinced.
They seemed a bit scrappy and a bit kind of, you know,
like maybe some teenagers had knocked it up overnight, you know, sort of thing.
So we sort of, everyone was a bit disappointed.
We'd had a great trip out, but everyone was really tired
and it was the end of the day.
We'd been traipsing around all day through these fields
and cornfields and stuff.
And I just got this thought as a driver,
thought, oh, how about taking a different route?
Let's go just take a random route off
and go up through another route, another way.
Instead of going the main roads home, let's go off some other way.
So we did this and I didn't really know the area,
apart from maybe a couple of the main routes around there.
And all of a sudden, like as we were going through all of these open plains,
I suddenly saw the way the road swooped up to the right.
There was a track, a path coming away from the road.
And as soon as I saw this, I had this immense impetus, this impulse
to just stop the car and get out and walk up that track.
So I did.
And of course, they were really, really tired and they were complaining.
It's like, oh, we've not found anything.
We've been walking all day. We're really, really tired.
And we were supposed to be on the way home.
So I said, you can wait here.
And so they did. They waited in the van and I traipsed on up the track.
So I got out of the van, traipsed up the track,
and went to the top of this track, the top of a hill.
So when I got to the top, I stood there and looked down across the hill,
low and behold, I was absolutely transfixed by the fact that what I had in front of me
was exactly what I'd seen in my dreams at least five years earlier.
So back in, like I say, coming from the coast to coast back in 1990.
So about four or five years earlier, I'd seen this very, very place in my dreams.
You can't ignore that when that happens.
You're there looking at the scene and low and behold, there is the valley.
There is the river snaking through exactly the same place.
And while this is in my mind right now, I must mention this just in case it's not completed.
It's only about a month ago, I think just before our interview, the last interview we had,
that I met a lady through a mutual friend around here where I live.
And she actually revealed what I understand to be the actual name of this particular goddess that I'd come across.
Okay, this is the thing I was having for a pasty, right?
I sensed like she is someone who is she. I'm listening, yeah, please.
Right. Now, I feel it's maybe not the right circumstance to reveal that name.
Okay, I understand that.
Yeah.
And such things, there are some things that is important to keep private.
Yeah.
And also to not speak about.
That's right.
And I honor.
Visually, you can feel don't speak of it.
Yes.
Yes, good.
Yes, I honor this and understand.
Yeah.
But please continue.
I'm with you.
In actual fact, all I've mentioned up till this point, including the fact that there was this feminine figure.
It was a goddess figure.
It was there in the boat.
It was revealed in a dream.
These parts until very recently, I've had a do not speak about it.
Oh, wow.
Okay.
It's only now I'm beginning to speak about it.
Wow.
So do you have any sense of what the change, what changed that made you feel more comfortable to speak of it?
That's an interesting question.
In my physical body, my body is telling me it's okay to mention it.
It's a visceral sensation.
There's a stop feeling when you know that something is not the time to speak about it.
Yes, it's funny that you say that because, you know, we have this colloquialism in English, what we call the still small voice.
Right.
Right.
And also, I think, though I'm not an expert on this topic, Socrates's Daimon.
Yeah.
What it primarily did was just say no.
Yeah.
Didn't tell him what to do.
It didn't have, they didn't have conversations, at least not in the records that we have.
The one thing that we know about it is it tells him just don't, this is, don't do this.
Or it might say you made a mistake.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so there's this interesting in my own experience with this a couple of times in my life.
I heard it tell me it, whatever it is, right.
Don't.
Yes.
I'm like, no.
Yeah.
And not, and I've had other experiences of, you know, sort of a Daimonic intelligence or
whatever, but I honor that.
And I want to just mention that I have a close friend who works with neurodivergent people.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And her prime, one of her primary areas of expertise is a process called positive disintegration.
Okay.
And when you were talking about what took place when you returned to London, it has the
earmarks of this process.
Right.
And she talks about it as in, in a variety of senses, but it's, it's, it's quite fascinating
because she says that it's, it's a, it's a somatic array.
It's an array of somatic intelligences.
And you talk about feeling that you had the flu, but you also talk about having these
extra sensitivities where you can feel people's energy and things like this, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
But it sort of has the earmarks of this process.
I recognize from my recent discussion with her a similarity there.
Okay.
So you've, you've met a woman somewhat recently.
She revealed to you, and I presume that when she revealed this, it was resonant.
You were like, uh, or how did you feel?
Yeah.
Actually, I was absolutely gobsmacked because the very moment that, uh, and the odd thing
is the fact that I was describing this specific place also caused a huge reaction and huge
explosion for her also because she said that I can't believe the synchronicity of what
you're describing to me.
She said it was literally just last night for the very first time that I was earmarking
that very place you're telling me about to actually go and visit it.
Um, and then she revealed to me the actual name of the, of this particular, of this particular
goddess figure.
So it was kind of like a, a mutual explosive, amazing sort of cross flow of, of information.
And, uh, yes, I definitely feel it's not the, the right time to talk about the name.
I'm not saying I'm just the sake of theory, you know, to be, to be serious.
This is, this is trivial.
What we're doing here is, I mean, it's beautiful and profound for me and, and, you know, but
this is a, this is not the place for, for this kind of, um, I just honor the fact that
there's some things we shouldn't speak openly and particularly publicly or even on recordings
about.
Yeah.
Okay.
So I mean, I just have a couple of questions about this.
How did you come across this person?
How long have you known them?
What was the, tell me something about that.
That's the peculiar thing.
I, I'd never, well, actually, funnily enough, I'd, um, I'd seen this person a couple of
times.
Uh, and you know, there'd been an acknowledgement, um, like I was recognized and so on.
But, uh, there'd been no interaction and there's been no interaction since either.
Uh, it was purely just on this day.
I was there to meet someone else entirely and it happened to be one of these talks over
a coffee table that ended up sort of spilling out.
And, uh, oddly, you know, it somehow, probably because of the company I was in, the conversation
turned in that direction and, uh, and just strangely these hugely important missing fragments
of information that I'd been hanging on waiting for these extra pieces to arrive for years
and this very much touches on something central to my own personal attitude towards receiving
gnosis or, you know, how, how it happens with dreams, with, with actual encounters.
Um, whenever you receive anything, what seems to be significant at the time, I take quite
a, quite a detached, um, approach to it.
I don't let myself get overattached or, uh, overexcited by anything which seems significant.
What I tend to do is I tend to sort of earmark, earmark the events or earmark these things
and put them, put them on the shelf, so to speak, to let them hang around because I have
absolute faith or certainty in one way or another that these things will be answered
or I will understand their true significance even if I have to wait years for it to happen.
And this was a really good example of what, what I'm saying because I take life as one
whole if you like.
So there are things that we can might be experiencing now in our esoteric internal experiences.
In our dreams, in our personal revelations of any kind or synchronicities, significant
synchronicity, which I have no doubt we will find the answers to 20 years from now.
I have full faith of that.
There's no rush about this.
So it's, it's really interesting to hear you say this because I trust the wisdom of the
intelligences in you that have this sense of no need to get super excited about this,
put this on the shelf, let it, let it sort of, I don't know what the word is, right,
enriched by time or, you know, sort of like age, let it age.
Yeah.
Right.
And then in time, it will become clear.
The thing that I find funny about that is I'm completely the opposite and it gets me in
trouble.
I get super excited.
Right.
And so I can become so excited and enchanted that I get very spun up.
And then various things, it doesn't always lead to disaster, but sometimes it does.
I'm disoriented by the excitement and the enchantment.
And when one is disoriented, you know, untoward events may occur.
Okay.
So there's a number of threats here, and I have them fairly well organized in my mind.
You mentioned in private conversation earlier, the lightweight walk.
Why don't you tell the audience a little bit about the definitions of those two terms
and what they came to mean for you?
Right.
Okay.
So like I said, back in 1990, I undertook the lightweight walk, which was part of the
Coast to Coast Walk.
So I'll just recap very, very quickly from what I explained a little bit of in the previous
part.
No, we did.
England's a bit like a hand.
Coast Coast Walk, of course, goes directly from the East to the West Coast.
In the starting and ending places, if you don't mind.
Yeah.
So on the West Coast, sorry, on the West Coast, which would be, if this was the hand of England,
you know, this is Scotland up here, this is Northumbria, and here is the Pennine Ridge
running down the middle.
The Lake District over on the West is sort of where we started.
So it's kind of like from the West Coast over to the East Coast.
Of course, this would be Cornwall, London somewhere over here.
The Cornwall is a bit like where the thumb is.
So you would travel across starting starting starting, well, in this instance, I started
from the West Coast, going to the East.
Yes, but what is the place where you started the name?
So it's St. B's Head.
Great.
Thank you.
St. B's Head.
So going from St. B's Head, and then going across the Lake District, crossing the Pennine
Ridge, which was very peculiar, I've just remembered, I may as well say these things as they're coming
into my mind.
Crossing the Pennine Ridge, I ended up meeting an old couple on the top of the Pennine watershed,
really boggy watershed in mist, a really old couple who were happening to walk this particular
stretch of the Pennine Ridge.
And so I kind of started chatting to them in the middle of mist, in the middle of nowhere.
And I thought, this is interesting, this lady's, I said to the lady, old gent, old lady, I said
to the older lady, I said, your accent sounds quite familiar, like it sounds like it's from
where I grew up, which is a place called Aquarth, which I grew up in as a small child.
Which is an old oak grove, originally, it was part of an old druidic oak grove up on
a moor top.
And she said, oh yeah, I come from a place near to, near to Leeds, because don't forget
this is, the Pennine Ridge here, it's sort of on the way to, it's almost closer to Manchester,
really, at this particular point.
So she could have been from anywhere up north, but I said, no, she identified, I identified
her accent, she said, no, I'm from closer to Pontifract, Wakefield, outside of Leeds.
I said, oh, so am I, so am I.
She said, well, do you know a place called Aquarth?
I said, well, yes, it's the village I grew up in.
And she goes, oh, really?
She said, well, I lived on Moor Top in Aquarth.
I said, well, that's interesting, because I lived on Moor Top in Aquarth as well.
And it turned out, she said, oh, well, you know that big house near to the roundabout?
There's a, it used to be called, it's now called the Elm Tree Restaurant.
Well, that was my house when I was a child.
I said, well, my house is literally joined onto your house.
It's part, it's the coach house that belonged to your house.
She goes, oh, the coach house.
I said, yes.
So she was, she was literally my next door neighbour.
Her house was literally physically joined onto the house I grew up in.
Surely it has occurred to you that this might not be an ordinary couple?
It has, while I was actually speaking to you now, it kind of started to dawn upon me.
I was beginning to think, I was describing the mist and everything, and I was thinking
of, yeah, because what she's saying in a way is in code, right?
In a way that wouldn't necessarily reveal it.
She's saying, you and I have been associated our entire lives, right?
Which is the kind of thing that, for example, the moon might say.
Yes.
Yes.
You were speaking to the moon.
Yes.
It's very common in, I'm not making any claims about what took place with you, right?
Sure.
I'm just noticing that it's common in indigenous stories for a very elderly couple to appear.
Oh.
Right?
I didn't know this.
Yes.
Yes.
Very, very elderly couple appears, and they may appear frail or weak, and they often look
quite old, and it's very strange to find an elderly couple out in the middle of wherever
you were, wandering around in the mist, I mean, what are they doing?
I know what you're doing, and you're a young guy, and you're on a quest, and since you're
on a quest and you encounter an elderly couple, but in many cases, it's not clear to the people
at the time that the elderly couple represent the sun and the moon, but they often do, right?
And it's quite often that the sun may give a gift, or the moon may give knowledge.
But yes, I just can't help but notice the strange, like, it's not metaphor, there's
another word for it that I don't know what it is, but the-
The shape likeness in what she's saying.
Oh, you go through a series of steps, right?
Oh, you sound like, oh yes, you, you know, do you know this, you know, and then it just
traverses to, we've been there the whole time, like we've been together the whole time in
the strange way, right?
Our origins are linked up, right?
So that's very profound, and I'm grateful to hear that story.
I'm glad we've, I'm glad you came across it.
Please continue.
Yeah, a couple of other things have just dawned on me because you've pointed this out.
And that's the wonderful thing about doing these sessions with you is that, you know,
all of these new parts of insight suddenly spring up while I'm in the middle of speaking
to you.
So the Pennine Ridge is quite literally, I mean, it's known as the backbone of England,
but what's significant about this from the west to the east is that it's the threshold
between them.
So this watershed was quite literally the barrier, the physical barrier that divides
Yorkshire from Lancashire.
So you've heard of the War of the Roses, the red rose and the white rose, but they're
quite literally divided by these two sides.
And what's what suddenly came upon me is the fact that the old man was from Lancashire
and she was from Yorkshire, which was where I was from.
So so you literally had a Yorkshire man and a Yorkshire woman and a Lancashire man
on this particular threshold between the two halves of the walk.
Yeah, this curious, curious.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, beautiful, interesting, interesting.
It's wonderful to have these conversations just to document this stuff as well, you know,
because this is the thing, you know, when we it's often helpful to have a companion to
lead us along and help with the sort of the sequencing.
Right. But when you begin to recover, I'll just mention this very briefly.
So yeah, my roommate recently came to me and said, you know, totally up to you if you
want to do this.
But let's talk if you want, let's record like a life history thing.
And I'll say, OK, so we started doing this not for public sharing or anything for like
my own use.
And, you know, all those things started lighting up because you're you're resurrecting these
moments and they link, they start to link together and the whole map starts to light
up and that brings to mind perspectives you haven't, you know, perhaps you haven't seen
before.
So let's not get too sidetracked by that.
Please, please continue.
So you come across the couple.
Go ahead.
Yeah, yeah, I came across the couple and it was on this particular threshold area.
I mentioned it was a watershed as well.
So basically, all of the rivers flow flow down from this place over the Pennine Ridge
itself.
So so it's a source of rivers and lakes.
So where is I going with this?
So after this point, of course, you cross over and then you're going into East Yorkshire,
into the east part of the country and into Yorkshire.
And then it's from there that you pick up after after a very small area, I think it's
called Appleby, Westmoreland.
Remember, we walked through a place called Appleby in Westmoreland.
And you go through there.
That was a very beautiful area.
It's almost like a very Edenic, very, very Edenic kind of feel very lush and green and
full of apple blossoms and apple trees.
And that was an interesting place as well, because that had that some resonance later,
but I won't talk about that now.
And then you join on to the beginning of the Like Wake Walk.
So I think you mentioned a little earlier, tell everyone about the Like Wake Walk itself.
The meanings of the words and how you.
Yeah. So the Like Wake Walk.
Um, like L, Y, K, E.
So the like is the corpse itself.
But another interpretation is the double, that which is a like to you, that which is like you.
But if you're departed and if you're if you're departed, so in like in the Egyptian
cosmology, to call it that, you have the cat or the mummy, the mummia, the body, the corpse, the like.
And then above that, you have the car and the car is like the ghost body.
So the more closer to the ghost body, if you like, so it's the habitual body.
Um, in Kabbalistic terminology, they would call it like the nefesh, the animal soul.
That which hangs around the body or hangs around the corpse.
So if you were, say, for example, the like from the point of view of the nefesh or from
the point of view of the car, you would be separated from your physical body, but close to it.
So the like is your double, your doppelganger in some sense.
And the wake is like in in Irish, you know, in Irish ceremonies, when you have somebody
who's passed over, they hold a wake.
So the wake is is the celebration of the person's life.
And you usually have a good old knees up, you know, around the grave of the person.
He's quite often with the person physically present there in the room.
So that's the traditional Irish style of having a wake celebration of the person's life.
Now, this is the like wake walk.
It covers 40 miles.
And this 40 mile expanse, which 40 miles in itself is obviously heavily symbolic as well,
because it's the number 40 is always linked with passengers of moving from one state to
another, like 40 days and 40 nights in the biblical symbolism.
Yes, you have quite often in quite a lot of Tibetan Buddhist internal work, they have
like 40 day passages through dark through darkness, or should we say a 40 40 day and
40 night passage through darkness, just total darkness in some of their works.
With five days on either side, right, as like the lead in, then you have one moon and
then the string out, yes, so you get similar.
It's like it's it's a it could be understood as a lifespan, even I'm with you.
Please continue.
Yeah, yeah, I think I think indeed indeed.
And so the it was on this particular part of the walk, the like wake walk over this 40
mile expanse, which that's where I saw them where I had my Milky Way experience, which
was incredibly profound, incredibly significant for everything that followed.
Say a little bit about the experience again, even though I'm sure you have previously.
I did, but I can go a little more into granular detail this time.
So, so it was the time of year.
Let's see, it was the beginning of August, end of August, beginning of September.
And this point in time was deliberately chosen, because it wouldn't be too searingly hot.
So it was the end of summer coming into into autumn.
So there was the weather was kind of quite temperate, but I do remember the entire walk
up to this point had actually been quite, quite bloody hot actually, all through the
Lake District and so on, apart from maybe some misty and rainy days halfway through on the
Pennine Ridge.
So going on to lightweight walk, these incredibly blue, sonic blue sky, but the like
wake walk itself passes through this 40 mile expanse known as Winnie Moore.
Now, Winnie Moore is actually in old English means the Wine Red Moor, Winnie Wine Red.
So the Wine Red Winnie Moor.
So you're passing through the Winnie Moor.
So it's a form of abyss.
It's a type of abyssal symbolism.
And what it actually I've later come to understand, what I've actually come to understand it means
is that you're actually passing through the menstruation period of the goddess.
Beautiful.
Because the track takes you through the track of death.
So it's very Scorpio laden.
It's very, very scorpionic Scorpio symbolism, but it's all Wine Red.
It's like a menstruation period.
Now, this is interesting.
And it just dawned on me right now, as I'm speaking, that perhaps this is why and where
the goddess symbolism came from that led me out of the dream, which is really amazing
how that's just dawned on me.
So.
Truly, you know, I mean, some quite revelatory thoughts come to me even while speaking here
now.
It's so beautiful.
This is what I'm hoping for.
Yes.
Yeah.
And the actual the actual track is laden with marker points, marker posts.
And those marker posts are actually carved.
I have a book with me.
I'll show you some pictures.
I'll try and find some pictures.
Yes.
The marker posts themselves.
And an ancient pagan standing stones, which mark the track, some of them have been turned
into some of them have been turned into crosses were carved into Celtic crosses.
Here we go.
But quite a few of them are still pagan standing stones.
And this is I don't know if you can see.
Yes.
Oh, this face, this face here and some of them are just many as typical many as so over
the 40 mile expanse, the way you find your way is by spotting these stones on the hill
ridges as you're walking along the track.
And all of the heather, the reason why it's the wine red more is because all of the heather
goes sonic purple red.
So with the blue sky and the sonic purple red, the weather had been very much like this clear,
clear blue, sonic purple red, and these standing stones marking the way along the way.
And some of them are are actually goddess stones as well.
One of them is called fact Betty.
Hmm.
So so there we have it.
That's actually the the destination of where it goes raven scar right.
So that's that's the where you actually stop Raven scar and the actual emblem for the
walking for the lightweight walk is a coffin with a candle inside.
Uh huh.
Interestingly, I decided to light a candle before I actually started this interview.
So there you go.
A little bit more information there for you, but it came across to me very much that the
wine red more is that is actually the menstruation of the goddess.
Yes.
That's crucially beautiful.
We can return to this topic, but I want to keep on the thread that we're on.
And I'm trying to carefully track that.
So describe a little bit more about the experience.
So I'm just going to say something briefly.
Sure.
There was a phase before my own experience where I used to practice a sort of a Tai Chi
Qi Gong practice, actually, where basically my teacher had taught us to gather up the
energy from the earth, bring it up into the body, distribute it up into the sky, right,
into the universe, and then draw the universal energy back down into our body and down into
the earth.
Yeah.
So you basically just you lean over, you pick up the energy bent over, you draw it up into
your bodies with an in breath, you, you know, you send it up with an out breath.
You draw it back with an in breath, you send it down with an out breath.
Yeah.
And I added to that practice that I was drawing the love of the planet all together, all the
animals, all the living places, all the histories that love into the energy and then,
you know, sort of like many branches of a tree sending that love out into the universe,
literally saying like, we love you, we remember you, we adore you.
And then the same thing back, right, we love you, we remember you, we adore you back into
the earth.
I used to do this all the time, without having any complex intellectual about it, right.
And when you talked about your experience with the Milky Way, I was reminded of this,
this practice, right.
So please share whatever comes to mind about the experience.
Yeah, so it had been really hot, I remember, during that day.
And there was a, I put up the tent in the middle of this moor, and I chose to put the
tent in a field at the side of an inn.
An inn, so it was like a pub, an inn, in the middle of nowhere.
And I went into the pub, and in those days, I hardly used to drink at all, I used to have
like lime and soda, something like that, you know, like I wasn't even drinking.
I went into the pub, and had a couple of these lime and sodas or whatever, and came back
out to the tent.
And I was shocked to find that after the sun had gone down, that there was a, there was
a light frost on the ground, because the moors out there were very exposed.
And there was a couple of other things I learned at that time as well, which taught me some
really interesting things to do with the action of the sun upon the earth, and interacting
with the earth and the waters, which actually led me to some really, really quite amazing
understandings of the entire process of nature.
I was going to use the word, it taught me quite a lot of the secrets of alchemy, but
that sounds really grandiose, but it truly did, and I'll explain a little more of that
later, but that day the frost was on the ground, or that evening the frost was on the ground,
the temperature had dropped quite, quite a lot, and because it was so cold, and because
the sky was so clear, and because there was no light pollution whatsoever, I looked at
the frost, crunch, crunch, crunch, feet on the floor, crunch, crunch, crunch, so my attention
was diverted down by the crunching, and then I lifted my head up, I wanted to just instinctively
wanted to know what was right above me, so crunching feet lifted up the head, the trajectory
of my vision literally caught from the very moment my head was lifted, the whole path
of the Milky Way just shot up in front of me, and above me, all the way behind me, and
it felt like the entire thing from right above me, right through my feet, just, the two things
just collided like a huge bang, and this intense visceral feeling of absolute connectivity,
like an explosion coming from within the core of me, reaching out forever, everything
met in that moment, so there was something really, really special about it, it was like
yoga in the true sense of the word, true union, so beautiful, yeah, it was, it was, it really
was touching for some reason to hear this story, yeah, please continue, it ever since
that time, I've not been able to comprehend anything as separate, what a gift, what a
healing inversion, yeah, it also comes with a great price though it seems, because the
although that's a huge understanding in and of itself, and like you say, it could be seen
to be a gift, it's, I think the Buddhists would have called it, you know, it leads to the
vision of universal sorrow, in the sense that although you understand the pure joy that's
behind everything, you can see and sense and this is what led me to that sorrow when I came
back to the city, there was this understanding that everyone is so disconnected from that
reality, that such great pain and suffering results because of the lack of understanding of the
connectivity. And I understood that all healing is rooted in bringing people back to that sense of
connectivity. Yes, and thus, in some sense, perhaps you will understand, I'd be surprised if you
didn't what I mean when I say, I'll try. I doubt you'll have any trouble. Many of my closest friends,
these are people who I would call bridge, bridge souls, right, they join, they join to ordinarily
disparate. I'm looking at my reflection, it's backwards, so my I'm missing the wrong app. Yeah,
they join to ordinarily disparate people's places, histories, futures. So for example, one of my
friends, Ryan first diver, he's a Blackfoot beaver man. And he's so in, in the Blackfoot
traditional, in their, in their traditional life, the beaver man is the central ceremonial. All the,
all the other societies orbit the beaver bundle tradition. And so he's, and he's half, you know,
he's half Caucasian too. So, so he joins like the colonizers and the Blackfoot people. He also
takes care of rabbi snakes there. So they are protected there. So he joins the snake people
to the, to the regular people. He's like this bridge between five or six different things. I
just use him as an example, because he's a great example of this. But many of my close friends
are like this, they're, they're the between, right? And even when you're telling the story,
you're saying like, the sky came down and the earth, and they, you know, they joined, right?
Yeah. So it's a, but, but say more about,
was it painful for you? In, in what time, what respect? Right. You say that
you weren't able to see things as separate. And I say, that's a gift. And you say, yes, but there's
a price. Yes, it seems there is a price. And the price have bite in you? Yeah, it can do. It can do
because, because sometimes, you know, if sometimes you, you can't, it's, it's quite, it's quite difficult
to sometimes see the, the disconnection, the lack of connectivity, I think is the,
the way to put it with, with certain individuals, the, you know, it's quite painful to see the lack
of connectivity that they actually have. And there's nothing you can, there's nothing you
can do. The only thing you can do is do things in an incredibly subtle way to help coax people
towards this experience or this understanding. So that brings up a topic that I think you'll,
that I think is relevant here. Yeah. And as it relates to human communication in general.
Yes. The difference, the common difference between men and women. Yeah. And hypnosis, NLP,
perhaps mesmerism, but certainly the idea of suggestion, which is something,
this is a topic we didn't properly explore previously. One of my bookmarks. So
I've noticed, I've always tended to emulate girls. When I was in elementary school,
they were the high performers, they could do seven things, the boys could do two.
I emulated the girls, right. And I learned very quickly that that was a much faster path to progress.
And the women are masters of indirection, generally speaking, right. They can suggest very
subtly something. They're very cautious about making direct statements because they can then
be held the task board later. And they've been historically subjected to masculine
inquisition, like a billion times per lifetime, right? Every woman, right? Masculine in inquisition,
you know. So where am I going with this?
I myself have realized, we spoke briefly of this in the last interview,
that there are problems with declarative statements. And what you were saying was,
essentially what you can do has to be very subtle. By which I think you mean indirect and
suggestive rather than the typical masculine thing is just to go like, well, of course,
you just do this, right? You just tell them, here's the problem. Here's the solution, right? The guy,
you know, what brings out his toolbox, you know, and often doesn't, there's no subtlety
whatsoever. And there's also no sensitivity to the other person's sort of where they are in the
process. What might be appropriate at this moment or in that in the phase of the process that they're
in? Yeah, yeah. So yeah, please, anything that comes to mind about this? Well, once again,
I mean, there's two things, obviously, there's the therapeutic approaches, there's the actual
use of these things for therapy within a therapeutic setting, which is one thing. And then
there's the things that we encounter and the things we experience in daily, everyday life,
in terms of how we, what we see around us, the types of interactions you see amongst people you
know, friends that you may have and so on and so on. And just generally, I mean, like you say, you've
studied language patterns and so on and so forth. It's amazing how, I think, I think NLP, just to
talk about that for a moment, that really highlighted, you know, the old saying, the map is not the
territory. It's kind of what I'm talking about, that disconnect that some individuals have between
what's going on in their own minds and how they choose to communicate those ideas.
And such things, simple things as the art of conversation and so on. Now,
it seems, I don't know if I'm right or wrong by saying this, but I've noticed a marked increase.
I'd be interested in your opinion on this, a marked increase in a kind of almost a fragmentation
of the ability to communicate in a meaningful manner, in a way whereby individuals can actually
have meaningful conversations where people have the ability to listen and have the ability to speak
and be heard. This cross flow, this dance, which seemed to be so much part of everyday life,
seems to be becoming rarer and rarer, I would say, in the last
three or four years. And I don't know if that's experiencing this.
Yeah, there's some kind of a, you know, my friend was using the phrase
positive disintegration. I'm not sure it's positive, there's certainly a disintegration going on.
And I would, you know, we can talk about this. I want to be careful to preserve the threads.
So one of the things I pay attention to is a neologism that occurred to me at the beginning
of my experience of whatever it was I, the experience was where I imagined the network
of human minds as a place, as a physical environment. And I call that the human cognizium.
There are cognizia all around us that feed into ours. But the human cognizium is undergoing
a series of what look like catastrophic fragmentations to me. And that's being reflected in
dissonance in human communication. And particularly in our perceptions related,
I mean, this is kind of a running joke at the moment, but in our perceptions related to identity.
Right. Someone is what something is, why it's function. And I was talking with a friend last
night, and we often have very playful, revelatory conversations. And I suggested to him that without
us knowing it, over the past few years, the world is no longer the world. Like it's a completely
different thing. Now, it looks the same on the outside. It seems to be, we all think it's the
same thing, but it's not that thing anymore. It's a different thing. And so we were sort of playfully,
I was suggesting that we could experiment by sending signals to the world, like pinging it,
like in a submarine, right? When you ping another submarine, you could ping the world and see
what it brings back so that you could get a sense of what whatever it has become,
or what it is becoming. Yeah. Well, I think that that's to some extent, what we're kind of doing
now is, I think that part of the thing that's certainly driving me on to speak about these
things and maybe driving you on to speak about these things is because it feels like an important
time to speak of these things in a way where one hopes others are going to be
giving us some feedback with regards to what's going on. Yes, drawn into the conversation
and fascinated and curious and have a sense of wonder and exploration with us. Absolutely.
Yes, yes. As if maybe we are, what, I can't quite find the word. It's strange because
in a way you can, I imagine something, actually this, I don't know why, but it's bringing,
it makes me feel tearful. I imagine two magicians, not that I'm claiming to be one or that you
claim to be one, but I imagine two magicians playfully getting together on stage and embodying
the curiosity and passion and life paths of the audience without the magicians themselves knowing
it, right? And then engaging in this play on the stage that enlightens the magicians
as the avatars of the audience, something like this, right? And what a beautiful,
what a beautiful, like ecstatic figure. Yeah, absolutely. And I feel that we're at a very,
very interesting time, most definitely certainly a very, very interesting time because I think,
I'm not sure if I remember, if I actually said this to you last time or whether I said it to you
in private on another occasion, but I really feel like we're at, we're at a really, really
important point in terms of this communication we're speaking about. Yes. Communicating ideas.
There's something really quite important about this type of work, you know, sharing these things
that we're doing right now. Otherwise, I wouldn't be here. You know, I'm sure you wouldn't be here
either doing what you're doing if you didn't feel this, this same, almost a duty to be speaking.
Yes, urgency, urgency. Literally, it's an emerge and see, right? It's an emerge and see. Right.
Emergency, right? Yes, yes. And yes, it is. It does seem very urgent and very, there are many
people who are, who they are dying inside. They're completely lost, you know, and I'm not entirely
I'm free of that myself. Right. I think all of us are to some extent, you know, experiencing
the hardships of the age that we're living within. That's for sure. Yes. I think many would be very,
would possibly be foolish to say they're not. But at the same time, I think it's a really,
really, a really incredibly hopeful time. And at a time where some, some incredible new
points, there's a type of regeneration that seems to be taking place at the moment.
And I feel a new opening for these types of explorations in a way that I've never quite seen
to this extent before. No, I really do. I really feel like we're, we're on
without claiming to be in any sense, you know, grandiose or an expert on these subjects, I'd
just say, very happy to be part of opening the conversation. Yes, I agree. And I don't,
I mean, one of the things that I'm, I'm learning more about that it's been clear to me as an
artist for a long time is that personal identity is kind of a trap. Right. So the, the, the, yes,
I understand. Obviously, I have some concern about Darren and his life and his whatever,
right? His opportunities and so forth. But it's much more fascinating
of the layers above Darren and beneath Darren. Yeah, yeah. Travel there together, right? Yeah.
You know, something very strange is going on. I made a recording recently where I, where I said,
I think the recording is just called 2024 is not a year.
This, like, there's no more of whatever the hell was going on before has been thrown up into
the suspended sort of cloud storm state. And nobody understands what the hell is going on anymore.
Or if they do, it's just because they're clinging to the teddy bear of their previous
suppositions about the world like desperately. But yeah, it really is something profound,
because on the one hand, there's all these new opportunities. And on the other hand,
there's this catastrophic and agonic, you know, dissolution and pain and death.
So yeah, I don't want to use the trope from Shakespeare. So I'll just suggest that without
saying it. Okay, so there's so much more. And by the way, how are we doing on time? I'm fine,
but I want to I'm okay. I'm okay for for time at the moment as well. Yeah, I think I'm excited to
continue. So
okay, so what happened that night, the frost, you look up the thing, the whole thing. Yeah,
yeah, as I explained. And what was I feeling at that moment? What was I feeling? As I say,
just just this incredible energetic connectivity. And I felt like I was touching eternity,
quite literally like touching eternity. And that experience, strangely, I had
I kind of discovered how to switch it back on at will. Oh, beautiful.
But this came much later. But whenever I did switch it on at will, it reminded me immediately of
that moment once again, you know, so like, immediate recognition of that experience.
So that what I'm referring to is, and this touches on the courses that I do and things
like this back here in in England, I do them elsewhere, occasionally, if people ask me as
well. But one of the very important little bit about those. Yeah, yeah. So like I, I do
every year, I try to do one, maybe two courses in usually they're advertised as mesmerism,
fascination, presence. I mean, this is how you and I connected. Yeah, good. I think I said on
part part one of this that it was about about nine years ago or so that we actually first
connected. But I think it was more than that. It was actually, I think it was more like 12,
actually, I started doing I started doing those courses about 12 years ago now.
Mesmerism, fascination and presence. So obviously, the thing I do sort of every year is hold
these courses. Mesmerism is a, for those who don't know, is a type of hypnosis is an earlier
type of hypnosis, more of a nonverbal form of hypnosis. And it was popularized by France on
Mesmer, hence the term mesmerism. When was he active? Yeah, so this was sort of in the in the
1700s, so mid 1700s. And it was just prior to the French Revolution, actually, he was around
just prior to the French Revolution doing a lot of his work. He was connected with some quite
interesting people. I don't know if you know this, but he was he had his
a thing called the glass harmonica, which was an actual instrument.
Yes, I know about this instrument. Please. And the classical piece of music, Moonlight Sonata
was written for this instrument. Yeah, so what this is is it's a series of rings glass. Yeah.
It's like a it's like a plate with a with a ring around the edge of the plate,
tube sort of. And these are put on a spindle. And it's a it's a cone. Yes. Perhaps there are
either pedals or keys, pedals, yeah, pedals, and then and then a little tray of water to dip
your fingertips in that you can actually rub on to the. Oh, wow. Okay. Yeah. So the spindle spins
and you get the sound that's like what you get when you circle a crystal bell or glass. Precisely,
precisely. Yes, profoundly non ordinary sound. Absolutely. It's like a harmonic. It's almost
like being able to play an instrument that only produces harmonics, which themselves are kind of
a magical thing. Absolutely. And so and so like I say, Moonlight Sonata was composed
with this instrument in mind. Then and then Benjamin Franklin actually gifted this instrument. He
had one made and gifted it to Mesma. Oh, wow. Yeah, there's one in London, actually, there's
Franklin Museum, I think, in London, and there's an example of it there.
I've never seen one. Have you seen one? Yeah, yeah, like I say, there's actually been one,
there's one on display there in London. Or there was some years ago, I spent a long, long time
since I've seen it, but there was there was actually a model of it. I don't want to branch,
but I'm curious, have you ever been in the place where one is being played?
I haven't heard one being played, I have to say. No, no.
But you have heard recordings of them? Oh, yes, for sure. Yeah, me too. I remember
adopting this and just being blown away and thinking like I must find a way to have one of
these when I first heard it. Yeah. Well, the thing is, is the actual tones themselves,
Mesma believed that the tones themselves catapulted the individuals who heard them
because of the tones actually activated certain states or trans states in themselves.
Yeah, those themselves activated some of these states. So, so that's interesting.
Yes, I have a sort of peculiar personal sensitivity to anything that produces a
non-ordinary effect or, you know, like in terms of Stephen King's book like The Shining,
the certain features or facets of reality, they don't, it's not like a visual shine,
it's like a spiritual shine to them. They resonate, they ring, right? You can tell like,
oh, here's one of the hidden keys. Yeah. And two very obvious features of this for me that were
apparent in childhood were spiders and they make web, they're making of webs, right? Just
watch them make what is going on there. There's some, that's, you could study just that one thing
and it would lead you everywhere you needed to go, right? It's like a master key to every library
hidden in an organism. Yes. And then similarly, another place where a similar key is hidden,
a living key is in the praying mantises. Ah, yes, I've noticed you're particularly keen on
mantises. But let's not branch too far. So, what were the precursors that led Mesmer to his discoveries,
do you think? Right, okay. So, when Mesmer was, I think when Mesmer's career was just beginning,
when he was first, he was first introduced to the concept of magnetism from a priest,
I forget the name of the priest. Fair enough. But he introduced him the concept of magnetism
and he utilised actual magnets. Wow. On different points of the body.
Though some esoteric priests have actually done this and used this therapy in different ways.
But of course, you and I both know that the power isn't necessarily in the magnets, is it?
No. Great, okay, please continue. Yeah, so Mesmer himself
you know, quickly junked the use of the magnets. And sort of really concentrated more on the
natural ability that we all have as individuals. So, we call the animal magnetism because of the
fact that the animal kingdom exhibits this force in abundance. But we humans kind of
don't seem to believe we have it, but clearly we do. And certain individuals seem to have had it in
historical epochs, perhaps more than others. And there are famous examples of this.
And so, you know, some people, they thought of it as charisma or something like this,
which itself, you know, the word charisma relates to the golden anointing.
So, this force is something all individuals have at different levels. So, it's a natural ability,
natural ability. I would suggest that if you wanted to see a clear example of it,
that's commonly accessible, the gaze of infants. Oh, yes. Right? Oh, yes, yes, yes.
Absolutely. I use this. I think they're actually surprised. I think the infants can be surprised
when it fails. Right? Right. Because they know, they seem to know that it works. But yes, match
gaze with an infant or a very young child, and you will see directly an example of the kind of
thing I think you're talking about. And I would also suggest that praying mantises are doing
something very similar, right? There's a reason why a creature this big can terrify a grizzly bear.
Right. Right. And then it's screaming for the woods, you know. Right. Right. It's not an accident,
and it's not just a visual display. Yeah. Yeah. Please continue. Yeah. Yeah. So, basically,
where was I going with this? Well, you said that certain people were clearly more so.
Yeah. Animal magnetism. The humans don't necessarily believe they have it, but we do,
and some people either have sort of a greater capacity and or develop it.
Right. Yeah. So, it's something that is there in abundance in the animal kingdom. I was talking
about the example of snakes on the previous part we were doing, you know. And basically,
it's not just not just the vision, not just the gaze that they exert, but it's also
everything else. It's the actual awareness of the physicality of their existence in this present
moment. So, this is where we link back to the Milky Way experience, because the key component
is the physical presence. The key component that empowers all of those other techniques
is the physical moment by moment awareness of your existence or of each one of our existence.
So, by contacting that, we generate through the conscious awareness of our physical existence,
we generate a kind of a field and we switch it on. So, that experience that I had with the heavens
and the earth and me sandwiched or hit between them was very much a moment where the crunching of
the feet, the stars above my head, me between the biting of the chill of the air on what had been
a really hot day. Yeah. It's like a rod ringing. Yes. Yes. And it's the origin world
and the physical earth. Yes. Eating and sort of mating and resonating. Yeah. Yes, absolutely.
Absolutely. So, I was talking about the alchemical components of this. And of course, the actual
earth that I was walking upon at that particular point in the path was pure peat,
jet black peat. So, the moorlands have the blackest peat I've ever seen in my life.
And like I say, even at certain other points like the Pennine Ridge,
you'd be walking on the peat, on that particular part of the walk. You'd be walking upon the peat
and the black soil of the peat, which the Egyptians used to call chem, by the way.
So, chem, k-h-e-m. Which chemet comes from. Which chemet comes from. So, it was the actual
residue cast up from the Nile over and over again would bring all of this fertile peat onto the
surface or the silt. So, that would be the thing that would give the fertility and bring the fertility
to the land. And of course, the like- Almost like a menstrual exudate of the river. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
Exactly this. Exactly this. Exactly this. So, you have the Nile delta with this,
you say, you know, with this exudate coming out and fertilizing all of the land around it.
Oh my god. We're starting to get all Egyptian again here. Yeah. But this fragmentation
and of course, the fragmentation and the whole art of healing is to bring back together that which
is scattered. So, the body of Osiris, of course, represents like all the shamanic myths, you know,
the body is scattered to the forewinds, so to speak. And Isis was the one that got the separation
from the land, turned herself into the hawk, looked down upon the land and discovered the
fragments scattered across the land and brought them back together again to actually make the
first mummy, which was the resurrection of Osiris from the world of the dead. It strikes me that the
eye of Toth is actually related to the eye of the Kestrel. Right. Little hawk. The desert hawk.
Which you can't really see it, but this image is an image, a very complex magical image of Kestrel.
Inside the frame behind you. Yes, yes.
It also implies rising above the human or even the temporal, right, into the what might, what
Oman Hillman calls the aonic life. Right, right. The life outside of time is not just outside of
location in space, it's outside of location in time. And from there, you can find all the pieces.
Yeah, speak. And again, now here again, we have this concept of the bridge being.
Absolutely. Right, the bridge being who becomes sort of a linchpin above all of these fragments,
linking them together, and then perhaps drawing them back down into a being, a situation,
a place, the healing. Please continue. Well, exactly. One of my big questions today
was basically, okay, so what is healing anyway, in its truest sense, you know, we can
have some fairly simple examples like, oh, you know, you want to heal bad eyesight, you want to heal,
I don't know, a throat condition or something like that. We've got these small examples of
healing. But of course, the healing we're speaking of really, when we're speaking of sacred healing,
is we're talking about like, it's an overused term, but you know, making something,
bringing the holism, bringing the bringing something back to a sense of holiness.
Yes. There is also a feature of an amnesis, you're right, yes, forgetting, which, you know,
not everyone knows this, but the word lethal, that comes from the River Lefe,
right, yes, in between our lives. And there's a bunch of sort of
narratological arcs around why we here on earth forget our previous incarnations or perhaps
embodiments. So yes, there's an unforgettable aspect, because it's weird, you know,
it's almost as if in some of us, in some features of our lives, we specifically bury some part of us
that is fragmented by a situation. And then we enact a drama.
Personally, a personal drama, I have done this, right? It's embarrassing, but I know I'm aware of it.
We humans are sometimes embarrassing. It's true. So I will enact a drama about the part of myself
that I dissociated from and hid from. And the drama is very mythic, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Often. In transactional analysis, there's a concept of life scripts,
yeah, right, which which are coping mechanisms often established in childhood that are useful,
sort of fairy tale-ish, right? But when they are not conscious in our adult lives, when they're
no longer really necessary, and we have the capacity to negotiate and work with what's
actually going on, it's helpful for us to make conscious this life script, this mythic story
that we've been playing out. And perhaps rewrite it, right?
Yeah. And the thing is, of course, if we go into the much, much bigger, wider picture,
I mean, I've said, and this leads on to a lot of the things I was going to say about the hill
that I was talking about, it all points to and leads to many details, which confirmed for me,
in various ways, the threads, the connective threads to actually weave me back to my
previous incarnations, so to speak.
Oh, wow.
And this is where this becomes really important. And this is where I gain this
peace and faith, for want of a better word, of this
process that whenever I receive any of these pieces, whenever I receive any of these fragments,
I don't worry about chasing them, because I know, I absolutely know that all I have to do is wait,
because there's going to be a time where, like I said, with the individual that I met over a
coffee table who told me the name, I knew with certainty, I wasn't even looking for it, I knew
with certainty that this was the name, and I knew at that moment that all I have to do
is call on that name.
And I didn't chase it.
And all these little fragments that I've parked on the shelf and just
bookmarked them, put them on the shelf, and waited.
What it is, is it's all the fragments that I know, that as long as I keep myself open
to all of these possibilities, that everything that belongs to my trajectory, my journey through
time and eternity, is all going to come to me. I don't think the purpose of our current incarnation
is necessarily to chase after all of these missing fragments, but they play a really
important part and they will come to us anyway. So sometimes I might wake up and be woken up
by a repeat, I will be repeating to myself a specific set of words, or a specific word,
and sometimes it's not even, it's in a language I don't even know what it is.
The important thing is, is that I remember it, I write it down, and it sticks with me.
The other important thing about these things is because they're explained later,
and sometimes each one of these phrases and words are like a key that opens up
a whole insight into another area. But sometimes it takes five, seven years before I get the next part.
So I'm just sharing with you how for me these things work, these little fragments,
which seem to belong to a, I'm sort of lost for words, but like a kind of fragmenting,
fragments of like a weaving tapestry that belongs to many other incarnations that
have existed from times before. So there's a, there's a, what a figure that perhaps might be
useful or helpful here. Yeah, I call it the starry blanket. And one can imagine that over time,
many lives, they are sewing in a sense, in the sense of like needlework. They're sewing a sort of
a celestial blanket with acts of beauty and intelligence and courage and rescue and healing,
and that our souls are actually drawn from stars in this blanket, many of them, right? So our soul
isn't one thing. It's like a set of connections between historical beings and places and moments
and such. And then as we live, we are adding to this blanket, right? And it might seem fragmentary
from down here, where the star and that star and the moon and that planet and so forth. But from up
there, it's not fragmentary, right? No, no, it's fragmentary because of our relationship with linear
time, I think primarily. That's right. That's right. Absolutely right. Yeah. Because of our
relationship with linear time. This is the thing that you doubt. This is the thing you learn to
doubt, right? And that's why you're not concerned with urgencies. When you find the fragment,
you place it on the shelf, you know, linear time is an illusion. That's it. So over, you will traverse
the illusion of linear time and the integration will naturally. That's it. That's it. I couldn't
have put it better myself. But you've put into words what I kind of viscerally feel. Because it
is a feeling, you know, it's a feeling that there is no need to, you know, there is no need to be too
concerned about it. Although like we said earlier, there is a certain, there is a feeling of a sense
of urgency right now in some of the things we're discussing and communicating and sharing.
I understand your point of view on that. But for me personally, in relation to these experiences,
it comes across to me personally in very much a way where it's like, right, okay, okay, I'm just
getting another little, little bit of confirmation of my, I want to have a better word,
my connection with
eternity. Yeah, I mean, connection is not essentially, it's more your identity as in
eternity. Yeah, yeah. Like you and eternity are the same thing, even though there's the milky way
and there's Lee. It's true for all of us. Yes, yes, it is. But and it's so profound because
when, like in our conversation now, you have two disparate sort of wanderers, right? And they both
had these long paths. But when they come together, there's this profound
conversation, which is a kind of a musical composition, the spoken language of which
is in a sense the least important thing, even though it's the, it's the glass harmonica of our
souls sort of resonating back and forth. Yes, yes. I want to return to something you were
speaking about earlier, unless there's something urgently that you need to share right now. No,
no, please, please go ahead. Okay, so what is the gaze? Yeah, we've been taught, and I'm sure
you'll, you'll have some things to add here, but I want to introduce this topic. We've been taught
that what we see is passive, right, that our eyes are receptors for light, that all that's
happening in vision is that we receive the reflected light of things around us and the brain
organizes that into a sort of a picture in consciousness, right? It flips it over on the
back of the retina. We know we have the scientific explanation of the mechanics of human vision.
But for most of human history, none of that was what was being understood. The Greeks were
absolutely aware, and I can't explain the complexities of their awareness and understanding
of this fact, but that the eyes project its participatory, just as in, just as when you
speak, my ear rings, and I hear something very similar is happening with vision. It is kind of a
speaking of energies into the world, which then press and touch in their various intentional
ways, the flower or the cloud or the ball. And then this returns the sort of resonance of how
we reached out to touch and the purposes for which we reached out to touch affect the world,
and this effect returns to us as a vision. Now, yes, say one more thing before I hand this over
to you, because I'm desperately curious about what you think about these things. I've had the
experience of waking up in my bed, looking around my room, seeing how things are laid out, my girlfriend
next to me on the bed, the shape of her hair on the pillow and so forth, and then realizing
that my eyes are closed. And opening my eyes and having nothing effectively changed, except
a feature of the feeling of the origin of the seeing. Yes, yes. So it's very clear to me that
it is possible to see without eyes. Yes. Now, I'll hand this over to you and whatever. Yeah, I'd
love to get it. Yes, yes. Well, if we refer back to part one of the conversation we had last time,
we were talking about the sun, you know, and we were talking about where is the sun, you know,
we can point to it in the sky and all of this sort of stuff. And yeah, there's the sun and the rest
of it. But like we were talking about seeing the sun in dreams, feeling the sun upon your skin in
dreams and so on. And where is the sun in a dream, you know, it's like, where is it? Where is the
sun you actually see? Where is it? You know, where is it? The whole also the whole notion of
the heliocentric theory and the geocentric theory, you know, is the earth in the center,
does one go around the other or is it the other going around the other? Well, yes, both are true.
And so we're back to that old quandary again. And what you've just been describing is,
I'll bring your attention to a very strong symbol that many may be aware of or may have seen. And
that's the image of some of the images of Akhenaten. So you have that famous image of Akhenaten,
sometimes with the Arten itself, the sun, his version of Ra, or the solar god, the Arten,
with its various rays with hands on the end, each ray has has got a hand on the end. Yes, yes, yes,
the sun and then the rays, the rays with hands, how it's like a hand, hand on the end. Yeah,
it's sort of like, like this or something, right? If I remember correctly.
Yeah, that's right. So it's a splayed, it's a sun with the splay of different rays and each
ray has got a hand on the end of each ray. And sometimes you see, I've seen images of Akhenaten
and Nefertiti with rays coming literally coming out of their eyes, like similar, you know, like rays
jutting out of their eyes. So this touches on a lot of the things you're speaking about
in regards to there is the manifest. And does the manifestation come from within out? Is it that
light which reaches out into space only forms images when it has something, you know, when
it has something to bounce off in the same way as the sun sends out rays to, say, for example,
the moon, and the moon gives the reflection of the light. Everything we see from the old
perspective, you were mentioning the Greeks, but also the Egyptians, there was this notion
that everything that we can, everything that was was projected from within out, so to speak.
You have an image here, yes, that's it, of Nefertiti and Akhenaten. And the, yeah, so you have the
the art in with all of the rays coming out, you can't see it too well. But on the ends of those
rays, you have each one of the rays has got a hand on the end. Yeah, and she's got a child in her lap.
That's right. Yeah. That's right. Very peculiar. Yes. Very profound. Absolutely. These things.
Okay, so I didn't mean to interrupt. So with with the gaze itself, all of these things you're
talking about come into play. The gaze is not a, if the one who is practicing can truly step inside
this, this way that you've just described, this particular perspective, for one's better word,
if you if if the practitioner can step inside that, and then experience that,
then there is the opportunity for that to take place.
Oh, there's so much here. The recipient would be the passive one.
Yes, but it's also resembles the relation where, okay, this is just something that's occurring to
me. If the practitioner becomes the point of origin, not the sun as hypostasis, but the origin
of why there is a sun, right? And then the the the patient, so to speak, becomes sort of like the
earth, or something illumined, or the moon. Yes, exactly. Precisely. Illumined by that. And so this
ancient, originary, role, not not a play, but a role embodiment. Yeah. Right. Sort of naturally,
and in a way, magnetically. Yes. Yes. Because of the ancientness of these roles. Yes. Please
continue. Well, yes. I mean, I mean, what you were saying about, you know, one being literally like a
sun, the other being like a moon, you're you're you literally create that polarity between
the practitioner and this and the subject, there has to be that polarity created. And it has to
be something which is done in a very, I keep using the word in a very visceral manner.
Mm hmm. So when an animal is exuding this force, like a snake, for example,
or a lion, or something like this, or some other beast, it's actually, it's actually doing it usually
with the intention of it being almost like it's going to catch its prey, so to speak. It has to
find a way to, in a sense, I'm trying, I'm not very, very good at finding words today, but in a sense,
it literally plummets that the recipient into a complete trance, just for a moment, often.
Mm hmm. And it's that, that state that the recipient falls into, that the hunter, so to speak,
uses to its advantage. Okay, I want to say a few things here briefly. So
in nature, those of us who are sensitive to sentience, consciousness, awareness,
intelligence, particularly, we'll see different forms of intelligences embodied in nature. For
example, in the eyes of a cow, it's not the same as looking in the eyes of a raccoon, or it's not
the same as looking in the eye of a praying mantis, it's not the same as looking in the eye of a cat.
The snake's eye is a very particular thing, but one of the best examples of what you're talking about
is utilized, because it's, it's really obviously, a human can easily see it on film,
is what a cuttlefish does when it is hypnotizing a shrimp.
See pulses of colorful light traversing the skin of the cuttlefish in an increasing frequency,
and you see the shrimp actually start to just sort of float off and then, you know, and then
when he grabs it, right? And for the praying mantis, what it does is this kind of thing.
It will weave slowly and then very rapidly and then strike. That's it, just like a snake. It's
very similar in what there are forms of martial art that are not the similar, except in martial
art, the goal is to hide the, it's to hide the buildup, right? You don't want the buildup to be
seen. So that, so the buildup becomes internal. Right, right. If you say visceral, please continue.
Yeah, this is right. And when, when the individual is practicing with fascination techniques,
the gaze techniques, it's very subtle. So this is something, obviously, if I was working with
someone directly and teaching them, teaching them exactly how to do this, there is a certain way to
do it. And so often, you have to demonstrate it on the person you're trying to teach, of course,
you know, you have to demonstrate it directly to them so that they actually grasp what it is
you're actually doing. Once they've been on the sort of recipient end of it, then it's my job to
actually get that individual to replicate that effectively. So I would then coach that individual
into how to actually replicate that properly and, and teach them all the little tips on what to look
for, precisely what to look for, to know that it's being done properly. And that's, that's the important
thing is, is teaching them exactly what to look for. Because there are certain, certain signs
that it's being done properly. Yes, unmistakable, you might say.
It's, it's different from hypnosis, but there are signs also in the client in hypnosis.
Yes, yes, this is very true. Often, you can see the pulse in someone's neck. You can see it slow,
you can see the relaxation of the facial muscles, you can detect the shoulders may drop slightly,
the breathing changes. These are hard to see over a camera, but when you're in person with someone,
they're relatively easy to see. I'm sure there are different signs for the mesmer, for the success
of mesmerism, but there's another principle I want to speak briefly about here. And before I continue,
I just want to say, I think that sometimes when people are listening to me speaking,
they may have the impression that I'm reading from the book of what I have already know.
Right. Because this is what it is common for us to think when people speak.
They, that they are saying things they already know, they have known before. And in our conversation,
much of what is taking place is not that. It is something very strange is happening where
my awareness, it feels like it's touching a nonverbal mirror in you.
Right. And I am able to somehow coalesce. It's like the thing we were talking about with seeing.
Yes. The reflection. And then I can begin to articulate what I am feeling or seeing,
which is not something I have known before, or articulated before, right? So this is what is
so beautiful and exciting, part of what is so beautiful or exciting for me, as well as the
anamnoetic reweaving of histories and potentials and seeing. The thing I wanted to mention is that,
again, my friend, Ryan Furstieber, who certainly doesn't consider himself a magician,
but the path of a Blackfoot ceremonial person is involved with something.
They don't have a concept for magic. There's lots of words in English. They don't even have a
concept for it. And their treatment of identity is so different from ours that the idea of
concrete identity basically doesn't exist. So you see a person, it's not necessarily that person.
Right. They don't just presume, oh, it's that person, because you could be coming from the
sun, or you could be coming from the land, or you could be coming from another tribe. So your
identity is in how you relate, rather than in your visage and your name badge or whatever,
as it is in the West, right? We just see Joe, we think, oh, that's Joe. I was taught to not think
that way during my experience. I was taught to very carefully, participatorially, establish our
identities together, rather than presume them. But there's two principles that I think are relevant
perhaps to hypnosis and maybe mesmerism, and one is similitude, the resemblance, right? Resembling.
When you say like, I get them to emulate me, right? That's the similitude principle.
Right. Well, it can never be truly emulated, because it's such an infinitely variable and
minuscule actual thing that takes place. But yes, you're on the right track, and it's definitely,
there is definitely a similitude, and there is something, there is something you can replicate.
Yeah, it's not emulation that leads to success. It's emulation that gives, that maybe communicates
the form, and then the form has to be embodied. Yes. I think that that is successful or not.
But then the other principle which I think is quite trippy is contagion.
Well, I was going to actually use the word transmission, actually.
Fair enough. Because the principle of transmission is something that's very real
when you're working with the type of thing that I'm talking about. Because it's something which is
which is coursing through you, and it's almost connecting to a field of
connecting to a field of information that exists out there beyond us. So if it's coming through me,
and I know how to actually, and I successfully or, you know, enable this to be transmitted to
the individual that I'm working with, then it's by the very nature of this energetic field starting
to connect. One will connect to that continuum, which links through all of my own experiences
somehow, and it actually is transmitted to the individual who I'm working with.
Yes. So when you say this continuum, so to speak, it's almost as if not just your history,
but the lineages that feed in your history. Yes. Go into the other person and as a seed,
sort of, and begin to light up and expand. And I'm not trying to couch our discussion in terms of
concepts from, for example, traditional Blackfoot ceremony, but crucially, in their way of life,
they have this concept that is more primordial than the other two that I was just using,
which are similitude and contagion. And obviously, those are English words. It's transfer.
Right. To be, you know, in English, we might call it initiation, but it's much more intimate than
this. It's literally both something being placed into you and also you being drawn into a lineage
history that you now become a family member of, so to speak. Yeah. So we can bring this analogy to,
say, for example, when somebody is in certain types of tradition where you have, say,
for example, the laying on of hands as an actual transmission, it's similar to this.
There is something that is transmitted through time from lots of different individuals who
have existed physically, but maybe don't exist physically anymore. However, they're present
in you at the moment that you transmit to the next person. Yes. You, in the future, when you're no
longer this incarnate in the normal sense, will be transmitted through your, you know, the connection
you had, you have added to that continuum of energy, amplified it in some measure, and then
that's added to what's passed down to the future generations. Yes. There is a type of transmission
that we're speaking of here. And initiation, as you say, these are all relevant terms,
maybe not always satisfactory words, but, you know, they have the same idea.
I think the concepts are easily understood. I just want to share a couple of other things briefly.
Yeah. When I began to study Tai Chi, I studied it before with a teacher and then I lost my form
and there's a whole adventure behind that. But I found these five older men who were practicing
every morning and they began to teach me. Yeah. And I was very passionate about this, right?
And pretty soon, within about three months, about three months in, I started having dreams. I had
three or four of them in which a group of older Asian men would come and they would just straight
up tell me, you know, we've heard that, you know, we've heard about you and we're here to check you
out. Yeah. Want to see, like, who are you? You know, what are you for real? You know,
you're the kind of person we would want to join the family, you know, this kind of thing.
And thankfully, in those cases, it worked out well for me. But there was a similar thing that
happened when I experienced a transfer from Blackfoot culture where, and it was much more
profound and like primordial. And there were, there were like hundreds of men, warriors and
and found ceremonial elders and stuff that came. There was this quest. There were all these
amazing features that were nothing like a regular dream. Right. Very obviously,
something's going on here. So I just, I just wanted to share that because it might help people to
understand what is meant by joining a lineage or being introduced or having a transmission,
right? It really is to become a part of a lineage and a family and to be checked out,
right? To be sort of, you know, tested. Like, are you, are you for real? You want to sell this?
What do you want? You know, actually, often there's a question when you meet
a non-ordinary being or intelligence, they may praise you, right? They'll sort of, they may
sort of build you up and say, oh, yeah, you're really cool. We like you, blah, blah, blah.
And so we're going to give you a gift. And what do you want?
Okay. Sorry, because they're really trying to figure out, are you, are you selfish?
Yeah, right.
All right. Are you selfish? It's really kind of the question. And by the way, that question
leads to a ladder of other questions. Yes, that's the first question, I think. But yes,
please continue. And how are we doing? How are we doing on time? How are you?
I think I can do maybe, maybe about another 10 minutes or something like that, more or less,
on this occasion. So I'm just trying to work out where we were because
so really, to me, all, I'm trying to find a way to sort of conclude it on this, on this occasion.
So yeah, I mean, we can have, we can hopefully we'll have further explanation.
Yeah. Well, well, you know, like I say, when, when I've got the ability to make it coincide
with everything I've got going on here, I'm very, very happy to do that.
As am I. Yes.
Yeah, great. So, so to sort of try and pull this together at the moment,
it's more a thing of like, you know, where is all of this going? You know, what, what is
all of this giving to us? You know, it's, it seems as if there is a, there is a question
hanging. We experience these things. I'm sure there are many, many, many others
similar to ourselves who've been having these experiences. And it's been feeding into the
work that we're doing and reflecting itself back in the work that we're doing.
Certainly, we can, we can very likely even identify what we believe our roles and our
duty is in this incarnation with regards to how we pass this onto people and what you,
what utility it has as well, you know, for the benefit of others.
But there is a big question, which is hanging there all the time, and that, that is,
where is this all ultimately leading to? You know, this is, this is the question
for me, or at least the question which I'm going to leave hanging in the air, perhaps.
Now, of course, it would probably be foolish for us to,
to conclusively answer anything of the kind. And I think we've touched on that previously.
You know, sometimes there's no point in, you know, it's not right to kill the, to kill that
question. But it's certainly something which is worth putting out there,
even if it's for our own personal work. In our conversations so far, we have run,
we have sounded bells along a trajectory, right? And those, those ringing notes,
they naturally coalesce over time, right? In the same way that you were speaking about
the recovered fragments and how it's not, you allow them to be
sort of preserved without constant attention and inquiry. Yeah. Exactly. Yes.
And also the concept of suggestion and indirect communication is very profound. So for me,
our conversation sounds these notes that ring in the between of our conversations. And I'm sure
will ring in the audience in a very, very generative and fertilizing way like that,
like the Pete, like, like the menstruational, you know, intensity of the blue sky and the
sonic purple, the red purple. Yeah, I have so much faith in you and your way and your path,
you as a being who, who has a noble purpose, you know, you, you have great charisma, but you're
not like a personality, you know, in the way of someone who's self-aggrandizing, right? Yeah.
And so I'm just so grateful for this opportunity to learn and see with you every time we may have it.
Yeah. And Darren, similarly with yourself, you know, the way you, the way you lay things out
in terms of your own summaries and descriptions are incredibly, incredibly illuminating on the
spot, you know, for me, it's not even like I'm sure I'll maybe if I listen to this interview
in the future, I'll have further revelations, but in the midst of actually being here,
talking about these things, there's been a great deal of actual living, you know, things
kickstarting like coming to life in my own understanding right there on the spot as,
as we saw earlier today. And that in itself, you know, is, is incredibly inspiring. And
there's something about the way that you're presenting these things to me, or, or, or,
reflecting them back to me in some instances, which is incredibly illuminating for me. So
it's, it's, there's something very fruitful about the way I feel we're, we're interacting on these
matters. It's profoundly the same for me. It's almost as if the light of my history and awareness
and the light of your history and awareness, they meet somewhere. And then there's, there's like,
there's like a group of figures who speak back to us from the, the intersection, right? It's so
beautiful. And I'm just so grateful and humbled. I can't wait. Me too. Me too. And I'm also
curiously aware of the fact that there is something, I feel there's something in,
in your own experiences and background and in, and in mine that somehow relates to something
beyond us, which we've not quite yet been able to quite fathom or grasp, but there's a,
it feels like there's a reason why this connection came together so to speak.
Absolutely. It's so healing for me. It's so inspiring. And it's so insightful. I've seen,
I've learned so much. I mean, it sounds like I'm talking and blah, blah, blah. I get it, but
I've learned so much every time we come together. And it really is humbling because it's not like,
oh, what is, it's not like it's about what Darren knows or anything like that. Something very
magical, sort of mysterious and alive. And I just want to honor that and you and your work.
I'm so grateful. And I can't wait for the next time.
Yeah. Well, well, hopefully when you're, when you're over here in the UK, I mean, I'm,
you know, we, I don't think we can miss the chance to try to, you know, to pull that together,
to meet up and, and do something, go to some of these sacred sites, have a look around.
I just want to extend the invitation. You ever want to come here? You've got a spot,
you know, I don't know, have you ever been to California?
I've never been, well, actually, I think when I was 10 years old, I did, but that was,
when I was 10 years old, I, it was actually Florida, not California now.
Well, we'll talk about the soft line, but I'm there. And yeah, I'm just so excited.
And thank you so much, Lee. It's brilliant to have a chance to speak with you and learn together.
So. Absolutely. Until our next adventure. Absolutely. Yes. Yes. May your path be blessed
and beautiful. Yours too, sir. Bye-bye for now. Bye-bye.
