Hey everybody, I'm here at the Botanical Gardens.
This is the tree that I call Lightchanger.
I have names for some trees, but not all of them.
Because as the sun is setting, this tree, it glows in all kinds of different ways, and
you can see how it's got this really amazing golden tint at its edges.
Under ordinary circumstances, those birds would not generally let humans get that close
to them.
And this is a time in the gardens when animals take advantage of the lack of humans, which
has been pretty extreme for the past couple of months during the pandemic.
As sometimes happens, I'm not entirely sure what I'm going to talk about today, but in
my last video I spoke a lot about how America is a delusional Disneyland prison complex.
And I think there's some truth to what I said there, although I don't want to make it explicit.
I don't want to say, for example, that's the only thing America is, because that would
just be lying.
There are lots of amazing experiments that first happened here that didn't happen elsewhere.
Lots of experiments in, and you know, it's not like they succeeded perfectly, but I'm
pretty sure that our country was the first country, and I'll happily stand corrected
if I've got this wrong.
I'm pretty sure our country was the first country to grant women the vote, which was
a very important step in recognizing women as completely human rights endowed full beings.
Now it's ironic that any other situation could have ever obtained, because men begin as organs
of women.
So if there's something fundamentally wrong with women, it's pretty hard to see how the
men are somehow raised above that, or elevated, it's very confusing.
So I can frame models where, in a very naive and bizarre way, we can imagine that.
Someone on the newsfeed the other day was mentioning, as most of you know, I'm a huge
fan of hymenoptera, and I pause so that you get the sense of the word.
The word hymen directly refers to the physical part of a woman that we also call her maidenhead,
that which is penetrated and broken or torn the first time that she, usually the first
time that she has intercourse, which we must hope is a consensual moment, though in vast
numbers of cases it is not.
So yeah, hymenoptera are the bees and ants and wasps, and I'm endlessly fascinated by
them and I have a very rich and deep historical relationship with these amazing, complex, intelligent
organisms.
And the other day, here in the garden, I actually stepped on top of a yellow jacket nest because
I was too busy making a video and playing with, you know, what we call owl pellets or
raptor pellets to pay attention to where I was putting my feet.
And that's the kind of incredible ignorance, I mean I'm going to just straight up say that
I was being stupid.
I was doing something I've seen other people do and we know other people have died of,
right?
They're so busy with their smart phone that it got them killed, yeah?
And that event could easily have resulted in me being severely injured or killed, even
though death is not a common repercussion of being swarmed by yellow jackets.
I've been having a conversation about human sexuality and various aspects of how the topic
is introduced to us as children or in childhood.
And sharing stories which are personal about this.
And of course, it's springtime.
It's part of why the yellow jackets are making their nest.
It's part of why the grass is dead and I could see the owl pellets and everything's flowering.
We've just passed the flower moon in Blackfoot phenological cycles, although to call it phenological
cycles is kind of a weird thing, sorry about that.
Because for, you know, tens of thousands of years, the idea of using the word phenology,
a bizarre, you know, Latinate, pheno, right, form, shape, ology, typology would be ridiculous.
We are now, as of last night, in the, I can't remember the exact Blackfoot word, I can't
remember, but we're in the long rains moon, a time where in their territory, particularly
in, like, Canada, the rains come and a wide range of phenomena occur.
And by the way, I want to encourage any of my listeners who are interested in phenology,
which is the embodied relation with a living place that also engages us to study, but to
study by relation, not by abstraction.
The transformations in relationships and emergence and disappearance of the animals and insects
and plants and their relationships over each moon cycle.
And my dear friend, Ryan Firstdiver, it's one word, you can find him on YouTube.
If you have any interest in phenology, I recommend that you follow him and watch his videos.
He has a video on each of the moon cycles.
And these are, these are pricelessly important because we who have calendars instead of relationships
have forgotten so much of what is important to our humanity.
And by returning, by having the opportunity to learn with someone who has remembered, brought
back to membership, right, some of these really crucial aspects of our way of being human
in the world and how we relate with living places, it's an incredible moment of healing
for those of us who are thus inclined, not everyone is, fair enough.
We each have unique bodies, minds, histories, hopes, desires, fears, futures, dreams, nightmares,
victories, tragedies, and this is often forgotten.
And one of the topics that came up in the discussion I previously had, which might be
a useful starting off place, we'll see how this goes, is, sorry, I keep getting haptic
notifications on my watch, which is very disturbing when I'm trying to make a video, perhaps I
need to turn that off.
I do keep location services off in general, but these devices are very complicated.
We can't be sure that because we've turned something off that it's actually off, right.
In any case, we were talking about me and my interlocutor, who I was having a conversation
with a little while ago, we were talking about norm policing, people telling others what's
normal, what's natural for human beings.
Since the conversation was orbiting sexuality, we were talking about instances where people
online are trying to tell other people how frequently, for example, they should be having
sex.
And I find this behavior crude, clumsy, and largely reprehensible.
And the reason that this is so is that norms represent, although they might represent something
that could be equated with the most common denominator, in other words, the average over
some population or some segment or cultural population, that has nothing to do with what
is good or natural or true or healthy.
And the reason that it has nothing to do, well, maybe nothing to do is a little too
severe.
What I'm trying to say actually is that I'm very cautious, okay, here we're going to
get into some linguistic trouble.
I want to say that I'm very cautious about generalizations.
If I'm paying very close attention, and if you are too, you will notice that me being
very cautious about generalizations, and here's where language becomes really tricky.
That's a generalization.
See the problem there?
Now, I'm not saying I want us to get rid of generalizations.
What I'm instead suggesting is that it's very important if we want to use language
intelligently and in a way that mostly like our relationship with machines, doesn't make
us dumber every time we make a move, doesn't reduce the breadth and scope of our awareness
each time we enact it.
Oh, I just saw a vole trying to cross the path up ahead of me.
One of the reasons why raptors like to hunt in this time is because the nocturnal rodents
come out.
When I say, you can see, when I say I'm very cautious and skeptical about some of the ways
we use generalizations, obviously generalizations are useful, and earlier I said in the conversation
I was like, these look to me to be the consequence of our relationship with language, but then
I realized, no, they can be the consequence of embodied experience as well.
We know, for example, that the spaghetti shouldn't just be mush.
We know if the apple doesn't taste like an apple, norms and normative expectations are
one of the things we use as shorthand to keep us from having to overthink or overattend
with our senses.
And so norms and generalizations can be a useful aspect of our human cognitive behavior.
I'm coming near the place where I made my really bad mistake the other day with the
yellow jackets, and I'm always a little nervous when I get in this part of the gardens now.
I'm going to film that spot this time, hopefully, although again, I'm pretty nervous about it.
The owl pellet that I left there is still there, and I kind of want it, but anyway.
There are a variety of significant errors that we make.
So that's where the yellow jacket nest is, and although you can't see it, the owl pellet
with the skull is right next to that.
In any case, there's a variety of sort of easy mistakes we make using our relatively
intuitive habits of generalizing, so that, for example, if I see...
So I invented a redological fallacy, I think.
It's possible that it already existed.
In fact, it seems likely that it already did, but because I'm not aware of it, and by the
way, if any of you can trace this down for me, I'll appreciate it, I invented a fallacy
that I call the Congregantes pessimis fallacy, and that means group pessimism.
And the way we use this fallacy in common thought language, and particularly in the news, is
to ascribe some usually undesirable behavior that we have observed from some person who
we can imagine to be an exponent of a given population segment or group, a derivable distinction.
We observe some often malignant or negligent or ignorant behavior, and then we just generalize
that from the individual instance to all members of a population.
It's hard to give an example that isn't going to get me in trouble.
But let's say that I see a dog grab some kid's hot wheel car and bury it.
And then I decide, dogs are thieves.
Now I'm using an animal on purpose, because if I use any human example, I can easily get
in trouble, and I don't have time, I'm sort of improvising, I don't have time to carefully
select, so I'm using a non-human example to illustrate my point.
But we, many of us who, you know, us language-using humans, us news-reading and news-exposed
and culture-exposed humans, we are trained to think that, for example, males are dominant.
It's not entirely untrue, it's just insufficiently true.
And when we extend this categorical observation, if we believe it too much or we extend it
too far, it blinds us.
And most of the time, that's what we do with generalizations.
Generalizations, and again, I'm generalizing here when I say, alright, I'm generalizing
about generalizations that I'm concerned about.
Notice how complex and confusing this is.
Many of us might be able to notice the first-order problem, which is that generalizations can
be deceptive, not so many of us, but a few of us, particularly those who are linguistically
and philosophically trained.
And some people who just have a really good intuition or are bright, not many of us would
notice the second-order problem, which is that that itself is a generalization.
So if I say, for example, I don't like absolutes, same problem.
Now I tend to be cautious enough to leave some incompleteness in my assertion.
So instead of saying generalizations are bad, which is a generalization, I'll say I'm skeptical,
I'm suspicious of generalizations, but with absolutes, I'm more suspicious.
It's very uncommon in our relationships with abstraction, with ideas, with knowledge, with
theories, with concepts, with categories, that absolutes are justified.
There are very simple cases where they can be.
For example, if somebody accidentally steps on my foot and I say, it is true that you
just stepped on my foot, that's pretty absolutely true.
If I say, for example, you who are listening to me are not now standing beside me, that's
pretty absolutely true.
It's not perfectly absolutely true, but it's true enough for me to go like, okay, let's
do the absolute thing and say, that's true.
But with complex things and with abstract things, with knowledge, with language, we
have to be really careful because it's easy to deceive ourselves.
The tools turn us into their likeness if we're not aware of this.
So this policing of normative behavior, which is something, a number of very intelligent
people, not all of whom are perfect.
I'm not particularly, I enjoy listening, for example, to Jordan Peterson.
It doesn't mean I believe everything that he says or that I think he's the best thing
to happen to some segment of the intellectual population since some other thing that happened
to some other segment.
He's not like the best thing since sliced bread, but there's aspects of his presentation
and his mind that are edifying.
They're enriching, I feel nourished.
And there's other things he says where I'm just like, how did you come up with that guy?
I can't buy that.
So we don't have to, and this is another problem.
We think that either people are either good or they're bad.
No, actually it's much more sophisticated than that.
And your experience of people will depend to a great deal on the purposes that underlie
your encountering them.
And if you start out with the idea that you're going to judge them, well, you're going to
get what you went looking for.
And it's the same thing with normative generalizations.
And by normative, I mean generalizations that assert that one or some other thing is normal.
And it's not that such things are, again, the purpose matters a lot.
And if the purpose is to police our fellow humans and try to rigidly normify them like
the kind of torture that happens to most of us in elementary school and high school
when what should be happening is that our uniqueness and the unique gifts that we bring
to human birth and thought and learning and play and creativity should be nourished and
enriched and recognized and rewarded and that we should be reassured that our uniqueness
as a human being and as a mind and as a heart and as a soul is valuable and noble and good
and true.
In our modern circumstance as the body of common, sort of the common people, and I'm getting
in danger here because I'm going to start talking about norms, as the intelligence of
the common, sort of, the most common denominator of spectator culture, okay, I'm calling out
a segment.
Boy, am I in trouble.
The most common denominator, they're not particularly intelligent.
And they can be easily swayed by impassioned narratives or arguments to believe things
that aren't only wrong, they're impossible, like they need a major upgrade to get to wrong.
And when people begin to police each other's sexual behavior in ways that propose that
they know what's normal for other people, we're in really dangerous territory, in my
view, because there's all kinds of things about each human being, so this is the other
side of the coin of generalization, its specificity, right, it's the uniqueness of any actually
individual being or moment of that being or situation of that being, and this doesn't
get enough airplay.
And part of the reason is that our culture is structured, right, to, well, partly it's
structured by inveterate policing, right, we experienced this throughout our lives,
but from childhood onward, many of us will, at least from the culture, if not from our
own parents, family, and peers, we're going to get policed, right, we're going to get
rewarded for, we're going to get rewarded for matching the dominant paradigms and frameworks
and models, and we're going to get punished for deviation, right, and in fact the whole
I, you know, the word deviant, it has a negative connotation in English, that doesn't mean
that every use, right, generalizations again, that doesn't mean that every use implies
negativity, but the general connotation is one of negativity.
To call someone a deviant is to denigrate them.
Now there are those of us who have learned that most of our humanity and intelligence
lies in the domain of deviation from normative behaviors, because the normative behaviors
shave off 87% of what we were born as and could grow up to be if only we had cultures
that encouraged rather than punished that, right, and we can develop those cultures between
each other regardless of the situation in which we find ourselves, as long as we are
A, aware of that possibility, and B, not deceived by the constant fucking normative policing
that we're subject to throughout our lives, and it's funny that the sort of normative
policing can go so far that the people who the common culture might refer to as deviance
could begin policing themselves in the same kind of way that extreme conservatives might
otherwise.
Do you like left?
The cultural left, which of course is also a ridiculous idea, but it's one that's familiar
to most of us, the left and the right and the conservatives and the liberals and so
on and so forth.
It's really interesting that at the extreme side of the left you get ideas that actually
resemble, very strongly, ideas emerging from extremely conservative right wing ideologies.
That's a good crow feather, alright.
Kind of want to, kind of want it, but I'm going to resist my, um, so these mushrooms,
these fungi, are common now in this moon cycle.
Here's one that hasn't really sprouted yet and might have been stepped on in the center
of one that exploded.
Uh, yeah, it's weird that you can go so far left that the behavior starts to resemble in
various ways.
The bizarre, um, critical severity and blindness, myopia, right, um, the Cyclops one-eyed thing
that we're relatively used to from extreme right wing conservatives and such, uh, but
one of the things that's happening right now is our, our cultures are factinating.
They're, they're fra, especially in the United States, we're fragmenting and that, that
process is being intentionally fomented from without and within, right.
There's all kinds of predators that can take advantage of that.
If you can just fragment the population, they can be had.
So unfortunately people think like, people have this thought that they're defending
some incredibly important right or historical ideology or perspective and they think they're,
they think they're heroically defending some idea when really a lot of what's going on
is just the transmission of various information diseases, um, that are highly contagious and
have been intentionally constructed for both, um, contagion and damage and, you know, uh,
virulence, yeah, um.
When we become aware of that, we acquire, we begin, we have the possibility of acquiring
a degree of immunity and I'm using analogies of disease on purpose, um, certainly toxic
information causes something very similar to disease in human beings.
I avoided the news explicitly for many, many years and only recently due to a change in
my employment, uh, I had to become sort of more, more aware of the news, um, which has
been, um, largely miserable process.
More miserable is what I see in social media where I watch the, the spread of contagious
of, of, of sort of contagious info weapons, right?
And the emergence of what I'll refer to or sort of the resurgence really and, and emphasis
on normative policing, uh, is, is really frightening because most of the people who are engaged
in that behavior with some few exceptions, I don't want to be too hyperbolic here, but
I wouldn't trust them with silverware, let alone computers, let alone social media.
Um, these people are not insightful enough to tell the difference between a peach and
a bomb.
And so they somehow feel they have been, um, encouraged by a kind of inflammation by, by
the intentional inflammation of an aspect of their political ego or their informational
ego to distribute diseases and think this somehow righteous or heroic.
It's a fascinating phenomenon that we can learn a great deal from and we must, if we
are to, if we are to evade the relatively terrifying latter stage consequences of this
and if we are to learn together and teach each other how to recognize the signs of this
and avoid it.
Now I have a model of a system that I call the knowledge amp that would, it has the
following properties, it's very simple, it would give us a browser that works more like
our minds, it would, it would access the internet in a way much more like how our intelligence
uses memory instead of the index of a book filled with a bunch of advertisements, um,
it would allow us to kind of dream in data the browser would, then it would have an aspect
that's a vetting sentinel that would produce a profile of any media item that would help
us understand its, um, its origins, its verity, like it would give us a verity, uh, readout
like how dependable is this information.
It would, it would help us understand the, uh, the pedigree of information, like where
does this site, where do these ideas originate, who prospers when they're spread, who makes
money if this media item gets circulated, um, is this original information, is it a conglomerate
of things woven together, is it mostly stolen, is it mostly spin, is the language in the,
in the media suspect, it would give us a readout on any, any kind of media that we could, uh,
access on the internet, and I call that the verity sentinel.
And then, um, there's an analytics engine that would keep all of the analytic data that
we produce by interacting with machines private to ourselves, and allow us to make profiles
so that we can search the internet as ourselves rather than people like us or our psychographic
profile, and that would have layers of shareability so that we could form sort of, um, little
societies of shared intelligence with people both like and unlike us, and this would help
us to understand things that might be particularly dangerous for us, or things that might be
particularly useful for us, um, it would keep all the analytics separate, and that would
become a valuable commodity over time that we could opt into sharing anonymized data
from if we wanted to, with corporations instead of just having that data stolen, and we would
be paid for that.
And again, over time, that thing would become incredibly valuable, and it's a very sophisticated
element.
We could even produce profiles for people who are no longer alive.
We could analyze, for example, the works of Einstein, or even Da Vinci, and produce profiles
so that we could search the web as another human being.
Uh, and that would protect our privacy, right?
This system would be completely, um, distinguished from the internet, and the internet would
be accessed through its servers with anonymized data so that we couldn't be tracked and traced.
Uh, and then there's a social media adventuring aspect where we could have an avatar, and
we can form teams, not entirely unlike sports teams, that would compete together to solve
actual problems in the real world.
And ordinary people could have multiple ways of being a personality that competes in teams
with others to help solve real world problems and earns rewards for doing so.
So that's, that's the reason, the main reason that I posed that little map is that the,
the Verity Sentinel, um, that particular feature is something we desperately need.
And this idea is almost, like, 15 years old.
This isn't new.
We're still using browsers and technology that was invented in the 90s, and nobody's
even had one better idea.
So we're in danger of a situation like our government where we're, we never upgraded
the OS, right?
We're using something that's catastrophically outdated and thinking ourselves modern, and
it's, it's filled with bloatware and malware and viruses and spyware.
Our internet has become the opposite of anything we would hope for it to be, by and large,
with a few reasonable, you know, exceptions.
Um, I think, when I think of exceptions, I think of things like Wikipedia, some of the
online learning portals that are really popular that'll teach you mathematics, for example,
or physics, um, their, their names escape me at the moment, but I've used a couple of
them.
Uh, there's amazing, there's some amazing educational resources that are, that are trustworthy
and good.
I think, um, Wolfram, the creator of Mathematica, what he's done with the internet is astonishing
and brilliant and good.
Uh, let's see, what else is really good?
I mean, those are, those are some of the examples that come immediately to mind.
So we need something to, we need to train, we need to use humans and machines together.
We need human assisted computational heuristics.
I'm not going to call it AI because I don't actually believe there's anything like intelligence
in devices.
Disagree with that language vehemently, but we need human assisted computational heuristics
or hatch.
Yeah.
And, and then we can use, we can train machines to profile media in a way where we can immediately
tell like what the dependability factor is of any given piece of media.
It's pedigree, it's origins, what it relates to, linked ideas, connotations.
See this is the other thing.
We, we are living in a, in a culture that uses language denotatively, but most of our actual
intelligence isn't denotative, it's associative, right?
Connotations matter.
The ideas that surround a central figure are important and we need to build into, um, information
systems that reflect this because if we don't, our own intelligence is going to collapse
down to this denotative derivation.
And as we watch that process go on, as I've been observing that over the years, it's terrifying.
It's absolutely terrifying.
Um, people's minds are collapsing into these sort of tokenized, very disabling, um, modes,
forms, purposes, functions, and so on.
And the, the forces that benefit from that are just going to keep encouraging it because
it, it's a payday every time it happens, right?
And if it's not a payday, it's a war win, right?
It doesn't have to pay, it just has to win in combat.
Yeah.
And so if you can get a population to start attacking themselves and we're seeing, um,
astonishing evidence of this in the United States at this, at the moment, you've won
a war you didn't have to fight.
The citizens fought it for you against each other, right?
So all you really need to do is fragment those populations, make sure they stay ignorant
and can't tell the difference between reliable media and contagions and then you win.
And this is part of what has resulted in the normative policing, uh, process around,
for example, uh, human sexuality.
It's not reasonable to tell other people what's normal about their sexuality, how many times
to have sex a week or a day or whatever, right?
There's nothing, you can make generalizations, but you better call them that and you should
certainly say, not you, but one, should certainly like say there's going to be every kind of
divergence from these norms we suggest.
But how could it, unless, unless we could observe wild type humans, right?
Humans uninculturated, yeah?
Humans not infected with representational cognition.
How would we know what is normal?
We have no, there's no baseline, right?
People can make various suggestions for various reasons and, you know, they'll, they'll acquire
audiences and those audiences will, you know, agree or disagree or whatever, they'll get
contention audience.
But this normative policing thing is, is a real problem in my view, particularly as regards
something as personal and uniquely specific to each human being as their sensual nature.
I know people across all different kinds across the whole spectrum of human sexuality, right?
And in fact, I think in general, culturally speaking, the way our cultures view sexuality
and the way it's used in our culture, both to sell things and as a commodity, this seems
to me very disturbing in general, but what I'm going to say is that our cultures are
too timid to understand the actual nature of human sexuality, far, far too timid.
To understand the actual range of what is natural in human beings would obliterate our
ideas of normalcy.
So for people to be normatively policing others around sex seems important, right?
In a way that alerts me that there's a problem, um, but it goes back to this idea of gender
generalizing, right?
It goes back to, I'll tell you what a human is, and the way I'll tell you is by taking
an average over some population and then projecting it back to you and telling you what I think
the, the sort of pivot points or the, the bar graph, you know, should look like.
And shouldness is a whole other nightmare topic in human thought, but it's true that
generalizations are not without merit.
As I said, we can use them as shortcuts to protect us from having to overanalyze or over
attend a phenomenon, and they're an important aspect of our human cognition, but we need
to be aware of their dangers, particularly in informational environments and situations
and the sort of terrifying clusterfuck that we call social media, which is almost, it's
really more like a pool of diseases than it's like a society as far as I'm concerned, at
least at the moment.
I think we could change that.
I think we have to change it, but for right now it's, it's a pretty, it's a messy battleground,
particularly now when the stakes are high, right?
They're higher than they've ever been, and they're going to keep climbing higher, which
means what I'm talking about now, more than likely five years from now, people will look
back on this and say, oh, he was kind of timid.
He really didn't call out the problems as severely enough as, as they needed to be called
out.
He must have been really holding back because over the next five years we're going to see
behavior unlike anything we've ever seen in the history of our species.
And the battleground for supremacy in online contexts and interactions is going to heat
up to a boil right quick here, I think.
And we're going to see all kinds of other unexpected behavior from bad actors.
We're going to see really complex hacks.
We're going to see sophisticated attacks against infrastructure, electricity, food production.
We're going to see a lot of new kinds of warfare that our military is absolutely unprepared
to meet, primarily because we've been busy building machines, you know, we've been busy
building conventional war assets and the time we live in.
It's not that conventional war is an anachronism, you know, you can still have land wars, but
what's going to go on now, which is much easier and less complex to foment and pursue, are
going to be modes of war that we're familiar with the possibility of, but have only rarely
seen direct examples of.
So hopefully we've traversed some useful terrain today and I'm grateful that we had this time
and that we could explore some of the unique and often troubling features of our modern
relationships with language, knowledge, computing technologies, and the idea of norms.
I think just before I go, I just want to highlight how incredibly unique each of us really is.
It's not that we don't fit in a class, you know, you can reasonably call us all human,
but every one of us is unique and different moments of us are different.
And in different contexts, we are different.
It's almost like we need, we're like an animal that's incomplete and we are completed by the
contexts and relationships we entertain.
So I want us to have the opportunity to foment and forge and experience contexts that are
diverse and fulfilling and intelligent, encouraging that allow us to discover the incredible diversity
that is the natural sort of foundation of our human nature.
And unless we establish those contexts together, we're going to get the like the low hanging
bat, like sort of the rotten fruit of the culture and the internet and, you know, the
thought police.
So let's do something else, shall we?
Thanks for joining me.
The Great Entrance Cyprus.
