where I live there are many machines. In fact, I'm surrounded by them. One might say I'm
floating in an ocean of machines. And it's obvious and long been obvious to me, I think
even since I was a child, that as exciting as machines can be, we're competing against
them for human attention, for ecological survivability. We're competing against them in 10 new ways
each day that we can't compete in. They're made of parts, machines, and they're made
by humans for purposes. And as we can see even with an automobile, like the ones you
can hear right now, they intrude everywhere, even here, now, in an intimate moment between
us. And their intrusion is noise some. They don't make the intelligent music of living
beings, which if you listen to this recording very carefully, you may hear in the background,
along perhaps with the sound of the breeze through the living leaves of trees. These
are not made of parts. They're not made for purposes. And evolution is not a purpose,
but a process. A process we understand less than a hundredth of one percent of. I think
a lot about the polarity, a polarity in seeing that places precedence on parts, functions,
purposes. But there are no parts in nature. And honestly, the idea of functions is a fiction.
It's a verbal fiction. It's a conceptual fiction. It's a prosthesis, one way of seeing.
That way is a tool-like way and is useful for tool-like purposes. But we do not wish our minds
to become tool-like, nor our cultures, bodies, dreams, humanity, planet, future. If you've
ever tried to live instead of in a home, say, in an auto barrage, then you'd understand immediately
that this place is unlike your organism in a way that is lethal.
But there's some very interesting things about the mind that sees parts and the difference between
giving this aspect of consciousness or attention precedence and the mind
that relates with holes or gestalts, unities. And almost all of our culture is focused on part
mind and driven by part mind. In other words, it's driven by fictions, fictions of mechanism,
function, fictions of value. But there are some really interesting things that we can
immediately see about this mode of thinking. One is that it's utilitarian, right? It's
something we do for very specific purposes. Often these purposes are multiple and parts of them
are hidden from us so that we think the purpose of an automobile is to provide, for example,
convenient travel opportunities. In fact, it has some hundred purposes. Some 90 of them we don't
discuss and are mostly hidden to us and are deadly. And we tend to discuss the ones that we
superficially like or identify with or want to identify with. Ignoring those, we do not wish to
notice or identify with. In other words, we ignore that which we do not wish to see as like ourselves,
in this case. But there's something kind of simple about parts that's really important to
understand. Parts could be understood as a second-order phenomenon and origins and gestalts
as a first-order phenomenon. These are entirely different orders
of seeing, thinking, meaning, identity, and value. And the second-order phenomenon is the
result of activities in the first. So it will never leap above the first and say, I stand over you or
I generate you. And this can be expressed in an analogy. A memory you have
will never be your memory. In other words, the product of one of your faculties will not be
the faculty. Similarly, a machine will never be a mind. It's absolutely impossible. They're
different orders of reality, entirely different order. A machine is a bit like language in the
sense that it's a second-order process, excuse me, product of mind. So that product is no
matter how sophisticated you want to make it, is not going to ever become a first-order phenomenon.
The parts don't become gestalt. And the machine is a false gestalt. It's not really a unity at all.
It's actually just a conglomeration of parts. Its unity is not in the machine but in our thinking,
whereas organisms, the unity is in being. It's absolutely true, authentic, verifiable,
veritable, trustworthy in every single way of seeing living things and places. There's no exception.
But there's another interesting thing about parts, and analogies can help us to see how important
it is. We're rather seeing with the parts-oriented mind in precedence, which is how we're trained.
And it can be very, very, it's almost impossible to evade this, actually. One has to have some kind of
transformative experience of realization to suddenly understand that we've had the wrong end of the
structure, the tiny end, the function-oriented end. But in any case, if you were to, for example,
let's say that you were in amorphous intelligent life form, so you're something like a great big
amoeba, and you're very intelligent, and you've seen lots of amorphous life forms on your world,
but you don't have any formed life forms. So if you were to find a hand, which is a part of a human
body, you could even find a hand that had just been severed from a human body. And of course,
you've never seen anything like this because all of your biologies, amorphous, it's blobby.
It doesn't really have parts, it's just flowing unities and things like that and constellations
of them. So if you were to look, if a creature like this were to find a hand,
there'd be absolutely no way for them to tell what it was, what it indicated. In other words,
there's no way that the hand would, for example, indicate the existence associated with that
part of the second order phenomenon, excuse me, of the first order phenomenon of seeing.
From a hand, you would not imagine eyes, ears, mouths, taste, smell, hearing, speech, minds.
There's nothing in the hand that would lead you to suspect the existence of
these actually very obvious true things.
You cannot really tell the nature of the whole simply by looking at a part.
And similarly, they could, they could, such a creature, the amorphous creature,
could examine the cellular structure of a hand, perhaps even the genetic structure.
And it would never indicate anything like mind or soul, the intellect, self, emotions.
There's no part of your body you could look at that would hint at the first order phenomenon
of being, seeing, knowing, understanding, feeling, relating.
This is nowhere indicated in the parts, and you can't make a conglomeration of parts
that has properties like this. It is not made. It's not a product.
Holes emerge fully as unities from other holes in nature, and precedence in nature is everywhere
on unity on the first order phenomenon. And this is an astonishing recognition that
our ideas about gestalts have been damaged in some way by our relationship with language
and machine and machines, such that in coming to see and understand machines as gestalts,
we made the mistake of believing that things are collections of parts.
And honestly, especially if you look at the human body, if you've ever studied biology,
you'll very immediately realize that there aren't any obvious parts. It's a big ocean
where everything's touching, all the substances are alive, all the contexts are living,
it's completely unified from beginning to end. The things that we call parts are conveniences of
language derived from the purposes of science and medicine, noble purposes they may be,
but their projections on identity are fundamentally the opposite of reality.
I was once with a group of philosophers and I tried to express my disdain for the idea
that we are in some way mechanical. And one of them said,
well, how are we different? And I said, machines are assembled by people from parts for purposes.
That's what mechanism is about. Now, there's another definition of mechanism. We can use
the word abstractly to say, for example, talk about aspects of a process that we have some
formal understanding of, formal model of theories, equations,
testable, rational material and such. That stuff is true in its narrow domain of concern,
and given the, how should we put it? Given the dangers of abstraction
from being to theory, from experience and understanding to language and structure,
we should realize, obviously, that the result, however indicative of
true features, reliable features of common experience,
is woefully incomplete because it is a description.
And there are fundamentally sort of two kinds of knowledge. There's knowledge by direct
experience, familiarity and knowledge by description. Obviously, these are not the same
thing. Machines are much like second thing. They are embodiments of descriptions of processes.
There is no organism like that. But we can say that, you know, we can use the term
mechanism to describe our intellectual purchase on processes. We just shouldn't confuse that
with those processes actually being mechanical in nature.
For most of these processes, their mechanicalness is not in them, but rather in our approach,
and its orientations, habits, expectations, purposes, the necessities of formal analysis,
things like this. Now, we're going to throw away more than 99% of the phenomenon. What will be left
with is a peculiarly articulate remnant that that is never the phenomenon. There's an excellent
example of this for most of medical history up until now, or up until perhaps five years ago.
Medical science explicitly denied the meaningful presence of 90% of the cells in our body.
When you hear the phrase, or you hear even today, if you hear the phrase,
your DNA, they're not talking about your DNA. They're talking about the DNA in the animal cells
of your body. Now, granted, that's the germline that you get from your parents and all of that,
but 90% of our cells by number that we acquire after birth, which we acquire from the environment,
are not human cells, 90% of them. And in case it's not clear, it's pretty obvious that the 10% is
floating in the other 90%, and that these two are intimately relational so that what we call now
the commensal microbiota, the lost 90% of us, is obviously influencing the development and
activity of the genes in the other 10%, meaning there's a non germline transport for traits.
Science is essentially unaware of this. And for most of medical history,
it's been considered, and it still is today, a fairly excellent medical practice to simply wipe
out as much of those unchanged forever by poisoning the 90% of those other cells that we
don't really care about. So you can see how the incredible narrowness of focus is very,
very dangerous as relates to organisms. It tends to notice what it wants to see. It tends to notice
its own projection likeness of what it's looking for, and exclude almost everything else, which
usually is most of reality. Well, organisms are never like that. They're nothing like that.
They're not parts, they're not individuals. You and I are individuals only as a fiction of language,
and it's a wild fiction. Neither are we explicitly all one. The ways in which unity exists and
constellates other unities are quite profound, but they're not simple.
They're not simply, oh yeah, man, it's all one, dude. No, it's not like that.
Unity has precedence, though, especially in living systems. And I will
suggest in intelligent minds. Intelligent minds can see, have preserved the polarities in their
proper order and can distinguish between the features of employing them, right? So intelligent
minds learn that what we see when we go looking for parts is extremely deceptive, and they learn
to look with the other eye that sees unity's first. This eye would count the hand very differently
from from us. It might count it as plus seven, rather than five. Notice that our count of five
counts only the extensions and pretends they're individual, but there's nothing in your hand
that's separate. And like your body, your hand has a central body of unity, which we don't count.
Isn't that funny? We don't count the place where the members come together,
but the mind of unity would count that first. In fact, placing precedence on unity, we would first
count the hand as one. We would notice that it's a unity. And then we might notice that it has a
unifying body and that it has members that are connected and related through this body.
And that this body magnifies provocatively the powers and potentials of each member,
almost infinitely, especially when it's as relates to the human hand. Think about it.
But they would also notice the wrist that leads upscale to a very similarly oriented structure.
One unifying body, four working members, each with three segments, one thinking member with two
segments. It's the same frame paradigm as the hand at another order. And at that other order,
lo and behold, we find eyes, a mind, a mouth, taste, speech, hearing, smell,
wonder, awe, intelligence.
None of these would we guess from looking at the structure of the hand. No amount of analysis
would ever lead us to suppose this. Most of what we really hope to learn and see
has to do with second, excuse me, with first order phenomenon, not with the second order
phenomenon that we're constantly sort of fascinated by. We want direct experiences of
intelligence, of being, of new ways of seeing, perhaps a vision itself, of divinity, of insight.
And it is our nature to seek these together. But our wings have largely been clipped.
And to return them to their necessary splendor, we need to learn to invert
and deny some of the results of our habitual approach to identity, what things are.
What they are is something we mostly decide during our approach,
rather than something we discover innately existing outside of that approach.
So, intelligence must become a way of using that first order understanding to produce vastly
superior second order products in thought, conception, language, idea, and model.
Our cultures are really damaged by the idea of the individual. And we seem to think that there's
only two options, right? There's either everybody's individuals, and you have preserve individual
rights and freedoms, which of course are fictions and don't exist, especially when we try to preserve
them. Once you have to preserve them, you're already in big trouble. But neither is the answer
perfect unity, you know, like the communist kind of thing, like both of these answers are
completely wrong. They're both abstract extremes. Neither of them will fulfill our human hopes or
natures. And both of them are likely to assault them, corrupt them, damage them, repurpose them.
No, we don't need any explicit overriding hierarchy. We need something like
the capacity to form and correct small intelligent unities and to constantly socially.
But the whole idea of the individual and the collective is very, very confused in our modern
cultures. And it seems to be based on parts functions. And unlike machines, when humans make
the collection analog, right, when they come together and do things together, functions,
when they function together. Unlike machines,
what the humans are doing is duplicitous so that you don't have a politician who's actually a good
politician. And if you had like a car that just didn't work and did every other thing, but roll
down the street, you'd immediately know that's not a car. But in our cultures, you don't. In our
cultures, you can actually have the opposite of a politician as a politician and the opposite
of a protector as a protector, the opposite of a doctor as a doctor, the opposite of a teacher
as a teacher, the opposite of an advocate as a lawyer, the opposite of justice as a courtroom,
the opposite of democracy as America. Because when the basis of our purposes and relations
are duplicitous and involve things like profit, the grandisement of an individual and things like that,
the outcomes are deadly. And they have to be. To preserve that process, these outcomes must
remain toxic and deadly. So if we are to change our cultures and to affect them at any level at
all, if we are to learn how to authentically educate our children and each other rather than
produce damaged replicas of relatively insane ideas,
we will need to see how to make true our purposes.
And unify them. If our purposes are truly with and for each other,
we're in pretty good terrain to start with. That's a simple enough beginning.
But if they're for ideas about individuals and rights and the grandisements and profit
and commerce and economy and war, well, we're going to be a different kind of animal.
And that animal, as we can see from history, is neither human nor intelligent.
It does not relate with the unities. It breaks them into parts for purposes and prosecutes the remnant.
So let us turn back to the other way. And this is the way
ineffectively pointed toward by philosophy, true science, and anything that might be worthy of
being called the pursuit of the divine or the instancing of it.
Let us rediscover the aspects of our intelligence that place precedents on unity together.
And we can do this very rapidly with analogies and toys of seeing that lift us briefly out of
the cages we've long struggled with and confused alone often, in many cases helpless, and yet
urgently enthralled with the grand beauty of living beings, the promise of our human birth,
and the memory of all the living places and minds
upon which this moment of our being and hope, our fascination, our wonder, and our awe
are founded.
Let's not have the coda we've had here, or at the end, machines have the final say.
