It's not yet dawn.
The sky is light, but the sun's not yet risen.
There are not yet too many machines rushing all around making noise.
Then you can hear the birds waking.
It's been raining a little bit and it's very foggy here.
It's interesting how we're kind of trained and inclined to look far away for everything
we hope to discover and become and seek, relationally, intellectually, spiritually, developmentally.
Our attention is always dragged in many different directions, largely by confusion that we've
acquired from language or culture, media, distraction, crisis.
But the amazing thing that is so hard to see is that this is the true spirit world.
This is the only world.
This is our world.
And this is the place that all of our stories and science and religions are far less than.
So much less than that they don't even matter.
Yet they too commonly orient our minds and hopes, our dreams, our fears so constantly
and profoundly that we cannot see this world or ourselves or each other or the actual impossible
beauty and intelligence that is our true origin, nature and endowment.
And anyone seeing this even for a moment, anyone glimpsing it, will always thirst again
for another encounter, a deeper experience of what's actually going on in and as our
own bodies and minds and world.
We've all heard stories of afterlives and reincarnation, and many of them are quite
incredibly ridiculous.
Yet in language or to thought, they can after long exposure come to make some kind of seeming
sense.
I think we should presume that they're all lies and find their origins here in our own
experience, interest, relation and curiosity, our own discovery together.
But about these ideas, especially the one of reincarnation, it's typical of the way
that we're trained to think.
And what we're told essentially is something like, each life is an interval in a circle,
and between them there is a kind of dreaming that is uncontrollable, and then we emerge
again in human birth or some other kind of birth.
We incarnate.
This idea is not uninteresting, or entirely without merit.
Yet I think if we look carefully within ourselves and our own lives, we'll discover very surprising
features of this idea.
Very unexpected, very real to our experience, aspects of what it means to die and be reborn,
to incarnate, to reincarnate, to resist incarnation, to do something other, to de-carnate, to depersonate,
for example.
And in thinking about this, I realized that each of our earthly years can be thought of
as a complete life and death cycle.
And our conception date in this toy, this lens, this way of thinking, we undergo conception
again, and if we are aware, we will notice.
And then we are nine months in the womb, or many months, and then around our birth date,
or on our birth date we are born, into a new cycle that should reform and advance and transform
all the previous cycles quite dramatically, especially if we were aware of such matter.
And then we get three months of life, and then we die, and are reconceived again each
year.
But of course this happens almost with any span of time, a month, a week, certainly a
day, a waking self completely dies into dreaming, where in general it is present in only the
strangest kind of mostly absent way, and then is reborn on our awakening.
We might imagine completely new and clean, reborn like a child, and yet how quickly we
reassemble the vehicles with which we travel and negotiate our existence in the largely
fictional constructs of our cultural experience, especially where that experience is happening
in cities or places where we are, isolated, divided, made into factions and functions,
but I'm reminded that this moment is incarnation, and when we are aware we don't have to wait
years or lifetimes to understand and see, to become alive, to discover why we have all
these strange stories, and what it is that science is deftly tracing out in nature.
And at their source neither of these things are like our products, the religions are not
like our stories, the realities of science are not like our descriptions, in the same
way that we are not like our stories and descriptions, but are perhaps their origins and audience.
What is so astonishing to me is that this truly is the only world, this is the spirit
place for all the beings, dwell and live, learn, are born and die, one world.
This is what we imagine, everything that we imagine that is far away.
This is worlds with alien life, this is worlds where heaven is right in and as our own hands
and eyes, the tree, the bird, the sky.
This is everything we've placed far away in language, abstracted away into science and
dismissed with mechanical or dogmatic implications, arguments, debate, opinion from what we rather
clumsily call tradition.
This is the world where our ancestors' souls are entwined with every breath we take, the
entire history of life on earth's future, the true origins of our souls and minds and
intellects.
This is the living body of their presence.
This is what people are talking about when they talk about after lives and the place
where the dead dwell and the places where other intelligences might live.
That's this place.
But there's a terrifyingly confusing array of veils over everything, including all those
veils that claim to unveil it.
So how shall we see then together and remember that this place here and us, our moment, this
moment and possibility of incarnation together, is everything that we've thought of and imagined
as far away elsewhere, unavailable to us, mere fiction, futurism, that all of the mysteries
of science and religion are speaking to our own ears, singing with our own voices.
One might rather ask how could it be we forgot, how could we become so compelled and distracted
that anything else could seem true or real?
The answer to that is long and complex, but the simple aspect is we developed representational
minds and those have peculiar vulnerabilities to descriptions.
A long time ago we have a story of a prophet who said, the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
Now of course that's an English translation and who knows who said what precisely, but
if we take this prophet at their word, you might imagine that it was not that they were
speaking of time, but rather of something very peculiar about our own hands, with which
such stories were recorded and passed down long streams of time into minds, know something
about our own hands, something about this place here, something about us right now.
Not far away, not in the future, not after death.
In fact, if not in life, here with each other, not anywhere.
The stories we make all disappear, the moment there's any kind of crisis, the moment the
fictions fall away, all of the ideas we have collapse, birth and death are like this.
If you will see deeply into your own origin, the living world, this moment, what it means
to incarnate now, to have a new incarnation now, to urgently, passionately reach into
and for yourself and life on earth, this place, this world here, to know its soul as your
own, you'll need no instruction from books and none will suffice, you won't, I won't
be able to help you and no teacher will tell you for you will remember, you'll remember
yourself to this world in this place, this life, your body, it's intricate, delicate
and most profound relation with the most astonishing phenomenon and the only world we know, the
only true world, the only living world.
I say to you we live in all we long for elsewhere and that here, if only our eyes will see what
they were born to be and know, in their distant place will hold much interest for us, for
here together within for each other, this indeed is paradise and I say there is no other.
