Hello, everybody. Welcome. Today is Wednesday, September 13th, and I'm out for an afternoon
to talk and talk. I just want to take a moment to honor and appreciate all of you who listened
to my recordings, and especially those of you who support me to whatever degree you can
by liking my videos, sharing them, commenting, or sending me a little bit of money on Patreon.
I have very few patrons, and any of you who want to contribute even a dollar a month,
it makes a big difference. Currently, my Patreon produces around $65 a month. That has recently
changed, thanks to one subscriber in particular who made a very generous monthly donation,
but it's still pretty low, and I'm not here to make money. None of my content contains advertising.
I provide all of it free, and I'd like to keep it that way. It would be terribly ironic if my
YouTube videos played advertisements, but it would also get me a vastly larger share of attention,
since I don't think YouTube promotes videos that don't contain advertising.
So yes, any support that you'd like to give would be very welcome, and you can make a one-time
donation if you wish by going to the index page on organelle. I think it's organelle.org
backslashindex3.html. At the bottom, there's a link where you can make a one-time donation
if you feel so inclined. But I'm going to continue to produce free content, no matter what,
as long as I'm able. And even my medium essays, which you can find links to on my YouTube page,
almost none of them are member only. So very grateful for those of you who listen,
participate, share, comment, and support my work. Thank you very, very much. It means a lot to me,
and to the other people who maybe can't afford to support my work, but listen anyway. And I'm
grateful for those people too. So thank you all. Got a variety of topics on the burner today.
Many of them you will have heard noises about in previous videos. Clearly, the UFO topic and the
topic of non-human intelligences, a phrase I've been using since mid-2002. And I find it very
surprising to see this phrase being bandied about in the media. That topic is heating up dramatically.
It seems very clear to me that the U.S. and other developed nations, if we can call them that,
have been conducting a campaign of disinformation, misinformation,
psyops, hoaxing, threatening people, shaming people for many, many years, so that most people,
actually that's not true, a large group of people basically consider the topic to be laughable. It
certainly isn't. And obviously, this has been going on for many decades now. And we are now in a
situation where it is clear that this has been going on for many decades. There are people in the
highly placed in the United States government that are clearly interested in what we're calling
disclosure. But at a minimum, it seems clear to me, not trying to tell you what to believe here,
that the USG, particularly the branch of the Air Force known as the Avery, has long been in
possession of intelligence, vehicles, quote-unquote, bodies, materials that certainly arise from
intelligences that are not human. The entire field of what we, sorry about the noise for a moment
here, the entire field of what we refer to as the paranormal is undergoing a fairly radical and
sudden transformation. I have been listening to many people in the UFO community, Ryan Graves,
David Fraber, David Grush, a variety of podcasts, including Concrete, Next Level Soul, and the
Archives of the Impossible, which I strongly recommend. The field is changing quickly and
dramatically. It's changing from something that many people would dismiss as absurd or crazy,
to something that there's plenty, plentiful evidence of. And we face kind of a problem here,
because on the one hand, we have people who mimic these abilities, some of them very adeptly,
Darren Brown is one of them. And I strongly recommend that people pay some attention to
Darren Brown if they want to understand human cognition and the ways it can easily be manipulated.
It certainly can. Stage magicians have been doing this for hundreds, if not thousands of years.
And it's true that there are a broad range of technologies that would allow a magician to
appear to be psychic or to have supernatural powers, when in fact they're using gimmicks and
techniques. I've recently written an essay called The Door in the Sky, which you can find on my
medium page, in which I discuss the likely probability, in my view, that for most of human
history, there were directly accessible to us in consciousness networks of intelligences that
are non corporeal or partly corporeal, that were directly engaged with our minds. I propose that
the minds we have today are the remnants of minds that were born in direct symbiotic linkage.
With such intelligences, and in the model that I propose, I suspect strongly that there was a
catastrophe or a series of catastrophes that led in our people, the humans on earth, to the loss
of those relationships, and that when we lost those relationships, our species went crazy,
and continues to be crazy, extremely crazy. I'm going to put my little wind screen on,
so that may muffle my voice just a little bit, but maybe it'll protect against the wind for a
moment. So my proposition is that for the vast majority of the history of humans, we had access,
there was something in us, in our bodies, souls, minds, cultures, and so on, that acted as an uplink
to networks of intelligences that are native to time space, and may in fact be older than the
universe. They are certainly older than our model of the universe, because our model of the universe's
age is in flat time. A mode of time we are all familiar with, seconds, hours, days, measured as
if there is only a single world line. The 27 billion year upgrade to the age of the universe
recently is measured in this fashion, as if there is just one world line. And we measure time on
earth in this way, we are trained to. I've made many videos where I talk about the absurdity of
that perspective, particularly due to the uniqueness of the light cone of any observer. So two observers
with unique light cones are going to have two different experiences of time. There will be
features that may be shared in their light cones, but effectively, if you have two observers, presuming
that they are only comprised of a single cell, one quote year is at least two cell years, plus the
relationship between them, plus the relationships between them in the context in which they exist.
Now, of course, single celled organisms probably experience time
in a very different way. And I propose that what we would measure to understand their temporality
is meaningful events per second. At the cell, these are cellular metabolic events such as folding
proteins, modulating electromagnetic manifolds at the cell surface and in the interior of the cell.
And we have, for a cell, pretty much an unimaginable number of such events per second
at the molecular level if we move to the atomic level that rises by many orders of magnitude.
So the actual age of the universe, if we could conceive of a way to measure it,
that included the world lines and the relationships between them, would probably be
a number that is impossible to represent due to its incredible momentous quantity.
So what happened when the sky doors closed were sort of three things. First, I would argue that
prior to that, it was probably not necessary for human beings to make face noises in order
to communicate. I think that not only are we inherently telepathic,
being trained to make face noises creates further limitations of those faculties,
and there's a broad array of such faculties, not just one or two.
I don't claim to demonstrate telepathy, though it does occasionally occur,
and just as with stage magic, there are other ways to simulate that.
So one of the things that happened when the sky doors closed is that we started making face noises
and communicating in speech, within which it becomes vastly more likely
and possible for us to lie. I suspect that prior to the loss of our network connections,
lying was pretty difficult to pull off, and probably we weren't motivated to do so
because our feelings and emotions about the nature of our being and relationships
were vastly expanded beyond anything we ordinarily experience.
The other problem, and this brings up, this is the connecting thought to stage magicians,
is that when the sky doors closed, two primary factions arose in the wake of that problem.
The first was, and they got mixed up later, the first was
techniques, protocols, and technologies that could boost the lost signal
so that it became accessible again, and what we think of as religions are probably the remains,
the stratified fossilized remains of such techniques, protocols, and so on.
But then at the same time, we developed pretenders, people who could mimic
the character of those who were in touch through the uplink to the intelligences in the sky.
Most or many of the indigenous cultures had traditions and ceremonies
whose partial purpose was to attenuate those signals, to remember them, to conserve them,
and to keep those relationships alive. Obviously now we have vast
libraries of behavioral mimicry in the humans, particularly in the modern religions,
that are similar to what stage magicians do, or street magicians. It's a lot of fakery, and so
there's a vast library of humans who think all that religious stuff is fakery, they're half right.
There's vast libraries of behavioral protocols and so on that appear to be
effectively a contagious form of lying, and what I would call thrips.
There are also beneficial thrips, and some of the existing traditions are like that.
One of the features of beneficial thrips is that they don't tend to be conversionist.
They don't threaten people with things like eternal damnation, or seduce them with things
like eternal existence, life. Rather they focus on insight, wisdom, truth in relation,
truth in thought, speech, action, and concern, and not the kind of truth that depends on facts,
the kinds of truth that depend on relational integrity, deep relational integrity
that continues to become more integral as it develops rather than less.
These would be traditions such as Taoism, Zen Buddhism, Advaita Vedanta,
some branches of existing religions. The strange thing is that although we were colonized
by a bunch of fake religions, some of those religions that I think are fake
have within them branches that are deeply authentic and integral, and have in effect
found a way to recover the signal from within a framework that may be mostly lying.
So there's also like an opposite of the mimics where certain branches of a
thrisk-like religion manage to become authentic even though the shell is untrustworthy, untrue,
or conversionist, and in some cases malignantly so.
The idea that by killing up a bunch of infidels you can achieve some sort of
paradisical reward is one of the most dangerous ideas that has ever arose in our species.
However, the idea that you can rip nature to shreds for the sake of technologies
is a far more dangerous idea, vastly more dangerous.
So when the sky doors closed our people went nuts, we began building machines,
we began speaking and writing in formal representational language,
and that leads into the disasters that we promulgate today as a species.
And it's pretty difficult to not participate in those.
We all, most of us have homes, many of us have cars, we use grocery stores and restaurants,
and we buy products and so forth that contribute whether we wish to participate or not.
Some of us are ethically bound to attempt to defect from that.
One moment.
And I think that's noble and brilliant,
though many of us either have real world quote unquote, actually fake world
commitments that make that very difficult for us to pursue.
I certainly applaud those who have decided not to participate and to do whatever
they feel necessary to leave, to defect from modernity and all of its complex
malignancies that masquerade as convenience, wealth, power, luxury, commerce, banking, and so on.
So, regarding the paranormal, it's not so much a question, and this is actually a central problem
for us, it's not a question of belief. Belief is mostly a matter of opinion.
And how to put this?
I'm inclined to suspect that most of our opinions comprise ignorance.
There's a slice of that pie that often doesn't comprise just mere ignorance.
But most of our opinions have a lot to do with ignorance
and blindness and confusion and insecurity and doubt and so forth.
I would contrast insight to opinion
and insight is rarely concerned with facts. It's concerned with a manifold, establishing and
sustaining a manifold of perspectives that grant us otherwise uncommon or impossible
seeing. And I don't mean seeing like the kind we have with our eyes, I mean seeing
relationships, origins, qualities, potentials, possibilities
in awareness when we are considering some kind of a problem.
This problem, the problem of opinions or facts versus insight, revolves around the collapsing
of manifolds. A manifold can be thought of as a bubble of many bubbles. We have the term
definition, which literally means to collapse manifolds, to de-infinitize
situations in consciousness, thought, concept, language, mathematics. Many of the greatest
discoveries in mathematics did not come from collapsing manifolds. It came from re-ambiguating
them intelligently. And this, I would argue, is often the fingerprint of insight.
The Western world image, or the modern world image, is one estranged from our actual natures,
origins, faculties, abilities, humanity, and greater than humanity. What I mean by that
is that most of us, whatever we may be, is not merely human. I've touched on this point many
times previously, but the manifold that represents our actual existence, potential, and nature
is nothing like what we're told about being human. In effect, our humanity is probably the pinky
on a being with, you know, 10 hands and 17 wings. All of those are denied to us by the
mechanistic, reductivist worldview that presents beings, situations, and relationships as if they
are essentially mechanical dead inside, like the concepts we generally teach our children
in order to represent them. Obviously, there is a problem with representational cognition.
It's not that the mode itself is
blinding or productive of ignorance. Rather, it is that the particular ways we use it in concert
with the dead inside worldviews we inherit from society and our parents
are lethal to our potentials for insight and intelligence.
The paranormal represents, research into it represents an aspect of our human activity,
concern, relation, and behavior that is concerned with intelligent reambiguation
of what it means to be human, adding bubbles to the manifold intelligently, rather than
collapsing them just to the intersections of those bubbles and then collapsing those to what is
essentially a one-dimensional line. That is the way most of us are trained to use concepts,
and often when we argue, the argument descends to
what is true, what are the facts, what is the case. If Joe says it's raining and Tom says it
isn't, and we go outside, there appears to be water coming down from the sky,
we will presume that Joe is telling the truth, most of us. But we might want to ask
why the person who's saying it isn't raining is saying that. They might have a concern about
what is the it that is raining. Of course the it refers to the situation or the sky,
but they might be questioning a problem in the language and say something like,
although there is rain now, it is not raining and so forth. Now again, this would be a concern
with language, someone who actually declared that there is no water coming from the sky and had
the either the ignorance or the intent to deceive us would be understood to be wrong about what is
the case. The problem with the idea of what is the case is that it throws away in order to get
that last little stick, the remnant of what was once a manifold, a bubble of many dimensional
bubbles and identities, qualities, potentials, including potentials for our intelligence,
our sensitivity, our sensing, our relation, our learning. When we try to figure out what is the
case, we have to throw away most of the data to continue with the goal of collapsing that manifold.
In some cases, this can, this process does produce actionable mechanical intelligence.
The branches of human knowledge known as physics and particularly
the aspects related to metallurgy, electromagnetism, light and so forth,
these are the results of attempts to determine what is the case.
However, it should be clear that we don't understand the nature of light or electricity
or what their existence portends or is in some way an emissary of.
Most of us would be disinclined to think, for example, that running electricity in wires or
wirelessly through our homes and cities could have catastrophically deleterious effects on our
senses health, awareness and understanding. In a sense, you can see that the human capacity
to invent technologies collapses potentials we've either lost contact with or are unaware of
into apparently powerful derivatives whose domain of power mostly goes against the possibilities
of life, intelligence, insight and transcendence. I would argue that our species and all of the
organisms on earth are innately transcendent. In fact, I would go further and say that
the, even the material universe is itself transcendent, rocks and oceans and so forth,
clouds and skies and things. Because I suspect strongly, and this is an opinion, a bias of mine,
that the nature of time space is transcendent and that everything that we see represents modes of
time space. Very few humans even have this word transcendent and I would argue that most of the
things we are concerned about in the study of the paranormal are actually the intrusion
of partial features of transcendence into common human experience, behavior, questing,
questioning, learning and mutual concern.
It is clear to me, very clear, that there are authentic psychics
and the fact that some of those people who will call themselves by this name
are mimics or magicians does not dispose of the topic. And if we are going to be concerned
about people who are crazy, and many of us have had some degree of a taste of madness in our lives,
I am one of those people. Even what we would think of as insanity or craziness,
often, almost always, contains important seeds of insight that have been denied by the broader
population and have been concentrated in the consciousness of a particular person or group.
This relates to the idea that minds form networks. Those networks are like environments
and effectively what tends to happen isn't necessarily that Einstein discovers relativity.
Rather, it is that Einstein concentrates certain features of the transcendent nature
of the network of human minds in his time and perhaps beyond his time, localizing that into
insights. You'll notice something peculiar about Einstein's famous formula. E equals mc squared.
He starts with the unity. He doesn't start with the parts. Normally, in math, as we are trained
to compose it, we place the parts first. Two plus three equals five.
Einstein reverses this in his famous equation and puts the unity first. That one move
is almost the fingerprint of transcendence right there. Whenever we can think from unity into
distinction, we will find insight. We who are trained to think in the opposite way,
distinction toward unity, will mostly fail if we were to compare what we would understand
as the progress of these two modes of thought. For example, if you were to count your hand,
you might start with plus seven, plus representing the uplink of the wrist first.
One for the hand, then on the outside, and turn it over. One for the unifying body or palm,
because if we don't count the most important things first, a, they won't count, and b, we will forget them.
Four for the working members, one for the thinking member, plus seven. The plus is counted first
because it remembers the uplink. And across that wrist, you have things like eyes,
a nose, a mouth, ears, other organs, limbs, and so forth.
But you also have the same principle. You are one being, actually it would be plus one,
or we would count the body in a similar fashion. Let me back up a little bit here.
Plus for the uplink that represents origin and transcendence, time, space, so forth.
One for your body. Four for your, what we'll call your working members or limbs. One,
let's see, I made a mistake here.
One, okay, so plus some number. I'm not sure what the number is yet. It depends on
our purposes in counting it, what that number is. But it would start with plus,
then one for the whole, then one for the unifying body or torso.
We might count four for the working members, your limbs, one for the thinking member. In that case,
it would be the same count as your hand, plus seven. You will see that there's a
formative synonymy between the structure of your hand and the structure of your body.
Some people will call this a fractal synonymy. They're not entirely wrong, but usually when
humans think of fractals, they're thinking mathematically. And there are many features
of the nature of fractals that are missing from that perspective, important features,
especially that plus symbol, the uplink. The direction toward unity from what appears to be
a distinct embodied organism.
So, I would argue that the paranormal
is really an attempt to intelligently reambiguate where it is not an attempt to deceive,
and that is certainly part of it. But the weird feature about the problem of being crazy
is this. There's nothing we could do, well there's very little we could do,
that would be more insane than the craziness of our purported nations, societies, technologies,
and so on. These things destroy the possibilities of transcendent intelligence, true relation,
insight, and replace it with artifacts.
I was making a joke a while ago. I have a meme where there's a photograph of a car
and overlaid over the photograph. There are reasonable descriptions of what the technology
actually is. And I think the first one is kills by going. And it's sort of a joke,
but it's a very hyperbolic take on the fact that many of the human technologies are omnicidal.
Effectively, they kill arbitrarily and they kill everything. It's as if we're literally stealing
the ability to skip time by devastating the future and history of the life paths in the biosphere.
There's nothing crazier than that. That's about as crazy as you get. And there's no seed of insight
in that kind of insanity, the way there often is in schizophrenia or psychosis.
So the people who want to say there's no such thing as telepathy, you're crazy, there's no UFOs,
you're nuts, there are no ghosts, there is no way to heal each other with touch, with love,
doesn't mean attempting that's going to work every time, either. It just means it's not nonsense.
And the things that we believe instead are certainly nonsense. Yes, there's some nonsense mixed in there,
that's true. But compared to what we do as a species on earth in our modern nations and societies,
that kind of nonsense is relatively harmless. I'm going to take a little break and we'll continue
shortly. In my intention to explore these matters together, I'm not, though it might sound that way,
merely lecturing from the book of my understanding and awareness. I'm actually struggling to remember
because our cultures and situations, our isolation, our languages, concepts and ideas,
the milieu in which we exist these days is sleep producing. It puts us to sleep,
it denies the existence of transcendence and rewards effectively our worship of representations.
And so, like wings never used, I'm practicing remembering, I'm practicing my capacity to formulate
intelligent language insight and concepts in an effort to awaken to whatever degree I may be able to.
Yes, I am reciting things that I have learned to see and understand, but I'm also extremely excited
just to be able to have some time in the water of life, awareness and insight.
It's funny, part of me recognizes now that my vocal music has been very
stilted in a particular way and I must be emulating something that I've been recently exposed to.
I often find that when I'm watching a film or a show in which I feel perhaps unconsciously
a deep affinity with one of the characters, for some time after I stop watching the show,
I am likely to emulate certain vocal patterns, vocal music and the character of whoever it was
that I found compelling. I'm a little bit embarrassed and chagrined to notice that I've been emulating
in my vocal music and patterning someone I've heard recently, often in a case like this one
particularly. This is a sign that my faculties are not really at my disposal. My natural music,
my natural enthusiasm, I'm using a prosthesis.
And I find that a little bit troubling, though I'm attempting to modulate that now,
back toward my own more natural way of speaking and exploring. We'll see what degree of success I
may achieve here. It is my sense that if we were able to remind each other of the nature,
something that resembles the nature of existence that's just slightly, a slight improvement
on our everyday models and ideas, we would experience ecstatic wonder ceaselessly
in our awareness, in our consciousness, in our nature as more than merely human beings.
We resemble fish developed in an artificial environment in which
their skin was kept moist and their gills were fed oxygen, but they never had the experience
of being in the water. And that water is the water of our true nature, our origin. And by true,
I don't mean factual, I mean authentic. And that water is transcendent. It is like water,
it shares many features with the substance we think of as water.
But it is not a thing. It is more like a family of beings. And whenever we are able to
achieve even a very slight degree of insight, it returns the dimensionality
to our waking world experience that is, I think, what we bring to our human incarnation
and are intimately familiar with in early childhood and sometimes beyond.
And it's infinitely refreshing to have even the slightest drop of what we might call the water
of being. I myself, though I remember much of what I am sharing here today from my direct experience
with a complex non-human intelligence, I myself am like the fish taken from the water.
It's very difficult to see in consciousness what I am or in awareness, I should say,
what I am capable of formulating in language and thought. And these are not the same
mode of experience.
Language and thought deal with tokens, representations, concepts and maps.
Awareness is something a bit more like direct intimate relation.
And so I struggle too with being asleep within my waking experience and seeing the familiar
continuous world, hey, walking on the cement, knowing the names of the things that I see,
being asleep in the familiarity of ignoring all that I can name and conceptually recognize.
The project of representational cognition is incredibly expensive if it were possible for us to
merely flip the switch for a moment and if not turn it off at least dim it down.
The universe that would appear intimately within and around us
would be naturally, ecstatically, infinitely brilliant, beautiful, authentic, rich, intelligent
transcendent.
It would be transcendental.
But I, too, struggle. I need help.
Some of us suppose, with some degree of reasonable truth, that certain substances
can turn the volume down on representational cognition and also turn the volume up on intimacy.
This is not untrue. However, I've always thought that it would be better for us to have
endogenous non-ordinary experience before and perhaps even during our use of substances.
Certainly, when I even just drink alcohol, for example, I warm up.
And the quality of my consciousness changes and I am capable of
unusual conceptual insight when I'm a little drunk, less so when I'm quite drunk,
similarly, if I were to smoke some cannabis,
radically alters my cognition very quickly and that alteration,
unless I do it very regularly, which I am disinclined to do, thankfully,
that alteration is quite troubling. First comes monumental self-consciousness bordering on paranoia
and then if I merely direct it toward curiosity, that tends to fall away
and I will experience cascades of insight, demonstrable insight,
not just crazy making, quote-unquote.
The psychedelic substances are particularly complex in their effects
and in some ways troubling to me because I am afraid of our capacity to replace
the faculties and abilities we naturally have with a sort of light switch that just kicks us
into an alternate reality, whether we are willing to go along or not once you eat the mushrooms,
take the LSD, smoke the DMT, drink the Hayahuasca.
In most cases, we will be forced into
non-ordinary experience and I just think it would be better if we had protocols and methods,
technologies of behavior in relation, if you will, ceremony comprises one of these,
where we could realize that not only do you not need the mushroom and so on, your endogenous
capacities for non-ordinary experience are different from that and broader and richer
and deeper. And this is not to cast aspersions on psychedelics, I just have the fear that
for example, I would like my child to have the adventure of playing an elven ranger with a
group of other children in a real-world fantasy adventure firsthand in his or her body,
in his or her experience before my child played, for example, a role-playing game,
particularly a video game. So there's sort of three levels, right? There's the real-world
experience, which I think is something we're missing out on and something that we should
bring back into our traditions and culture, the idea of an alternate reality game, but
not with the kind of cynical backdrop that many of these have.
Then there's sort of pen and paper role-playing. And the reason these things are so compelling
is that we're starving for roles. We're starving for meaningful roles. And we're born
hoping to experience something far richer than merely being an elf in the Lord of the Rings.
And yet our culture offers us nearly none of this. So then we have, you know, args,
pen and paper RPGs, and the complete collapse of actual adventuring identity video games.
Now, I'm not saying that psychedelics are to insight and the non-ordinary as video games are to
our desire for meaningful adventure together, but there is a relationship there. And it's a
relationship I think we should pay careful attention to, with and for each other, with and for our
children and ancestors. We come to the adventure of birth, our eyes shining with the transcendent
illumination of our origins, remembering the non-human intelligences, the myriad non-human
intelligences that we are likely intimate with and learning with prior, just prior to our conception.
And then what we find here is in miserating, an in miserating lack of memory, intelligence,
awareness, and communality, meaningful roles, meaningful adventures. And it's true that even
in this very bizarre context we find ourselves in, we can recover them together whenever we should
agree to do so. And I'm a thousand percent on the page of let's do that, please, any way we can
find, let's do that now. And perhaps in my videos, in my recordings, I am calling to like-minded others
in the hope that we can re-establish beautiful ways, intelligent ways, insightful ways, playful ways
of recovering the more-than-human aspect
of our potential and our desire while yet we live. It's funny how I was laughing a moment ago
because I think I may have realized who I'm emulating. And it's not someone that I've listened
to recently. I think I'm accidentally emulating Carl Sagan's vocal music and tempo. Of course,
some would say, oh, you're channeling Carl, huh? Interesting that we have this idea that we can
channel, quote unquote, that presumes there's a network, right? If there's anything like channeling,
that presumes not only is there a network, but we can localize features of that network
from afar, in time, place, being. And I strongly suspect that that's true,
although again, among those people who call themselves channels, we have a vast array of
behaviors, from the deeply trustworthy and authentic to the, this is a game I am playing,
to I've learned to mimic what I've seen in others. And sometimes mimicry isn't all bad,
but it tends to go badly for us because our representations mimic features of our origin
that we lose contact with by relating with those representations intimately, particularly our cars,
homes, and cell phones. The representation replaces uplinks, and you can see
in each of those things, how that is so. This concept of the uplink has become more
prominent in my thought and concern over the past couple of months, and particularly the past few
weeks. When we lost, for whatever reasons, when the sky doors closed, then some of us, some of our,
some of the people who were alive during those times, and they're never completely closed.
But I think, I'm not sure whether it was a transformation in our species,
developmentally or evolutionarily, a transformation in our bodies and consciousness,
or a transformation in the local situation with the sun and the solar family, or a transformation
in the waters of time-space through which the sun pulls the earth, or some other kind of strange
catastrophe that I have no idea about. I don't know too much about why the sky door is closed,
and sometimes it appears that representational cognition was the cause of that. But I'm also
inclined to suspect that it could be the symptom of it, the rise of formal representational cognition,
representations like commodities and cash particularly.
It's still a mysterious topic, but the doors are still there. So yeah, we have channels who are
mostly fake, and we have channels who we can trust their authenticity.
And it really, it's just the same problem we have with religion. It's just the same problem
we have with all of the branches of knowledge. Why do we authorize those we authorize?
And we don't need to know, quote, what is the case, because again, we're going to throw away 90%
of everything to try to produce that derivative, which is useful and dangerous. We should be aware
when we're trying to figure out, well, what are the facts? We wouldn't want to throw that ability
away, but we also wouldn't want to overauthorize it. It will deprive us of agency, insight,
opportunity, faculties, and potentials. I've certainly encountered phony psychics and magicians.
I studied stage magic for a few years and was very interested in it, primarily because
it's a way to understand loopholes in ordinary cognition that can be captured for advantage.
But yes, we have the same problem everywhere. There are people who are crazy. There are bad actors.
There are people who are domineering. There are people who will take advantage of us.
Darren Brown's a particularly interesting example of this because he
will straight up tell you that he's using techniques.
Yet what he is capable of certainly appears magical and non-ordinary.
So he's a very peculiar mimic, and I suspect that if we were to talk with him,
he would probably blatantly say the paranormal is nonsense. There are no divine beings. There are
no non-corporeal intelligences. There is no such thing as authentic magic, i.e. true hermeticism,
true esotericism, something resembling true shamanism, etc.
He would say, I can show you how to do anything these people can do with few exceptions,
and I'm using technologies.
But I don't know what he truly believes, and all of us have something resembling
a public face. This is the face any old person will see of us.
A social face, the face that those who we become close with see.
A private face, only for those we are extremely trusting of and close to.
And then a secret face, the stuff that's so personal that we never display it.
And in fact, we may hide it even from ourselves.
So Darren must be like this, Darren Brown. And I don't know, one imagines that truly great magicians
eventually encounter the non-ordinary in its raw unfiltered form, unless
they are cognitively situated
by their biases and opinions to completely deny its existence, in which case
they may actually fail to see phenomena that literally happen in and around them.
We are each so unique and cognition is so powerful, the trance state of our waking mind is so powerful
that you could have three people in a field, one of them, they could be standing near each other,
one of them may see what they certainly understand to be a UFO. They are perhaps frightened and
astonished and amazed. Another person may actually see an aircraft that is familiar
and a third person may see nothing at all. This is the nature of light cones and distinct
perspectives in being. It's also the nature of our formal representational cognition
to cover over or dismiss anything that violates its dominance of consciousness.
I don't know what Darren Brown's world image is like, his view of reality or what he believes about
birth, life, death, mystery and so on, but he seems to be a pragmatist, he seems to be an atheist,
and he seems to be fascinated with manipulating human consciousness and his capacity for that
could easily deceive him into ignoring the actual non-ordinary nature that is accessible
to his awareness.
You know, there's two forms of craziness, there's 50 forms of craziness, but
two that I'm concerned with here, one is it imagines the non-ordinary everywhere it is not,
and this is usually what we mean by nuts.
I don't mean walnuts here by craziness, but there's another kind that is completely immune
to anything that violates its world image, and both forms are tragic,
unfortunately they're also both extremely common.
I'm standing among some trees in a park,
they are incredibly beautiful, and I can feel their spirit.
I don't think I'm crazy to feel that.
The hope of wonder and insight and learning is always with me and of questing meaningfully
together with like-minded others, and if you are one of those others, by all means, get in touch.
Thank you for listening, I wish you wisdom and bliss and beauty, I wish you ease with that
which troubles you or concerns you, may your life path dreaming in heart be joyful,
insightful, and brilliant.
Thank you for joining me, I look forward to learning together again very soon. Bye-bye for now.
