Welcome everybody, I'm here with my dear friend Mark Kevin Charlton Davis and today we're
going to be talking about his experiences with indigenous spiritual traditions in Africa
and how he initially became interested in and exposed to some of those traditions.
So I'm so grateful to have you.
Oh, thank you.
What a privilege.
Love you so much.
I love you too.
Bye bye.
And I initially encountered you during an experience that I was having where I was going to a little
shop outside of Piedmont that had some indigenous African spiritual tradition literature and
herbs and materials and I came across your book Thoughts from the Underworld then and
I bought this book at that store and I was blown away.
By the way, this is a picture of Mark around the time when he wrote this book and I was
just blown away and I thought I would love to meet this man and learn with him and understand
where his insights came from.
And then there was a time when I almost met you at the Oakland flea market, failed that
time and then some years later one of my friends ended up bringing you to my house and that's
how we finally at last met.
So I want to ask you a little bit about your childhood, your family situation, what your
religious exposure as a child, anything you want to share about that?
Oh, yes.
My mother is my primary example of spirituality for me.
I think my first word that I learned when I was a baby was Taurus and she taught me
about horoscopes and things like that but she was primarily involved with anything to
do with like, there was the African American politics happening at that time, we were in
Santa Monica and so there was a lot of black power stuff, she had the Afro and she was
expressing herself as a guitarist, a solo guitarist at the time and that experience was kind
of overwhelming for me.
My father died when I was four years old, he was killed in a car accident and that day
I relived that day almost every day, I can remember that experience, it's a constant.
I think that's probably my primary driver for wanting to go to Africa and reconnect
with those links and find out what is an African American, what is an African.
My father was from Guyana but what is that, what does that really mean?
So I wanted to explore all of those things since I was young.
Your mother was a very powerful, creative and from what I understand an extremely intelligent
woman.
That's my consensus.
Yeah, she was also very beautiful.
I wish I could have matched her in some way with some of my mates because she was very
beautiful and very intelligent and also really funny.
She used to close kitchen cabinets for their feet, the top cabinets.
She would do crazy things and she had a bullwinkle voice.
There's always a copying bullwinkle, you know, cartoons, yeah, but we had a lot of
seances at our house, we had Haitian priestesses that would come over and there were some really
weird childhood experiences I've had around that with my mom being a part of it.
Anything you'd like to share about one of those experiences?
Yeah, one that stands out is this is after my father died, maybe about a year or so after.
These people all came over, you know, sorry, let me retract, the priestess came over.
Now she's like almost a homeless person, sometimes we'd see her on the street, I could never
figure out who or what she was, but she was a priestess, right?
And so she came over and so when she came, my sister and I, we both hid under the couch
and watched the whole thing from the couch, underneath the couch.
I don't know how many hours, I didn't know time at the time, but I remember my sister
falling asleep, I stayed awake and I watched and then suddenly like the door opened and
a bunch of people came in and one of them was my dad who had already passed away, but
only the top half of them, the bottom half was missing and they all came and sat down
on the couch where we were right underneath, you know, so I remember the legs and I remember
the other chairs and people sitting over there and they were talking and then they left.
And I never connected with my mom, I wish she stayed alive long enough for me to have
this conversation, but I wish I could have talked to her more about that because shortly
after that she was so frightened that she dove into Christianity and became a Jehovah's
Witness. And so completely shut down on any of those conversations. So as a kid I never
talked about it and as an adult I wanted to but couldn't, you know, but that was a very
deep experience.
I mean with whom could you explore these things if not your mother yourself, right?
As a witness too.
Yeah, yeah. So do you think that would be unexposed to the Jehovah's Witnesses?
I did.
Have you raised in that faith?
Yeah, from the time I was about eight or nine, mostly nine probably, we started with that.
They had their religious people come to our house a couple of times a week to train us
on the Bible, learn all of the Bible books by heart, scriptures, I still remember them
because they really drill it hard into you, you know.
Wow, the whole Bible?
Yeah, the books, the names of the books and also the several scriptures.
Sure, sure.
But mostly just the names of the books. That's a kid, right?
I'm just going to make a quick adjustment here.
Please feel free to continue.
Okay.
So when, how, describe the transition between the time you began to become a Jehovah's
Witness and what happens next in your life?
Yeah, that's it.
So the ladies that came in our house, they were really nice ladies.
I'll never forget them, right? Three ladies.
I mean, the religions convincing them you have nothing else to go with.
Absolutely, yeah.
And they throw the fear into you that you're going to die if you don't do it.
So, you know, when you're nine years old or 10 years old, you just follow.
Yeah, it's very weaponized, right, against star vulnerable feelings.
Yeah.
And my mom, I mean, we, when she left California after that seance to move to South Carolina
and we were there for about a year and then we moved up to New England.
But the reason for her leaving was because of that seance, but she left everything behind
all of our clothes, all of our books.
There was no packing.
Wow.
She just ran to the airport.
Wow.
You know, so it was traumatic for us because I had a Dr. Seuss collection of books, you
know, and it's still traumatic for me missing those books, you know, so that was replaced
with the Bible by the time he landed in Massachusetts.
And so I studied the Bible really hard.
That was my book.
And about what age did things start to veer away from Christianity for you?
Um, 15 years old.
And what?
Yeah.
Talk about that transition.
Yeah.
Okay.
So by the time I was 15, I was really involved in the discoverers, world discoverers and
all the different, you know, gospel to gamma, Magellan and Columbus and all the different
ones, right?
And so I wanted to, you know, every time they talked about the natives, I wanted to know
more about the natives, you know?
Fortunately, white guys are writing all these books.
Yeah.
The natives are dying left and right.
Yeah, right.
Christianity.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, you know, I was 15 years old and I designed a necklace with fake sharks, sharks teeth
made out of balsa wood and painted them white, you know, and.
That's funny because I had a shark teeth necklace around 13.
It was really important.
Like Jaws was going on.
Oh yeah.
Right.
15 page report on sharks with drawings and species and blah, blah, blah.
So you got this necklace.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, you know, I carved it out of balsa wood, used primer paint to make it white and it
went to school and it caused so much controversy that it's, I started feeding off the controversy.
Either people making fun of it or teachers telling me I can't be wearing that and all
of this stuff and it was like, you know, this is cool.
So, that kind of, that was probably one of my first points of an intersection in the
road, roads trajectory.
Now, you're almost saying that negative attention was better than none.
Yeah.
Am I getting that wrong?
I think you're correct because the attention, the none attention was like being, just conforming
to what I'm learning and there was no varying, there was no dating allowed and I was really
girls were discovering me and I didn't know what that was, you know, so I had to, I kind
of dove down into a shell, you know, and a couple of times that I tried to express myself
to a girl, didn't work out too well, you know, there was a girl from Iran and I think I wrote
a letter of love or something to her and she did, I mean, we were friends.
I thought that meant something and he had to be friends and it means that, you know,
so that was my first lesson there.
I had so much trouble.
I would write, I would make up a code and then give the girl the key to the code and then
write her a letter in the code.
I was trying to do encryption when I was nine.
Oh, well.
I was trying to do encrypt our love letters.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
You were a smart girl.
Yeah.
But, you know, the girls kind of looked at me like, what is this about?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I get it though.
So, rebellion.
Yeah.
The rebellion kind of started.
I started getting, there was no information on Africa, you know, but back then World Book
and Psychopedia, you know, it showed a Caucasian face where the, you know, took up third of
the page and then every other race was at the bottom of the page in these little, you
know, jungle book looking little figures.
Right.
You know what I mean?
And I just wanted to understand more about Africa.
Couldn't find Hardy in my little school.
My area was Chickpea, Massachusetts.
Wow.
And Chickpeas outside of Springfield, really small, right?
Couldn't find anything.
But, you know, I would find a lot of Tahitians and the Maori people and Hawaiians and things
like that.
I started adapting those cultures into my own because it was close enough.
So, I kind of went with that.
And, you know, when I started learning about kahunas and, you know, the power of the gods,
you know, and how the gods were actual elements, not actual, not separate little ghosts or
spirits.
That was my first introduction.
Actually, I think it was reading Captain Cook's books.
I mean, that, you know, information from Captain Cook.
And, you know, also Paul Gauguin married a girl, Teha Amana.
Amana means power.
Right.
And listening to her story, even though she was just a little girl when he met her, you
know.
But listening, you know, I tried to glean from wherever I could find these little points
of native spirituality.
And that started forcing me to make some decisions.
So, you know, one time I came in with wearing a pants that were kind of low, right?
Kind of African style, right?
And they're called trugu and gana.
And I wore that and I wore an African flag tie.
But just the colors, not no flags.
Right.
And I did a sermon.
And after I was called down and confronted with the elders that was inappropriate, and
I wanted to ask why.
They said, well, it's, you know, it's against our regulations and blah, blah, blah.
And it was like, I don't know.
You're not speaking clearly to me as to why it's wrong.
You're not telling me why it's wrong.
Yeah, you're just saying essentially because I said so.
Yeah, yeah.
Right.
And that really irritated me.
So I started asking more questions, not at that time, because usually when I'm confronted
like that, I'm in shock and almost teary-eyed and, you know, trying to understand what's
going on, especially when I was young.
And, but I came back eventually and I asked them a question I wanted to know.
I mean, he had navels, you know, and when they got, they started accusing me of apostasy
for asking those kind of questions.
And that's when I decided, you know, this is not working out.
So even though I stayed with the religion a couple more years after that, I think it
was maybe 25 or 26 by the time I left it.
Well, it becomes so important in your life, right?
Yeah.
Because there's a high social coherence and there's something that resembles a community
and people's at least pretending to take care of each other and all of this kind of stuff
where outside the religion, it's very difficult.
Empty.
And I have those very important features of our lives.
I'm with you.
So a couple of years you kept going.
Yeah.
Outside of the religion, they call it the gnashing of the teeth in the darkness.
You're outside looking in the window, gnashing your teeth because you're cold, right?
Yeah, we're terrified.
Yeah.
It's a biblical scripture, but they use it with themselves that way.
And, you know, I just, everybody I knew that was my friend was a Jehovah's Witness.
Right.
And everybody that wasn't that I knew, I never associated with them.
So I didn't know how to make that cross-pollinization until I became a machinist in New Hampshire.
And I started meeting some crazy people like, you know, car mechanics, you know, like Corvettes
and stuff like that.
Yeah.
And that's when I started realizing, you know, there's other parts of the world besides
the Bible and dogma.
It's like, I can, you know, get into hot rods, you know, things like that and airplanes.
Yes.
You know, so I really started expanding at that point.
And along with that, my attitude started changing as to what I needed to conform to because
it had to make sense.
And literally, that's what drove me to Africa was trying to find what is the source of humanity?
What is the source of our religion and our science?
Is it there or is it not there?
You know, how does it make sense to me?
You know, it was weird when I actually went to Africa.
They never considered me to, they would say it.
Oh, yeah, you're African.
You're one of our brothers, right?
But no, because once I started learning the language, I understood what they were saying.
Wow.
Yes.
You know, they would still call me a half white.
White black is really what it means.
White black.
White first.
Yeah, white first.
Yeah.
Exactly.
And totally understandable.
My mentor.
You were American.
I was American.
Yeah.
But more than that.
More than that.
Because my mentor, when he left Burkina Faso and went to Europe and came back, he was born
and raised there.
Pure blooded African.
He left and came back.
They wouldn't, the village wouldn't take him back because of his influence.
They called him Asada as well.
So it's not even just, it's not, it's not the culture or the skin or anything.
It has to do with your village and your, you know.
If you don't have a place, where are you, there's no land that is where you are from.
Yeah.
Right?
You're not from this land where we live.
Right.
This village where we live.
Yes.
And our parents and great grandparents and everybody are buried here.
Yeah.
And the forest is over there and the mountain is over there and the river is over there.
Where, you know.
And those rivers and mountains are integral with the ancestors.
So when they say la terra, you know, I'm going to call upon the power of la terra.
They're talking about the earth.
They're talking about their ancestors that are in that earth, in the water, in nature and
trees and mountains.
Yes.
They're talking about the soil.
Yeah.
And it doesn't mean that, okay, well, my grandfather's marriage here, so now there's power.
No, there's probably, you know, tens of thousands of years, hundreds of thousands of years of
power developing in that, from those people in that one spot.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Focus.
That's what makes a difference.
Over time.
A mountain of power is there because of all the time.
For them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's why I never understood African Americans because it's like, we want it, and I did the
same thing, you know, we want to adopt into Oshu and all these different things, you know.
But they're, they're, they're, those are ancestors of the other people, other villages.
You know, we can't just like, oh, this is African, so it's us.
Yeah.
Yes.
It's the same.
Yeah.
The word escapes me.
Capturing the cultural milieu and language and so on of other people, right?
The same problem.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a limit to what you can do with that.
Okay.
So you're 26, you're leaving the Jehovah's Witnesses and you, you start working on cars
and you, you realize like, oh, this is the Southern world.
Yeah.
Working in a body shop.
Working in a body shop.
Yeah.
Working on engines.
Yeah.
Working as a mechanic.
Yeah.
And where was that going on?
New Hampshire.
Well, Massachusetts, I swear, right after high school.
My, my high school was a vocational high school.
Ah, yeah.
So I graduated as a car mechanic.
Copy.
Yeah.
And then, so I, you know, first guy I worked for was a Jehovah's Witness.
Had a beautiful wife, had a beautiful business.
I think he was cheating on her.
So that fell apart.
And I'm not surprised because I had to quit the job because this old lady came in to get
her car repaired.
And back in the seventies, rust would eat away all the metal around, around the fenders
and things like that.
Right.
So she needed this stuff repaired.
He had me filling it with newspaper and then putting Bondo kind of, some kind of tape over
it and then Bondo over it.
And then it's like, I can't do that.
I just can't, I couldn't do it.
I wasn't able to do it.
I had to leave.
Do you mean you couldn't do it ethically?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I just couldn't.
It's just a bad, you feel bad about doing this kind of fake, fake repair.
I didn't understand it.
I couldn't understand it.
And you know, at the time I wasn't suffering.
I was still living at home.
You know, I was right after high school, you know.
Yeah.
So back to when you're 26.
Yeah.
What are some of your first introductions to the road, the road that you would then follow?
Probably one of the primary one.
Okay.
So I did get married before I was 26.
I got married because I had sex before marriage and the elders told me I had to get married
or else I wouldn't speak to my mother ever again or my sister or anyone else in my family.
Oh my gosh.
Yeah.
And then, you know, I think six months later we filed for divorce.
You know, she was 10 years older than me with three kids, right?
I already had a life, had a house, everything.
And just, you know, that wasn't for me.
Yeah.
Sure.
Yeah.
So I left that and then by the time I was 26, I met another girl.
And I was, when I got involved with her, I got disfellowshipped as a Joe's witness because
of having sex after marriage.
Same basic things as communicated, right?
Yeah.
Same thing.
Exactly.
But she exposed me at the age of 25, 26.
She exposed me to Grateful Dead, drugs, alcohol, traveling, going to different places, doing
things, camping, all this stuff.
I mean, my first wife exposed me to camping too, but this girl did it a different way.
We went to a lot of, like, pork roasts, pig roasts, and things like that.
It was a great life, you know, listening to Neil Young and the Woods with these guys.
Wow.
It was a really great experience.
So that was a big pink Floyd and stuff like that.
It was Led Zeppelin.
All of that was brand new to me.
Wow.
You know?
I'd never heard it before.
Yeah.
And so that was a major change in my life.
What was that?
Still no African relationship.
There was no experience there.
With the exception of, so my mom dated a person after my father died, Ed Pupampu, a very famous
chief from Ghana.
He would come over to the house often.
And I would see him play the drums and then a speech on the beach, you know?
So there was Ed, and then there was Joseph Kwanza, another Ghanaian.
He was in Joe's witness.
He exposed me to Bob Marley.
Big mistake.
He's an elder.
He has a Joe's witness to this day, you know?
But he exposed me to Bob Marley and Peter Tosh and all of that stuff and ground that stew
and wearing frugu, you know?
And wearing African traditional clothes.
Yeah.
And Banku, you know, which was extremely important.
My mom used to make Banku, but he really showed me Banku.
It's a cornmeal mush that's in a ball and you have it with the boiled chicken.
It's really, really delicious.
Wow.
Yeah.
And so all of that stuff, those were gems for me that I was collecting as I was growing
up.
And then, you know, 26, I think around between 26 and 29, I met my next life.
And she was a French Canadian, really, really pretty young girl.
And she was a Joe's witness.
But that allowed me to get reinstated so I can, if I married her, right?
I got reinstated and was able to speak to my mom again after like four years.
Yeah.
So we did that.
And to this day, I still love her.
She was really special.
But I couldn't do the Joe's witness thing anymore.
The more I grew away from that, the more I grew away from her and everything about that
thing.
So I left her.
Yeah.
And yeah, so that's 26.
When I left her, I got involved with an African American girlfriend ever.
She caught me by surprise.
She chased me down.
But she did it in such a cute way.
It was during a snow storm and she was saying that she was out of heat and needed help.
It was fireplace wouldn't work.
And I had to drive through a snowstorm to get there.
She just wanted me cold.
I almost lost my life because of sliding down these hills and things in a VW bus.
Is there something good waiting at the end of that drive?
I know.
It is in a tunnel.
But she exposed me to Malcolm X and Martin Luther King, mostly the Malcolm X side.
She's the one that encouraged me to go to the Million Man March with the Five Percenters,
which were Malcolm X's defense team.
I got a chance to ride on a bus with them and go to the Million Man March for Farrakhan
at the time.
And getting exposed to more African American books about our culture and stuff like that.
A lot of it I didn't completely understand at the time, still.
Because I kept thinking, okay, well that's African American, yeah.
But I want to know where it's from.
I want to know what, you know, I want it to keep going.
Where's the origin?
Yeah.
And it was right around that time when I found Malidoma's book.
Malidoma Samay's book of Water and Spirit.
And I couldn't put that book down.
I couldn't put that book down.
1998, 1997, 1998.
I was ready to leave everything behind and find him.
I didn't know where he was.
But I wanted to find him.
I knew it was in San Francisco, California, something on the back of his book, right?
So I painted some houses and did some work.
I got a chance to work with some Tibetan monks building walls, stone walls.
They worked all day all night, non-stop, never took a break carrying stones.
Where was this?
In New Hampshire.
I'm sorry, in Vermont.
Yeah, at a friend of mine's house.
Just, you know, not really heavy stones, but it was constant, constant non-stop.
The nuns were there too.
Never took a break.
The girls never took a break.
So all of that was like, those were gems that were added.
Feeding years.
Yeah.
The soup is getting enriched.
Yeah.
The soup here, a little bit there.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
And then some may.
Yeah, then some may.
So I felt like I was getting that woke thing.
Right?
Or, oh, this makes sense now.
Now I know why they didn't have a navel.
They didn't exist.
Right there.
It was like a dawning for me, you know.
In the stories of what happened in Maladoma, a lot of it was very similar to me in different
ways, but very similar process of getting initiated into understanding, you know.
And so it was, it was a trying point.
Well, say some more about that.
Yep.
What was it about his experiences, if you can help, help me understand what resonated
and with what it resonated in your experience.
Like obviously you had this very shocking experience.
Yeah.
When you scared your mother, silly, as a child, where you actually saw dead people coming
in, you know, the room.
Yeah.
And you saw them.
Yeah.
Right?
So did you have other experiences on your own before you, before you encounter Maladoma?
Just walk us through a couple of the things that may have happened to you that were unique
to you and made you have questions, anything you care to share.
There was nothing that can top that one.
There was nothing strong.
Yeah.
That was, maybe I was seven or eight years old when that happened.
Somewhere between five and eight, somewhere like that.
But nothing, nothing, nothing has happened like that since.
Any non-ordinary experiences at all?
Nothing that I can't explain or might have been my imagination.
I mean, that last bit's a little rough because what isn't our imagination actually, right?
Yeah.
Even with the people coming in.
Yeah.
You believe though that that wasn't your imagination.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I can't help it.
That was just a kid.
Sure.
But it was just as real as talking to you right here.
Yeah, I believe.
And in Africa there were things that happened.
Yes, yes.
We'll get to some of that.
You identified with something deep in Mollie Dome.
Like I myself had a kind of a vaguely similar experience around the same time.
98, 99, 97 to maybe 2000, I was reading Carlos Castaneda's work.
Oh yeah.
And I was, this made sense to a part of me that had never really had a voice.
Yeah.
Right?
In my life.
And there were certain specific suspicions and questions that I had held throughout
my life that when I encountered Castaneda, boom.
Yeah.
It's like, maybe I should just go to South America and find, you know, or find Castaneda.
So the person that was working with the Tibetans, building the snow wall on his property, he
was a follower of Castaneda.
Yeah.
So he introduced me to Carlos and I read a lot of those books.
One of the things that really caught me was when they was talking about the Native Americans
having to apologize to the trees before cutting them down.
And that was like so beautiful.
And that was one of the things that Monodoma's book that I understood was that the trees
being alive.
I understood this too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like living beings.
So yes.
Yeah.
Not just living beings, but almost like living beings who are doorways.
Yes.
And they travel.
Right.
They travel.
And they are a traveling way.
Yes.
And this kind of thing.
And they can instantly connect with other.
Any tree.
Right.
You can go.
Yeah.
When my friend was in South America talking to an indigenous medicine man there in a little
village, medicine man said, oh, you know, back in the United States, you guys have this
thing, the internet, you know, but we have something way better than that.
Yeah.
Right.
And I think, you know, it's hard for moderns to understand this, but it's a very important
principle.
And I think you hope we could teach our children that everyone should understand.
Yeah.
The nature is traveling.
Yeah.
And it's a traveling family of networks.
Right.
And you can.
Yes.
Yeah.
All right.
So you encounter Molly Doma.
What happens next?
Yeah.
So one of the other things, the experiences that he had that I related to is the grandfather
having the souls of people that had passed away in little gourds up in the ceiling, you
know, hanging from the ceiling on ropes, little gourds of spirits and stuff.
I completely understood that because when we left California, you know, we got on the
plane rushing, you know, I was, I was trying to dress like Michael Jackson.
So I had a gold bell bottom pants.
My afro was out.
I was trying to look like Michael Jackson, but we led it in South Carolina.
The first time on a plane, watching the sun go down, seeing it as I was landing.
And I was got a chance to meet my grandfather.
We had 83 acres of land.
He lived on one end.
My grandmother lived on the other.
But he lived with his mom out in the middle of the woods, out in the middle of nowhere.
And so once in a while, I'd get brave enough because it was hard because there was always
escaped convicts.
So you always heard hound dogs and police.
You know, going through.
So I was always afraid to go out there and afraid to go back, you know, but I did it.
And made a bow and arrow out of pine branches and stuff like that.
Thought that would help.
But I got to see my grandfather and I was so afraid to go in, but I could see he had cans
hanging from the ceiling, you know, because he was the local root doctor.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
And even though my mom.
Is she your mother's dad?
My mother's dad.
Okay.
What was his name?
Jasper.
Jasper James.
Yeah.
He won the, what do you call it, festival every year for vegetables and, you know, fruit.
For having the largest, like, squash and watermelon, you know, he would win those contests every
year.
And he was getting help.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, he had a lot of science around it, you know.
And he worked as a full-time, full-time at Seasonal, but it was full-time for Barnum
Daly as a magician.
Really?
Yeah.
What an interesting combination.
Yeah.
Root doctor and magician and farmer.
Yeah.
And husband and grandfather.
Yeah.
As far as I know, that's it.
I don't know of any other skills that he had.
Wow.
A magician.
Yeah.
That's so ironic.
Yeah.
Right?
Because he's doing probably the phony stuff.
Yeah.
For the circus.
Yeah.
And then the real stuff for the home.
It had to be secret because of the Christianity.
Of course.
Yeah.
Huh.
Yeah, follow.
Yeah.
Okay, so you get to meet him.
Yeah.
What happens?
Yeah, he was, you know...
I mean, does he talk to you about anything?
No.
Not at all.
Oh, I see.
Yeah.
No.
I was amazingly afraid of him.
He was a...
My mom was super tall.
I think she was only 6'1", but as a little kid, just, you know...
Yeah, towering.
Yeah.
He was way taller than her.
Right now.
And he had ice blue eyes, you know.
Ice, like, silver blue lives, you know.
Wow.
Yeah.
So it dark-skinned.
A dark, dark, black-skinned.
So I don't know what to say about him.
He was shockingly interesting.
I wish I could have learned more, everything about him, but I never got the opportunity
to meet him a couple times.
Yeah.
But you saw the cans.
Yeah, I saw the cans.
And he had everything in his house covered with white sheets.
Well, you do that religiously, especially with African religions.
You do that, especially during certain ceremonies.
Everything's covered, you know.
The mirrors are covered.
Everything's covered.
Yeah.
Why is that?
It's like...
I'm not quite sure, but I always understood it to be...
It's like you want the spirits to not see themselves when they come to visit.
Yeah.
But that's kind of how I understood it.
Yes, that makes sense.
Yes.
But yeah, so after that, I'd go near his house, I'd look at it from a distance, and I would
try to ride a con and stuff like that around his place, but I never went there again.
He was a slave.
I mean, sorry.
He was born under indentured slavery, indentured servitude.
He ate out of the pig trough growing up as a kid, with other kids.
They would all eat out of the pig trough.
They were indentured servants?
Yeah.
Where do you know?
South Carolina.
Yeah.
Wow.
In, like, what?
The 30s?
The 20s?
My mother was born in 37.
Okay.
So maybe the 20s or the 10s?
Yeah.
What did it, what do you know about the indentured servants and their, like, why, how did they
become indentured?
What was going on?
Yeah.
I don't know much about it, other than that a lot of it has to do with debt.
Ah, yes.
Yeah.
Right.
And unfair business practices.
Yeah.
I mean, you passed on family to family.
Yeah.
You're just born into slavery because your parents have money or something.
And he had a lot of land.
Everybody wanted that land.
It was right on Highway 20.
Wow.
They finally ended up getting it.
Yeah, but it was, it was prime land.
All right.
We'll take a little break here and then we will return.
You okay?
I'm good.
Yeah, thank you.
