So here we are with part 3 so far of my interview with Mark Kevin Charlton Davis
about his life history and also his exposure to indigenous ceremonial
traditions in Africa. And where we left off was the water initiation which was
really just dipping. Yeah. And did you feel that anything came from that
initiation or? Not directly. Indirectly, slowly, over time. And mostly it had to do
with like washing away all of my preconceived ideas. Cleansing. Yeah. It was like a cleansing.
Powerful. Just dropping away. You know, I didn't feel the guilt and all of these
things that come with leaving a religion. Wow. Yeah. Wonderful. So how do you first
get to Africa? How did I first get there? Yeah. How did that end up? How did that
first happen? Okay. So I gave my notebook to Malidoma. And I met him at the same
time I met Governor Brown. Apparently Governor Brown was one of Malidoma's
regulars as far as going to get readings. But Malidoma was invited to one
of Brown's events and I went there and I met Malidoma there. Malidoma asked me to
meet him there. And I handed him my notebook and he said thank you and
checked it out. But a couple days later he called me and asked me to come work
for him. I came into the office. He said, you know, here's my computer. This is that.
Here's how you use the voicemail. And he started like covering all my expenses.
He didn't pay me a check but he covered everything. He paid for my ticket to go
to Africa to help him bring some of his students there. So that was my first
time. So where did you go? Down in Burkina Faso. And you were bringing students from
California? Yeah. Well they were from all over the United States. So we didn't
bring them on a plane. We met them in Magadougal in the capital of Burkina Faso.
But it was a program that he had. A year-long program actually. And I gathered
there are many different ethnicities. Oh yeah. But predominantly Caucasian. It seemed like
Germans are really attracted to that. Not surprising somehow.
So what happened? We get to Africa. Finally. Oh yeah. How did it go? You're in what? Burkina Faso?
First? Where are you first? Only Burkina Faso. And we were there because his
grandfather died. Maybe somebody in his family died. Maybe it wasn't his dad though.
But we had to go for that ceremony. And you know there's a lot of crying.
They instantly, as soon as they walked in, we got there maybe one in the morning or
something to the village. It was so cold because of the smells in the Adobe houses.
It was my first time experiencing that. There is no pavement. There's no concrete anywhere.
The smell of the chickens and all of that was there.
And then he started crying instantly. And then everybody started crying.
And then they all started coming out. And from that moment he stepped in there.
There was a month-long funeral. They were waiting for him to show up. And then even
one of the reasons why it was a month-long is people that were far away still had to come.
Everyone had to show up before they finished. So some of these people were old men walking from
another village. My first experience in Africa is a month-long funeral for his...
I thought it was his dad, but now I'm confused. Then what happens?
Well, that month-long experience was something else.
Share anything you wish. Some of the sacrifices were gruesome. They would take young goats and
they'd be on the roof and they'd be doing ceremonies holding the goats like this.
And then at the end of the ceremony, they'd smash the goats to kill them.
Of course, they eat them. They eat everything there. Rare occasion did they not eat.
But still, it was pretty gruesome. It was horrifying for me.
You'd never seen anything like that. No.
Animal sacrifice. And chickens too?
Yeah, lots of chickens. That was the constant.
Yeah. I got really good at doing the chickens. But yeah, we did cows, bulls.
That was really gruesome too. It was an incredible amount of blood.
They don't die slowly. I mean, quickly. They die very, very slowly. It was very hard.
And was your primary feeling during those sacrifices one of,
like, wow, this is really gruesome and agonic and painful for the animals?
Was there any feeling of power there or just what is this?
You know, I think because it was kind of shocking for me,
I probably lost the experiences I could have had with that.
You know, I learned how to do it myself and I participated, but I was still in shock.
I understand. Yeah. Yeah, I'm sure I would. I've never seen anything resembling that.
As a carnivore, obviously I participate in, you know, factory farming,
problem, all of these things, which is devastatingly wrong.
And Malidola told me that, I don't know why he told me this, but he said there was
one of the festivals we had during this funeral. There was a girl that was sacrificed and she was
in the soup. Real. Yeah. A human. I'm not sure why he told me that. I don't know if it's true.
You know, I felt like throwing up, of course, but that was one experience. Wow.
The hardest part about being in Africa for me is those kind of things. You hear these
really outlandish things and you have no way to verify what it is, where it's from.
And with the language barriers and everything, because there's French,
I could kind of catapult in the French, but I can't go into Dagora, you know what I mean?
So that cross translating, a lot of things were lost. Of course, yes.
The connotation trees of words in indigenous languages are very profuse.
And the connotation trees for English and French are very minimal, Harrison.
And so there's all these principles that just don't come across. When I was speaking with Ryan,
he taught me a phrase. I'm not sure.
I can't really remember the phrase and I'm not going to look at it at the moment, but
the translation is something like just keep going forward.
And it's sort of like just keep going forward in a dark time when there's trouble.
Right.
Shadows on the valley of death.
Right.
I can't find it.
But in Blackfoot, the phrase immediately recalls to mind the bison in the winter.
And the old bull bison is a long story here, right? Like some indigenous Americans
wanted to hunt buffalo near Yellowstone.
And so they had to apply for a license to the Parks and Rec Department.
And the Parks and Rec Department said, you know, we're really concerned about these buffalo herds.
So we want you to kill only the old, non-reproductive bulls.
So they hunted the old non-reproductive bulls. Those herds died.
And they died for this reason of this idea in Blackfoot, right? Which is,
it's not just keep going forward. It's in the winter when there are walls of snow and ice
and the bison are starving to death. The old bulls crash through the walls with their horns.
Right. And they just keep going forward until they bring the herd to food.
So those herds starved to death because the old bulls that crashed through the snow had been killed.
And you don't get this from just keep going forward. It doesn't help you, right?
It translates into English.
Stuff like that and you lose.
Yeah. So you're in Africa for the first time. This must be just mind-blowingly incredible,
even though you're not yet in Nigeria, the place of your own people. And you're with the people
of Burkina Faso. And for those of the viewers who don't know, talk about the houses.
Oh, I was fascinated with the housing. I mean, Adoli housing, they use Kalmanor and they mix it
with grass. And they, you know, they use clay to build the actual bricks and they stack the
bricks up. And then they cover it with this Kalmanor mix with a whole bunch of ingredients.
And they're able to smack it in such a way or something, they make it shiny. So it glistens.
Wow. And then they paint these beautiful designs on it. You know what I mean?
I mean, it must be at least some slightly similar to TP painting.
Yeah. There's some a little bit of cross quality.
Geometric shades and things like that. Yep. And the smell of the thatch, the grass itself,
the thatch roof. And they weed it in such a way that you look at it, you just can't stop looking at
it. It's almost like a Fibonacci scale kind of stuff, you know, really, absolutely beautiful.
I love it.
Talk, if you will, about the first indigenous person there that you made a connection with.
DDA. Yeah, that's a Malay drama's little brother. So when I complained about in white,
opened my mouth so much about that little twin that was in the cave.
I complained a lot. And he felt bad. He set up a meeting for me to meet another Shaman.
Now, this goes into the bizarre stuff. This is where I don't know what happened to me.
Good. Yeah. Great. Let's hear it. Beautiful.
So we spent all night going to this place. We were on bicycles.
And we ended up crossing a river, a couple rivers, the second river we crossed. It was
a nighttime by then. And all I could see is little yellow eyes around the river. He said,
those are the crocodiles. Just keep following me. And it's like, Oh my God, I wanted to panic,
but there was like no time to panic. I couldn't panic. I had to just keep walking behind him and
stay calm. But yeah, crocodiles, you know, and then we had to climb this mountain, small mountain.
We got up in there and it was a cave, an actual cave. I've never seen it like a cave before.
Wow. You know what I mean? That's a serious moment. Yeah. The other one. There is power in caves.
Yeah. The one Malay drama, Malay drama took us to was a cave as well. But this one was different.
This one was like, that one looked like maybe a lot of people go there. This one looked like
nobody's been there. There were lions paws, prints all around the cave and bones everywhere.
Because he said the native, the local people, they come there to feed the lions. So the lions
come there to eat. It's like, Jesus Christ, really? They come here? I didn't want to be there.
But we went to that place and that cave was on the property of this shaman.
And so the shaman, we went to his house first, right? And in this house, in the middle of his
living room, he has a well, a big water well in the middle of his floor. Yeah. You know what I mean?
Yeah. Really good sense. Yeah. And they sat and spoke about it. You want to travel
anywhere. You have a well in your living room that you got the doorway to pretty much any
place on the planet right there in your living room. It's true. Yeah. That's exactly what happened
too. Is it? Yeah. Yeah. He, DDA, I don't know, they were speaking together. DDA was worried about
something, a family issue, right? Maybe his wife or something. And they were able to look down in
the water and see, like, into his kitchen. I could see, like, motions and movement.
And I could see, like, it kind of images, but they were describing and talking about it like,
this is what's, you know, I just saw, like, images, you know what I mean? Like, I couldn't make out
like a face or something. But I could see, oh, it looked like somebody just ran over there,
you know, stuff like that. But it was in the water. Yeah. Yeah. It was so bizarre.
And then when we went to the cave, I expected to see Contomble there, but I, but there weren't,
there weren't any Contomble there. But it felt and looked like if there were, was any place,
it would have been that place. Yeah. And the lion presence was really strong. You don't smell them.
It was very strong. Yeah. So I didn't stick around that long. What happened in the cave?
Oh, we, I was insistent that we don't stay.
You weren't having any of that. Oh, I wasn't prepared for that. Wow. So you're still pretty
reticent. Yeah. And, and feel like cautious, maybe skeptical. Yeah. And it's not clear that this is
magic. These are, there are crocodiles that are killing animals. Yeah. We're eating human. Yeah.
You know, in soup. Yeah. The fuck is this about? Yeah. Something like this. Within a four-month
period. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Yeah. But you know what? After the third trip to Africa, I got to
understand it more because. Well, we don't want to leave too far ahead, but go ahead and finish
your statement. But in league with the crocodiles, because the bravery that they have in the car,
the little kids in my ex-wife's village, little kids would like take a string and put a chicken on
it and have the crocodile come and grab the chicken and pull it out the water and walk around town with
it. As long as they keep the string tight, the crocodiles just hold on to the chicken. Wow.
And they walk around with it. Because you can't swallow it. Yeah. Right? Yeah. Is that the deal?
I believe so. Wow. And the kids would be swimming in the water with the crocodile
sunbathing on the shore. They'd just be out there swimming. Wow. I can't, to this day,
I can't fathom that kind of courage. I don't understand it. Well, it's not really courage,
is it? Well, to them, it's their family members. Intimacy is what I'm getting at. Yeah. They call
them their family members. Really? Yeah. Those are their ancestral family members. Wow. I mean,
that makes good sense. If you realize that not all of our ancestors are human,
and the oldest ancestors are really profound to have relationships with. Yeah. And those would be
beings like perhaps insects and reptiles and snakes. Yeah. Right? These are the oldest ones.
Shellfish. There you go. Yeah. Yeah. Anything in the ocean or the waters. Yeah. The clams and things.
So, the cave thing didn't happen. You couldn't hack it? Yeah. Yeah. I complained. There was a
few things that happened. I started really liking this one girl there. And I was preparing to bring
her back to America. She was absolutely gorgeous. The thing, it was just too easy to pick a girl
there because everybody wanted to come to America. So, there was no way to pick one. You know what
I mean? There was no way to date one or try to find out what they are. They're all like, whatever
you want me to be. You know? Yeah. But it turned out that Malidoma always had her on the side.
And he refused. So, that's when we started kind of splitting up. Yeah. I see. Yeah. I let that
get in the way. And so, how did this journey come to a conclusion? With Malidoma? First time.
The first one? Oh, the first one. So, he left. Malidoma came back to the States. I stayed
for another month or two. And it was really sad because then all the truth of what people were
feeling and thinking and stuff, they came to me to complain. And even his parents, mom and dad,
that's why I get confused about who died because his dad was there. He was complaining about his
shoes because he wanted new shoes. You know, he was wearing these cheap little plastic sandals
that were broken. And it's like, Malidoma is really wealthy. He seemed to be very wealthy.
He wouldn't buy his dad some shoes. That's what they're telling me. So,
everybody was telling me these different stories. And I don't know the details of why and what
happened. I hear you. Yeah. Yeah. But it's like, suddenly, I'm the one, I guess because I was a
secretary, maybe, they just wanted me to, they just wanted to make a report. Yeah, I know they
need to get it off their chest in a way, right? Because it's heavy things. These are heavy things
to carry. Yeah. If you have to keep carrying them. So, you want to, you know, express them. And then
you can go on with your life or whatever, right? Yeah. So, otherwise, you get disease and trouble.
So, the people, many of the people came to you and did anyone have anything good to say? Or was
it all complaints? Was there any gratitude? I didn't get that part of it. I hear you. Yeah. I
didn't get that part of it. But the circumstances might not have led to that. Sure. Yeah. Yeah,
follow. So, what did you do once he left? What were you up to? One of the things that we were,
we had water well drilling equipment there. And I was helping everyone get set up with that. I
didn't know anything about it. Had to do crash course studies. I had to work with geologists
before going there to understand the system, you know, the areas that we dig and what to expect,
right? And it was kind of archaic equipment that we were using, you know, very old stuff. But
I managed to help a little bit. And I think after I left, maybe a month or so, after they got everything
fully operational, our goal was to set it up so that they could dig their own wells and be free.
But what they did after, maybe two or three months after, they got everything working and worked
really good. They parted the truck out, parts, sold it. Yeah, because they needed money. The support,
they had no choice. Yeah. I like the selling of the Blackfoot.
It's so poor that they just, you know, anything for money. But at the time, I didn't understand that.
I was really upset that we put a lot of money in time. We shipped that stuff there. I found the
stuff. Yes, but you have to give the money and the stuff, not just the stuff with no money.
Exactly. Right? Obviously. So how do you, so you stay there for another month or two? Yeah.
Any ceremonial stuff going on at that time or just working on the wells?
Just that. We had coup in Africa, in Burkina. What's this?
Military took over the government. Oh. So I was there. It was just before Mali,
I think Mali Doma left just before that coup started. It broke out, but it was pretty bad.
I had to hide underneath my bed. I was downtown. I was in the capital, Waluulu,
downtown. And I could hear gunshots, a little bit of rapid fire. I could hear neighbors' doors
getting pounded on and broken into. I was in a hotel. So they didn't bother the hotel,
but the little houses and businesses that were nearby, I think they even burned down the grand
mall, which they called the Grand Moshe, you know, really large. A bunch of tents and stuff all piled
up on top of each other, people selling stuff. But it's been there for a thousand years or something.
Wow. Like a main hub in West Africa. Huge, huge. And it was the Arabs, I think,
from what I'm told, the Lebanese, they were burning these areas down on purpose because they wanted
the property. And so that was happening. And also the leads, one of the lead band members of a famous
group, they caught him on the road and drove a nail through his head. And so people rose up
against that. All of that was happening. I went downtown when that happened. I was going somewhere
for some reason. And people were pushing and all kinds of stuff was happening. The police grabbed
me because I had their dreads. I think they just thought I was maybe something. And they just were
pushing me around and telling me where to go. But they were really rough, you know, the police there.
But yeah, it was quite an experience. Yeah. I was my first time being alone in another country.
It's very dramatic. Yeah. Pretty mildly. So you come back to the States?
Yeah. Yeah. So that's when I started, that's my first time getting malaria.
Oh, really? Yeah. Before you left?
Yeah. I could caught malaria before I left. I see. And I had to be flown out to
Arcada, California, because Mali Doma had some friends there that were doctors. And they watched
me for about three weeks, night and day, but I was deteriorating. And then finally, I was,
when it was at its worst point, for some reason, they were finally able to see what it was and
and take care of it. Yeah. Okay. So that is an encounter with death. So you're going to Africa,
you go through these experiences that you have there in your first visit,
and now you become literally, lethally sick. And then you come back here during that experience
of being lethally sick. What was going on for you internally? Oh, probably a big mistake,
but I had an ex-girlfriend in Vermont that I kept missing and thinking about. So I kept writing
music for her and thinking about her the whole time. Not very familiar. Yeah. I'm a similar
to the Lost Love. I'll somehow win her back through heroic efforts of wild creativity
and expressions of love. Exactly. Exactly. So especially Arcada, actually Blue Lake, but near
Arcada, it was rainy the whole time I was there. It was really miserable, suicidal kind of weather.
And these guys, these two ladies, they were lesbians, they were monitoring me, but they were
also testing me on all kinds of tests to see what my mental state was. They said my IQ was
like 148 or something. They did some kind of tests. Well, you're sick. Well, I was sick. Yeah.
They fed me and everything, but I worked there too. Well, you were sick? Yeah.
Yeah. I helped them repair things and fence it in. I insisted. Yeah. I can't understand why they
would do it for free, but they really, they were Molly Dummell's followers. Right? Yeah.
Yeah. So they had me on, but they were Jewish, or at least the main one was,
and they had me eating a lot of Jewish food.
And so mostly in your mind, you're focused on the woman?
Yeah, for the most part. You having any visionary experience or anything like that while you're
so sick? Yeah, a lot of it. Can you say anything about that? It's kind of convoluted because
there was something happening with the rainforest there.
Where? In Arcada. Okay. There was some connection with me there that was really confusing my
African experience. So I don't know what to say while I was there. I was only there about three
months. It's a long time, especially if you're sick. It's much longer if you're sick. Yeah,
I was there for a month of getting sick and then a couple, a month about healing. And then I kind
of worked off what I could before I left. But yeah, it was convoluted that experience. Say
something of the experience itself. I was staying in a small little, what do you call it,
not a mobile home, but a trailer, little camper on their property. And it seemed like I had this
connection with moss. It was like a really deep connection with moss. And it felt like my spirituality
had to come through things like that. You know, just, you know, the way moss grows and what,
you know, humans being a fungus or sporozoan, you know what I mean? All of those sorts came from
there because of watching the growth that was happening there. And it was, of course, it was
the African experience, but it was like learning it in America. Yeah, the African experience had
somehow prepared you and made you sensitive to the, to the living places and their, their inhabitants
and the ancestral powers and ways. So you come from, I mean, is there jungle in Burkina Faso?
Yeah, there is. Okay. Some pretty good stuff. Okay. Yeah. I didn't get that until my third or
fourth trip this coffee before then I was mostly desert. That's what I thought. Yeah. Right. So
you come from the desert and the experiences that you've had with the initiations and such
to Arcada, now you're in like redwood forest and stuff like this, right? Yeah. Yeah. A lot of rotting
wood. But a lot of fish and things like that, living creatures. Did you have dreams while you were sick?
You're constantly, at that time, I felt like, you know, I think I mentioned this to you before.
I was able to discover, you know, we still have static on TVs then, right? So I could turn the static
on and I could stare at the static and make it spiral. And I could make it spiral any way I
wanted to the right or to the left. So when I showed these ladies, and we did it on their TV,
they saw it. And it's like, wow, I feel vindicated. I'm not alone now. You know? So I went to other
people, right? There were a lot of them. I think the monster bowl is something you can demonstrate.
Demonstrate and share. And some of the adults didn't see it. But all of the kids saw it. Every
single kid was able to pick up. I said, which way is it going now? Oh, it's going to the right. Yeah,
you got it. It was just that tree experience. It's, you know, kind of like staring at the tree,
yes. The nature experience. I also found during my own experience that the children
immediately knew what's going on. Yeah. They know who's with me upstairs. Yeah. They know that one.
Yep. They signaled to me. I see that the one up there is with you. He looks like a wheel. He has
spokes, like a wheel. Ezekiel's wheel. Yeah. One of the children actually held up this specific
thing. Oh, he had the same toy in his house. Oh, wow. And he came to me and he held this up and he said,
Aloe Paolo, right? Aloe is his friend. I asked his mom, when's his friend's birthday? He said,
Christmas. Great. That's my birthday. Paolo means stick. He's showing me spinning. It's a spinning
stick. Oh, he's speaking Spanish. Oh, I see. But yeah, same toy, Paolo. Interesting. I don't know.
She told me it means stick, but I don't know. It might mean something else. Yeah. I had a short
experience in the islands of Paolo Mayombe, which is a type of spirituality. You have to go to a
graveyard and they cut your skin open and they dig up a body and they burn the body until it turns
to ash. And then they take the ash and stick it in your skin. And you've been through this experience?
Yeah. Oh, my goodness. Yeah. In my Atlanta, which is actually behind us, but it's near Cuba,
really close to Cuba. How? I don't want to derail the story. How did you end up there?
That was before I went to came to California before Mali Dhala. Oh, really? Yeah. That was in
my search for spirituality. It was on while I was on vacation. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. You got to tell
the story, man. How do you end up there? Oh, I mean, this is what the girl. What tradition,
first of all, is this? Santeria. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. Similar to this. Okay. I think it is
Santeria. It's dark. It's not good stuff. It's very dark. Yeah. That's all right. Yeah. I mean,
if you don't wish to speak about it, I'll respond to that. But I mean, there's not a whole lot to
say because I didn't get deep. I don't like traditions. I don't like going into places and
following wearing white, you know, hallelujah. I don't like all of that stuff. You know, I have
to have a reason to do it. I can't just do it. And that's part of the process, especially with
Santeria. There's a lot of ceremony. You know, you have to have to learn Spanish. Why? Why can't
it be in English? You know, that's my question. You know, sure. Why does it have to be Spanish?
But I mean, you know, the Conventation Web. Yeah. It's one answer. So how the hell do you end up
in where? My Aguana. My Aguana. Yeah. And where is that? It's an island in the Bahamas. Okay. Very
close to Cuba. How do you end up there? So my ex-girlfriend, the one that was pining over when
I was in Arcada, we went there on vacation. Okay. And while I was there, we got into competition,
did some competition. A little embarrassing. What do you call it? Beauty contest. Okay.
There's male and female. So she came in second or third place on the female. I got first place on
the male. And she blew up, got real angry. And we got into a big fight while we're in the Bahamas
on vacation. Yeah. And your boyfriend's not supposed to win the beauty contest. No, all right.
All right. That's supposed to be the girls thing. I know. I didn't even want to do it. She's the one
that pushed me to do it. Right. Well, great. That's the problem right there. I wasn't going to do that.
She burned her own thing. She put her finger in the fire. Right. And it got burned. And then it's
your fault. My fault. That's what happened. I'll stick to it. But also, I, you know, I left the
hotel and went to a restaurant and there was a really beautiful Bahamian girl there that I,
you know, got her number and kept her number. When we got back to the States, the fight continued
and we ended up splitting up temporarily. And then I went back to the Bahamas to find that girl.
And then she took me out to Maguana and introduced me to all this stuff. And then I brought her back
to Massachusetts. She stayed with me for about six months until my ex-girlfriend decided she wanted
me back. So she threatened her on the phone and scared her to the point where she ran back to
the Bahamas. And that was the end of that. Wow. I mean, obviously your spiritual path, right, is being
sort of gravitically affected throughout this whole story. There's these moons, right? There's
these women, gravity, the drawing. Yes, you're great. That's siren. The draw you into experiences.
So I'm just trying to understand what was in your mind when you went to the ceremony.
Did they actually dig up a dead human body and burn it? It was already done when I got there.
Okay. Yeah. They had the ash already? Yep. I see. Okay. And we did the ceremony at
the Great Raven, right? Yeah. Didn't last long. And where did they put it? Well, I got it on the
top of my head. I got two marks on the top of my head, one from there and also one from Benin.
But most of the top of my head, they did something on my back, but I'm not sure what it was.
But they did back there. Yeah. But I still got the scar on my head. And this is before you go to
Africa. Yeah. All right. So Africa trip one wraps up. You get malaria, you come back to
California, you're in Arcada with the Jewish lesbians. Yeah. You're sort of feeling into
the power of the forest there. Very strongly. Very strongly. Yeah. Any specific experiences
that you could share with them? The moss there, it was like, it spoke to me. It was like the
moss was like one gigantic, maybe the size of Texas. Wow. You know, it was like a being. Yeah.
Yeah. It's still very strong. I still rely on that. Yeah. Yeah. This is a different kind of
initiation in which the humans are not directly involved. Yeah, it is. Yep. A very good, thankfully
we have these kinds of initiations. Yeah. Right. Because if we have to depend only on humans,
there's a bunch of mess in there. There's tradition. There's some fakery. Yeah. There's some charisma.
Right. Let's just sculpt it. Yes. Yes. Competition for power. There's hierarchy in nature. You don't
really, I don't really get those human problem things. That's right. You don't experience. Yeah.
More pure. So what happens, what's the next chapter like after Arcada?
So like, you know, we had another meeting with Malidoma. I, you know, a big meeting with all of
his students and everything, maybe 40, 50 people. And I complained about everything out loud in
front of everybody, which I shouldn't have done. I got really dramatic. I even fell on the ground
crying and all of that stuff. It was really embarrassing. I think actually it's embarrassing
to think back on, but you must have felt something very, very profound to be willing. Yeah. And I'm
kind of wondering if, again, this rebellion, right, like the thing in school where you notice
like, I will get it, you know, they'll pay attention to me if I do that. Yeah. I mean, I don't know.
I'm not making this claim, asking the question. Yeah. Yeah. I guess I expected my mentor to
not be somebody who's cheating on his wife, that not, you know, take someone that's supposed,
that I was expecting to be my fiance and just like, oh, well, she's mine.
You're married? Yeah. How many women are yours? Yeah. All the women here? And I didn't understand
in Africa, that's totally acceptable. I didn't know what that was. So, yeah, there was a lot
of complaints and none of it was my business. You know what I mean? Really, you know, I couldn't
understand why Malay Dolan was always drunk, like all the time, stupefied drunk. You know what I mean?
Like amazingly drunk. I've never seen anything. I mean, look, Chogan Trumpa, many very brilliant
teachers, you know, you'd show up at the airport to pick Chogan up and there'd be a box of booze
that he'd be carrying. So I've heard. The shamans that when we had our, waiting for a month or so,
they all got stinking drunk. Really? Yeah, pee in their pants and all that stuff. Yeah. Wow. Yeah.
It was very tragic. Drinking is amazingly serious. You know, it's so contagious and it's almost as if,
again, there's something missing from our experience of having a meaningful role and meaningful
relationships and a meaningful life and the alcohol just sort of fits in that groove somehow.
Yeah, it picks up the slack. The pain we feel at being lost in our lives. Yeah. And then it also
produces more of that pain, right? It doesn't solve the pain. It sort of continues. It should feel
better about it growing. Yeah, exactly. Okay, so the big meeting then. Yeah. So that was pretty much
it with my relationship with Malinoma. That kind of ended at that point.
So I started off doing my own thing. You know, I went down and joined the new Black Panther
Party at the Uhua House in Oakland, you know, to get more experience with the Black culture here
in California. I went back to Africa with, do you know Angela Davis? I know the name. She's
famous, Black Power from back in the 60s. But I went with her sister to Africa, back to Donald.
She wanted to kind of witness some of the stuff that was happening there as well.
So, but Malinoma didn't treat her very well. It's like, you know, you're dealing with like
really famous people. You can't even treat them well because, like, they did pay the ticket
for you. I mean, because he, you know, he charges people like $3,000 to come to his village,
that including the plane ticket. She just decided to go to check it out. And now she's
being treated unfairly, you know? So I didn't like that. That sounds like gatekeeping. Yeah.
Right. But also, you know, he was running a business. He didn't want people that didn't
pay to show up. That's unfortunate. Yeah. That's very much gatekeeping, right? He's like,
I'm the gatekeeper here, you want in, you pay me. Yeah. You know, you don't pay me,
you know, come in or you come in without paying me, there's going to be trouble. Yeah.
That's, well, what can you say about it? I mean, yeah. All right. So that was the end of the
situation with Malinoma, pretty much after that. But we still stayed in contact. I still really
love him and miss him. And the more I understood that, you know, maybe he got wrapped up in what
he was saying and just kind of going the wrong path. You know, and he's the one that told me
that that's the biggest danger with shamans. Yes. You know, is that, yep, you see,
affect people and you can get financially paid for it. People start making wrong decisions.
Yes. Yeah. I mean, even in ordinary pursuits, right, actors, you know, you make a film or
you're a hit man, now you got to make hit man films for this film. We have Nissan memory.
I know, right? It's true. It's terrifying. It can easily collapse in that direction.
But your story is still the central feature of where we are here. So how do you get back to
Africa? Or is there an interim? Yeah. So in my despair, Malinoma's neighbor came over to bring
us some beer, right? Because it was, you know, it's got to be replenished with beer or millet
beer is what they drink there. And she was really cute. Is this in? In Burkina Faso, in Magadugu.
Malinoma's next to her neighbor. So different tribes, she's from a different tribe,
but in Magadugu, everybody's from everywhere. So I went back again to, I mean, I stay in contact
with her, develop kind of relationship. I thought they were love letters. They really were all,
I mean, it was written in French, so it looked so, you know, sexy, romantic. I thought she was in love
with me. So I went back to pick her up and bring her here. And, uh, yeah, I didn't realize that
when I was reading and translating the French that it wasn't, it wasn't love. It was like, you know,
preparation to come to America. She'd say, be you at the end or something, but it doesn't
you know, so I went back there again. And that was a wonderful experience. That was a wonderful
experience both times. I went there, when I went back there, we did a traditional ceremony there
with her family. And we came back here. It was really romantic. It was really sweet,
seeming, you know. And as we're coming back to San Francisco, we're landing the airport. She looks
out over San Francisco. She says, all of this looks like trash. And it never got better.
By the way, like that's, I mean, that's the same thing the forest would say.
Oh, sure. Right. Yeah. What is that? Yeah. It looks like garbage. Yeah. It's like garbage
stacked up really high. Yeah. But I'm with you. Yeah. And even on the plane coming here,
I had to sit in a separate area of the plane because I couldn't, she, all she kept talking about
was her ex-boyfriends. And it's like, I don't want to talk about the whole plane trip, 19 hours or
whatever it was, 13, 14, I think it was 19. It was something ridiculous. I didn't want to just
talk about your ex and how you cheated them or how you left them behind and laughing about it.
I didn't want to hear it anymore. Of course. And back then I was overexaggerated. I would never
have left her today, but I decided to go sit somewhere else. And then eventually I came back
and sat down with her and as we're landing, she says, oh, it looks like trash. And it was,
never got better after that. She didn't, she always talked about how much she hated being here.
So we planned on going back. And I said, okay, I'll give up my beautiful job,
engineer, gave up my job, threw away all my stuff, even my high school yearbook,
all my storage stuff, packed everything up in the Cherokee and decided to drive across
country up to New York. That way I could visit my family and say goodbye to everybody. It was
one-way ticket to Africa. And the closer we got to New York, the meaner she got. It was weird.
It was really weird, but it was good that I went back to Africa that time because then I got a
chance because of her and her families, they are extremely spiritual, very important, not her,
so per se, but her family. They're the ones that all of the elders go to
for that area. And they even have a king, there's a king there for those shamans.
I got a chance to meet him. He had 300 wives and 1,100 children.
Really? Yeah. Literally? Yeah.
I mean, it's hard to wrap one's mind around a number of that. Do you believe that he actually
had that? Because she herself is one of 43 kids just with her dad.
So you think he truly had 1,100 children? I'm not trying to do that. No, no, I know it,
but it's just hard to wrap my mind around it easily. Oh, wow, my goodness. 1,100 children.
I mean, that reminds me of Beehives or something. It's not even conceivable.
But 300 wives, that's like one a day almost, right? Right. I guess. I don't know.
So what happens? So you've left the United States with her. You guys aren't getting along.
Not getting along, but I'm trying to make it work. We bought 43 hectares of land,
started a farm, bought the bulls and the goats and all kinds of stuff. Chickens and lots of chickens.
Yeah, cows. Bulls. We didn't have any cows. What do you get milk from goats? I didn't drink much
milk. I had oak red corn, mainly in peanuts is what we grew and the type of collard green
that they have there, that's so amazingly good. What's it called? It's okay. It doesn't, we don't
have it here. But you take that with shea butter and peanuts and it's like really delicious.
What's shea butter? Yeah. What is that?
They have the curry tea. It's shea butter. It's like an oil from a plant.
Yeah. We've gone from greasy oil. I use it in my hair a lot. But you can cook with it and eat it.
So it was great. I remember some stories about this farm. Serious stories. Yep.
Yeah, it turned out a couple of reasons why I shouldn't have bought that land.
That's the reason why I'm so cheap too. One is because it was a vector, it was a highway for ants,
for termites. The termites here, they built these really large, I mean they almost look like mountains
sometimes. Yeah. Huge, right? But that was their territory and we built the house right there.
Out of what? Out of mud. Okay. Well at least termites don't eat mud.
Oh, they'll bury you right through it. So I woke up one morning, so many stories.
Woke up one morning and I could see a little dirt coming out the wall.
And then I see another one and then I see like 10 and I'm watching it. And then I see the ants
coming out and I'm waking up because we had like 19 people living with us, right? By the way,
you're calling termites ants, right? Yeah. No problem. Yeah, I'm not sure what the difference is.
No, they're both hind and off truck. Oh. They're similar, yeah. They were pretty good size too.
Yeah, yeah, I believe it. It's Africa, it's not the United States, it's not these little termites like
this. No, no. This is the old termites, right? Yeah. First termites. They look like they bite you,
but I don't think they do. No, I don't think so. But I was terrified because they started pouring
in after they got the hole big enough, they were just like fall out. And then like thousands of them.
So we had to vacate, we came out and we went and got help. And I was trying to pour gasoline,
I started starting to get, I didn't start pouring yet, but I was starting to get the gasoline to
pour it on them and light them on fire. But I mean, the house has got a fax roof, so I was limited,
right? I thought maybe the gasoline would at least kill them, but there was too many of them,
there's nothing I could do. And so the neighbors all came out wearing white robes and white,
everybody was dressed in white. Only to tell me, can't touch them, traditionally. Right.
You have to let them go through. To power. Yeah, let them go through. It's the terrorists too,
right? Let them go through. Yeah. I could put maybe salt around the house so they could go around it,
but I can't kill them. Yeah. So I had to let them do their business. And they threatened you?
No. Okay, I just told you. Yeah, they just tore the house up. You had to reek, but you know,
it's mud, so you just re-patch it up, going with your business. That was one incident.
Another incident was sleeping at night and I could feel the ground rumbling. And you know,
I heard this purring outside, but every time the purr, it was a rumble. The ground would rumble,
you know what I mean? And everybody said it was Lyon. It was a lion. And it was really,
really scary because it was, you could hear it snipping around the wall. It's just a mud wall.
Didn't like that too much. And the field. No one usually would think in the west
that the lion will make the ground rumble. Yeah. Yeah. I'm with you. Go ahead. Yeah.
It was really heavy. And the place where we built, the second reason why it was not good to build
there is because no one else would build there because of the demon activity on that property.
So there was a field where all of the ancestors, they call them, but they were like demons,
right? They would all meet there and have a party. And, you know, I was there for
a couple of years. Didn't hear anything until one night, maybe in the second year, the second
summer. Yeah. There was something there. Absolutely something. I can't explain it.
When out of that field, everybody was out of, gone. I was the only one there because I was sick
with dysentery, had dysentery. And I was always sick. So I had dysentery. Couldn't really move or
anything, but I heard that noise out there. I had to go see it. So I got up, got dressed, got out there.
Even though it was my land, it was a long walk, right? Between there were my houses in the river.
And I got about halfway out. And it was the singing and laughing and talking was so loud.
It was, I couldn't even hear myself think. It was nothing there though. Yeah. It was amazing.
And I wish I had somebody that wouldn't need to, you know, to witness that.
Yeah. But that was the other reason why nobody built there.
Did people ever come to the land? No, no one ever walked out there either.
That's where I would go to use the bathroom though.
Really? Yeah. It was private.
And that's where a black mongo was there. It almost got me. It was a little baby one.
But they said the baby ones are sometimes worse. Yeah. The young, young snakes often have more
powerful bandages. I was just relaxed. You know, my own business, doing my thing,
and I look over and I couldn't believe it. It was like maybe to the coffee table.
But that far away, where I could reach him, it just curled up and watching me the whole time.
And I couldn't stop. I had finished. Of course.
But I finished and quietly walked back out of there and got out of there.
There's a recurring theme here of encounters with death.
Very close encounters with death and not just death, but the spirits of the dead and the powers
of the ancestors and the beings who have come before us and died and now still live in some way,
somewhere. The illnesses, right? There's like this heartbeat of illness, illness,
injury, illness, right? Oh yeah. Getting buried under the ground, then getting cleansed by the water.
First the fire, then what? The burial? Or the mineral? No, nature.
Fire, nature, burial, mineral water. Yeah, water was the last one.
All right, let's pause here for a moment and then we continue. Okay, excellent.
