And so we're back for part two of an interview with Mark Kevin Charlton Davis,
and I think we left off. You've met your grandfather, and you've seen his place,
but you don't really get to spend a lot of time with him, and you're very intrigued by the
exposure that you've had to both African Americans and also your curiosity about Native
cultures, particularly in Africa, but also around the world, and the dearth of, you know,
accessible material for you, and then your exposures to Malcolm X and Martin Luther King,
and Peter Tosh, and Bob Marley, and sort of exploding out of that very constrictive
Jehovah's Witness environment, and then also being separated from your mother by that environment,
and then you encounter Bollywood Somay's work around this time too, and so lead us into
you somehow get to Africa. Yeah, so leading up to that, that exposure of watching Maladoma go
through that initiation process as a child in the Book of Water and Spirit, it was kind of,
it really related to me because of that survival that you had, I mean they would take 20 to 30 kids,
20 to 30 kids out into the jungle, and they had to survive on their own. They were taught lessons,
there were four or five elders there, you know, so there were, you know, there was adult supervision
to some extent, but you're talking 12, 12-year-old to 16-year-old roughly,
kids that were all brought out into the into the forest to survive, very, he brought up a lot in me
because I want to, this is for the purpose of explaining why I wanted to connect with Bolly
Maladoma. When I was a child, if I went off, you know, you go outside, if I'm carrying a
sandwich, like a ham sandwich or something like that, and back to me called the sandwich,
but if I went out with the sandwich, the other kids, the teenage kids would take it away from
you, right, sometimes with a gun, put a gun in your head and take your sandwich. Wow, yeah, yeah,
one time on the beach, this fat kid, he couldn't get away, we all ran away because this guy had a
gun, right, and we all ran, but the fat kid couldn't get away, and they found some human waste in a
plastic bag that washed up on shore, so it was green and blue and all kinds of stuff, and they
made him eat it, they squeezed it into his mouth and made him eat it while holding a gun to his head.
I don't know why I stood to watch that, but I was in so much shock, I stood and watched.
Where and when did that kind of thing take place? That was in Santa Monica,
maybe 66, 67, something like that. Wow. Yeah, my mom, she had a breakdown,
nervous breakdown, she calls it, but they gave her blood transfusions, like three of them,
so I'm not quite sure what that's about, but she was, for almost two years, she was like absent,
maybe she was there, maybe she wasn't, or came and left, but I know almost never saw her,
so we were babysat a lot, and I spent a lot of time, by the time I was seven, I knew Los Angeles,
I knew how to get on a bus and go downtown, we went everywhere, did everything, three in the
morning, I'd come home, and I didn't want to be at home with that babysitter because she
would molest, she would attend to a molest, and so I would try to stay out as long as I could,
so I spent a lot of time on the street, and so that story about Malidola having to deal with
molestation in the Catholic Church, and then having to run away from that as a teenage,
in his late teens, and run away from that, and 100 mile walk back to his village,
the stuff he had to go through there, I related to it, I understood that,
so yeah, by the time I was ready to come see him, after I finished painting the last house,
I was working on it, the guy paid me six grand or whatever, I packed everything I owned in my
Jeep Cherokee and came out to California, and I've been out here ever since, but it was primarily,
it was Malidola that brought me out here, didn't know where he lived, I went to LA first,
stayed with my uncle for a couple days, got robbed, everything I owned that was in the
Jeep Cherokee was spread all along the street, as far as you can see, but stuff was everywhere,
I don't even know what they took, they took all my jewelry and stuff like that, but my clothes,
they just left them all over the street, but I stayed there for a couple days and then I left
LA and drove up to Oakland because I knew he was in San Francisco, but I didn't know where,
got on 580 and pulled up into Oakland Hills and fell asleep up there, and
I managed to get ahold of his society and they connected me with somebody who was willing to
take me in for it because there was a special event coming, so they allowed me to come and
spend the night there and stuff like that, I gave them my book, the book was passed on to
me, I mean that book, my notebook, writing just epiphanies, silly stuff probably, but
it was enough to catch his interest to where he decided to call me and he called me and
sure enough right where I fell asleep on 580 was right where his office was, so I knew exactly
how to get back there, and it was right up on Skyline Boulevard, so I went there and he had me
work for him as the secretary for a couple years at that point. And what years are those about?
2000, 1999 to 2001. Okay. Yeah, yeah. And so did you see him in ceremony, did he teach you?
A lot of ceremonies, yeah. Tell us, tell us what happened. Yeah, the ceremonies are beautiful.
Um, now granted, there's a lot of negative, you know, things around surrounding Maladoma,
right, and whether it's his stuff, whether the stuff is real or not, but I kind of understand
where he's coming from because he was trying to take things that are very traditional and
transcribe them into something that we could use here in this country. It's not going to be
exact, we don't have the exact anything. Yeah, it's a similar problem of like Michael Harner
and shamanism and, you know, him having been an anthropologist, right, sort of producing a
an Americanized version. Yeah, Michael Harner stayed at the place I was at. Oh, so after,
remember, I was saying I was staying at a place right after I fell asleep and I finally found a
place where I could go that Michael Harner was staying there. Through Nairopa, I think it's in
Colorado, he was a speaker there and there was a circuit of speakers, shamanic speakers. So
Maladoma was one and he was another one, Michael Harner, and there was a few other other ones.
Yeah, Harner was my first direct team in exposure to shamanistic traditions and
there's certainly, it's easy to be critical about, you know, various features of how
it gets sort of captured by white culture and so on, all of these things. Yes, of course, we can
be concerned about that. But it was a really profound thing to meet him. And I was in a room
with about 200 other people, but I managed to get his attention when I first went in.
And so he paid attention to me personally throughout the thing. So I got some like one-on-one
stuff with him. And at the time, I was curious and I'd read Castaneda, but I was also skeptical.
Right, like I had the experience, he did the drumming, right, taught us like three basic things,
right, to how to journey, how to read a stone for someone. And one other thing that I'm not sure
if I can remember, but the journey was the main thing. Yeah, for me too, with Castaneda. And
you know, I had the experience, right, you're supposed to like find a, in your memory, you find
a cave or a hole in a tree or a nest in the ground or a whirlpool or maybe a waterfall where the
water's folding into itself. And you go there to start in your mind. And then the drumming's going
like pum, pum, pum, pum, pum, like this, right. And then you go down a tunnel until you come out
in some landscape. And then you look for an animal that's not a predator. And you, you know, have
a exchange with the animal. And so I had this. And in fact, the first animal led me to a second tunnel.
And the tunnel led me to a different landscape. And there was a different animal down there,
and they were both then there with me. But I couldn't really tell that it wasn't just my imagination
until many years later when I became well aware that it was not my imagination.
So you meet Molly Doma and you're a secretary. Yeah. Any initiations happen? What, what tell us
about? I got to witness other people's initiations. You know, I was like an assistant. So I got this,
you know, even though he was a public speaker, his daily work was going to visit people and helping
them individually. A lot of them are just trying to get out of jail or court cases. But there was a
lot of different issues that he, that he would do. Basically, like not just a healer, but also
like a troubleshooter. Yeah, yeah, something like this. Yeah. And he did the best he could.
Some of the things were ridiculous, like to me, but I was brand new on all of it. But sometimes
it's just like, you know, come on, guys, this isn't real. This is not happening. No, she's not
possessed but the demon, you know, no, she's just acting. She's rich. You know, that's how it felt.
But it seemed like whenever he tried to do something, he did it in such a way to
incorporate, to at least have that have a space, because that's their, that's their imagination.
And the way he described it, which is the most beautiful thing I've heard ever publicly, is that
the way into the shamanic path, that spiritual path is through the imagination. Yeah, that's,
that's the opening door. That's the portal. So even if you're imagining a tree, a hole in the
tree or a cave or anything like that, it's starting with the imagination, that image,
that imagery becomes like a vector for us. Yes, yes.
What was one of the more surprising things you saw him do?
You want to hear the first surprise? Yes, please.
Okay, it was probably not fair, but he passed away. So he won't say anything. At least not right now.
Okay, I think it was my second day of working as a secretary. And, you know, he had me entering
all the calls. He had me doing all the, responding all the emails. He said, just put my name
Aledoma at the end or Patrice or whatever. Sure. You know, attendance, him responding to these people.
I understood it, but it was wrong, you know, but he had three, like three or four hundred
emails a day, you know, and he didn't know how to handle it. He didn't know what to do with it.
And maybe he was testing me to see what I would do. So, you know, I did it for that reason.
I forgot what I was going to say. Something surprising that you saw. Oh, yeah. So one of the
messages, the phone messages was his life. So, and she's like saying, I know you're with that woman.
You know, and then she started speaking in her language, right? And it's like, oh my god,
what is that? I didn't know what that was. You know, and then so when I went to one of our
ceremonies and there was a lot of women there, I started understanding what was happening because,
you know, they're just really attracted to him, you know, like dozens of power and the,
you know, the fame and everything. Yeah. And he had, he had a lot of character. Yeah. Charming,
charismatic, I'm sure. Very charismatic. Yeah. So he, yeah, but I couldn't understand it. But
his wife was so beautiful. It's like, I don't get it. You know, she's, she was absolutely beautiful.
And she was doing the same work he was doing. Like, oh, wow. You know, she even had her own books
and everything, you know, her name again, Sobomphu, S-O-B-O-N-F-U. Sobomphu. Yeah.
Okay. So you were surprised to see that basically he kind of had a harem. Yeah. Essentially, right?
Yep. Okay. And then once, once people discovered me as a secretary and that, you know, he was
paying for my trips to Africa and stuff like that, they started laughing on to me, you know.
But I didn't know how to handle it as a Jola's witness, you know, that recently just left the
church. Sure. Please continue. Yeah. I didn't know, I didn't know how to accept it. So, you know,
I would kind of flirt a little bit or I'd get semi-involved without no kissing or touching or
anything. I think one girl I did kiss, but I didn't have any of it well. Yeah. But it was
interesting. You were still quite young in many ways. Mentally especially. Yeah. Yeah. Almost
a virgin in some ways. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. At what age now? Oh, geez. Okay. So this would have been
1989. What does that mean? Almost 40. Does that sound right? Yeah. I think so. Yeah. That sounds
right. Yeah. Almost 40. Wow. And still had pretty limited experience. Really limited. I mean,
did you have some children yet? Yeah, I did. I had at least three. Yeah. Okay. Different experiences,
different women. One was because of the church and the one of them was to get out of the church
and one of the third one was to get back in. Everything was around that Joe was with us.
But I didn't have any experience with dating. Like none, you know,
like even these women I married, we never actually dated. That was a single moment of dating.
Yeah, I don't. Honestly, I have very little experience of dating. I don't even,
I know what the idea is, but I've always just met a girl that I love pretty much immediately.
Yeah. And then we're just together. Yeah. It's just dating. Yeah. That's what happened. It wasn't
like, you know, oh, try a few different flavors or anything like that. Yeah. It was just like, oh,
no, you. Yeah. Yeah, we're together. So surprising things that you saw anything in terms of power
that you saw at Mully Dunlop. Did you see him do anything that you really were like,
wow, what was that? Outside of his speech note. No, there, there were some things that happened
that were involving other elders, not him alone. Yeah. Understood. So circle kind of. Oh, yeah.
Yeah. A very deep circle. Yeah. When he got his initiation into eldership, which was the second
time I went back to Africa. When he got initiation into eldership, he was, there was at least
400 baby shamans there. Really? To acknowledge his eldership. Yeah. At least 400 maybe. Oh my
Lord. Yeah. That's unimaginable. Yeah. 400. Yeah. You know, there can't be anything like that in
South America. I don't think so. No. Not at this level. Yeah. It's because the,
well, it's complicated. The population hasn't been decimated in the same way that it has been
decimated, at least not in certain areas, in certain areas, it has not been decimated. Yeah.
And especially the religious practices. Okay. Burkina Faso has the highest rate of
traditional indigenous religious practice of any place in the world. Wow. Yeah. And this is
where Molly Denman is supposedly from. Yes. And it's trustworthy that he's from there. Oh, yeah.
Okay. So that part's true. Yeah. Even as recently as yesterday, I'm still in contact with his family
almost every day. Wow. Yeah. So no evidence of actual power that you saw and no initiations
for you with Molly Denman. I had initiations with him. I did. Okay. As far as power, when you say
power, like, I mean, there are experiences and things like that, but not like, well, that seemed
like impossible. That didn't happen. It was only my internal experiences that I went through with him.
There was a point where we were supposed to see Contombe and he, he had advertised it that way.
And that's why all of these people came, Americans, you know, to see the little dwarf
people that live underground with long penises that are that wrap around the next
and they're hairy and got long 20 years. We were supposed to see you that that was in the cave.
Right. So all of these people, there was at least 30 Americans between 20 and 30 Americans.
And we drove them out to the middle of nowhere out to this cave. And
it wasn't real. It wasn't real. It was really dark in there. And I could hear the little voice
and all of that stuff. But I could also see at that time, my vision was extremely good.
You know, I could see that it was a little boy. Not only was it a little boy
in that cave pretending, but he was a twin and I just saw him outside. I said, it's, you know,
you know, they're the same, you know, it's a twin. And I got it verified that the boy that I was
pointing to was a twin. You know, and at that point, I think Molly Dome, I didn't like me anymore.
Yeah. But I mean, he should have let me in on it at least. Yeah. Why surprise me?
I'm there to learn. If you wanted me to shut up, I would have shut up.
In your initiation experience, the first one, speak of it, anything you wish to share.
So my first ones were with Molly Dome and Somme. And these are experiences that I would
recommend for anyone. They were wonderful. They're not his, they're tradition and they're great.
So how would someone seek such an experience today?
They'd have to see a shaman that knows the system and that's going to be hard. The system is.
So earth, water, fire, nature, mineral and what the processes are to be. Basically,
you're being baptized into those elements. So if I were to draw, it doesn't have to be any
particular to anything. It's just to the element itself. So if you have a grandmother or grandfather
in your life that you feel relates to one of those elements or the birthday and you can
probably figure it out that way, right? You can use them for that element. It doesn't have to be
some stranger from someone, other person's family. They won't tell you that, you know.
In Africa, they don't talk like that because their roots are with their ancestors. So they
know it works. They don't recommend you go somewhere else. It works for them.
Where I separated, when I got malaria, I saw what worked for them. Their herbs worked for them
when they get malaria. They don't work for me. They didn't work for me at all. The herbs work
for them, you know what I mean? They could heal themselves in two or three days. My wife got
malaria more than once. No problem. I had to be shipped out of Africa, put on a plane and delivered
back to the United States because nothing worked for me. There may have been some,
are you certain that that's because it doesn't work for you or could there have been other
variables involved with you? No. We all got malaria at the same time. It was the worst strain of
malaria. It was different kinds. This was a killer strain. I lost, I can show you pictures of 150
pounds. I could reach in and feel my spine through my stomach. I could reach in and grab it. I was
really skinny. They shipped me back here. I had to stay at a doctor for a 24-hour watch. Within
one night, within an hour, I shrunk even more down to my wrist. I could hold it like that with
these two fingers and go like this. It was just shrunk. They didn't know what it was. They kept
trying to figure out what it was. They weren't equipped for malaria here, really. They figured
it out. At that point, they could tell it was a very serious strain and they were able to cure it.
Talk about your experience during the first initiation.
Yeah. My first initiation was here. Before we went to Africa, it was the fire one, I believe.
And so, it was with other shamans, with Walidoma.
And what do they call themselves? Shamans. Really? In English, this word? Shamans?
Yeah. Okay. So, I'm talking about American shamans, not African shamans.
Over there, they have different names. Yes. And over there, what are some of the names?
Babalawal in Nigeria. Bacore in some places.
Most of the time, when they translated it to me, it just meant doctor.
And in Burkina Faso, is there a name? I can't remember what it is. Is it Tagara?
The Tagara have? Yeah, the Tagara. There's 300 different languages in Burkina.
Oh, really? Yeah. Just in Burkina. Wow.
And people say they call them dialects, but the languages are so different. How dare they?
Incredibly different. Yeah. Okay. So, back to your first initiation. There were other shamans?
Yeah. So, there were American shamans that were here and people that were very experienced in the stuff.
This stuff being initiated, basically baptized into the elements. You're baptized into them.
So, the fire... Is there no name for this? Not that I know of. Okay. Yeah.
No problem. So, yeah, it was horrifying for me, the first one, because it was fire.
It had large bonfires. It had to be a little bit beyond shoulder width. One fire here,
one fire there, one in front of you. You had to walk through and you had to sit and pray until the
skin started smoking or bubbling or something like that, and then you were like, oh, you were
allowed to leave. That was really hard for me, because I had really... You saw in the book,
my hair was kind of long. Yeah. I was really worried about my hair. So, it was hard to concentrate,
but the hotter it got, the more I was determined to focus. But I didn't like that.
But it was my first time being tested and baptized by fire.
There's definitely... I could see it being a necessity.
And then, of course, the other elements later.
Yeah. But not in the order that I would have thought. They weren't for whatever reason.
So, after that, we did the nature one, where you sit in front of a tree until you can see it as a
living being. And we did that one. That one didn't work that well for me. But just...
Molly Domey himself had trouble with this. Yeah. Yeah. Was it not so? Yes. Yes. Yes, he did.
He faked it first, right? Yeah. He tried to fake it. Yeah. He said, no, no. He'll go back.
The elder said, that's not what's there. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. That's true. I never saw anything,
but I felt like I could feel it. I felt like I understood that the tree was a living creature
way more than anything I thought it was. So, I leaned something from it, but I didn't lean...
Didn't have the full experience. Didn't have the full experience. Yeah.
And had you, at this point in time, ever experimented with psychedelic drugs?
Up until that time? By that point, yeah. Up until that time, had you?
I tried, what do you call it, that little pill? Nescaline? No. Little pill. What do you call that?
That love pill? Ecstasy? Ecstasy. Oh, really? Yeah. I tried that once, maybe twice. I'm not sure
I'd classify that as a psychedelic necessarily, but it's like some dude.
Acid? I tried a couple times, hated it. I became a really violent person with acid.
Yeah. I was really violent, out of this world. So, I never touched it again.
Ah. Yeah. I can't touch that stuff. Yeah. So, yeah, I tried those things, not mushrooms.
Yeah. I tried them later, but I still met that familiar with mushrooms. Don't really understand them.
I know there was Terence McKenna in different places, in different other, I call them shamans,
you know. That really promote that, and it's a good way to open those doors, but I never got it.
I think it's very dangerous actually. I think this is just me, my personal take, my bias,
or whatever, right? But I think we should have non-ordinary experience organically
before we do something that's like flipping a switch, that forces you to have a non-ordinary
experience. Yeah. And that doesn't seem wise to me. Also, there's the problem of if you don't,
if you can't have organic non-ordinary experience, which actually I think you and I are having
a little bit of even today right now. Yeah. Definitely. It's, you know, it's subtle,
but I can feel it. Yeah. At my heart. Me too. Yeah, I can feel it. Yeah. In bringing up these
matters, in a sense, without being religious about it, the power comes because we're speaking about
the power and the origin beings and nature. And like the Bible says, wherever two or more
gather, that's where I will be with you. So yeah, I'm just, I'm very concerned because
if that's your first experience of a non-ordinary situation and you're completely unprepared for
it and you have no power of your own, then you'll associate non-ordinary experience with the drug
and you'll think, oh, the key to non-ordinary experience with drug, which does not seem good
to me. That's not good. An advanced person could maybe be safe. Yeah. Right. And it would help them
in some way. But a naive person is going to probably become very confused. Become a drug addict.
Yeah. For that. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Because the non-ordinary experiences are very compelling.
Yeah. But one of the other problems with the psychedelic experiences is that you have
something similar to non-ordinary insight. Yes. But you can't bring it back across.
It's worse than having had a dream. Yeah. Right. The dream you can at least tell the plot.
Yeah. The psychedelic experience, you have these insights, but they don't translate to when you're
back in normal consciousness again. Yeah. I mean, if you write them down,
right? And mostly just from most people, there are exceptions. It just looks like gobbledygook.
Yeah. You know? It's true. So there's something missing there because real non-ordinary experience
usually brings with it insight, it seems to me. Yeah. And the insight stays with you even after
the experience. That's the woke part. That's what woke me. That was the initial meaning of woke.
Right there. Yeah. The old meaning before it was compromised.
Politicized. Yeah. Yes. Before it was captured. Yep. But then after that nature experience,
it was still earth. It was still mineral. And the last one we did was water. It was water.
The earth one was horrible. Did it bury you? Yeah. Talk about it. Yeah. Tell us what happened.
So yeah, we were buried. That was here before we left for Africa. We did that here. Thank God.
I mean, they dig maybe not six feet, but pretty close, right? You're way down and you feel the
full weight of that dirt on you when you're buried, right? And you have straws and things
in your nose and in your mouth. And so maybe we're probably like four feet down and there's
probably like a couple feet of dirt on top of us, right? Something like that.
But it's hard because you can feel the acts and you're naked. And you can feel the bugs and insects
and things crawling all around you. And every time you move to scratch yourself, you can't move again.
That's it. You know, you move. You can't move again because the dirt settles in and feels that
gap. So, you know, you freeze. Yeah. I mean, this is like death. It's death. And you hear the people
crying and wailing over you, right? As if you've died? As if you've died. It's a full funeral.
Oh my goodness. A funeral while you're alive. Yeah. Wow. And it's all night. I mean, not the entire
night. I think it was maybe four in the morning when they dug us up. Wow. So like 10 hours? No,
no, no. We probably started about 10 or 11. Okay. It's still six hours underground.
And was there a ceremony before they bury you?
No. Really? Yeah. I mean, there is kind of as they're preparing it. But it's not before,
it's like part of it, right? So they're singing, you know, and they're preparing and digging
everything. All the work you do in Africa has some kind of song to go with it. So,
you know, it's hard to tell sometimes where the ceremonies begin in it.
What you made it through? Yeah. I mean, we all made it through. It was totally safe.
They're not going to let you die. Yeah. But I mean, psychically, you survived. Oh, I expanded
after that. That was one of my biggest openings right there. Yeah. That was my favorite. Hated it,
though. Yeah. But it was my favorite. And when you say expanded, talk about what you mean.
Yeah. I felt like I could instantly, now this is just me talking, but I felt like I could
instantly understand anything that was told to me or anything I read or anything I haven't read yet.
I felt like I already got it. I felt like the earth gave me everything I needed to know.
Instantly. I don't know if it's a song. I don't know if there's a way, you know,
maybe the earth is filled with so many ancestors or maybe I don't know how that happened. But
it doesn't really require an explanation, does it? It doesn't really require an explanation.
So the gift of immediate understanding seemed to come to you. Yeah. And it was weird because
it was like, okay, I'm a little clumsy, right? And I put something down and I want to fall. But it
was after that ceremony, I could grab it before I hit the ground. My awareness was intact. More
than intact. Yeah, your awareness was dramatically enhanced. I relate. So the nature was with the
tree? Yeah. What was the mineral? That was one of the worst ones. I haven't described any of them
very well. Well, this one was hard because that was in Africa. And you know, in the Sahara desert,
everything's hot. Everything touches hot. Stones are really hot. And you lie on the hot sand and
they pile stones on you. And you're covered in stones and you sit there for maybe a couple hours.
Granted, the ones underneath, the ones closest to you cool off, which kind of helped,
but it was horrible. It was absolutely horrible. And again, singing and full ceremony.
And the last one was weird because the last one was the water one. And that was like church.
And that part really messed me up because I felt like I was getting baptized again.
It was just a baptism. But the way he was explaining and the way the
elders would explain it is that this is tradition. It was tradition. It's like, well,
how far back did it go? Was it Christian involved? Did you add from the...
They're saying it's not. It's tradition. It predates Christianity. They even claim,
Malidoma claims that the baptism in Christianity was originated from these,
the water baptism in Africa. Yeah, that makes more sense.
And that's why John the Baptist used that system.
He looks pretty much like a shaman, right? He lives in the forest.
He lives in the forest, eight bees and honey. As far as we know, he didn't eat anything else.
Yeah. And by the way... Locust and honey. Yeah, okay. Locust and honey. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, the nectar of the bees, that's...
You gotta wonder about the power in a beehive because it's touching the generative organs.
And one thing not too many people know is that lots of regular plants that don't flower produce
nectar, they produce it at the joints. And the bees will drink that nectar too. So the hummingbirds,
right? Yeah. So you're talking like hundreds of thousands of plants each day, this nectar coming
to one place, right? The hive and then being concentrated in the honey. Yeah. And it's...
You can see that there's a principle there. You follow? Oh, yeah.
There's a principle that's embodied in those bees. And so the bees themselves have great power,
right? But the principle is also very powerful. That's why for me, whenever I think of Oshun,
I see her as a middle-aged woman, really beautiful, strong-looking woman,
just like powerful, but surrounded by bees. Oh, yes. Yes. Surrounded by constant bees.
And who is Oshun? Well, she comes from Nigeria. So it has nothing to do with Burkina Faso.
They have their own. And I think they call her Mane Wata or something like that over there.
Even that's Americanized. But the Oshun in Nigeria, because my family's evil Nigeria,
in our origin. But the Oshun, she's like the goddess of love, rivers, not oceans. That's the
different that's Yemaga. But Oshun is a goddess of love and rivers and sex, relationships in general,
connected connectivity, which has a lot to do with the bees and the honey.
Yeah, stuff like that. Milk.
So what happened with the water?
Yeah, so not much as far as experiences, because it was just like a dip in the water,
and we come back out. But what happened to me as a Joe's witness is like,
you know, I'm no longer a Joe's witness. Mentally, I was able to let go. These
religions are just copying old traditions. And they know they work, so they use them.
Yes, they've, what is it when the modern culture captures something as a word for this?
And I've been looking for it the whole time.
Oh, yeah, I agree with you.
Appropriation?
Yes, they're appropriating. Thank you so much. Brilliant. Yes, that's it. It's a form of appropriation.
And not all appropriation is bad. We appropriate English from our parents, right?
And there's all kinds of, so that there is a, there's a form that we, in politically correct
conversation, presume is, you know, ethically flawed, but there's all, I mean, everything is
appropriation in a way. In the Blackfoot culture, probably this is called contagion,
and it's not just negative, right? Transfer of power is contagion.
The two primary principles in Blackfoot magic are contagion.
In Blackfoot spiritual traditions, I have to, I have to sort of edit myself here.
And I'm not an expert on these things, but from what I've learned from Ryan, right?
It's contagion and similitude, right? Similarity and contagion.
So you realized after the water, you're no longer Jehovah's Witness.
Yeah. And mentally, I was able to completely let go. Before then, my sister,
everybody was in my brain, you know, yelling at me, and I was able to completely let go after
the water baptism. Okay, so let's, yeah, let's, that's, that's really important. So kind of what
you're saying is that the admonitory aspects of Christianity coupled with the admonitions that
you would receive from your family members, particularly your mother and perhaps your sister,
were constantly at play in your mind. Is that true? Yeah, I couldn't even date. I couldn't do
anything. Oh, yeah. Because you can't tell if you're doing something that will cost you your
family. Yeah, right. Even whether or not it's good or bad, right? And then on the other side,
there's like this displeasing God and blah, blah, blah. But then there's also just the social
thing of I will be ejected from social relationships, the terrifying threat,
it is terrifying threat to anyone, especially to a child or a teenager or something like this.
Unfortunately, the religions have been weaponized over time, right? So that
they capture the specific vulnerabilities of our psyches, and just double down on those things,
eternal damnation, eviction from a relation, the loss of the soul, all these things.
One of the soulless things that Joel is where this is actually do is they almost force you
as a teenager or a preteen even, like myself, I was 13, I think, or 14, when I got baptized.
Because once you're baptized, you're committed. If I was never baptized, they could never take
my family away. They couldn't threaten me with that. But they told me, oh, Armageddon's coming
next year, 1975, you've got to get baptized, or else you've got to be dead. Wow. And so I got
baptized. Yeah, that's the other feature is the, what is it, eschatology, right? The world, the
apocalypse vision. That's 100% Jehovah's Witness. Yeah. I mean, it seems Christian too, because
like revelation seems pretty eschatological, I think is the right word. But yeah, the world
ending and the threat of that. And of course, the world is always ending. Yeah. But there are also
times when the world is really ending too, throughout history. Oh, yeah. It's not like
there's one apocalypse. Yeah. There's like this sort of heartbeach of apocalypse. And human and
natural and so on. Yeah. All right, let's take a little break here, and then we'll come back
and talk more about what happens in Africa. Okay.
