All right, so I just want to clarify a few things before you continue. We're going to go to the bookmark of the woman in San Francisco.
Right. Yeah. Again.
Matt Walters. Yeah.
Yeah, but we're still talking a little bit about the beaver bundle and.
I want to just hear from you.
What is the meaning of a transfer? We've said a little bit about what the beaver bundle is. Explain if you will a little bit about transfer.
Yeah, well, you know, transfer is is being given a way of doing something.
If it's a major transfer, a lot of times it's being given a new way of life.
When when it's a beaver bundle transfer, that's what it is. Hey, it's being given a whole new way of life and a new role. It's a it's a
What do you call it?
It can be a right of passage. It can be as simple as somebody teaching you how to make a sandwich.
It could be as complicated as, you know, someone training you in something extremely specialized that maybe two or three people on the face of the earth know about, you know.
So, all that stuff can be transfer, you know, when it when it comes to the Blackfoot way of life and stuff.
You really need to be exposed to those bundles in order to get the core philosophies.
You don't have to take care of a bundle necessarily.
Just, you know, be in the community and exposed to them and such to get some of those core philosophies and if you from, you know, if you don't do that you can be Blackfoot and not be Blackfoot almost.
You know, you can you can you can you can be here and grow up here and well not really everybody here is exposed to the bundles we all we all got that core core shit but if you if you never if you never lived here and been exposed to that then
you know it's it's it's you know you don't got the culture you don't got it right.
It's just it's it's in it's in those bundles.
It's not a religious thing so much.
It's cultural but it has these kind of religious underpins, you know, because you can connect all of these things to these bundles, these bundles have these origins that are, you know, very like legendary origins.
Lots of mythological things.
You know, animals and people sitting down and making treaties and shit, you know, yes. Yeah.
I want to get back to Harvard but absolutely.
I don't want to I don't want to leave I don't want to leave questions unanswered. Do you have a couple things and feel free to correct me.
You know, it's an outsider.
Right.
But the bundle seems to me to be something that we don't really have in the West, an idea of.
It's like a library of histories and relationships and traditions that is itself alive.
Yeah, it's a it's a living thing.
This is what I want to be really clear about.
Yeah, the bundles of living being and when you're taking care of it that's a living being that you're taking care of.
Yes.
And you have to nurture it.
And you have to tend to like, you know,
everything like all the kind of crazy shit that you would with any human being living being.
It is not we don't have a category for this in English.
There's no category for this only the category of living being.
But never we would think in English that something that we would be likely to view as an object would be a living being.
Yeah, and there's like, we're gonna get into some of that too.
When we talk about Harvard.
Okay.
I just wanted to just take a moment and clarify a few of those unusual things because without understanding this, you're not going to really have any hope of even conceptualizing what a bundle is.
No, well, you know, like a lot of people have asked me to try to explain concisely what a what the beaver bundle or any bundle is.
It's really difficult with a beaver bundle.
The most concise explanation that I have is that it is the living embodiment of a treaty between the humans and the animals.
It is tangibly a role of mostly animal skins and other artifacts that have come into that bundle paint, tobacco, tobacco seeds, stick calendars.
There's a with the beaver bundle.
There's a lot of things in wrapped in it, but it's mostly animal skins.
And the and the ceremony is a reenactment of the treaty.
And, but, you know, interestingly, the dances follow a progression like an annual phenological progression of animal mating.
And so that the dances are mostly animal dances.
Well, they're all animal dances, but they follow a sequence through the season that you're that you're speaking toward whenever you're in blackfish ceremony you're always speaking toward whatever's happening and going to happen in the like very near future.
And that's, you know, that's just a renewal of the treaty every time that goes on.
So the beaver bundle does this twice a year at the end of summer and at the end of winter.
There's just the two seasons really formally recognized and there's words for that transition.
Between them like fall and spring and fall, but, but, but they're not really seasons per se, you know, their transition points between summer and winter.
The between time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, it's, it's just the transition.
There's not even, there's not even a between time.
There's not a gap.
There's summer and then winter boom, boom.
And it feels like that here too.
Like, when he thought story comes, you know, the cold arrives.
That's what it's literally called.
And it does boom, and it's here.
You were in summer last week.
You were wearing shorts and t-shirt.
And now you got snow and it's sub zero.
You know, and then
associated with each of the beings or elements in the beaver bundle.
There are songs.
Yeah.
Well, that's the thing.
Like each of the animals.
Well, the beaver bundle is the thing.
Nobody knows how many songs are in the beaver bundle.
Hundreds and hundreds have come and gone.
And there is a core group of songs from the,
from the original treaty and some of the major things that have
happened that all of the beaver bundles have kind of like.
Like, because there's more than one beaver bundle at this point.
Right.
There was, there was originally the one and an origin story to that.
And then other people had experiences where they were told to create
bundles and such, but they had to do it through the original.
Right.
So it's all got the original link to it.
Right.
It's all got something tangibly, like physically from the original.
I want to imagine the situation where, for example, you have a fire.
Yeah.
And the fire has been started from a coal from a previous fire.
Yeah.
And it goes all the way back to the first fire.
Yeah.
And so this fire right in front of you has the first fire in it.
Yep.
By analogy.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Precisely.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's good.
Yeah, because things,
things wear out in the bundles, like physical things.
Of course.
You have to replace them.
You're talking 10,000 years plus maybe, you know?
Yeah.
You have to replace things when they wear out.
But it's like the fire, like you say, hey, it's the same fire.
You know, you got to have to, you have to feed more wood in that fucking fire.
Right.
Yes.
Yeah.
So, so yeah, the beaver bundle, the animals all gave their robes,
which is their, which is a symbol of protection, right?
Their robes, what they, what they use to protect, camouflage themselves,
all that stuff.
Think about that.
You know, that's what they, they gave that.
And then they sang a song or many songs.
And in each of those songs were other things like how they get their medicines,
how they hunt their foods, how they make their homes,
how they live with their spouses, how they raise their children,
like all of these kinds of things.
When, when human beings, like in this story of the, of the beaver bundle origin,
the animals looked at the human beings as the most recent arrival basically,
like a very recent arrival and ill equipped, ill adapted.
We can't run fast.
We can't swim very well.
We can, can't climb trees very well.
We can't fly at all.
You know, we're weak, we're soft, we're slow.
We don't have a rope.
We don't have a rope.
We literally have no rope.
They could have called us like no rope.
Okay, but, all right.
In the origin story of the beaver bundle,
there's something about not having a rope.
Because there's a point where Nob ski,
who's the tiger salamander,
steps up to offer his contribution to the bundle.
And right away, the other animals start mocking him
because he doesn't have a rope to give.
He's not given anything physical into the bundle.
There's no rope.
You don't got no fur, no feathers, no nothing.
And so the animals were mocking him.
They're telling me he's just naked.
He doesn't have anything.
Why is he even here?
They don't understand it.
You know, and he got mad.
And he's saying this song, which I know.
And then he, and then he left the lodge.
His wife was still there and she hung out.
I don't know why she didn't leave, but that's her anyway.
He left.
And the song that he's saying brought on a deluge rainstorm.
So heavy that the lake that they were camped next to the waters
were rising and threatening to flood out the ceremony for the
rest of the night, the whole, like, you know, the whole tree.
Right.
And so the animals begged the salamander's wife to bring him
back and stop the rain.
And she did.
And then, and then with another song, which I know.
And those were his contributions to the bundle, those songs.
And then right after him, ironically.
The frog that the the chorus from stood up to contribute to the
bundle.
And the Nam ski, the tiger salamander who just been mocked
to the frog, the fuck are you doing here?
You don't got any, anything to give to this bundle.
You don't even, you're just naked.
You don't, you don't got anything to offer.
And he, and he pushed him, he pushed him on his chest and the
frog fell down on his back.
And he fell down and he had his hands up like this by his head
with four fingers on one side and three on the other.
And he, he told the animals.
Yeah.
He told them, this gets seven.
I'm giving seven winter moons to the humans during which all of
your hides, all of your, all of your beautiful robes are going
to be so thick, so lovely, the humans are going to be hunting
you and wanting to kill you.
Kind of a curse.
Yep.
Because let me be clear about what he's saying.
He's saying.
It was a good turn.
All of you people who have robes, your robes are going to be so
thick and warm that the humans will hunt you for those robes.
Yep.
So what he's giving to the humans is the capacity to wear the
robes of the other animals in a way.
Yeah.
Well, he's, he's giving them a very long winter.
Oh, yeah.
But he's given everybody a long winter.
I see.
And the frog is the one that hops between the seasons.
You know, when it comes to the moons, there's a, there's a
there's a Blackfoot moon called Metsi, Kapisaki, some, the
frog moon.
And that's the one that it's either a winter or summer moon
depending on whether it's a leap year and it will leap into
the summer if it's a, if it's a leap year, the leap year, the
leap, the extra moon, the 13 moon always comes in the winter.
As far as I've come to know.
Between two specific other moons.
What's that?
Between two specific other moons.
Yes.
Well, the frog is always where, where he is.
He's between.
Yeah.
It's between Saaki, some, the duck moon.
Mm hmm.
And Apiskitsa, the flower moon.
Ah.
Um, that's where the frog will be.
That's when the frogs mate.
A lot of the, you know, all of the stuff around the beaver bundle
has to do with the mating time.
A lot of it.
Yeah.
That's it.
That's the recreation.
Yeah.
Okay.
I have a question.
Yep.
What did the humans give?
The humans gave a scalp.
You want to hear the human story?
Yes, please.
All right.
Because all of the animals,
they're giving a whole library to the humans.
Yeah.
Making a treaty with them.
And what do the humans contribute?
And what is the agreement?
Mm hmm.
This is what I want.
All right.
Okay.
We'll get back to match, but this stuff's important.
Yep.
There are.
Two different.
Human contributions into the beaver bundle.
Both of them are scalps.
One of them comes from.
The.
Scabby round robes story.
But the scalp is not really the important thing that comes from
that story.
So I'm not going to tell that story,
even though that's one of the scalps that you'll find in the beaver
bundle.
And some other stuff from scabby round robes as well.
This is, this is another whole, like.
Another, a big story that happened.
That brought a whole bunch of news things into the beaver bundle.
There's several in, you know, you can imagine thousands of years of
history.
How many times your main corpus has to change.
And have, you know, resolution.
There are like,
over those thousand years where there's something very core that is
transferred.
Yeah.
Or included.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So.
Scabby round robe is one of these stories that some of that stuff
comes from.
So some beaver bundles have scalps in them associated with scabby
round robe.
There's a, there's a other scalp in there.
In some of the bundles.
And, and Mahoney in my bundle has this scalp.
And it comes from a story about.
So pistol book.
Owl child.
Who is a big gunny.
One of the Blackfoot tribes is be is called be gunny.
That was his tribe.
He had this dream.
This is way, way back.
You know,
I don't, I don't even want to try to imagine what,
how many years ago or whatever.
But he had a dream.
That.
Him and his.
His, you know, close brothers and cousins and stuff.
Went and really.
Super successfully raided.
Their southern neighbor.
The petiques in that ones.
The snake people.
The show.
And.
So.
He convinced his brothers and cousins, let's do this.
Let's go down there.
I know it's going to be like, we're going to,
we're going to come home so rich.
We're going to steal all their, all their stuff.
We're going to get all these, you know,
Valor's and stuff. Let's go do this.
So they all start following him.
They pack up and they're going on a, on a,
on a multi day.
Mission to go down there and try to actualize the stream.
But.
Every time they sleep and they travel mostly at night.
Hey.
When they're going on these raids, they travel at night.
And they sleep in the day in the, in the, like.
Usually in the, in the thickets.
You know, find some coolly with.
Like really close.
Choke cherries are down by the river.
With willow close willow and stuff.
And you, and you just sleep during the day and keep cover.
And then travel by night.
And then you're going to, you know,
make your way to the enemy.
And then.
Or to, I don't know, it's not even enemy in black foot.
It's more like opponent.
Cause all like the language is all in gaming.
And there was a system.
There was a, there was a system, a point system.
Which I don't, I don't have all in my head.
But killing people was low on the point system.
Yeah.
And the point system is taking away, you know,
vital resources.
You know, take away,
is what they call a coup in black foot,
but that's literally acquiring a gun.
Yeah.
Taking their, taking their, their,
what, you know, whatever that is,
whether it was a bow before and whatever,
taking their weapon, you know,
taking their stuff that they use to.
To retaliate against you and to hunt. Like it's all,
like back then it's all very utilitarian too.
You know, because.
The more.
You know, the more resources he got.
The bigger guy you were, like,
especially once the horses came in, hey,
horses really changed everything.
I think this story is like way pre-horse though.
It's certainly pre-gun by a long shot.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So anyway,
these guys are going down south to,
to raid their enemy,
to raid their opponent,
the snake people.
And every time they sleep,
the brothers, the cousins and stuff,
they start having their own dreams.
And their dreams
aren't as nice.
They're fearful dreams.
They see themselves dying.
They see bad things happen, you know,
or they see, you know, they're scared
when they wake up from their dreams and.
So pretty soon, like, you know,
a couple of days in, people start
turning back.
They're not, they're not going to participate, you know,
and his closest cousins and brothers stick with him further.
But eventually them too, they're just,
they're all having dreams that are ominous and bad, you know.
And they, they're like, hey, man,
like we want to trust your dream and everything,
but like we got trust ours too.
And so,
so they back off.
And he's like, all right, go ahead.
You know, my, you know,
my relatives are not worth anything.
Do you have some food? Go.
I have a, I have a dog here that's.
I'm pet sitting. Ah, yes.
Who's been here now 24 hours and not eating.
Yeah.
You can't tell whether where the owner is,
if he gets to go home, if he's coming, why is this happening?
Great stress down.
There we go.
You're going to eat, aren't you? There you go, Jimmy.
Oh.
Um.
Oh, where are we?
His cousins have turned back.
Oh yeah.
Now he's on his own.
Yeah.
He's on his own.
And then a storm approaches.
He's decided in his mind, he's going to go.
Down to the opponent.
And he's just going to go right nuts on them.
And do, you know, like.
He's probably going to die. It's a suicide mission.
He's going to let them take his life because he's, he's so like him.
You know, humiliated and upset with his.
Relatives for not continuing with him.
Anyway, the storm is coming.
And he finds a crab.
In some rock.
In the coolies to climb into.
And you can go deep into this crab to get out of the weather.
But it gets.
You know, dark, dark.
In there.
Pitch, pitch black, dark.
In the cave.
And.
In that cave, he's kind of like, you know, the storm is raging and
shit outside and he's just kind of like hanging out in the cave.
But then he bumps into something.
And he starts feeling it.
And then he realizes.
This, this is another fucking guy in here.
Like standing right here, you know.
And his heart's racing.
He doesn't know who the heck this is.
Could be a, could be an enemy, anything.
He starts like frantically kind of feeling this guy.
He's already touched him and felt him up a little bit to like,
before he came to the realization that's a fucking person, you know.
So he starts touching him a little bit more to try to figure out.
Does he have anything on him that I can tell what, you know,
what kind of person this is.
Something like symbols and shit, you know,
and he can't find nothing.
In the dark.
And so ultimately he takes a risk.
And he goes like this.
And he rubs his fist on the guy's cheek.
Like this.
This is the sign for be gunny.
Which is his tribe.
He was telling him who he was, which is a huge risk.
And the other guy puts his finger on owl child's chest.
And does the zigzag.
Cross his chest.
And he's telling him he's bit sick.
The snake person.
That's their opponent.
And so again, like.
Owl child's heart starts racing.
Because he thinks this is it. Like any second he's getting killed.
Or kill, kill or get killed, you know.
But he doesn't, he doesn't, he doesn't move on the guy.
And.
Then they, they, they keep trying to like use.
Sign language on each other's bodies.
To try to start communicating things.
And when the storm lets up, they go outside.
And they go full into playing sign language.
Which was the lingua franca of the time, you know, and.
They realized that they actually have super similar stories.
This guy was coming up north to raid them.
With his brothers and all that shit and his guys turned back and chickened out and all that.
They're mirroring.
Yeah, they're very, they're very much mirroring.
And there, there isn't really any big difference between them, so to speak.
You know, the symbols.
You know, that couldn't even show up in the cave.
What the fuck do those really mean, you know, why are we.
Hanging on to those we're not really very different.
They start like.
They start a real conversation, maybe we should.
Maybe we shouldn't be opponents.
So they divide they put together a scheme.
Each one is going to cut.
A little piece of scalp.
A braid like.
Off the other guy.
And take it home.
And tell the story about the how they, you know.
Went, you know, even though everybody abandoned, they went there and they fought the enemy and all that shit and.
And.
And then they were going to, they knew that.
People would question.
Because they're each missing a breed too.
Right.
So they devised a plan to bring their people back to meet at the certain spot under the auspices that they were going to prove.
They're going to show them the dead body, the enemy.
You know.
And so they each went and actualized this.
And brought their people back and visit.
There's a whole long story about the kind of interaction that happened there.
But suffice to say they ended up the two guys, our child and the.
And the, and the snake man.
They traded lives.
They traded lodges, they traded wives, they traded everything.
We just like they just entered into each other's tribe and took on that person's identity.
And then they encouraged people to camp together for a little while at the end of that summer.
And make relationships, which they did.
Everybody was getting along.
Many long term relationships were made.
Hold on, I gotta call my dogs.
That's good, Jenny.
Oh.
Jenny's the Dalmatian.
She ate.
And then wanted to go out.
That's good.
She's been going out, but she hadn't eaten yet.
She'd been too stressed.
Oh, Jenny.
Let's go in.
So a lot of good relationships were made.
And at the end of the season, kind of when the sea, like they had just like you can't campus one big camp for very long, you know, that's very harvest time.
Right.
Only when there's enough resources to feed everybody.
Yeah, right.
So as, as winter's approaching, you got to break up in the smaller smaller camps and it sucks for everybody because they like to be together, you know.
So, so the people in this new camp were kind of grieving that they had to leave each other.
The teenagers were especially having difficulty dealing with the younger people having difficulty dealing with the separation.
And so while everybody was already starting to move out.
They kind of lingered on and played some more games together.
And one of the games that they played was a hoop and arrow game.
Where you, where you throw this, this ring is divided into different segments and stuff and then you try to pass a dart through an arrow through it, you know, and depending on what part of the hoop you hit, you get different points and that kind of thing.
At the end of the game.
Two boys seem to be tied.
But they disagreed that they were tied.
They each thought they actually beat the other and they start arguing about it.
And in the end.
That be Gunny Boy
picked up a weapon.
I think a stick.
Something simple.
And killed that snake boy.
The young, the younger guy.
And that rekindled the whole feud.
That they had supposedly overcome.
And, you know, so for me, like,
there's, you know, and this, this is what like we have, we have a dance in the beaver bundle that has that, that ring that they played with.
And the scalp.
And it involves the links, which is the embodiment of morning star.
The links dances that scalp around the hoop, the hoop and stick and
but the song.
That goes with it is a is a song about.
You know, the, it's a, it's now used as a victory song.
But it's a, it's a song that says, you know, the snake man, he cried anyway.
And it's, it's a weird thing, like I get from the story, like, there's very court, like, you know, basic anthropological stuff that I get.
From the story, you know, like we are, we are all human.
We are all like, basically the same.
In all of our motivations and the ways that we carry out things and all of this weird weird, you know, at core, we're all the same.
But these symbols divide us if like the visual thing.
And if we can take out that element at all, you know, if we can take out that element, we can get much closer.
But then the next divisory issue is distance.
It reminds me of the divisions in the hoop.
Not saying it's important.
Also, we got about, we got about one minute and then I have to record again.
Okay.
Can you hold your thought here?
Well, this is basically the end of this story.
That's the owl child story.
And that's what the owl child scout in the bundle.
Yes.
Yeah.
Well, no, he's enemies scout.
Well, he's a snake.
Snake.
The snake boy scout with the, with the hoop.
Sometimes also with the, with the dark.
What does it mean the snake boy cried anyway, the snake boy died.
This, yeah.
Yeah.
Well, he, he cried anyway.
The snake, the snake man. Cause he, when he was being killed.
Um, you, like in the two games.
The point systems.
Um, if you're getting killed and you cry.
You know, that's not good.
Okay.
We have to stop there. Hold that thought.
I'll be back.
Okay.
Sorry.
