I am reading from this book Adonis, Sufism and Surrealism. This is page 130 in the
chapter The Aesthetic Dimension. The writings of Sufis such as Al-Nafari,
Al-Tawwihidi and Ibn Arabi shed light on three characteristics of this school of
writing which was the force behind the change in Arab poetical writing. First,
poetry is not a linguistic gain in which words are ornamental and decorative
tools and play no active or ideative role. On the contrary, poetry is something
that transcends the form. It is emotion and action at the same time. It is the
way the human being feels and thinks, the way he understands things and the way
he relates to them. It is a kind of consciousness and because of that it is
by necessity a kind of thought. As matter or meaning converge in the poem,
emotions and meaning are also drawn together. Second, what we call external
material or natural reality is only one aspect of existence and it's most
restricted. What we call life or existence has a broader scope. Poets who
limit their interest and their expression to the external aspect are
ultimately only interested in what they are presenting to everyone and
therefore express only what everyone knows. Their position can be traced back
to naturalism which sees only the branches, leaves and fruit of a tree
rather than the internal movement of its roots, sap and growth. However, what is
behind nature is only another part of nature. Third, what we call truth does
not exist in the world of phenomena apart from its scientific, apart from
in its scientific conventional form. The truth, on the contrary, is mystery hidden
inside things in their concealed world. Man is able to reach it only with
specific knowledge which is neither conventional nor scientific. Opposite the
visible in the world arises the invisible and opposite the objective in the
world arises the subjective. However, going beyond the formal game, external
reality and natural overt appearances demand a radical change in the ways of
acquiring knowledge which will bring about complete emancipation from the
stranglehold of the social religious political establishment and what it has
written or marginalized and will lead to the freeing up of the internal
subjective dynamic of the world with its emotions and desires and dreams, with
its unconscious natural instincts and aspirations and things it suppresses in
everything that the culture of the body requires which goes beyond the culture of
the spirit in its religious forms in particular. If the apparent culture as
defined by the socio-political religious establishment is limited and it is easy
to limit it, then the inner culture is not limited and it is difficult to limit
it. If the language that explains the former is limited and restrictive like
it, then the language that explains the latter is not limited and escapes any
form of limitation. Thus we name the first language logical, direct, clear and
we name the second effective, obscure, figurative. The first computes and
represents things and the second awakens and enriches them. Sufi writing is the
experience of attaining the absolute and it is what we find among the great
creators in all ages. Myth and symbol are two forms that direct us toward greater
depths and broader horizons and a more certain search for meaning. They are one
of the ways of returning to the collective unconscious, to what goes
beyond the individual, to human memory and its fables, to the past as a kind of
unconsciousness. They are all a symbol which goes beyond the relative to the
absolute. To explain it poetically, ideas do not appear by themselves as in
philosophy but appear only in their relationships with what is within them.
Symbol and myth are the meaning point between the apparent and the concealed,
the visible and the invisible. They are therefore the point of illumination, the
dynamic center which is diffused in all directions. At the same time they are
expressions of different levels of all kinds of reality. This is what allows
the poet not only to discover what we do not know but also to recreate what we
know since he links it with the movement of the unknown and the unending. On this
level, poetry becomes knowledge.
