Hello everybody. Welcome.
On a late night walk, in a hot place that is now a bit breezy and cooler in the night.
A friend of mine was recently telling me that sometime after our first conversation since we were children,
about four months ago, he had some dreams about me.
And in the dreams I was driving a specific make of car.
And it turns out that, in point of fact, I have been driving that certain make of car.
And it's not my car.
Perhaps a week after our first conversation since we were children,
I had a dream, and I wrote this down in the morning, as I sometimes do when I can recall my dreaming.
I had a dream that I met a sort of scruffy, overly enthusiastic little dog.
And the next day, I met that dog.
Now a wise skeptic would introduce some facts here and say,
Oh yes, but are you sure you did not mention the make of this car in the conversation that you had?
And in all frankness, I can't be sure.
Might have.
And then the skeptic might say, well, as you've been near this dog for a while now, perhaps you had seen it previously,
and it only registered subconsciously, and this came up in your dream.
And you can see that if we're very, very picky and careful,
we may be able to find plausible explanations for implausible phenomenon,
assuming, of course, that precognitive dreams are implausible, or more severely impossible.
Now for that to be true, for them to be impossible, and even for them to be implausible,
we have to be able to explain every such event in all of human history.
Every event where a situation we're traveling toward in the future
is foreseen in a vision or a dream, and then to some reasonable degree of similarity
between the vision and our memory of it and the event that occurs.
Because certainly in the visions some things might be different in the dream.
And another skeptic would argue that since we're talking about dreaming, this is a matter of post-hoc memory adjustment.
I don't really remember the dog in the dream. This dog matches closely enough, therefore my memory of the dream changes
to include the specific dog, and I mistakenly believe that somehow I had seen the future, so to speak, in a limited sense.
The language is a bit confusing because someone who can see the future probably see all futures.
All of the future, right? The future isn't a future, it's all the future.
So we can use extreme language to be dismissive and say no one sees the future.
They see future situations sometimes, apparently, in dreams or vision or dance of awareness in our minds,
which sometimes becomes extremely subtle and discerning under certain circumstances
or in certain people, in certain moments.
Now, there's a thread through most of these stories of precognition, and the thread is one of intimacy.
Probably my friend felt very close with me and was very concerned about something,
and that concern focused the faculties that are capable of seeing something of the future.
In general, most of us are taught either that there's certainly no such thing as precognition,
an idea I consider to be impossible.
In a way, it's almost like you're dancing along with a conversation partner,
and they pause for a moment and you supply the word that they were looking for,
and they laugh, and you laugh.
Surely you didn't have their mind, and yet the intimacy that exists in that relational situation
starts to create evidence for shared minds or even minds synchronizing together.
And so someone who is highly synchronized with a series of related events might guess the next beat
without much difficulty, because now they're seeing from perspective outside they're limited.
I'm just me, mine.
I don't think we should be too fascinated with precognition itself.
That would end badly, I suspect in most cases, though there would be some exceptions.
Rather, what's interesting is that it's possible, or not that it's possible,
meaning that we have the capacity as human beings to reliably and veritably have these kinds of experiences.
The two that I mentioned are trivial, but personal to me.
And they're recent experiences, they're not distant memories.
The conversation with my friend happened today.
And I'm very close friends with that dog and its owner.
So what I think is fascinating is that somehow in our cultures there are two or three different branches of culture
that would relate to this.
There are the skeptics who, let's face it, are reasonable to be skeptical
unless A, they've had the experience themselves personally,
or B, some demonstration has been made to them personally that is overwhelmingly convincing.
So we have the skeptics, and most of what they're skeptical about is not precognition.
It's really easy for them to point out successes that this perspective entails.
Then we have the believers, and this is many branches on this little branch.
People who are religious about this or find it so astonishing that the coherence stability of their everyday mind is disrupted by their fascination with this
and its implications.
And then you have religion, and whether or not such things are described as the fruit of evil or a sin or bad magic, idolatry, whatever you want to make of it.
Obviously any such actual senses in human beings would be an exceptional threat to religions because they would have to either embrace it or not.
So the skeptics, the believers, and the religious.
Now, not all precognition happens in a vision.
There are many examples of forms that are not visual.
Someone has an incredibly good feeling about a situation, which turns out to be wildly good for them.
Another person has a significant foreboding, and something really disturbing happens.
They may even have a foreboding that includes the kind of disturbing thing that turns out to happen.
And the complexity here is teasing apart those feelings and their seeming focus or the events that take place because somehow our orientation in awareness and behavior and emotion, all of these things, intelligence.
It seems to evoke, to some degree, it seems capable of evoking situations in the future for us.
Certainly some people stumble into things, but brilliant young women and men, Mary Shelley who wrote Frankenstein, Helen Reddy, the folk singer,
just some names off the top of my head, Lynne Margolis, the evolutionary biologist, Dorian Sagan's mother, Carl Sagan's ex-wife,
and well-known people like Gödel and Einstein, Wolfgang Pauli, and mathematicians and physicists and such.
They chased something into the future, and that certainly produced direct results.
But I suspect that our orientations have a stranger way of affecting how things turn out, so to speak, although they never completely turn out, do they, unless the story ends?
By which I mean to indicate that situations continue to evolve after their high, low, mid, or unusual transformations.
We often refer to one's heartfelt goals and aspirations as dreams, probably not an accident this, it's correlation.
Though I am not saying that dreams are fundamentally precognitive, though I will say I think they're metacognitive.
That's not ordinary cognition going on, but cognition is somehow involved, or consciousness is involved.
Now, if any human in all of history had even one dream in which they saw a future situation
that later, by all lights we could bring, appears to have come to pass.
And they wouldn't necessarily have to see a later one.
If Joe has a dream that Tina's cooking a souffle and calls her in a faraway city to discover that she's just found herself in a cooking class and they made souffles, this qualifies.
And things like this are happening all day long, every day.
So one of the things I'm at pains to testify to is that I know these experiences are real and they are true.
I don't need a commonplace explanation for them, nor do I require a religious one.
Instead, it is clear to me that minds form networks, and the networks have transports that are not physical. They are relational.
A man has a dream about a specific place in a city he lives one night.
The next day, in that place his wife meets her long lost sister, and they discover each other there in that place.
This is the nature of how cognition works in groups of humans.
Because we're isolated and fed stimuli through electronic devices all day long, this is not much of our experience.
And to be honest, there's a vast portion of this kind of experience or experience that gets labeled this way, or narratized as this, which is not reliable.
And there are all kinds of delusions that simulate the non-ordinary faculties that we are all born with.
At the same time, there's a vast library of techniques to spuriously confuse spectators, producing results that appear to be psychic.
So we have the authentic and the spurious, and we have the skeptics who don't believe in the authentic, but certainly are aware of the spurious.
And we have the believers, wide continuum, huge range of different ones, each believing different things for different reasons, and talking amongst themselves, and publishing books, and so on and so forth.
Most of that behavior is confused.
What these faculties are natural to all human beings, and they take different forms in different people, in different places, in different cultures, in different times.
And it's very confusing for those people.
And some of those people have both things. They have both authentic functioning of such faculties and delusion.
And in fact, the authentic functioning of such faculties often leads to delusion, because the attempt to explain them to oneself and others is fraught with almost irresolvable complexities
of tangled social constructs, and ideas, and concepts, and science, and religion.
And the fact that delusion does permeate the field, but it permeates just about every field.
So that shouldn't be surprising.
Of course, I've read many, many stories about the topic of time travel and precognition, various kinds.
Of course, what we're talking about here is very narrow precognition. Again, no one knows the future.
This kind of experience, precognitive experience, is ordinarily, most commonly associated with single events.
There's one thing that happens. I meet the dog. I drive the car.
Someone who could see the future would be a prophet. Even the people who see the future of business, they have dreams, they have visions,
and they conceive of them as something that happens in a dream-like state, or an aspiration.
They have a vision, and they chase it, and we say, in English, they bring it to life.
Einstein was this kind of person, so was Mary Curie, and many people who we revere.
I think the crucial point is that the network of minds has precedence over local minds, and it's always been this way for humans.
But primary features of the network between us have been captured by deleterious processes
that take advantage of these principles for crude, or meaningless, or coercive results,
mostly because we're fairly isolated, us moderns. And I'll speak for myself. I'm fairly isolated.
There are certainly people who are not very isolated, though they may feel alone among the people they're with.
So the network of minds has precedence, and the network has layers, and the layer of electronic communications,
television, radio, the internet, our smartphones, so on, computers, has grown in an eye-blink to astounding dominance in 20 years, two decades.
But the transports of the network were always there in newspapers and television and social culture, stories of histories,
and national narratives, the community narratives, the sort of what you're supposed to do and not do be and not be content.
Corporate and business cultures, of course. So these things eat up most of the available resources that we would otherwise very naturally use in all kinds of astonishing ways.
And thus we would discover that being human is very little like what we've been doing, and a lot like something so astonishing that no one's ever told a story about it.
In their stories, they point toward it.
So I'd like you to imagine that the mind that you think is yours is the pinky on a very complex animal, most of which you never see,
and the representation of it that you do see is the public exchange of information and the motives that underlie those processes, the actual ones, not the stated ones.
And that's really the great interference. That's how we're kept alone, apart, frightened, confused.
And, you know, it's hard to say whether it's a conspiracy or not, and frankly it doesn't really matter. That's not the important question.
Can we retrieve the terrain together? That's the important question, and the answer is that we can. And it's natural for us to do so.
The problem is we so rarely find ourselves in any context with intrepid others of good character and wise heart with whom we might pursue such adventures.
But when we dream, we are not in ordinary time, and so it's entirely natural for the faculties that produce dreams in our consciousness, our sleeping consciousness, or sometimes our waking consciousness, to see into future situations.
It sounds trivial if I say something like, before there was radio, there was telepathy, and humans practiced it. They taught their children this. They developed these faculties intentionally and were well aware of them.
And before there was television, there was group dreaming. The dreamers would go together into the dream world, and they would all have the experience of a similar dream.
If this happened even once in human history, then this is how humans are. We might say, oh no, that was just some strange accident.
Yes, yes. The problem is that if the strange accident resulted in them seeing beyond the membrane of now into the future, then it's possible to see beyond that membrane.
If people could dream together in groups and adventure this way in their sleep, imagine what they might learn, because this was not a recreational behavior for them. It was a sacred behavior.
It was a matter of deep human intimacy and valor and awe and wonder and joy and hope.
They could use these skills to find food where there was none, water where there was none, medicine where there was none.
These skills were used heroically. And this is not surprising, as that is their nature.
When I began speaking tonight, I wanted to talk about identity and how we really got it backwards.
Under ordinary circumstances, our identity in the clan would supersede all other identities, because it's the fundamental basis, the relational basis of identity itself.
So when that gets counterfeited and captured by all kinds of strange processes and shit, we come to think of ourselves, eventually many of us, as separate.
Because the relational terrain, rich and deep, as it truly is in every moment without our awareness of this, is occluded by the noise and brightness of machinery and information.
These are matters of the heart, not the intellect. The intellect is not the one who sees and has these powers. The intellect can consider them and analyze them and try to understand them and try to make explanations for them.
But the simplest explanation is that all minds, in all of time, are one mind. And we are a little instance, a very unusual instance of that one mind.
And so in all of time, in all of identity, all those minds are ours. The minds of angels and aliens and long dead saints and sinners and insects and schools of fish and whales and forests, lakes, oceans, coral reefs, the stars, all of this is our mind.
But what I wanted to talk about was something a little more accessible, which is the fact that, though I think of myself as Darren and I think I know who I am,
but if you put me in a really good context, I'll transform immediately in all kinds of very dramatic ways and skills and abilities that I can't meaningfully demonstrate in the context I'm walking around in at the moment will naturally burst forth and blossom into expression.
As will those skills and faculties of those I am with. When we establish an intimate relational context with integrity, we get to discover who we actually are.
Because who we actually are is not the little doll that walks around by itself doing stuff and making money in all of these things.
We have deeply seated, urgent relational starvation, inhibition.
The thinness and the narrowness of the context in which we ordinarily find ourselves is so severe that most of us eventually adjust to it, at least in some degree.
And even if we have to resist it, that's just as much work.
So unless we can be free within it, unless we can find something better to do together, someone better to be together than the identities that we have in the sort of simulation of community that we live in,
then we may discover who we are.
Now, we can undertake such quests on our own, but it will be very uncommon for us to understand just how profound the changes we undergo with others are.
Because we transform very dramatically. If I am with someone else, immediately I am a different Darren.
But if I am with three or four trusted people and we are chasing something important and beautiful together, oh my goodness, now I come to life.
It was as if I was a zombie before that.
So who am I? Am I the zombie? Or am I the one who effloresces in group roles where identity is transformed by our purpose together and our authenticity?
And who are you?
You are surely not the mere functions of your life in your ordinary context, and some of you may be amazing human beings.
I don't know who's listening, but I'm thinking of people I love who have such a narrow range of social or vocational or educational opportunity
that it's not too much different for them than being in prison. It's certainly a kind of prison.
And so it's very difficult to know ourselves. We think we know ourselves, but how often are we in a context where the deepest, most heartfelt aspects of the core of our identity
are not merely invited into expression and exploration, but are celebrated and produce incredible benefit for everyone present.
And perhaps everyone in all of time, because if we truly share minds, then when we come together this way, the benefits are everywhere available.
But I just wanted to ask my listeners to, if they've not considered this deeply before, to imagine yourself in a context so profound, thrilling, heroic, naturally human,
uncontrived, authentic, that the finest lights of the core of your soul would finally unlock.
There'd be nothing for them to defend themselves against anymore.
And they could openly communicate and be in a sense resurrected.
Now I guess, you know, when I start using language like this, it sounds religious.
I suppose that's okay too.
There's something like a sacred identity in the network of all minds and beings in all of time that is uniquely embodied in each of us.
And there's a shared component that when any two people come together with this understanding, astonishing things commonly occur.
And most of them are beautiful.
I know for sure that if I am just alone and there is no one to sing for or to or with, I might still sing.
But it wouldn't be the same.
In fact, without my imagining someone who's listening, someone who's interested and finds this topic compelling.
Without that, I couldn't be the man I'm being right now.
I wouldn't be doing this.
I wouldn't be exploring these things and improvising around them and trying to see into them.
I'd probably be doing something pretty dull instead.
So even the idea of other people is enough to motivate us to recover, to do the inner archeology and find these ancient faculties and needs and urgencies of our hearts and our humanity.
Our nature as animals and beings, perhaps as souls.
Some time ago I'd written a letter.
Actually just a brief electronic note to someone I hold in high esteem.
A couple days passed and then one night for more than an hour, I kept getting the sense that this person was thinking of me.
And I didn't take it too seriously at the time. Again, I think we shouldn't obsess about such things. It's very dangerous.
But we can look into them with great fascination and curiosity.
Then when I woke the next morning they'd responded.
And I was surprised.
There's no reasonable way for me to gain any information about that. I didn't have that thought at any other time in the past ten years.
So there's a sensor out there somewhere.
I remember hearing a story of an African farmer who, if I remember it correctly, had a specific root in his garden.
That by being in constant contact with this root, you could easily know who was in the garden.
If someone was hurting the garden, taking vegetables.
There are tens of thousands of such stories, perhaps millions of them. Some of them are surely invented.
And yet the principle is not invented. People didn't just dream this up.
It's a very strange thing when one realizes that the identity that is familiar to me as myself is not me.
Nor is the identity that would emerge in creative, cooperative, intelligent relation with a small group of others or a large group of others.
Nor is that me.
Most of what I am is potential.
And the potential remains unfulfilled until we either personally establish a context for its fulfillment and discovery.
Or we join with others in such pursuits.
And so I don't know who I am.
Now I've seen myself in extreme contexts, positive and negative.
And I've seen myself in amazing relation with others and terrible relation with others.
Nonetheless, it's like, imagine that there's a culture of aviators.
They all have these things called airplanes. And they're strange and exotic machines.
Unfortunately for this culture, they have the religion, but not the thing.
All of these strange and exotic machines do all kinds of strange and exotic things, but none of them ever leave the ground.
They do not fly. And they crash and fall apart and are very expensive and, you know, ridiculous and so on.
But the culture believes themselves to be aviators.
And they talk about flying and dogfights and aerial combat and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, but none of them have ever flown.
This is how it is for us.
Not having flown, we don't know who we are yet.
And in fact, most of the things that we use to assuage our despair and loneliness and boredom and confusion, cowardice and whatever would have you.
These are, we use these things to divert the hunger for that flight, to know who we are, to become who we are, or who we can become.
It is a becoming thing, not an is thing. There isn't a person I am. This is the problem.
The idea is of static identity. There's no such thing as that.
When we are with others, everything changes. And if it doesn't, something's messy.
If it doesn't change much, we can be fairly sure the relational context is superficial.
Mechanical, perhaps.
I think we are born aching to discover and fulfill the potential we brought to our human experience and birth.
We ache to know the network of minds firsthand, to fly within it, to go on missions for it, together with brave and heartfelt others.
And I could just be speaking about myself, but I doubt it.
I am certainly this way.
And it's not so much a pet religion as it is something I've always known.
But until I encountered something resembling its fruition, I could never have guessed at how truly astonishing the nature of minds and their relationships is.
It's a very strange time. Our time now.
It is surely as much a time of opportunity as it is of darkness.
But darkness is more easily entrenched in the situation we find ourselves in.
I don't mean, of course, ordinary darkness and pain and suffering and confusion, rage, loss of social and relational coherence.
Some of us have surely experienced loss of internal coherence.
It's a very unusual time.
I know who I am in my day to day experience.
I suspect who I can become in these suspicions could be called dreams or vision.
When we set goals for ourselves, we usually have in mind some desirable result.
Yet there are different kinds of goals. There are supporting goals like trying to stay healthy and sleep well, get exercise, have social good social relations, so on.
And then there are vocational goals and academic goals.
But underneath those there are fundamental purpose of essences that we brought with us into birth.
And it's these I would love to see resurrected in our lives and minds and hearts within for each other.
And it doesn't have to happen universally. It can happen for an hour on a beach, three people, five people, two people.
One person. Yeah, it doesn't have to be permanent and it doesn't have to be universal, but we can walk in that direction together.
And I'd like to.
These are my thoughts for this evening.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to learning together again very soon.
