It seems to me our human birth involves a relationship with fundamentally crucial questions.
Who am I?
What is life?
What is nature?
What does it mean to be human?
What can it mean?
What can nature be?
What can it be for us?
What can life be for me?
What can life be for my people?
What can life be for the world?
Why?
Why are we born?
Why do we live?
Why do we die?
What is light?
What is time?
What are they really?
What do we say they are?
We have ways of talking about all of these things that are wildly incomplete, yet imply
an authoritative grasp on the phenomena.
When we think about what it means to be human, there are many perspectives and orientations
we can take, but most of them fall into two basic species, one of them is evaluative,
this kind of mind will look around for examples and get some statistical data together, whether
that's informally, just as our everyday lives, or scientifically, and we'll then make announcements
about what the norms are, the averages, and we'll perhaps think that to be a relatively
complete grasp of the phenomena.
But then there's another species of mind that has to do with the invention.
There's the mind of evaluation and analysis, and there's the mind of invention that creates
new ways of being and seeing and learning and understanding and relating.
The mind of analysis tends to easily dismiss possibility and go with what's written on
the page, these are the numbers we got, that's the situation, and yet the mind of invention
is constantly transforming, learning, developing, making new domains of possibility come to
life in human experience and relation.
It strikes me that we're all constantly subject to the produce of both kinds of minds, in our
media, in our education, in our social experience, in our cultural experience, we're constantly
being subject to projections about who's doing what, what things mean, what's worth
fighting for, why people are fighting.
A lot of these things are debilitatingly confused, incoherent, and rather terrifying.
If we were to pay attention to the popular exposure of our humanity in the media, extremely
grim picture emerges very rapidly with not so many exceptions.
One begins to wonder if there are any existing contexts in which human excellence is even
possible let alone being practiced.
Of course there are, and yet it seems that in most cases these contexts struggle under
the domination of the agendas of commerce and war, money, power, so that it is as if
they are rodents hiding in the infrastructure trying to get enough resources to just maintain
their survival and not be crushed by opposing concerns.
In our lives there's a gravity that drags us down toward compliance with kind of a least
common denominator, social, intellectual, relational, ecological, developmental status
of our real or possible humanity.
And if the culture that we're in is so crudely and misguidedly oriented, it can be difficult
for us to, as human beings, either as individuals or families, teams, communities, it can be
really difficult for us to find or establish any context in which our human excellence
and developmental urgency is even possible.
The nature of our humanity is peculiar, it forms itself to the structures of the environment
and contexts that it understands itself to be in.
So in many cases I think we experience a number of different domains of gravity that are dragging
us down toward experiences of our humanity that are, how should we put it?
They are compromises of our human potential, our will, and the incredible, the inestimable
bank of assets that our evolution and our human history have endowed us with as birthrights.
All of these have we seen, or the contexts that we are commonly found in, the contexts
to which we subscribe and by which we are relatively dominated have nearly precisely
the opposite purposes, agendas, and outcomes.
So it's as if there's a kind of gravity, a kind of social gravity that's dragging us
away from the discovery and embodiment of our possible humanity into ever more conflicted
and poorly equipped declarations of our present status or what we can predict, quote unquote,
given our analysis.
Again we see the division between creative invention together, within for each other
and the history of life on earth, of the potentials of our humanity, an option always
available to us in any moment that we should agree to do so, whether that be two of us
or thousands, or commentary on the analysis, the prediction of various kinds of doom or
sudden explosive progress in futures that we are apparently not making, they seem to
be made for us.
These two polarities can also be thought of as like the things happen to us and me,
like the world is about things that happen to me, I'm a passive recipient of things
that happen or are, or I make my relationship with events and possibility with opportunity.
I'm inventing the world together with the others whom I care for and love and the living
ecologies of them, two different kinds of positions.
And the popular one is reactive, it's passive reactive, it's a spectator like role for those
of us who interact with most of modern media, particularly anything related to news.
So there's this gravity that's just not only holding us back, it's actually driving us
down to ever lower rums of our intellectual and developmental, relational, ecological
possibilities as human beings.
And it's an ambient gravity, no one's necessarily doing it to you.
But we might imagine it as the result of something we're not doing instead.
And of course all the things we actually do engage in, most of them reinforce that gravity.
Whatever those things might be, we watch television, we buy lots of expensive objects
and cars and homes and ranches and things, or we consume elaborate food, we drive cars
around all the time, we become addicted to drugs or various kinds of rather absurd religious
or even scientific ideas.
Instead of forming anything like an intelligent culture, we're just kind of getting dragged
down into these little sub-attracts of compromised, counterfeit, humanity, intelligence, relation.
And it's all very technological, you know, it's all driven by today, by a fundamental
spirit of let's make machines and relate with them ever more closely.
Since I was young, our species has been reaching slowly into space.
The first efforts came from World War II and were primarily aggressive.
They were the efforts of war machines.
But we eventually achieved escape velocity from the biospheric membrane of Earth into
space.
And it's a desolate, isolate, dangerous place for living animals because there's nothing
hospitable anywhere near us.
In fact, just traveling in space is extremely dangerous for us for all kinds of reasons
we largely haven't even discovered yet, and for many that we're aware of.
And we've always been excited about the possibility of exploring other worlds and many people
are excited about the possibility that someday our species might contact another advanced
intelligent machine making representational species like ourselves.
And we have dreams of spaceflight, and I think these are in general well founded, but there's
something a bit confusing about all of that, which is that there's an urgent need to abandon,
there seems to be this urgent need to abandon the world that we actually exist on, our actual
home, birthplace, the only living world that we've ever known, certainly the only prodigiously
thriving world in nearby space, as if we could do something better if we were given a desolate
world to start with, like for example Mars, or even do something interesting.
So there's this weird problem where we're not willing to invent the most amazing human
world that we can invent here on the planet on which we've originated, in which all of
our soul and the history of our people is deeply invested, and with all of the life
forms that we have evolved in the most intimate relation with.
These are the most precious assets in the universe, the ecology, sub-Earth.
So apparently there's some desire to think, oh there's something really exciting beyond
the envelope of space.
That may be true, but we've abandoned the necessity of our role as an intelligent species
here on Earth.
It seems to me we need to achieve escape velocity from a very different membrane, the membrane
of our culture, that if we could achieve escape velocity from that barrier that has kept us
conserving and replicating frames of mind, behavior, activity that are fundamentally
deceptive, contagious, incoherent, dangerous, momentous, and drive hundreds of years of
human confusion and atrocity and war, ecological devastation, personal human devastation.
If we could achieve escape, if we could form a vehicle together capable of achieving escape
velocity from our culture and establishing not our other worlds but on this world, intelligent
human culture for the first time in memory where we can learn to discover and invent our
human excellence and to understand the incredible assets with which our animalian and cognitive
evolution have endowed us as potentials, if we could achieve escape velocity and produce
on Earth what we dream of producing in space, an entirely new way of being human, a way
that is true to our nature and the possibility of our intelligence and the incredible, and
I will say divine promise of our communal being together here on Earth with all of the
life forms that have existed and all of the unborn beings that are yet to come on Earth.
I think the challenge is not to penetrate into space but to penetrate into our humanity
and the possibilities of our intelligence to form a vehicle together capable of pioneering
the true frontier, the one we've left unexamined while we've chased every possible mechanism,
method, technique, algorithm, technology, and research target.
Somehow we've developed an incredibly sophisticated overlay
but rather than endow us with contact with the true nature and potentials of our human birth
and life, something like the opposite has been going on. Those are being highly inhibited
and we have to serve the processes that are inhibiting or doing the inhibition
for pay, for food, for shelter, for social access, for access to healthcare,
for what is often an incredibly crude and vocational oriented education.
Our species imagines ourselves to be an intelligent animal yet if you look carefully at all of our
activity, including much of our discussion, you will find very little evidence of this
if you look from the perspective of nature of ecologies surviving, flourishing, thriving,
informing each other's evolutionary potential, magnifying that potential into the future,
building the opposite of financial interest, building developmental interest on modest
investments that pay off in shocking ways over small periods of time. We translated all that into
a profit oriented accounting system where we can burn that down, we can burn down
evolutionary ecologies to make numbers rise in bank accounts.
It's as if we're all kind of on a mountain together and we have a few different options,
we can circle the mountain which will at least preserve our present altitude.
We can walk around in a circle and we can try and make a little upward progress even if we're
circling, maybe occasionally we will, or we can descend which of course gravity is going to help
you do that. Once you start descending gravity is going to kind of keep dragging you down and
farther you descend you'll realize gosh I have to climb all that way just to get back to where I was
already before. So once you start going down once that gravity is pulling you down there's a real
ongoing impetus for developmental loss where we can grab each other's hands and ascend and as we go
up amazing things happen, new kinds of ascent become possible whereas as we go down the number
of possibilities for ascent are radically limited with each fall. So we can kind of tumble down the
mountain of our humanity where we can together engage our volition, we can take volitional,
intentional, creative action in every moment of our lives and communication with each other
and perhaps especially wherever we shall specifically agree to do so, we can invent
a context, we can invent the vehicle together that can achieve escape velocity and establish a new
world for our people here on this world where we actually live. That's one of the most exciting
ideas that I've ever come across and I hope that we may explore it together
and learn what it might, what might be possible for our humanity rather than deriving it.
From analysis and reports, from contexts that are fundamentally compromised and sources whose
actual agendas have little to do with producing insight or opportunity and a lot to do with
making declarations and selling copies and getting clicked through and this kind of thing.
So we're constantly immersed in this flow of counterfeit signals about what it is or might
be to be human and I know that we can together establish a context that's both resistant to that
and produces entirely the other kind of signal, a signal toward intelligence.
We can actually learn to produce a signal we ourselves can follow into the recognition and
understanding of our nature as human beings of the possibilities of our human birth, our world,
our ecologies. We can produce a signal that becomes a way of travel. This isn't something we
can subscribe to. We're not going to find it on offer. Books will not help us. It's something that
we can experience and become only by inventing it together with and for each other and that's my
invitation to you today.
