Hello everybody, welcome.
I'm watching a small
memorization of birds,
form, shapes,
or rather something more like manifolds
in the sky.
And they come together
in clumps
and they disperse
into flocks and
there's a living flow there.
I want to talk today
about
some of the things that are disappearing from our lives.
Many of us are aware
that
the rapid and accelerating advance
of computational technology
has created
systems
driven by the purposes
of corporations and governments
primarily.
And these processes that run
in the network of human minds
that I call the cognisium
comprise features
that I refer to as thrips.
And thrips are
what can be thought of,
it's very difficult to say
what precisely a thrips is,
but they resemble
ideas
and structured hierarchical processes.
So
the idea that there's a network of minds
is a thrips.
Normally we believe
that our minds are separately encapsulated
by our bodies as if they are a possession.
And while there's a way in which this is true
or there are some ways
in which this is true
there are more fundamental layers
and at the most fundamental layer
it's my perspective
that all minds in all of time
comprise a network
that freely communicates
beneath the surface of our conscious awareness
most of the time.
For some of us
particularly those who experience
enlightenment
there may be some direct contact
with this family of minds.
In the layers that our modern consciousness
is ordinarily aware of
and participating in
most of the content
is toxic, domineering,
very parasitic,
highly aggressive,
extremely contagious
and those features
of the family of thrips
are accentuated
and exaggerated and hyperbolized
by the technologies
presently in use by humans.
The problem is about to become
vastly more significant
and overwhelming.
So as I was beginning to say
many of us are aware that
the analytics
produced by our interactions with machines
are being captured
by governments and corporations
and while there are some processes
that run
the representational layer
of human collective behavior
that are at least modestly altruistic
the vast majority
are not.
They are lethal
and they are lethal not just to living beings
which of course they are certainly lethal too
but to the possibility
of having a mind
whose degrees of freedom
increase over time and whose capacity for insight,
creativity, altruism, awareness
expand dramatically
not just merely over time
but especially when we come together
with the purpose of doing so.
So there's a fundamental layer
that is trustworthy
but in the representational layer
thrips, holds sway
and dominate the network
and it's as if there's something like demons
because they ceaselessly colonize
and assemble new forms of colonization
and modes and depths
and repercussions
and a process that would be terrifying to visualize.
So the representational layer
is a bit like the dead structured
mispurposed simulation
of the cognisium
the living network of all minds
and the humans keep producing these representations
as they depart further and further from contact
and embodiment
of the natures and purposes
that live in the cognisium
and this process
causes extremely rapid evolution of thrips.
Now it turns out that
there's a fundamental principle here
that is crucial to pay very deep and careful attention to
and it's the principle of privacy.
Humans, because we are pod animals
express both the nature of the cognisia
that the human cognisium
derives its character from
and our most sacredly held
and experienced hopes, dreams and principles
arise from that relationship.
And these hopes, dreams and principles
that we are born with a unique personal library of
are co-opted, hidden, inhibited, converted.
We're incentivized to throw them away for
things that vaguely represent some of their features
in a kind of addictive way
that caters to the least
virtuous and trustworthy aspects of our humanity.
So we all undergo this process
of losing contact with the cognisium
and gaining an ever deeper vulnerability
to the representations that replace it.
And this process is furiously driven by modern technology
to new lows.
Because we are social creatures
we have sort of as an imperative within us
and each human being is incredibly unique
even though they all fulfill the sort of cheat sheet
of being human, right, having a human body and so on.
Each person is incredibly unique
and part of the beauty of that
is that it creates opportunities for synergy, right,
for two or three people together
to exponentially exceed what a single person is likely
to be capable of seeing, being and doing.
We tend to prosper best in small, tightly knit, highly intimate groups.
However, the landscape of humanity is very complex.
It's a topology and there are individuals who, for example,
can easily outperform vast populations of disoriented humans.
But even those humans, the highly individualistic ones,
rely on the representational cognisium
and their contact with the original cognisium
to achieve the astonishing results that they're capable of, their prodigy,
whether these are singers or mathematicians or surgeons or biologists
or authors, myself, you.
We all rely on both, right, we're connected both to the original cognisium fundamentally
and to the layered representations that swarm in the human populations.
But because we are social animals, all of us crave not merely attention from other humans
but something I'm going to call positive observation.
And you can see this exemplified in representations such as football games or other games.
We are extremely aware of animals, not merely of how we are actually being observed.
We simulate observers in our conscience, in thought, in our concerns,
in our predictive behavior, in our vigilant sentinels.
We simulate possible observers and for some people this is catastrophic
because it overwhelms their consciousness.
Endless simulations of possible or probable negative observation, judgmental observation.
Trouble all of us, well, most of us very deeply.
Again, it's a topology, right, there's mountains and valleys.
And the humans in the mountains and valleys aren't static, they're constantly transforming
and responding to new inputs and creating new outputs and so forth.
But you can see social media as an example of the inherent desire for positive observation
and the capacities of the processes and thrips that are running in the representational simulation of the cognisium.
Incentivize this heavily so that you have bizarre situations where relatively ordinary people
can suddenly be raised to the status of a superstar and then maintain and profit from that status over time
simply by taking pictures of themselves.
Pictures being representations, right, flat, digital representations.
Now it turns out that we're so sensitive to observation that the feelings that arise
if we are concerned that we are being observed transform our consciousness.
Whether we are concerned with positive observation or negative observation
both have a radical effect on who we are capable of being alone and together.
And when the problems that we now face become common, there's actually strong incentives to be phony.
And this isn't just affecting the living humans, it's affecting the past, all the humans that have lived in the past
because what we do now today transforms the meanings of those lives in the past.
And it's affecting processes in gene selection and the evolutionary development of our species dramatically
because whether or not it's yet proven there seems to be a predictive aspect to human reproductive behavior
and at least epigenetic if not genetic changes that arise predictively to create humans that are more suited
to what's at play in the moment and what's coming next.
And if life is opportunistic, this is sensible because you want not the same body for a thousand years,
you want new bodies that are well suited to the environments and situations they're likely to encounter
at least in the near term future of a single lifetime.
One of the things, one of the features of our human experience that is rapidly disappearing
is one of the most fundamentally important to our nature and potentials for humane and intelligent lives and societies.
And that's the principle of privacy.
We must have privacy in our interiority and it's absolutely crucial to many features of not only our potential
for excellence and prodigy and creativity and altruism,
it's crucial for the foundations of our psyche.
When privacy becomes compromised, many of the most important and beautiful capacities of our humanity die on the vine and will not emerge.
I recall the story that a friend of mine told me when she was a young girl, she was studying piano.
And having learned to sight read, she would practice in the daytime and often when she was practicing her mother was in the kitchen.
And every once in a while, often at the end of her practice, she would naturally find herself experimenting and making up her own music.
Obviously, as a loving parent, her mother was attending the musical behaviors of her daughter, listening in, as it were, at a distance.
But sometimes when the little girl would begin composing, she would hear her mother from the kitchen say something like,
What was that you were just playing? That was really beautiful.
And inside the little girl would freeze and stop composing.
And the reason that she stopped composing, well, a reason that she stopped composing, was that the transition from the private to the public.
She needed to feel that she was alone with her experiments.
And they were not meant to be public.
And they were different from display behavior, common to all animals, but unique in its, in actions in humans.
The learning of the songs was posed as a display behavior.
This will garner you the positive attention, observation of others.
But the private composition was sacred.
And there are many crucial aspects to our humanity that will not emerge for public display.
They are fundamentally shy.
They are aware of the problem of the conflict between the original cognizia and the representational simulations of it.
They know that that latter thing is dangerous, untrustworthy, predatory, egregiously misguided.
And so many of the finest potentials of our humanity will not emerge for public display.
They hide.
And it turns out that actual privacy, the certainty, the comfort and the security that come from private thought, behavior, endeavors, imagination, dreaming,
are poisoned when we find ourselves either in an environment where we're being observed by machines for largely nefarious and dangerous, if not lethal purposes.
And eventually it's as if there's an inner garden and the garden is fertilized by nature and silence.
By careful inward cultivation, delicacy, wonder, awe, virtue.
And so these interior faculties are extremely delicate and vulnerable to disruption or replacement by the face of public surveillance.
I see a friend.
We are both out getting some exercise, but it appears my friend prefers privacy.
So for the moment we will not come together and form the bird. Two wings, one animal.
It's absolutely imperative to the health and development of our minds, and I would argue even our souls, that there not be mechanical intrusion, constant mechanical intrusion.
On a walk with a friend the other day, and various of my friends feel differently about this, one of them is, one friend I'm thinking of, is absolutely unconcerned.
Let everything watch me, I don't care. All my behavior is transparent, I have nothing to hide, quote unquote.
And the other friend I'm thinking of is precisely the opposite. When we were going to walk the other day, he enjoined me to leave my phone at home.
Because he wanted at least the nominal sense that we're not being observed or listened to.
And although we think that, well, I can bring my phone and just turn it off, the phones don't actually shut down when we turn them off.
And it's also easy, technologically speaking, to infect a phone with malware that gives the appearance of shutdown without actually shutting the phone off.
And again, even when it's shut off, there are processes running on the device.
Otherwise you wouldn't be able to locate a phone that was shut off, which is certainly a common feature of the technology as it exists today.
Now here's a friend that remembers me.
Yes.
A very friendly cat.
An anciently evolved intelligence.
Yes. Yes.
Yes.
And even though we've only seen each other a very few times, this cat knows me.
Many of the animals are particularly suited, not just for bonding with humans,
but for astonishing depths of intelligence sharing and sensing sharing.
So that actually we extend each other's organismal transcendence by mere proximity.
So privacy is fundamentally essential and it's going away.
We could argue that it's gone already for many of us, especially those of us who live in cities and interact with cell phones and computers and so on.
But privacy is not the same thing as isolation.
Though we could imagine it as a mode of isolation from these technologies that are forged with the fundamental purposes of violating our privacy.
Isolation and privacy have a relationship to each other.
But in many ways mere physical isolation is not actually isolation because the features that connect our minds are not always physical.
Those features I refer to as the mimula, the connection between living minds and the cognisium.
Not all of those features are physical and most of them are non-mechanical.
So that a person living on a desert island, apparently physically isolated from all other humans,
actually connects with the cognisium in very different ways than those who are not thus isolated,
but is still a member of the network moment to moment.
So the technologies presently at play not only obliterate the hope of privacy fairly intentionally,
but the new money is human attention and so anything that can garner attention generates cash and power.
And we live in a time when war and the ecological devastation of the planet are going to continue to create ever more desperate and dystopian situations
for the humans that will inherit these processes and for ourselves.
So we live in a time when we might even say that attention was the new money and influence is its current incarnation.
So obviously my advertising is an attempt to influence our behavior, our loyalties, what we think of as good, desirable, bad, so on.
We now live in a time where psychography, the capacity to collect data from the analytics produced by our interactions
with products, devices, machines, computers, phones will grant governments and corporations the capacity to directly manipulate our minds and our behavior, our thoughts, our dreams even when we're asleep.
In largely malevolent ways.
We're living in the time of the extinction of privacy and the repercussions of this will continue to accelerate and become less and less apparent as they restructure our consciousness, our awareness, what we pay attention to.
Deliberately, this will result in a severe stratification of what we think of as wealth and power.
The nations have now for a good 15 years or longer been engaged in research so that they can conduct war with cognitive weapons rather than physical weapons.
So that they can demoralize and convert and enslave and damage the enemy.
It should be clear that the enemy is all of life on earth and the original cognizia of those things are to be effectively extinguished, if not literally extinguished.
Without the hope of privacy, we will lose the ability to assemble intelligent unities even at the level of two, three people because the faculties involved in that assembly are being deliberately degraded and compromised.
And the stratification will eventually become severe.
We already see situations where individuals or corporations have gathered so much material wealth and power that functionally they are gods.
Google, Amazon, Twitter.
So here are some guys playing basketball.
And you can hear the joyful expressions of their mutual positive observation, competition, reaching for the impossible together.
And even though basketball is a representation of that, you can see how it draws into emergence, something very profound between them.
It's wonderful to see young men engaged in sport and enjoying each other's company and competing in displays of skillful physicality.
These features of our humanity are ancient, but they are representations of behaviors that used to have physical application in our day to day communal hunting and building and creative behaviors.
And now that we live in boxes and our food is delivered in packages, you can see how these representations arise and the cathartic purposes they serve that do actually enhance our health physically and perhaps cognitively and emotionally when we exercise.
But the idea of exercise is itself a representation.
Someone who practices Tai Chi regularly is experiencing exercise but not as a mere representation.
People who run or ride bikes or go for hikes or swim or dance are getting a wide array of benefits that don't come to the people who go to the gym.
We're rapidly entering a time where the acceleration of technological observation of humans will soon be capable of reading changes in skin conductivity,
respiration, pupil dilation, route behavior within our homes, pulse, possibly blood pressure, and this data, this constant observation by machines,
must have absolutely catastrophic repercussions for nearly all of us.
And certainly for everyone who lives in that milieu where we can be observed, psychographized, categorized, evaluated, influenced, and effectively controlled.
Now there are some who would object, oh none of this is new.
This has been going on for hundreds if not thousands of years.
Yeah sure, there were matchsticks for a long time, but nuclear bombs aren't matchsticks.
And with the advent of strong computationally heuristic systems, I don't think of them as artificial intelligences, but it really doesn't matter whether they're intelligent or if there's a mind in there.
The evolution of these processes will be rapid, prodigious, and exponential.
And this will create situations where the hierarchies of power will collapse very quickly to just a few individuals or groups, governments, corporations and so on.
Along many, many years ago I saw these processes coming and I began to write a novel in which the states in the United States had essentially been converted to prisons.
98% of the population was physically, emotionally, cognitively, relationally enslaved.
And in the remaining 2% or less, 1.5% were the technological classes that served the incredibly wealthy tyrants who lived in highly protected enclaves and dominated everything on earth, all of the humans.
And there was one other group in the novel and these were small, highly skillful, highly mobile tribes that had a revolutionary role
and contained many different specializations, doctors, hackers, athletes, people who were sensitive in non-ordinary ways, telepaths, prophets, seers, artists.
And these groups functioned independently from the network to prison system and the technologists and the wealthy with the goal of, you know, overturning that nightmare.
Unfortunately we may find ourselves in a situation where groups like that have become impossible to assemble quickly.
The centrality of privacy to the future of life on earth, the history of life on earth and the earth's role in the network of living worlds is inconceivable.
It is an absolutely fundamental necessity that we establish systems because we're going to have machines and computers, whether we like it or not, at least for the foreseeable future.
Barring a catastrophe that sort of drives us into the end of human civilization, as we so confusedly call it, and that's certainly a possibility.
But for the moment we're in a situation where we must establish systems where our privacy is nearly absolutely preserved.
A system where our analytics are privately held by each of us and our families and our social cohorts, thoroughly encrypted, protected and shared for the purposes of the possibility of giving us meaningful roles.
In a situation where those are going to mostly disappear.
The rapid advance of the processes that swarm under the rubric of artificial intelligence is going to overwhelm us.
Those of us who have been writing a sort of wave toward the future, coders, technologists, doctors, so on, scientists, all of these are going to be either captured or eliminated.
Coding as a human occupation is going to collapse toward producing computationally heuristic systems, quote, AIs, unquote, and that process is going to accelerate exponentially.
We're living in the late phases of what Alvin Toffler described as future shock in his book in the 70s, which I read when I was nine, I think.
So those of us who've been writing the technological surfboard toward the future can sense that there's an imminent explosion that's happening behind us.
We weren't expecting it to come right now, we weren't expecting it to come this furiously, this catastrophically, but it's coming.
Rather, as I said, it's exploding just behind us.
So those shock waves are going to continue to create devastating disruptions in our, what we think of as our societies, but more in our minds, in our bodies.
In our ability to sense and relate intelligently with our origins, our natures, our fundamental humanity.
The problem of representational cognition is central here.
We have to use it in a very balanced and intelligent way.
Otherwise, our vulnerabilities rapidly overwhelm us and replace our intelligence with something like...
something that resembles code.
The vast populations of relatively ordinary humans have already been fairly thoroughly enslaved, but what's coming next is wave after wave of collapsing toward conscription,
and away from the possibility of creative, intelligent, communal, social, and individual experience.
It is conceivable to create systems that make us personally and communally more intelligent every time we touch them.
I've had this idea now and a model of it that I call the Knowledge Amp for about 20 years.
It's surprising that nothing resembling it has emerged in that time,
and it's not clear that I'll ever have the opportunity to chase the development of a system like this.
But it fundamentally depends on privacy, a hard barrier between our analytics that are produced by our interaction with machines
and governments, corporations, and other bad actors who will certainly and are now using the analytics we produce
to subtract degrees of liberty from our human lives and experience and convert those into processes that feed on us.
Obviously there have been some visions of this. Science fiction is rife with them.
The problems that we now face were foreseen long before the advent of sophisticated computing technology.
But we must find a way together somehow to establish systems that protect our privacy.
And the governments and the corporations mostly have already been completely captured or are fundamentally motivated to ensure this does not happen.
There are moves in many of the western nations.
What's going on in the eastern nations, China particularly, is you can see the future of these processes that I'm very concerned about
in countries where effectively something resembling totalitarian rule is the primary agenda.
There's all kinds of new systems and features emerging, particularly in China, other countries like North Korea,
where the computing technologies are being used to categorize, segregate, dominate, influence, and conscript vast populations of humans.
But it won't end there.
The devastating repercussions of psyops, right, psychological operations on human populations, are already being felt around the world.
And as I said, we'll continue to increase at an exponential pace that it's impossible for ordinary humans to evade.
So it seems to me we must either depart completely from the technological facade.
Even that won't help us because the effects are going to be worldwide.
Essentially there will be nowhere to hide in pretty short order.
But we must either depart completely from that, or we must establish altruistic, humaneering systems like the knowledge amp that absolutely protect our analytics from being captured.
And this is one of my dreams, though it's a dangerous and sort of diamonic dream, because it involves using the technologies presently at play to oppose what I've been speaking about at length here and in other videos I've made.
The components of the knowledge amp are a browser that works more like our minds.
It uses our analytics to produce extremely useful and opportunistically oriented results from any interaction with data at all.
It's driven by a collection of personal analytics that may include biometric data such as heart rate, respiration, pupil dilation, so forth.
But the data is never held anywhere but with the person.
There might be a device on which our analytics are stored.
That's a layered array of analytics that includes our social behavior.
Those analytics are strongly encrypted and inaccessible.
There's a barrier between us and the outside internet so that all of our interactions with it are negotiated tracelessly through that barrier.
So we have a browser that works more like our minds and will allow us to learn astonishing things every time we interact with anything.
There's the data cache, which I call the CAW.
There's a verity sentinel that allows us to intelligently vet information for origin, verity, reliability, a verity sentinel, I call it.
And there's a social networking aspect that allows us to form highly intelligent, effective teams to solve problems together and compete in that environment anonymously through the ages of avatars linked to our analytics storage.
And this would produce income for everyone if income is still important anymore.
And there are a couple of other features just to give a brief overview.
The analytics store turns out to be the most important thing.
We would be able to produce analytics for anyone who's ever written anything or left records so that we could search the internet as Einstein or as any number of famous minds, authors, so on.
Using AI to create an analytic image of minds in the past and minds in the present.
So in a sense you'd be able to switch personalities, right?
Let me search the internet as if I were Einstein or Isaac Newton or...
Well anyone you might think of, Lynn Margolis.
And we could even link them together and search as a team of people.
So the possibilities are quite astonishing, but it seems very unlikely that something like what I'm describing will arise.
We must together resist the collapse of our privacy into slavery.
If we are to be human at all, we must have a way to know that we're not being observed in our communications behavior, in our private behavior.
We must have the freedom from malignant observation that is rapidly becoming the dominant feature of our common daily experience.
And if we do not together develop systems that protect the sacred right of privacy,
then the systems that use our analytics opportunistically to divide and enslave, to fragment,
and deprive us of hope and wonder and play and awe will become the future of our species very quickly.
I think our hope doesn't necessarily lie in radical transformation of the species of humans, though this may come through catastrophe.
It lies primarily in the assembly of small, highly effective, intelligent teams,
altruistically motivated to explore and discover the potentials that have been buried by representational cognition and the simulated cognisium of the humans.
So there's a heroic path within this nightmare for those of us willing to set out upon it.
And if you are one of those people, I hope that you will get in touch,
because we must find a way past the prison nearing nightmare that we're presently hurtling toward as a species and as individuals.
We must retain privacy and protect it and understand in a very deep way, diagnostically, what happens when it's lost or stolen.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
And if you enjoy my recordings, I ask that you like them, share them, reach out.
And if you're willing, support me on Patreon. I can use all the help I can get.
Thank you very much. Bye-bye for now.
