Hi, thanks for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson. This is my YouTube channel. You
can find me on Facebook under my name in San Francisco on the web at wondercloud.wordpress.com
and on my own website with some relatively old material on organelle.org. There's some
interesting things there nonetheless. What I want to talk about right now is I'm actually
just wanting to sketch to myself these ideas. So please bear with me because they're informed.
I've been looking for a long time to talk about the difference between what makes mankind,
our species, either natural or unnatural since all of nature is, well, we can't really say that.
We can't really say that we're natural or unnatural since nature is everything. And yet,
it seems that we are in conflict with nature fundamentally. Now, in discussion with a friend
of mine recently, he reminded me that it's a false distinction. You can't separate out the
activity of human beings and say that that's unnatural since nature is everything and it
must include all of the activity within it. I can't escape it and pretend that you're
working from outside and he's right. He's right. We can't. But what we can do is make a subset of
nature and call that something like a biosphere. An animal's activity can be in conflict with its
biosphere in such a way that one or the other will perish if the animal doesn't change its
behavior because a biosphere like a human body is a very sophisticated network of relationships
that are anciently evolved. And they are also modernly evolving. So there's this there's this
wave sort of this pulsing rhythm of ancient development and structure. And then there's this
input of this kind of novelty, possibility feedback from current situations. This moment,
these contexts that change the meaning of those established standards as we think of them. And
so life is constantly reforging itself in the image of the direction of this moment, this context
and what we can understand as being ahead of us and behind us. Now there are ways in which time
speaks back to the future, speaks back to the past from the future. And that life is sensitive to
and can understand and vice and there are ways that the future speaks far into the past. Similarly,
now because time is not linear in the way that we imagine it, those ways are models and they're
incomplete. And organisms are more complete than models. My point really here is that
I've been looking for a model that talks about how human behavior and actually human intelligence
are against the purposes of life and intelligence. Now how could that be?
It goes against everything we believe and much of what we're taught, but it is very possible. In
fact, I believe it's a fact. It's easily demonstrable, meaning we can demonstrate it and witness it
objectively all around us whenever we want to. So let me talk a little bit about a few things.
First of all, I think if we imagine that a human conception event has occurred
and sperm are now traveling by the hundreds of thousands or millions toward the egg,
we imagine that we imagine them as as competing individuals.
But we sort of forget that they come from one individual, so to speak, who's actually the
representative of a vast ocean of people. So that individual is raised up on their work and
relationships. And this individual has impregnated a woman or is about to and then the sperm are on
the way. And we imagine that just one of them wins, that lucky individual, that sovereign king.
Actually, it's more like Robin Hood who wins. And when Robin Hood wins, the king is deposed and all
of the people are then proxied in an empty throne, an empty throne like
like the woman's womb, like the space on the page, like space itself.
Now Earth is not an empty womb. She's a living womb. She's filled. She's a strange sort of womb
whose children occur on her surface. And we like their greatest and most noble contender,
the avatar of Earth's biological history and relational dreaming.
And not not not not 3.5 billion years of life.
Because we have to multiply that by each of the individual elements
so that we could understand in this in a very simple way, if we take one person,
run them around the sun, one time on a planet, that's one life year, one human life year.
We all understand that one year. Well, when we say the earth is 3.5 billion years old,
we don't mean that. Because there wasn't one person on the earth going on.
One, two, three. There were thousands or unthinkable numbers, myriads of life forms together and all
of their relationships and all the interrelationships and all the reflections and the and the and the
and the and going around the sun each time. So just to be to make a really flat example that we
can understand easily, one person going around the sun one time is one life year of evolutionary
history. 7 billion humans going around the sun one time is 7 billion years of evolutionary history,
because they're all individuals, they all have a year of themselves of evolution. And then they
also have the magnified evolutionary effort of their relationships, right, which is really where
the money is, so to speak, evolutionarily, it's in all those relationships, because those are what
translate into changes, growth, education, especially for people like us, a species like us,
where we've translated much, if not all of our physical, not all, we've translated large portions
of our physical, what might have been physical evolution for us, and also relational evolution
for other creatures into machines and demonstrate that in a minute. And so we kind of gave up on
that we developed technologies, we've shunted our evolutionary momentum and the momentum of the
planet since we're the, we're sort of the evolutionary hero of Earth, we really are. They
lifted us up, I'll show you that in a minute. And then we shunted all that evolutionary momentum
of the planet while we assassinated them from above, by the way, with all of our machines.
We shunted that into massive spawning of technologies and little devices and ideas and
photographs and every kind of representation of excellence that we will not become, we just
refuse to be coming all together. We have sports teams, right, that compete for incredible,
like world heroism over nothing, nothing, or they went intelligence, a future for mankind,
a planet we could survive on. Did they stop one whale death? Did they save one prairie?
No, but, but thousands of fans will kill each other in the aftermath over
what exactly? The representations that we love so much. The automobile that sleeps in a warm
garage every night while 50 children die starving and the automobile is worth enough to feed them
all for the rest of their lives. Really? All right. I think I understand. So there's a problem
around here. The problem is that the humans can do something that no other animal can and so they
can be something that no other animal would. And they think we think that we're intelligent and
I'm going to try to demonstrate that our intelligence is very peculiar because it's
misfiring catastrophically. In fact, it will turn the remaining biologies of our world into a
snuff film in about five minutes if we don't stop it right now together and change the whole
vector of our behavior. We've become catastrophically confused. And not only that, we're sure that we're
not only are we sure we're not confused, we're basically sure that we're gods.
And so every time we make a mistake, we just kind of stomp our foot and make it harder just to kind
of show the world and the sky that nothing can stop us. I think I'm going to explain why that's a
problem in a very clear way that everyone can understand and few people are going to be able to
argue with. We tend to think of evolution as raising single winners. That's not what happens.
What happens is that populations raise heroes, reproductive heroes. And populations are groups
and they can be very small. They can be just a few people, right? A family will raise a hero.
Not everyone in the family is a hero, but if they stick together as a family and support
the heroes and the structure and then the heroes support the weaker members and actually lift them
up, right? To either equality or above the heroes, to adoration and reverence. Then we have
intelligence. Then we have humanity and we have something like the planet earth, which did that
with us. They took the disadvantaged kid, right? And they said, we're going to the whole living
planet. They didn't do this like a thought. They did it just as a living system. Yeah,
as a living organism, a super organism. They raised us up on their backs of the backs of
their deaths and their suffering and their dreams and so much as all the animals and
beings that are alive have dreams and they do. You can watch them dreaming, but they also have
dreams in the sense that they know the difference between justice and injustice in a universal
sense that's non-verbal. They know the difference between excellence and falsehood lies. They
know the difference. If you pretend you're going to pet them and then you crush them,
they know the difference. Every animal knows that difference. It doesn't take any kind of,
you know, sophisticated representational system to understand that. So the sperm that wins in
the conception is actually the one that was raised on the backs of all the others. That's their hero.
And so in a sense, 10 million beings will die to raise that one being to incredible opportunity
that will be born into the world as a human or animal. In a world 3.5 billion years old,
trillions of amazingly ramified life years old, basically a star, a shining invisible star of
relational intelligence. In every way, not merely the equivalent of the sun,
but its crown, its crowning glory. This world is the hero of our solar system in the sense of
we are the living world. And so even we represent this idea that I'm talking about that a pod raises
up a hero. And then the other members support it. And this body here is their unity, the body of
their unity. This is intelligence, actually not this. It's where they connect and how they connect
and how they can change and connect and interrelate in ways that are unexpectedly sophisticated.
Or they can fight. They can pretend that they're not unities. But if this finger fights this finger,
yeah, the hand is useless. And that's what we're up to, actually, both with our own people
and in nature. And that's confusing. Here's how that happens.
First of all, we tend to think about our species as intelligent, but we're not. We are
representationally sophisticated. That means we can make technologies that represent the world and
its forces in our minds that represent each other and ourselves in our minds. We can think about
thinking we are homo sapiens sapiens, we know that we know, or we stutter about knowledge is
actually kind of a clearer truth. Now, what happens in nature that we've got to stop immediately
is I'm going to make a little model of you can imagine a crazy animal
that grabs up a bunch of the relational and evolutionary momentum and then pulls that back
into its intelligence like a slingshot and then just goes rushing forward into a brick wall. Blam,
as hard as it can. Normally, this animal would be killed the first time it did that. And every
animal that tried that again would die. So they wouldn't reproduce and you just, nature wouldn't
allow that. She just doesn't let that fly. The reason we can get away with it is the nature of
this wall that we're smashing into. And mostly we're not doing it to grow or progress or learn.
We're just doing it because we're both like kind of angry and we're sort of frightened and we're
afraid of what our actual identity on earth is and that and also what that would mean for our
history, how we would see our history if we saw something more like our identity, which is the
hero of the animal universe and the human universe, both. So it's like the solar system universe and
it's the terrestrial universe of life on earth that lifted our species up literally above it.
Part of us likes to think so and part of us wants to say we're just animals.
Actually, we're a very, very special animal in the same way that neurons in our bodies and in the
world are very, very special cell. Neurons, the specific kinds we have in our guts, by the way,
and our brains. These are kind of a heroic sort of cell that's similar to us in the world.
You wouldn't want to just say, well, those are just another cell. Those are the basis of brains on
earth. All of them, they're not an accident. And the ones that we have are really peculiar because
they can do this thing that I'm doing. And they can make strange waves in the relational space
that are highly articulate and mechanical almost like we do. We call them machines. There have
never been waves like that in the relational space before. There never were cages before
we began to think. And our thinking is a form of making cages inside ourselves that we reflect
things into and then try to trap them there. So it's not too surprising that we then kind of
cage the world and we view the world in that modality, but that's not that's not our nature.
Our nature is to have been lifted up to impossible evolutionary super function of
rocketing into evolutionary benefit and astonishing unthinkable progress and acceleration and
progress and acceleration in phases that just pulse like a heartbeat. And they grow geometrically
over time. That's what earth would do for us if we would let her. That's what she that's how we
she raised a step. She made this pulse of the evolutionary benefit over a period of time,
like a year, the seasonal cycle. And when that came back together around the end of the year,
we would receive the evolutionary benefit of having participated in all those relationships
intimately right now as beings, not as just thinking beings who make plans and machines and
try to take benefit out of it in ways that they can represent. No, as beings who become the
benefit in their own sophistication, intelligence, ability to see and express and be human together,
within for each other, not for machines, not for books, not for religions, not for science,
within for each other and other living beings together, understanding and learning and growing
together, because we realize that the living places and the living beings
literally lifted us up. And so we now have the responsibility to co lift them, not to protect
them. They they exist in their own right to protect them would already be to admit we are wrong.
Yeah, no, to not molest them, first of all, to to unmolest them, and then to to also to raise
them through us being noble in our relations with them and true, rather than giving word, you know,
taking lots of pictures and saying we like the animals while the pictures that we are taking.
And we are copying the pictures and backing them up and transmitting them
thousands of billions of times per hour, which is actually sucking the life out of our world
in order for us to take more pictures and back them up and copy them and track them and trace
them and see if it needs to be arrested and all of that kind of thing. Now, what used to happen
is the world would pulse at the end of the season, the evolutionary benefit would be shared among
all the beings they would skyrocket up developmentally, we would be lifted up representationally and in
terms of our insight about the world and ourselves and the sky and the cosmos and the sources of
knowledge and the sources of intelligence that inform this conversation right now, rather than
we have something written down in a book where this is a speech, right? This is like a song I am
singing from my heart. It's not a speech. And so these pulses would happen and there are many pulses
each day as the pulse each breath each heartbeat and all the beings are pulsing together in this way
and it's all being shared and linking together and magnifying in a kind of intelligence that is
invisible and unspoken, but every being is receiving the benefits until that is all shattered by
terror. And how does that get shattered by terror? Well, you lift up a hero and then the hero from
above you just starts attacking you with lightning, right? Down and killing everything and saying,
you're just machines, you're just objects, right? You don't really exist, you animal, living place,
beings, you oceans, you skies, you're just things, no one can prove you have minds, no one can prove
you have souls. We can do as we wish with you. You're so big, you'll just heal back over again.
It's like a pinprick to you, right? Well, it is until there's a billion of us.
And all of our machines. And so again, we have this animal that's just pulling back the evolutionary
power of the world and their own species. And then just mostly out of hubris and kind of a
temper tantrum of fear of what their actual the beauty and power of our actual role might be
just makes a boatload of machines and then runs, you know, launches the slingshot that it's pulled
and just smashes into the planet as hard as it can. And that that harm echoes out and is absorbed
all over the world. Instead of being destroyed by the first shot like that, the beings actually
slightly strengthened and the planet takes a huge hit and dies. And then they pull it back faster,
boom, and they pull it back faster, boom. And the planet is dying in ways, boom, who as their hero
above them is attacking them from above, wasting the cetacean mind networks of the oceans.
The insect networks that supply the pollens for food on earth, which are the living intelligence
elements, you know, the gaps in our neurons are like the gaps between flowers. So we've poisoned
all the pollens, which would be effectively like the human metabolic metaphor would be if we poisoned
all our neurotransmitters, so that transmitting them destroyed neurons or misprogrammed them
wildly. Could that produce analogs of many of the relational and cognitive diseases we see today?
Could, I'm not saying it does. Maybe it does. There is a link, you know, between what we do
in the world and our minds. And I'm trying to show that it's much more intimate that we think
and it's up to the moment. It's not cause and effect. Our minds rise in this moment from this
pulsing. Yeah. So if it's all broken by assault and poison and noise and dead terrain and machines
and toxicity and radiation, if it's all shattered by shipping and explosive radar,
which we use to map the oceans, but it shatters the minds of any cetacean creature in your shot,
which could be hundreds of miles in some cases. We're using that to map people. I'd be like mapping
your daughter with a shotgun and then say, well, it's really important that we get her blood type.
Really? How important could it be? Is it so important that we learn about the bottom of the ocean,
that we snuff life on earth? See, this is the problem. We've, we don't understand this process. We don't
realize that over a year, a forest generates an incredible amount of evolutionary benefit
that if you were to, to try to represent it in dollars, it would be more money than humans have
ever imagined in one year, any forest, like a small forest. But we'll burn that down for $50
one time. And here's what happens. First of all, we're attacking the basis of our own intelligence
and relational intelligence and unspoken intelligence, which is purposive. It's why we do things.
We're attacking all those bases in their roots. And then we're claiming to be gods. They actually
lifted us to that position. So we're sinking as we're attacking them. And our intelligence is
plummeting, which, which makes us less likely to see all this or be able to say it or know it
or do anything about it. We'll just think, you know, the more that we attack them, the smarter
we will think we are, the more machines we get, the more war we make on everything. But first,
on our intelligence, because it's based on all the living networks and their pulse,
is the source of what raises us up. So here's what I want to make really clear.
Um, for about the past 200 years, maybe a little longer, but not much longer,
we've been enough of a force that the blows we're punching into the ecosystem that now probably
thousands of times per second could be absorbed and life could survive and our intelligence
could survive. And so we had kind of a shot, you know, at actually becoming
the avatar of terrestrial intelligence. And by the way, I want to explain something.
Because we've been so interested in representations and all of our mechanical things,
we missed the game. The game of intelligence doesn't look like anything like what we're playing with
frozen things in books. It looks like the sun, it looks like shocking explosions of
almost unsurvivable leaps of just unthinkable progress that happened if we just,
if we could just shave off like a third of the representational noise in machine
nonsense and chotch keys, and they're all the little things that we mess around with instead
of our roles and instead of purpose and the intelligence of having mutually beautiful
purposes that we all agree to, because they're just, they're so amazing that no one wouldn't
agree, you know, like lift each other up. We could do that. We can all do that. That's why we came.
That's what we're all hoping for. We can do that. We've been told we can't. We think human history
means we can't. It's really just wrong. We can just do it. We can do it now. And we can do it in
ways that are so shocking that they actually let this process happen. They just allow it, right?
I'm not saying we need to do anything extra. If we'll just allow the planet to be unmolested
and pulse, it just raises us up naturally to shocking levels of evolutionary intelligence
that we've never seen. The reason is we've been chopping, we've been burning that process down
as fast as we can and building cars and tomahawk missiles and drones and, you know,
NSA surveillance sites and billions of computers and smartphones and things.
Those represent something that we've lost. The internet is actually like a Barbie doll
of terrestrial hyper cognition or, you know, the level above our intelligence so vastly that it
would burn ours to touch it. And we can, like a whale, we can kind of go, and this is what we've
been doing throughout our evolutionary history. We're touching that high-frequency intelligence
of the whole planet and we're taking tiny bits of it down and inventing technology which lowers it.
And then we rise up and touch it again and we steal some of that and it shrinks and we shrink.
And meanwhile our machines explode in their populations. You've probably heard
all kinds of arguments about human population growth problems, etc.
How many arguments have you heard about machine growth?
Machine populations. Did you hear any? Did anyone who argued against children having babies?
Excuse me. Even once arguing against them having machines.
So similarly, when we've been doing this representational game, we've been being
broken apart by it so that not only is our relationship with the planet
being used backwards against us, right? They're raising us up to attack what's raising us up.
And we think that's intelligence. That's the opposite of intelligence. And by the way,
the envelope of the planetary atmosphere reflects light. So what that means is like you're not
in your bedroom at home torturing the animals. Actually anything that reads light in all of
space knows exactly what the humans are doing because the way that light is reflected from
the envelope of our world essentially just announces it like a book. And so if anything
is stopping by and I'm not claiming that anything is, but if they are, the signal that they're
getting is, well, I'm not going to be so cruel as to make it as ugly as it is. Let's just say
it's incredibly unthinkably terrifying to any being that understands relational intelligence
because it means that the heroes become a rapist and thinks they are a god. And it's just gone haywire
and is actually in a mad attempt to burn the planet down. Meanwhile, many of their prophets
and wisest people are telling them that things are getting better or that things are okay.
And they're scared people are making paranoid fantasies that compete with the attention we
need to actually solve the simple problems with our own intelligence. All of our problems are there
with our intelligence that they're not anywhere else. So we need to go there first. How can we
become intelligent? And the way we can become intelligent is by understanding the dangers of
representation, how to leverage those into impossible evolutionary potentials, and then
just start writing those right out of that habit immediately. And it'll happen instantly. This will
be an overnight kind of change that we can leverage and make happen in a month or one year around the
world. We need to understand how biocognition works, how biorelation, biorelational intelligence
is set up. It's not a spiritual thing. It's not a religion. It has to do with things we know about
science, but mostly it's what we know about from just being alive. As animals in nature, the things
we feel and know immediately when we sense them. It doesn't require complex arguments. It doesn't
we are organs of this world the same way I'm an organ of my mother's body. I grew up inside her.
There's no other way around it. And that means all of the animals and all of the
intelligences here raise each other. There's no other way around that they're not individuals
competing. They're competing to lift one another. As soon as we realize that and realize that we
were lifted to intelligence by the incredible diversity and thriving myriad swarming intelligences
of the animal and insectival and bacterial world, as soon as we understand that we'll stop attacking
it. The moment that happens we'll stop attacking each other and we'll stop having this idea that
we're individuals in competition because we're in competition the way my fingers are in competition,
literally. We should make little pods that are intimately connected for mutually beneficial,
beautiful purposes of learning, development, growth, not material wealth, relational wealth,
the intensity, the beauty of this palm thing that we don't even count by the way you ever
notice that. One, two, three, four, five. We didn't count this because for humans with our
representational systems this doesn't much count new. It is the idea. The idea gets a lot of air
play but not much heart play. So if we keep pounding with our technological and representational
swarming, draining away the living intelligence of earth and is producing these representations
and photographs and endless little pieces of data and all new kinds of ways of story and relating
them, our minds are dying right now and our world is in grave danger. The ecosystems themselves are
in grave danger. All of the animalian bodies on the planet have been impregnated with essentially
industrial toxins that are both, they damage nervous systems which are the basis of our minds
and they damage our hormonal metabolism and make us vulnerable to all kinds of
problems. Meanwhile, the conceptual environment we live in is destroying us as individuals and as
human cultures and that's why we're fighting against collectives who are trying to crush us.
It's the same thing. We raised them up, we raised up our heroes and in a collective way the same
many animals did with us and they're trying to crush us. So we're just living out what we're
doing in the biosphere, in our own minds and in our own cultures. Now the indigenous people knew
all of this in their own way. We don't want to just bring their knowledge back. We need to come
way beyond ahead of that. They failed too. They couldn't stop us. Did any of them win in stopping
us? No. And they had their own problems too. Let's not forget. These people were just as confused
as we are in their own ways even though they were probably a lot more in touch with the living
intelligence that we're immersed in. I want to say one more thing. We keep looking to the sky for
for alien intelligence. I want to tell you bluntly, I know a lot about intelligence right here on earth
and there's a language of intelligence here that humans don't speak. It's the language of purpose.
Purpose. Why a creature is in a place doing a thing, being itself at a given time.
That's those are the sort of outer skin of the purpose. And creatures and places themselves
know then speak this language, this language of purposive relation. Humans don't speak it.
They don't recognize it. They can't read it in nature or each other in general. There are
exceptions. Mothers are better at it and babies are pros. Young children can know all about this
language and they learn to forget it when they learn this one. And each of these languages
builds a mind in its image even though Sapir Worf has supposedly been disproven. We've missed the
boat on that one. Languages do assemble minds in their image. Their connotation libraries
and their metaphors both make for different minds because we use metaphors to see internally.
That's why I'm trying to make these ones here today. Now, when I say that there's
intelligences in the world that we can touch, I really mean it. I mean, your mind was meant to in
some way co-participate with webs of anciently involved intelligence and to learn with and
for them in a way where there's a wave that you send out to them and then they send out a wave of
benefit back to you and this just keeps going back and forth and it speeds up over time until it
becomes basically just a flow back and forth. And this is what was what our ancestors were doing
and that's how we became intelligent. But then at some point we, you know, from above or from
our pyramid of knowledge from the top, we started attacking the bottom bricks as we destroyed them
and we're getting very close to being done destroying the bottom bricks. We kept shrinking
and not noticing because they had raised the stuff to see with. So as we attack them, we can't see,
we're attacking our own eyes. They are outside us. They see us and that feeds back into us.
All the living beings, right? All the living places too. They sense us. We are part of their
body. And if we attack them, they see. And we know ourselves by projecting them back inside
ourselves in an imaginary reflection. So if we know we are attacking them, we can't be whole.
It's the same with other beings, other people. If we assemble ourselves in an imaginary amphitheater
of enemies and friends, heroes, admirers, and those who despise us. So if we attack and kill
other people and they are now in that amphitheater, we can't lie. This is why our soldiers are dying
when they come home from a war of PTSD. We can't lie. Our policemen are prison guards. We can't lie.
In ourselves, we know the truth because our subconscious mind, you know, this side of our
body, our right hemisphere, so to speak, although both sides are involved in the subconscious,
they can't lie. They know about all the theories and everything and the excuses and the arguments.
They don't believe any of them. And nature is the same way. She has purpose of intelligence. What we
say means nothing. Our theories mean nothing at all. You can throw them all away. It's what we do
with each other and in nature that is intelligence or is not. So if we sound very intelligent, we
have mathematics and physics that can make nuclear bombs, but we can't relate with organisms,
we're not yet intelligent and we're heading for a fall because we've been playing this game where
we pulled the evolutionary hammer of the gun back and instead of going forward up into super function
and then dragging all of the other animals with us, which was what we would do every year.
We've been slamming it into the world and going down every year with the same energy. So think
about this in a banking metaphor. This would be like you invest $10 so at the end of the year
you can have a huge party and burn 10 million. Or you invest $10 so at the end of the year
everyone on earth can have a huge party and become 15 times more intelligent and next year they'll
invest $12,000. For about a hundred years we've been doing the first one. We've been investing
$10 so we can burn 10 million at the end of the year just just us and nobody gets anything
and all their effort gets sparked and no one gets the investment value. We get war,
trillions of dollars which are actually that's actually the evolutionary
benefit of all of the living beings on earth being themselves, that those trillions of dollars
that we spend to blow each other up and irradiate the Middle East and destroy the the cradle of
civilization. We're intelligent. What exactly are we teaching in our universities? Could someone
remind me? How useful is mathematics with dead oceans? I'm just curious about that.
If we can't relate as human beings where is our intelligence? Going to space isn't going to help
us. In fact finding intelligences in space they're not going to be very interested in talking to us.
They're going to go talk to other creatures on earth who would be intelligent like I don't even
know dolphins, whales, octopuses, cephalopod spiders, praying mantises. They're not humans.
We're the ones who have poisoned the whole atmospheric envelope which is essentially
sent a message to everyone saying we like machines a lot and we're trying to become them
and we're going to send you some machine signals in case you'd like to come become
machines with us. Well nothing wants to do that. So there's this way that our intelligence can
actually attack its source. It's not unnatural because it's within nature but it's omnicidal
in that it assaults its own basis itself, all of its participants, all of its investments, all of its
futures for what? So let's stop punching the biosphere of intelligence and let's actually
maybe we can even stop pulling back and just pulling back the slingshot and just pause in our
molestation for one moment of each other, right? We could do that. We could just put like a hold
on molestation no more mutilating each other, no more destroying or decimating the planet for like
a little while and just see if we could what we could learn from that alone just from that moment
of silence in respect of all of the killing and loss and destruction and confusion that we've
called intelligence up till now and then we might have a chance to discover it because it looks like
little pods of people and beings like dolphin pods, right? You know a dolphin pod can be shattered
by the fear of a shark by the suggestion of a shark but when they are in unity they eat sharks
for lunch. Sharks will not go near them because a pod of dolphins is there's no shark strong enough
to take it and this is our nature and this is what we've been sold. This is slavery and prisons
and police. We become either the cops or the prisoners and of course the cops are the prisoners
that's the secret as our soldiers have found out, yeah. So you don't want that what you want is
pods going together in mutual uplift all over the world with living intelligences not machine
intelligences and more families than cars okay more living beings than representations and museums
and books and we can right now use the the effort that we are that we are spending the same way
we're spending it on learning on on sending emails and on the internet we can spend all of that
effort just by flipping a simple switch that builds these little pods we can spend that effort
to lift all of us because the way we're doing it currently is making us separated and ignorant
and it's blinding us further. Now if we continue to learn along the lines that I've just merely
suggested in this in this brief outline for which I thank you for your patience I think we're gonna
discover that we're surrounded by non-human intelligences that are a sophistication
we wouldn't survive encountering we're terrified of it they're deeper than our wildest science
fictions and they're right next to us in insects right where you're looking right where no one's
paying attention in a in our own hand there are secrets so astonishing that they could lead to
other stars by themselves in our hands we haven't taken a look at life we don't know what organisms
are we've got the wrong idea um earth is an impossibly advanced transcendent star of intelligence
and we've been playing with the excrement portion and painting in that with our faces
and killing everything that is producing all that intelligence and thinking all the time that we are
gods that's gotta stop we've got to find out what our real role is because it's so majestic
and amazing even if we just do it with each other that all of our fictions are boring in comparison
I promise you I know because I've tasted it let's no religions no science no books no paradigm
sales I promise you let's just find out what's going on around here together that's that's all
asking it's a simple proposition and let's pause on the mutilations the circumcisions of our children
in our minds um let's let's just put the pause button on destroying everything around us and
attacking everything that moves and calling it intelligence let's put the pause button on criticism
without intelligence that leads us back together let's put the pause on terror in our social media
and electronic media that doesn't draw us into intelligent um conversation and conversion
and wonder let's put the pause on uh really kind of insipid forms of culture that are incredibly
self-aggrandizing but they're just more fetishes and fashions for things we're not becoming together
let's put the pause on women as sexual objects let's put the pause on hatred because of how
we want to live my fingers need to be different if they were all the same or if I just had one
finger my hand would be useless in my body which is the actually the upper reflection of my hand
it's a similar structure would also be useless and I would be lousy as a teacher or a father or a man
or a lover or a creator or even a fisherman or a hunter or even a killer even a warrior a fighter
of just a an alcoholic I would even be a bad one so we can call each other to excellence
and that's the opportunity we have in every moment of communication and thought let's do
more of that let's do less of the other thing a little piece of the time I think it's something
we can agree to regardless of which book we believe in or don't it doesn't matter those questions
what matters is do we come together so that our diversity becomes power and lifts us all up
or do we just bounce off and attack each other and then the world so that we all go down in flames
you know it's okay to go down in flames if you're gonna rise up as a phoenix life itself is that
process yeah this is the very process we're talking about we're doing the other thing
we're just burning each other down out of hubris and confusion fear and terror and we're further
terrorizing and dividing each other that doesn't work let's take down the sharks starting now
I'm with you I'm on your side let's be on each other's sides within four each other
a lot of paradigms or sales people thank you please feel free to share this if you care too
bye bye for now
