Hello everybody. Thank you for joining me today. It's pretty cold outside and it's rainy,
so I have my my mic inside my hoodie, which is certain to make a little bit of noise.
I apologize in advance. Obviously, I can't detect it while I'm making the recording
and it's not a whole bunch I can do about it after the recording, but hopefully it won't
be too bad. It'll be uncommon. It's actually a beautiful day, even though it's cold and rainy.
Of course, what's beautiful or what has any quality at all depends kind of on how we're
in relation with it and the purposes, some of which will always be unconscious, but others
of which will be conscious or intentionally held purposes. And qualities depend for their
emergence into awareness. First on, I think, relation, but for thinking animals like us or
animals capable of thought, purpose, history, narrative, what we're thinking, the stories
we've been told and tell ourselves. These all have a profoundly determinative effect on the
qualities that we experience and think about. Now, of course, this is a complex situation and it's
one of gradients or degrees in that, obviously, no matter what we're thinking, there's a degree
where the quality we might derive is fairly concrete if I put my hand in water, for example,
or if I touch something very hot. And yet, the quality of hotness is more or less a cognitive
quality because if I were to touch something very hot, what I would experience first would just be
pain. And even pain, it turns out, though again, it's a matter of degree, is not a quality or
experience that can exist without someone experiencing what the word points toward. But
what the word points toward is never one thing. And this is one of the peculiar, actually bizarre
traps that we fall into with language. Pain will always refer to a vast constellation of things,
many of them are unknown, some might be unknowable, and any actual pain will be uniquely experienced.
And the experiencer themselves may or may not say that something is painful. They may or may not
choose that particular way of referencing, referring to the experience that they're having.
And of course, all things are relative. If one is in a lot of pain, and suddenly one is in a lot
less pain, that would be a great relief. Similarly, hot is relative to the context. If the context is
a million degrees, then 1000 degrees, which would normatively for us seem to be extremely hot,
is really mild, maybe even cool. So these qualities and the language that we use to refer to them
are very deceptive if we look more deeply into the experience of living beings. And the way that we
think of and apply qualities is so primitive for most of us, most of the time, that we're almost
always wrong. In the sense of if we took a broad and intelligent sampling of a phenomenon, and we
looked at it from many different perspectives rather than just one, we would see that the one
commonly on offer is at best confused, and often wrong because it presumes singleness or absoluteness.
Many of our most foundational concepts and ideas are like this. They present as a one pointed, one
dimensional, concrete thing. And there is no instance of that existing anywhere in reality. It's an idea.
It's a concept. In other words, it's a cognitive perspective. And that can have emotional aspects
and embodied aspects. But we are a very unique animal because whether or not other animals are
representationally sentient, and it appears that some of them express capabilities that imply they
are, they're not in the same way we are. I'm sure there'd be some crossover. But for us, a universe
of verbal and conceptual fictions is in direct competition with our felt senses, our essence,
our organs, our body, our soma, and perhaps our souls. But this is the direction I'm pointing when
I use the word essence. And so we live in this really strangely stratified conflict where on the
upper level, so to speak, at least while we're awake, we have this historically developed and
conserved array of biases, suppositions, beliefs, language, concepts, models, theories, proofs,
traditions. A good example would be mankind is here to conquer nature. We have to conquer things.
Or we are the most advanced animal on the planet. Well, you could find a domain in which that's true,
but you could find a thousand where it isn't. Or is even the opposite of the truth.
So we have myths, right? And many of them have to do with what's natural or normal.
But most of these myths and traditions and ideas and concepts, they're the produce
of the aspect of our being that is more or less disembodied and might actually prefer to be entirely
disembodied. Hence our technological fascination with what we refer to, I think very confusedly,
as artificial intelligence, completely disembodied, cognitive-like processes.
And then we think, oh, well, let's bring them back into, let's just keep rolling it over, right?
We'll bring the the AIs into the body so that now they're partly embodied, disembodied processes.
And that's something like what's happened with our cognition and our relationships
with language and knowledge over time.
So we're a really complex, strange animal. We've developed a very powerful
imaginal array of prostheses, tools, devices. And they are astonishing in their capacity to endow us
with the ability to manipulate force, context, the environment,
mass, space, light, electromagnetic forces. And we've certainly accomplished seemingly
astonishing but incredibly dangerous things with the results of having developed this way.
But underneath the vast stratifications of our inherited cognitive and technological
histories and traditions and myths, there's an ocean, or oceans within oceans,
of unimaginably ancient intelligence and sophistication.
The origins of the unimaginable complexity of our bodies, even if measured only over a millionth
of a second. I would argue that there's more intelligence in that activity over a millionth
of a second in our bodies than there is in the entire cognitive and representational
history of our species, including all of our computation.
Underneath the strata, the organism we are, the human beings we are, the essence of our being,
whatever that may be or not be, these things are suffering the impositions
of formal representational cognition on our minds and world.
Now, of course, we don't have to live in this kind of conflict, we inherit it.
And the fact that we're very, we're capable of advanced representational cognition doesn't mean
that the shadows of those assets must dominate our lives or hearts or world or bodies.
Yet, for the moment, they mostly do. Our hearts and minds and bodies live
and are capable of expression primarily under the domination
of the stratified layers of inherited cognitive activity and myths and imperatives and so on.
And for, I think nearly all of us, that's a relatively suffocating situation.
It would be as if the tip of my pinky dominated my entire body,
and the tip of my pinky was really interested in getting rid of the rest of that stuff.
It's astonishing how modest, in comparison, the relatively tiny advancements of our
cognitive and representational nature are, in comparison to the staggering brilliance
that our bodies and minds and perhaps our souls are living expressions of moment to moment.
And it turns out that the way we're in relation with that strata,
the structured ideas and language and concepts is really badly broken. And it's broken in such a way
that the assets that comprise those traditions and behaviors are actually themselves suffering.
They're suffering from loss of contact with their own origins.
They're suffering from the felt necessity to dominate and dismiss
our essence, our organismal nature, our animal nature, our human nature,
and even our social nature. So it's as if an angry and confused teenager
got a hold of all of the family assets and was willing to expend all of them
in a bid to dominate their future, maybe even expend its own life. It's not clear that
the strange game we're engaged in isn't self-terminating. It looks like it is.
The disembodied aspects that result in our technologies, war, our societies,
and that are embodied in them are not there to succeed. They're there to continue the process
of their development, survival, authorization, domination, and quote unquote success.
But that success doesn't mean to succeed at what they were forged for. It means to succeed
at growing and dominating more terrain, acquiring more power, assets, resources, attention, and so on.
So that means that our institutions, much like
goodly portions of our cognitive and representational inheritance,
are effectively malignant. And so it's no mystery why they don't work the way they're supposed to,
quote unquote, or the way we imagine they should be proceeding,
the way we imagine they should be capable of solving or responding to problems.
They actually only use the minimal amount of that capacity required for them to survive,
to reproduce, and to gain what you might think of as
a good position in the market of things the humans will sustain and support and buy into.
So it's a bit like we're being ridden by
a swarm of different kinds of demons. They arise pretending to heroism.
Once established, they primarily pursue the goals of domination, success, subterfuge,
hiding that fact. And you can see this in all of our institutions, our medical institutions,
our government scientific institutions, academia, social institutions.
They tend to work just barely good enough. Meanwhile, they're proliferating wildly and
absorbing vast quantities of commodities and resources and living beings, living places,
the origin, organs of life and intelligence in our world.
A troubling situation, less troubling if we're not aware of some of the foundations of it.
And I think they relate very deeply to the schism
that has arisen between our nature as representational cognitive animals
and our nature as animals, organisms, and beings in general.
When I began this talk today, I was thinking about a peculiar problem with categories
and qualities. I was thinking about the way that
when a quality such as this is warm transforms to this is cold, the heat is not gone.
Rather, it seems the domain of its expression has changed from
highly local as in a candle flame to vastly distributed and thus invisible.
Now, the heat from the candle flame does really strange things in the environment,
of course, depending on how the environment is, depending on the context. But even in a still room,
the heat from the candle, though no longer brightly generated by its flame once it is extinguished,
is all throughout the room. And if the candle is not completely consumed,
then the heat is in the potential within the candle. Now, both of those, the distribution in the room
and the potential in the candle, are invisible to us. We might be able to calculate them using
what we've learned of physics and math. We might even be able to simulate what happens
with the heat in the room, the heat from the candle when we extinguish it.
But we can't know the actual state of these phenomenon because its complexity
is far greater than any capacity we have to analyze it. And it's vastly more
significant than anything that can easily be framed in language. In other words,
language and theory cannot fully encompass it. Language and theory are incomplete.
If we shrink the context, language and theory begin to look more complete as we narrow the context.
And this is part of how scientific research proceeds. We try to exclude as much of everything
as we can get away with. And then we can more concretely distinguish
elements we wish to observe, analyze, transform, so on.
But almost everywhere, we first have to get rid of most of what's going on,
you know. And often, especially in biology, this involves killing what we're trying to observe.
And you can see here the hallmark of the problem. In the desire to measure, analyze, quantify,
we're taking away something, some kind of heat is being, or energy is being transformed into another form.
And in this case, it's a kind of a skeletal thing. It's the dead remains of what we originally
intended to analyze in order to acquire mechanical understanding of properties familiar to us.
Properties we've set out to distinguish, highlight, prioritize, and measure.
So I was thinking about how
when someone or something disappears from somewhere,
they don't actually go into nothing. They appear somewhere else, or transformations of their
previous state appear somewhere else. And I was just, I was thinking in terms of,
you know, we can look at this in a very simple way. Think about the sun.
The sun's blatantly obvious to all of us, even those who don't have eyes, can feel their heat.
It's heat. And when the sun, quote unquote, goes away in the evening,
it necessarily appears, you know, light rises somewhere else. And instead of it being like
an on-off switch, it's a continuum, right? First, there's a very small degree of light.
Dawn begins, the first glimmers of the rising of the sun.
And strangely, with this particular example, it's both a gradient and a continuum.
The sun disappearing here happens over a relatively slow amount of time,
though it can be very surprising how quickly it grows dark
once the sun actually gets near the horizon or sets.
So the disappearance of the light from my locality
is the appearance of the light in another locality. And this is the thing I'm trying
to explore about qualities and transformations.
Because our thinking, the way we're trained to think, the way we are habitually taught to
relate with language and concepts like qualities,
tends to be very crude. It tends to be bipolar, single-pointed, mono-dimensional.
That is a tree, right? That is cold. That is hot. That is bright. That is dark.
That is beautiful. That is ugly.
Yet none of these qualities are really intrinsic to any phenomenon that I understand.
Because for them to emerge, to comment or awareness,
there must be a mind. And the mind has to be somehow engaged with phenomenon.
Yes, the sheet of paper looks white, but is that true?
Without my mind, the sheet of paper has no look. In fact, there is no sheet of paper.
So it's just important to understand that qualities arise as a result of relation
with embodied animals, living places, senses, beings.
And also with our peculiar cognitive nature and its priorities.
And one of the things I was pointing out earlier is that it's as if part of our being
broke away from the rest. And like a disembodied satellite wants to orbit it,
constantly commenting, analyzing, criticizing,
investing and divesting, fighting and welcoming.
According to its peculiar damage, according to the strange damage,
it seems to have acquired when it first began to break away,
when it first began to conflict directly with our nature as beings, animals and humans.
One way of thinking about it is that there was a kind of an accident,
and I have a few narratives and stories about that that I find fascinating.
But we all experienced a recapitulation of this process when we were little,
when we were being enlanguaged and enculturated, when we began to become concerned about being able
to speak and write and use numbers to analyze, to argue, to form opinions and beliefs.
And when I speak of those things, I speak primarily of the representational shadows
of those things. And those shadows are far more thin and vulnerable than they appear.
Most of our simplistic theories and ideas about nature, our minds, our emotional selves,
our bodies, are for all their seeming advancement if we compare them to certain
historical situations and contexts. They're incredibly crude and certainly mostly
are less than one percent true-ish. We'll settle for a very low-grade truth most of the time
when we're depending on the cognitive and linguistic prostheses that we've developed
and have become almost invisible to us. One moment.
We're so used to depending on them and there's a very complex network of authorization
schemas that underlie how we use language, how we think about identity and quality and being.
And some of these things are so sophisticated that it's very difficult to model them or speak
intelligently about them in ordinary language. But our ideas and beliefs, our analyses and
measurements depend on both purposive schemas, what our intentions are, why we're interested,
and also authorization schemas. These can include biases, myths, truisms, tropes, colloquialisms,
and so on. And many of those things are at least as primitive as the kind of confusion we imagine
when we use the word superstition. We've just exchanged metaphysical superstitions for conceptual
and linguistic superstitions in the same way that we've exchanged something like the worship of gods
for the worship of nations or sports teams or influencers or actors and actresses or artists
Um, there's a lot of this kind of, uh, underhanded exchange, right, kind of counterfeiting.
We think we got rid of superstitions, no, we hid them in representations and myths and theories.
Just as the insight of Darwin's evolutionary theories were hidden in the effulgence of arguments
about the proper naturalness of the strongest competitors winning at all costs.
Um, even our science is not immune to being captured and co-opted by the strange factory
of disembodied thinking, quote unquote, priorities, activities, imperatives,
and these are imperatives like war.
In the modern milieu, there's nearly no possible justification for war.
But many of our institutions are like this, war stands out as one of the primary
unnecessary tragedies resulting at least in part from our incredible confusion.
That happens once we begin to form up to fight or argue.
There are, of course, exceptions.
But we are fighting wars, our nations, our institutions, are fighting wars of their own
invention, wars that are invented just to keep the institutions hungry, entrenched, powerful, and dominant.
So in a way, our own individual minds are a bit like those of our societies.
They're haunted by ghosts of ideas and theories and language and so on.
And most of that stuff is of such poor quality that if you could actually see what's directly
available, given the assets and nature of our humanity, you'd never touch that other stuff.
We're only very rarely, and when it was really important, we'd use it more like a very dangerous
tool that we're extremely cautious of rather than like a courtroom of authorization
and ignorance masquerading as expertise.
And I am subject to all these things I speak of.
My own mind is thus, and I struggle, believe me, with the issues I orbit in my talks
in a really deep way that's quite confusing.
I mean, one would think, I would think, that if I were aware of these matters,
that would help me to resolve them.
But it's much more complex than that.
What we've inherited is extremely sophisticated and becomes really deeply embedded
in our experience of being human.
Excuse me.
And there are so many factors involved, not the least of which is our incredible sensitivity
to context.
In a way, we're drafting on the accomplishments, the historical developmental accomplishments
of our species in our capacity for representational cognition.
Now, our bodies are doing the same thing genetically, but that process is trustworthy
all the way down to its roots.
In fact, it really isn't, it's sort of incapable of telling a fiction, whereas
our cognitive aspect is almost the opposite of that.
It only tells fictions.
Those fictions are carefully produced to hide some things, highlight others,
emphasize others, authorize some, deauthorize others.
And most of what our cognitive aspect is concerned about is control.
It wants an artifact, not a relationship.
A relationship is unpredictable.
A relationship has to be embodied.
It's deeper than language or ideas or models or theories.
But the ideas and models and qualities and theories, those are manipulable.
Those are like frames or tools.
And our thinking aspect loves that because it feels competent there and would argue that
none of that other embodiment stuff is even really necessary.
We've got everything we need right here in the framework, the idea, the opinion, the bias, the demand.
Now, I'm generalizing about these things and I'm generalizing in a way that's also fairly crude
in the sense that I'm speaking particularly about the aspects of our
representational heritage that are troubling and frightening and dangerous.
And they're not intrinsically thus.
They have these properties primarily because of the imperatives that underlie our relationship
with them and what we received, what was transmitted to us by our cultures and moment
to moment in the contexts in which we live, what is presented as good or true or appropriate
what is celebrated and what is denigrated.
When the sun goes away, it's dark here, but it's light somewhere else.
And perhaps this is too simple an idea to make universal.
But if we think about qualities like hot or cold, black or white,
immediately it becomes apparent that they're dependent
on many things that aren't usually included in our thinking about them.
Who is looking? Why they're looking? Where they're looking? When they're looking?
What is the scope of their view? What is their angle of perspective on the phenomenon?
And by angle of perspective, I mean what are their concerns, presuppositions?
What have they dismissed to acquire this angle of perspective? What have they included?
And of course we can't include all the things we might need to because many of those things
we're completely unaware of and some of that awareness is hidden below the verbal conceptual
levels in our bodies and perhaps in our souls.
Those faculties tend to be timid. They're aware of the strata that lies on top of them,
of its dominant forceful nature, of its capacity to dismiss, denigrate, accuse,
criticize, and they're not very interested in war. This is another problem.
The general character of the strata we inherit as human beings
is extremely interested in conflict because it's interested in control and domination.
And some people have associated this with patriarchy and I don't intend to dismiss that argument,
but I think there's a much deeper context than mere patriarchy. However, to whatever degree that
may be a useful way of thinking about some of the problems in our social system. Now there's
something much deeper and it's hungry and it's angry and it feels vulnerable but it expresses that
as domination.
I suppose one of the other things I was thinking about was the quality of being alive.
We have in our categories, the categories of being, place, thing, time, so on,
we have the idea of an organism.
I think we're very confused about what that actually refers to,
but we've made some modest weird progress on the representational side
and that's not the best side to know what an organism is from, by the way.
It's like trying to know about your girlfriend's lips with a hammer,
or not a good idea, or your boyfriend's lips or anyone's lips.
This is the kind of problem we face. The hammer produces all kinds of seemingly shiny
derivations, models, analyses, criticisms, but it's a hammer. It's not alive. It has no skin in the game.
Most of the critics and authorities in our lives and cultures are very similar. They have no skin in
the game. They're not at risk. They don't have a body to be at risk. They're a weird kind of simulated
life that happens in animals like us. I wouldn't call them organisms, but they behave in populations
in a way not too dissimilar from how we might imagine some organisms behaving.
Not necessarily in nature, but perhaps in something more like a laboratory
where the context has been severely denuded of its natural complexity and diversity.
The strategy we inherit is like the result of this experiment having gone on for millions or perhaps
billions of human lifetimes. We have this weird problem where we acquire tools that pretend to
be minds that they're not mind-like. They are tool-like. Those tools, as we embody and express them,
replace the living underpinnings, the vast depths of consciousness, awareness, and embodied existence
with something not entirely dissimilar to paved trails or roads or freeways.
What travels on those freeways is language, models, analyses, criticisms,
celebration, or counterfeits of some of these things.
As if there were a network that connects all human minds at all times, and there are
entities that dominate that network. Now, are they alive? Well, the whole thing's a model,
and even our ideas about organisms and such is a model.
But what occurred to me is that there are two categories of things we don't really have
classes for at all. We have classes like object or being, right? Object or organism.
Trash can is an object, even though it's probably swarming with organisms.
In fact, it might be hard to find something lying around that wasn't infected with lots of organisms.
And there's a question about once something that isn't living is a swarm with organisms,
is that thing then itself alive? And this question's not trivial because it applies to our planet,
right? We don't think of our planet as an organism usually, but since it's swarming with them,
maybe that makes it alive.
But my real concern or interest here is a little bit weirder. What if there are things
that are more than nearly alive? What if there are beings that aren't simply embodied,
even though they may participate with embodied beings? Well, we don't have a category for that
except in religion or metaphysics. There's no common category of more than alive.
And in case you think it's not relevant, for most of human history, fire was about as hot as
things ever got. We might encounter lava, that was hotter, but mostly fire was about as hot as
it gets. We never imagined the temperatures common on the sun, right? So there's something more than
mere heat and fusion, atomic fusion, and the example of whatever's happening at the event
horizon of a black hole. These demonstrate that the common qualities we presume to be
concrete are matters of scope, right? So what if the scope of an organism is different from what
we imagine? Suppose, for example, that the scope of my being is mostly not local to me, and that
what is local to me is a peculiar concentration of the qualities inherent in that vast,
constellated, layered web of non-local being in relationship, activity, motivation, inspiration,
adoration, wonder. So we don't really have a class for more than a being.
And although we have the class of machine, which is a weird, less than a being
simulation of some very small number of the functions of a being, or what we can derive
as functions of a being, the distribution of force, the transformation of matter.
We don't really have a class
for these aren't beings, but they compete against them and act a bit. They simulate parts of them,
right? And our machines are like this, but it appears that in our cognitive dimension
there's another form of non-being that competes for dominance in the network
of transports between human minds, competes for reproduction rights, and it's disembodied,
it's not alive. And yet, like some kind of strange disease, it's contagious,
and it propagates wildly under various contexts and opportunities. We can see this in the sphere
of ideas and biases that are presently swarming around in our media.
And of course, we have the media itself, which is a really weird construct, fundamentally conflicted,
fascinated with dominance, attention gathering, reproduction, transmission,
not fascinated with excellence, not fascinated with success, fascinated with survival
at all costs, pretty much at any cost.
And so you can see a likeness between our own individual interiority,
where we struggle with and against the bizarre artifacts we've inherited,
particularly the myths, biases, wrong opinions, bad theories, bad interpretations of good theories,
bad applications of useful theories, and so on.
In my own mind, however, however far I may have been able to see into some of the roots of the
trouble is just as vulnerable. Well, maybe a little less. There are some aspects of language and
modernity that I've tried to establish, buffers, but mostly just absorb that stuff
and reflect it back, or pay it no attention, or attend something other than that passionately.
Those are some strategies that can be helpful. But even with all of that, I have the same
struggle with my own mind. It's like I'm dominated by a tool in my mental experience.
And the aspects of the tool that are most dominating
are vulnerable, their vulnerabilities, the felt sense of danger, threat, fear, anxiety,
concern about the future, concern about the past.
Strangely, much of the trouble that I experience, and I think many people share this, is predictive.
We make some very superficial analysis of a situation we're concerned about
and project that over the future. Usually our initial analyses are both, they have aspects of,
you know, more or less correct concern, but they also have aspects of pretending that the unknown
is known, and the future is an extremely unknown kind of thing, much more tenuous than we imagine
from our experience of waking up every day and still being alive, mostly unknown.
And, you know, there's an aspect of our cognition that's really good
at detecting and responding to threats, mostly at a relatively
simple level, but sometimes in a sophisticated way as well.
Of course, when we feed some aspect of our awareness, like what I'll refer to as the threat
sentinel, just like an institution, it wants more scope, more authority, more dominance.
And this inclination can be taken advantage of in all kinds of different ways by media and our institutions.
So, I think there are beings that are more than merely alive, and I think we may participate
with them in some way that's difficult to frame in language at the moment, but there are also
entities that aren't alive, or at least it can be useful to model these processes in these ways,
because they have some properties we associate with organisms.
They reproduce, they acquire terrain, they spread, there are terrain predators in human cognition.
Entity-like constructs that compete for dominance both of the transports between human minds
and of the relationships those human minds engage in, and of course the minds themselves.
The goal is to collapse the structural diversity and the precedence of the body and the unconscious
and the dreaming mind, to collapse all that into manipulable artifacts, tokens, exchangeable little
blips of information or resources, strange word there, for if those were really our resources,
we'd probably have a very different emotional relationship with them.
A relationship more appropriate to
beings capable of looking beyond and before.
The tokens and artifacts we largely exchange in lieu of that awareness.
So if what disappears somewhere appears somewhere else,
I wonder where the potential for
incredible intelligence and intimacy and wonder and play, where they disappear to
as they are overcome by the stifling structured strata layers
of the representational traditions we inherit and reenact and find very confusing in our day-to-day lives as human beings.
Some of those potentials
remain in the body, some of them extend into our relationships for the world, the sky.
They may have extent we've never properly imagined because most of our models are young
and relatively crude.
A bee just took brief shelter under my umbrella.
I think we carry within us, so to speak, or maybe it's not that we carry within us anything,
rather we are comprised moment to moment.
We are, as if an aspect of us is breathing
in the place of our essence,
in the place of our bodies, in the place of our emotional selves.
These potentials and assets are flowing and alive, deep underground,
away from the, protected from the structured fictions and aggressive ideas and language
that we're commonly immersed in.
But they emerge when it's safe.
They emerge when invited and nurtured, nourished and rewarded.
And so even if they may seem to our waking mind to be gone or have died or have become so inhibited
as to barely be sensible to us, deep within ourselves, they're thriving, hoping for
an opportunity to emerge into embodiment and expression and rejuvenation
of our humanity, perhaps of our world.
If we can learn to understand these matters more clearly together, it will certainly be useful
even in our own lives and relationships. It's not clear whether we have the capacity to change
the world or if that would be a good idea given our present relatively impoverished ideas of what
we'd like. Though there are obvious changes that are absolutely crucial for our species to have
made 50 years ago, 20 years ago, 10 years ago. We're very late to the game.
One of the strange myths is that humans can outrun time, that we can outrun death,
that we can conquer nature, conquer death, conquer disease. But it's again very similar to the idea
of my hand trying to conquer me. My hand can't conquer its origin and if it did, it would die.
And this is the same problem with these
bizarre ideas that again have become mind-like entities in our modern human experience.
I think there are different species of mind-like entities that we're trained to compose and
sustain together. And thankfully, this implies that we can develop much more beneficial versions
of this kind of phenomenon, much more trustworthy versions, more humane versions, more intelligent
versions, more embodied versions. And of course, in little melting pots within our culture,
some cohorts play at these things constantly.
To be alive is an astonishing thing, to continue to live more so.
But to remember, for me, the dreams and aspirations, the suffering and struggle
of all the beings who have lived on earth, to remember that and to have a concern
about fulfilling some of those dreams, to have a concern about transforming
how our species develops and how we relate with the relatively science-fictiony
aspects of our representational cognition. These are goals that move my heart
and inspire me to continue to quest and seek passionately, hopefully, to understand
the history and our present situation and the potentials inherent in our
astonishing situation as human beings.
Thank you for joining me today. I look forward to continuing to learn and grow together very soon.
