I swallow the fertile eye, swallow the malignancy's eye of the bombs, as they begin of the bombs
of the terrible, the clean bombs, I merit the fertile dead, I fondle the dead bombs
of justice, I need her.
Any bullet is my name's best letter, whereby a gun is introduced, I need her inside my
teeth for a moment I need to become her explicit gift boxes.
The doomed petals of a purely computational intimacy, the associated blood of the media's
livid corpse, whereby someone's silhouette is kissing this gun.
And you can hear my heavy curse, like a purely computational intimacy.
You can hear the fertile malignancy's of the clean children of justice.
My terrible merit, someone's silhouette, did I mention the roots of my heavy curse?
Like her doomed petals in the whole schoolroom, a moment, he steals, she rises, I mention,
the whole schoolroom explodes, spitting flames and chunks of a gun, as they begin to click
and blow the fertile malignancy's of their dreaming skin.
The permanent, chewy flower inside the dead and the whole schoolroom is her lips, my heavy
curse, the bombs of the clean children kissing this gun.
Explicit gift boxes, her an electric prism, and my need to hear a crunching sound.
As they begin, I swallow, someone's silhouette, did I mention my name's best letter, my salvation,
her lips, did I mention she rises from the media's livid justice?
Her lips pull my trigger and the whole schoolroom explodes, spitting flames and chunks of gore
into explicit gift boxes.
This gun and you can hear the absolute light of force pushed past the possible into the
permanent, bearing the labels, privilege, prison, primate.
I swallow the fertile prison, I primate the bombs, the privileged silhouette, whereby
a gun is inside her teeth, my salvation, the light of the dead, the bullet is a thief,
bearing the label I need, the eros of how they freely transmit, the contact, the contact
stop, the contact, it's a trick stop, the justice stop, the fertile malignancy's of
the bombs, it's a trick step stop, est stop, did I mention that a gun was a trick, did
I mention stop inside my teeth, the labels, privilege stop, prison stop, primate, stop.
