So, I'm Darren Stevenson.
I'm here with my dear friend, Ryan Furstiver, Nitsutapi, man.
And we're having some discussions about early attempts to repatriate cultural material.
Things that have been essentially stolen under the idea that these are natural history items and then ensconced in museums.
So, Ryan, please start wherever you want. We could go back to the meteorite situation if you're willing and keep a book.
I'll talk about the meteorite, but maybe I just want to tell a Harvard story.
Okay, great.
Because that's where we were. We can return to New York in the history when we get there.
And I know for my camera thing, I'm going to fuck this all up, but you're just going to have to deal with that.
All right, so in 1993, I started working with the, I've been in 1994, I started working with the Blackfit Tribal Business Council in Browning, Montana.
I was a student in Boston at the time. I have Blackfit heritage and I was studying, studying all things Blackfoot while I was in school.
And one of the things that was going on at the time, I think it was 1993, there was a, in the US, they had proposed this Land Consolidation Act for the tribes.
And what they were thinking was, you know, when the reservations were first established in the states, each male had a household was given so many acres of land proportioned out to, you know, I think it was like 214 acres or something.
But it's since split up, split up, split up through the generations so that now, you know, somebody coming in might only have an acre of land if that, you know, and so it's hard to make money off of that land when you don't have much of it.
And so the government was proposing, well, let's re-consolidate those original tracks and then have the families that live on that space who are obviously, you know, closely related to the original title owner, have them come up with some kind of business plan to work that land.
And then support them to do that. So this was the 1993 Land Consolidation Act. And I thought it sounded really fishy, you know, because I'd like, what? You got to take those original land tracks back into trust.
And then these guys got to like figure out a business plan. This is a First Nations reserve. What are you thinking, right? Like, what's up here? This sounds fishy. And a lot of people in Indian country were thinking that at the time, you know.
And so I looked into it and because I was going to school in Boston, I was fortunate to have access to Federal Reserve libraries.
And so I could go look up the communications, the transcripts of communications between the Bureau of Land Management and the Bureau of Indian Affairs and, you know, the Senate and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, everybody that was involved in bringing this act to Congress and having it passed.
I could see every step of the way and their plans. I got their plans on paper and everything. And it was wicked, dude. They had five tribes that they were set up to start this Land Consolidation Act on.
And the Blackfeet Reservation in Montana was one of them. And the Bureau of Land Management had mapped out where all of the important subsurface resources were.
Of course.
And so those were the places where they were going to do the experiment, take it into trust.
And their whole plan was to mine that shit while they had it in trust.
And it would be a long time because it's hard to get those families to work together, you know, on those original land trusts that have been broken up over 100 years now, you know.
And so I brought all of the paperwork to Maj. Walters, who was on the Blackfeet Tribal Council at the time, an Earl old person who was the chair.
He's the longest, you know, he was used to, he is the chief of the Blackfeet in Montana.
He's passed now. He just passed the other year. But for most of my life, he was the chief of the Blackfeet in Montana.
And he always had, I always had his blessings with the shit I was doing. But I brought this stuff to them.
They went to Washington D.C. with it and shut it down.
Okay. And that kind of gave me an inroads with tribal government down there.
Like I didn't do it on purpose to like, you know, create any inroads or anything like that.
But that's what it gave me some relationships through doing that research that I just thought needed to be done.
Because I thought the Sutton bullshit's going on here, you know, and it sure was.
Yeah, it's like a re-colonization.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, the process still continues today.
Of course.
Yeah.
And by the way, back then, your name was Ryan Heavyhead.
Yeah.
Well, no, it was Ryan Hancock.
Ah.
That was even before.
Okay.
Yeah, my name was Ryan Hancock.
And so.
Anyway, I helped them stop that Land Consolidation Act from being instituted.
And basically, you know, mine in the shit out of the reserves.
And then I was invited to some things in the, in the subsequent summer season in Montana that gave me access to black foot art and ceremony.
And I wanted to know more once I once I started, you know, experiencing and seeing that I wanted to know more about it.
So I was going into my last year of undergraduate studies in Boston and I proposed to my mentor there that I do some kind of honors thesis regarding black foot art.
And he gave me the summer to think about what I want to do.
And I never came up with anything, you know, very interesting when I came back to him at the end of the summer.
You know, I had my experiences.
Up here to talk about, but I hadn't reviewed any literature done, you know, I didn't have a scholarly question at all.
I just wanted to know more about black foot art.
My whole interest in getting into anthropology and native studies to begin with was just an identity quest, you know.
So for me, it was just like, learn more, learn more.
So I had seen some things I wanted to learn more.
And he gave me a stack of books when I came back at the end of summer with no good question.
He gave me a stack of books and he says, go away for three weeks and you read these.
You have to read them all and you have to come here and be prepared to talk about them.
And then we'll formulate some kind of question, right?
Together.
So I went away and a lot of these books that he gave me were books that were problematizing.
Museum and academies work with Indigenous art all together.
And in there was included a little like privately published thing where somebody had gone and surveyed all of the museums in England, Scotland and the United States.
And put together like an inventory of all of the California Indian items in those museums.
Just as a resource for the tribes, basically.
So I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
Just as a resource for the tribes, basically.
It was called Times Flotsam.
I even forget the author's name, but it's called Times Flotsam.
And it was just this inventory of European museum stuff.
And when I like, I read a lot of good stuff in those books he gave me.
But when I seen that little thing, I was like, oh, there's something I can do.
It's right back to that.
Just like I had just done with the land consolidation.
Here's something I can contribute.
What if I found out where all the black foot stuff is?
And I did up an inventory and I give it to the tribe.
Right.
This was the idea that I got out of his stack of stuff.
And I ended up getting a little grant through my university to carry out that research.
I went to try to find out, like, okay, where do you find out where the museums are that have black foot material culture?
If you wanted to look for black foot material culture in the world, in its museums,
what resource would you turn to to tell you where to go?
Right.
Nothing.
There were these like, there's these like phone book sized nation by nation museum guides
that have these listings that the best you get is like native North American,
you know, native North American culture, native North American, you know, whatever, anthropology or ethnology or whatever.
Right.
You don't get tribe by tribe.
And so what I had to do is go through all of those world country guides,
find the places that had native North American collections, copy their addresses and all that shit,
and then send them a letter, every one of them.
So I sent over 4,000 letters.
What?
Yeah.
I had, I had a little grant from my, from my, my, because I was doing an honors thesis.
I had wicked like, you know, they were going to support me, whatever.
But they had a little small, like undergraduate honors thesis.
It was like, I don't know, a thousand bucks or something, but bottle of stamps.
And I sent out 4,000 letters.
I bought a post office box in Boston.
And I collect, and I got Earl old person to write me a letter from Montana from the, from the Blackfeet tribe.
He's the chief saying, I have his blessings.
Please give this guy our inventory of what's in your museum.
And I start getting dump loads of mail from all around the world, you know.
And then it was interesting because some places that you wouldn't think would respond to you responded.
Like for instance, the Vatican, they gave me a really good response.
They sent me photographs of everything that they have, along with the, you know, descriptions and accessions information.
And they were like, they were very clean and, you know, this is it, right?
This is what we got.
But then there were museums like, like Harvard Peabody Museum, for instance, which was, you know, like within walking distance across the river from where I lived in Brookline.
And they didn't send me anything.
And, you know, for months, I didn't, I didn't get any response from them.
And I'm like, they're one of the major North American museums for, for indigenous collections.
Like why, why haven't they given me a response?
And so one day I decided to do like a strategic spy mission and go to the museum and see what they had on the map.
So I went over there, walked through their exhibit and I've seen for blackfoot material, they had a women's society headdress.
It's like, it's like a buffalo headdress with horns.
They had yellow kidney.
He was a beaver man from Montana in the turn of the century.
They had yellow kidneys, scalp lock suit.
Like his buckskin suit with the scalp locks from the Scarface story.
They had a couple of horn spoons and a pair of moccasins on display.
As well.
And so I went home and I called them up the next day.
And I said, hey, you know, I'm a researcher from University of Massachusetts.
And I've, I sent you guys a letter a couple of months back.
I haven't had any response asking for your inventory of blackfoot materials as part of a project.
That I'm doing with the black feet nation from Montana.
And I, you know, I'm just wondering when you guys are going to respond.
And then they got, they said, okay, hold on the line.
They got, they got whoever need to talk to me.
One of their curators came back.
I think her name was Susan if I remember right.
But anyway, I'll just call her Susan.
So Susan came back and said, came on the phone and said, well,
we didn't respond to you because we really don't have anything of significance at the P body.
That's black foot.
I mean, we have a pair of moccasins and a couple of horn spoons.
And I said, that's funny because I was in your museum just yesterday.
Looking through what you have on exhibit.
And I've seen that there's a women's society headdress there.
And you have yellow kidneys scalp lock suit that's considered a sacred bundle.
And I would like to come make an appointment to come to your museum and look at your other accessions information and find out what else you have that's black foot in your story.
And so she went away for a couple of minutes from the phone, Susan, and then came back and said, well, it takes, you know, like here at Harvard, you have to schedule months in advance to get to come and do that kind of research.
And so, you know, if you want to do that.
And I say, yeah, I'm here.
So schedule it, you know, put it on the calendar.
She went away for about three more minutes, came back on the phone and said, can you come in next week?
Well, she was just bluffing me, dude.
It's all a fucking bluff.
So anyway, she schedules me to come in there the next week and I go in and I've just got, you know, a notebook and shit.
Like, this is like reading the internet and shit really, you know, like going on, I don't know, we just barely.
And so anyway, I went in and I went through, you know, their files.
Susan met me in their accessions department and gave me this paper.
And which had a list of all their Blackfoot items.
They'd finally put together a list for me.
And at the very top of that paper was human remains, which there was a skull there.
And then right underneath that, the next item on the list was a beaver bundle.
And then went down from there.
There were several sacred items, bundles, and then, you know, a lot of other things that the collection was significant.
So I told her, well, I'd like to look at the accessions files on this beaver bundle first thing, you know.
And so she gave me that and I started taking all the notes.
They got that bundle for like 300 bucks or something, you know, from the, they got it from, what is it then?
Denver Art Museum, you know, there was a trade that went on and Denver Art Museum got from Madge Walters.
And Madge Walters was this lady from San Francisco, who was very rich, who went to,
but had some kind of terminal cancer. She went to Browning.
She met with a Swimsunder. I think it might have been Mike Swimsunder's dad.
The late Mike Swimsunder's dad, who's in my lineage for the beaver bundle.
He brought her to Blood Tribe, where she got to witness and participate in the Sundance.
And she connected at that time with three young people here.
Eugene Creighton, Frank Redcro, and
he was a woman, I want to say Ethel, but he's a big sorrel horse.
Madge Walters was her last name, big sorrel horse. Three people that Madge Walters, young people, like in their like early 20s.
And she connected with them. They all had parents and close relatives in major positions in the societies and in the Sundance and such, and they started selling her things.
Sometimes they would fake it. They would make the shit themselves and sell her a replica that she couldn't tell the difference.
But going through the museums, we can tell the difference. Sometimes they would sell her that stuff, but a lot of times, once someone with a major bundle was passing on,
they would go in and acquire that bundle for a very small amount of money.
Sometimes 35, 50 bucks.
Can I interrupt you with a question here for a moment?
Sure.
Explain to the people listening something about what a beaver bundle is.
Alright, so beaver bundle, for instance, the thing that I ended up repatriating from Harvard in this story is the embodiment of the original treaty between human beings and animals.
You know, in this area, like the Blackfoot territory of North America, which is substantial, it's like the Upper Missouri and Upper Saskatchewan drainage basins is two major, the headwaters of two major river systems.
And this goes back to like when the beaver bundle came in was the same time that dogs were domesticated because they're part of that story.
So that's how old this goes back.
And about how long is that to go?
I have no idea.
I mean, I can tell you what the scientists think.
I don't know what if they're right.
Did I make a guess?
This before there are horses, right?
Oh, 5,000 to 8,000 years ago.
That's what I was looking for.
Yeah, at least.
At least to have domesticated dogs.
Here.
And not only that, but like, I think it's even longer than that, because here you have like Eniskim at sites, which are, which are, which are buffalo stones.
They're like these fossils that look like buffaloes, but they, they're part of a ceremony that is, that became part of the beaver bundle after the beaver bundle already existed.
And those things are found, you know, those Eniskim are found at bison sites here in Alberta going back like nine, 10,000 years.
So I think it's all the beaver bundles even older than that.
Like, you know, very, very old.
It's the first medicine bundle in the Blackfoot tradition.
I know it like nobody knows a lot of people out there don't know what medicine bundles are, whatever, but you know, in this case, without going through the whole, the whole origin of that, it's really a bunch of skins from animals who gave knowledge to humans in a treaty agreement situation.
Yeah, this is the humans and the animals coming together in relation.
Yeah, under the auspices of an agreement that they have together that they form together and the bundles the embodiment of those agreements if I'm understanding something.
Yep.
Okay.
Yeah. And so, you know, that bundle is very fluid.
Um, new, like animals bring new things in animals and plants, bring new things into the bundles through humans.
And then humans have experiences that the beaver bundles end up kind of like,
like say somebody has has an experience where they themselves are given some kind of very important knowledge
from an animal, like in a spiritual way, like they have a dream about it, and it's vivid and the animal tells them in their head, talking to, you know, like,
and a beaver bundle owner might look at that person and watch them for a little bit and see what happens with that.
And if it seems to be that they that they think that their experience was very valid, they got something beneficial that should, you know, that the people should adopt.
Then the beaver man, woman might go to that person and and ask to kind of buy that gift into the bundle.
And so the beaver bundles constantly absorbing things and then and then putting things out too.
So if they have somebody has that new experience, say they have experience where,
you know, like what has happened, the thunder, you know, the fun, the thunder came in conflict with people and the humans relationships with animals is what kind of saved them from that conflict.
The animals dealt with the thunder on behalf of the people, the crows in particular,
and the thunder was made to kind of make amends to the people for for something it had, you know, it had done.
So it was giving the people a bundle that would protect them from it, you know, not only thunder, but it's close associates, which included bears.
And in order for that person's experience to be legitimated and brought kind of into the Orthodox tradition so that the bundle was like validated by the community, the beaver bundle would feed it and give some things from the beaver bundle into that bundle
to validate it.
So beaver bundles kind of the hub, hey,
you know, because the original, what matters is the treaty between the living beings here. That is the beaver bundle.
And also it's a kind of library of transfers.
Yeah, totally.
Transfer meaning when something profoundly sacred powerful or meaningful is given out or brought in.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's a ceremonial process to the transfer of course.
Yeah.
Okay, let me ask you to pause for right here. Can you hold your thought.
I will.
The reason is the recording is about to end so I have to restart it to continue recording.
Cool. So hold your thought and we'll be right back.
All right, so I just want to clarify a few things before we continue. We're going to go to the bookmark of the woman in San Francisco.
Right.
And we're going to say again.
Matt Walters.
We're still talking a little bit about the beaver bundle and I want to just hear from you.
What is the meaning of a transfer we've said a little bit about what the beaver bundle is explain if you will a little bit about transfer.
Well, you know, transfer is is being given a way of doing something.
If it's a major transfer.
A lot of times it's being given a new way of life.
When it's a beaver bundle transfer, that's what it is. Hey, it's being given a whole new way of life and a new role. It's a, it's a
What do you call it?
It's a, it can be a rite of passage. It can be as simple as somebody teaching you how to make a sandwich.
It can be as complicated as, you know, someone training you in something extremely specialized that maybe two or three people on the face of the earth know about, you know,
all that stuff can be transfer, you know, when it when it comes to the black foot way of life and stuff.
You really need to be exposed to those bundles in order to get the core philosophies.
You don't have to take care of a bundle necessarily.
Just, you know, be in the community and exposed to them and such to get some of those core philosophies and if you from, you know, if you don't do that you can be black foot and not be black foot almost.
You know, you can, you can, you can, you can be here and grow up here and well not really everybody here is exposed to the bundles we all we all got that core core shit but if you if you never, if you never lived here and been exposed to that then
you know, it's, it's, you know, you don't got the culture, you don't got it, right. It's just it's, it's in, it's in those bundles. It's not a religious thing so much.
It's cultural but it has these kind of religious underpins, you know, because you can connect all of these things to these bundles, these bundles have these origins that are, you know, very like legendary origins.
Mythological things.
You know, animals and people sitting down and making treaties and shit, you know, yes. Yeah.
I want to get back to Harvard but absolutely.
I just want to say I don't want to, I don't want to leave, I don't want to leave questions unanswered. Do you have a couple things and feel free to correct me because you know, it's an outsider.
Right.
But the bundle seems to me to be something that we don't really have in the West, an idea of.
It's like a library of histories and relationships and traditions that is itself alive.
Yeah, it's a living thing.
This is what I want to be really clear about.
Yeah, the bundles are living being and when you're taking care of it, that's a living being that you're taking care of.
Yes.
And you have to nurture it.
And you have to tend to like, you know,
everything like all the kind of crazy shit that you would with any human being, living being.
It is not, we don't have a category for this in English. There's no category for this.
Only the category of living being, but never we would think in English that something that we would be likely to view as an object would be a living being.
Yeah, and there's like, we're going to get into some of that too.
When we talk about Harvard.
Okay.
I just wanted to just take a moment and clarify a few of those unusual things because without understanding this, you're not going to really have any hope of even conceptualizing what a bundle is.
No, well, you know, like a lot of people have asked me to try to explain concisely what the beaver bundle or any bundle is.
It's really difficult with a beaver bundle.
The most concise explanation that I have is that it is the living embodiment of a treaty between the humans and the animals.
It is tangibly a role of mostly animal skins and other artifacts that have come into that bundle.
Paint, tobacco, tobacco seeds, stick calendars.
With the beaver bundle, there's a lot of things wrapped in it, but it's mostly animal skins.
And the ceremony is a reenactment of the treaty.
And, but, you know, interestingly, the dances follow a progression like an annual phenological progression of animal mating.
So that the dances are mostly animal dances.
Well, they're all animal dances, but they follow a sequence through the season that you're speaking toward.
Whenever you're in Blackfoot ceremony, you're always speaking toward whatever's happening and going to happen in the like very near future.
And that's, you know, that's just a renewal of the treaty every time that goes on.
So the beaver bundle does this twice a year at the end of summer and at the end of winter.
There's just the two seasons really formally recognized and there's words for that transition.
They go and go between them like fall and spring and fall, but they're not really seasons per se, you know, their transition points between summer and winter.
Between time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, it's, it's just the transition.
There's not even, there's not even a between time.
There's not a gap.
There's summer and then winter boom, boom.
It feels like that here too.
Like when he thought story comes, you know, the cold arrives.
That's what it's literally called, and it does boom, and it's here.
You're you were in summer last week.
You were wearing shorts and t-shirt.
And now you got snow and it's sub zero.
You know, and then
associated with each of the
beings or elements in the beaver bundle. There are songs.
Yeah.
Well, that's the thing like each of the animals.
Well, the beaver bundle is the thing.
Nobody knows how many songs are in the beaver bundle.
Hundreds and hundreds have come and gone.
But there is a core group of songs from the, from the original
treaty and some of the major things that have happened.
That all of the beaver bundles have kind of like.
Like, because there's more than one beaver bundle at this point.
Right.
There was, there was originally the one and an origin story to that.
And then other people had experiences where they were told to create beaver
bundles and such.
But they had to do it through the original.
Right.
So it's all got the original link to it.
Right.
It's all got something tangibly, like physically from the original.
I want to imagine the situation where, for example, you have a fire.
Yeah.
And the fire has been started from a pole from a previous fire.
Yeah.
And it goes all the way back to the first fire.
Yeah.
And so this fire right in front of you has the first fire in it.
Yep.
By analogy.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Precisely.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's good.
Yeah.
Because things, things wear out in the bundles, like physical things.
Of course.
You have to replace them.
We're talking 10,000 years plus maybe, you know.
Yeah.
You have to replace things when they wear out.
But it's like the fire, like you say, hey, it's the same fire.
You know, you get after, you have to feed more wood in that fucking fire.
Right.
Yes.
Yeah.
So.
So yeah, the beaver bundle.
The animals.
All gave their robes.
Which is their, which is a symbol of protection.
Right.
Their robes.
What they, what they use to protect camouflage themselves, all that stuff.
Think about that.
You know, that's what they, they gave that.
And then they sing a song or many songs.
And in each of those songs were other things like how they get their medicines, how they
hunt their foods, how they make their homes, how they live with their spouses, how they
raise their children, like all of these kinds of things.
When, when human beings, like in this story of the, of the beaver bundle origin, the animals
looked at the human beings as the most recent arrival, basically.
Like a very recent arrival and ill equipped, ill adapted.
We can't run fast.
We can't swim very well.
We can can't climb trees very well.
We can't fly at all.
You know, we're weak.
We're soft.
We're slow.
We don't have a road.
We don't have a road.
We don't really have no road.
They could have called us like no road.
Okay, but all right.
In the origin story of the beaver bundle, there's something about not having a rope.
Because there's a point where not ski, who's the tiger salamander, steps up to
the bundle and right away, the other animals start mocking him because he doesn't have a
rope to give.
He's not given anything physical into the bundle.
There's no rope.
You don't got no fur, no feathers, no nothing.
And so the animals were mocking him.
They're telling me he's just naked.
He doesn't have anything.
Why is he even here?
I don't understand it, you know, and he got mad.
And he's saying this song, which I know.
And then he, and then he left the lodge.
His wife was still there and she hung out.
I don't know why she didn't leave, but that's her.
Anyway, he left.
And the song that he's saying brought on a deluge rainstorm so heavy that the lake
that they were camped next to the waters were rising and threatening to flood out
the ceremony for the rest of the night, the whole, like, you know, the whole tree.
And so the animals begged the salamander's wife to bring him back and stop the rain.
And she did.
And then with another song.
Which I know.
Those were his contributions to the bundle, those songs.
And then right after him.
Ironically.
The frog that the chorus from stood up to contribute to the bundle.
And the Nam ski.
The tiger salamander who just been mocked.
Said the same criticisms to the frog.
The fuck are you doing here?
You don't got any, anything to give to this bundle.
You don't even, you're just naked.
You don't, you don't got anything to offer.
And he, and he pushed him.
He pushed him on his chest.
And the, the frog fell down on his back.
And he fell down.
And he, and he had his hands up like this.
By his head.
With four fingers on one side and three on the other.
And he, he told the animals. Yeah.
He told them.
Seven.
I'm giving seven winter moons.
To the humans during which all of your hides.
All of your, all of your beautiful robes are going to be so thick.
So lovely.
The humans are going to be hunting you and wanting to kill you.
Kind of a curse.
Because let me be clear about what he's saying. He's saying, um,
It was winter.
All of you people who have robes,
your robes are going to be so thick and warm that the humans will
hunt you for those robes.
Yep.
So what he's giving to the humans is the capacity to wear the robes
of the other animals in a way.
Yeah. Well, he's, he's giving them a very long winter.
Oh yeah.
But he's given everybody a long winter.
I see.
And the frog is the one that hops between the seasons.
You know, when it comes to the moons, there's a,
there's a black foot moon called Metsi Kapisaki,
some, the frog moon.
And that's the one that it's either a winter or summer moon,
depending on whether it's a leap year and it will leap into the
summer if it's a, if it's a leap year, the leap year,
the leap, the extra moon, the 13 moon always comes in the winter.
As far as I've come to know.
Between two specific other moons.
What's that?
Between two specific other moons.
Yes. Well, the frog is always where, where he is.
He's between, yeah.
It's between Saaki, some, the duck moon.
And Apiskitsa, the flower moon.
Ah.
That's where the frog will be.
That's when the frogs mate.
A lot of the, you know,
all of the stuff around the beaver bundle has to do with the
mating time.
A lot of it. Yeah.
Yeah. That's it. That's the recreation. Yeah.
Okay. I have a question.
Yep.
What did the humans give?
The humans gave a scalp.
You want to hear the human story? Yes, please.
All right.
Because all of the animals,
they're giving a whole library to the humans.
Yeah.
Making a treaty with them.
What do the humans contribute? And what is the agreement?
This is what I want.
Okay.
And we'll get back to match, but this stuff's important.
Yep.
There are.
Two different.
Human contributions into the beaver bundle.
Both of them are scalps.
One of them comes from the.
Scabby round robe story.
But the scalp is not really the important thing that comes from
that story. So I'm not going to tell that story,
even though that's one of the scalps that you'll find in the beaver
bundle and some other stuff from scabby round robe as well.
This is, this is another whole like.
Another, a big story that happened.
That brought a whole bunch of new things into the beaver bundle.
There's several in, you know,
you can imagine thousands of years of history,
how many times your main corpus has to change and have, you know,
resolution.
There are still core moments.
There are like heartbeat over those thousand years where there's
something very core that is transferred.
Yeah.
Or included.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So a big woman him.
Scabby round robe is one of these stories that some of that stuff
comes from.
So some beaver bundles have scalps in them associated with scabby
round robe.
There's a, there's a other scalp in there.
In some of the bundles.
And, and Mahoney in my bundle has this scalp.
And it comes from a story about a pistol book.
How old child.
Who was a big gunny.
One of the Blackfoot tribes is called be gunny.
That was his tribe.
He had this dream.
This is way, way back.
You know,
I don't even want to try to imagine what, how many years ago or
whatever.
But he had a dream.
That him and his.
His, you know, close brothers and cousins and stuff.
Went and really.
Super successfully raided.
Their southern neighbor.
The petiques in that ones.
The snake people.
The show show me.
And so.
He convinced his brothers and cousins, let's do this.
Let's go down there.
I know it's going to be like we're going to, we're going to come home
so rich.
We're going to steal all their, all their stuff where you get all
these, you know,
Vowlers and stuff.
Let's go do this.
So they all start following him.
They pack up.
And they're going on a, on a, on a multi day.
Mission to go down there and try to actualize this dream.
But.
Every time they sleep and they travel mostly at night.
Hey.
When they're going on these raids, they travel at night and they
sleep in the day in the, in the, like.
Usually in the, in the thickets.
You know, find some coolly with.
Like really close.
Choke cherries are down by the river.
With willow, close willow and stuff.
And you, and you just sleep during the day and keep cover and
then travel by night.
Make your way to the enemy.
And then.
Or to, I don't know, it's not even enemy in black foot.
It's more like opponent.
Cause all like the language is all in gaming.
And there was a system.
There was a, there was a system, a point system.
Which I don't, I don't have all in my head.
But killing people was low on the point system.
Yeah.
You know, high on the point system is taking away.
You know, vital resources.
You know, take away.
Namah gun is what they call a coup in black foot,
but that's literally acquiring a gun.
Yeah.
Taking their, taking their, their, uh, what, you know,
whatever that is, whether it was a bow before and whatever,
taking their weapon, you know, taking their stuff that they
used to, um, to retaliate against you and to hunt.
Like it's all, like back then it's all very utilitarian too.
You know, because the more, you know,
the more resources he got, um, the,
the bigger guy you were, like,
especially once the horses came in, hey,
horses really changed everything.
Um, I think this story is like way pre-horse though.
It's certainly pre-gun by a long shot.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So anyway, these guys are going down south to,
uh, to raid their enemy or to raid their opponent,
the snake people.
And every time they sleep, the brothers, the cousins and stuff,
they start having their own dreams and their dreams aren't as nice.
Wow.
They're fearful dreams.
Wow.
They see themselves dying.
They see bad things happen, you know,
or they see, you know, they're scared when they wake up from
their dreams and so pretty soon, like, you know,
a couple of days in people start turning them back.
They're not, they're not going to participate, you know,
and his closest cousins and brothers stick with him further,
but eventually them too, they're just,
they're all having dreams that are ominous and bad, you know.
And, uh, they, they're like, Hey, man,
like we want to trust your dream and everything,
but like we got trust ours too.
And so, um, so they back off.
Uh, and he's like, all right, go ahead.
You know, my, uh, you know,
you know, my relatives are not worth anything.
Do you want to have some food? Go.
I have a, I have a dog here that's a pet sitting.
Ah, yes.
Who's been here now 24 hours and not eating.
Yeah.
You can't tell whether where the owner is if he gets to go home,
but if he's coming, why is this happening?
Oh, it's a great stress down.
There we go.
You're going to eat, aren't you? There you go, Jimmy.
Oh, um,
Oh, where are we?
His, his cousins have turned back.
Oh yeah.
Now he's on his own.
Yeah.
I'll child.
He's on his own.
And then a storm approaches.
He's decided in his mind, he's going to go.
Down to the opponents.
And he's just going to go write nuts on them.
And do, you know,
like he's probably going to die.
It's a suicide mission.
He's going to let them take his life because his,
he's so like him, you know,
humiliated and upset with his relatives for not continuing with him.
Anyway, the storm is coming.
And he finds a crag.
In some rock.
In the Coolies to climb into.
And you can go deep into this crag to get out of the weather.
But it gets, you know, dark, dark.
In there.
Pitch black dark.
In the cave.
And.
In that cave, he's kind of like, you know,
the storm is raging and shit outside and he's just kind of like
hanging out in the cave.
And then he bumps into something.
And he starts feeling it.
And then he realizes this, this is another fucking guy in here.
Like standing right here, you know.
And his heart's racing.
He doesn't know who the heck this is.
It could be an enemy anything.
He starts like frantically kind of feeling this guy.
He's already touched him and felt him up a little bit to like,
before he came to the realization that's a fucking person, you know.
So he starts touching him a little bit more to try to figure out.
Like, does he have anything on him that I can tell what,
you know, what kind of person this is.
Something like symbols and shit, you know.
And he can't find nothing.
In the dark.
And so ultimately he takes a risk.
And he goes like this.
And he rubs his fist on the guy's cheek.
Like this.
This is the sign for be gunny.
Which is his tribe.
He was telling him who he was.
Which is a huge risk.
And the other guy puts his finger on owl child's chest.
And does the zigzag.
Cross his chest.
And he's telling him he's bit sick.
See now.
The snake person.
That's their opponent.
And so again, like.
Owl child's heart starts racing.
Because he thinks this is it.
Like any second he's getting killed.
Or kill, kill or get killed, you know.
But he doesn't, he doesn't, he doesn't move on the guy.
And then they, they,
they keep trying to like use.
Sign language on each other's bodies.
To try to start communicating things.
And when the storm lets up, they go outside.
And they go full into playing sign language.
Which was the lingua franca.
Of the time, you know.
And.
They realize that they actually have super similar stories.
This guy was coming up north to raid them.
With his brothers and all that shit.
And his guys turned back and chickened out and all that.
They're mirroring.
Yeah, they're very, they're very much mirroring.
There isn't really any big difference between them, so to speak.
You know, the symbols.
You know, that couldn't even show up in the cave.
What the fuck do those really mean?
You know, why are we hanging on to those?
We're not really very different.
They start like.
They start a real conversation.
Maybe we should.
Maybe we shouldn't be opponents.
Yeah.
So they divide, they put together a scheme.
Each one.
Is going to cut.
A little piece of scalp.
A braid like.
Off the other guy.
And take it home.
And tell the story about the, how they, you know.
Went.
You know, even though everybody abandoned, they went there and they
fought the enemy and all that shit.
And.
And then they were going to, they knew that.
People would question.
Because they're each missing a breed too.
Right?
Of course.
So they devised a plan to bring their people back to meet at the
certain spot under the auspices that they were going to prove.
They're going to show them the dead body of the enemy.
You know.
And they went and actualized this.
And brought their people back and visit.
There's a whole long story.
About the kind of interaction that happened there.
But suffice to say they ended up.
The two guys owl child and the.
And the.
And the snake man.
They traded lives.
They traded lodges.
They traded wives.
They traded everything.
And so.
And so.
Like they just entered into each other's tribe.
And took on that person's identity.
And then they encouraged people to.
Camp together for a little while at the end of that summer.
And make relationships, which they did.
Everybody was getting along.
Many long-term relationships were made.
Hold on.
I gotta call my dogs.
Oh.
Jenny's the Dalmatian.
She ate.
And then wanted to go out. That's good.
She's been going out, but she hadn't eaten yet.
She'd been too stressed.
Oh, Jenny.
Let's go in.
Let's go.
So a lot of good relationships were made.
And at the end of the season, kind of, when the sea,
like they had this, like you can't campus one big camp for very
long, you know, that's very harvest time.
Right.
Only when there's enough resources to feed everybody.
Yeah.
Right.
So as, as winters approach, and you got to break up in the
smaller, smaller camps, and it sucks for everybody because they
like to be together, you know.
So, so the people in this new camp were kind of grieving that
they had to leave each other.
The teenagers were especially having difficulty dealing with
the younger people.
Having difficulty dealing with the separation.
And so while everybody was already starting to move out,
they kind of lingered on and played some more games together.
And one of the games that they played was a hoop and arrow
game.
Where you throw this, this ring is dividing into different
segments and stuff.
And then you try to pass a dart through an arrow through it,
you know, and depending on what part of the hoop you hit,
you get different points and that kind of thing.
At the end of the game, two boys seemed to be tied,
but they disagreed that they were tied.
They each thought they actually beat the other and they start
arguing about it.
And in the end, the big gunny boy picked up a weapon,
I think a stick, something simple,
and killed that snake boy, the younger guy.
And that rekindled the whole feud that they had supposedly
overcome.
And, you know, so for me, like, there's, you know,
and this is what, like we have, we have a dance in the beaver
bundle that has that ring that they played with.
And the scalp.
And it involves the links, which is the embodiment of Morningstar.
The links dances that scalp around the hoop and stick.
And, but the song.
The song that goes with it is a, is a song about, you know,
the, it's a, it's now used as a victory song.
But it's a, it's a song that says, you know, the snake man,
he cried anyway.
And it's, it's a weird thing, like I get from this story, like,
there's very court, like, you know, basic anthropological stuff
that I get from this story, you know, like we are, we are all
human.
We are all, like, basically the same in all of our motivations
and the ways that we carry out things and all of this weird,
we're, you know, at core, we're all the same.
And we can take out that element at all.
You know, if we can take out that element, we can get much closer,
but then the next.
Divisory issue is distance.
It reminds me of the divisions in the hoop.
I'm not saying it's important.
Also, we got about,
we got about one minute and then I have to record again.
We got about one minute and then I have to record again.
Okay.
Can you hold your thought here?
Well, this is basically the end of this story.
The Owl Child, that's the Owl Child story.
And that's what the Owl Child scalp in the bundle.
Yes.
Yeah, well, no, he's enemy scalp.
Well, he's a bonus.
Oh, the Snake Boy scalp.
The Snake Boy scalp with the hoop.
Sometimes also with the dart.
What does it mean, the Snake Boy cried anyway?
The Snake Boy died.
Yeah.
Yeah, well, he cried anyway.
The Snake Man, because when he was being killed,
like in the Q Games, the point systems,
if you're getting killed and you cry,
you know, that's not good.
Okay, we have to stop there.
Hold that thought.
I'll be back.
Okay?
All right, we're back.
Okay, I wanna go back to your question.
What did the humans contribute to the bundle?
And what was the agreement?
What were the agreements also?
Yeah, that's where I wanted to go.
Okay.
Cause I recognize, yeah, I was thinking in terms
of the tangible bundle, which would be the scalps.
Like the humans, the humans robe is in there too,
in essence, but yeah, the agreement,
in like what happened was there wasn't gonna be
an agreement, like the animals had stolen
this human's wife, this human
Matuapi, the white grass was his name,
which is still a family name here.
Um, they had stolen it, the animals had stolen his wife,
the beavers in particular, charmed her, taken her away.
And he was left with a, with a, with an infant son
who had no way to feed.
Oh, and he in turn, stole the beavers' favorite
grandchild, young pup, albino pup, special pup,
and was holding it in ransom.
And there was some negotiations that took place,
but ultimately then the beavers called on all of their,
like all the animals that rely on them,
which are a lot of different animals.
In one way or another, they're connected with the beaver,
with the beavers, and so they called on all of their friends
to come and participate, and they brought their bundle,
and the guy's wife back, and they're,
and transferred him their bundle, which was seven predators
that were dangerous to beavers.
Beavers, wolves, eagles.
Okay, there's seven of them.
Mount Monk.
There's seven of them in that original bundle.
And because Matoyapi, he had had these like,
they weren't dreams, he cried himself to sleep every night
without his wife, without his young wife.
And then this old man was coming to see him.
He didn't know where the old man came from.
Spirit being, was coming to see him and tell him,
uh...
Mopi.
Holy.
The old man was telling him, your wife isn't dead.
This is what's happened, you know, she got too lonely,
because he was a ridiculously skilled trapper.
But it required that he spent all his time with nature.
And he was not spending the time with his girl.
And he wouldn't let her bring her sister.
She was like, can I bring my sister over to the camp?
Because...
She could keep me company.
No, no.
Too many people up here, spook the animals.
Gotta keep a low profile, you know?
Can I go like, stay with my parents and stuff
while you're up here?
Visit with my parents and their clan, hey?
I want you here with me.
I want you here with me.
And so she got, you know, bored and lonely.
And the beavers noticed this.
And then there was a bachelor beaver
that kind of like transformed himself
to look like a handsome young man.
Charmed her to go with him and eventually led her.
What's up?
What's up, Jenny?
You wanna go out?
I think they think there's something outside.
All the dogs are barking and stuff.
It's okay.
It's okay, you guys.
No, there's nothing out there.
Look, I'll look out the door.
See?
Look.
I'm looking out.
There's nobody.
Just a snowy neighborhood.
All right, go to bed.
You guys, chill out.
So,
there wasn't gonna be much of a negotiation
because like they brought this bundle to him
that they considered very sacred.
And they brought his wife back
and they were like, all we want is our pup.
And he refused.
And he refused based on what this old man,
the spirit man had been telling him, hey?
He held on to that pup.
And then this emmoni see
the otter address the other animals and said,
but the nerve of this human being.
Money, they only just arrived here.
And he's making like your most sacred bundle is not enough
for him.
You know, look at the sky.
And this is where right came into the story.
It was through the otter.
The otter was ready to dance.
And he is like, look at this character sitting here.
He's soft, he's slow, he's weak, can't fly,
can't run worth a damn, can't fend for himself.
Why don't we just all gain up on him and eat him,
be done with it, you know?
And this is when the elder beaver
kind of stepped in because the animals were considering it.
It was an obvious solution.
It was an obvious solution.
You know, he wasn't accepting their offer.
It was a good offer.
Fuck this guy.
You know, and who is this guy?
Like he's got, you know, nothing.
So, but the elder beaver said, okay, yeah,
we can like it'd be easy to kill this guy.
You're right.
As far as like a physical challenge to us, it's nothing.
We'll kill this guy like a heartbeat.
But the other humans are gonna learn about this.
There's a lot of other humans.
They're gonna learn about this.
Cause when you do something like that,
you can't keep it secret.
It's gonna come out.
No.
So,
we could go that route
and be done with this tonight right here right now.
But that's not really what I called you here for.
Like I need you guys' help.
I think rather than establishing that as our future
in relation to these humans, these people,
we should maybe help them compensate
for some of their shortcomings.
You know, they're not really adapted to live here.
We've been living here a long time.
Give them some of our knowledge
about how to live here and live here well
in relation to each other and how to,
like all the core stuff, eh?
How to live here.
It's a way of life in this place.
And if we teach them that,
then in turn they will have respect for us.
And they won't just kill us
because they're afraid when they see us.
They'll kill us, some of us, to eat us.
But they'll have respect for us.
We've lived here a lot longer.
All of our,
all of our, you know, the things that we've learned
you know,
estomato we've embodied it.
They haven't embodied any.
They're born and they don't have any of that instinct stuff.
So we will share with them some of what we have
and they practice that in the future.
They'll have that.
And we'll live respectfully.
So that was what the humans ultimately signed up.
Well, that was what the animals ultimately signed on for.
You know, Matuiapi,
you don't really get a sense of whether he was a philosopher
or not.
Or a politician or anything.
He was a trapper.
Right.
But he was told by this old man in these encounters
not to give that pup up,
not to agree to the whole thing until,
until there was a sign that he would recognize.
That it was okay to do that.
And that did come at the end
because all the animals gave things,
gave their robes, gave their songs.
And then the old beavers, you know, again, he's like, okay,
like, look at this, this giant bundle.
And we've given you so much of our knowledge and stuff,
right?
All I want is my pup.
And Matuiapi didn't feel like he'd seen
what he needed to see or like whatever was supposed
to be his cute.
So there's still, there's still people here
who haven't given anything.
And there was, there was these two people,
like each one beside the door to like,
everybody that came to that transformed themselves
to look human-esque.
Like that's part of the story too.
If you really tell the story in a good black foot way,
describe it and describe, you know,
the different animal beings that came in there,
but they tried to make themselves look human-esque
and they were grotesque.
They freaked out Matuiapi so much
he couldn't, he couldn't hardly bear to look at them
because they were so like frightening, you know?
And there was these two,
they were on either side of the lodge door
that had these robes pulled up over their heads,
like buffalo robes.
And those two haven't,
I don't know what's going on there, you know?
They haven't given anything to the bundle.
Who are they?
And then they pulled back their robes
and the one was that old man
that had been coming to him in the night.
And then the other one was an old woman
and they started singing their songs to give to the bundle.
And when they started singing their songs,
then it became immediately apparent
that this is the sun and the moon.
Yeah, Toastie and Kokomiki song.
Yeah.
And they gave a lot of songs.
And then when they were done,
Kokomiki, the night, the night sun,
opened the lodge door and called in this boy
who brought in these two animals
that nobody had ever seen.
One of them was black and one of them was white.
The male was black, the female was white.
And he led these two animals in
and he said that this is,
you know, he started singing songs.
And this was the morning star, of course.
And what he gave to the bundle were the dogs
and the dogs.
The lynx tail is also like the actual person
who embodies the morning star in the ceremony.
Where's the lynx tail?
But he brought domesticated dogs.
Nobody'd ever known them before.
He said this black dog, this male dog
will haul your bundle when you move from camp to camp.
You make a travel and he'll carry your bundle.
This female dog is gonna make more dogs
and you're gonna give these dogs to the humans.
These dogs are gonna protect all the humans.
They're gonna look out for you
whenever any danger's approaching.
They're gonna alert you.
They're gonna get between you and the danger.
And that's what he gave.
And that was when Matoyapi said that he got what was needed.
And he agreed to the treaty
and he would share with the humans what had gone on.
And he would change his name from Matoyapi
to Natotsi and Ibi.
The sun came down.
Brings down the sun, basically.
Yeah, Natotsi and Ibi,
which became another famous name for beaver men.
Now, Al and my elders' grandfather
was one of the, well, was the last that I know,
Natotsi and Ibi, the last brings down the sun,
but he won't be the last.
There'll be others, yeah.
So that's what the humans gave to the bundle.
So that's kind of like,
that's more than I expected to talk about
what a bundle is, but.
You have any questions?
Anything you want to go into?
Yeah, I was talking about Harvard.
I was trying to tell a Harvard story.
I know, we're gonna get back to Mat.
But the human gave the beaver pup back.
The human gave the beaver pup back.
The human gave,
the human gave,
like Natotsi's,
like mutual respect.
Like before, this is a guy who,
his whole operation, his whole life had been,
I'm finding the fanciest looking animals,
killing them, preparing their skins
and selling it to people, trading it, bartering it and stuff.
Like all he was was a killing machine
and very inserted into the natural world.
And it wasn't for food.
It was just for things like robes and stuff, you know?
No, just for getting the fanciest,
you know, the albinos and the mixed color patterns
and different animals and things, you know?
That's what he was known for.
He was the trapper extraordinaire.
That was the original beaver man.
And he gave the pup and he gave respect.
What about the contributions of the sun and moon?
These are not his contributions.
Nope.
Those come in on the side of it.
Those were things he was waiting for.
Right, those came in on the side
of what the animals would offer to him, right?
Okay.
So the pup and mutual respect,
which isn't minor, not trivial.
Anything else?
No, that's basically it.
The mutual respect is the big thing.
The pup is just a symbol, just like his son
who is not able to feed without his mom,
keeping the beaver pup from his parents
is endangering the future generations.
This is what we're talking about.
Yes, yes.
They're just symbols, future generation symbols.
Yes, yes, yes, the children.
Yeah, so in order to save the children,
the future generations,
we must agree to have a mutual respect
where we can coexist.
Yes.
Us with the animals.
And the mainstream culture today does not have that.
No, it's more than that though too,
unless I don't understand something
or I'm making something up.
Can I go on a tangent?
Yes.
A little one?
I work with rattlesnakes.
That's probably out of my income, my annual income,
probably a 10th of it comes from wrangling rattlesnakes
in the heart of Blackford Territory in Lethbridge, where I live.
This is like the nexus of,
this is the heart of Blackford Territory
and there's a huge rattlesnake population,
prairie rattlesnakes.
And I'm the guy that gets called
when a rattlesnake shows up in somebody's yard
and the human being needs something to be done
about it.
You're not allowed here to kill snakes.
It's against the law.
I know in the States, you're still allowed to kill snakes
almost everywhere.
Here in Alberta, where I live,
you are not allowed to kill any of our natural snake species.
You will get up to a $30,000 fine in five years in prison.
Wow.
It's a criminal offense.
So given that you're not allowed to kill a snake,
if you can't just coexist with one real easy,
then you end up calling the rattlesnake guy
and that's me.
I took on that position because I've been around snakes
all my life, but also because of the beaver bundle.
Because I thought this was a way to kind of honor my role
as a beaver man and the rattlesnakes,
this is why I want to go on this tangent,
the rattlesnakes I find are the best symbol in my mind
of that treaty that was made.
Yes, yes, I know where you're going
and please keep going there.
With the beaver bundle.
Yes.
With white grass.
Why are they the best symbol?
Because there are venomous snakes all over the earth.
But only here in the Americas do you find this thing
called a rattlesnake.
And a rattlesnake co-evolved with human presence here.
It's not an old, old thing having rattles on a snake.
It's something that co-evolved with humans.
And I think, if it was a situation where cultures demonized,
so to speak,
it was a situation where cultures demonized,
the snakes, like the mainstream.
Not even so to speak, just straight up demonize them.
Well, yeah.
Well, obviously Christian culture does.
Right.
There's other cultures that just are snake haters
but don't necessarily demonize them.
They're just like, because they don't have rattlesnakes.
They have these other snakes that just fight them
with no warning.
Right.
We have rattlesnakes.
Why do we have rattlesnakes?
Because we agreed to coexist with the animals.
All of the animals, including the rattlesnakes.
There's no way that rattle evolves in a cultural situation
with humans that are going to respond negatively
to that rattle and just kill the snake when they're warned.
That rattle only evolves if it has the effect
that it needs to have, which is to say,
leave me alone and people back off.
That doesn't happen everywhere else in the world
because everywhere else in the world,
they don't have this agreement, maybe, you know?
Yeah.
So let me rephrase what you said.
And now, we've had hundreds of years now
of a different cultural influence here in the Americas.
And we are starting to see pockets of rattlesnakes
that are changing.
There's a Mojave rattlesnake,
where a lot of the young snakes are being born
with a crooked tail that can't rattle.
And there are prairie rattlesnakes,
the same species that are here in Blackfoot territory,
just a couple provinces east of here in Manitoba,
there's a pocket of prairie rattlesnakes
where the newborns are being born without a nub
to form a rattle on.
And herpetologists do believe that this is
because of the persecution of the rattlesnake, you know?
The snake in general.
Yeah.
And that, you know,
now having the rattle is evolutionarily
or natural selection wise, not a good thing here
because of the cultural system of the humans.
In other words, so the rattle
where it doesn't warn the humans off successfully goes away.
It goes away.
Yeah, I mean, if the rattle goes off and people say,
oh, there's a snake there, kill it.
Right, yeah.
Then the rattle goes away.
Yeah, over time.
Yeah, over time, that's the way natural selection works.
Like Blackfoot knowledge is very aligned
with some of the core mainstream science
and ecology knowledge too.
And natural selection is not a, you know,
it all plays in there.
Like, I think that's why we have the rattlesnakes here
is because natural selection playing into
a eco-social situation, a context
where there's an agreement.
We're not just gonna kill something just
because it's here, you know?
Just because it shows up.
There are Blackfoot protocols around,
like if a bird enters into your house,
it flies in on its own kind of thing.
People would kill it.
And I think that's just because of the,
you know, the situation with if you're living in a teepee,
which is always open, it's never entirely closed.
And you start, and you give grant to any birds to come in,
you're gonna have a problem.
Same with anything, like if you, you know,
like there is a beaver story about a mouse.
That started taking up residence in this guy's bundle
and he had a conflict.
Like I'm not supposed to have a problem with the animals.
Right.
But here's this mouse dug into the side of my bundle.
What do I do?
And he ultimately decided to let the mouse live there
and the mouse would go and raid other people's tobacco stores
in the night and bring them back to his bundle.
And so it turned out being a good thing.
There's some songs associated with the mouse.
But, you know, I myself experimented as a beaver man,
letting mice come into my modern house.
It's not a good idea.
They might not bring you tobacco.
No.
And I think in the past letting birds into your teepee
was not a good idea, you know?
Yeah.
But other than that kind of a thing,
that little space that's a controlled space.
Right.
The little, yeah.
Other than that little space,
we're not allowed to kill things other than for food.
You know?
Right, yes.
Yeah, or, you know.
Like there's plants that are used for different things
and stuff, of course.
But, you know, you have to have a good reason
to be taken out some life.
Not just because you're afraid of it
or just because it's a eyesore or whatever, you know?
Like what we do today.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I'm gonna recap this
and then we're gonna start again.
Okay.
The rattlesnakes are a good example of the agreement
because...
They are an excellent example of the agreement
because they have rattles.
Right.
And so they could, if they don't have rattles,
just simply wait till you get close enough to them.
Maybe you don't notice them.
Maybe you're afraid of them, whatever.
Then just bite you.
But because they have rattles, they alert you
and they ask...
They've got another step.
Like all of the venomous snakes,
they're very first self-defense camouflage.
Yes.
So they will just sit very still
and hope that you just pass by.
Right.
But if that doesn't work
and you don't just pass by
and you're gonna injure them, threaten them,
if you come...
I mean, you have to come within four or five inches
of a snake to get bit in reality.
Yeah.
So if you come that close to it,
that means it's life is threatened
and it's gonna bite you.
Now a rattlesnake has one more step
in mitigating that conflict.
That you don't find anywhere else.
You find it in North America
because I think this is the agreement in North America
that we're not just gonna kill each other for being there.
And then under that circumstance, the rattles can evolve.
If you don't have that circumstance,
then all it does is alert the human before it gets bit
to the snake's presence and the human hates the snake
and kills the snake.
Yes.
All right, let me try to recap this one more time.
So the rattlesnake is an example of the agreement.
It gives you a chance to remember, to respect the animal
because it warns you thoughtfully warns you, right?
In a way that everything recognizes this sound, right?
It's a very distinctive sound.
And so where that treaty has been well-kept,
where that agreement has been kept,
the rattlesnakes keep their rattles.
The rattlesnakes keep their rattles.
In some places where that agreement is not kept
by the humans, the rattlesnakes begin to lose their rattles.
That's right.
Now there's no more warning.
And the first thing, the camouflage turns out
to be very problematic for the human
because the human will die.
Yeah, the human can't see them.
Right.
Blind, essentially.
Yeah.
All right, hold that thought.
One more session, I'll be back.
Okay?
Yep, sounds good.
So we're returning from part four.
We've just been talking about the rattlesnakes.
We're returning four part, two part four.
Just wanna mention something that occurred to me.
It's almost as if there's an intergenerational transfer
between the rattlesnakes
and they transfer the rattle to their children.
But then, if the agreement is broken,
that transfer doesn't, it stops happening.
This is just in my mind.
Something happens with the body because, I mean,
like, I mean, maybe it's just,
like if I just follow in natural selection,
there's just always a variety of bodies
and you may or may not be born without the little nub
to make your rattle work or, you know,
your tail might be angled.
I mean, what they're seeing now in those two populations,
the Mojave and the Manitoba prairie rattlesnake
are what they would now consider mutations.
Of course, yes.
Yeah.
That are, you know.
All right, so here we turn to Madge and Harvard.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, so Madge Walters,
oh, she had a photo of her, I've never seen her.
I would like to see her.
In my stories, earlier I mentioned Marlene Walters,
I think who was on the Blackfeet Tribal Business Council
who I was working with with the Land Consolidation Act.
I know sometimes people get like,
wouldn't that the counselor you're working with?
No, no, Madge Walters is a different Walters
than the Marlene.
There is a family of people
on the Blackfeet Reservation named Walters
that are not related to her.
I don't know where they got the Walter name,
but it wasn't through Madge.
Madge was in San Francisco.
She's very wealthy,
or at least in Blackfeet terms she was,
because she was able to use those three young people
to buy a lot of things.
And she was trying to overcome her cancer.
Oh.
She was fully interested.
Like she didn't want just the bundles she wanted,
the story she wanted as much as she could understand.
She was trying to use these things to help herself.
Wow.
And she died.
But when she died, she had a considerable collection
of Blackfeet bundles and other individual sacred items
and stuff.
A whole, like, I mean, I had a big, a thick pile
of correspondence between her and the three young people.
Young people out here.
Ah.
They went into deep.
I'm looking at a letter from her.
Yeah.
In which the final paragraph is,
she's asking someone about artifacts
or they're asking her, and the final paragraph is,
I do not wonder that you feel you cannot pay $600
for the blood bundle.
I've never yet seen one that I think
would be worth that amount.
$600?
My goodness, dude.
That's ridiculous.
Okay, to put that in perspective,
when I transferred into to be a beaver man, I was poor.
And I still, I took a whole year.
My wife and I, well, about eight months.
And everything we could get, we put away.
And we bought things and we put away money
and we bought things to give away to the people
that would come to our transfer.
And our family members came forward.
Well, I should say hers, not mine.
My wife's uncle came forward and gave,
like, you know, gave me like a thousand bucks.
We should bear in mind though that in 1947,
that's approximately equivalent to $8,000 today.
Okay, I think I paid about equivalent
to about 40 to 50,000 today.
I paid enough for an undergraduate education
to get the beaver bundle transferred to me.
Okay.
And that's what people normally pay
to enter into like one of the bigger bundles
or sacred societies here.
Sometimes, like it's not always, like it's not all at once.
Like we probably put 20,000 into our original transfer.
Mm-hmm.
But then we were hosting the ceremonies in Waterton Park.
We had to buy up a, you know, a $2,000 teepee.
We had to haul everything out there
to do our ceremonies, feed everybody.
Like in the time that,
you know, that I was running those ceremonies,
I definitely spent $40,000 to $50,000
on ceremony stuff with our bundle to do, you know,
and that's all the training,
like when you have the bundle, that's your training time.
When you get rid of, when you transfer it on,
then there's kind of a relaxed period.
Most times for beaver bundles, there's no relax.
Like the other bundles in the system,
usually we have them,
maybe three, four years, transfer them.
Another care keeper and you get a break.
While that next care keepers taking care of them,
and the one after that will come approach you
as an elder to teach them.
And then you have to get back into actual working
with it and that kind of thing.
And as an elder, I mean, even though you're making,
like it's all this stuff is sacrifice stuff.
And you're sacrificing a lot.
And that's because, you know, you're learning a lot
and you're getting a lot of social cache with it as well.
But it's a huge responsibility
to be the keeper of a living library.
Yeah.
Huge.
I like how it happens.
It's in me.
And that's, you know, that's a thing.
Like it's not written down.
Yes.
You know, it's in me.
Yes.
I, you know, you become the living library.
Yes, yes.
And you pay for that.
But that's what, I mean, it makes you a resource.
It's an investment in a way, you know.
Because you do, you do like,
like that's how the elders are ultimately like
taken care of, you know?
Like they,
they don't got to work their whole lives
because they got to, like, this isn't the Western system.
There's no fucking, there's no fucking retirement.
Yeah.
And so
it provides a way for the elders to be taken care of
because they have this role and the role
is not merely valuable monetarily.
There's reverence for the role.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
So Harvard and match.
Okay. So match.
She died.
She died with a considerable blackfoot collection.
All of which her daughter sold to the Denver Art Museum.
Now the Denver Art Museum comes in possession.
I mean, they, they paid, I don't know what they paid for it.
It's probably, I probably got the paperwork on it.
Mahoney does anyway, my wife, Max's wife.
Mahoney has the paperwork for it in our, in our records.
What, what the Denver Art Museum paid for it.
Cause I have all that shit.
I got everything.
But basically they, museums
that try to create ethnographic collections
are basically most, most of the, or at least at that time.
Today's a weird thing cause museums are just trying
to salvage themselves and this is, this is not going to happen.
But in those times, when, when, when, when Mad Walter passed on,
this would have been like probably the 1950s.
I think, if I remember correct.
The museums were still like,
if they, if they had ethnographic collections,
they wanted a good representation of each culture.
What they got from Mad Walter's was five representations
of blackfoot culture.
Cause they had five or more of everything.
Oh my gosh.
She had so much stuff, dude.
And so Denver Art Museum started selling it and trading.
They were like, okay, we got a blackfoot,
Beaver Bundle, Thunderpipe, Hornspipe Bundle,
MotoPeak Society Bundle,
so the Smithsonian, we're looking at,
you got a Klamath this and a Calapuya that,
and you know, that we don't have, you know,
to make our more, our collection more complete.
Let's do a trade.
So Mad Walter's collection went all over the fucking place
to all the major museums.
Denver Art Museum kept a core.
Their little Noah's Ark of blackfoot culture
and then everything they didn't need it as second,
version of, they sent everywhere else.
Yeah, yeah.
So the Beaver Bundle that I found in the Peabody Museum
in Harvard was one of these from Mad Walter's.
Harvard didn't have that piece to their collection yet.
So they had got it from the Mad Walter's collection
at Denver Art Museum.
And they got it for something like $350.
But Magic got it for, I think, $50.
Sure.
Yeah.
And you can see here,
a kind of a terrifying trend
that's just going to continue.
Where the indigenous people are so poor
that they're selling their sacred history
to the Colonials for a pittance.
Well, that was happened.
That's not anymore.
Yes.
And I have to kind of explain this too,
because when I say it's like 1950,
in the United States that 1940s and 1950s,
when Mad Walter's came up here was 1940, early 1940s.
And she kept collecting into the 1950s and then she died.
And then it went to Denver Art Museum
and then from there it dispersed everywhere else.
Now, when I'm talking about the 1940s and 50s,
in Canada, it's a different situation
in the United States with Indians and stuff.
All right.
In the United States, in 1924,
there was something called the Indian Reorganization Act,
a national policy that went through
that drew an end to the era supposedly of forced assimilation.
That said, you can keep your culture now.
We want diversity here in the United States.
You can keep your culture.
We're gonna remove the residential schools
from your reserves.
We are going to remove the federal Indian agents
from your reserves.
We are going to let you make your own bound councils
to control your communities.
We are going to let you control your own schools
and all that stuff.
And you can leave your reserve
and participate in the national economy if you want.
And in fact, we will offer you incentive
and move you will help you get established
in either San Francisco or Chicago.
My grandma went to Chicago.
But this was in 1924 in the United States.
The same kind of federal legislation
did not happen here in Canada until 1968.
So 1970s was the big time of change here,
1960s, 70s, where like,
the language was lost.
I mean, that happened in the 20s, 30s in the States
with most of the tribes
through the Indian Reorganization Act.
Again, it's the economic incentive.
You can come off reserve and make some money.
Yeah, if you wanna come live in the city.
Yeah, come live in the city and you gotta learn English.
Right.
That happened in the 20s there.
It happened in the 60s here.
So it's a different timeline.
Yeah.
So when Swensunder brought Madge from Montana into Alberta,
he is bringing her into a world that was three,
four decades late from what she's used to.
I see, yeah.
I mean, for her, it's a treasure trove,
but it's a terrifying situation.
Yeah.
For the indigenous people.
Yeah, a lot of shit was lost to her and these young guys.
They didn't even know what they're selling.
No, and they didn't give a fuck.
Right, they just wanted some whiskey or whatever,
I'm guessing.
Well, these guys, they were just trying to get,
but like, if you watch like a really good,
if you wanna look at some, go to the,
what is it, the fucking Canadian Film Board website
and watch Circle of the Sun and then Standing Alone
and then the last roundup.
And these are three different films,
bio documentaries on the late Pete Standing Alone,
who made the first film, Circle of the Sun,
when he was about 25 and then the second film,
Standing Alone when he was about 50
and then the last roundup when he was about 75
and you'll see when he's 25 years old,
he thinks the sun dances, he thinks all the ceremony stuff
is just for the old people.
He doesn't think it's for him.
Yeah.
He thinks it's for the old people
and he thinks it's going away.
And the whole documentary is about how it's going away.
Oh, this is, it's gone, right?
This is the last of this fucking thing.
The whole way of life is going away.
Supposedly, but 25 years later, he's become in the elder.
Nice.
Or he's in the society.
He's in the core of the society,
he's 25 years later and stuff.
He's living it.
His parents have died and ricocheted him
into a situation where he suddenly respects
what this tradition has to offer.
His parents died on the highway.
And, you know, 25 years after that,
he's the elder, elder of the horns.
Like he's one of the top two elders
and they do the third film, Narciss did that film.
But, and then I interviewed him.
At the, we had a private screening
of the last roundup, his third film
at Red Cross College with the guys
from the Canadian Film Board.
And they asked just like three or four of us
to give him questions.
And I asked him, cause he was 80 years old at the time.
And he was really in good physical standing, you know?
Like he was still, like his mind was all there.
His body was still, you know, pretty good.
Like he wasn't, like he was standing straight
and walking good and he was healthy and skinny
and all that shit.
So I told him, Pete, my question,
what's your secret?
You know, you're 80 years old, you look so good.
Girl still like you.
What's up?
How'd you get that way?
He said there's three secrets.
So first of all, you know, you're, you're only human.
And every once in a while, you got to let yourself indulge.
He was talking specifically about beer.
You know, nothing at the door.
I just standing up, he's like, you can get it.
You can buy a case of beer once a week and get hammered,
get really drunk and enjoy yourself.
And there's nothing wrong with that,
but you don't do it every day.
What's the number two?
You got to change wives every, you know, five, six years.
He had, he had changed wives several times in his lifetime.
And he kind of jokingly said, I've been with Betty now
more than 10 years.
I think this is the end.
No, it was, but number three,
stick with the young people.
Don't worry about the old people, they're going out.
Forget about those guys.
Stick with the young people.
And that was something that I know was not bullshit at all,
that he learned from his horses
because he'd expressed it to me in other ways many times.
But he's basically like, if I want to,
if I want to work on something new,
I don't work with my old horses.
You know, I raised the young horses into it.
Yes. Yeah.
All right, so we were going on a journey
to learn something about Harvard.
Well, we learned about, we learned about
Madge Walters a little bit.
Yeah. Yeah, Harvard that I want to get back to.
That's the core story.
So the beaver bundle that was on the
accessions list that I received when I went to Harvard
the first time
after they kind of like gave me that they tried to shake me off.
Right. So you're going to have to book
months in advance and this kind of thing to do research, blah, blah, blah.
And I'd call their bluff.
And I'm like, OK, come down.
And then they showed me the list that they had of the
what they had in their collections that were Blackfoot
and a beaver bundle was high up on the list, like second,
second to human remains, which they thought we would go after.
That's not Blackfoot protocol.
Like we don't we just deal with living.
The bundles we consider still be living.
Not the not the dead. Yes.
So.
I went straight after the bundle.
That day, looking at the accessions records,
taking my notes, all that stuff.
And then I went through all their other shit
and I looked at everything that they had that day.
I just spent the whole day
going through their accession records on everything they had,
figured out how they got it, where they got it, how much they paid,
what they did, you know, how everything that, you know, that I could
from everything that they had, I had at that point.
So I went home with that information.
I was going to enter it into my database
that I'm given to the tribe.
And that night.
I got a call from.
George.
What's his last name?
Horse Capture.
He's not black.
Where is he from?
Try to remember.
It's from another tribe in Montana.
I want to say he's Grovan, but I'm not sure.
George Horse Capture.
This is the Smithsonian's Indian.
And George calls me.
And says, who the fuck are you, basically?
Not in not in too much of a different tone than that, you know,
like, hey, we got a letter from you at the Smithsonian.
I see you've got, you know,
I see you've got real old persons.
Permission and all of this, but I don't know who you are.
I don't know what you think you're doing.
I think you're probably disempowering.
The Blackfoot community doing what you're doing.
I don't think I'm going to send you any of the Smithsonian's data.
I think you can fuck off.
This is basically George Horse Capture's message to me.
So I went over to my,
to my advisor
at the University of Massachusetts and told him, you know,
I got this weird phone call from George Horse Capture.
This is what he said to me.
I get it, you know, he's like, yeah, I get it too.
What do I do about it?
I don't know.
Just leave it for now.
I guess I'm not getting Smithsonian stuff or whatever.
Right.
So it's kind of left it a couple of days later.
I get another phone call and this is from Joyce Boone Hunter.
So Joyce Boone Hunter is the first cousin of Marlene
Bear Walters, who was the tribal council member who I was working
most closely with on the Blackfeet Tribal Business Council
previously.
So this is her first cousin and Joyce calls me, Joyce is the
person on the federal register for the Native American Graves
Protection and Repatriation Act.
And that act just happened to come out like that year.
It's 1995.
That act was signed.
I mean, I guess it was written in 1990, but it was only signed
by George Bush in 1995.
And I didn't even know shit about it.
I mean, I kind of understood about repatriation stuff a little
bit from the literature.
My mentor had shown me, but I didn't know about NAGPRA.
The Native American Graves Protection Repatriation Act.
I didn't know about repatriations with museums.
All I thought was that I was putting together a guide of where
the shit was in the world so that people could find stuff to
look at, to learn, you know?
Yeah.
And so Joyce calls me up and she's like, she's the person who's
listed on the federal register, and she was trained by George
Horse Capture at the Smithsonian, the guy who had called me a
few days earlier.
And so she calls me up and she's upset.
She's mad.
She's like, I don't know what you think you're doing, but like
you're doing my job.
I'm the person on the federal register for repatriation.
I'm supposed to be collecting the inventories for our tribe.
And I'm hearing from all these museums that they're getting this
inquiry from you.
Who are you?
What's going on?
So I told her, hey, you know, I was on the phone with her.
But hey, man, I'm not trying to step on any of these feet or
anything.
I was working with Earl and Marlene and just trying to try to
pull in inventories from these museums.
I don't know anything about this dag press stuff, but let me tell
you something like within walking distance from me, there's a
beaver bundle at Harvard's museum.
I just was in their accessions the other day.
I'll send you all my information about it, but they have a beaver
bundle right here.
And she did a whole 180 on me like in a heartbeat and was like,
do you think you can go over there and start negotiating to
bring it home?
And I was like, yep.
I think that's it.
Yeah, totally.
Right.
So Joyce Spoonhunter invited me into repatriation.
She was the lead for the Blackfeet Nation on repatriation.
She's the only person listed on the Federal Register for it.
And she's the one that said, Ryan, can you go negotiate this?
So I did.
I contacted Harvard.
I said I'm interested in coming to have a meeting talking about
bringing that beaver bundle out of the museum back to the
community.
I'm representing the community.
And they said, well, we have this new repatriation liaison
called Emery Victor Scout.
Emery Victor Howe.
Sorry.
Emery Victor Howe.
And she'll help you.
So Emery gets in contact with me to schedule a meeting.
And she is very, very French.
Like overwhelmingly French accent.
And I don't know, dude.
I was probably 23, 24.
My goodness.
I was dealing with dealing with a middle-aged, you know, French
academic working at Harvard.
And I know what the fuck to do.
So I bought two bottles of wine.
From the Willamette Valley where I grew up in Oregon.
Really good wine.
Really good shit.
And when I went to Harvard to meet with Emery,
I brought this wine as a gift.
And she was like, Ryan,
do you buy me this one because I'm French?
No, are you French?
I didn't even know.
Somehow or another, I won Emery's heart.
I think it, I don't know.
I feel like it was kind of through the wine thing,
but that was just a gateway.
I think I would have won her anyway.
I won her heart, like really won her heart.
Like she was in love with me.
She was married.
You know, but she loved me.
And right away, she was like,
she was like, okay, we have to be very careful.
You know, this means that they're going,
they're going to try to stop this repatriation.
You know, like she started fucking coaching me, dude.
This is where they're going to,
this is the angle in the law that they're going to use against you.
You have to make sure you craft your argument against this
and against this.
And she fucking taught me how to craft a repatriation claim
to beat Harvard.
Wow.
And it was, it was beautiful.
Yeah.
And, you know, and they had to go through with it.
Yeah, I mean, this is where Harvard School of Law is.
It didn't put her in good terms with the museum.
Of course.
Yeah.
Not surprising.
They didn't, they, and they didn't know the full extent of like how
she'd helped me either.
You know, right.
Um, they just thought she was the go between,
but she, she was really like, I would give her, okay,
this draft and she'd be like, Oh, look out for that sentence.
They're going to pick that apart, you know,
and she really, she really coached me to help me.
So where I could fight every other museum after that without a
problem, you know, yeah.
There was a transfer there.
There was.
Right.
She transferred you the power to fight museums.
She did.
She did.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Can you hold that thought?
Yep.
Okay, I'll be back as soon as the processing is done.
So this is actually part six.
And we talked about her helping you understand how to argue
against Harvard.
The museum she works for.
Yeah.
To succeed in repatriating.
Blackfoot traditional longings.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that was, that was Emery Victor.
She, she helped, she helped me out to make sure I had a
successful, successfully written claim.
Um,
the only person who can sign off on that, of course, is Joyce
Spoonhunter on the federal register.
So Harvard wanted.
So Joyce intended.
To send a group of elders out here to pick up the bundle.
But Harvard wanted her to come physically.
View it.
And sign off.
And.
Okay, something about coming back to the, the, the categorization
of things.
I mentioned something earlier.
In the Harvard, in, in the, in the Peabody Museum.
The Peabody Museum was, you know, not originally like a
cultural museum.
I think it was originally a paleontological museum, actually.
Ah.
But it was, it was much more a natural history museum.
It was a cultural museum to begin with at Harvard.
And all of the beaver bundle.
Had been parsed out.
Throughout the storage areas.
To conform with categories.
Oh, no.
You know, it's like dissecting your father.
And putting different pieces in different boxes based on which
function you think the piece had or some ridiculous, even worse
thing.
Yeah, so.
So, you know, beaver pelts go over here in their museum
storage.
Goose loon pelts or whatever go over here.
Artifacts.
Human made things go over here and are separated into all of
these different categories.
So the beaver bundle was spread all over the museum.
All over the museum.
Was there a central index of what the beaver bundle originally
contained that you could work from?
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, there was, there was a, there was an original inventory.
But for the most part, they had.
All of the things.
All of the items of the bundle.
What was, what was really missing was this bag.
They call them.
Corn husk bags now, but that's just a colonial era thing.
There's a type of a basketry bag, almost like a purse.
That was made on the, on, on, like, just, just over the mountains
from here, Salish Kootenai, those, you know, those areas.
Those bags were very complicated to make.
It wasn't like, I mean, normal Native American basketry itself is
very complex and, and like God, there's not even a market that,
that, that really pays what it's worth in the world, you know,
for, for, for the kind of artistry that goes into normal basketry.
But these bags are especially like even the skilled artisan is good.
Take them a long, long time to make these bags.
They're tightly woven hemp bags with, with designs and, you know,
with, with dyed designs on them and such.
Corn husk bags they're called today.
But there was an old, like in the beaver bundles, the corn husk bags.
It's a trade item and obviously like a super luxurious one.
And it's used to hold your, your seven rattles.
It's a rattle bag in the beaver bundle.
And so this bundle came to Harvard with one of those bags,
but Harvard could not find the bag.
And then they let me through the storage with Anne Marie.
And we could not find the bag.
So we think the bags gone from the museum.
A lot of things have disappeared in the years from sure.
And we think that's gone.
And so we get the, we get the rest of it all together in a room and stuff.
And Joyce is going to, Joyce is, they want Joyce to come and identify it.
Make sure that's the beaver bundle sign off on it.
She has to physically see it.
No bullshit.
Yeah.
But the tribe won't send her.
Black, black feet nation at the time was just not going to invest.
Send her out there for it.
Meaning they won't pay for it.
They won't pay for her to get a plane ticket in the hotel to come out and do
what she needs to do to bring that bundle home.
Oh my God.
She's the only person on the federal register who can do it.
Only the single only person.
And they, they won't fly her out there to do it.
Wow. So I, so I fly her out there.
And she stays at my apartment.
And we go into a meeting with the director of the museum.
Whose name I don't even remember as well as Ann Marie Victor how.
I know her first name Barbara.
I know that because every used to bitch at me all the time about Barbara.
So I remember her.
That's why I think I remember Susan too.
But Barbara meets us in this fancy room.
At a long table.
And there's art.
Paintings of all of these like Harvard presidents or something.
Right.
Around the room.
And me and Joyce are there.
Sitting across the long table from Emory Victor how and Barbara.
And Barbara says, you have to appreciate this is Harvard.
She was, she was a British.
British accent.
But in her British accent, see, she said, you have to appreciate this is Harvard University.
That was her opening line.
And Joyce retorted.
With not a fucking delay.
You need to appreciate.
I'm from the black feet nation.
And our men are ready to come over here on horseback.
And take this fucking bundle back, you know, they shouldn't say fucking.
But she said, we're gonna come over here and take it.
We don't care about her.
Nothing.
Means nothing to us.
Yeah.
And that's where we started that day.
Wow.
I just had a duty to do like the process in Oregon, like the legal argument.
I had already sealed it, dude.
I'd already sealed it.
It just had to be signed off.
I made it happen.
I fucking brought her there.
And housed her and wrote her to the museum and wrote her the airport and got her off back home and all that shit.
To sign off on that beaver bundle.
But a month later,
a group of elders showed up in Boston.
I thought that they would know what they were there for.
Nope.
This group that showed up.
They were on a tour. There's this was a.
This was a group of elders.
From all four of the different blackfoot tribes.
So it included Carol Murray from.
From.
I'm Scott B. B. Gunny, the Southern Blackfoot.
In Montana.
And Tom black weasel.
From I'm Scott B. B. Gunny in Montana.
It included Alan part.
From a pathos B. B. Gunny in Alberta.
It included Frank weasel head.
Martin heavy head.
Who would who would become my father-in-law.
Narciss blood who would become my best friend for two decades.
Less he lee.
Annabelle cross beard wolf.
Alvin mountain horse from the bloods.
Did we have anyone from six at the.
I think we did.
All right. So it was only three of the four.
Tribes represent, but they all came in. They flew in and they were on tour.
They were going to Chicago.
And then.
Boston and then Washington DC.
Or no.
No Boston was their last place. I think they just went to Chicago and Boston.
That trip.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I'll tell you the Washington trip.
Because I was there actually, but.
Yeah, they went, they went to Chicago and then the Boston.
And they just thought that they were going to be touring the museum.
So Joyce never told them that they were picking up a bun.
Like, I don't know what the fuck.
You know, really myself.
You know, a lot of my, a lot of, I don't want to talk bad about choice, but anyway.
It was, it was weird to me that, that, that I had to fly her there.
To me that the elders that came there pick up the bundle didn't even know what the,
what the heck was going on.
And then I went to the airport.
I like rented a van.
I knew they were coming.
I had a whole plan. Hey, we were going to go pick up the bundle at the museum.
And then, and then I was going to take them.
I knew they, they're playing flight wasn't for a couple of days.
So I was going to take them out of the city.
Into Connecticut to Fox woods.
To the, to the Mashantucket Pequot tribe.
There's a big casino hotel there.
It's a lot of fun.
And we were going to stash up there for a couple of days and then go back to their.
Flights and such, right?
So I rented, I rented a van.
Like a 10 person van or something like a big van, you know,
and I went to the airport to pick them up and I missed them.
Somehow they'd got taxis or something.
They got, they got to their, their first hotel.
And so I drove over there and I talked, talked to somebody there.
I can't even remember who I, who I'd met there.
It might have been less Healy.
Might have been Narciss.
I can't remember.
But the gist of it was, all right, well, we're, we're,
we'll, we'll see you in the morning and come pick us up and we'll go to the museum.
And, and so, and that was, that was what, you know, was intended anyway.
I was just going to try to give my ride to their hotels and they didn't have to pay for taxis.
You know, sure.
But anyway, so in the morning, I went over there to pick them up that they were already going,
got in my van and everything.
And we started going, driving, I started driving over to Harvard.
And I was telling them, yeah, we got the beaver bundle, like everything stashed off in one room.
But it's all pulled apart because I, you know, I told them how they've had it all over the museum, you know.
And so, you know, you guys are going to need to like put it back together and sing it out of there.
You know, and I've seen them like looking at each other like, what the fuck.
What's going on, you know, what, what.
They had no idea.
They didn't know who I was. They thought I was somebody working for Harvard.
They had no idea they were there to pick up a bundle.
It was all hitting them off guard.
And, but they rolled with it.
You know, I've known these people for the rest of my life now, you know, this is this is decades later.
It's, it's great to be able to like think back on this and think, you know, they were all in that predicament and they just fucking, they were just rolling with their like, yeah, fuck, yeah, we're going to take a bundle.
You know, they didn't question nothing. Didn't ask a question. They just, you know, we're going with whatever. What does this guy say? Okay.
So I can see them kind of like, kind of like figuring out, you know, who's going to do what and shit, right.
And Alan was the only one that, you know, Alan and Frank, hey, seem to be the ones that like all the locusts were on, you know, all of the fucking, you know, you guys are going to really have to handle this stuff.
We get to the museum and we go into the room where all the bundle components are.
And Alan starts like physically putting the bundle together.
And Frank is like discussing things with him as he's doing it.
I don't know what the hell they're saying because they're talking in Blackfoot.
Martin calls me over to him because he's picked up this like tobacco cutting board from the, from the bundle.
And Martin calls me over to me, he's like, what kind of wood is this?
He thinks he worked for the museum.
Still, no.
I don't know what he thinks.
Yeah.
Well, all of them think I worked for the museum.
I think you're an academic.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Right.
We don't know what they thought.
Of course, it's true.
Yeah, but I don't know what kind of wood it is either.
Of course.
Yeah, it's just a, it's a very martini kind of question though.
You know, of all the, of all the things to be curious about, he wants to know what kind of wood that tobacco cutting board is made of.
And I think Narciss and Annabelle are looking through my photographs because I went through the whole Peabody collection.
Before they came.
Everything in storage.
And there's some, there's some really.
The Peabody has the coolest, like most Indiana Jones storage.
Of, of all the museums, the Smithsonian has the most guarded.
Like to get into the Smithsonian's and well, that's a, I'll tell that when that story comes.
Yeah.
You can back to off just a little bit.
Thanks.
Yeah.
I'll tell you about how you get into Smithsonian.
When we get, when we get to the Smithsonian, but Harvard has the coolest.
Secret little chambers and shit full of like, like little tiny, like elf-like doors that you have to climb little ladders to go through.
And you, and you move through this little door and it opens up into this gigantic fucking storage.
Of world treasures.
Well, you know.
Um.
Harvard. Yeah. Sorry.
I can see myself in the camera. I know how I'm depicted myself.
Okay.
I just want to see your whole face because I want to see your facial expressions.
There we go. Yeah.
Um,
So I've, I've taken pictures of everything in Harvard.
That's black foot that is listed as black foot. They may have other things.
And that, that, that's other stories. I've gone back there for other things.
But, um,
But I took pictures of everything and there is a pipe in there.
And a headdress.
In storage that are, are very interested into the horn society. And, um,
That pipe is what's called a Caesar's pipe.
It's a whole different kind of bundle that's now,
I don't know if we'll be able to renew it.
Alan could have.
Um,
But it didn't get there.
There were, there were components we were looking for. They had the pipe.
And we could have made the other components even, but.
Anyway, um,
Harvard had the pipe and they had this headdress.
And
Narcissus and Frank, we're looking at my pick or Narcissus and, uh, and Annabelle, we're looking at my pictures.
And then
And probably I'll be this narcissist wife.
And, um,
And then they start asking Barbara.
If, uh, we could go look at those things.
Hey.
And so, um,
And then they're, and then in the midst of that, someone brought up like, where's the rattle bag?
I think Alan, I think Alan was like, where's the bag? You know, it's on this original list.
And they were like, Oh, we looked for it. And he's like, uh,
If you guys are going into storage, why don't you look again?
Ah.
So we went off on a journey, a bunch of us from the group, probably half the group.
I know Narcissus was in it.
Frank was in it.
Alvin.
I think Annabelle was with us.
We went off to, to, to, and Carol.
Murray.
Most important.
Was with us.
From, from, um, Scoppy pecan from the Southern Blacks.
And so we went off looking and first we went into the exhibit.
And they opened up the glass case.
So we could look at the, at the women's society headdress that they had on exhibit.
Oh yeah.
So we took a look at it.
And Narcissus told the museum, you know, this is a very important told Barbara.
This is in a very important, um, headdress from our women's society.
Um, but because you are willing to give us the beaver bundle back,
we promise we will never ask for this headdress in the future.
Hmm.
Now he did that.
I subsequently learned.
Because it was a few days.
One of the, one of the headdresses that the boys had made.
And sold to.
Madge Walters.
There was BS.
Yeah.
Look, just like the real thing.
Yeah.
But you know what gave it up.
No sign.
No paint.
Around the brim anywhere.
Like the people who would have worn it would have been painted.
Yeah.
So they knew it was a fake.
Yes.
So that's in Harvard.
And no way.
Did you guys find the bag?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's still going on with the story.
That was just the exhibit.
Then we went to storage.
We went into the storage and the first things that the people,
you know, were interested in was like Frank.
Being a horn society elder.
Um, and in the napsca, which is very much like a Caesar's pipe almost
like Caesar's pipe is it kind of in between.
Beaver pipes and, and thunder pipes.
But, um,
Frank was really interested in seeing those things.
And so we went up into that secret little.
That little like Elf door storage area,
the really cool area where that shit was.
And, um, pulled those things out.
And Frank was telling Barbara.
When the, the headdress was in front of him.
He got.
Really a serious look in his eye.
And he is telling Barbara.
I have the transfers for this.
Headdress.
I can put it on.
And walk out of this museum and there's nothing you can do about it.
And, you know, I think he had her, he had her scared, you know,
like this is, this is this British woman in fucking Massachusetts that,
like, she ain't used to dealing with prairie Indians.
You know, right.
And, uh, Frank was, Frank was putting, like putting it on.
Like he was, like he was going to like, I'm, I'm,
I'm going to take off with this. Fuck you.
See what, see what we're going to do. Call the cops. Let's see what happens.
You know, what kind of shit show this starts.
Right. Yeah.
Um, so he threatened her and then he backed off.
You know, played, played with her a little bit and backed off.
So we looked at the Caesar's pipe. We looked at the headdress, you know,
they got to, they got to check them out and everything.
And then, um, and then we went looking for the bag.
We went down the, down the storage area where the bag is supposed to be.
And we were walking to where the bag was supposed to be.
We weren't in that area yet.
I mean, we were, we were in the basket trees.
Stuff area where there's stuff like that,
but we weren't supposed to be in the stack where that was.
But Carol heard something singing.
And stop and open the drawer.
And pulled out the bag.
Yeah.
There it was with the number and everything.
Wow. Carol Murray.
Yeah.
There were other, there were other corn husks bags in there.
It was like, we, we, it's like, she just, I don't know how she, like,
she said she heard singing, but.
The museum didn't even think to check in that area with, obviously,
there was other corn husks bags there.
Yeah, right. They're the category system, right? Yeah.
It was, it was a drawer with a bunch of them.
And, and she just kind of like went through them and there was the one with the
right number.
She pulled it out and it looked old as fuck like it should.
Yeah.
No rattles though.
What's that?
The rattles. Oh, the rattles were already with the bundle.
Oh, really? Wow.
We're just missing the back.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So we went back up.
You know, by that time, the bundle was put together.
They just had to put the rattles in the bag.
And then we sang it out of there.
And you know what song Alan chose to sing to lead it out of there?
Carol, Carol, Carol carried the bundle.
And she would soon become transferred a beaver bundle.
And Alan was not transferred a beaver bundle yet,
but he was transferred that bundle.
That was his first beaver bundle that I took out of Harvard.
He became milder for the beaver bundles later.
And were there any bundles alive among people?
There was, at that time, yeah, there was, there was, there was two.
One of them owned by Adolf and Beverly Hungry Wolf.
And another owned by Paul Rasker.
Basically that, you know, like none that were really like inside the tribe.
I mean, Paul, Paul, you know, Paul's like none of them were like,
oh, like both of those bundles were functional and everything that they were like,
once Alan got going, that's when the beaver bundles started back up.
You know.
And his teacher was Mike Swimsunder,
who was the same teacher for the other two for Adolf and Paul too.
He was really the last beaver man, you know, the last survivor.
He had, he grew up with it, his parents had a beaver bundle.
And when his dad died, he took his dad's role.
And taking care of it with his mom.
And then when his mom died, people stopped coming to the ceremony.
And then when people stopped coming to the ceremony, he took his bundle and brought it to the river and gave it back.
Gave it back to the water.
He thought it was done.
And that was like in 1960, something he did that.
And then, you know, mid 1990s,
we're bringing beaver bundles back.
Sexy too.
And, yeah, we brought that one back from Harvard.
And that was transferred to Alan.
Now, the song that was sung coming out of the museum was the Snake Man song when he cried anyway.
Really?
The victory song, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was, that was a song Alan saying, bringing the beaver bundle out.
And everybody climbed in that van.
And I was like shaking hands.
They were all nervous.
They're like, come on, come on.
Like we just robbed the bank.
Get out of here.
We got this bundle.
Let's go.
Yeah.
Before they change their minds.
Yeah, exactly.
But yeah, we went out, we went out to a mash and tuck it.
Everybody enjoyed the casino.
Had a good time.
Brought it brought him back to Boston.
Everybody got their plane back.
But Carol and Tom had an extra day.
And Carol was the one actually bringing the beaver bundle back.
Had to go through Montana first.
And.
And so.
Yeah, Carol.
Carol and Tom spent an extra day with me.
I got to tour them around Boston and stuff and show them my place.
And we had a good time.
I got to know Carol really well.
She ended up becoming the female elder.
For the beaver bundle when I got transferred.
So she taught Adrian.
And when did the bundle leave the museum?
That was May of 1996.
I started negotiating, I think.
You know, October of November, the first of the previous year.
So it wasn't, it wasn't that long a thing to go through.
But it was, I was intense.
It was my whole life at that time.
You know.
I felt like it was a really intense experience.
And when one side, when one said got, got that bundle out of the museum.
The sense that I felt was that like.
I've done something.
You know, like, okay.
If I, if I, if I fucking die, it's okay.
Because I've done something.
So, that bundle went home, Allen got transferred, and then about a month later, Joyce Spoonhunter
calls me and says, hey, you know that group of elders that came up to Harvard to pick
up that bundle?
Yeah?
So, oh, they're going on another tour.
They're going to be in Washington, D.C., and then New York, and then Chicago.
I can't go with them, but somebody really needs to be there to document the collections.
Do you think you could do it?
So yeah, I used what was left of my GI bill, went on tour with the elders.
I went to meet them in Washington, D.C., they had no idea I was coming.
Joyce didn't tell them.
I showed up at the Smithsonian, or no, was it at the Smithsonian?
No, it was at the hotel that we were going to stay at that night, I think.
But it was a very regal hotel.
I don't know where we were staying, but it was good duds.
And I remember seeing four or five of the elders sitting on a marble bench in the foyer.
Hold that thought.
Yeah.
I'm sorry about this, but four elders sitting on the marble bench will be back.
So we left four elders sitting on the marble bench in which museum?
This is in Washington, D.C.
I can't remember if I actually met them at the Smithsonian to begin with, or at our hotel.
I think it was probably at our hotel.
But it was very regal, it was right down by the mall somewhere, it was fancy digs.
That night, I just remember it was very kind of a romantic night.
I came into, there were four or five people on the bench.
There was somebody I didn't know, a young woman, but others that I've met from before.
And I think Narciss and Martin were there.
I think, and on that bench.
And I think it was one of the two of them that was like, you know, oh, you came all the
way from Harvard, you know, like, what are you doing here?
You know, I thought you were with Harvard, I'm like, no, no, no, no.
That's where I explained it right there at that bench.
Ah, they still didn't know.
They didn't know the whole time.
No.
Oh, my goodness.
They still thought I was from Harvard.
Wow.
Um, so, yeah, I think one of the guys was Narciss because at that point we rented a limousine.
And I was in the limousine, I know, with Narciss and Alvin, his wife, and the young woman
who was Margaret Croppierd-Wolf, the one who I didn't know, the new player in the group.
And we drove around Washington, D.C. that night and looked at all the cool sights.
Like we were like, you know, to the limo driver, you know, take us to the Lincoln Memorial,
take us to this, take us to that.
We just went to all the cool sights and looked at them with the night light shining on them
and all that stuff, you know.
It was our opportunity, really, like we weren't going to have time.
We were going to see the museum the next day, and then we were going to be off to New York.
So it was that night to see Washington, D.C. for that.
I'd already been there, but it was a different kind of visit.
And so it was fun.
I toured that night with Narciss and Alvin and Margaret and went around to those all
around Washington, D.C. and had fun.
And then the next day, we went to the Smithsonian.
And the Smithsonian security is the highest order.
Like I was in military intelligence.
I was a signals intelligence analyst in the U.S. Army in 98 Charlie.
I worked top secret missions and stuff.
And like the areas that I worked were not nearly as protected as the Smithsonian's museum storage.
So to get into the Smithsonian's museum storage, what you have to do is go right down to the mall.
You have to have it set up beforehand, of course.
But when the time has come and your day is there and your appointment's there,
you're going to go into storage in the Smithsonian.
You go down to the mall to the appropriate museum.
Mine was the Natural History Museum.
And you give them your passport and driver's license.
And in exchange for that, they give you a identification card that lets you onto a bus.
That bus drives you out of Washington, D.C. into Maryland, to a storage facility that is just...
It looks like I've seen lots of maximum security prisons in my life across the country.
It looks like a maximum security prison.
It's all razor wire, double set perimeter.
And you go through a gate that the van driver takes you through a gate.
You pull up to the facility.
And when you go in the doors, you exchange your badge that they gave you at the museum
for a badge at the storage place and you fill out some paperwork about yourself.
Just basic stuff, you know, because they've already set this up.
And basically you're just signing in, you're taking a badge and all this.
And then they assign you an escort.
And so for each member of our party, there was a Smithsonian escort to go through the facilities with us.
Wow.
And it's massive.
Hey, their facility is massive.
Yeah, they got a lot of stuff.
And I've been at the new facility next door to that now as well, which is the new facility for the American Museum of the National Museum of the American Indian, which is a newer complex.
Even more high tech, but all the security stuff is the same.
Hey, you have to really go through your shit.
Yeah, so it's and then we went through the Smithsonian.
We videotaped it.
Wait, was that the time?
No, we didn't videotape that time.
Sketch that back with Smithsonian later and videotape it with Alan and Chris.
That time, what happened was the very first thing like Joyce had sent me there to take photographs of everything in the
collections and to take notes of everything that they were saying about the collections and all that stuff to document the whole thing.
Right.
So I took out my camera right away and started getting set up.
And Martin, my future father-in-law, said to me,
I hope this isn't going to end up in the National or the National Geographic.
I hope this isn't going to end up in the National Geographic.
And then I was like, I don't got to take photographs.
You don't want.
And I put I put it away.
And that seemed to buy me something.
You know,
with Martin, maybe with others, too.
Yeah.
The rest of the day, we looked at the whole collection.
I took lots of notes and everything of what they were talking about, what they were saying and all of this.
But clearly, there was a concern about using the camera.
There was a concern about using the camera and it's an important concern that is easy to overlook because the way we live today.
It's a very important concern.
I'm with you.
Yeah, there was a concern about the camera.
There were parts of the day where people broke down, they were crying.
I ended up consoling the young woman.
And
we started getting along better through that day.
By the end of the day, we were on a plane trip to New York
with our Smithsonian notes in hand.
And
and me and her were getting along really well.
We were going to stay in
the, what are this place that they had booked us?
Like, somebody in tribal government had booked us this ratty ass place in New York City.
They didn't know what they were doing, you know.
And the place that they booked us, we went to, we cabbed to.
And it was just like,
like gross and and it was like squalor.
Yeah.
Shared, you know, shared bedroom, shared washroom, like shared, shared washrooms between like
four people in two bedrooms kind of things.
And me and this girl were like, oh, we'll stay together.
And we ended up like choosing to stay in a room.
But then, oh, Francis first charger was there.
Yeah, now I remember he was there, too.
And he was like, he was like, no, we're not staying in this place, right?
He got he got a hold of us.
He's like, now we're not staying here.
We're getting out of here.
We were going to have a meeting with Sumitomo Corporation.
Downtown tomorrow, but they have put us, they have, they have set us up with rooms in Penn Station
or Penn Pennsylvania Hotel, which is right above Penn Station.
They're expensive, but you know, we just got to make it work, right?
So we taxied over to Pennsylvania Hotel.
And then again, like me and Margaret were like, oh, we'll just,
we'll just room together and split the costs.
And if I remember Frank like intervening and being like, like, hey, I can,
I can give you money for another room, you know, extra room.
We're like, no, we'll just make it work, you know?
And so we ended up, we ended up rooming together in Pennsylvania Hotel.
We stayed there.
I think in New York, we were there three nights, maybe four nights, three or four nights.
So we were in the, in the American Museum of Natural History, as well as the High Foundation,
which was, it was down on Battery Park, like where you can see like the Statue of Liberty
and that kind of thing.
There was a big museum for American Indians called the High Foundation.
And then that was moved all that, all that collection.
Well, the, the storage for that was in Brooklyn, but they moved all that collection
eventually to Washington, D.C. to start the National Museum of the American Indian.
But back then in 1996, it was still in New York.
That's where we visited it first, okay?
So we were there three or four days and we saw a lot of things.
And in terms of my life, the things that were pretty momentous in New York was Allen,
both Allen and Martin confronted me one day and told me, you know,
you're working with us on these, bringing these bundles home and you should probably
get more involved in our ceremonies so you learn more about them.
And so both of them invited me to their ceremonies.
Allen invited me to his, I think it was, he had a Thunderpipe still at the time.
He had the Beaver Bundle too now, but it was new to him.
I didn't get to see his Beaver Bundle quite yet.
But I think he invited me to his Thunderpipe and Martin too.
And so, you know, I continued the tour, but for me, I think the biggest,
the most momentous thing was probably just those invites, hey, you know.
And then, and then how?
And did those ceremonies take place that they invited you to?
That would have been in the summer of, probably in June-ish in 1996.
What I mean is, did they take place after you went home?
Home?
Back to, oh, right.
You're actually living on East Coast, aren't you?
Yeah, I was, I was living in Boston at the time, of course.
Yeah.
So where did the ceremonies take place?
In Alberta.
When?
Later.
In June of 1996.
And how long after the trip?
Really shortly, like weeks after.
I see.
Okay.
I'm just trying to hold the timeline in my head.
Yeah, no, it was very, it was very quick.
Like I did the first repatriation in May, they came.
And then by June, I was, I was with them on this tour.
And by the end of the month, I was in ceremony in Alberta.
And were you visiting Alberta?
Yeah, I was staying, well, I was, yeah, visiting, yeah.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, I was, by June, I was, I was there for Martin.
By end of June, I was there for Martin and Alan's ceremonies.
And then I was invited back by Mart, like that trip that I came out.
I think I stayed a couple of weeks.
And I didn't even book anywhere to come, like anywhere to stay or anything.
I just, I just came and Alan set up a tee before me.
I stayed a couple of days at Alan's place and then Martin set up a tee before me.
And I was going to be working, like entering my stuff from my database
into the blood tribes system.
And so that was closer to Martin's.
And so I started staying at Martin's and he said,
had you spent any time in a teepee before?
No, that's what I thought.
Yeah, I lived in a teepee for those two weeks.
First to Alan's and then at Martin's.
And then Martin invited me back for a go-karts in the Sundance.
That summer, so I came back and I was back, probably another couple, two, three weeks.
And so I got to experience my first Sundance.
And while I was there, well, that wasn't even the Sundance trip.
I'm sorry.
That was the first trip when I came to the Thunder Pipes in the end
of June, there was a day when I was working at the Shot Both Sides building
and standoff at the blood tribe headquarters, entering my stuff in their database.
And Frank came to the building and he asked if he could take me to lunch in Fort McLeod.
And so I told him, yeah, so I jumped in his truck and he took me
to lunch in Fort McLeod, but the whole thing was he was wanting to go
after the Thunder Pipe that we had seen in the Smithsonian in Washington, D.C.
And he wanted to go in after that as a vow to try that.
Like he had crippling arthritis, like Mahoney, you know.
He wanted to go after it to, like, try to help his arthritis.
And he wanted to go after it different.
He said, I don't want to use that law.
Said, I want to use transfer.
Said, I believe that the elders in the past that gave the bundles to the museums
did so to ensure that the bundles would be here, you know, for other generations to use.
But when they did it, you know, however, like there's some stuff that we have documented
where they actually, we know they transferred, you know, to see a person.
But there's other cases where it was just straight out bought.
And Frank, Frank was like, however, however the Smithsonian got to this bundle.
Because we didn't really know with that one.
He's like, however they got to this bundle.
He's like, I still like, I still consider the Smithsonian the current caretaker owner.
And I want to approach them like from my way with with our kind of respect.
I want them to transfer to me.
And of course, they don't know the ceremony.
I'll have an elder there to do the transfer.
But I want their representatives there to transfer to me.
And I'm going to pay them like I would pay for a transfer of this bundle.
And they know what the purpose is.
And I'm going to explain to them how this bundle came about, how transfer works.
You're going to do that for me.
You're going to write that for me.
And so that was my next mission was to write Frank's repatriation,
which was like no other repatriation.
It was a transfer request.
Like we wrote it like as if I'm going because with those particular bundles,
even you don't go and ask for it yourself.
You have a mediator go for you.
And we did it just like that.
And the Smithsonian said that was the best repatriation request they'd ever received.
And hastily made the bundle come home.
Wow.
Yeah.
But it didn't come home before I came back for the Sundance.
I was back for the Sundance before that bundle came home.
So I was there for those couple of pipe ceremonies.
And then Martin asked me to come back for the Sundance, which was mind blowing.
Because if you're from the modern world, like I came in,
I flew into Great Falls and he picked me up there.
And even coming from the East Coast, the city, when you fly into Great Falls,
all you hear is the wind and it's so different.
It's such a different kind of quiet that you don't know.
And then Martin drove me up in Talberda.
He picked me up in Great Falls, drove me up into a giant camp.
And it was nighttime when we got in.
A giant camp of fire glowing tepees.
Like, I don't know, it was like taking a time machine or something.
Like people were riding horses around camp and singing.
And it's crazy.
It is so different, you know?
And yeah, so I had the Sundance.
Went to spend time at the Sundance.
By that time, I was still kind of messing around with that crappier wolf girl.
But I was also kind of checking out Martin's daughter.
And I started talking to her a little, one of Martin's daughters.
And then I went back to Boston again.
What did I work on at that point?
What was the next repatriation?
I think that's when the Hoopa contacted me
and wanted me to start talking to me about negotiating with them for Harvard.
Because the Hoopa from California had been really trying to get their ceremonial things back
from Harvard for a couple of years at least.
And just was just getting shut down.
And they heard that somebody got something out of there.
Can we hire you?
We've got this anthropologist who has worked with us since the 70s who'll help you.
She lives in New York City.
You can stay with her.
She's got a giant Hoopa library.
So, I took a contract with the Hoopa and then Martin invited me.
Before I went to the Hoopa or to New York City, I was still in Boston.
But Martin had invited me to a ganotesis, a winter ceremony.
And so, I flew back out to Alberta to do the ganotesis.
And at that point, I couldn't stay in a teepee, it was winter.
So, I stayed at Martin's house.
And he gave me a truck to use.
And he said, I need you to stay in here, you can use this truck, but I need you to drive.
Danielle around, she has to go to college every day.
But I'd take her to college, drop her off and bring her back home at the end of the day and
stuff. But then in the evening, if anything wasn't particularly happened, Martin would be like,
hey, maybe you should take the truck and Danielle and go into town and go see a movie or something.
He was just encouraging us to be around each other, it seemed to me.
And one thing led to another.
And then I was supposed to be going home.
I was supposed to be going to Boston and then going to New York.
My flight was a particular day and Martin was supposed to bring me down to Great Falls to
set me off. As we headed down, he started going down the back roads of the blood research.
I never realized it, but we never got off the blood research. I know it now.
But he was just driving, he was just stalling, driving around the back roads, driving around the
back roads until my flight was going to be late for my flight. We haven't even crossed the border,
I'm not going to make it. He's like, oh, yeah. Well, you should reschedule your flight.
Let's go to the lake and check out this place where there's supposed to be these human footprints
from like 10,000 years ago. Let's go check those out. So we went to go explore and have fun and
stuff, but basically I missed my flight and I rebooked my flight for another week or something,
an extra week. But that bought me time because Danielle and I had just kind of got found out
by her parents and by Martin and Pam that we were hanging out a little more than just driving
her to school and stuff and whatever. And so I think Martin bought me some more time with her
basically. But anyway, I ended up staying there some more even though I was supposed to go and
then when I went, then I just sent Danielle a ticket to follow me. And I brought her to New York
with me and we subsequently eloped.
And I started working the hoop pockets, which is a whole nother story.
I don't know. Do we want to get into that part or what do we want to do?
Or do you have questions about any, like I continued to do from there,
like I just went into repatriation, like eventually I get to the meteorites and all that
shit too. But I continued to work Blackfoot repatriations, but I started the hoop out contact
to me, let me know that maybe I can use what I'm doing to help other people and to make a living.
Because I've been here before doing all my repatriation stuff for the Blackfoot just on my
own dime just for the experience. And then the hoop out contract to me, I thought, oh,
well, one thing that I've got, I've got a database of more than 4,000 worldwide museums that have
native collections. Maybe another tribe would want me to recontact those museums and ask for
their inventories. So I started pitching that around. Eventually I got a bite on that from
the Confederacy Tribes of Grand Ron in Oregon, where I grew up, the Kalapuya mostly.
But yeah, before that, I was in New York. I lived in New York City on City Island for,
I think, Mahoney and I were there like four months, something like that.
The first part of the project, we went to Harvard to go look at the collection.
And I went with Hoopa's, well, the whole thing, like I worked with her, her name was Lee Davis.
She's a famous anthropologist. She's from your area. She's at Berkeley. Her last place of
employment was at Berkeley that I knew of. But after she worked with me, she went to Berkeley
again. She'd been there before. So she was with me the whole time, but me and her,
not getting along very well at all. Me and Lee. Yeah. I'd rather just do my own contract
and not have to be in any kind of thing with Lee.
But it was interesting. We went to Harvard first and we were, this was even before Mahoney got
there, before Danielle, before I flew her there. When I first got there, our first step was we got
to go look at the collection. So we went to Harvard and going through the collection, an event happened.
We were pulling, like the way that we had it working was we were trying to photograph everything
so we could take the photographs and bring them back to California to the Hoop I Older's
and share the photographs with them and then get them talking about the things.
So I could write my claim. When we were going through the stacks at the Peabody,
Anne Marie was with me again, Anne Marie Victor Howe, and she would actually take the item from
the drawer. She might have to climb a ladder. A lot of things are up high and shit. She takes an item
from a drawer and she passes it down to Lee. Lee would read out the tag number on it and description
and give it to me. I had a clipboard that I would check off the item so I knew we got
each item on the inventory. When she passed it to me, I'd take the item and I had a
cart and I put it on the cart and we were going to wheel that into another room
with better lighting and take photographs. So as we're going through the storage,
Anne Marie picks up this thing from a drawer up high in a ladder and hands it down and Lee Davis
says stone pipe 98127 whatever the fuck the number was. Stone pipe
and hands it to me and as I'm less than a second from touching it,
I can see that this is not a smoking pipe but this is a stone pipe but it's a board through.
Yeah. This is something that doctors used to suck sickness out of people with
and that
recognition hit my mind just as I touched it
and then it was like electricity went through my body and I started blacking out
and it took everything like all the concentration that I had
to put that thing on the cart and let go of it
before it blacked you know and I didn't black out but wait wait okay one minute
finally six finally six okay we'll go we'll go to the next yeah one minute
so you you're at the museum they hand you down the stone pipe you touch just as you're starting
to reach for it you realize this isn't a smoking pipe yeah I know what it is yeah you know what
recognize it I recognize it just at the point where I'm touching it yeah
and it almost knocks me to the ground like I don't know I I've had no comparable experience
except for one other artifact that I touched in the museum later that maybe we'll get to
at a further point but this was the most intensive this kind of thing and it really felt like I was
being just like I don't know I was being put to sleep electrically in a weird way and I resisted it
enough to put the the the pipe down I think if I had held on to it even a fraction of a second later
I'd have been on the ground you know like I just barely managed to put that pipe down
without passing out and then I immediately had the worst kind of flu and cold symptoms
like flood me in the next five minutes
wow that I had to bow out for the day
like leave the museum go to my hotel and I slept for I think at 14 hours
and woke up okay again but it was the most bizarre thing
but the Hoopa the Hoopa ended up loving it
you know of course I reported it
later to them like we visited Harvard
photographed all of their stuff and most of the stuff that they wanted out is
like their their whole tradition's very like it's different from the Blackfoot by a long shot
Hoopa they really surprised me like I'm from the west coast I grew up in western Oregon
and the Hoopa are in this little valley called Trinity Valley northern northern California by
Eureka area kind of you know red woody area their their trinity river spills into the what
uh
Klamath
that goes into the ocean and what's very interesting there is that where the Trinity
River meets the Klamath right it gives you a T intersection the Hoopas on the Trinity River
which is just like a mile and a half long and that's their whole territory
it's maybe maybe a mile and a half wide and a mile and a half long or something like that
it's a very short thing okay um that the the Hoopa are there
ups when they hit the T upstream from the T is Karuk and downstream is Eureka
and the downstream feeds into the ocean right so Eureka connected to the ocean but those three
tribes the Hoopa and the Karuk and the Eureka um speak entirely different languages from
entirely different language families but practice the exact same cultural complex
and ceremonies and all of that stuff this is this is one of the cases that um
Franz Boas the first American anthropologist used to try to disprove that there is any
connection between culture language and race
so any case they surprised me because
they're um they still got a lot of their culture they still got their language they
still got their ceremonies um I experienced magic in Hoopa Valley like serious magic you know
and um yeah it's it's something else and they're very different like in the old Blackfoot stories
way way back in Napa era which is like the earliest Blackfoot stories maybe 12,000 plus years ago
the men and the women lived in separate camps you know um and there's a there's a story
and a place here called Aki Pisk on the women's buffalo jump where it took place
where where the men and women finally came together to like to live together here but
before that men and women had lived in separate camps and basically women had prepubescent boys
with them you know but then once they hit puberty they'd go to the men's camp
all right you can see yeah and it's it's following you know kind of like ungulate type of
knowledge um here like the deer in the Hoopa it's the deer I think here was the bison
you know but uh in the Hoopa is the deer for sure and there's a time when the deer get together
for the rut and that was the only time of year where the men and women could like live together
and so if you were not born basically as a tourist like April into May
you are considered illegitimate child in the in the Hoopa
ah I see you are not conceived when men and women are supposed to be together right
right and that's kind of still the case there even though even though they still like they like
they live now men who like people live with their spouses and all that jazz you know
my experience there was that the men are very effeminate and
and the women are very
you know butchy and it's it's a it's a different kind and they're still like kind of talking
about that stuff and in that mind zone you know like um that's yes it's their way of life
it's their way of life it is preserved it's still going on
and we went into their old villages like the old pit houses and stuff where they still do their
ceremonies and things there are um very important features that have gone missing from the like
official like uh like if you look at pictures of those villages at the turn of the century
compared to pictures of the villages in the 1950s or 60s you're gonna see really important
things are missing those things are still there they're just like they're just hit
ah they're there they're all there everything is everything is still there um
and uh there's weird things that can go on there yeah that gives us a good lead in for
another chapter sure um
I I just feel so grateful to be able to be with you tonight and hear these stories yeah
it's crazy like I don't know I don't even like it's it's weird to be uh retelling them because
um it seems so fantastic a lot of it now you know and I'm just like regular
blood indian desperate and lethbridge you know
like
yes well they were um they were glorious they're glorious moments that live on still
yeah yeah it's all still part of part of the whole
like those are history that have made major ripples like what we did bringing that stuff back
has changed account like it's hard to even imagine how much it's changed the community and the people
you know
a lot education is totally different I mean as a result thank you so much for sharing these
I hope we'll get to um continue in a in a very you know uh nearby moment
in the recording here we can keep talking
but uh thank you for for sharing all this rhyme so you bet so grateful you bet
you
you
you
you
you
