So, Savva could ask you to unmute yourselves for the time being. That would be handy, not you, Lee,
obviously. So, Lee and I have known each other for many years now. I can't remember when the
first time I ever met you, Lee, it would have been, did I come on, I came on your esoteric
occult tour of the Egyptian galleries of the British Museum. But I can't remember now whether
that was before or after you did an explorers club for me in St Leonard's. I, in my mind,
I remember that I came and did the explorers club first. Okay. Oh, you did mesmerism at
the Cave Gallery. I remember that was a legendary event. Yes. So, that would have been about 2012
or something like that. Probably, yes. Yeah. So, Lee and I have kind of kept in touch over the
years and our interests are obviously very similar. We're both interested in the mysteries in
ancient magic, ancient religion, and we've just been discussing the mysteries of LFC and we've
both spent a lot of time in Greece. And as Lee was just saying, we seem to go to the same places
all the time, but miss each other by not very long period. So, Lee, would you like to introduce
yourself and tell everyone what you're up to these days and what you've been up to until these days?
Oh, right. Okay. So, let's see. So, I've been working hard at these sort of working with the
mysteries in one way or another, whether it's working with inner traditions or whether it's
working in a way where I have some aspects of it that I can teach in the external world.
For about the last 25 years or more, I would say more now. In a nutshell, what I'll say is I got
interested in NLP, in hypnosis, but as I was describing in a recent interview with one of our
mutual friends here, Darren, I actually did an interview with him recently and he asked me,
where do you think this all really started? I said, well, basically, it started after I'd gone
for a walk and I did a very, very long walk and discovered by doing that walk, by interacting
with the land, by just doing simple things like waking up, going to sleep, walking, sleeping,
every day under the sun and the moon and the stars. I managed to start to form a relationship
with what I might call the magnetic field, the magnetic field that surrounds my whole body
and actually is sort of, to some extent, fed into by the earth and then, to some extent,
you interact with it with your own magnetic field back to the earth. That actually,
doing this walk made it very clear to me that you reach certain states of trance quite naturally
by doing things like walking in a rhythmic pace, breathing in a rhythmic pace. It can transport
you into some quite unusual places and some quite healing places as well. I got more and
more interested in how these trance states could be used. I formally started training in NLP and
hypnosis and then got involved with working magnetically about, oh gosh, I'm starting to lose
track now, probably about 2010, around about that time, 2009, 2010. I started getting involved in
working magnetically, but to some extent, this was the thing, I was already doing that.
I was discovering that I already had some kind of an ability to work magnetically,
especially with other people. So yeah, I just got more and more involved in doing it as a profession.
And how did that lead you to say, for example, your tours of the British Museum, which I think
are kind of like cult now, like everyone who knows you from these tours?
Yeah, well, I was living close to the British Museum for about eight years. And I was regularly
going in there every other day and just spending time sitting around some of the statues and some
of the figures and started to notice, very similar to a lot of the other stuff that I've just described
to you, started to notice that some of these objects had quite distinct and characteristic
magnetic qualities, which ebb and flow with the lunar cycles. So I kind of got a bit
obsessed with going in there and checking all of these things out. And it wasn't just that,
I was able to stand in front of some of these things, and they would literally
depart information, impart information to me on various different levels.
I was never interested in the archaeological history of these things. I was more interested in
the way that the symbolism itself just unfolds, if you come into contact with these figures.
Another thing I noticed was the fact that a lot of these figures seem to be
carved in stone for perpetuity, so that we can actually access some of the forms that they're
making. So for example, some of the some of the stances that you find them in, like the stance
of pitara and so on. So they're almost like saying, do as we do, try out, give it a go,
you know, try out what we're doing. And if you do, you'll be pleasantly surprised, especially if
you're working with present moment awareness in the process. There's one object that I remember
you pointing out on our tour, the libation bowl of Hathor. And that's something that I've become
quite obsessed with myself. And I remember the quality of it is amazing. It's something I always
go and spend time with when I'm there. And then it has a kind of slightly throwaway descriptive
tag, which a lot of the objects in the British Museum do have, because they haven't been updated
very regularly. And one of the things that I realized about it recently, because I learned,
I started to learn hieroglyphs during lockdown, and I got very interested. I mean,
you were my inspiration for starting to properly study hieroglyphs, because I found that tour of
the British Museum so eyeopening, and I saw everything very differently after that. And I
was desperate to be able to read some of the inscriptions. But understanding the kind of
the essence of some of, say, like the determinatives or some of the, like, literal symbolic
hieroglyphs that don't necessarily have a phonetic meaning already revealed quite a lot. But the
Hathor's libation bowl is such a beautiful, perfectly made thing. And it came to my mind
recently, because during explorers Egyptology, one of my lectures was on mirrors, the history of
mirrors. And we had an Egyptologist, Jerome Backhouse, talk about mirrors and symbolism of
mirrors in ancient Egypt. And what strikes me about that libation bowl now is that it's the
glyph of the solar disk. It has a smaller circle in the center. So I had an idea that this could
have been used, and it could at least have had a double function of being a water mirror, because
if it was filled with some sort of liquid, I mean, it says it's a libation bowl, but that
kind of doesn't really mean anything. It's just an example of some sort of furniture. But I
contacted the British Museum, and I said something about the possibility that this could ever be
used as a water mirror or could be used for divination. And the curator there said that the
Egyptians didn't practice hydromancy. They didn't practice divination using water or oil or anything
like that, which is kind of crazy, because I'd also had a lecturer from another Egyptologist
that was all about water divination and the fact that obviously they did practice every conceivable
form of divination in Egypt. So it's very interesting how you get, you know, I've always been
impressed, and I think it's a great thing that the British Museum let people do that
off-piste, weird tours of the British Museum, and that it's free for everyone to go to. You know,
despite the fact that they've obviously nicked most of that stuff or paid a pittance for most of
the stuff that they have in there, the fact that it's free is it's one saving grace, I would say,
because it's certainly, you know, growing up in a working-class family, I went, I was in museums
and art galleries all the time in London as a kid, and it was like the best education I ever had.
So I always just remember you really pointing out Hatha's bowl and the fact that it had this
like amazing feeling and resonance, and every time I would go I would like stand by it and
and try to feel its energy somehow. But is that something that you think reacts with moon cycles
as well? Absolutely, absolutely. I've tested it out on numerous occasions, going there on new
moons, going there on full moons, and you definitely get a different level of vibration
coming from that bowl on those occasions. I usually find it strongest at the new moon,
less strong funnily enough at the full moon, that's how I discovered it. And there was another one,
I don't know if you remember, but there's another libation bowl quite similar to it,
and it always, in comparison, it always felt incredibly dead, like there was just
no nothing coming from that bowl at all, and it obviously isn't as perfect as the other one either,
it's quite sort of misshapen and kind of a bit battered. I think you get the one up by the offering
tables. Yeah, the one up near the offering tables, yes, but that one, like I was saying, it always
felt really dead. I have to say, in the last year, it seems to be coming back to life, or it seems
to be... That's interesting. I was going to go to the British Museum a couple of days ago, but the
queue was the biggest queue I've ever seen in my life, and it's the only time when I haven't gone,
because the queue's been so big, but I would have been waiting outside for like two hours in the rain.
But yeah, I'll be interested to try that out next time I see it. I mean, I think it's really
interesting because we're so used to things being made quickly and easily here, it really hit me how
the extra effort that's required to put that small circle on the inside turns into a glyph for the
sun. And in ancient Egypt, mirrors were a symbol of rebirth. They're often shown in postpartum scenes,
for example, and they have this relationship with dreams as well, because dreams are often
represented as being in this kind of mirror realm. And so it speaks a little to me also of an ancient
Egyptian concept of sort of transmigration of the soul, that a new soul is coming into life.
Yeah, I mean, the thing you described about it being like a water mirror was actually what
I got myself when I went there many, many years ago, like to the actual place. I remember seeing
like a group of in a meditative vision that I had while standing there, which happened to
me with quite a few of those objects. That particular one, I know this may sound a little
a little sort of out there to some people, but because it was a Hathor mirror, a Hathor bowl,
I actually saw a group of priestesses using it to divine the life of a newborn baby washing
the afterbirth of a newborn baby. So it was actually used as divination with candlelight
or oil lamp lights in water, actually looking at that between state,
divining where the child had come from and where it may be going to.
That's interesting. I have a similar idea with regards to the relationship that it probably
had with birth, because that's a symbol that you see in most postpartum scenes. And Hathor's
obviously associated with protecting women in labour and things like this as well.
These things are very difficult to talk about. When, say for example, we're describing some of
the hieroglyphs, we look at them and they're just two-dimensional, but there's a certain state of
mind that we need to get to ourselves into, where we begin to see them beyond the two-dimensional
representations, because that's actually what a lot of these things are trying to get at.
Yeah, I've thought a lot about this. When I started to learn hieroglyphs, my interest in the
mysteries and my ideas about learning to embody or perceive these ancient perceptions
shifted a lot, because I think there is something about a hieroglyphic writing system
that has a almost holographic quality to it, because you fully understand one glyph,
or you approach understanding one glyph, it presents this multi-dimensional view of everything.
And one of the things that I've considered is, because hieroglyphs are obviously representing
real things of the world, those people that were literate in hieroglyphs would have seen
configurations of certain real things in the world, which would mean the world was talking to them,
which could be the course of God. So that's an amazingly different way of seeing the world.
Before we came online, Lee and I were chatting about the ancient Greek language,
and the more I learn about and the more I study the sleep temples and the ancient Greek religion,
the more I recognize that the ancient Greek language itself is fundamental to perceiving
these things in the way that they're meant to be perceived. And Maria Marigou, who's a researcher
and author that I'm working with in Greece, has spent her life studying like deep etymological
studies of ancient Greek texts, and she describes it as a cosmic codex that enables you to conjure
up magic and to change reality and to see things as they truly are. And I think the more I was
just said to Lee that hanging out with a lot of Greek speakers and people that are really into
ancient Greek study makes me feel like English is German, because it seems too basic and too simple.
And the Greek language seems to somehow express the essence of things in a more effective way
somehow. I think because we obviously have so many Greek words in English, it's like getting
to the source, getting to the root of everything by understanding the terms for things.
Absolutely. Just while I'm thinking of this, are you aware of the original Greek theta,
what it looked like? I'm not sure. What does the original Greek theta look like?
You're going to be pleasantly surprised. This is what the original Greek theta was.
Oh, amazing. Right. So if you then take the numerical
value of theta, which is nine, but then you spell the word theta,
you end up with the same amount, exactly the same value as Elios. Of course, Elios is the sun.
So the Greek word theta takes you straight directly to the actual value of Elios itself,
of which it was the original glyph of. Wow. Yeah, you spoke about how the Greek letters
had numerical values and they were symbols to represent numerical values. So that gives
Greek this extra layer of complexity and it basically is the fabric of the universe. And
that's how Maria describes it. She's very passionate about the ancient Greek language.
Well, I mean, like, for example, I mean, a lot of people, you know, know about
Kabbalah and the Hebrew Kabbalah and things like this. And they even use terms like
gematria. Well, gematria for a start is a Greek word. So gematria is literally related to the
idea of the gematria, the metric metric, the measurement of Gaia. So the Gaia Metria or the
Geo metric. So the whole idea is is that we've got here specific, as you say there, a matrix,
which is made from the numerical values of words. And of course, the ancient priests
used to know and the priestesses and all of the ancient, ancient hierarchies of the priestly castes
would basically utilize that whenever the formula of a God would change, they would change its
spelling, because its spelling would then reflect what they were trying to describe. And a classic
example of that is mythras. So they changed the mythras from 360 and then stuck a letter
Ita in there. Is it Ita? Ita, yeah, which equals five. And then it became
then it became mythras with 365 to describe the new understanding of the 365 days that they were
now willing to actually espouse to the general public, which originally in Egypt that was the
five forbidden days, I do believe. Wow. How do you think that hypnotism, mesmerism, magnetism
fits into the practices at sleep temples in the ancient world? Like, I'll be interested to hear
more about your idea about sleep temples in Egypt as well, for example, because Imhotep often gets
credited with being, well, he's synchronized with this glupius in some of the sleep temples in Egypt.
But I was wondering what you made of that. Well, I think, I think a lot of the feeling and the,
a lot of the feeling is that it has actually a lot of that tradition of the sleep temples did
derive from Egypt. To me, a lot of the rites and rituals that surround the books of the dead,
to me are actually, it seems quite clear to me. And of course, these things cannot be proven,
but it's certainly something which you can, you can gain your own understanding of
by, by actually going through, sorry, there's somebody outside staring into, into my car,
sounds very glassy and very strange. Yeah, so anyway, yeah, so you've got the, you've got the
whole thing with the way the temples are set up. And of course, if you've been to Egypt and you've
been into the Great Pyramids and you've been into a lot of the other temples, there's a distinct
feeling that these places were used not just for funerary rites by any stretch of the imagination,
they were used very much as an initiatic chambers. And, and I very much feel that
some of these places were used for preparations in a similar way to the Asclepian temple, to the
Abboton. I mean, of course, there's been a lot said about Imhotep in this regard as well.
Well, it seems like Imhotep is a divine physician. And I think it's always interested
me that he also has this role of divine scribe, because the relationship between
magic medicine and writing is always so important in ancient Egypt. And Imhotep is
synchronised with Asclepius, like officially in the Greco-Roman period. And then in, in somewhere
like the sanctuary of Asclepius Epidavros, for example, you have the sanctuary of the Egyptian
gods there where you have synchronisation between Apollo Aegea and Asclepius and Aegea, Isis,
Horus and Osiris. So there's something about the resurrection, which is another interesting
thing to get onto, because there's this close relationship in Egypt and in Greece between
death and sleep. And I think the hypnotic trance state is this, this liminal space where
death and sleep can be coerced in some way. So I wonder how you use hypnosis to influence
the sleep process, the dream content, things like this.
Well, really, I mean, the point is, I mean, if you're talking about the hypnagogic stuff
being used to access aspects of awareness that are not, not usually accessed,
we can begin to find answers to questions. So it can be used therapeutically in that way. So we
can begin to obviously, like a good meditation, you can get into a very similar state where you
can access answers to questions in a way that you just quite simply normally never would.
And they can just pop straight up into your mind or in a very clear and lucid way,
or they can come up in the form of a feeling or in the form of an image. There's many, many
multifarious ways that these things can present themselves to you.
Also, another thing that I lead people to pay attention to is also the feeling
that people get. Also, to understand where they feel it, because of course the body registers
things in many different areas, many different ways. So it's all of this at the end of the day
when I'm using these things purely therapeutically, it's just to help the client with an immediate
issue that they're dealing with. But I also work in a much more sort of
initiatic way as well. And that's really the bit of my work that I can see
taking place to the end of my life. Because as you said at the beginning of this interview,
I think before everybody joined us, you can never really see that ending.
When navigating the path of the soul, basically that's what we're doing,
just navigating the path of the soul. And finding the best way under the guidance of
certain deities like Higir, obviously we want a very healthy process. We also need,
Apollo brings us harmony and peace. So we want to invoke these ideas or at least bring through
petition, bring these qualities into our journey, whenever we're opening a new door.
Well, I think there's something really useful and intelligent about having a deity as a,
I think of it as almost being like a psychic target. It gives you something to direct your
energy and your attention to. And I think there's this ancient idea that statues can
really contain the living essence of a god or goddess. And I love that idea. And I think that
that perhaps is conjured up by human attention. If we give form, if we give shape to these
ideas and these qualities of nature or these forces of nature, and we sculpt them into physical
forms, especially human tangible physical forms, then we can direct our energy and our attention
and our love and adoration to them. And they then are a bit like a topper, like they can come alive
and they can then have influence. We've created something in the imagination that then has a
life and volition of its own. So, and you know, this is why I think quite in, in ancient times,
very often, the ancient religions or people that practiced in ancient religions had this
appreciation that these could things could be transferred, these essences could be transferred
from Osiris to Mithras, for example, or from Dionysus to Jesus. And I think we spoke before we
came online about one of the things that attracts me so much to Greece is I think the essence of
nature worship is still preserved in Greek orthodoxy. To some extent, obviously,
Greek orthodoxy isn't perfect, but neither was paganism. And Maria Marigou did mention something
to me about how the the hierophants, the people who initiated people at the mysteries of Elefsina,
for example, they took the when the sites were being smashed up and demolished by early Christian
fanatics, they, they were continuing to initiate people in Plato's Academy, and they preserved
those rights. And then because they had a high status in society, they were able to insert those
rights and those rituals and those religions, or those, those rituals into Greek orthodoxy. So,
for example, Easter in Greece is such a big deal, it has this real kind of Dionysian sense to it.
And so many of the chapels, especially the rural chapels and churches are dedicated to the Virgin
Mary. And very often that they have like special qualities of the Virgin Mary, so it'd be like
the painless sleep, meaning the death, the assumption of the Virgin. And so they're often still
associated with things like dream incubation as well. I think the biggest or the one of the
earliest churches in Greece was actually built within the sanctuary of Asclepius, and it became
famous for dream miracles because there was always these overlapping of religions and
cults kind of being aware that they were essentially saying the same thing. And so you could swap one
face of a god for another, and one really batted an eyelid. So I think that that's something that
greased to me, that current of ecstasy and nature-redoring is still there. And I think for me,
that is the biggest sense I get spending time in L.F. Siena as well, actually, is that if you ever go
during springtime, I'm sure you've been at springtime, when all the wildflowers are coming out,
you've got this sense that for rural agrarian populations, the emergence of spring would
have just been ecstatic. It's like orgiastic nature. And if you feel that you're part of the
cycle of nature, you feel orgiastic, they call it the sacred orgies as well. And I think it's more
than just about sex, it's about like the sex of the world, the sex of the cosmos, and that there's
a current that human beings are able to tap into and become ecstatic. Yeah, and that's interesting
using that word, that word orgy. I mean, the actual meaning of that word as well means the work,
the work, the working, the orgia, is the actual working itself. So the working of nature or the
great work, again, it's another one of those references. Yeah, so the thing of how to use this
is a very interesting question, because like I say, initiatically, I like to use these things
to incubate the next phase of a question, which is interesting, you know, the word quest,
you're on the quest, you're asking the question, it's you're setting out on the quest, you're
polluting the question. And of course, like when we read the tarot, or when we do any kind of
divination, we usually have some form of a question that we need an answer to. But if you're actually
working the sacred work, you obviously need answers to certain, or usually directives
in some way, or some kind of hint as to what you need to be looking at next, or what you need to
be paying more attention to, or the the the stricture of rights themselves actually allow you to pay
attention to say, for example, I'll just give you an off the cuff example here. But if say, for example,
you light a certain amount of candles, and you know that those candles represent certain principles,
and you do a meditation with those particular candles. If you know how a certain candle is behaving,
then that candle can obviously give you the clue as to what it is that you're what what what what
what you're being told while you're doing the meditation. So if one of the candles, for example,
goes very, very dim and very, very small or is very, very wavery, and the rest of them are very
still and strong, and you know the significance of that particular candle, then you're doing
divination immediately in the process of working with the strictures of a right, for example.
So, but then of course, taking the dreaming, you're saying the dreaming, it can take on another level
where whereby, when you go into some of the deeper works, where you're completely deprived of
any light whatsoever, that you actually begin to dream with your eyes open, of course, because
you're looking straight into the into the dark. And when you're doing this, then, then of course,
you can you can form dialogues, while while apparently still awake with things which come to,
say, for example, visit you, or you can start speak, you can begin to start seeing something
emerging. These things are very difficult to talk about. Well, you're in the right place to talk.
You can begin to get an idea of what good. Yeah. So this is basically, in my understanding,
this is precisely what they were doing in the in the Abaton, because they were the particular
area of the Abaton, they were prepping people for for a period of time, almost like in a hospital
bed type situation, where they would immerse them in tasks, like reading about a particular
deity, immersing themselves in the literature of that particular deity, immersing themselves in
repetitive types, forms of prayer or whatever. And I get a very strong feeling that this was all done
on lunar cycles in strict accordance with lunar cycles. And one of the one of the most powerful
lunar cycles of all is the lunar cycle between between Libra, right through to Capricorn,
that particular quadrant, or should I say that those those four forming a nice inside the 360
degrees of a zodiac, they're forming a nice 90 degree angle. Those four from Libra to Capricorn
is where all of the initiatic stuff happens. And through time and history, that's very much
being the case, because of course, you have the epiphania epiphania in the Capricorn.
Well, that's interesting, because doesn't that also correspond with Orpheicus as a constellation
as well, because he has he that's the representation of Asclepius in the heavens.
Absolutely. Absolutely. There you go. Absolutely that. And of course, you get the you get the judgment
in the Libra, and you get the resurrection, or the birth of the light in Capricorn.
You know, you mentioned meditating on some of the objects in the British Museum. And I had a
similar situation, because I spend a lot of time at the sanctuary of Asclepius when I take my retreat
guests there. So as I was saying to you before we started, it's like, it feels like home to me
now, I'm there so often, always having a little lie down in the Avatar. And what I love about it
is that the staff, the whistleblowers are pretty much only orientated around the theater and a bit
in the museum. But once you get into the bigger, wider sanctuary, because the theater was a huge,
important part of treatment in the Asclepia, because theater was seen as divine, it was an art
of Dionysus. And Dionysus is a god of kind of purging and ecstasy. And you could go through a
process of catharsis by watching an emotional drama being played out in this theater. And you
have to think of theaters, I think, as temples as shrines, like something transformative happens
in them. But when tourists get dropped off at the sanctuary of Asclepius now, they just get
dropped off at the great theater, they might spend 10 or 20 minutes in the museum, and then that's
it. And then there's this whole vast sanctuary just beyond that, that is where the bathhouses were,
where the various temples to different gods were, and where this dormitory where people would go to
sleep and have sacred sleep or divine dreams. And so I've been very interested in this idea of sacred
sleep and enchimesis, what it actually means, and looking at it entomologically, enchimesis
means something like being put to sleep in a particular place. So there is the act of falling
asleep or being put to sleep in a particular place, and the place is important because obviously
something is anticipated by sleeping in a particular place. I think this idea of divine dreaming and
sacred sleep is something that's super ancient, that Stone Age people were doing, they were sleeping
to contact the spirit of the earth, and it eventually became more and more complex. And as
we were saying when we were talking beforehand, the entire sanctuary of Asclepius, which is a very
sophisticated, holistic healing sanctuary, and I don't think you can overstate how holistic it was,
it had libraries, gymnasiums, but bathhouses of every kind, like great food, there were diet
regimens organized for people. And the divine dream was the kind of culmination of all of this
work done to get the body in a healthy state as possible to receive this information from the
God. So I slept on this as well. And in my dream, I was in the, I was in the avatar. And in my dream,
I had this understanding that there was the avatar, which was where they actually performed
surgeries and where you only went if you were having a surgery, because obviously they were
we know they were performing actual surgeries because we found scalpels and needles and all of
the kind of genuine surgeon gear that you would associate with actual surgeries and operations.
And there were records of surgeries happening, even sex changes and things like this. So
the avatar in my dream was where they, they did all these secret things, the physicians were
actually performing these physical operations that the ordinary members of the public, the ordinary
pilgrims weren't to see. So the avatar means a place that no one can go into. It's like the sacred
inner sanctum, but it means you can't tread there, you know, one can tread there, you can't step foot
upon in this sacred place. And then the Enchimaterion is the place where you would go to sleep and
have your divine dreams of a Sclepius. And one of the people I've been talking to is a classicist
and philologist was saying that he thinks Enchimesis describes this idea of sacred sleep,
describes sleep, the kind of quality of sleep that you have when you are put under anesthetic.
And it's the groggy visions and hallucinations that you have as you're waking up. And they're
almost certainly using anesthetics in the Sclepia, I would say, because the use of things like
mandrake, dial nail, poison, has been well known since the ancient Near East. So, but in my dream,
let's get back to that. One of the things that we shouldn't rule out or shouldn't forget about when
we think about the Sanctuary of Sclepius is that these serpents were allowed to roam freely around
and they were considered to be the animal form of the god. Serpents and dogs were the animal
form of a Sclepius. And in my dream, the serpents were trained serpents and they could smell you
and they could smell where there were wounds or diseases on you. And in most of the imagery that
you see from the sanctuaries, the serpents do look very friendly, they look very tame and they're
all over you. And I could, I was having this experience as being a dream pilgrim of that time,
that that attention that you're receiving from the serpents gives them this extra sense of consciousness,
awareness of divinity, because they're interested in me, they wouldn't, a snake would normally be
scared of a human, but these snakes are all over you and smelling you. And snakes do have
extraordinary olfactory capabilities, even more so than dogs, they have this thing called a
Jacobson's organ on the roof of their mouth. So they're breathing in like complex smells and are
able to identify billions of different smells. And so I think it would be quite sensible that
you would have trained serpents. I mean, there was an extra bit of my dream, you're talking about,
there was an extra bit of your dream, where the priests in my dream were feeding the serpents
slithers of organs that they'd cut out of some of their patients. I'm not sure if that was real.
But in the dream, it was saying that this was somehow transmuting the illness of the patient
and making it good and whole by being absorbed by the God. But anyway, I think it's really
interesting to sleep and dream on these things. And I always went, if there's something I'm puzzling
over, or I have a query about these practices in ancient times, that's my favorite activity to do.
Because like you say, we never really know. But it's interesting to try to access ideas in altered
states. And dreams are the perfect place to do this, especially. Absolutely. And I do feel that
being inspired by a vision while sitting looking at a piece of art, or sitting looking at a statue,
or sitting looking at a particular carving, or a place, even purely natural places,
natural settings. These are not to be passed by. These are not experiences to be passed by. They're
no less meaningful than the things you would get in what you might call actual dream, what people
think of as ordinary dream state where we have a lot of symbolism taking place. There's a lot of
things that can come to us, like, for example, standing at the Hathor Bowl, for example. And
the things that came to me there, many other places. Yeah, they're not things to be just
taken lightly. They're by themselves. There's a lot of symbolism there, a lot of really useful
symbolism that tells you a lot. So I really like what you've just said about the snakes, definitely.
Well, I think there's also something about great art, you know, this idea of being struck by the
muse in ancient Greece as well, I find very interesting. And my muse, my patron goddess,
is Mene Mosini. And I think because she's the mother of all of the muses, and she's described
as a personification of divine remembrance, she's kind of a psychopomp in the Orphic tradition.
And she, to me, is the personification of lucidity, because she's remembering yourself
in the great dream. And there's a kind of inspiration and ecstasy that comes to you in
a dream that I think Mene Mosini is the muse of. She's the muse of that kind of inspiration,
which we've kind of ironically forgotten about. So the fact that she was such an important goddess
as well in the Sleep Temple traditions quite often is significant, I think. And she also
represents this, you know, her opposite is Lethi, the goddess of oblivion, the goddess of forgetting.
And I think there's something to be said, though, like hypnosis is a great example of this relationship
between Lethi and Mene Mosini, I think, because if you look at the Oracle of Trefonius, for example,
it was this last resort oracle that people would visit if they had a problem or they
wanted to know something. But there's something interesting for me about the fact that to drink
the waters of oblivion first, and there's something that reminds me of hypnosis in that,
especially if you're you're practicing hypnosis in order to feel someone ofophobia,
they need to forget their patterns and their programming before and remember
like that divine source and the divine nature of their being. Right, yeah, absolutely. And so
and so in a similar way to Isis and the function of Isis in the remembering of Osiris, you know,
that's the Namazini type of view as well, you know, it's like that's the function of the goddess
piecing back that which is scattered, you know, gathering it all back together again,
which is forming a holism again, which is which is the very meaning of the healing that takes place.
So by actually forming that by bringing the healing that's necessary, the trajectory of the soul
remembers where it's from. And that's the point is that we are fragmented humanity,
the state of ordinary humanity is generally fragmented and in great pain as a result of the
forgetting that you were talking about. So that's actually, yeah, the forgetting and the fragmentation
is actually another way to look at it is the fact that it's, yeah, it's this state of blindness
that the majority of the human race are in, while they're desperately trying to remember
their divine source. Yeah, I guess I mean, the mysteries of Elefsina are often described as,
you know, dying before you die and releasing that fear of death. And there are some
initiator equalities definitely within the sanctuary. So I think the sacred sleep,
the divine dreaming itself is a form of initiation. And if you look at so the,
the kind of companion sometimes described as the son of Asclepius is Telus for us and he is
bringer of fulfillment and he represents completion of the cure. And it is like you say,
this return to wholeness, this perfecting of the human organism and the human soul. And I guess
that this is what's missing from the NHS really, isn't it? This concept of the soul, they could do
with thinking in a much more holistic way. Like, I think the understanding that beauty
can have a healing effect is so important. And when you do visit the site, say the sanctuary
of Asclepius and any of these asclepia, because there were so many, there's like 400 in the
ancient Greek world, like across Europe, there's even a sleep temple in England in Gloucestershire,
that there's this appreciation for beauty. And these sites were always chosen because they had
a lot of natural beauty. They had natural spring water. There was this Hellenic understanding
of feng shui, I think, you know, that these things have an effect. And you look at some of the
structures at the sanctuary of Asclepius as well. For example, the Thimeli, the great tholos that
was built, they're the most expensive building ever built in the Peloponnese is exquisitely built,
like it's extremely beautiful. And I think, like you say, beauty and inspiration and appreciating
great art is connecting somehow to this divine resonance, because those great works of art,
all those great efforts of incredible craftsmanship, they were made by inspired people. And when
inspired people make things, you feel it in your body and soul. And that can help you.
And so I think, you know, music is obviously very important. And the arts were very important
in the sanctuary of Asclepia. There would have been great art competitions and drama competitions.
And the, the Mysteries of Elafsina incorporated Asclepius into the greater mysteries, they had
the Feast of Asclepius Day. So it was recognized that some, your sick self died, basically, in the
Androgyn self was reborn. Right, yes, exactly. And, and that's, like we were saying, you know,
the Apollonian type of invocation to bring that energy in is to, is to reharmonize and,
and to bring temperance back into the being. And that's, that's basically, you know,
reestablishing the principle of Mart in the old Egyptian analogy. So bringing that back again,
you know, interesting. You mentioned Mart. And I think there's also something about when you
create, because the impressive, the feeling that I get when I go to the sanctuary of Asclepius is
that it's a divine enclosure. It's a sacred precinct. It's encircled by the sacred grove.
And there's something about once you pass through that sacred grove, you're in divine territory,
and everything there is perfect. And in ancient times, you can imagine that everything was perfect.
The buildings were perfect. The waterways were perfect. The water was perfectly clear and pure.
There was harmonious music playing. There were therapeutic. There were treatments to get you
back to full health. And there's something about that that reminds me of that. I think it was like
an experiment in addiction, where you put rats into an environment that's enriched and full of
beautiful things and nice food and healthy things and entertaining games. And they will give up
being addicted to crack or whatever the scientists have put them on, because that's what scientists
do. And, you know, I think it's true that if you're in a beautiful, harmonious environment,
you become more beautiful and harmonious. And I think that ancient people understood that. And
perhaps that comes from this less egotistical, individualistic way of seeing the world, because
if you place any organism into a beautiful environment, then you tend to calibrate somehow to
that environment, because there's always interaction and conversation and communication
happening between the different organisms and the organizational forces in that space.
So I think that that is something that ancient Greeks were consciously trying to do when they
were creating these healing sanctuaries. I couldn't agree more. I couldn't agree more. Yeah,
there's definitely that sense of it. Yeah, definitely that sense of it.
Yeah, and another thing, another thing as well is at Alephsis, when I was there
the last time, it was so clear to me that when you see all of the different elements of the space,
you know, you've got the Cave of Hades, you've got the Colichron. Is it Colichron? The Well?
I don't know what you say, the Colichron Well, where you had Demeter and Persephone.
And then you've got the Telesterion over there. And everything in the immediate zone is literally
no more than, you know, a minute's walk from each place. So there's this incredible feeling
that there was just a huge psychodrama that would have happened in that immediate space.
And all of those spaces were used by actual people going through those, reenacting those
myths, basically. Yeah, I think it's one of my favorite archaeological sites there, because
one thing that I think is really interesting that I noticed they haven't done in a lot of the
archaeological sites is they've maintained the sacred way. So the way that you enter the archaeological
site is along the original sacred way. It gives you an amazing sense of entering it. So when you
enter the Asclepia, you enter it in a completely wrong place. But there's something about El Efsina
that you enter it on the sacred way, because a pilgrim would have done, and I love that. And you
get this immediate sense, like, you know where you're going, like the flow through the space is
incredible. Yeah, yeah, absolutely, absolutely. So yeah, all of these places still have a hell
of a lot to give to us. That's absolutely for certain. And how do you think, you know,
does Mesmer claim that mesmerism is deriving from ancient Egyptian practices of magnetism?
Well, no, I don't think Mesmer claimed that. But in my opinion, from seeing plenty of evidence
of Egyptian, you know, the centers, there was a very strong emphasis upon actual centers within
the human body, which are there within certain glowing disks, which are placed in certain statues,
or in the, say, for example, the body of Newt often has these centers. There's also another
image that I have where you have Isis, Zyrus, and Horus, and they're all in a line,
and they're doing the usual Egyptian postures. But those Egyptian postures, we think of them
often as like, oh, there is the priest, you know, doing a, or the priestess doing an act of worship.
But it's very often overlooked that they're actually in the magnetic, in the posture of
magnetic transmission. You know, it's really clear to me. Also, when you see them magnetizing
the specific centers in the body in some of these images, it becomes even more clear, you know,
they're working with very specific centers in some of these images.
Well, I think the West, for example, like Peter Kingsley talks a lot about there being
a tradition not unlike Indian sages transmitting wisdom that happened for Hellenic philosophers,
but that it kind of got lost. And there's a tradition where healing really is similar to
what we might look at when we look at shamanic healing actually looks very similar to shamanic
healing. And that there was an idea of chakras or energy centers within the body in ancient Greece,
but that those things because they're represented different and don't get recognized as being
chakras or don't get recognized. I mean, even with Egyptian concepts of the heart is quite
interesting because the heart is seen as the seat of the soul. It encloses the car and the bar.
It's where the intellect resides even. And I think the ancient Egyptian word translates as
something like scullful. They knew that the brain did stuff. They knew that the brain was important.
And if anyone had a brain injury, they knew that they couldn't do certain things because
they had a brain injury, but they didn't see it as being like the seat of emotions or the seat of
inspiration and ideas or love. They saw the heart as being more important there. And then you have
this concept of union as well in ancient Egypt. The smart highway,
hieroglyph that shows the heart and windpipe entwined. And there's this, I guess, like there's
a concept in Egypt, similarly, as there is in Greece of this ideal person, you know,
this harmonized person, usually a man, but there's a harm. There's a sense of like a harmony of
the forces within a person. And usually the ideal man is humble. It's the same in Egypt
as it is in Greece that the ideal man is a humble person and that he has his tempers in check.
And that that can be achieved. It seems like it's achieved through some form of meditation or some
form of non-ordinary practice, you know, practice of an exercise in consciousness.
Yeah, absolutely. Yes. Yes. Well, again, once again, it's very much about consciousness itself
and conscious awareness. I think we just got a message. I'm going to ask anyone if they want
any questions at this point. Yes, that might be quite good. Lucerne said, are there any written
sources where we can read up on the sleep temples and possibly even the connection with Mesma?
Right. Okay. To my knowledge, I haven't come across any external satisfactory materials where we can
learn about the actual sleep temples, other than it mentioned scattered throughout a few,
a few different books. There have been books written on hypnosis. I can't remember, unfortunately,
of those at the moment, where the Asclepian sleep temples are mentioned. And also this
connection we're talking about with Imhotep. So I'm pretty sure if you do a Google search or
something on the internet, you'll come across which books feature this material quite easily.
Yeah. Sorry. There's a few books on sleep temples that Jill Remberg wrote a kind of exhaustive
time that costs about 500 quid, but you can get a PDF of it online. And that looks at evidence
across the Greco-Roman world for any sleep temple ever where dreams may come. I can send out anyone
who wants to know like a reading list of anything that relates to dream temples because I've tried
to find everything. But as far as I'm aware as well, there's nothing that links Mesma and
sleep temple practices. No. I think the most interesting thing is the fact that through the
Pythagorean tradition, Mesma is more closely related to the Pythagorean tradition than people
think. So you have the whole idea of the harmony. In fact, his own society was called the Society
of Harmony. So he was working with that whole idea of harmonization, with the Apollonian
principles, and actually to a large extent, the Pythagorean tradition also had connections with
the Therapute. So they were very, very closely linked. Never mind that actually Pythagoras was
supposed to have brought the knowledge from Egypt originally as well.
Stefan asked, the UK Sleep Temple is in Lidney Park. Yes, Lidney Park in Gloucestershire,
dedicated to the God Nodans, was worked on by Tessa and Mortimer Wheeler,
were the archaeologists working on it, and they were assisted by Tolkien, who used it as inspiration
for Right and Lord of the Rings. Yeah, that's right. It's on like a private estate that is only
open for a couple of weeks out of the year for a Rhododendron Festival, Lidney Park estate.
Darren says, what is the most important single practice we can implement to learn to sense
magnetic energy and or experience waking dream experiences? And where can we learn about this?
Okay, so I myself do specialist courses in precisely these techniques. The next one I have on
is on the, let me see, the 25th to the 30th of October this year. That'll be taking place in
Glastonbury. And if you go to www.arcarnetherapies.com, so that's all one word, arcarnetherapies.com,
you'll see more information about that course and how to book onto it. So with regards to
these techniques, it's very much based in the, I'll just answer that question seeing as it's
popped up. Yes, I still do British Museum Tools. You can go on arcarnerevents.com and you can
book onto those. Yeah, so as I was saying, the actual way you actually enter into this energy
is through present moment awareness. So we do a lot of training in present moment awareness. And
once that we've actually started charging and supercharging the energy, it's then very easy
to start using it. So that's very much what it is. And also we can find that it has a great
amplifying effect upon our relationship to other things in the natural landscape and with other
bodies, other bodies of any kind, other people, animals, trees, rocks, springs, and so on.
You know, this reminds me a little bit of actually, I remember one of our early interactions, I was
reading Knowledge of the Higher Wells by Rudolf Steiner. Oh, yes, yes. One of the exercises in
that, and this reminds me a lot of what you're saying about energy emanating from things,
is to identify the energy that are coming from living and dead things and you become sensitive to
things that are dead and things that are living or have a charge. And it becomes
very strong after a while. And I was trying to explain to someone what the sense is because
you just do this practice where you sit with something, say a plant that's very obviously alive
and a plant that's very obviously dead, and you feel the difference in the energetic field of it.
And then you become more sensitive to it and you're able to like walk down a street, for example.
One of the things I noticed was that if you're walking down a street where some people have
gardens and some people have drives, it's like alive, alive, alive, dead, dead, dead, alive,
alive. And you, the feeling is like, it's a sensation, but I would describe the sense as
being quite close to hearing. It's like really, it's an interesting, because he talks as well about
cultivating your sensory, your organs of sensory perception, which I found really interesting.
So, and he talks about, you know, the more you cultivate these organs, the more you're able to
see these different spiritual realms. I love the way that Steiner writes about these things.
I mean, he was a real visionary, I think, in terms of he had this absolute sense of
how to communicate these things to people and exactly what he wanted to say.
Do you think that the experience of sensing magnetism, is that something similar to that?
Very much, very, very much, yes. And like I say, from doing certain exercises,
you can begin to come into direct contact with that very, very quickly. So, it's something
that I kind of, I'm quite, I'm quite directive with people when we do courses. I make sure I
keep an eye on every single person, so that I can keep giving them the necessary prods that they need
to stay completely conscious of what's happening to them in all the time. So, we just keep driving
that process until eventually you begin to, you begin to feel it.
Will says, how can hypnosis best be used to enhance one's lucid dream practice?
Right, well, there's the famous, famous Castanadas, find your hands in a dream
technique. Now, of course, I mean, you can reinforce with what I call traditional hypnosis,
which is usually involving non, not nonverbal, but verbal suggestions, such as,
tonight, I will find my hands in a dream. Tonight, I will find my hands in a dream,
it will be easy and natural for me to do so. And, you know, you just basically make suggestions
before you go to bed, you might even just sit there on a park bench one day when you've got
a few relaxing minutes to yourself and just take a few deep breaths and just repeat to yourself
tonight. I will find my hands in a dream. In the beginning, when I was doing lucid dreaming,
I found this to be the most simple, straightforward, really super simple method.
It took a little while, maybe a couple of weeks, but as soon as I, as soon as I literally found my
hands in the dream, I, you know, so I will find my hands in the dream, I will look at my hands,
and when I see my hands, I will know that I am dreaming. And I will say to myself,
I know that I am dreaming. Once that you've done that, and I'll give you one example of a time
when that happened to me, I was grabbing hold of a rock. I was grabbing hold of a very, very
hard bristly rock. It seemed like some sort of bubbly volcanic rock with lots of sharp edges. So,
it was even going as far as to say, I'm really making it so obvious that this material underneath
your hands is like painful for you to hold. And as I was doing it, I'm actually looking at my hands
gripping the rock, and I'm actually properly beginning to observe my hands. And then as a
result of that, you start to look around you and you can change colors, you can start to mess around
with like different parameters of colors and sizes of things. And once that you're on that
trajectory, if you can keep that going, then you can enter into some really, really quite fun spaces.
I think we're always kind of hypnotizing ourselves in terms of programming our dream
content. It's about making conscious decisions about what you want in there. Have a lot of people
come to my dream things that watch loads of horror movies and then they're like, oh, I don't know,
I have nightmares all the time. But, you know, the more the things that I always, I always say,
watch Holy Mountain, Jodorowsky's Holy Mountain. It's a psycho magic quest through the major
arcana. And you, it's just perfect dream photo. It's so graphic, so colorful, so visually like
extraordinary that you just can't help but process that in your dreams. And I have thought that,
you know, a lot of these psycho dramas that would have happened at LFC or at the Sanctuary of Asclepius
may have been processed most deeply in the dream state because that is the dream food,
the experiences that we have in our everyday waking life. The statues of the gods can come
alive in our dreams and they will come alive in our dreams because if we're seeing serpents
writhing around on the floor, we're likely to incorporate them into our dreams at some point.
And one of the, I mean, I use, I use a form of sleep hypnosis, a guided hypnagogic meditation
when I take people to the Sanctuary of Asclepius to imagine themselves in that place in ancient times
and to try to seed hypnagogia with some of these symbols and images and ideas of the god. And
obviously it works very effectively if you're actually there. But I think that one of the things
that is really good as a practice is that learning to expand, extend and become more aware of
hypnagogia so that you can, you can navigate it and find yourself in a dream proper without ever
really losing consciousness. Like I always describe it like Alice falling down the hole in,
falling down a rabbit hole in Alice in Wonderland. Like you're kind of drifting through hypnagogia
and the dream is the corridor at the bottom of the tunnel. And one of the things that I think
works really well as well. And it's something that I think was incorporated into a lot of
ancient oracles is any sounds of nature that form this kind of background from which
you can start to hear murmurings and sounds like running trickling water.
You can start to hear oracles if you listen to trickling water or you listen to some kind of
hubbubby noise in the background. There's something about it that seems to provoke.
It's a bit like a kind of audio version of Paradolia when you start to see faces in things.
You start to hear voices. Sometimes when I do yoga nidra and I use a recording to do yoga nidra,
the voice in the recording turns into like a dream dialogue. And I'm conscious of the fact
that there's this yoga nidra audio track that I'm listening to, but there's also this dream
dialogue that's happening simultaneously. And it's like my brain is making new forms out of this
background material. Absolutely. Very good. You mentioned about making things out of,
say for example, there's one really interesting event that happened to me a couple of years ago.
It was about three years ago. I was actually in Germany and I was literally out in the Bavarian
mountains just decided to do a little bit of divination on a map. Where would be a really
important place to go? Where is a particular place that will act like a bit of a portal
that we can start to access something? So did a little bit of divination over the map.
And lo and behold, this one place, the pendulum kept getting drawn to this one place.
And then selected the part because it was a paper map and then went into Google Earth
and got closer and closer and found the actual place that it was pointing to was a place
called Calda Brunnen. Calda Brunnen, which means in German means cold spring.
And I thought, oh right, so it's actually landed on a cold spring. So in reality,
going to this particular place and then walking up through these mountain tracks
got completely lost. I didn't know. But then the pendulum said out of these forks this way. So
went this way and ended up coming across this strange little sort of stack of bricks in the
middle of an absolutely perfectly natural place where a stack of bricks looked completely out of
place. But it was a well cover on the side of a really steep tall Bavarian mountain.
And I could sit on the top of this well and you could hear the waters underneath.
And the sunlight was, the wind was blowing in the trees and it gave you that sort of dappled,
breezy light over your eyelids. And then you had all of the sound of the wells in stereo
and as you sat there, it started to sound like chime bars. And then it turned into these amazing,
amazing visions of like literally like double helixes in golden and fiery golden light, you know,
and the sounds were in stereo. It starts to sound like an angelic choir. Wow. So it really was
quite an incredible place. And there was another peculiar thing that happened at that particular
point where for a period of at least an hour afterwards, it felt like the world was upside
down somehow. Yeah, I mean, it's interesting to me like how easy it can be to access these altered
states, especially if you take away the distractions of modern life. I think that one issue so many
people have is addiction to devices or looking at their phones or feeling like they're a slave to
their clock or their calendar. And, you know, healing occurs when you're removed from these
environments. Like I always joke with the people that come on my retreats that they're held in the
healing lands of Asclepius. And it's amazing how people will recover from things that have played
to them for ages. And I think the biggest part of it is just removing them from a noisy, distracting
world. And like you know yourself, Epidavros is incredibly quiet, incredibly still. And I have
thought as well, because it's, you know, Greece is quite volcanic. And I think in these countries
where you feel volcanic energies, pulses in the earth, much greater sense of the earth as being a
living being, the sense of the, you know, the tide coming in and out as being a breath and a pulse.
And it's so much, it's so much more tangible in those volcanic places. And I think this is
part of the reason why so much philosophy and so much wisdom comes from these countries that are
volcanic is because they have this much more firsthand experience of the earth being a living
being that was sustaining them through heat, through water, through life. Yeah.
Right, Sam says, there are many occult schools where the practitioner beams some sort of astral
influence into someone's aura. Is there anything that make, anything that makes mesmerism unique
in this regard? Like how might it differ from say something like Shakti Pat, that's quite, you know,
like this guru transmission? Well, I mean, what you're doing here, really, if you're doing mesmerism
proper, is you're actually, you're actually, first of all, you're in yourself, working with the
principles of harmonization. So you, you work on the harmonization of the self energetically.
And once that you've actually, you're able to reach that state in the self, as you, as you
work with the other, you begin to become very sensitive to what needs balancing and what needs a
justing in the other person. You're not beaming an astral influence into the other person.
You're literally forming a lemniscap between the other and you're actually forming an ability to
form a harmonization or bring the other, the other individual into a greater sense of present
moment awareness, which of itself is a, is a sense of healing. Because we were actually
disconnected from ourselves most of the time, or were too much in our minds or too much in our
thoughts, not actually grounded and rooted in the body, receiving the information that the body
gives to us. You know, so because it may sound trite to say, but the body speaks to us all the
time, you know, and we need to, we need to spend more time listening to it. You know, we live in
a world where we would rather override what the body's telling us than to listen to it and do
what's appropriate, for example. You know, we, we push ourselves too hard, often.
And so what we're doing is we're, we're harmonizing the other. We're not, we're not necessarily
transmitting something into them. Although that can be done, you know, we're not necessarily
that can be done. You know, you can use it that way. You can implant things in another person
if you want to work that way. But mesmerism proper just, that isn't what it is.
So how do you experience, say for example, a treatment on someone? Do you have any kind of,
is there any visual phenomena? Is it a feel, is it a felt sense? How do you experience it?
Well, actually, there's one really good example of one particular individual that,
who came to one of my courses once, who I was sitting in the break, I think it was after the
first day of the course beginning, and we were sitting drinking a cup of tea together. And as
I was speaking to him, I knew virtually nothing about his work, nothing about his background
anything like this, and suddenly started to feel a kind of pricking sensation down
towards the left hand side of my throat, at the base of my neck.
And I said to him, and it just gave me the immediate impression that I have to say to him,
look, sorry to have to stop you here, but I'm getting this pricking sensation at the bottom
of my neck. And he just looked at me and said, that's incredible. He said, I've been trying
to work on that particular point. And I'm an acupuncturist. And I've been working on that
particular point for years trying to get it right. And he got like some sort of throat problem
that he'd been working on as well, and other other forms of emotional blockage that he'd been
working on. And during that particular session, we worked on it really, really quickly, and
got it all cleared out. So in answer to that question, sometimes you get very, very strong
physiological sensations that tell you exactly what's happening. Like for example, in yourself,
you may get like a very, very strong sense of tension in your solar plexus that tells you that
you have to rebalance that within yourself, and then send it out to the other, and then get that
so that it forms part of the lemniscat again, and you actually get like that energy flowing
between the two, and it becomes like a pulse. So it's kind of like a feedback mirroring system
in some sense that if you were to, you know, by being in that physical presence, you start to
experience their sensations, and by sticking them on, you can transmute them somehow.
Yes, yes. And I know that a lot of people in a lot of other healing therapies would say, oh,
my gosh, you know, you're going to be taking on a lot of the other person's problems,
you're going to be taking on a lot of the other person's imbalances, and so on.
And of course, you can, if you wish, you know, do all the traditional cleansing methods.
But a practitioner that's really been working for a long time, and has actually been working very
hard and very sufficiently on their work, working with present moment awareness that
itself is like, is actually the harmonising element, and can actually override any needs to do any of
those cleansing exercises.
That's amazing. Really interesting.
Really interesting. Do these things tend to have like knock-on effects to sleep
quality and dream quality? Because I imagine that they may do.
Yes, yes. And this is interesting. This is interesting. This has been a constant source
of fascination for me, and also something which I deliberately, on occasions, work in a different
way, because there are times when I deliberately want to enter the dream world more than I do at
other times, and there are times when I know that the dream world is not necessarily the place
that's going to get me what I need for that particular point in time either. So what I mean
is like, for example, if you're working a lot with present moment awareness, it tends to evaporate
your dreams. Because when you're working a lot with dreams, you tend to be going more into
the emotions and your emotional responses to things, and then your internal visions grow,
and your connection to these internal visions grow, and it tends to be very emotional because
it's very linked to the lunar body. It's very linked to, of course, the lunar body has different
levels, but it's linked to the lunar body, especially to the emotional part of the lunar
body, which is the vegetative aspect of the self. When you're dealing with present moment
awareness, you're actually going more into the electrical, bio-electrical field than you are
into the magnetic lunar field. So the lunar field tends to be more of the magnetic aspect,
linked, of course, to the car. And to some extent as well, on its lower level, linked to the
animal body, or the nephesh, as they say, as they call it in the Kabbalah.
So sometimes you need to come into contact with that. Sometimes it's absolutely necessary.
On other occasions, it's appropriate, depending on what kind of work you're doing,
to evaporate it. So this is where it becomes quite alchemical, because sometimes
you're trying to, you know, you're trying to work in a more wet way. Sometimes you're trying to work
in a more dry way. Great. Does anyone else have any questions? We've been going on for a while
now, so thank you so much, Lee, by the way. It's been brilliant. It's been so nice to chat to you
again. Yeah, well, I feel oddly feel like I'm only just getting started. I know, we should, well,
let me know when you're going to do a British Museum thing, because I'll be up for coming here.
And then also come and see me in my Peach bungalow in Greece as well. Love to see you in Epidavros.
It'd be amazing. Oh, yes, of course, of course. Yes, great. Okay. Oh, Daryne, fantastic. Thank you.
So, thank you, Sarah. My pleasure, as always.
Great. Okay, well, I've recorded this, so I will share it with you, Lee, and share it with anyone
else that wants to view it. But thank you so much. We touched on loads of different subjects there,
and we went into some areas that I wasn't anticipating we would go, but never mind. Oh,
that's good. Thank you so much, Lee. It was brilliant. Bye now. Cheers. Bye-bye, everyone.
