A few days ago, my friend Ryan Heavyhead made a video called Beware the Rectangles, in which
he talked about a kind of hypnotic awareness problem that we have in relation to nature,
in that we are often found in nature but not really aware of nature.
And there were a couple of other important aspects to his gentle rant, including the
idea that there isn't really in us and them that this is sort of a construct, and also
that the rectangle is a hypnotic induction device, which is being used very ubiquitously
in our culture without our common awareness.
I wanted to take some time and respond to some of these ideas with my own video, which
I'm calling Scare the Rectangles, because I think that armed with the proper awareness
and understanding, we can transform our relationship with some of these elements of our human experience
and culture.
Possibly we can produce something like an untrans, kind of way of continuous awakening,
and that we can explore ways to radically alter our relationships with our culture and its
transports.
Before I go much further, I'd like to take a moment and issue this gentle warning, which
is that we are going to use recursion in the sense that we're going to bend the power of
the rectangle, in which you're probably watching this video, back upon itself and use it against
the power of rectangles.
This is a strategy familiar to many people in martial arts, where we are often trained
to redirect the momentum of an opponent rather than produce our own and meet the opponent
with that.
There is a possibility of using recursion in a very subversive and kind of radical way,
particularly when we're dealing with paradox, and I think as we move forward in my discussion
we will see that many of the features of the problems that we face in our cultures, in
our thought and in our awareness, have to do both with paradox and perhaps to some degree
with recursion, and there's a peculiar form of recursion known as feedback, which most
musicians are familiar with, and a lot of videographers are familiar with this as well,
because when we direct an input source to receive input from its own output, we get
this effect, and for guitar players this produces a sort of screaming wail from an
amplifier, and for a videographer it produces a kind of Hall of Mirrors effect.
It's my experience that consciousness itself has something to do with recursion or self-reference
or reflexivity, and since we're going to be looking at some of the features of consciousness,
including hypnosis, meditation, and a kind of unconscious, trance-like behavior, I think
it's important to introduce this concept at the beginning.
Fundamentally, I'm hoping that you will have an experience of invitation here, an invitation
to explore many of these avenues of our cognitive and relational selves.
So enough about the warning.
In terms of the idea that there is no us and them, I think it's important to recognize
that there are some very peculiar features of our evolutionary and biological heritage
that we should pay close attention to in the beginning.
We belong to a phylum known as bilateria.
This means bilateral, essentially, or bilaterally, and involves a bilateral symmetricity.
We are bilaterally symmetrical.
What most of us are not clearly aware of is that the two sides of our body are actually
very different, even though they look like reflections of one another.
The right ear hears differently than the left ear.
The right eye sees a bit differently than the left eye.
The right side of our body, including our hand and our foot, functions relatively differently
from the left side, whether we are right or left-handed.
And this is in part due to the peculiar structure of our brains.
We are a dual hemisphere creature, and these hemispheres have some astonishing properties
that many of us are not aware of.
The left hemisphere, which contains many of the languaging elements, even though these
are also influenced by the right hemisphere, is pretty much the one who talks, the one
talking to you right now.
And this hemisphere is only aware of the left hemisphere, that is, of the right half of
the body.
It doesn't see the left half as part of itself.
Given the proper stimulus, it might even attack the other side of the body as an invader.
It is prone to building narratives and stories and models of things, which are often very
reductive, catastrophically inaccurate, can be almost completely invented, and yet it
will happily champion these models against any and all comers.
It's very interested in acclaim and getting noticed, and it doesn't have really any awareness
or esteem for its other half.
In fact, the left hemisphere has a set of fibers that connect it to the right, which
actually actively inhibit the right hemisphere, particularly while we are talking and while
we are awake.
And of course, these two hemispheres compete for fuel, which in this sense we could clumsily
call sugar.
And when the left hemisphere is active, like mine is right now, the right hemisphere is
pretty much thoroughly inhibited.
So the left hemisphere seems to me a bit like a prosthesis, with which the right hemisphere,
that has some very different capacities and functions, comes to know the world.
The right hemisphere is aware of both halves of the body.
It's aware of its sinister companion.
And it is not very talkative.
It doesn't have a concrete idea of self.
It has a relatively liquid idea of self, which is familiar to us more from dreaming than
from our waking experience.
And the right hemisphere is involved in things like spatio-temporal evaluation, making sure
we don't bump into things, things that preserve our survival.
If the right hemisphere were to become like the left and become interested in being noticed
and complimented and such, we probably wouldn't live very long, or we would live in a very
injured state, because the right hemisphere is often too busy kind of keeping us alive
to take the stage and be applauded.
So you can see that we are, in this sense, somewhat internally conflicted.
And I think most of our lives we live in a linguistic, trance-like state, where we tell
ourselves stories, and the more we tell them, the more we believe them, and these stories
seem to be good models of ourselves and the world, our history, what things mean, what
value they have, what their functions are, things like this.
These are all pretty much linguistic models that we follow in our waking lives.
So it seems to me that we awaken from sleep into a set of trance-like behaviors where
we become unconscious of ourselves, of the world around us, of our potentials, for the
sake of more deeply following linguistics, language, stories, narratives.
So I think one of the things that's interesting is that we have a kind of an us and them built
into us.
The right hemisphere understands the whole game as us, the left hemisphere basically
sees them.
And these two, although they function together in healthy bodies and minds as a unity, much
like our body tends to do, we are deeply conflicted.
And when we say we're talking about, for example, the self, well, we're really only talking
about the part of the self that talks.
In other words, the part of the self that recognizes itself as the self is less than
half of the self.
And it's really difficult to get that other part involved in the dialogue or expressing
itself clearly.
It's not impossible, neuroscientists have discovered ways to kind of peek at the consciousness
of the right hemisphere under peculiar conditions.
And often it is found in the boldest kind of contradiction to whatever the left is saying.
There are some other ways that this us and them story pervades both our history and culture.
And in fact, it seems pretty clear to me that the left hemisphere, which is dominant in
our common experience, is also dominant in our cultures and that our cultures are being
led around into catastrophic misbehavior, misrelation, confusion, rapacious misunderstanding
of our relationship with nature and each other.
And every kind of trouble by stories, books, laws, rules, concrete linguistic constructs
that we follow as though they are reality when, in fact, most of reality is missing
from them.
They are gross reductions of reality.
But this has been going on a long time.
In the Bible, in the early part of the Bible, after the big trouble at the tree, we come
across Cain and Abel.
Cain is essentially a farmer, a tiller of earth, a divider of matters, much like the
left hemisphere is.
Abel is born second, kind of a shepherd, brings things together and watches their shapes as
they flow over the land, not really imposing his will on anything, much like the right
hemisphere.
Cain becomes concerned that perhaps God likes Abel better and gets them to engage in a contest
where they both make an offering to God.
God prefers Abel's offering.
Cain decides to kill Abel, thus banishing him to the underworld, possibly the land
of dreaming, where, in fact, our right hemisphere seems to come into a dominant relationship
with the left, and then goes on to lie to God about it.
This is really interesting because, of course, the left hemisphere has been basically proven
to sit around lying a lot in certain neuropsychological experiments done by people like V.S. Ramashandran.
And in many experiments throughout the history of psychology and neuroscience.
So we can see that this paradigm of us and them kind of goes way, way back into our history.
And in fact, it seems to me that the story of Cain and Abel is a bit of a parable about
our cognitive nature, and also about which half won the initial conflict.
It seems pretty clear that the left hemisphere owns our modern cultures and our civilization
and is driving them toward extremely self-destructive and very deceptive forms of behavior which
it continues to grandize and demand as the only reasonable or possible way forward, which,
of course, is silly.
This conflict goes back to nomads and farmers, people who wander around on the land following
the seasons and food sources and animals, versus people who settle on the land and own
it and want to defend it and plant crops in specific places and cycles.
There's an interesting parallel here between a Navajo creation story and the Cain and Abel
story.
In the Navajo creation story, the firstborn or the Cain-like brother is called something
like Slayer of Alien Gods or just Warrior.
And the secondborn child, who is his companion, is called something like Little Water of the
Moon or just Shaman.
And in the Navajo creation stories, these two brothers don't kill each other.
They don't enter combat against each other.
They work as a unified pair, which is interesting, but the Judeo-Christian model shows these
two brothers in conflict and one killing the other, and that the Navajo model shows
them as dancing together with and for each other for mutual progress and uplift.
Now one of the reasons I compare these two stories is that actually the word Abel comes
from a more accurate pronunciation, which would be Hevel.
And this means something like Puff of Vapor, like the Puff of Vapor that comes when you
go, you know, onto a mirror.
And of course, the two brothers in the Navajo stories are very similar.
One of them is a divider of things, divides them from life.
The warrior and the other is called Little Water of the Moon and Vapor is implied here.
In the Navajo story, the implication is that the warrior is born of the sun and the shaman
is born of the moon.
This implication did not survive if it was ever part of the biblical story.
I think we have a perhaps more significant place we can examine this conflict, which
is in simply nature itself versus human culture.
In this case, we see human culture trying to dominate, reduce to resources, reduce nature
to resources which we then sell or trade, destroy and pretty much not pay any attention
to nature.
We're terrified of it.
It seems like perhaps God likes nature best, so we should kill it or in our human insecurity
we feel threatened by the incredible fertility, dynamism and abundance of nature and so we
have a kind of, we want to have a representational relationship with it, a sort of pornographization
of nature where we're only really interacting with the parts that we can dominate and manipulate
and then of course our technology becomes the prosthesis of this in that we can see
we represent functions of nature in technology which we then own and dominate, thus kind
of extracting nature's magic into something we can concretely and completely own, understand,
deploy.
In every case this reduction is sort of tragic in the same way that pornography is a tragic
reduction of human intimacy.
Now that's not to say that all aspects of technology are only thus.
These matters are intrinsically paradoxical.
We use our linguistic consciousness to lead and also to recognize the world around us.
In many cases when we don't have a name for something we really are not aware of it.
And so it seems that language in a sense is a technology of putting handles on experiences
so that we can manipulate and recognize them more readily.
This isn't in itself bad.
What's difficult is when we are not aware of the conflicts involved, of the dangers involved
in reduction and the use of language and technologies, nor really are we aware of the profound opportunities
that are hidden by these dangers.
This is part of what I want to talk about as we continue forward today.
Now with our complex bicameral minds we are prone to various kinds of trance-like states.
Some of these states can involve increased awareness of our surroundings and relationships.
And others will tend to anesthetize us to some degree and to make what could be conscious
to kind of keep it hidden in our unconscious.
And in order to explore these I'd like to talk about two specific forms of human activity
that are familiar at least by name to most of us, hypnosis and meditation.
To begin with I'd like to talk about hypnosis.
What you see here is an advertisement for a visual focus which is often used to induce hypnosis.
In this case it's a spinning spiral.
And if you look carefully at the spiral you will notice that it appears to, in fact if
you focus on it a little bit, you'll see that it produces these strange kind of moving artifacts
which are common.
We would call them an optical illusion.
But actually this is an effect that is not entirely unlike feedback and it strikes me
that hypnosis is in a sense a way of bending consciousness back upon itself.
So that the trance inducing momentum of consciousness becomes itself the focus and leads us deeper
and deeper into a hypnotic state.
Now actual hypnotism is fairly rigorously defined and it often, when we are hypnotized
we will usually display fairly obvious symptoms of this such as catalepsy, the tendency to
close the eyes often with a fluttering motion.
Deep relaxation, increased suggestibility, heightened imagination and focused attention.
And we can also experience actual anesthesia meaning not being aware of pain.
Hypnosis is a very complex phenomenon that is still to this day not rigorously understood.
Some of the more dominant theories presently imply that hypnosis primarily affects the
left hemisphere and is very involved with languaging.
However, there are some conflicting ideas about this and animals as we know from experiment
can often be hypnotized and they don't seem to have any rigorous representational function
like our language is.
And there are some theories that suppose that it's a left hemisphere door to right hemisphere
activation.
All of this is fairly confusing at the moment.
We don't have a clear consensus from research on the hemispheric lateralization features
of hypnosis.
But it normally begins with repetitive optical focus to focus very carefully on a single object
or it can also begin with an audio induction, the sound of the human voice.
And the rhythm and tone and nature of this voice is somewhat important in producing and
sustaining the hypnotic trance.
Now, Ryan is suggesting that many of the features in our modern culture induce hypnosis.
And I think this is a provocative idea that's useful to explore, but I'd like to differentiate
between actual hypnosis and what I'm going to call a trance-like state.
Actual hypnosis, as I said earlier, is fairly rigorously defined, but I think we're engaged
in trance-like states of pseudo-unconsciousness pretty much consistently.
When we awaken from dreaming, we immediately begin sort of restarting our paradigmatic
understandings of identity, history, our own, and the world's meaning, value, culture,
what we're supposed to be doing, what is correct, what isn't, etc.
So I think that we are used to entering this trance-like state.
And I also think that when we were little prior to acquiring language, this wasn't precisely
the same.
The function and character of the trance-like states that we experienced as children is radically
different from those that we tend to experience as adults after we have undergone sufficient
in languaging and in culturalization.
This isn't going to become an important factor as we proceed.
Now, one of the things that Ryan was suggesting was that some people who are out in nature,
maybe sitting there doing some kind of meditation, are actually in a sort of trance where they're
not really aware of where they are or what's going on around them.
And I agree, this is certainly a possibility.
Before we get too far into that idea, let's move from the spiral, which is a trance induction
trigger, to the enso, which is a symbol often associated with meditation.
Notice that the inside of the spiral is busy and full and seems to be moving with images
of itself.
The inside of the enso is empty.
And rather than being a closed circle, the enso is open to the world, to nature.
It's not filled with constructs, it's filled with openness, like an empty cup.
The shape is very organic, and we can see the implication of a being looking back upon
its beginnings.
We can see the beginning of the enso, and the end of the enso is almost like a face
or the head of a worm, or a snake consuming its own tail, or examining its own tail.
So we can see from the evolved aspect, the end state of the stroke, is actually facing
the beginning state of the stroke.
This is a very peculiar property.
This symbol is often associated with Zen meditation, a meditation in general.
We can differentiate from hypnosis in a variety of ways.
Often, now of course there are many branches and styles of meditation, each with their
own goals and idiosyncrasies, but they tend to share a few features in common.
One of them is a profound intimacy with breathing.
Another is to stop following thoughts.
Another is to allow the mind to settle into its sort of most open relational state, which
is a liquid state, and is not a concrete state.
It's a flowing kind of state, a freely changing state.
Also, most forms of meditation, including Zen, admonish their practitioners to avoid
falling into a trance, in other words, to avoid becoming hypnotized.
Now, hypnosis is often used to solve problems, to reduce pain, to help us form new models
to help us with our self-esteem or psychological issues.
Meditation is a little different.
This goal is usually the acquisition of clarity, deepening awareness, insight, clear attention,
things like this.
I would contrast these two things, and I would also say that it's easy for some forms
of meditation to be hypnotic and to result in trance-like states, as Ryan I think pointed
out in his video, which I think was his concern, that people doing meditation out in nature
were actually not really in nature.
They're just in themselves, as they were before they got there.
That's certainly possible, and probably happens, but not all meditation is thus, and some forms
of meditation could, I think, bring us into deep intimacy with nature under the right
conditions, and in the right kinds of contexts.
Now that we've looked at the spiral, which tends to generate a kind of feedback, and
the enso, which I think is a symbol of a kind of fluid stillness, let's take a look at the
induction trigger that Ryan is most concerned about, which I think is really worth looking
at.
It's this, the rectangle.
Right now, as I'm talking to you, I am sitting at my desk, which is a rectangle, with my
computer, which is a rectangle, and before me, on the screen of my computer, is a rectangle
with a rectangle with a rectangle in it.
Off to my left is the rectangle of my television, my bookshelves, which are rectangles are filled
with rectangular books, my DVDs are rectangles, my bed is a rectangle, the table is a rectangle,
my bathtub is a rectangle.
Just about everywhere I go, there are rectangles all around me.
When I go to the store, everything's packaged in rectangles, we take those up to another
rectangle where we pay for them with little green rectangles or checks in the shape of
rectangles.
They put these in rectangular bags and we walk out of the store with a rectangle filled
with rectangles that we got at the rectangle.
To call the shape ubiquitous would be the wildest kind of understatement, and Ryan would
like us to recognize that this shape is profoundly ubiquitous in our culture and is the transport
of cultural content, and in fact a kind of induction trigger for a trance-like state.
I think this is a provocative and powerful argument.
The rectangle authorizes and legitimizes whatever kind of content appears within it, whether
that is a book or a film or even an advertisement.
When all of these things take advantage of our implicit capacity to enter trance-like
states, which I think is an anciently evolved evolutionary capacity, they take advantage
of this to manipulate us, essentially, and to keep us enmeshed in the culture and divided
from what the rectangle and its content that it transports is a substitute for.
I think it's really important to recognize that this shape and the content that it carries
are substitutes for something else.
It's an incredibly powerful thing to put a frame on something.
It immediately changes how we see that thing and how we understand it, how we authorize
it or are skeptical of it.
I'd just like us to take a moment to notice that we're constantly bombarded with this.
All of the art is in rectangular frames.
Everything around us is like this.
One of the things that is important to realize about hypnosis is that we have to kind of
ignore that we're being hypnotized in order to proceed with the induction.
When we recognize the power of the shape in our culture and in our experience, we have
a chance to escape the induction.
We have a chance to observe what the content is, where it comes from, what it means, what
it is suggesting or aggrandizing.
We have a shot at not going with the flow.
I think this is really important because the forms of intelligence that are producing
the lion's share of what is presented in the rectangles are not our allies.
These are, in fact, the most disembodied forms of left hemisphere-like propagandism whose
agendas are terrifying, misinformed, delusional, catastrophic, paranoid, extremely aggressive.
They want to own more and more terrain.
They want us to become transports of their message.
They want to recruit us, to induct others into the paradigms that we learn to identify
with through the content delivered via the rectangles.
There's lots of incredibly crucial reasons for us to both resist, question, and transform
the message and what the nature of the content being carried across and through the rectangles
is.
Within our culture, we often have difficulty getting just the basic distance required from
the constant immersion in representation to sense what is being lost within the context
of what is being replaced.
An excellent example of this is just the television.
When we move from nature, where all around us things were moving all the time, the sky,
the sun, animals, plants, trees, always moving, and moving in patterns that our biology evolved
in synchrony with for millions and millions of human lifetimes, hundreds of thousands,
if not millions of years.
When we're taken from that context and put in a box, which is essentially the context
that most of us inhabit these days, it's not too hard to understand why everyone would
gather around the television.
The rectangle or square in the main gathering room where things are moving.
That's the place where things are moving on it.
This is one example of the kind of substitution that we experience without really being aware
of it.
We are used to being in the dynamic, colorful, rhythmic embrace of natural beings and their
movements, and spaces and their movements.
When we're taken out of that and just put in a box, we are hungry for it, and so when
the television comes on, everybody gathers around it and essentially undergoes induction
and ends up in a kind of pseudo-hypnotic trance.
The computer is kind of the next generation of that.
Things don't always move as dynamically on the computer.
In fact, there's much more still representation of still image and text, but this seems to
be the next step, right?
Less movement, more concrete representation, and again, we're neglecting what is being
substituted because we're probably just not aware of it.
When I was a young man, when I was 14, I left human culture entirely, and this is the place
I left from.
This was my launch pad.
I actually went to this place to leave from it, so this isn't exactly the place I was
running away from.
As you can see here, we've got some interesting features.
There's a little bit of sky.
A lot of trees, a big hotel, the Highland Dell Hotel actually in Monterey, and the Russian
River, a body of flowing water.
What happened when I left my urban culture and came here was that I became so intimate
with the flowing water, which I think is a profound metaphor for the nature of consciousness
and also dreaming.
I think that hypnosis is a way of changing the flow, and meditation is a way of changing
the flow, and intimacy is a way of changing the flow of this water of consciousness that
I'm talking about.
But to get back to my point, my encounter with this flowing water so influenced me that
I was unwilling to return to a place where there was no water or there was still water.
One of the things that gets replaced in our culture is the places of gathering, and these
places were generally things like a cave, a tree, or a body of water.
Also food sources, places where there were good food sources we gathered.
But these fundamental places, watersheds, forests, and places where food is abundant,
formed crucial gathering places for us that got substituted inside the boxes we went to
inhabit.
When we are separated from these influences, we lose senses of ourselves and senses of
the world and senses of what we can become.
In effect, we undergo a kind of a relational amputation process that proceeds and whose
goal is really to amputate just everything that can possibly be amputated and turn it
into some kind of representation or something that can be dominated, manipulated, or controlled.
Having of course, we do this even with water.
We dam rivers and we make a big problem for the natural world with how we treat particularly
flowing water like this river here, which is constantly being polluted.
We don't give much thought to the other beings who are our relational intimates for all of
evolutionary history, the animals and plants who depend on this water for their livelihood
directly.
And when I came here and I became intimate with this water, I was unwilling to go back
to the place of rectangle, so I simply ran away.
I left culture altogether.
And when I did that, I began to rediscover what had been being amputated from me and
why I was so frustrated and felt so compelled to rebel and act out in my urban culture.
Now, of course, there were other substitutions going on, which I'll get to in a moment.
Substitutions for developmental phases that I think are crucial both to, well, they're
crucial to all of our life phases, these developmental aspects of ourselves.
But during the teenage years, we are, I think, expecting somehow biologically to, or instinctively,
to be inducted into, to be recruited into a new way of living, a way that allows us
to experience something incredibly profound, which is a state of polyphony, polyphony-like
relation with nature, meaning, and identity.
Now, what we get instead with language is a monophonic prosthesis, which we are kind
of trained to, how shall I put it, to reshape ourselves into the likeness of.
In other words, we become what we interact with.
When we interact with language, which delivers meaning in a monotonal linear fashion, we
lose something that we had as children, which was the inherent experience of polyphonic
meaning and identity.
You can see this in all children, in the playful way that their intelligence and curiosity
works, and they learn much more quickly than adults, much more fluently, fluidly.
And part of it is because they have this very open relationship with identity and meaning
that language tends to shut down as we become more and more language.
Now, what I'm trying to get at is, I think when we reach our teenage years, we are expecting
to be, what is the word, initiated by some group of adults into the sort of mysteries
of the next order or the next level of our learning prowess.
This doesn't happen. There are no such mentors in our culture.
What happens instead is we begin to become, to be prepared for being workers, slaves,
for being effectively manipulable elements of the culture at hand.
And so we rebel, and we try to find other sorts of behaviors that will lead into this
kind of liquid sentience, this deep, intimate learning flow that is our human nature.
And so we look towards things like psychedelic drugs, which can emulate this deep learning
flow, sexual adventurism, behavioral adventurism, extreme ideological concretization, things
like this. It's not to say that none of these have a place in our lives, they do, but when
their place is as a substitute for some of the most critical and profoundly vital and
dynamic aspects of our minds, our emotional selves, and our relational selves, that is
a catastrophe. And that's part of what led me to run away. And when I ran away, I realized
just how significant the effects of the culture were, just how profound these amputations really
were, what they meant, what I was losing, and what I could reacquire by being, by living
on the land itself, with weather, with trees, with the sun, with the moon, with the water.
And that brings me to the next part of my discussion, which is, what is the rectangle
a substitute for? What is the spiral a substitute for? What is the ENSO a substitute for? What
are these objects, these representations, substitutes for? What are they getting in the way of? What
do we see when all of the substitutes disappear? Well, not too surprisingly, one of the first
things we would discover is the sun. All day long, when you're outdoors, away from culture,
if you're living on the land, even when camping, this specific entity becomes the most obvious
and profound sort of relational companion. One is constantly aware of it, which affects
our moods, we rise with the sun, we sleep when it goes down, we become really, what's
the word, synchronized with the solar day. And of course, in our technological cultures,
where we spend a lot of time indoors or looking at mechanical objects such as cell phones
or computers, this relationship is often broken, or at the very least neglected.
Really we can't say enough about the sun. To understand ourselves, we need to continually
deepen our understanding of the sun, because we are effectively, as all life on earth is,
an expression of solar phenomenon. It's not hard to understand the earth itself and all
living things as an actual extension of the sun. Without the sun, there would be no language,
no religion, no hypnosis, no meditation, no consciousness, no mathematics, no science,
nothing. We would have none of the human ideas or structures that we use to evaluate and
understand identity and meaning. So in a very real sense, we are a living extension of this
star, and the stories that science tells us are cruelly incomplete and incredibly monophonic
in terms of identity and meaning. The sun is a big explosion in space that gives birth
to all life. Well, it's actually not much like that. The sun is more than a being. Recognize
we're looking at something here that is the source in a very real sense of all beings.
So a thing that is merely an object does not give birth to beings. There's no object
that you can discover anywhere in human manufacture or on earth that gives birth to beings. This
object in coupling with the earth gives birth to beings. That is not a thing. That is something
more than a being. I'm not claiming that it's a God or a spirit or anything like that. I'm
saying that it's something that we should look very carefully and enthusiastically deeper,
more and more deeply into the nature of, because it is nothing like our models. And in fact,
we don't even have a word in our language to properly express the identity character
of this entity. It's similar with the earth. We think of it as a rock in space. It's nothing
like that. So again, we can see that we've been crippled by the monophonic rendition
of identity and meaning in a world filled whose very nature is polyphonic. Identity
and meaning is fundamentally polyphonic. Language trains us to this monophonic sense of meaning
because it can only carry monophonic meaning in its ordinary functions. Of course, we have
things like poetry and song, which introduce forms of polyphony into language, but we don't
give them much authority in terms of understanding the what-ness or the quiddity of things and
beings and relationships. When we are in deep relation with the sun, we are retrieving some
of our relational fluidity and some of our natural implicit intimacy, which is something
with the world, with ourselves, with nature, with everything that's going on around us.
Now, of course, another thing that the rectangle is replacing is this, the sky. In each day
we get a new sky with a new character, a seasonal character. We see amazing cloud formations
that move and induce in us a kind of a trance-like state, which is a state of enhanced consciousness,
even though it may be somewhat dream-like, rather than a state of inhibited consciousness.
This is the natural result of our immersion in nature. Another thing that we lose when
we're placed in boxes, whether those are our cars or our offices or our homes or what
have you, one really can't say enough about the sky. I mean, it's the ultimate context
and is metaphorically associated, really, with dreaming, with higher intelligence. We
think of the stars as a place where we might find other intelligences more profound than
ours. But the constant movement and character of the sky is a non-verbal, linear dreamscape
that is, again, crucial for us to have constant, direct contact with. By day, the sun is something
of an arbiter of identity. The way that it lights and colors everything around us seems
to inform a sense that we are singular in a world of multiplicity. I am the me, like
the single light by which I see in the day, and all of the other things are extrinsic to
me. I can interact with them or examine or manipulate them. This is kind of the paradigm
of the daytime, but at night, things change. Color becomes shadow, and the single light
by which all people see becomes many lights, the stars, and then the peculiar timekeeping
light of the moon, by which we could easily understand the passage of time through following
the phases. If we were to try to understand it with the sun, we would need to have the
idea of a calendar, but the moon is effectively a calendar of its own, and anyone familiar
or intimate with it would understand that the passage of the phases comprises a form
of calendar that everything in nature is paying some attention to. Another fascinating, and
I think that's the right word here, fascinating feature of the moon, is that it unifies the
eyes of all beings on the night side of the planet. Every being looks toward the moon
and sees it. We don't usually do this with the sun because it's so extremely bright,
but the moon ends up being a kind of summation lens for people and other beings on the night
side of the planet. They all look to it and see it and notice it together. It's an astonishing
unification link or bridge. Of course, it also affects our physiology fairly directly.
Another thing that most of us become unaware of when we have substitutes like the television,
the computer, and our lights. The moon is another thing we lose intimacy with, another
thing that's being substituted for by the culture. Another induction trigger for what
I'm calling this kind of liquid sentience, which is when you see animals accomplishing
extraordinary feats of acrobatics or relation, this is because they are not, they're in
a state of kind of hyper-awareness, sort of the opposite of a trance, really. This
state, I'm calling it liquid sentience, but what I want you to understand is that this
is our natural state. Were we to be removed from our cultures for a significant enough
period of time, we would sort of naturally begin to return to this fluid, profoundly
aware, liquidly intimate learning explosion. I mean, it's a state of constant immersion
in relation and learning. This is the state that psychedelic drugs emulate but don't
really deliver. We can tell they don't deliver it because it's very difficult to bring things
that we think we have learned in these psychedelic states, excuse me, back into our waking consciousness
in a way where they can be meaningfully communicated to other humans. But the state that I'm calling
liquid sentience, this fluid intimacy of learning process or momentum is not like that. It has
some of the features of the psychedelic experience, but instead of just having a sort of relational
sensuality, what we have is a relational and intellectual analog of sensuality which is
actually learning rather than merely sensing. So we're making profound discoveries in cascades
of linkage and awareness. And this process is untasted by most adults. Most adults very
rarely have had any experience of this. But what I want to make clear is that I believe
it's our natural state. And when we are, when the substituting cultural transports are removed
and what they are substituted for is replaced, which are things like our relationship with
the sun, water, food, the sky, the moon, animals, each other, and perhaps dreaming, when these
things are replaced, the amputated aspects of our relational selves immediately come back
to life and begin regrowing and remaking the webs of intimacy and relation which are their
natural environment. Now as I've said a few times, water is a crucially overlooked aspect
of our human environmental necessity. But not just our environmental necessity, our relational
necessity. When you see an image like this and you can imagine the sort of bending, warping,
pulsing shapes of the reflections of light on the water, you see one of the most powerful
natural induction triggers for this learning trance or liquid intimacy that I'm talking
about. Now what happens when we see this and when we're exposed to it over a long period
of time, such as someone who was sitting next to a pool of water, say like a fisherman might,
is that actually a kind of psycho-emotional feedback process begins where there is a pulsing
rhythm to the shifting reflections on the water and these produce both visual feedback
like you can see here, which is reminiscent of the spiral that we saw, but this is a much
more liquid and unformed version of that. But also a physical, physical sensations that
are extremely uncommon where you can feel as though your body is actually pulsing and
that it's pulsing and changing, pulsing and swirling. This particular visual phenomenon
is among the most powerful learning inductions on the planet and is ignored by almost everybody.
Many people engage in it unconsciously, right, they'll go and sit next to the water and kind
of enjoy it, not really realizing why they're enjoying it. But our brains are capable of
entering states that are really uncommon to our normal experience through a process called
photic driving or optic driving and water, particularly water on which a reflection is
shifting in a rhythmic pattern is the most astonishing and accessible induction to this
form of learning trance. So I really want to invite you to take some time and watch
and allow yourself to become deeply immersed in the moving reflections of light on water.
There are few more dramatic leaping off points from ordinary consciousness than this and I
think actually I want to say that it's so profound to have this experience once you've
recognized it, that it really trumps what's available in the great lion's share of psychedelic
experience. When you're sober and you're drawn into this liquid intimacy or liquid sentience,
the learning trance that I'm speaking of as the opposite of what our culture and our
kind of narrative intoxication denies us, you immediately recognize that there's something
going on on Earth that's nothing like any of the stories and that all of our cults
are confused and storyful and that our actual nature, each one of us uniquely and yet completely
encompasses the most astonishing forms of polyphony of identity, meaning, purpose and
potential, nearly all of which are blocked even by those practices and cults that purport
to deliver them back to us. So we have to be really careful of dogma and of course having
these experiences that tend to wipe away the concretizations of consciousness, the static
forms of identity and models that we live by and think with. These are very powerful
catalysts for our learning and growth that we ordinarily are not exposed to and that
are absolutely crucial to our humanity. Now of all of the possible things that induct
us into intimacy and the kind of learning trance, living eyes are perhaps the most profound
and for us, being human, we're very, we're evolutionarily adapted to read the human
gaze and of course the face is really what we think of when we think of people. In fact
this word fascinated seems to imply a relationship with the face. The eyes are a non-verbal communication
transport, very unlike the rectangle as you can see right here. They seem to transmit
a changing flow which is also an invitation that is fraught with meaning that cannot be
monophonic meaning and will not fit in language and cannot be encompassed by it. Now of course
this is true not just of human eyes but also of the eyes of all living beings and even living
beings themselves, our hands, our bodies, the tree, the shapes of nature, call us back to
recognition and intimacy with our evolutionary past and our relational potentials. And this
is of course another endangered sense because as we become more technological we join the
Church of Distance, we no longer need to really know each other, we can be satisfied with
the theatrical representations our technology substitutes for each other in places like
MySpace or Facebook or Twitter or Tumblr etc. And this is at once an outgrowth of human relation
but also again a way of substituting the rectangle, little rectangles of text, little rectangles
of images, little rectangles of video for direct contact. And I think it's better to
have a sense of entrance, to enter into actual relation than to remain in trance to be beguiled
by the theatrics presented across the rectangle. And before I close, I'd just like to introduce
perhaps one more window that invites us into intimacy and a sense of connection between
liquid sentience, the dreaming trance that is our nature to inhabit and of course which
was our natural state as infants. In fact, this was the form of intelligence with which
we acquired language and it is precisely the form of intelligence that language attacked
and largely replaced once it was acquired. And I believe that this is probably where
our imagination went. Believe me, we did not grow out of the incredibly dynamic imagination
that we had as children. Something else happened. Something and I think it's language and enculturation
basically took over the assets that were in use by the imagination, co-opted them and
then denied those assets and continued with the process of amputations that I've discussed
throughout this video. But an immediate return to a childlike dream light state is accomplished
almost any time we simply gaze at the night sky and see the stars where this is possible.
Now, of course, for many of us in our modern cultures, light pollution largely replaces
what we would otherwise see of the starscape. But like the daytime sky, the nighttime sky
is another of the most profound invitations to rediscover our actual relationships and
with the universe, with ourselves, with other living beings and with learning. In the night
when the sun is gone, we become many minds like the many lights of the sky as we dream
and our sentience and creativity and imagination are liquidly interacting. We are no longer
trapped in the peculiar, monotonal world of identity and meaning that our waking lives
often constrict us into. And so the starry sky is another of the most profound invitations
to recognition and remembrance that nature provides and that our culture would rather
give us substitutes for. But hopefully after thinking about all these matters, we may find
ourselves equipped to not only resist the rectangle, but to use it against some of the
forces that deploy it as a substitute for our human intimacy, our incredibly prodigious
learning capacities that are often hidden and co-opted by our cultural agendas, and
that we can begin to retrieve these within for each other in our world and use them to
protect the natural windows, the water, the animals, the forest, each other, the air,
the sky and our dreams.
