Whenever I'm standing at the brink of some kind of a gap, I have feelings,
senses. Some kinds of brink are familiar. Some kinds of gaps are familiar and feel
comfortable to enter or bridge some kind stone. When I begin to try to record
something, it's as if I'm standing on a precipice going to leap off, so I feel
fear. I feel fear in various ways, even when I'm doing something very familiar
sometimes. I feel a little bit of fear when I approach a musical instrument. I feel
fear if I'm about to present any kind of performative action or result. There's
some kind of background of fear. And I wasn't always quite so fearful. When
younger, prior to my confusing encounters with language and culture, I was a
little more intrepid. But when I approach some kind of a gap where I'm going to
transform, and perhaps my context will transform, and I may not be able to
predict or control the nature or scope or forms of those changes. I may feel fear
and many other feelings as well. Excitement, interest, wonder, hope, joy. But there's a
special kind of fear that I feel when I begin to see something I've sought in
waking life, but for most of my life rarely encountered insight. When I have
the experience of insight, which is an experience of reflection, I often feel a
kind of fear. And part of it is that I know I may speak about or write about
what I'm seeing. But there are a lot of peculiar features of this fear, and I
think they might be more important than they may superficially seem. Sometimes in
conversation, where the parties are deeply engaged and seeking to learn
something rather than just declare positions, we feel kind of similar fear.
And we may identify with our ideas or perspectives or opinions so dramatically
that any questioning of them seems an assault on the self or possibly. I've
seen people respond as though it could be the same as death, when really we're
just questioning an idea or a statement. So there's something strange going on
while we're awake. We become profoundly identified with perspectives and
structured constructs of self and other situation in history, meaning and value,
someone who I am, identity. And in order to understand the fear I'm talking about,
I want to talk about a relationship between dreaming and being awake. And this
is where I feel particularly nervous. Because from the position that I can see
from, it looks like dreaming has primacy, and what it means is not like what we
imagine. So that the self that we have while we're awake, the structured,
identified me person, is actually something that dreaming conserves over the
interval between, conserves and informs over the interval between our what we
call sleeping. So it's as if at the brink of the transformation from dreaming to
waking, a kind of a construct gets assembled. And we identify with this
construct, very deeply and particularly with its name, history, the stories it has
conserved with what it has conserved, what it acts to conserve, what it is the
body of conservation of. And the strange thing about that self that is really
scary. And I feel even now as though I'm not supposed to talk about these things
in this way as a waking self in the waking world. But the strange thing that's
really frightening is that that self doesn't exist in that way at all. It is a
construct and it's based on pivots. It's kind of resting on unseen pivots or
anchors that are standing on something much more like dreaming. So that somehow
the changing transformation within our dreaming is much more true to who
and perhaps even what we are, which in dreaming is ways of seeing and relating
and sensing in an as, hmm, in an as what, in an as what. But in waking life we have
physical reality. And that's why we're supposed to conserve a construct by the
way. Apparently to help us survive physical reality. But then there are layers
and strata of fictional linguistic, cultural, traditional opinion, writing,
law, so on frameworks. In fact, we live in frameworks and cities. We drive little
frames around. We read things from frames. We hold frames in our hands. We're all
really well and multiply framed while awake. And all those frames often conflict
with ourself, which is a changing way of learning relation in a strange kind of
unity. So in dreaming, we have this experience that we call lucidity. And the
experience can mean astonishingly different things in every person or
moment doesn't just mean one thing. It is a transformation of the processes that
ordinarily continuously structure and intelligently articulate whatever
dreaming is, which over here on the waking side, we must presume we're going to
have great difficulty capturing in ordinary language or concepts. In fact, we
can't since they sort of have their birth there. But if we imagine dreaming as a
kind of a changing, membranous, bubble like fair, that is, how should we put it,
self conserving so that it's reinforcing itself from all positions in its history
and periphery with the mind and consciousness inside its own active
reorientation as that active reorientation. Or perhaps as a figure, what we
remember anyways is a figure of that process. That's important to say. We
cannot remember that process or we would begin dreaming. And we conserved in a
figure or figures of it that are constructed usually shortly during
the transition from dreaming across some kind of a gap into waking. So what
happens is if we can, if an aspect of our waking self-construct begins to
enter that self-creating dreaming bubble, ordinarily what happens is some kind of
a branching event. And the event has different kinds of outcomes. So there's
one I want to focus on first though. Sometimes in a dream we may have the
intuition or the sudden awareness, seeming partial awareness, that the
sequence of things is not clear. What happened before what, how I got here,
what series of events led to this one. This kind of question often gets handled
in the dream by the dreaming way. In a number of different fashions,
essentially the most common one is a strange kind of backfilling where the
dream, the dreaming self sort of quickly assembles a satisfactory, satisfactory
explanation, quote-unquote, it's not really an explanation, but essentially just
erases the pivots that the question rose from in consciousness or gently dissolves
those pivots. So it's not a real explanation or even a sequence, it's
kind of a flow game. And when that happens one just continues dreaming and is
unaware that the problem wasn't resolved, essentially it was just
dissolved. However if that initial transformation doesn't happen or
doesn't succeed, then we're faced with further branchings. One can, some of
these branchings can lead to waking up. One may recognize, hmm this is a very
strange situation and that specific recognition becomes awakening. We then
try to reconstruct the dream and so on if we should be so inclined or compelled.
But the other kind, another branch is the one that leads to lucidity. So in this
branch there's the partial and constant re-inclusion of aspects of the waking
like intelligence that are gentle enough to not just crack the bubble and force
it to break. And so then really astonishing experiential phenomenon occur
in the dream. And some of these, because they are unusually novel, they have a
quality of incredible newness to our experience can be quite frightening. And
this is part of why there are many subcultures that orient themselves
toward lucid dreaming. But what I want to talk about in terms of the fear is what
would happen if we could experience the complementary corollary of those
processes while awake so that the dreaming mind could intelligently
intervene where we've established structures of sequence or identity that
are fictional and take us right to their pivots just as it would erase those
pivots in our dreaming experience when the waking mind enters. If you go
right to the pivots of certain fictions and begin dissolving them, now our
waking self does not know what to do during such an experience. And it can be
an incredible threat. And yet there are examples of it that are familiar to us
and not too frightening. One of the examples is comedians. Very talented
comedians play with and around the pivots on which various fictions in our
common thought, self-identification, other identification, culture. They toy
with the basis of these pivots and transform them playfully before the
sort of otherwise easily frightened and judgmental eye of our waking mind. And
we mostly really love this feeling and experience. It's a feeling of
sudden liberation. We dissolve into laughter and the basic flow of what it's
like to be awake changes very dramatically during such an experience,
especially if it's made continuous so that we're laughing and then laughing
more and so on over over some interval as if perhaps we're having some kind of
dream. But the fear I feel when I begin to see the in this way, which is the way
a comedian might see, or possibly a sage or a poet, or perhaps an incredibly
witty critic or playwright, we must imagine that many great women and men
throughout history have had this experience of this fear and have written
about it. I've heard many figures of a bird beating itself almost to death
against walls of living fire and intelligence. Or that if the angel we
sought were to appear before within us, our heart would beat itself to rags. I
was seeking the actual quotes this morning, but I wasn't able to locate the
ones I wanted quickly. So I have emulated them for you. So what if while we were
awake, we could begin the corollary process that becomes lucidity in dreaming?
What would that mean? What would that be like? It's, it can be very frightening
for a number of reasons, the most significant of which is that any such
activity threatens the pivots on which our waking understanding of who we are,
our thinking about who we are, our history and identity are founded. So that
experience is intuited as our waking self, by our waking self, our waking sort of
thinking mind as something like death. It feels about that the same way that the
dreaming self feels when faced with death in a dream. In that, the dreaming
self knows this won't destroy it. It knows it dies in its reborn all the time. The
waking self doesn't realize that it also undergoes this when we go to sleep and
dreaming comes. So the waking self has a kind of non-physical death fear of
anything that begins to reorient the fictional pivots on which it depends,
it thinks, for its correct and proper conservation. This was not always the way.
When we were children, the process was reversed. The dreaming self so consistently
erased the pivots of a fictional self that what a self was was extremely
malleable and based much more in dreaming and relation, discovery and wonder,
excitement and development than in any kind of conservation of a particular
self or role except in very specific pivots such as mother, father, home and so on.
So the fear that I feel is actually that I'm not supposed to be seeing these things.
It's a fear like no one's supposed to see that. You can't see that. You certainly better not
say anything like that. And these are just making up words, but this is the kind of the fear and also
what would happen if we established lucid waking rather than just came near, grabbed some jewels
near the pivots and came back and translated them, spoke of them, made comedy of them,
made parables of them, made artifacts. So what would happen if instead
we followed that process into the dissolution further rather than stopping to recognize
profound reorientations? What if we suddenly began to become actively reorienting as the
pivots of the fictional self were intelligently dissolved and transformed? We would become a way
of seeing. And the self that I know as Darren is actually going away when I'm doing that in a
very peculiar way, not a way that is self evacuating, but a way that disappears into kind of travel.
And if that process were to go very far, I know from experience, I would become unable
to consistently conserve my waking mind, which would mean I would have to go lie down and go to
sleep often, sometimes very rapidly, meaning immediately. So that it seems clear that if
we were to establish an ongoing lucid waking state, it would quickly contradict the ordinary
expected activities and needs of the fictional self. It might even require that the body be
in a state of rest or stillness, relative stillness, rather than activity. We can imagine that if it
were to suddenly happen, if the dreaming self were to suddenly invade consciousness, even very
intelligently, that individual might just pass out. Because the pivots of the waking fictional
self and thought and so on have rapidly dissolved toward their origins. So what's really interesting
is that certain kinds of questions while awake, followed beyond one's ordinary,
beyond the ordinary superficial relationship, lead toward the pivots of these fictions.
And when I am in a mood that is reflective, and I want to go and see this way, this way of traveling,
that is frightening, that is new ways of seeing for me, there is always this feeling near success of
fear. And it means that the question, and as I am now able to follow it, has penetrated a fiction
that my waking mind is based on, and my waking mind is noticing that and it begins to react.
And it's funny because it wants to go, but there's a conflict, it wants to fly,
my waking mind wants to fly and see in the new way, and perhaps learn to speak even in new ways,
and think in new ways. But it's really balking, because it kind of secretly knows
we don't play with those things while awake. Those things, those pivots on which
our knowledge, and expectation, prediction, recollection, and thought, or conception, how we
conceive of things. The waking mind identifies those pivots as not only itself, but it's kind of its
feet on the ground of reality. So it is afraid that if any of those are questioned, or transformed,
or transformed even intelligently, that at least during that process, in that gap,
it will not be stable. And stability is its sort of standing fictional greatest feature.
So for the waking identity, even me, Darren, these experiences are fraught with a lot of
conflicted emotions. Ordinarily, my waking self prefers to just walk on the feet that it's
established. It doesn't really want to make a new foot or dissolve one that it has long been based on,
sort of. So anytime my questioning and travel and my reflection comes near one of those pivots,
my waking self becomes reactive, and I learn to follow that all the way to the place where
I get the fear, and then I begin to see something. And in this case, this morning,
I was thinking about the difference between someone who lives in nature,
in and as those relationships, perhaps, in a tent or teepee,
and a group of people living that way and only that way. And those of us who live in culture,
and I realized that there was something very peculiar about what the word interests means.
So that the living people would not really have interests in the way we use this word. We who
live in frameworks, they would have relationships and skills and vocations and arts and many other
things, but not so much interests. Our interests are sort of those of the fictional waking self
within frameworks, largely. And yet they are, for some of us,
ways to bring some of dreaming back into our waking experience safely enough for the waking self
to get along with the process. What's really interesting for me is there's a kind of a compass,
right? I can see where, as I reflect and think through many fields of related concern and
research and endeavor, development and learning that are my inward university,
as I follow paths in there reflectively, I come across little clues, almost like some kind of a
dream detective that show me pivots on which my own fictions of self and accomplishment,
judgment, analysis, evaluation, and identity are ordinarily founded. And it begins with some kind
of a small, clue-like noticing and rapidly expands toward insight and that feeling,
there I am at the brink. And as I begin to sense that, my heart, it's not, I don't know what it is,
I don't know if it's, you know, I don't explain it away as adrenaline, but certainly my metabolism
undergoes a radical, immediate shift, a kind of acceleration. And in time, perhaps,
and certainly on some occasions I feel less of that and more sudden travel.
And accompanying that is this feeling of no one's supposed to be able to see that. You shouldn't,
I don't know who's talking to me, some kind of a critic, right? Some kind of a, you know,
overseer. No one's supposed to see that, that way, not while you're awake. That would question
everything. If you saw that way, there's, here's the sense, it's a sense that for the waking self to
see that way would transform every framework it had ever touched and concerned, irrevocably.
That's the fear. If I see that what I thought of as my interests are kind of a replacement
for something deeper, that would throw into question the entire history of my pursuit of
quote, interests, unquote, or it might. So yeah, that's, that's part of the problem right there,
that's part of the basis of the conflict. Change any of these pivots, it's going to reorient
any view on history or memory and its meaning, evaluations, and so on that we've conserved,
especially of ourselves. That's a dangerous moment. It's also a moment of incredible opportunity,
one of my favorite kinds of opportunity. The opportunity to reestablish something like
active, creative, intelligent, human reorientation in and as a waking self capable of
admitting its own formative processes and origins, futures, and truest intelligence.
This is what many of us really fear, active reorientation, and there's a common for most
of us experience that's ironic in this sense. If we want to have an experience of a similar kind
of fear, all we have to do is admit an unpredictable animal or organism to a framework.
A mouse, a spider, a snake, a bat, a bird in the house, something like this.
And suddenly we will be faced with an image of our own true nature and how disorienting
frameworks themselves are for living things. But many people, as we all know, will practically
go into shock if some kind of an organism that is unpredictable suddenly or unexpectedly enters
their waking reference frames. And this is much like the waking self's experience of its own
dreaming identity. It's that frightening and it's that kind of fear. It's the fear of the total
collapse of all structures of conserved identity and control, prediction, historical evaluation,
and what has brought all of this entire complex person to a screeching halt and now into some
kind of shock-like reactivity in many cases, is simply that there's a living thing somewhere,
nearby, maybe. We don't know what it will do.
Could it not be that we are such living things and that living things generally act intelligently
when other living things relate with them, but since humans don't do that, we're afraid of the
results, I think that's part of what's going on. If you watch people reacting to living things,
it's almost as if suddenly they don't know who to be. They don't know who they are. They're not
sure who they've been. Everything they ever depended on and felt to be reliable has suddenly
disappeared into irrecoverable agitation and there's no single reason for that yet it's very
clear that this is ironic. We are all animals. We've all evolved together. We're all creatures.
Creatures don't randomly assault other things except humans or if they're sick.
When they're hunting and being organisms, they don't just go around attacking things.
If they did, they would die very quickly. It's interesting that the people who react
tend to fall into two camps. The first is that they are terrified that they might be injured
themselves. Someone that they care for could be hurt by an ant or a fly,
you know, or a spider, but still. Or the kind of opposite version of that is they are terrified
they might hurt it or it might get hurt, but rather than being intelligently concerned, they're
kind of in helpless shock. So obviously many of us respond with great interest and wonder
at the imposition of the living thing in our framework or interest or, you know, relation,
direct relation. And some of us keep pets and such like this which are not exactly the same.
I think what I want to get at, however, is that everyone, if suddenly faced unexpectedly
with a bear or a wolverine or a badger or a rattlesnake or cobra or possibly a swarm of hornets
would have a significant visceral respect and profound awareness of the incredible,
almost dreamlike, almost supernatural sense of the being of this creature. Perhaps because we know
that it is not subject to our whims and we cannot necessarily control it, which often for,
unfortunately, for life on earth ends up with it being killed. Because when people feel that
threat of not being able to control it, particularly men who have guns and don't have any idea what
living things are, that threat goes down now. You can hear the song and cheer of this throughout
modern human history. This is part of what wiped out most of the wildlife that once existed on
our continent and all of the ecologies that those more significant animals to us emerged from and
served and surrounded and developed together. Those ecologies were, of course, our own lives
and futures, minds and intelligence. So something in the frameworks attacking everything that's
unpredictable, it's obvious and constant. And the more disembodied or fictional the framework,
the more vicious and profound, provocative and consistent the attacks.
And so our human spirit, our agent intellect, our living soul, is quite aware of all this
and it does not. It knows that while we're awake, the framework is
powerfully and momentously dominated and corrupted, conflicted, repurposed.
So it's, it may, how should we put it, it may silently inform but rarely speak.
And when, and if we were to begin to see with its own way of seeing, we would feel
excitement and wonder but also fear and confusion. And this is a good sign if it is this kind,
it is this species. It means we are nearing the pivot that our fictional frameworks and
identities, histories, memories, courtroom dramas and so on, all rest on. And if we can
transform even one of those, we'll get like a real leg on intelligence where we only had,
who knows what, some kind of construct leg. And that is like coming back to life. That is
like being reborn. That is reincarnation here now in this moment, in this day, in this hour.
That is what we crudely refer to as awakening. But the emphasis is really on the, the active
aspect of this. It's a flowing, ongoing continuum that we enter and become as we dissolve from
an identified structure itself into intelligent relation, seeing, recognition,
remembrance, learning, discovery and humanity.
Some time ago I stood on a precipice in front of all that has now traversed, all I've now traversed
and I still feel the fear I felt when I started.
I can see the movement in the garden, in the sky,
in that fear.
The part that is afraid is changing into something that moves.
And the spirit of that movement is one I trust. It is this spirit
that I know to be the fingerprint of lucid waking.
And without being able to say much about exactly what that is,
I know it as the intelligent and reflective transformation of anchors and traps
that involves the intelligence that informs my dreams and dreaming while I'm awake.
In a way of seeing,
it is a way of learning and discovery beyond anything I'd ever imagined possible.
I live for life on earth and all of its history and promise, but in my waking situation I
am fascinated with the possibilities of what lucid waking might become
and somehow
through blessing or crisis, tragedy, luck or happy accident,
I'm beginning to see in a new way what this word dreaming means for me
and something of what it probably meant for our ancestors and original peoples
who live before the onset of cities and frameworks.
And what they meant was not what it is that we do at night.
No, they meant something far more provocative and profound.
They meant something we become together with and for each other
and the history of life on earth and its future while we are awake and in
and this becoming resists all fiction
and will not sustain it by its nature.
But is its resolution and transformation?
And I'm excited to be able to see and speak about such things together.
I hope we will learn to see and discover what lucid waking,
which turns out to be a form of dreaming like intelligence might look like and become,
especially in small skillful groups
who can create a context and sustain one in which such exploration and development
is celebrated and encouraged, nurtured and sustained.
I hope we shall have the chance to see and become the answers
to such questions together and I'm grateful for the opportunity to share and consider them with you.
