Hi. Thanks for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson. Today is Sunday, January 5th, 2014, 626 a.m.
For many years now I've been interested in a variety of riddles that have to do with specific aspects of creation stories, particularly things happening with snakes.
Since I've had an unusual relationship with snakes since I was a very small child and when I say unusual, I mean it.
I mean snakes following me around, making friends with snakes, and also not just snakes but
every living thing, frankly, and specifically the living things that people most don't like.
So stuff like snakes or lizards or black widow spiders or tarantulas or scorpions, all of these things, little beetles and things, I'm madly in love with them since I was a child.
So because there's a snake in the tree and because I'm so fascinated with snakes and they actually do have the power to entrance you, the way that they move and their whole way of being is absolutely entrancing.
And in case you don't recognize the clear signals in that word, that word is entrance-ing, which is exactly what a penis does.
It entrances-ings and it makes re-entrance-ings and what a mother does is she re-receives.
She receives and then re-receives what she received and then re-receives that.
We have this idea that you give something once and it's given and it's done. It's never been that way.
We have the same idea with the word. You say a word, it's over. It's never been that way.
What actually happens is that across gaps, wave seeds are transmitted and a wave seed is like a parcel of compressed sort of energy, communications energy.
We understand all this in physics, it's not religion.
It's not even philosophy. A wave seed is basically a gift that keeps giving because there it is. It's on your desk. It's still giving.
You're still changing. Every time you see it, you're changed. Every time you touch a memory of it, you're changed.
So all of what we exchange are actually highly compressed wave seeds and they expand over time sort of like a flower and they instruct in constellations our memory and our intelligence and things like this.
This all has to do with snakes because they are entrancing.
So when we look in each other's eyes and we weave a little bit and we make moves that create a sort of a waving that is complex in space, which actually is what music is.
If we create tonal orientations with our voice and we can guide with the hands and the voice at the same time, then we have an entrancing charismatic personality.
We may become a politician, a hypnotist, a rock star, an author, a speaker, a coach, a psychic, something.
But that's not what's interesting. What's interesting is never mind all of the representations. What's this all about?
This transmission of force, this reception, these ideas and what happened in Genesis?
What happened at the tree where we appeared to lose everything and were cast out of Eden?
Apparently because of something Eve did, or it looks that way to us, we're pretty confused about all of that by the way.
Because we've got the stories badly wrong and they're very powerful riddles that exist through all human cultures, all of them.
They have similar stories. Not everyone has the same story, but they have stories that fit together in interesting ways where each unique piece forms something like this.
So when you get this or this and it's running around telling you that it's God, it's lying because this leads to this, right?
Which leads to this, which leads to this, which leads to that, which, let's face it, that leads.
So that leads not this. This is a little piece of something that's hiding its connection to everything else if it's claiming to be God.
That's true whether it's me or a religious speaker or an idea or a word, a label, anything.
This is just an over amplified problem, right? This is a snake.
Whereas this is a shepherd or a star or a pot of beings, a family.
This is how reality really is. This is a kind of alignment to scare and try to dominate and bite us from above.
These are the two modes. Now, both the modes are good. In fact, both of them are given birth to by Eve.
Cain is this. And Abel is this. Now, weirdly in the Genesis story, Cain kills Abel.
And then lies about it to God. It's a big problem. It goes on to rule the world.
He rules our world and he thinks he's God, but he's not. He's this.
And for him to be fulfilled and for us to be fulfilled, we have to be like this.
He has to be returned to his rightful purpose. The reason you don't point this finger at people.
You should never point at people in Indian traditions is this is Cain's face and they know it.
So they don't point with that. They might point not in the direction, but they'll say like with their thumb.
This is a different face. This is the face of the sun.
And they don't even point directly with that all that. They sort of motion with it towards something.
With these fingers down so they're not piercing or cutting each other or the ideas.
You may think this is superstition. Boy, you're even mistaken. This is like relational physics.
So let me show you their story, which is very different.
And there's two different pieces I had to fit together because there's a Navajo branch of the male shooting chant.
And there's a Blackfoot story that my beloved friend Ryan Heavyhead was kind enough and trusting enough
to endow me with little features of that would be enough to help me along.
And that was more than probably he felt safe doing, but thank goodness he did.
Because I was able to link these two, these three stories, right?
And now see what they all talk about. And what they talk about is really surprising.
They talk about our own brains, but they also talk about two forces that sort of dominate in our world.
And one of them is very feminine and receptive and it's changing mist based.
It's like changing mists. And I put it over here because it's this side of the body, this side of the brain.
The right hemisphere is the changing, it's sort of the avatar of the changing mist child.
He can become anything. He has no sex, no identity.
He is a changing swarm of minds that flow over information and billions of passes in a picosecond.
His knowledge is unthinkably deep. Billions of minds deep.
This is the basis of hypnosis is moving this mind into new structures.
The other mind, the left hemisphere, which controls the right side of our body.
The one we point with, we point stuff out, we divide with this one.
This is a structural intelligence. It's the divider.
It's actually the intelligence in division.
Now, if this one is guided by both the unity and the mother mist child, this one is excellent.
He is a co-empeditor. He is a co-mother petitioner.
Together they petition the mother, the mothers of all beings at once.
And then with those decisions, they act, not with their own ideas of what those decisions are.
Not with laws, not with guidance, not with things written in stone.
We petition the mothers. We co-empedition.
That means to make ourselves small, petite eye on, get small.
Our eyes are on, but we become smaller.
We erase the throne so the mothers can fill it.
Now we have excellence, which is to exit the cell together.
We lens and exit the cell. We lens all of this.
We exit jail into excellence together. This is the whole idea.
Now when the two brothers act together, in the daytime it's like this, with Slayer on top and Little Water of the Moon down here.
By the way, Slayer is the child of the sun. Little Water of the Moon is the child of the moon.
The moon is actually the mother in this story, not the earth.
The earth is where everything happens.
But the moon is White Shell Woman. She's the shining little face of space-time, which is barren.
It's not just virginal. It's barren, so it can't ever be penetrated and lose.
It has nothing to lose out of her barrenness, out of her space, out of her intelligent spaciousness, which is pure undifferentiated potential.
That gets penetrated and differentiated by lightning and becomes a child, or children, or whole worlds of children like us.
So the moon was orbiting the earth, and she and the sun were in love in this story, in the Native American stories.
Now they were doing something with this love affair. The sun is going through space, and the earth is circling him as he's going through space.
So he's leading her through space like this.
And around her there's a second little orbital.
So there's this weird meta-pattern going. It's like a symphony, actually. The symphony of the spheres going in patterns that are like spirographs around the sun,
following Sol and Victus, victorious through space. Here's what he's doing. He's actually killing monsters, and that's the weird thing.
Why did we need a slayer of alien gods? Well, because we had monsters, and what were they?
They are our own thoughts. They are the electromagnetic pull and warp of the weave of space, which in our order is relation.
It's human relation, animal relation, natural relation, ecological relation, metaphoric relation, conceptual relation, mathematical relation, hypothetical relation, evaluative relation.
We've got this poi game spinning all the time, much like our sun, as it's going through space with all these spirals.
And this poi, we're spinning poi, right? Like we've got little discs that are going in arcs all around us.
They're spiraling and doing all kinds of strange, dimensional, relational things, because there's many dimensions that are invisible of relation,
not necessarily of space or time, but of relation.
There's a lot of information in a short period of time, but what I want to show you is Sol, Sol and Victus, our victorious sun,
whose face goes forward through space, who you'll never see the face of, because you'd be destroyed.
You can't be in front of the sun, either nor can you be in front of space time, right?
How will you know, wherever space time is going, if it's moving or traveling or expanding, how will you get in front of it?
You're not old enough. It's four point, you know, 14.x billions of years, flat years old. How old are you?
You gonna get in front of that? Same thing with the sun. How old is that? You gonna get in front of it?
While it's traveling through space, it's going like this, right? It's traveling through space.
Are you gonna stand somehow, race in front of the sun and stand and look back at it like that?
That's what's in the Bible is saying, that's why you see the backside of God. You only see the backside always,
because the front side is in battle with snakes. And what is it doing?
It's bending them into rings that are orbitals that capture resources and jewels and living being souls
and build a world as one of those spiraling jewels, our world, our minds, spiraling in that jewel through space,
following a victorious, glorious Richard the Lionhearted kind of leader.
And all of this is encoded in these, these people knew all of this a long, long, long, long time ago.
And the reason they knew it was not because there was any kind of writing.
They talked to the sun.
They talked, let me just say that again.
No, they didn't talk. They listened to the sun.
They listened to the water. They listened to the sky. They listened to the animal relationships.
And thus they learned themselves therein.
We do the opposite. We tell the sun what it is and to be in do.
We tell the earth and the water and the animals what they are to be in do, which is nothing of value.
It's disposable. That destroys our minds.
It's not religious. It has nothing to do with any kind of fantasy stories.
Everything that I've said is physically true and make up any story you want about it.
I don't care if it's religious, scientific, philosophical, comments, you know, folks tales.
An author makes up a fiction. A child has a dream. I don't care what the representation is.
Just please look at the basis of the story, okay?
Because we have these two brothers in us and one of them is slaughtering the other one.
They're pretending that it doesn't exist and it's gone.
Everywhere around us, in science, in religion, in the internet, in information, even in authors.
I mean, in little children's dreams, in technology machines that own us.
It's all dividing us and not intelligently.
It's dividing us as the snake separated from the intelligence that guides it, right?
That's not good. That's very, very deadly. Slayer will slay everything and then just claim he didn't
and then blame the people he slayed. It was their fault.
You got a problem? It was your fault. I killed you. It was your fault.
You were standing in the road. I ran you over. But, you know, I had the right to drive.
You didn't have the right to live. I had the right to drive, okay? You don't have the right to exist.
But I have the right to drive. My car, right over you.
Because you were in the place where I have the right to drive, so your existence is meaningless.
See, it's that kind of knowledge that's running all of our cultures right now.
And it builds systems of itself that make false humans.
They're called employees, which are actually just slaves.
So on the one side you've got like a snake master like Pharaoh who builds false, false ideas of unity
with false people who have jobs. They have roles that aren't real.
And then over here you have shepherds who help actual people build real pods where meaning is true
and based on unity, the history of life on earth, intelligence and relationships.
This is based on hypotheses of power and wealth and success. This is based on our hearts, our actual intelligence,
what we see, feel, hear and know as living beings here on earth.
So we want this one, not the religious authorities, to tell us what that's supposed to look like.
Those are just the same as these guys over here, false rulers on both sides.
You can forget every religion altogether. You know D, Danny.
If you want to succeed in heaven, understand what being alive is about. It's that simple.
If you thought there was any other idea about that, you were confused.
Because somewhere on earth there might be an island where there are no books
and the people there would have to learn everything that was true to be quote unquote saved from nothing.
Hi, that's what I did. I went back before your books and I looked at what they were talking about
and they're nothing like what your religions are on about.
The stories all have pieces in them that are very important to understand.
All the religions, and I do mean all of them, have misinterpreted them wildly
and if they hadn't we would be living intelligently.
Same thing with science.
Science failed to deliver its miracle and delivered atrocity instead.
Every single organism on earth is poisoned with industrial chemistry, chemistry now.
There have been 2,200 nuclear explosions. We've had a nuclear war and no one's even admitted it.
Science has failed.
Politics failed, did not work, ripping our planets apart.
Religion failed to establish any kind of intelligent culture.
Spiritual gurus, Ekratoli, Deepak Chopra, failed.
The New Age, failed.
The Mechanical Revolution, failed.
Our ways of knowing are broken.
They're broken because we don't understand what the sun is.
We have no idea what a living being is.
We have millions of swarming cults of false authorities underneath us.
All trying to convert us to their mouthpiece and their contagious reproductive organs.
Politics, philosophers with New Age, gurus, on and on and on and on, artists, everything.
No, I am no one.
I'm trying to convert you to anything, right?
If we need to accomplish something, it is that we need new perspectives
that are intelligent enough to lead beyond themselves.
And if I in any way help you, I'm going to lead you way beyond me really fast
just so that you won't need me and you won't need the book of me
and you won't have to buy any idea.
None.
You won't have to convert others to ideas that aren't true or real or anything.
There will be no messing around with any of that kind of stuff. None.
No cults, no dogma, no leaders, no books, no sales, nothing.
Just us learning together.
I work for you. That's it. What do I do? I work for you.
I'm a free employee of you, except I'm not an employee.
I am a detective. I'm a scout.
I'm an intelligence whisperer. I try to find that stuff and put it back together
because it's all been shattered and broken.
And those broken forces are dangerous. They're like broken glass.
Our cultures and our children are walking around them.
They're going to be sliced apart. And I think it's glorious.
As the blood gushes, they make photographs of it in new styles of being tortured.
No more of that.
The planet won't survive us. There's seven billion of us now.
We need to understand these old stories, what the sun is doing.
And what it's doing is it's actually, it's unthinkably beautiful what's going on.
And if we understand the old stories, we can solve our problems with them
because they contain non-human intelligence.
Intelligence is older than human intelligence by far.
I'm not sure what kind it is, but if one thing we can be absolutely sure of
is that our intelligence is floating in a sea of intelligence.
And above that, there's another sea of intelligence.
And we don't have to have science or denials or atheism or religion about it.
No, we can just touch it together and learn.
Like I'm doing here, like we're doing here right now.
Can enable a tree story?
That's the secret to everything.
And the people who wrote those stories, those old stories,
they were warrior peoples, but they were also messianic peoples.
They were warrior messianic peoples.
And so when they wrote these stories for their children and their grandchildren
and their grandchildren's grandchildren, they didn't just write them to say,
we're sorry there was a great catastrophe, it's over now, you're cursed.
Whoever had that idea was really either dangerous,
in other words, they wanted to crush everyone else by keeping a secret about it.
That's a possibility.
Or they were insane because that's dead wrong.
There's nothing like a curse.
What there is is snakes unmastered and mastered snakes which become orbitals.
These are archangels. This is what the sun has done.
It's going through space.
It's fighting those charges of frustration and anxiety and concern and worry
and it's turning them into orbitals that follow it through space and spiraling patterns.
This is what a man does. This is what a woman does.
This is what we're all about.
The woman has a role in this which is not as easy to discuss with speech
because her role is the silence that draws all this into happening.
It's not as easy to represent it.
This is one of the reasons why the woman's power is sort of quiet in our world
but it's the underlying power of everything now.
Because the snakes are in space, they're in her.
He's mastering her snakes and turning them into structured beauty and glorious intelligence.
These are seen as torques or rings.
You've got the snake in one hand which is the rod and the ring in the other which is the mastered snake
of the electromagnetic waves which also represent the intelligence of space itself.
Structuring that space intelligently by doing beautiful things within it together.
And then the incredible evolutionary, revolutionary benefit
which explodes into a million fold abundance of interest every time it goes around one time.
But zoom and then that gets magnified and then 10 times that much and then 50 times that much
unless the snakes eat all that up.
Because they'll actually burn all that down to get 2% of a structure they can use against everything
to be a god over it.
And by snakes we mean really just people are convinced that they're an individual
or that their group is right and good without any kind of petitioning.
They don't care about what the people think.
They don't care about what the sky thinks or the history of life on earth thinks or anything.
We're the right one. We know what's good for everybody. We're going to tell you.
That's a snake.
A torque or a ring, a pod is like a pod of dolphins.
Going through time and space together.
Spinning around each other and jumping through the air and dancing.
They're dancing. They're in a symphony of co-being.
That's intelligence.
And this can't make that.
This slayer by himself is just an ignorant sword that gets angry when his power is threatened.
It's like a false hard-on or bad wood.
And then you got robin which is from sure wood.
Wood you can trust because it's the consensus of all beings in all of time.
All mothers, all children, all animals, all insects, all living places, all living worlds.
That's co-em petition.
Which is not war and not prosecution.
These two stories are interesting. Since I'm learning all this so rapidly, I can barely contain myself.
I just mainly wanted to kind of record this for my own purposes.
I hope you may find some interest or joy from it.
Some intelligence, some signals toward intelligence here.
If you do, feel free to come by my Facebook channel or my Facebook page which is Darren Stevenson.
I'm in San Francisco. You can find me on Facebook there.
I'm also at wondercloud.wordpress.com.
And I've got a page on Medium but you'll get around to that if you want.
Thank you for joining me.
We learn together. When you learn, I learn.
So, like I said, I work for you.
See you soon. Bye-bye for now.
Cain and Abel.
Kana and Hevel.
Puff of vapor.
That's the water child.
And by the way, I'm a water child.
There's a water child who will often give birth, actually, to a slayer child, to the fire child.
Just as the mother does.
And men and women who have both natures in them, both gender natures, these are puff of vapor children.
These are the tricksters slash genius children, actually.
You want to be really careful about judging them.
Real careful.
Especially the women who act masculine because they will turn right into swords, definitely.
And they will have no compunction about cutting.
None.
So, understand this.
Women's intelligence is delicate.
So is the men's.
And the people who have both genders, we should be respectful of that.
That's half of our own bodies, right?
Only one side is strongly gendered of us.
Women are much more sort of relaxed about this and men are very concerned.
Be careful.
Be gentle with each other because we all have both natures in us.
We have a one gendered nature and a dual gendered nature, both in all of us.
So let's not go around yelling at names and saying who is entitled to what and who is not.
We're all entitled to respect, admiration, mutuality, intelligence, and care.
That's beyond all religion, beyond all philosophy.
That's humans in nature together with each other.
Let's be more of that.
Bye-bye for now.
