Hello everybody, welcome.
In a rare inversion of my common habit, I'm making a recording in the light of the sun.
Then I wait for the tumult of the daytime activities of the moderns to die down and walk beneath
the starfield.
But today, I'm having some insights that I hope to explore with you in the daytime and
I'm out for a walk where color and form provides a contrast to the nocturnal situation.
I've been listening lately to physicists talking about the origins of the knowledge
systems we presently pursue, and particularly the origins of relativity and its relationship
to quantum mechanics.
One of the differences between these two models, visions if you will of how things work, both
of which are fundamentally oriented toward prediction of future states of situations.
In some cases, to understandings of previous states.
The strange thing about relativity as opposed to quantum mechanics is that relativity gives
us something resembling an idea of sort of what the universe is doing, not necessarily
what it is, but what it's up to.
I would argue that that picture is fundamentally mechanical and so is concerned with things
and processes more than it's concerned with beings and relationships, and yet the word
relativity seems to ask us to think more in terms of relation than of things.
And this is in opposition to quantum mechanics, which doesn't answer fundamental questions,
but rather gives us a computational grasp on processes at the submicroscopic level.
And what we find there is fairly confusing.
So rather than the universe being made of stuff with relationships that are intuitive
to us, in quantum mechanics we simply find that there's an ironic trope.
The universe is something like shut up and calculateronium.
Never mind the important questions about beings and relationships and time space and the nature
of the universe, but we have our simply equations that help us to understand something about
the processes and their features and transformations of the time.
Now this is a little bit disingenuous because quantum mechanics does work with something
like the building blocks, quote unquote, I'm not a fan of that term, that are familiar
from nuclear physics, photons and electrons, perhaps quarks and so on.
So we have these two competing views, or actually rather than being competing there
are two views about one fundamental thing, the relationship between which is largely
unclear but seems at present to orbit the concept of gravity.
In some of my talks, some people might get the idea that I'm anti-science, this is the
furthest thing from the truth, researchers and their findings and especially science
fiction authors have been among my most treasured mentors.
The problem is that science as usually practiced by humans, and the usually is very important,
tends toward objectivism and physicalism.
That is we want to know what is the same in the universe if we subtract observers, beings
with minds, to whatever degree we may be capable of doing so in the frames of research that
are most commonly pursued.
Now there are always mavericks out there who want to transform science in various ways,
and some of these mavericks are loopy, and some of them are brilliant and it's a topology
just like any other idea we might think about.
I think what I'm concerned about is situations in which science having subtracted from thought
and experience the uniqueness of individual beings and groups of beings for the purposes
of producing reliable, repeatable experiments with instruments.
Places us in danger of allowing the findings of science to present to our minds a universe
of things and processes, and the incredible authority of science which is natural due
to the structure of proofs and so on.
There's nothing much to balance that out.
There's nothing as profoundly authoritative as an equation, unless of course we realize
that the equations are the produce of minds, and minds will not be captured by the equations
even though it may become possible to simulate some of the activities of minds, beings, in
computational environments.
My own concerns include those of science and research, but I think stand far beyond
them because it seems to me, not just from my conceptual thought, but from my direct
experience, that the universe and the earth and the organisms and so on are more than
merely alive.
They're doing things together that are transcendental to anything science is likely to reveal to
us in the near term.
And so I strongly, very strongly suspect that the nature of time space and the fundamental
questions about structure and discovery and so on is the result of relationships between
intelligences and families of intelligences that we've only rarely been bold enough to
imagine anything that resembles them.
It comes down to a sort of fundamental question, is the universe more like a being or more
like a machine?
When science treats it largely in the latter fashion, the scientific atmosphere is inclined
toward this position.
And again, I think it's very important to have ways of knowing that are like this.
I just think it's very dangerous when they become dominant, and it's even more dangerous
when modern humans, having failed to assemble anything resembling an intelligent society,
inherit the technologies that naturally emerge from scientific research, but the purposes
for which they apply these technologies tend by and large to be omnicidal, even where the
promise of something resembling a utopia or a profoundly intelligent human society is
potentiated by the technologies.
One can imagine a species so intelligent that with nothing more than a pencil, that with
any simple array of tools, the purposes for which they would apply those tools would be
radically transcendent to anything humans have ever done in large groups.
Small groups kind of a different story.
So you have this problem where you have a species, ours, that is terrifically inclined
as if there's a sort of gravity in us to catastrophically misapply the findings of
research and even physics.
There are worse problems, problems like being completely ignorant of the nature of time
space and building a device like the Large Hadron Collider, might we be making irreversible
mistakes by playing around with something that we think of as mechanical in a way that
could damage even the nature, the fabric of local time space.
And if, as I suggest, that fabric is itself transcendentally intelligent, meta-sentient,
in a relational way rather than a mechanical way, we find that the humans continuously
invent devices and processes that are lethal to the biosphere, the humans themselves, potentially
our minds, actually I wouldn't say potentially, certainly our minds, and possibly if there's
any such thing and I would argue that there's something that resembles it, not just our
own souls but the soul of our species and the history and future of life on earth, all
the beings here.
And if the worlds are connected, if the living worlds are connected and I would argue that
they are instantaneously moment to moment, then any damage we do here becomes contagious
in time space.
Most of the ways that humans employ technologies are in service to inclinations and ideas that
are not only not intelligent and lethal when enacted, they are delusional.
We imagine that commodities are fundamental to the nature of organismal reality, everything
needs food, but when a creature arises that's capable of making machines and obliterating
the anciently conserved ecologies in a single geological heartbeat or a thousandth of one
and then proceed without agenda for the sake of the representation of value, power, efficacy.
We have a problem that could be far more universal in its scope of effect than any of the humans
have dared to imagine because we think in terms of individuals and separate things.
We think our world is separate.
We think we're alone in time space.
I say to you that nothing like that is even possible.
And the ways in which it is apparent to us are largely illusions generated by our habits
of thought and the purposes that drive the cognitive distinctions, the cuts that we make
in the manifold of reality or that which is or the universe.
And many of those purposes are fundamentally disease-like and rapidly lead to devastating
consequences.
And so it seems to me that the real frontier isn't merely consciousness by which we might
mean the kinds of stuff that happens in minds of humans while awake, awareness, so on.
When these words are value laden, it's important that we define them carefully if we're going
to use them and I'm going to use them a little bit casually here.
Everything has affected the superlogue of the intelligence of our species at the group
level, all the stuff that happens, especially at the vast group level.
And so it's as if our species has been captured by something that continues to produce evermore
dire implementations of the actual possibilities of our nature and situation as living beings
here on Earth.
I guess this is one of my most fundamental concerns.
How might we become aware of what has captured our species, our vulnerabilities, and produce
something that at least resembles medicine?
I was reading Cassare's language and myth this morning and he was talking about the
difference between mythic consciousness in which a single feature of our experience suddenly
acquires such incredible significance that for all intents and purposes it becomes in
consciousness something resembling a god.
The difference between that and what happens in discursive thought, in referential and representational
language, and of course he's concerned with the same problem I am.
What happened to the humans to produce the situations in which we now find ourselves?
That's funny.
I was just pausing in my recording to do Tai Chi, practice my form, it's the 108 Wu form.
And while I've been making my recording I learned to put my phone into what's called
airplane mode so that it won't receive calls and signals that would necessarily interrupt
my recording and that can be understood as the mode of local, right, where I'm placing
precedence on the local situation to meet what I'm doing right now.
And it struck me as I turned it off while doing Tai Chi, good morning, or afternoon actually,
that science is a bit like airplane mode and weirdly religion which pretends to be the
opposite of airplane mode where we're going to listen to the universe and participate
with it.
It turns out to be its own weird form of contagious airplane mode.
No signals get through.
So this morning as I was reading Kasere, it's very clear to me that our ancient ancestors
had not just forms of intelligence and awareness that we moderns have little exposure to, though
again it's always a topology, there are individuals and small groups who do listen to the universe
and do so without a lot of domineering models and ideas and defenses and arguments and so
on.
It occurred to me this morning that, and it's not a new thought, but imagine that our minds
are actually meant to be vehicles of participation with the entire family of intelligences in
time space.
And believe me when I say that is an incredibly diverse and profoundly astonishing family.
It's not merely that there are physical organisms and non-physical beings that we call gods
or angels or demons or so on, no the actual situation is far more astonishing than any
of our relatively plebeian derivations.
So imagine that we're born, each of us, with the capacity to directly participate in the
family of intelligences that comprise time space, but something happens to us.
We undergo the processes of in-languaging and in-culturation in the societies that we
are born into.
And I've used this metaphor many times, it's as if we're born with a thousand different
kinds of wings for flight in many different domains of relation and the processes that
are supposed to empower and liberate us have largely the opposite effect.
It is as if we can imagine a science fiction story and our story as humans has certainly
become twelve different kinds of science fiction stories and at least eleven of them are incredibly
dire.
But you can imagine a species that's born with a mechanical, they have a mechanical
technology that resembles a time spaceship, a vehicle that can not only instantaneously
traverse any specific distance between our world and another world or a position in space
time, and it's capable of traversing time as well.
So it has the capacity to instantaneously take us to other worlds.
But it's so powerful that it has the capacity to take us to any subset of positions in time
space, all possible subsets, all groupings of subsets and so on.
But instead of using it for travel and relation and learning, the science fiction species
worships the ship and so they never use it for travel or relation or learning.
It's a commodity and they keep dressing the ship up and making museums out of it and the
ship, they never enter it to go anywhere.
It just becomes a representation of power or status or something like this.
And if we want a non-mechanical metaphor, you can imagine a species of birds or an animal
that can change shape into any of the animals or any group of the animals and so on.
But these birds change themselves to boxes and make lots of stories about we have the
best box.
They never fly, they never swim, they never slither or crawl or burrow.
They are chained to the representation of their abilities.
In a sense, they worship the representations.
And our species is facing a problem very similar to this.
These are analogies of what's happening to us.
What I want you to understand is the universe is more than merely intelligent, it's purposive.
It doesn't necessarily have a purpose, but the actual situation is so astonishing that
it would obliterate all forms of representational thought forever if we were introduced to
it directly.
Of course the staggering momentum of the milieu in which our minds arise and exist has the
capacity to obliterate them and perhaps this is what we mean when we use the phrase or
the word enlightenment.
This doesn't mean that post enlightenment we will be incapable of representational cognition,
it means that it will no longer have precedence in thought or behavior or relation.
It's incredibly tragic that we seem to be trapped and even knowing these things I myself
am somewhat trapped in the situation of those birds chained to the cages they formed in
their minds.
Now the humans are suffering from this and they're not intrinsically bad or wrong.
They actually have some kind of an array of noble roles in time space that are natural
to us, however divorced we may be from there directly experiencing or embodying them.
And so it's not really the humans that are bad, it's that strange situation, their cognition
places them in where they are vulnerable to being captured by the ear sats, glitz of
representational thought and physical technology.
There are analogues of technology in consciousness and these analogues are my fundamental concern
because if we cannot give the humans a taste of their actual role and liberty they will
continue to destroy themselves and maybe time space itself and anything else that their
technologies can convert into representations or commodities.
And you see an echo of this problem in religious literature such as the Bible or the Koran
where there are admonitions against the forming of something called idols and also in some
of the religions that surround the Koran there is an admonition against making an image of
anything.
These admonitions are important.
They get at a root problem that once they become blurry or the humans start to do this
any terrifying processes will propagate.
You know I often speak very intellectually in these recordings but I want to speak passionately
for a moment to tell each one of you and even if I could talk to the species I would
say you're born for something so noble and beautiful that nothing in human culture even
approximates it.
Not the finest aspirations of art and science and creativity though these fields have some
relation with it.
We were born the nature of our humanity and our situations as beings in time space is
so profoundly beautiful that if we could but glimpse it we would fail to forget over and
over again in new ways per second what it means to be alive in the family
of all of the beings in all of time.
There's something right next door it's literally in our hands that is so profoundly beautiful
and noble and virtuous and true and deeply alive and compassionate and real and yet nearly
all of us will spend all of our lives blundering around in the battlefield of representational
cognition, objects, technologies, language so that we will literally live lives false
to our nature.
Time space itself is up to something the earth is being someone the sun is being someone
in this family.
These are beings and relationships they are not objects they are not dead processes and
it should be obvious from the fact that our own minds exist at all that something produces
these feelings and it's something these urgencies in our souls and it's something more than
genes a natural selection much more.
If the humans continue to do what they generally do we will obliterate ourselves and unfortunately
we will take with us the anciently conserved ecologies of earth which are moment to moment
the origins and relationships of inheritance from which our minds arise moment to moment
and some will argue well you know life is resilient the humans are resilient you probably
won't obliterate all the humans and so on these questions are trivial these objections
are trivial they have nothing to do with the intrinsically precious and noble nature
of being and life on earth.
I don't think it's likely that anything other than cataclysm will redirect the humans though
it is possible.
What's very unlikely is that there will be large scale systemic change without incredibly
horrific tragic catastrophe tragic because unnecessary the hope lies in so far as I can
understand it in small tightly knit groups rediscovering the nature of the humans organisms
in general beings in general minds and reconnecting us with the network of intelligences that
are responsible for the structure of time space.
The transcendental intelligences embodied or not that are probably the origin of our
minds and perhaps our own species I often imagine a situation where our ancestors were
in direct contact with these intelligences many of them most likely transphysical and
our minds were born in symbiotic union with theirs and then over time there was something
resembling an accident and the link between our species and these intelligences broke
down over time and was then mimicked and represented in religion and perhaps science.
It's conceivable to me that a small group of humans and we can easily do this together
in a limited way over a short duration any time we come together with purposes that are
truly wandering in the direction of virtue and intelligence and placing precedence on
unity and relation rather than on distinction power and commodity I can imagine a small
group of humans becoming so brilliantly human together that they reestablish the link between
our species and the family of intelligences the time space is the result of and I can
imagine this becoming incredibly contagious much more contagious than any of the daemon
like processes that presently imprison nearly all of us and most of the complex living world
the animals and living places and I guess I have a dream about this a vision I'm coming
to the intersection where many machines dominate the terrain and it's so dangerous that we
have to have special signals there to allow the organisms that understand the street lights
and built them to survive crossing that gap that is dominated by the cars and trucks and so on.
Somehow we must learn together to unchain our minds from the battlefield of representational
cognition and grant them the an amnesis the recollection the directly experienced liberty
that comes from even a moment of contact you know I had a kind of cartoon in my mind earlier I had
discovered some organisms swimming in the water and I'd never seen anything like it and at least
I'd never had an experience like the one I was having and the organism was very small and unusual
and I couldn't tell to which category of organisms it belonged I couldn't tell at first whether it
was an insect or an amphibian or perhaps some kind of strange tiny fish and in the moment of not
knowing there was liberty finally I don't know the what of my experience what I'm focused on
but I'm present in wonder and curiosity and this I think is a beautiful moment later after I spent
some time observing the organism so on I felt I came to an understanding of what it was in terms
of the human categories but a sort of cartoon like vision came into my mind where a human is gently
relating with something it thinks of as an insect let's say a praying mantis for example and then
the classic icon of an alien right the thin body long fingers three digits maybe praying mantis
like face with great big eyes and tiny tiny nostrils and mandibles and so on so I saw this
like ladder right the human is relating with the insect the alien is relating with the human
but strangely it's not like this cartoon it's almost the opposite right the intelligences of
time space are present and alive and aware in the praying mantis but the human thinks of them
as an insect separate from themselves and the same is true in the human idea of the aliens with
their potentially astonishing quote technologies unquote relating with the human but all of this
is backwards this is one family and the aliens technologies may have nothing to do with our
ideas of machines it also occurred to me since I've been listening to physicists lately that
there are some models where there's something resembling an anti-universe a sort of twin
to our universe that has different properties and these two universes are intimately co-emergent
and I've spent a great deal of time thinking about aliens and what it might be like to have
an actual relationship with some and I've had experiences that are at least that strange
probably stranger and many of them were not momentary they lasted a long time perhaps they
are still lasting in ways that are not as obvious to my current waking consciousness as they might
become under certain circumstances we belong to a family of intelligences and the nature of time
space is not about things there's something fundamentally heroic in our origins and tribulations
something shared by all beings in all of time as if they are fundamentally first a unity and
only trivially appear to arise and compete perhaps and depart
these are my thoughts today thank you for joining me I look forward to learning together again very soon
