Hello everybody. Welcome.
I'm thinking about a quote
that I'll include notes for
in the posting of this video.
And it's a long and complex quote
by a brilliant scholar of ancient languages.
And it begins by saying
two quotes I remind myself of
every single day.
And I'll paraphrase slightly.
The map is not the territory.
This is a very complex idea,
but it's a simple metaphor.
It's between models, concepts, categories,
and reality, or the world as it is.
And I don't mean the world
as it is without us, because that's not
a reasonable thing to wonder about. There's no instance of anything
like that in our experience, although some might argue
deep sleep, or perhaps
awakening. But the idea is that
there's the blatant truth, it seems,
is that there can't be a one-to-one correspondence
between our models, and that which is.
All events, phenomenon, situations, beings,
minds, moments, transactions,
tribulations. So
the models are conveniences, and we are prone to forget this.
To continue with the quote,
all models are wrong.
Let that sink in for a moment.
The very smart people will think, yes, but that's a model,
so there's a paradox. If you take it to that
order of reference, there is.
But it's saying the same thing. Our ideas, explanations, descriptions,
analyses, all of these things are
a peculiar form
of thought activity, plus recording,
plus testing,
plus minds themselves.
All models are wrong. Some models
are useful.
And this has
an illuminating effect
on one of the central ideas
that we depend on in common thinking. The idea of
a fact. By the time we say
something is a fact, we mean this model
is true.
It's concretely true.
One might say the fact of my weight on the earth,
the fact of the feeling on the bottom of my feet,
those are slightly less representational facts
than the idea that one plus one equals two or two parallel lines
never meet.
Turns out there's a problem in this mess with
context, so that models
arise and work within contexts, and the contexts have
something that resembles axioms, assumptions
underneath them.
And we form these contexts for all kinds of
crazy human thinking reasons, and
selling and buying reasons, and
praising and punishing reasons, and all of these kinds of reasons.
We make lots of these models and concepts and categories,
but they're not
the world. And with different
categories, with categories that were even slightly more trustworthy,
our minds would be relieved
of an implacable burden.
The burden of accounting for all the
actual known inconsistencies between all the models
and the things they point at.
Now in his quote he goes on to say
that when we confuse
models with the real, with identity,
with meaning, with value,
with moral senses and
physical senses, when we confuse the models with the things
we use them to point at and talk about
then we will believe that the models are true,
and in that case the world becomes terribly distorted
and a very tiny
neighborhood of what it might otherwise have been.
And then he goes on to say that the models are useful within the
contexts they're appropriate to. This is very important.
It introduces the idea that facts have scope.
The facts
of arithmetic work within the scope of the axioms of arithmetic,
and so too geometry. But they are not
perfectly true, and they are not
as Godel's incompleteness theorems propose. They can't be set on an
absolutely reliable structured logical foundation
ever.
This is because
certainly probably because subsystems can't encompass themselves.
Under certain conditions anyway, sub-features
of cognition can't encompass themselves. They can't
leap up another order to the order beyond theirs.
And the same is true of facts. And some facts
are certainly true in a system we've developed, like geometry.
The fact, for example, that parallel lines never meet,
that's an axiom. It's an
assumption. And when that assumption, when we look at it from another
perspective, the perspective of Riemannian
geometry, we find that all parallel lines
meet other lines, at least. And maybe all of them
meet. I'm not an expert on this form of geometry.
Facts have a necessary
array of limitations, not just a single limitation.
Their factfulness is dependent
on many assumptions.
And those assumptions are native to the
context in which those facts function.
Somehow well enough, either to be compelling enough
to our imaginations or
our desires, or to be concise
enough to fulfill the necessities of
molecular biology and particle physics and things like this.
Apparently
the idea
that a theory was factual
or the confusion of theory with fact is not very old.
At least
the implications
of a useful reading of the Greek word, I think
it's theoria, it does
not imply a fact at all. In fact, quite the opposite.
It implies a useful perspective. Remember the second part of the quote
where he said
some models are useful.
And I think humans are inclined to confuse
usefulness with authoritativeness. The fact
that it works means
it's truth.
You turn the key in the engine or hit your car fob and the engine starts.
It actually happens. So that seems true.
Of course there are different kinds of
facts. That low level, I would call it
kind of fact, the fact of when I unlock the door I can open it.
Those are a different kind of truth than theories and models.
Though they are concepts.
We do have concepts so that we can speak about them and determine
whether or not our thinking is useful or dangerous
or insightful.
So there's an urge toward turning everything to utility.
And the facts are utilitarian within their
natural context. But those contexts have very limited scope.
And we are not trained to recognize or
apply this scope, most of us. If we're philosophers or linguists
we may have some training. Some people may
have an intuition but be incapable of
formulating it in their consciousness.
He goes on to say
that when we use these maps and models predictively
or prescriptively,
catastrophe ensues. This is a paraphrase
but very bad things happen.
Once we've taken the models for true presentations
of meaning, identity and value and so on, the tree is just a
tree.
Once we've made that fundamental error,
if we then use the results to predict
future situations
or prescriptively to
attempt in some way to address them
and nullify them or enhance them,
this stuff is bound to go sideways because
we're in a dream of representations, we've lost touch
with.
Both the vast incompleteness of our models
and that which is unknowable,
that which might be experienceable but can't be held in
representations of thought or language.
Most of what's going on fits in there.
We also throw out the
transformational quality of relation as human beings
and living beings and perhaps beings with souls.
When we encounter
phenomena and phenomena and beings encounter us,
we transform each other dramatically all the time.
It's what every living thing is doing
and probably most of the nonliving things are doing this as well.
Perhaps not in the same way.
The opportunity space collapses.
It collapses to the declarations of our models.
This is natural for most
modern human beings, in fact it's natural for me.
I can occasionally step up
a layer and look down on the processes
and see I have taken the models
to be true. Now back to the Greek word
theoria.
The term implied
take
a way of looking at some
phenomenon or concern or situation
and producing perspectives that were useful
but it was irrelevant
whether or not they were true. In other words, they were never taken
as true.
You could have three or five perspectives
some of which conflict
without any problem at all.
This is the idea
that has been so compelling to me for many years
that we can play with perspectives
like lenses that transform what we see
focusing on some things, blurring others
bringing forth unseen
depth and novelty
and intelligence
and understanding
something like bifocals for the mind but you'd need
quite a number of different lenses wouldn't we?
Yet we don't have to have
physical lenses. Our minds are malleable
we have the capacity to learn things that to previous generations
were impossible and so too the capacity to forget them
to forget things
that were fundamental to the nature of our
spirit as human being.
So
the old theories
were perspectives
that highlight something we found useful, meaningful
something
things that we could operationalize in war or technology
mathematics or science
perhaps even mysticism
as if the humans were exploring a vast
dimension inside nature
in their own cognition and relationship with the universe
but particularly earth and each other
and that space is filled with models
the author I'm quoting
who I can't name here
or actually I probably could
I'll just have to pause for a moment
I can pull this off
his name is Dan McClellan and you can find him on tiktok
I think that's double L
because I want to say that
when
our species were modern people
or people in general or someone particular is doing this
and most of us I think are doing mostly this
it's because we're
again I'm paraphrasing somewhat
we're rejecting the possibility of understanding for the low-hanging fruit
of curating our position on
what something is, who it is, where it is, why it is,
how it is, which it is
the fundamental question things
so instead of
attempting to reach for new understanding we're clinging to held
positions that result from crystallizing the models
that we have or that we form
and some of them are just inherited the categories you basically inherit
that if you invent outside of it you're probably
going to be a genius or look that way to regular humans
but the basic categories those are given
and they're missing very important
elements
without which
we are unfortunately much more inclined to collapse our minds into the models
and descriptions and words and language and so on
and so in our minds
the profound beauty and dimensionality
of the actual way things are outside of our models
mostly just bounces off of us
it's as if we've become a template that filters
80% of what we might
intelligently experience off
as its first few moves
so then we are left isolated in a world of
dead objects, the Samantha neighborhood the house
the car, the smart phone, the garbage cans
and even when we see the trees or the bushes and their little boxes
or rectangular frames
and take pictures of them or whatever we do
there's nothing there
being present in as our human selves
our animal selves
the potentials of our intelligence have largely been prohibited
by this kind of activity and it turns out this kind of activity
is extremely successful and contagious in human populations
it's almost all of what's going on
from one perspective on the map
to another perspective there are astonishing lighthouses
of awareness and intelligence
within the broad topology of our species at this moment
and similarly throughout time
there are examples
of humans becoming
recovering some of the possibilities that
are included
so
when I think about facts
I don't resist their facticity
but I recognize that their scope is limited to the context from which they emerge
and that there are different kinds of facts
the physical facts seem to form
less theoretical than ideological facts
or even mathematical facts
so there are different kinds
but each type of fact if I say
so here's an example of someone taking the model to be true
if I pick some particular branch
of category of humans
it's probably pretty common to think and reasonably so that
adults will see children as being naive
similarly however children will see
adults as being crystallized meaning frozen
in an array of very confusing
behaviors
so those are generalizations
and they're true
with the axioms that go with them
the assumptions I'm making
but they're really very abstract
we're not talking about an actual person or situation
we're talking about an idea
and many other useful ideas could be introduced
to this one
so
I'll admit the perspective but I don't reify it into a fact
and I can have other perspectives too
and hopefully I will
I'm trying to illustrate
that
if we're aware of the context
from which it emerges and in which it is presented and in which it's meaningful
then we're less inclined
to make wildly unjustified generalizations
usually or often universal
generalizations
and this is when the fact escapes its proper scope
and we promote it to the idea of truth
it is true
now the idea of truth is complex
I'm not going to dissect it here
but for most of human history
there weren't any models
that were promoted as being factual
it appears
they were understood to be
partial encapsulations of something
and we make the opposite mistake
instead of seeing facts as partial encapsulations
as successful true encapsulations
part of the problem with Galileo's theory
wasn't necessarily that the planets orbit the sun
but rather
that this was true
that it was a fact
or way of using
thought and language
threatened
the bastions of
the
axiomatically presumed omniscience, omnipotence
and omnipresence of God
now there was a kind of truth that could compete against that
though
why it would have to compete against it is certainly beyond me
or why the humans play it that way, also mostly beyond me
I have some models of it
so facts are local to context
their usefulness is narrowed to the scope
from which they emerge and to which they apply
and they are toys
I prefer that we play with them rather than take them terribly seriously
though obviously there are some we should take pretty seriously
again it's a continuum of meaning
and
a continuum of what compels us
we might
know
we feel, we have a model of the earth
as some kind of spheroid
oblong something or other
and the model is reasonably true
there are some examples and perspectives from which we're looking at it
but certainly it is also true that you could form a perspective from which the earth looks flat
from space
it wouldn't necessarily look like a sphere
there's different ways of looking at it and if we change our perspective in dimensionality
we might find that there are useful things to understand
from pretending that the earth might be flat
but I'm not claiming that this is the best model
my point is
if we can play with perspective
openly with less concern about its
facticity then we can learn all kinds of astonishing
things from angles of thought
and curiosity
that are ordinarily mostly off limits to most of us most of the time
I think and that was a three phase sequential generalization
I should be penalized for that
the skies of our minds
are filled with the artifacts
the vastly outmoded categories
and ideas and maps and models
and the vast weight of that is dragging us down as a species
we are not trained to use these things
to understand their forms, their activity
how we can relate with them intelligently
the art of relating with one's own mind intelligently
I don't think the mind is like a computer program
but it's useful to think that it has modules
and the modules are swappable
we can put different modules in there
better ones, better vigilance module, better threat sentinel
better opportunist module
better imagineer module
but even if we, then this is just a toy
I think this is part of what we strive to do
if we're hungry to learn throughout our lives
we chase insight and the deep questions
we admit the answers that the humans propose
seem very deeply
factual
very deeply true
at least in the physical sense
and we live in the constructs that emerge
from these models, we live in societies that emerge from these models in cultures
that somewhat resist sometimes and somewhat
fall under the sway of
the structured habits of our ancestors and peers
we must be free to play with ideas
without having to
only concern ourselves with whether or not they are true
or the best ideas
and certainly there's no best idea
there's the opportunity space and the minds
and how they relate with it and
the choices they make and something of
impossibility and mystery and incompleteness and
scope
scope
scope
understanding the reasonable
or useful scope of authorizing
ideas and concepts might be the core skill
I've been circling in this talk
scope
scope
scope
because the scope is so limited
that if we're stuck there
if that's what draws us to thought
and behavior
then the birds of our minds are crawling
in something sticky
those inheritances
we've acquired from our ancestors and assembled during our lifetimes with our peers
those are supposed to be helpful
not lethal but not supposed to make us forget everything
the purpose of those is to be authentically
helpful and useful
once they become gods, once our minds collapse into the models
and categories and words
there's no oxygen in there
there's no inspiration
it's not habitable terrain
one small set of faculties and one aspect of our minds
but when it prospers in this way it becomes miserable
anyway because it's divided from all the other faculties
and it's the faculty
that has affinities for representational
thought and representations themselves and artifacts
and such
wants to build things
and grasp them and direct them and control them
useful faculty
unless it's by itself
so those faculties are part of what draws us into the trap
of taking the models and maps
to be the world or reality or that which is
thank you for joining me
I look forward to learning together again sometime very soon
