Hey everybody.
The plug is coming.
So, I've made a couple of companions here in the gardens, different ones here and there.
And it's interesting to me that we're commonly aware, kind of viscerally, if we have any experience
of what we call pets, that that companionship enriches our humanity. The companionship with our
fish or our snake or our birds or our dogs or our cats. And of course, some people have unusual
companions. Though I haven't seen it, I'm not surprised to hear. In fact, I'm modestly pleased
and a little concerned to hear about, you know, the deep potentials of human octopus relations,
which is suddenly, you know, part of the zeitgeist. So, most of us, not everyone,
have had an experience of the nature of our humanity transforming and being enriched in
relation with other life forms. And I don't mean by turning them into commodities. That's a different
kind of enrichment. That's the, you know, turned bodies into tokens, into stacks of tokens in banks,
kind of enrichment. I would argue that's defection from actual relation. So, I've made a couple of
friends here. There's a pair of blue jays that might well be, they seem young to me. And they
might well be siblings. What do we have here? Looks probably like an old owl pellet. No,
conceivably, I'm pretty sure it's an owl pellet. And so, this pair of blue jays has become familiar
with me, because I bring them, you know, something that they like. And, you know, they're sort of
competitive. They're a little bit competitive, but one is far more competitive than the other. And,
hopefully, my audience will forgive me if I suspect that that one's male. I've seen pairs of siblings
in birds often. And I don't claim to be able to tell, right, their, their genders explicitly,
but there's a motif, right? And there's a motif among all the birds. The males tend to engage in
certain kinds of behavior. The females tend to engage in alternate behavior. And there's
exceptions, you know, nature's varied. But those birds, when I'm with them, we extend each other.
And one of the things that I think it's, it's easy to overlook, because we may wish to dismiss the
biblical trope of humans as the shepherds of life. And in my view, that's a somewhat confused
dismissal, because it's, there's all kinds of ways in which, let us at least say, the influence of
our species is overwhelming. And it's impact on all the other living relationships.
So I don't want us to dismiss the trope. I don't want us to say, well, we're not really shepherds,
nature is the big thing going on. And we're a phenomenon within that, you know, we're a child
process of that or something. Except that there's a sort of blindingly confused idea that
we're the important thing going on. An anthropocentrism, excuse me, anthropocentrism.
Yeah, meaning human centered, but in a weird sort of broken, egoic way, right? Not in a
in a way that's not only unhelpful, it's crippling. If we adopt such perspectives, we
then defect from intimacy and interbeing and centropy with
life, all the living beings. But a long time ago, I was doing Tai Chi and
for a while, over a period of time, this one particular squirrel would come
and it would stand on the time legs, white belly or cute arms kind of folded in front of it.
And it would just observe me.
Whatever might have been going on there, any kind of story I make up about is extremely partial.
That's the nature of relation.
Our explanations and our narratives capture, but the tiniest shred of something. And actually,
whether they capture it, they capture and transform it, right? So it's not just usually
just capture. In any case, the squirrel often came and one day I thought, you know,
I'll bring the squirrel something to eat. And then I realized that
that whole scenario, which I did, I brought the squirrel something.
But one way to think about this scenario is that
the squirrel contacted on earth, right? A human being.
And was able to relate with the human being in such a way that that human being went in,
you know, in the dimension of humans, which is quite distinct from the dimension of squirrels,
even though they're on the same world, got that human, not got it, but through relation
inclined the human into acting in the human dimension in the squirrel's interest.
Now, again, I'm not claiming that's what happened. I'm saying it's a very useful perspective.
Because the way that we extend each other as living beings, all of the organisms, without exception,
is part of why we have old myths and stuff and strange new deceptive kind of spiritually
woowish stuff. And the rare and precious people who have reestablished
something intrinsically mysterious, which is deep intimate relation with living places and plants
and insects and animals and the moon time in which those over which those relationships
become apparent, transform, disappear, much like the moon itself, and how there's not just a story
there, there's a re-embodiment of relationships so ancient and profound that it's extremely
difficult to encompass them with any ordinary language, or at least I find it so. And so if I
manage to authentically gain, for example, an intimate relationship with a specific plant,
and in case this is sounding bizarre on the surface, let's be very clear that anyone who grows
plants, they learn about sort of the secret emotional, soulful, heartful
union that arises between a plant that one loves and cares for, even if it's in a pot,
which I admit is a very strange idea, and one we should think more carefully about in terms of
our own lives because life in a pot isn't necessarily the kind of thing we might want to choose, but
though some pots, you know, it's a very protected environment, it's also a very isolated environment,
how do you, you know, where does your pollen go? My point though is that
the humans who have plants and who grow them with any degree of engagement and awareness,
we all discover that there are non-ordinary dimensions in this relationship. We don't have to
make them, I don't have to declare them to be fundamentally mystical, though they have this
connotation for me, they're not merely mechanical, and somehow, perhaps in ways somewhat invisible to
us most of the time, the relationship with the plants transforms us, right? There's new space,
there's new landscapes for dreaming and insight and healing and understanding and such, these
relationships are deep and they are rich and they're not, you can make narratives about them
and some of those could be useful in people capable of implementing them authentically,
or of implementing what they point toward authentically. So my relationship with the plants or
beehive or a specific insect that I come across, these transform and extend me because they give me,
and some people say that's just in your imagination, I'll be like, yeah, so is your comment,
they extend my interiority, an aspect of my interiority into other universes of life.
Life, stranger and more ancient than the sum of human stories, any one of these organisms
is like that, so infinitely deep. A tree of lineages, a little leaf, you're seeing the leaf,
right, when I run into, for example, the parasitic wasp from New Zealand that I found
in the little man-made pond over here one year,
and I rescue it from the pond, right, and I have no idea what it is. My friend Alexi helped me figure
it out. I cannot recall the name of it, but it's a parasitic wasp that is particular to the Atlas
cedar tree, which turns out to be interesting. These two universes met, right, and there's a
transfer there. I live in the world in a way that can rescue a drowning wasp that would otherwise
have no opportunity to survive, and I can choose to do so. And this is one of the other weird things
about the human side of this thing, is it's almost like, okay, so from one perspective,
I'm going to take humans as a very exceptional species for the sake of this perspective.
There's the earth, right, and all of the living beings on it, and they're all organisms and they're
all, they become animals and reptiles and so forth, jungles and incredible storms of life in the ocean,
inconceivably diverse and myriad.
And then, you know, we don't really know how we got humans around here. I just want to be really
clear about that. There's a lot of mystery there. I don't doubt evolutionary models, but neither do I
take them as completely conclusive. Humans look like a pretty strange anomaly,
in more ways than one. If you just look at nature and then you see humans, we really,
like, you know, this stuff, I mean, we really stand out as something strange. So it's almost as if
nature produced this kind of outer space being, right? This weird, dangerous, potentially alienable,
right? I think we're pretty much the only creature that can respond to all of nature with alienation.
And this is not modestly important in thinking about how our cultures,
there's a projection here on to life from outer space, right? There's a projection there in,
that, for example, many of the, you know, abduction experiences that have been reported by people,
which I think are a very complex phenomenon, by the way. I'll take that up another time.
Involve being treated clinically, right? So the only thing on earth I know of that treats
anything clinically is us. And that's weird. So it's almost like earth gave birth to these weird
kind of outer space beings, alienable from nature, yet still within nature. And we became sort of a
new layer, right, in the biocognitive hyperstructure of earth or the biorelational hyperstructures.
However you want to think about it, I like to think about it in weird,
multi-dimensional manifolds that transform over time, but I'm strange that way.
And originally, you know, our people were born in deep sympathy with nature,
intimacy and awareness, such that it was absolutely clear to our ancient ancestors
that each of the plants and the animals is at once its own being and like a doorway into
relation that extends both, right, that transforms both participants, so that they,
in a sense, can be understood to acquire what we might can... Oh, it's not the right word.
It's blatantly obvious with cats and dogs, right? They acquire, in relation with humans, of course,
it can go badly. The humans can be cruel or mean or insane or drug addicted or whatever,
or just stupid, and often, you know, I am. Well, I mean, some of those things sometimes.
The humans can be, you know, it can go really badly for the animals, but when it goes well,
it's pretty amazing. The animal comes to, is transformed by relation with the human,
and comes to exist in the human dimension, right, as if there was just some kind of space travel
here, except it's relational, and or dimensional travel, at least, which is potentially weirder.
Think about it. And similarly, the human, and again, depending on how the humans in the game,
or how the humans are in the game, can be profoundly extended by a dog or a cat.
That relationship is so deep, right?
And all I'm, all I'm trying to say is those kinds of relationships, although a pet relationship
has very unique features, a companion relationship is more open and freer, right?
I don't take the Blue Jays home with me. And I've heard many stories of people, I mean,
there's a woman in my neighborhood, I think her name is Maria, older German woman, who
has for many years had this incredible relationship with the local Raven population.
And you can believe she's extended by that relationship, and they
as well, right? So there is this weird way in which
when we're really deeply in a kind of intimate relationship with living places and living beings,
even for just a few moments, right? Even if, even if we just travel to this opportunity and,
and become present there for a moment and show up. The living world
is very, very different from our models of it. It's, there's, there's layers of universes here
that our modernity has completely, has completely eclipsed. And, and part of the way it eclipses
it is by telling stories about it. And one might say, well, Darren, you're telling stories about
it now, except I'm not, I'm not trying to tell a story that says what it is. I don't understand it,
meaning that my understanding cannot encompass it, right? In the same way that I don't truly
understand water, or any simple thing. Language is very deceptive. We can make noises that refer
to stuff like out there, and we think, oh, I know what that is. No. No. I mean, in, in one,
you know, in a lexical way, you know what the symbols correspond to, but that doesn't tell you
anything about the nominatum, the thing this, the thing the sign points at, right? If I say the moon,
it doesn't tell you anything about the moon. So, filling those tokens with content, meaningful
content, is part of the task of a lifetime. And one of the things I'm trying to highlight here is that
if we're missing these layers of relation, that the animal we are is made in and of and for,
it won't be likely, we will still be humans and we'll still have human experience and so on and so
forth, but we're missing like 90 percent, you know, of what's,
this is the kind of tragic impoverishment that I believe we must learn to address together, right?
We have to remember together, and not according to some creed,
what it means to be in deep relation with living places and plants and animals
and insects and fish and birds and, you know, all of the herbs and all of the food plants and
their relationships that they have between each other, like we've learned over time, for example,
in agricultural contexts that certain plants do very well together, and some plants clearly
don't do very well together. Relationships. Now, is there some mystical underpinning there? Well,
we could probably find a scientific structure to, you know, to do reductionism with and say,
for example, will this root bacteria, you know, these roots are symbiotic with these,
this array of bacteria and these roots are symbiotic with this other array of bacteria
and these two bacterial constellations conflict fundamentally somehow, right?
Sure, that's not the whole truth, though. The fact that we can identify a mechanism
doesn't mean the process is mechanistic. It means that reductionism is relatively
dependable in a particular lane of knowledge, right? But that knowledge is
it fails to include the native freedom of relational dimensionality, meaning,
identity, right? You know, when we say, like, if x equals z, x plus one equals z plus one,
the degree of truth is very useful in the incredibly narrow context,
but x has no content, z has no content. I'm just stating an axiom.
So my point was that
we are born for travel in a relational, in layered arrays of relational hyper systems
in nature. We are, our bodies are made of this and our minds are made for it,
but our ideas hide this. They inhibit it mostly. And it's weird. We can have ideas,
we can inhibit it two different ways with ideas, right? One is by saying, well, that's impossible.
That's no part of any kind of reality I'm familiar with or will be. And that's a pretty good inhibition.
But the other one, which is just as weird in its own way is, oh, I know how that works.
Yeah, right? And here's how it works. And, you know, a long explanation. I mean, I can toy with
models and stuff. And sometimes that's interesting or useful. But it's, the situation is profusely
mysterious. It's mysterious in maybe a nearly infinite number of ways, right? It'll never be
encompassed by some description, though descriptions can point toward it.
When I develop a relationship with a plant or an insect or an animal, I'm connecting the human
dimension to their entire lineage all the way back to the beginning of life.
There's a reunion moment, right? Between the humans and the parasitic male losp,
or between the humans and the blue jay, or between the humans and the oregano plant.
And it goes both ways, right? I am enriched by the lineage of the being I'm in relation with.
And that being acquires a friend in the kind of weird outer space of the human world.
And, you know, we're the only, one of the weirdest things about us is we can get things wrong and
completely fuck shit up and just factory kill whole universes. On the other hand, I mean,
as a species, we do this all the time. But on the other hand, we're one of the weird
exceptions in nature where if another animal is injured or in a bad situation, and often this
is because there's humans in the first place, but not always, we can intervene.
Isn't that weird? But nature produced just one animal with the capacity to complexly intervene
in the suffering of other animals. It's a very peculiar feature for
earth creatures. Now, it's not that no other creature can protect or help another creature,
they can, but the number of domains and like they can't help them fix a broken wing, right?
And it was really interesting recently when somewhere on the internet, I saw noises about
looking for the first signs of intelligence in humans. And one, I think, bold and actually
intelligent researcher said, you know, what we have here is fairly clear evidence of an assisted
healing and a bone break, you know, many thousands of years ago, right? And that's what she's pointing
at is evidence of intelligence, care, right? The capacity to
act to relieve the suffering of another being or to intentionally enrich
the life and potentials of another being.
Now, of course, all of this kind of thing I'm talking about, we do it between us too,
because each of us is in the human dimension very uniquely, right? So in the same way, humans are,
we're very familiar with this game, we just don't, most of us don't really believe we can play that
with nature. Like, we don't believe there's a tree here that could get me a job,
like a good job, but there probably is. I mean,
yeah, I guess that sounds superficially ridiculous.
But what I'm trying to say is that the other living beings are in the world in a much more
complex and rich way than we imagine, simply because we don't know, like we probably tried
talking to animals and stuff at some point, and trees and things as a child, some of us anyway,
I did. And I was really confused that it didn't work.
It took a long time before I realized that it wasn't the words that do the communicating,
it's ones. See, this is the really weird thing. There's no word for this in English that's very
good. They're all value laden. In, like in my torso, there is something
very emotional, very deep and resonant and heartfelt and profound. And it's that thing,
that aspect of me that actually listens to the insect or the plant, and it's blind intellectually.
It's blind. It's not a thinking thing. And also speaks sometimes in images,
but often just in ache, in resonating awe or wonder or reverence, ecstasy,
reunion, these very deep emotions. And I'm not claiming that I have these emotions all the time,
but when I slow down and I'm present, then the doorway between me and the living world begins
to open a little bit. And now these opportunities for deep meaningful relationships with living
places and beings, whether they're momentary or ongoing, they appear. And they often have
non-ordinary, you know. Each of the beings is not a person, but they are unique. They're unique.
Well, I mean, it's all kinds of things going on. For one thing, they're like the expression of a
tree of lineages. And not just the tree of the lineages of like, this is an oak tree. Let's
trace it back to the first oak tree and before and the first, you know, life on earth. It's not
just, that's not the only tree that's there. That tree is surrounded by a very complex cloud of
symbiotic relationships, abiotic relationships, right, things to kill, parasitic relationships,
right, all these things. And these words aren't very good. They're just the ones we commonly use.
So, yeah, when you touch any living being, the essence of this being, or it touches you,
as sometimes happens when we're available, there's, it's possible to experience something that there
are no reasonable stories about in any of the human literature at all.
The humans have the capacity to join the lineages of life. And this is one of our unique
assets that's easily overlooked in modernity. And we are not given the foundations that we need.
Though many of us, many of us have natural affinities, right? And so some of us really need
help, right? There's other people that will say, if I speak this way, like, how do I, you know,
what do I do if I want to make friends with a tree?
And, I mean, I tend to give really simplistic advice, right, like,
learn about the tree, spend time with the tree, bring it something good. It might be water,
or you could bring it some dirt. It's not going, the dirt isn't going to, you know,
make the tree like bringing it a fruit salad or something. It's the
intention of, of making a gift, right? Like, I carry you with me when I'm not with you.
This thing, right? I carry you with me when I'm not with you. You're part of me. And I bring you
this offering that we may become acquainted. And, of course, you don't want to, like, force
yourself on anything, right? You want to feel your way into the thing and spend, you know,
just spend time, pay attention. Hopefully, it's a tree you have some, you know, curiosity about,
some interest in, some esteem for, right? Like, you really like this tree. For some reason,
it speaks to you in some way, right? So, it's a selective thing, but there's also an overall
general thing where, like, when I'm walking around in this living place right now,
partly I'm speaking for the living place, right, not just for my own agenda, which I mistrust,
at least modestly, because once I start making face noises, things get a little strange.
The life around me now is the living moment of vast lineages of life. So, when I touch this leaf,
with awareness, there's a reunion. This is part of what is meant by the word communion.
Not so much we come together to eat food, but rather,
we remember one another from before. I remember you from before. Before what?
All the befores. Before everything.
You know, when nature sets these little bubbles of life adrift together, but also apart, right,
both and more. Each unique one gathers very,
it gathers richness, personal
experience of the universe, of time-space, and it's also like the vessel of its entire people
and all their relationships and all of this, right? So, it's a really profound thing to encounter
life form, at all. If you're out in space, and just like, if you just point in a direction and
follow that line, your chances of encountering anything like a complex terrestrial organism,
I can't say exactly what they are. They're actually unknown, but intuitively, they seem
profoundly slim to me. So, the fact that there's all this life here is actually,
this is what I'm trying to get across, we used to travel in the relational networks,
and some people still know this, right? If I went to some specific Indigenous tribe and I talked in
this way in their language, I'm sure they would laugh and say, of course, of course. I mean,
we never talk about that because it's just as obvious as oxygen, right? But yes, of course,
this is so. We live in this universe of multiply-embodied nearby realities that we can transfer to
and travel in. Now, that's a very exotic experience for any kind of modern human being. It could be
profoundly confusing to them. It's sometimes been confusing to me.
In this sense, the majority of humans are like birds who got really interested in making stairs
and worshipping stairs and stopped flying and just made a lot of staircases.
We've lost this essential thing that each of us is born with uniquely and some less and some more
and some, you know, in a particular angle, they have a particular angle on the thing.
On Earth, unity has precedence. Now, I think everywhere unity has precedence. All this stuff
comes from, well, it's complex to make simple language about it. Everything alive, though,
here, it shares origins and lineages and histories and they traveled all together, right? So the
lines of history for the elm tree and the honey bee and the, you know, the clam, right? They were
all together in time and the ones that are with us now are those that survived and managed to propagate
and become successful in the time we live in until, you know, maybe a hundred, two hundred years ago
when we started as a species actively wiping stuff out.
So in a sense, in nature, we are each other's bodies. Our thinking is not much like this.
We are each other's family, fundamentally, in a way that's so overwhelming to directly
experience that we'd probably kind of forget about religion or maybe we'd have very different ones.
And I was just thinking about this and having some experience of it today while I was walking.
And I thought, well, I'll wander around the topic for a bit and see if I can get anywhere.
So thank you for joining me for my little experiment and my exercise today.
And I wish you every good thing and hope that you may find a door,
if you haven't already, into the living places and the sacred relationships
of all the living beings.
Bye-bye for now.
