Hello, everybody. Welcome. It's a rather chilly day here in San Francisco, where I live, and I am walking in time.
I am walking in relation. I am walking in memory, in opportunity, and under threat, with all the living beings and all of their ancestral lineages.
Which surely must reach back before the birth of earth into time-space itself.
So that when forms appear before me here, I sense in them an origin far more beautiful and strange than any we have yet been bold enough to imagine.
I am at the moon pool, one of my favorite places, and one of the places that has been a source of silent teaching for me. The light on the water.
And if you look at the pool, and very few people really understand the essential intention held by whoever it was that envisioned this place.
This little pool. It's easily overlooked. They walk out on the little platform, and actually the platform is almost as big as the pool. It takes one out onto.
But the pool itself is truly magical. And nearly everyone overlooks this, quite literally standing on the platform above the pool.
The play of light on water is one of the most mysterious and fundamentally instructive phenomena that we can experience and participate in if we're of a mind to.
And each part of the pool is different. Each part of the pool is alive uniquely and moving or still uniquely.
There's a special kind of silence here, a living silence. And if you really want to see what's going on with the pool, you have to bring eyes that have been enchanted.
Eyes capable of enchantment.
One of the magical things about the pool is just how changing one's perspective changes everything one sees.
But it's a sky mirror. So I'm just watching birds looking down into the pool. I'm watching birds fly in the reflection. Some seagulls.
And so I can see up by looking down. And that's an important thing. But the pool has layers.
There's the layer we could think of as the reflection in which I can see the shimmering image of all the trees that surround it.
And then if I change my vision, I can see the surface of the water, little water plants floating there and water striders and movement, the wind and light on the water, how they play together.
So there's the reflection and then there's the surface. And then there's all that lives in the space between the surface and the plants and myriad little water creatures that live in the between of the surface and the bottom.
And then I can see what's on the bottom. And really you can see all these things at once, but ordinarily one's focus will select a layer.
And this is part of the magic, but not even close to the whole secret. It's so beautiful to see the trees and light and sky reflected in the water.
These layers remind me of our minds and our consciousness, our awareness, where it has something like these layers, except that ordinarily since we're seeing with it, we cannot observe it.
It takes time to learn to see. And there are endless forms of seeing.
The wind is moving the trees above the water. They're swaying and dancing in the breeze.
But the wind also moves their moving reflection on the surface of the water, transforming it in liquid light.
Endless ripples meet other ripples and form mores, but sometimes flash with little prismatic rainbow light. So beautiful. So perfect. Absolutely true.
The reflections of the trees in the water are an aspect of the truth of the living trees above it.
The other day, in a different pond, I saw a night heron standing on a rock. And I approached very slowly. It was quiet. It was evening.
And I knelt down by the side of the pond and saw the turtles peeking at me, their heads like little points in the water.
And when I looked at the night heron on its rock, it's a bird I've rarely seen. It's very beautiful.
That was some good Tai Chi, was that you?
Yes, thank you. It's a wonderful place.
When I saw the bird on the rock, and this is something I'm deeply familiar with, so though it wasn't new to me, I always find it mystically charged.
In the surface world, there's the physical bird and the rock. But in the water world, right beneath it is its shimmering reflection upside down.
It reminds me of everything at once. But it reminds me of the relationship between our waking minds and our dreaming awareness.
Of course, those who know me know I think we're quite confused about which has true primacy, because it seems to us that our waking lives are factually real.
And our dreaming lives are like figments, not real.
But I often think and feel and sometimes even know. It's the other way around.
It all depends on your purpose in looking. What is seen depends on one's purpose in focusing one's attention somewhere.
If we go looking to find that the waking world is the physical fact and the dreaming world imaginary or a figment, then this is what we find, unsurprisingly.
But if we ask ourselves questions about the origins of our waking minds, we may find they lie in dreaming.
And so the waking world and the waking mind becomes a figment of the dreaming minds, storms and beauties, ecstasies and terrors, losses and explorations.
When I see reflections in the waters, I think of this often.
Particularly the incredible reflection that I actually think of as a road, our dreaming minds could easily travel, but our waking minds have no idea what to do with this road.
When the sun is setting on the western ocean and there's a path of light shining on the water, like the wedding ring of heaven and earth.
And some have traveled this road. It leads to the impossible. And most of the impossible is most of what is true.
It's funny when I began recording today I had ideas in mind. Ideas about what to talk about.
But when I'm at the moon pool, I'm always half enchanted. And it's almost like I begin to dream while I'm awake.
And then my ideas so seemingly solid a moment before. Warp and warble, become fluffy and web-like. And often they dissolve.
So perhaps I'll pause a moment here and see if I can recollect my path.
It's funny that word, recollection is recollection. Representation is re-presentation.
The living world is not a presentation. It's something stranger that presentations are like overstructured derivations of.
Structured to be alive. Though there's different ways to use the word and different meanings we can mean with words. These ones included.
So I'll pause for a moment and see what I can recollect about my purpose when I began.
Ah yes, now I remember. This word is also interesting.
It is said by some that some experiences, some of the deeply visionary and profound experiences that may be associated with someone acquiring the traveling seeing way
that we sometimes refer to as shamanism or shamanism. A word I'm deeply mistrustful of in the modern context, but whose essence I have some familiarity with.
There's often a crisis in the beginning of the path where the one undergoing it in whom their entire people is alive, maybe all beings are alive,
undergoes some kind of dismemberment. They are chopped into bits, cut apart, cut into parts.
And then after more suffering and trial, they are sewn back together.
And I don't know who does the sewing and who it is that is sewn, but this word remembering to be remembered reminds me of this process of having one's disparate pieces rejoined.
And this is the idea that underlies religion, rejoining. That word re-ligion is like to join the ligaments back together.
So that the original intent long before we were so confused, as we are mostly today, if I use the word we very casually and generally.
But the original idea was a kind of remembering, rejoining. Having been cut apart from communion and unity into seemingly, and this is the important word, seemingly separate existence.
We can undergo processes that re-establish the communion in the very cup of all our seeming separateness.
And what a beautiful idea. And what a comforting idea in its way.
Because if we understand the nature of communion, of fundamental unity, and there are stranger things than mere unity or mere separation.
But if we understand and think for a moment about the nature of unity, then what a miracle it becomes.
This embodied world of seemingly separate beings on one side of the reflection, completely unified in the surface of the water, in the reflection, in the dreaming.
And if I were a vast and brilliant unity, perhaps like a cloud that makes rain and lightning, I would become many separate, any seemingly separate little droplets of apparently distinguished
unities, holes. And that word is so funny because there's the W word, you know, W-H-O-L-E, the hole, the unity, my body, for example.
But then there's also the idea that the seemingly separate hole is a hole, an H-O-L-E, in the unity where some kind of magic is taking place.
But if I were a grand and brilliant unity, I might distinguish myself into trillions of forms and beings and stars and worlds and time space and all the mysterious secret things we have no words for.
Because in that dimension of seeming distinction, the fundamental unity would take on new forms and there would be new possibilities for learning and purpose, purpose of existence.
But in the brilliant unity, cannot be found, cannot exist.
And wouldn't it be ironic if the great dream of all that stands between us, all that distinguishes us one from another, is a new and more beautiful form of union?
Reunion, recollection, remembering.
For in a vast and brilliant unity, a unity with no outside, it's not clear how there could be growth and learning and purpose.
But in our world of seemingly separated beings and times and places and moments, circumstances and situations, the great primordial unity is dancing in its own dreaming.
In the endless forms of reflections, that the physical world can be understood, not to represent, but to embody.
To bring to life in forms that seem subject to time, at least superficially.
Forms that arise come to life, adventure, suffer, learn, explore, triumph, and then fade away again.
Each with separate temporalities and heartbeats and yet, like musicians in a symphony forming an astonishing music.
But it's not the music of sound, but the music of beings.
Arising, remembering, departing in waves and ripples and mores, like those on the surfaces of the water.
When I began today, my recording, I was thinking a bit about coincidence.
And all the peculiar and fascinating aspects of this idea.
Yesterday, I was reading in the beginning of Tristan Gully's book on how to read signs in nature.
He's a bit of a detective, well, more than a bit. He's an excellent detective, skillful detective.
And he's good at the kind of semi-Holmesian inductions that were mistakenly called deduction, apparently.
And he was telling a story about a situation in which a boy awoke in the night, heard his brother scream, tried to run into the other room, but the other room was missing.
It had been sucked into a vast sinkhole in the ground, and his brother perished and was never found.
And he nearly perished, trying to chase him down that hole.
And then Tristan wrote, those of us with some understanding of geology will hear a story like this and think, limestone, for limestone can create the situation over time.
And I was reading and I thought, well, other things can create it too in the cities.
An underground water main or sewer pipe can leak over time and slowly suck away the structure above it.
Creating a sinkhole.
But I thought to myself, well, this doesn't happen here.
And while I was reading, I was preparing for a walk up my street into the steep, paved hills above my house where many mansions are.
And these are houses worth millions of dollars, and it's strangely silent up there.
It's kind of funny, you know, if I make a left turn out my door, up the hills I go into the strangely silent place of mansions and wealthy people.
If I make a right turn out my door, then soon I'm among shops and restaurants and throngs of people.
And I think of the left side of my body as the dreaming side sometimes.
That's the only way to think.
And the right side is the waking side, which surely seems to dominate.
In any case, I walked up my street, half a block, and then I noticed that in the path I intended to take, it had been blocked off.
There were people from the city in their cars with flashing lights, and they erected a makeshift barrier so people couldn't drive further up that street.
But I walked up the street, and about another half block up the street, low and behold, there was a giant,
sinkhole of all things.
Probably 30 feet across, and who knows how deep I didn't look in it.
What a strange coincidence.
And later in the night I was speaking with my friend, Ryan Firstdiver, and we were talking briefly about the phenological event of the emergence of the robber flies.
And these are predatory flies that eat other insects like gnats and mosquitoes and other small insects.
And I had seen a swarm of them a couple days before, which I have never seen before.
I've never seen a swarm of robber flies.
It wasn't huge, maybe 50 or 60 insects.
As I told this story to my friend Ryan at night, I looked down by my foot, and there was a robber fly, right as I was telling the story.
There are all different kinds of coincidence, and I suppose that in my own thinking, which isn't always trustworthy, I divide them into various categories.
Now I have experienced meaningful coincidences, and what we might call telephone telepathy, where I know just before someone who I'm in some way deeply involved with, and it can even be through work.
I just get the sense, ah, this person is going to call me now, and then they call.
And there's all kinds of arguments in science against this.
One of them is, in our evaluations, we don't count the times when it failed.
We don't count the times when we felt, oh, someone so and so will call me and they didn't.
But I think that's a very humble argument to put it mildly, and a confused argument.
And it's quite clear to me that I've had, you know, regardless of how many times something failed, and I'm not sure there were a lot of them.
It's very clear that I've had experiences like this.
I recall one in particular where I was sitting in meditation in my room, facing away from my computer.
And as I was meditating, a particular person kept coming to mind, and I would relax back into the meditative state,
and then, you know, thoughts of this person and images of this person would appear.
And I had not heard from them in quite some time.
And when I was finished meditating, I turned around and that person had messaged me while I was meditating.
I remember another time when I was quite young, and I had come back to my father's home after being a runaway,
and my best friend, Rich Verone, a musician, a brilliant musician, we hadn't spoken in some months.
Back then, there was no electronic world, no computers, no internet.
And I was in my room, my father was in the doorway, and I heard the phone ring, and I said,
it's Rich.
And my dad went to answer the phone, and he said, Darren, come here.
You were right, it's Rich.
It would be hard to dismiss something like that with any argument.
It's very difficult to prove there's no extraordinary connection there.
In fact, I think that would be an impossible task, though it's easy to form logical arguments that appear to refute things
that neither logic nor rationality can properly encompass.
These are different experiences than what I mean by coincidence.
As you can see, these are more like experiences of remembering,
of being reunified in the world of seeming separations.
Whereas the sinkhole and the robber fly, we're a bit more like what we think of when we think of coincidences.
And since Jung wrote his book, we have this word we use sometimes, some of us, synchronicity.
And this idea has been captured by cults of Wu and so on.
And even Jung himself, in writing his theory, he had gravely misunderstood Wolfgang Pauli,
the physicist who he had agreed to treat in return for education about physics.
And I think there's something about Pauli's exclusion principle involved here,
but I'm not educated enough to remark on that.
Pauli was quite upset with him and tried to get him to see that he had misunderstood what Pauli tried to teach him.
Yet, there's more to the story than the surface and its arguments by far.
And there's another kind of event which isn't precisely a coincidence or even a synchronicity.
And yet, it signals a transformation in the nature of consciousness, awareness, and our life path.
Sometimes a miracle happens, something that truly should be impossible.
I've experienced a few of these.
A simple one was the presage to huge transformation in my consciousness and life.
You probably know how the top of a beer bottle is wrinkled,
and we use a bottle opener or some other tool to pop that top off a beer bottle.
And one afternoon I popped the top off a beer bottle with an ah-so,
a particular instrument used to both pull the cork from wine,
and most of them have a little blade inside a long oval that we can use to pop the top off of a bottle, too.
And I popped the top off the beer bottle,
and the top flew off,
but it did something impossible for me to understand or even imagine.
It stuck to the side of the glass bottle,
perfectly horizontal, upside down,
with a tiny piece of one of the wrinkles touching the glass,
and it just stayed there, suspended against the side of the wet glass, perfectly horizontal.
And it stayed like that for an hour,
and the whole thing was entirely impossible.
If someone had attempted to glue the top to the bottle in that way,
it would have failed, right?
And yet there it was before me,
and I marveled at it.
And there were consecutive little miracles
before a great storm changed my life and mine,
came within me.
And that's not a coincidence,
and it's not really a synchronicity.
Now I have some other words I've coined
to talk about how in consciousness
we can become very confused about associations between events we notice.
And there's a propensity for this, I think it's called apophenia,
where in consciousness we feel somehow the universe is speaking to us
through some phenomenon we notice,
but our attention is drawn to.
And there are dangers here,
because there's a difference,
where there are many differences
in different kinds of phenomenal experience and awareness,
and the form of our mind
cleaves to these things
until they seem to stand out as messages.
The universe is speaking to me.
Tell me something.
And sometimes this is reasonable, not reasonable,
sometimes we can feel the deep authenticity of it
in a way that evades all the traps and confusions of consciousness,
and the message just gets through to us in some way.
And these experiences I think of as authentic.
And some are overlooked.
Some don't really break through the cloud bank
of our common, habitual, everyday thought and concern and habit.
But sometimes they do.
Sometimes there is a message.
Sometimes I don't know who is communicating with who precisely.
And there are myriads of ways that such communication
may be taking place.
But then there's the other side of that, the problem,
where we're really experiencing something
in which the manifold of mind has become perhaps distorted.
And there's plenty of evidence of, you know,
what we might think of as ear sats' synchronicity.
I'll speak more about that in a moment,
but as I'm making this recording,
I'm in the garden.
And it's a blustery gray day here.
And I often observe or have a relationship with various birds and animals here.
And one of the pairs of animals that I've observed for a long, long time,
they've taught me all kinds of things.
But today, I saw the male take what is referred to as a forest strawberry.
And I've never seen him do that before.
And he very clearly showed me,
and I think I'll have one of these right now.
And then, a few moments later,
I saw in a different place in the garden,
that the female was eating the same berry at the same time.
Now, this is a meaningful coincidence
because these animals know me well,
and they were clearly, especially the male who I was close to when he picked it up,
they were showing me something.
They often show me things about what they like to eat,
and they eat different things at different times.
But I've never seen them eat these before,
and I wasn't really sure if they liked fruit,
and I was curious if they might.
So now I know there are some fruits they like.
And there are many old parables and stories
about the corvids and their bright red berries.
And one day long ago in the storm I spoke of earlier,
a group of ravens showed me a game they liked to play,
together with a bright red berry.
And the game was very beautiful and rich with intelligence and teaching power,
though I'll not describe it here.
And when they were done, most of them left,
but one of them stayed,
and it sort of gently harassed me until it wasn't trying to scare me away,
it was trying to get me to do something.
First I couldn't figure out what,
but then it became clear that it wanted me to take the berry with me,
so I did.
Now in our modern consciousness and in the confused labyrinths of our waking thought,
we can easily become kind of hypnotized by the possibility of coincidences.
So you'll see people posting online, sort of, I think,
I mean I find it a little bit tragic myself,
but it depends on how I'm thinking about it.
You'll see them post, you know,
111 as though they're saying something deeply profound about the universe,
or, you know, 333.
I think this is mostly very confused.
And I've coined some terms about this kind of confusion.
Two in particular.
One of them is synchromisticism,
which is a term that for me has a variety of negative connotations.
And perhaps an even more extreme example is what I'd call synchrophrenia.
It's like a form of schizophrenia in which seeming connections
between disparate events, ideas, parts of language, words, times,
become mixed up in a swarming miasma of coincidence,
seeming coincidence, implied coincidence, possible coincidence.
And I've known people's minds who are nearly ruined,
if not completely destroyed by the constant intrusion
into consciousness of this problem.
But as I said, there are meaningful forms of coincidence,
and there are confused derivations of coincidence,
and there are meaningful forms of something that might resemble
what we could call synchronicity as well.
But there are also shadows in consciousness of something similar
that has more to do with the peculiar deformation of the manifold of mind
than it does with any meaningful message
that we encounter in the world or in phenomena.
And all of these things fascinate me, and I'm very curious about them.
And I'm relatively open-minded, though most of the time I feel
I can sense the difference between something authentic
and worthy of careful attention
and something that is more like a kind of confused feedback effect
of consciousness, more like the forms of apophenia
that are indicative of a specific flavor of frame collapse in awareness.
And many of the people who experience this feel deeply compelled by this experience
and gravely misunderstood by other people.
They feel they can see an invisible world that no one else will admit
and everyone wants to dismiss.
And surely there are occasions where there's something to that.
And in fact, because we each live in the world
in a kind of very special local array of bubbles
in time and thought, relation and history, memory, cognition, language, knowledge, habit.
It may well be in some cases that they are actually seeing something
which, if we were capable of it, we would acknowledge is meaningful.
However, they suffer from a similar problem that we have in dealing with this
and working with this, which is they are so trapped
in the apophonic fury of their consciousness
that they can't see the intrusion of their own purposes and concerns.
And often in these coincidences they sense there is a kind of secret language
in which a kernel of something very important is held or presented.
Ordinarily they cannot see this kernel because it lies very deep in the storm of their mind
and it's often something simple
and it can have to do with a mode of psychological projection
where things that are important and near at hand,
near to the person's heart and life and psychology,
are overlooked continuously over many years perhaps
and then they are expressed in relatively extreme apophonic urgencies.
And so sometimes with such people or with such situations
there is something important to pay attention to, there is a message,
but it's not a secret message from the mystical universe.
It's a message from the person's psyche.
It's as if they've been trying to say something important their whole lives
and were never able to express it or to formulate it in consciousness
so it became like a kind of myth or fairy tale
that imposed its structure on their awareness in such a way
that their awareness constantly collapses into representations of the hidden secret thing
they've never been able to say.
I knew someone and I've seen this before
who was obsessed with another person
and the person I knew who was having this problem
saw in every gesture of the person they were obsessed with online and so on
messages meant only for them
and they believed that the person was sending these messages on purpose
and then denying it when they inquired about it
and the person suffering from this kind of frame collapse was in agony
and they truly believed that what was happening to them was magical
and that everyone was sort of conspiring against this magic in denying it
when that person could not see that it was impossible what they believed
and no one could be so skillful as to carry out such an agenda
and I knew the person they were obsessed with
and they had no such intention
and that's a kind of synchrophrenia
where the whole form of consciousness has collapsed toward one bizarre impossible conspiracy
and there's at once evident here a grave insecurity
the person seeing what they thought was this magical subtle language
was profoundly insecure
and at the same time there's a side-wise kind of projection of megalomaniacal importance
I am the most important one
I am the only one who sees the magic truth behind all the little connections
that everyone else denies yet I am certain are there
and this makes of that person both a victim and an earsat's hero
so you can see how fraught this kind of mind is
how divided against itself and the world and experience and interpretation
our minds can become under some peculiar circumstances
of birth or life path, history or habit, illness or well-being
and sometimes when I can feel what I might call my soul
when my awareness is subtle and intimate
there is this kind of a meaningful underlying language
but again this is a dangerous idea
because it's shadow can destroy one's mind and life entirely
it's just like the idea of value
but similar to the idea of value as opposed to the reification of value that money represents
it's kind of a similar thing
the representation is relatively toxic
its origins are essential
I don't understand all these things
there's no simple explanation
but it's clear to me at once both things
that our minds can collapse into self-structuring deformations
where everything becomes a message but then all messages are lost in noise
and the much more subtle and more intelligent sensitivity
to signals and relationships around us
that are rich with intelligence, creative recognition, reunion, communion
discovery, rich deep awareness
had my head been turned just slightly differently
I couldn't have noticed that both birds were eating the red berry at the same time
in different parts of the garden
and they were vocalizing gently
so maybe they were having a conversation in a way
I'm not sure
sometime very recently in the past day or so
listening or perhaps reading
something about the magical importance of red things
and this is familiar to me
not unfamiliar at all
oh yes, it was last night in a conversation
my friend West
he was talking about one of his teachers
who had spoken to him at length
of the importance of the
I don't need a masqueria mushroom
in ancient Irish juridic traditions
and the man said something very profound
that inclines me to trust him
you know, he talked at length about the mushroom
color and associations and ceremony
literature and ritual
and then he talked about how it could be prepared
but then he said something quite uncommon
and very wise
he said, the mushroom is dangerous
but you don't have to eat it
if you want to understand something about it
spend time with it
just spend time with the mushroom
you don't have to eat it
maybe you could sleep with one
under your pillow or on your chest
he said
I thought that was really brilliant
because it matches my own experience
I once had a peyote cactus
but I didn't have it because I wanted to eat it
I had it because I wanted to have a relationship with it
and it was a beautiful relationship
then one time I made a mistake
and water did a little bit in the winter
and it died
but while it was alive it taught me things
in dreaming
it would show up in my dreaming
not exactly as a cactus
as a being
sort of a cactus being
and that was no mere coincidence
that was the result of using my intent
and the willingness of the plant
to relate with me
and this is the funny thing, you know
the humans, most of them, they don't believe
the trees and animals and plants
are communicating
meaningfully
and they think this because they don't hear the sound of their words
but
even though some of them can make vocalizations
I'm going to pause for the siren to pass
I'm not really trying to convince anyone of anything
but wouldn't it be nice
if we could remember
how to participate in the living library of minds
that our paradisical world is the embodiment of
wouldn't that be wonderful
in our modernity and meshed in all of our products
and technologies and machines
electronics
there's so much noise
that our subtle faculties are overwhelmed
and often become shy and hide themselves away
but in dreaming
then
the strange silence of sleep
becomes a buffer
and many of our faculties
that are otherwise inhibited
or hide themselves while we're awake
emerge to play
in the field of our dreaming
and I think it's beautiful
and I revere it
all the grasses and plants
dancing in the breeze
and it is beautiful
and I revere it
