Hello everybody. Welcome. I am out of my mind with excitement right now. I have
been having some a staggering array of insights while in conversation with a
new friend. So maybe I should tell some backstories. So one of my Facebook
friends who I never really had any conversation with, maybe a few weeks ago
I saw some kind of note in the news feed that implied this person who I really
don't know was adjusting to a new set of circumstances that were really
challenging. And so I reached out to her after seeing on her Facebook page that
she was sitting, she was in her car at a traffic light at a red light, went out of
the blue, someone plowed into the back of her car, severed her spinal cord, she's
been paralyzed since then.
And this situation has resonance with certain features of my own history that
I will not hear detail. So I reached out to her and I think she was naturally
suspicious as it is wise for women to be generally. Although you know in the
Facebook situation people can see something of who I am by looking at my
wall and so they can, you know, they've got more information than me just being
like a random person. So we had our first conversation today and wow.
She gave me permission to use her name so her name's Amber Bourne, like it sounds.
And she asked me why I reached out to her and essentially I said that, I mean it's
complicated. The question of why did, why did you do something? Okay. And lots of
other questions are similar, pose a similar problem but before I get started
here I want to talk about this problem in language because
we are trained and we train our children to think that we do things and events occur for reasons.
I just had some birds in my hand there. It's pretty amazing how wild birds on your fingers.
So this is the result of having been subjected to the concept of courtrooms. And I'm not saying
that nothing in existence resembles courtrooms. There are things that do apparently features
situations. But our interiority doesn't resemble a courtroom. Our minds, our souls, our ca, our
ba, the seven features of spirit, the Egyptians enumerated and had different names for. They
don't resemble a courtroom, though one of them apparently is often subject to something
resembling a courtroom at death if we take the image of our heart's weight being compared
to a feather by some kind of an angelic being or an archon. I can't remember who does the
measuring, isn't it? Is it the ibis headed being? I can't remember. I'm so filled. Alright,
so once when I was a kid my father became very angry with me because I'd eaten some cookies
that were in the, what do they call that cabinet in the kitchen? I can't remember. I'd eaten
some cookies that were in there and he came home. I didn't eat all of them, but I ate
some of them, you know. And he came home and the courtroom scene ensued where he started
yelling at me, why did you eat these cookies? And I said, I don't know. And he said, you're
lying. And he's, you know, it was his intention to assert the fact that I had eaten the cookies
to subvert his authority. I had eaten the cookies because he told me not to. And so
I was essentially just fucking with him. I ate the cookies to fuck with my father because he
told me not to. To contravene his authority to rebel. And so my eating of the cookies in his
mind was an intentional act of rebellion. There was no fucking chance of that being true. Later,
there might be occasionally, I mean, I don't even know. My father always had this idea that my,
when I misbehaved quote unquote, that I was doing it in order to fuck with him or to rebel
against him or something like this in some weird, Christianic courtroom version of reality in which
my motivations to act were based on my ability or my desire to contravene his authority. Never,
I don't think ever, I ever do anything like that. Even when I became rebellious, I still could never
be fundamentally motivated to disobey my father. I would disobey him because I had a desire for
something. But my point is when someone asks me, there was a sort of a relational hiccup in another
one of my relationships recently. And when we reestablished contact, the other person asked me
why did we have this hiccup? Why did this happen? Why did you do this? Why did I do what I did?
And I gave some, I orbited the situation in speech and said, well, there was this,
there was this, there was this. And the other person said, yes, yes, but why? And then I explained
that the certain kinds of questions that lead to a courtroom situation in consciousness,
where a miasma, right, a sort of roiling cloud of qualities and situational variables and so on,
we will task ourselves with making derivations over the cloud, right, reduce, we're going to
measure the quantum superposition of intent. And we're going to collapse it down to two or three
things. Well, I did it because of this, I felt this way, I thought blah, blah, blah. You know,
that's not actually how human interiority works, at least it isn't how my interiority is at all.
So when someone asks me why I did something, sometimes I can respond, especially if the context
is simple. Why did you unlock your mailbox? I was hoping to see if there was mail in there.
That's reasonably true. But if they say, for example, if they say, why did you run away? Or
why did you approach me? Why have you come? That's going to be a lot more complicated. It's not
like there's nothing I can say. But it's also like the expectation of explicit derivatives is
deceptively misfounded. It's not what's really going on. There's an elderly man who walks around
the lake and he may have had a stroke. He has two canes. He's probably in his 70s.
There's a couple of Stella's Jays here. One of them just came to my hand and then the child,
the child I think came, probably a young male. Looks like he's molting and he came and made a
request because he, interesting. Oh man, the guy just walked past me, an elderly Chinese man,
was wearing a shirt, said, change before you have to. Wow, what a message. Might be the best
message I've ever seen on a shirt. Anyway, there's this elderly man who walks around the
lake with a couple of canes and I noticed him earlier. I've seen him many times before. He looks
like he was in really good physical shape and perhaps he had a stroke or I'm not sure. I may
one day be like him, maybe much sooner than I think because when we get older, stuff that was
super easy when we were young suddenly becomes like a life or death challenge. I realized that as
he was sort of tottering along with his double canes and occasionally blowing a little breath out
like he's really working this. I realized that a walk around the lake at a certain age, a walk
around the lake is like running, you know, a hundred mile marathon or something, right?
And we should honor where each unique being is at in their place. We should honor that and have
awareness about that and have compassion and pay attention, right? Wake up, become present.
When we see others struggling or if we see them confused,
the urged judgment is almost always misguided and we make fun of things, you know.
I'm going to go ahead and make fun of something real please. So, you know, there's all this hoopla
about the photograph on the internet, right? There's all this hoopla about the photograph that
some people have decided
is
meant to be sort of thumbing our noses at the at the painting of the Last Supper
and so then too of Christianity and so forth. And then other people are like,
look, this is Bacchanalia. What are you guys freaking out about?
You know, and so when I get home, I'm going to make a meme with that picture
and it's going to be, it's going to say on the meme, France to the Christians. I bet you think,
you're so vain, I bet you think the song is about you.
We do sometimes make fun, but in this case, we're making fun of like a whole cohort
of humans determined to get butt hurt about something that
A, doesn't actually matter, especially in this time when so many things that do matter
need our attention and care and concern. And B, wasn't actually intended as an affront to anyone.
You took offense, okay, you're projecting. Basically, you're making a, you know,
it's that Jungian thing. Every,
every criticism is a projection. You criticize because you feel the resonance
of your own vulnerabilities or your own misdeeds or your own mistakes or your own so on and so forth.
It's very profound, but yeah, this why thing. So my friend asked me why I reached out to her
and I tried to explain. I was like, well, I can say some things about this that are,
that I trust, but I don't know. It's like what I said to my father when I ate the cookies. I don't
know why I ate the cookies. I didn't have a reason. I didn't sit there thinking, I will eat these
cookies because of thus, right? I wasn't like a God in my chamber inventing reasons and eating cookies
the way my father's supposed to. He was furious with me. You know, it was, it was like I had
really violated some fundamental principle of ethics here. And this required very severe treatment
and punishment and so forth. I mean, eventually, most of the time when this happened, I would
just start crying and then he would attack me further and be like, I'll give you something to
cry about. No, don't think I had a terrible father. I loved my dad. He was an amazing man.
But, but he also had to learn how to be a father. You don't start out knowing how to do this and he
grew up in Brooklyn where he had to be tough. And you know, he was actually an extremely sensitive
kid who had to become a tough guy and his brother sort of beat it into him as a kid. You know,
he was like, you can fight those other guys, or I'll fight you at home and I'll fuck you up.
This kind of thing. Wow.
Wow.
One thing I love about being here in San Francisco is that people come from many other countries.
People are speaking like Nordic. I don't even know Danish. What are they speaking?
It's a little family. So beautiful. So, um, no, my dad was a good man. But he thought,
he thought that I was going to have to grow up in a world similar to the one he grew up and he
had no idea what California was actually about. When he brought, he came here to escape what was
going on in Brooklyn and he had escaped it. He just didn't believe that he'd escaped it. So he
expected we were going to have to, he's going to have to make me a tough guy. Otherwise, I'd be
victimized, which really didn't turn out to be the case. And in fact, the things that were actually
dangerous to me were things he'd never have possibly imagined to be dangerous. Lesbian cops.
This would turn out to be really fucking dangerous to me.
Weirdly. In any case, or rather a particular, a particular police woman
who would threaten my life because I was a man and she was capable of doing so while wearing a gun.
In any case, this why thing, why did you do it? You know, why did that cop,
Elaine Economist, why did she tell me she was going to take me out in the field and make me
disappear when I hadn't even done anything at all? Nor had she been told that I had done anything.
She just took a dislike to me, apparently based on my gender.
You know, it's not super common that we get, well, maybe that's not entirely true.
There's a lot of risk to being born male.
And every once in a while, and it's not that uncommon, we can be, you know, we get ruined,
us boys. Not usually by butch police women, but it does happen.
We get nailed to trees and stuff. In any case, so when people ask you why you did something,
pause for a moment and say, are you sure? Like, first of all, I'm not entirely, if you're not
sure why you did something. If it's a complex array of reasons, just say like, wow, it's really
a complex thing and I can't just reduce it to one answer. And if I try to do that, what's
going to happen? We're going to believe that answer? Because that's not how things actually
go if there's any kind of complexity. If the question's more significant than why did I unlock
my door or something, why did I take a shower? There are certain things for which there's simple
answers about why. But it's a terrifying mistake to transfer that simplicity to all other phenomenon
and expect because language primes us for this expectation to think that, oh, everything's like
that. You can tell, you can say why you did something. We tell this, you know, we teach this
children and that's wrong. Just wrong. The children are not sitting there most of the time. They're
not sitting there trying to, you know, cooking up reasons in thought and then executing actions.
It's not what they're up to. So I said to my friend, well, you know, your situation reminded me of
situations I'd been in and I realize and honor how challenging your situation is.
And I think that you can help me see better and maybe, you know, you can decide about this for
yourself, but maybe I can help you see better. So what I'm hoping is that we can together,
we can both see better together. And it's perfectly reasonable for her to inquire into my motivations.
In my view, anyway. And there were a number of exchanges between us before we actually had the
conversation that we've just had. Now, this isn't impromptu talk. I'm recording this because I'm
so inspired by what I've just been through with my new friend, Amber,
who was paralyzed in November, the end of November last year,
through no fault of her own that I can understand.
And when something like this happens, and something like this has happened to me
previously too, I've been, I know what it's like to be catastrophically injured or deprived of
my mobility, have my body one side of my body torn away from the other side of my body. I know
what this is about. Not in exactly the same way she does, but it's familiar. So
we started talking, and eventually the conversation turned to topics about incarnation.
And divine beings. And even, yes, UFOs and the relationship between
these topics, angels and UFOs and incarnation and so forth.
And she told me that, this is so primordially profound, she said,
you know, when I was 18, I got my first tattoo.
And it was an angel with its face in its hands, weeping,
saying, where is my mind? Where has my mind gone?
So beautiful, this figure, so perfect.
Now, I want you to imagine for a moment
what a person, let us say a woman, in this case, who once was a sighted person, but is now a blind
person. What could such a woman teach you about seeing? So you go to a class,
you're going to take, you're going to go to a workshop, a series of workshops,
with five blind women. And they're going to teach you what to do with your eyes.
Follow, get the idea here. Because you might think that blind women wouldn't have anything to say,
and I'm going to call these people formerly sighted.
Like the artist formerly referred to as prince, formerly sighted humans, women.
And they're going to, they've gotten together and they've worked out what they can teach you
about seeing that as a sighted person, you will never discover. Would you sign up for that class?
I would be all over that, all over it. And so what could people
who have suffered catastrophic disembodiment, paralysis,
loss of the ability to walk, what could they teach us about embodiment,
about Soma? Yeah, there's all kinds of beautiful human beings that are actually beautiful people
who practice somatic awareness and somatic reintegration and teach each other how to come
back into the body in our strain, you know, our modern estrangement from the Soma, from the body,
if indeed Soma means body. But what they, it means like visceral awareness of the viscera.
So my friend Amber was,
you know, she feels that she's trying to figure out why this has happened.
And the problem is that if you suffer some catastrophic loss,
I'm going to hear a little bit of Amon Hillman and me here.
For some reason, I seem to be channeling Amon's prosody. If you suffer some catastrophic loss,
then what are you going to do in the lee of the catastrophe, the disaster falling of the stars?
Disaster means the stars are falling down.
To the earth, the heavens crashing downwards. What are you going to do?
You're going to try to think why it happened? No.
I mean, sometimes that's useful. That's not always a bad move, but in most cases,
there are a lot of better moves on the table.
Like what to do with the situation that you have now, right? How does what has happened
transform your ability to live into the new situation?
But there's so much here that is crazy amazing. So I talked about with Amber
my experience with what I refer to as toy maker. And those of you who know me
know that this was a foundational experience in my life.
My adult life, my 39th year, I'm now 60. So it's a long time ago now. But it seems.
But the implication that the ancients, to the ancients, the gods were not ideas.
They weren't concepts. They were our symbionts. We were their bodies and they were our minds.
And nobody has said this directly enough.
Now later, okay, it gets weirder than this because Amber's tattoo, and I haven't seen it yet. She said
she'd send me a picture of it. But it's a tattoo of something that looks like an alien with angel
wings. And it's crying into its hands and saying, where is my mind? But or maybe it's saying,
where is my body? Because what she means, she thinks of the mind as the body.
Watching some fighters practicing.
It's very interesting. The old man, he's bent over, but he's fierce. And he's teaching them
how to actually fight, not like fucking around.
I just want to see this.
Hmm. It's good. He knows what he's up to.
All right. So, you know, I talked about, we talked about the problem. She and I talked about the
problem of language and why humans are so bound up in representational cognition. And it's because
a long time ago, the umbilicus between our people and the sky intelligences broke.
And we were their bodies and they were our minds, right? And then we forged individual minds and we
forged minds down here. But one of the things that happened when that umbilicus broke, which,
you know, resembles the problem in Amber's life where her spinal cord broke when she was struck
from behind by that car who was probably on his fucking cell phone, right? Who knows what caused
that, but 90% chance it was a electronic device that the person was paying attention to instead of
driving. And, you know, that guy probably walked away fine. Amber can't walk. So, just a guess.
Don't know the answer. So, that severance of her spinal cord, right? Her legs
is like the severance of the body from the angels, so to speak. The transcendent sky intelligences that
live in the substrate from which time space and matter emerges. Yeah. Emerging moment to moment
emerging. E, energy, energetic emergence, right? So, when that umbilicus broke, we started making
prostheses. We started, we had fire and wheels and gears and chemistry and mechanisms.
We started making machines, mock eyes in energy systems, machines.
Fake angels. In Ezekiel, those, those eyes around the wheels, those are
he's seeing angels. And by the way, Ezekiel's happening post-cataclysm, post-disaster.
The umbilicus has been broken, right? The humans and the gods are no longer together.
And what the gods are isn't the important question.
It's what's the relationship between the humans and the gods. And the relationship is
they were our uplift parents in David Brinian terminology, right? The uplift war. In his stories,
all each intelligent species has a specific uplift parent that they serve for a time,
post-uplift, meaning they go from being animals to being uh, tool-making representational
cognitives, capable of eventual space flight and so on. But in Brin's story, the uplift parents of
the humans remains unknown. There's a candidate, there's a candidate species. They're elvish.
There are these uh beings called the thimbreme. And they have uh antennas, right? They like praying
mantises except they're, they're human-like. Um, they look similar to humans. They have antenna,
antennae, and they're called thimbreme. And what I'm trying to say, so the amazing insight that
I never had before today that I just need to record and celebrate here with you right now,
is that I understood that the humans went insane when the umbilicus between, when the
accident happened, and I think it was an accident. There was some kind of tragic catastrophe
that broke the umbilicus between us and the sky mines, the star mines, time, space,
beings like toy maker. When that umbilicus snapped, our species went insane. We didn't know what to be.
We couldn't figure out what to be. So one of the things we became was just more, right? Killing
each other. And what were we killing each other over? Stuff, matter, matters, ideas, gods, right?
Especially in the Bible, you see people slaughtering each other about which of the Elohim shall we be
obeying, right? Which of these gods shall we be obeying? From one perspective, right? From a
mnostic perspective where the Elohim are the sky being intelligences and so forth.
And Yahweh is just one of those intelligences rather than the intelligence.
Yeah, we slaughter each other. We kill the animals. We kill the children. We kill every,
not we, but you know, if you read the stories in the Bible about religious war and then you see
what the, you know, the crusades go around slaughtering the pagans and the witches and so forth.
The oracles obliterating them. Not only the prophets authorized by Yahweh are the right ones.
All right. And there is sort of a huge problem for any kind of thinking human being
or compassionate human being. When there's some god in the Bible that's like, I'm jealous,
slaughter the other beings, kill those gods, tear down those temples, except they don't tear down
the temples. They just take the, the effigy out of the temple and then they turn it into a church.
All right. So you can see like there's this weird Yahwistic
thread through modernity anyway, where
there's some kind of a authorization schema that tells the humans
to destroy all the humans that don't think and do and act just like you.
Fuck them up, obliterate them, destroy their whole historical line, rip those people from history.
And the, and the same thing with nature, right? That whole destroy, obliterate, stamp out.
It, it doesn't stop with the temples. It goes all the way to the forests and the oceans themselves
and the sky. And, you know, there is a long time ago this thing where
an angel that spins a sword in every direction, I know that angel personally,
I think, I have good reason to believe, guards the tree of life so that the humans cannot
take their wars to the sky. But here's the crazy. So here's where things start getting crazy.
I understood that the humans went nuts when the umbilicus broke and we lost,
because I think we were meant, our minds are our alpha symbionts for the sky intelligences.
But when they disappeared, our people went insane. And that's when we started having
religions and things like this, which are terrifying nonsense, right? Imagine the
difference between kisses and rape. This is the difference between the original symbiotic union
and religion. Yeah, consensual, joyful kisses and rape.
Oh my God, it's so brilliant. What these dogs do, the way they communicate.
One of the dogs is just completely lying down on the ground. And the other dog is approaching.
And then they meet and the one that is laying down. Yeah, that's incredible. Oh my God.
If the humans would just watch what the animals do, they could learn
the nature of the universe.
Only they understood.
They're using me as a tree.
They're both girls, yeah?
Yeah, they're both girls.
Primordial.
The communication is so physical between the dogs.
Right? But it's experimental. It's playful. It appears slightly violent, but violence
isn't its motivation or result. Intimacy is the result. Intimacy is the motivation.
And the violence leads to calm and trust and intimacy. It's really astonishing to
watch how this develops over the course of a few moments in the play of the dogs.
It's beautiful. Really amazing. So the humans were, okay, how to explain. All right, imagine
that our species is, we are the bees. Yeah. And the sky intelligences are the flowers
or both. We are the flowers to the bees they are. They collect the honey of us,
of our minds and our intelligence. They make the honey of our reproductive behavior, which we
ourselves do not understand. We do not understand our reproductive behavior. And they are the bees
to the flowers of us. And then the bees disappear and now we really don't understand. And so we
start making machines. And why are we making machines? We're making machines because we hope
the gods will come back. And the machines remind us of the gods. And they have the potential to
lift us back into space where we imagine we will encounter the gods, but they also have the potential
to so anger the spirit of balance in time space because of we make nuclear weapons. We obliterate
the oceans. We kill the children of the sky. We obliterate nature. Not because the humans want
to do this. Our species is broken. The individuals, none of them want this. It's the group level of
us doesn't know what the fuck to do without the gods. And people are like, oh, there are no gods.
It's just a story that we made up to bind us together. Bullshit. Are your parents a story you
made up to bind you together? The people that taught you language? Is that just a story in your mind?
Because if that doesn't happen and you're raised by wolves or whatever, you can't learn language
later. Those children, when they're brought into quote civilization, they die. They can't fucking
adjust. And similarly, when quote civilized people go and live with quote savages, they won't come
back to civilization for any fucking thing. A million dollars, a billion dollars, they don't care.
They throw that shit away. I don't care. I have to lose my soul to come live in that city.
I'm going to stay with these quote savages in the jungle or in the mountains or in the desert or in
the plains, right? Because why? Because the intimacy and the intelligence is alive there,
mythically alive. And wherever that intimacy and intelligence is alive, there's less of the disaster
and distinction. There's less of the loss of the gods, the sky beings, right? So what never occurred
to me though, was that the angels might have suffered a similar calamity. I thought, well,
when the, when the gods went away, when the sky being intelligence has went away, my people went
insane. And this is what I was taught by one of the sky beings, right? By a sky being, well,
maybe the sky being, who knows, it's complicated. The idea of distinction is different up there
than down here, by far, very, very different. In fact, how distinction is used in cognition,
in thinking, no, they don't even have cognition. What they have is some kind of transcendent thing.
It only distinguishes to unify. It never distinguishes and leaves it there,
like we do, especially in language.
Wow, learning so much right now. So, all right, it occurred, I understood, they showed me several
many, more than 20 different stories, 20 different ways of looking at what happened to the humans,
and why we went insane, and why we make machines, and why we have symbols instead of relationships,
and why we are representational cognitives, we dispose of relationships and environments to
produce tokens, words, concepts, commodities, machines, right, things we can trade, pennies.
We, we turn the beautiful origin of being into dead structure, and then we worship
the dead structure, as if it were our, our origin, or our purpose, right. And occasionally the sky,
you know, will crash down into the humans, and show them how stupid this is.
One such historic event in my life, it's a very complex event. Well, you can just think about
which one I mean. Two things went, two things came down on one day, and we'll just say that. So,
occasionally, right, the sky will intervene, and something from the sky will destroy
something on the earth that the humans are doing that is bad, is wrong. And there's lots of stories
about this from history, right, we have the biblical story where Sodom is obliterated by
something from the sky, for example, just to give an example of the trope. It's a trope.
So, it's a, it's a, a figure of, it's a metaphor, it's a metaphoric figure of speech,
but it's very important to understand, and getting hit in the head, or having one's head cut off,
are similar tropes, because what smacks into the earth hits her in the head.
And if something big smacks into the earth, the earth has a stroke, because her children die,
and she senses with those children. Children are like her, neurons, except they're very complex,
and alive, and they, they're multi-symbiotic, but, so the humans went nuts. They started making
weapons, and machines, and fire, and shit, wheels. But it never occurred to me that
the angels might have gone mad, too, because they lost their bodies. They lost their bodies.
They lost us. We lost them, but they also lost us. So, what did they do? Well, in one cartoon story,
they started making UFOs, right? In an attempt, right, we started making temples, and who knows
what? Pyramids, and pillars, sky things, human-made mountains, because the mountains are close to,
closest to the sky. That's where the earth and the sky touch. That's where the intimacy happens.
But so, too, the valleys, right? Because the valleys draw the sky down.
But yeah, what if the angels started making a way to interact, or even a way to interact
reproductively with the humans, so that they could have bodies, because we needed, we lost our mind,
we lost our minds, and they lost their bodies. So, they need bodies, and we need minds. And this
is why, perhaps, disclosure is on the fucking table right now. And the human, the structured,
civilized humans have no chance of understanding this. The military has no chance of understanding
this. None, zero. The religious people, no fucking chance of understanding this. What you need are
people who understand history. You need classicists. You need people like Amon Hillman. Yeah, people of
his ilk. Not Bible scholars. You need classicists. And you also need people who have had, oh my god,
the beauty. A Martin is here with me. Because I'm kicking up.
Yeah, yeah, sweetness. Oh my god, what beauty. Oh, like the Swallows, right? Because I'm kicking up
moths. And she knows.
Yeah, she knows. There's an old game between the Martins and the humans on the grass. You walk
across the grass, and the Martins, or the Swallows, they acrobatically fly along grass. See, she's all
around a mother and her child right now. They follow you because you kick up insects that they can
eat. And this is symbiosis, right? And it's not just about eating and killing, but this is symbiosis.
We have features that the sky beings need for their fulfillment the same way that flowers and
bees get together, right? Birds and the bees. And they have features that we need for our minds.
And without the corrective intelligence they can supply to our minds, we obliterate ourselves, right?
Oh, the beauty. The beauty of the swallow. She's so beautiful spinning around me.
Oh, yeah. You know, they'll play with you. If you follow them, they'll play with you. They'll
circle you. And eventually, if there's a few of them, one of them will come right past your face
and look you right in the eye, like a whale, or like a dragonfly, or like a butterfly, or like
like the sky itself, like origin, like the angels winking at you from afar in time space.
This is the nature of nature. It's not red in tooth and claw. It's sexual. It's intimacy.
It's everything beautiful about lifting each other up and preserving each other's lineages.
Together, safeguarding the history and the future of the beings and the minds of the
children and the mothers. That's what's going on. It's not war.
You know, yeah, there are factions that are so disoriented by being separated
that they've forgotten what intimacy is, what it means, right? They've forgotten what that means.
But what occurred to me today that never occurred to me before was that
the loss of the humans was a catastrophe for the angels, for the sky intelligences,
and that they had to do something too. We did something. We started making machines
and war and devices and things, unfortunately, terrifyingly, tragically, obliterating nature
in ourselves. And they started maybe making what we call UFOs. They started trying to find a new
way to have a body because we had been their bodies and they had been our minds.
And it was beautiful and it was amazing and we were fulfilled and they were fulfilled.
And we were intimate. We were intimate, transcendent, ecstatic beings together.
The same way the bees and the flowers are. Reproductive intimacy. And then the catastrophe.
The umbilicus broke, the spinal column snapped, nervous system, and we were separated. Something
separated us and the humans went mad and some of the angels went mad and some of the angels tried to
make a way to heal the ancient disaster. And that's what I saw with my friend Amber.
And that's what is blowing my mind so much right now. It never occurred to me that the angels
might have been impoverished by what happened because we were one of the organs of their
body mind and they were the origin organ. The purpose of our body mind was our relation with
them in the same way. And what would the bees do without the flowers? What would they do without
the flowers? If the flowers disappeared or went super far away, the bees would have to make a way
to reach them. Maybe that's what UFOs are mostly. Maybe that's what all that's about and the military
has no fucking idea and is totally confused and wants asymmetric advantage against enemies.
And the religious people want the preservation of the narrative, right? We've got to preserve the
ancient stories and our interpretations of them at all costs. That's nothing like relation. Those
are rape minds, both of those things. Those are minds that will happily dispose of everything
alive and beautiful for the sake of their stupid single agenda, which is ironically self-destroying.
So yeah, let's think more openly about these matters and these histories
and I'm not saying I'm telling you what actually took place.
I'm showing you a perspective that is amazing
and brilliant and profound and enlightening, a very powerful perspective.
God, I've just noticed that the wind buffer that I usually use on my mic had fallen off.
I hope it wasn't super noisy, but even if it is, at least I've recorded this.
So thank you for joining me. I'm still trying to understand, literally to stand under and
lift existence up above me so that I can see better together.
More soon, I look forward to learning together again very soon. Bye-bye for now.
