Hi everybody, Itamiksetsuko, it's in blackfoot that I'm probably mangling, good afternoon
evening, good heat, things are cooking, if I, if I, again, if I'm not mangling this.
So, I'm a little bit nervous, I'm gonna talk about something different from what I often
speak of, because I'm gonna talk less about the ideas, though some about the ideas, and
more about how to play in the other place, the other place that's always here, always
near, but almost never seen.
And often, if I begin to, if I'm bold enough, and kind enough, and heart full enough, and
I'm paying attention, and I'm sensitive, then this kind of conversation, this kind of way
of being inside our humanity, in concert with other living beings.
It often transforms, just by speaking of it, into something unexpected, unexpected by our
common ways of thinking about who we are, and what living beings are, and what living
places are, even if they are.
And I may wander in the conversation, because I have a few little orbitals I'd like to
touch on.
And some of this knowledge comes from other beings, some of the way that I understand what
I'm hoping to be brave enough to talk about here.
It comes from other living beings, it comes from beings of a kind we don't have a good
category for, and most of us either don't believe in, or have a religion about.
Neither position is particularly useful, though both opposing something places us in relation
with it, and believing the wrong thing about something, getting it confused also places
us in relation somehow, in our minds.
Before I get walking, I've taken a moment in this place before I began, to make a small,
very small, but nonetheless sincere, to make a little offering.
It's not much, it's some seeds.
I brought it with me, well, for all kinds of reasons, but essentially, because I want
to give something to the living place and other beings.
And what I'm going to talk about is something that I'd like you to imagine, but I'm deeply
hopeful that you'll experiment with it.
And some of you have already discovered pieces of what I'll speak about today, accidentally,
and maybe you're not entirely sure how to think about it.
That's okay.
Though how we think about it does make a difference, because it changes how we are in, or not in,
or both in different ways, relationships.
My viewers have often heard me talk about living beings and living places in terms that
could seem hyperbolic, or maybe religious, or exaggerated somehow, or just peculiar to
me.
And I won't dismiss all of those observations, but if somebody were to talk to me deeply,
I think they'd find that whatever it is that's going on in my mind about this stuff is a
lot more nuanced and difficult to declare than it appears when we're not having a deep
conversation.
And so today, what I'd like to talk some about is maybe how to begin the conversation, how
to begin a conversation with a living place or living beings
like the coyote that's here now, right?
And one of the ways to respect this, although this is, in a way, my story is already turning
into, right, what we were talking about.
Because here is one of the old beings.
Right here, yeah.
The best way for me to respect the old being, animal, is not to photograph it, but also
to relate intelligently with the beings we encounter in a way that is sensitive, reverent,
and respectful, in a way that presumes this is important, this encounter, this relationship
is important in a not entirely ordinary sense.
There may be, it's so deeply ordinary that we have forgotten much of how to be in the
world this way.
So I'm going to sort of make a little framework for people to play within if they want in living
places and with living beings.
And although we're not going to leave the regular human world entirely behind, we won't
run naked, mud-painted into the wilderness, howling and screaming though.
It could go there someday.
Now, we'll bring some of our regular humanists, have my jacket and my purse and my keys and
my smart phone.
But we're going to leave the mindset.
We're going to step outside that mindset intentionally.
So we will begin with the intention to leave that which is not consonant with our purpose
aside.
It will be there when we return, we can pick it up later, we're not losing anything, it's
not dangerous.
In fact, it's very healthy.
Because unless we have exposure to a context that encourages us and in some way rewards
us for doing so, we may cling very tightly to all that modern conception and ideas and
rationality, which I am not here to denigrate.
It has its place.
And it even has a place in this adventure that we're on.
And again, having spoken of this adventure is different from having spoken of other things.
The reason is the kind of speaking is different.
This is the speaking of invitation, of invocation.
This is the speaking of relationship.
There's one of my friends who I have brought a little offering for.
And we begin to speak earnestly and sincerely about such things together.
And sometimes together is with all of humanity and sometimes it's with all of life and sometimes
it's between me and the living beings or the living place.
They're with me for just a moment.
I don't know if you came across it, but there's a coyote over here, so just be aware that
the...
Oh, yeah.
Okay, good.
I don't know exactly where it is, and it seemed pretty calm.
You know, it doesn't look aggressive, but it's on the other side of the path, and it
probably left the area, certainly.
So I want to be carefully aware now.
Because this is where the coyote crossed the path, I think I will go this way into the
brush.
Hopefully, this is a good choice.
Just want to be respectful of the coyote is because we're in an enclosed space, right?
There are fences.
The coyote can have concerns about being cornered, and that's something I want to pay very careful
attention to and have awareness of.
Because I'm in a relationship with the coyote, I'm in the place where it lives.
This is I am visiting another being's home.
And my first move was recognition, but my second move was photography.
I'm not happy with this, but I wanted to share it with you because this is the journey we're
going to go on together today.
Now why is this speech not like other speech?
In our ordinary relationships with language, language is very utilitarian and has a kind
of limited range of effect.
When we speak from our hearts, from deep inside our being, and we say aloud, you know, I want
to remember and be remembered by the living beings and I want to remember and engage with
the deep essence of myself reflected in the deep essence of the living places and the
living beings.
An intention like this is very peculiar and you can decide later for yourself and it won't
make much difference if you have authentic experience, which you probably will.
Just be careful about what stories you make up.
You can say either, oh, wow, there is magic in the world because it will surely seem magical.
Or you can say, oh, this isn't magic.
There is no magic.
This is something else.
Okay, that's all right, too.
The important thing really is to set those concerns aside at the beginning.
You can return to them later because they will not be important unless you bring them,
in which case they will become important and change, you know, they will affect your experience.
So here's the basic framework in a simple, in too simple a form.
Form the intention to discover whether there is a kind of secret language in nature, in
living places, in trees, in plants, in insects, in animals, in all the living things.
And if there is another way that the living places and the living beings communicate
and you are willing to enter playfully with imagination and wonder, trust, you have to
kind of go all in.
Not completely, but, you know, you have to really be in the play, in the playing.
And it's not playing in the sense of gambling.
And it's not playing in the sense of pure imagination, like sand castles and such.
Though those things are not entirely unrelated, it's not like this kind of play.
It's more like the kind of play that happens when two people who have an old affinity for
each other come together, and they don't know each other, and they meet, and there's
strange recognition as if I've known this person before.
It's that kind of play.
Trust me, everything in your body knows much more about the topic at hand than I could
ever possibly convey.
And it's important to form a vehicle of purpose, intention, engagement, heartfulness, depth,
to explore with.
My friends look pretty happy with these offerings.
It's good to see them.
Now see, I have developed a little relationship with these two Bujays over time as a result
of such play.
And a passerby will think very simply about such things and take pictures of the Bujays.
But they won't understand the depth of the play at hand, because they've only seen things
like it in fairy tales.
So we form the intention to have an adventure, a playful adventure, where there will be mysteries
and unexpected signals, encounters, gifts, receptions, transformations, in the old way.
In the way before our people became modern hunting tool using broken monkeys.
So we form the intention, you may speak the intention.
I will go today to the mountain with my heart and a gift.
And I will meet the mountain and we will remember each other.
And when I go, I will leave my sort of city human, modern human mindset behind because
I will be exploring.
And so I will be very sensitive in the path and I will ask the living place and perhaps
specific beings within the living place, the Bujay, the Coyote, the Sparrow, the Eucalyptus,
the Cactus, the Sage Plant.
I will ask them, please help me to see and learn.
I remember you.
We come from the same family.
I come to you with love and playfulness and respect so that we can learn together.
Now the play becomes alive in different ways and to different degrees in all the unique
circumstances that are involved.
It's not always the same.
And sometimes we will have a very deep adventure and sometimes we will have just a few noticings.
New ways of understanding how we are in the world with other living beings.
So I want you to try the adventure and you can try it anywhere.
It's nice if you have a place that is where there are many, many living beings like what
we call a natural place as if there are any other places.
But the humans have put a lot of layers of structure and they've built cities and towns
and things and roads and all of this.
But that doesn't really matter because it's still the living place so you can really do
it anywhere.
If you want to explore, if you want to get an unexpected experience of deep relation,
it's much easier in a place that's filled with life, all different kinds of life.
So I often come to this garden which is sort of a combination of things, right?
It's a living place tended and managed and sort of built by humans.
So one forms the intention, one goes into the living place or meets one's companions.
This could be a special tree, a tree that stands out to you.
That's what I mean by special in a way, or a special plant, or insect, or bird, or situation.
A being isn't just a distinct being.
We can bring ways of seeing into the play that assist us.
A situation is also kind of like a being and it's possible to make friends with it if one
is so oriented.
So the idea is to kind of open up a little door in our humanity, step outside the modern
part into the living old, really old aspect.
The aspects that are so old that they make language look like something that just started
happening yesterday.
And this is what I am hoping you will have an experience of because, well, I should continue
with the framework.
So one forms the intention and you don't have to do it, you know, I really want to meet.
It's not like that.
It's more like the living place.
I want to know where we're connected and how we can be together and learn together and
grow together and share with one another.
Because as a human being you have very unique qualities in nature, profoundly unique.
There's really nothing else.
There are very few animals that have the unexpected breadth of capacities that we have as human
beings.
So if we are sincere and our heart is in our walk and we settle into our heart and we walk
with reverence and awareness and respect, then the living beings around us, they recognize
that as a kind of, not exactly an opportunity, but walls that are otherwise there have come
down and they will sense this.
Because all of the living beings are profoundly sensitive.
Imagine how sensitive you become if you cannot move.
These do not walk around.
They are profoundly sensitive beings and they form communities and they have friends or
something similar and it's possible to become friends with them.
And nature, in language it becomes very troubling, all of these things.
Because we begin to ask, well, is it this or is it that?
This has little to do with it.
That one could say nature is a library of nonverbal languages and animals and plants,
they know and the insects and the ground itself, the mountain, it knows all of the things that
are happening there in the living place around the living beings.
What has happened a few moments ago?
What happened yesterday?
What happened a month ago?
What happened a year ago?
The living places have all this knowledge and when you begin to relate with them, if
you ask them, and if, if by your kindness and gratitude and trust and openness you have
made the invitation, then the living place will respond.
And it's really important to take off the clothing of your regular mind and really be
in the adventure and realize, oh, this is the ancient way.
I'm going to hear the old languages that aren't made of words that our ancestors were deeply
intimate with, that our bodies remember, but our minds reject because we're used to making
face noises and seeing writing.
We're used to authorities and we're often used to thinking of humans as so advanced
beyond nature that compared to us, nature is just stuff.
It's just stuff doing stuff that doesn't really matter.
You can see how the clothing of our modernity, right, it evicts us from the possibility of
these adventures.
I remember one day I went to a tree, I know, in the morning and I was just having a moment
of play, right?
I hadn't set the intention, gone to the place, brought gifts, reverently offered them, wandered,
allowed my attention to be directed by the birds or the light glinting in a peculiar
way through the branches or the unusual pattern of leaves in this one spot or the insect that
crosses in front of me or the one that lands on me or the swarm of insects nearby or the
pod, like a single organism in many animals of little birds, right, floating over the landscape
and where they go.
And what are they doing?
The library here is endless and brilliant and it contains knowledge unlike anything humans
are used to.
It's a different form and to be able to participate in this form is a profound privilege but it's
completely ordinary to our human nature.
We are born for this and yet most of the time we will live our lives in the clothing, in
the little bubble of our relatively functional, utilitarian, slightly rational, irrationally
rationalizing mindsets.
The living places are hopeful that humans will remember and this is a great opportunity
for us, particularly right now because our species has gone rogue.
It has forgotten all of the old relationships and more than forgotten them, it has treated
with life in a way that is fundamentally dishonorable, cruel, malignant.
Now I speak of the species as a unit, right, like what is the general trend and I'm talking
about means and averages and things like this.
The nature is aware of all of this, all of it, every little interaction, every transformation
because it's happening in its own body.
And there are many witnesses, nature is aware but she's also aware of the potential for
us to return to communion and each of the living beings is uniquely aware of this.
Now just like us, some of them are sleepy, some of them are awake, some days we may
go out on our adventure and perhaps not too much occurs.
On other days I remember I went to a tree that I know and this is sort of weird because
here's where nature and modernity cross over sort of.
And I was just silently speaking with my tree, loving it, expressing my gratitude for the
life it gives to the world and noticing all the different ways it gives something back
to the world.
And I was playing in my imagination, the tree and I were sort of dancing, right, as if the
tree could become animate.
And as I was about to leave, something called my attention back to the tree and it has a
low canopy this tree and the canopy is relatively broad.
And I felt my attention drawn over to a particular part of the canopy that I never go to because
I always use my habit to approach the tree in a certain way.
So I went over to the canopy, here's some, yeah, here's the little birds.
And I just paid really close attention around this part of the canopy for a few moments
and suddenly I saw underneath some detritus a five dollar bill and then a little ways
over a couple of other dollars and a little ways over here, two, three more.
That's a pretty peculiar situation.
Now I don't have to interpret it formally and I just don't need to.
But it felt to me, as though the tree were saying, here over here, there's something
that interests your people over here.
It doesn't obviously care about money.
And this is often the way nature will signal to draw us to a location and we should be
aware because it's a very complex circumstance and if there are large predators about or
something like this or there are, let us say, nests of yellow jackets in the ground at a
certain time of year, we can get in trouble.
We want to be very aware and attentive to the life around us when we're playing in the
living places and respectful of it.
The yellow jackets will teach you astonishing things if you become their friends and so
too will the coyotes.
So in the adventure, familiar to ancient people is an idea of sharing and it can be spoken
of in different ways.
But before we begin our adventure, we want to invest something very personal and part
of this investment is emotional and perspectival.
We're going to leave our human junk at the door and go with naked minds back into the
living places to bring reverence and recognition and remembrance and perhaps a gift of some
kind, something that is important to us.
And if it's something very precious, this will change the circumstances because they
will respond to all of the variations in our activity and how we are listening, how we
are following, how we are paying attention finally, you know, again to the living beings
and the living places.
And believe me when I tell you, this is like a fish paying attention to water.
We are born for this.
We've just forgotten and nature remembers many of the beings in nature remember
this kind of speaking, I will go to the living place to remember and be remembered with reverence
and wonder and love in the old way.
When spoken sincerely, this is not regular speech.
This is part of how we open the door in the wall of our modernity and find the portal
to step beyond.
So one of the ways of speaking about a principle within the context I'm reflecting on is something
I've partly learned from my friend Ryan First Diver.
But I cannot really speak to it because it's not from my people.
And yet the underlying principles belong to all of the people.
Even if the specific, I should just stop there, I'm getting too wordy.
So the ideas are first to invest something.
And our attention and our hearts, these are very powerful and we should begin there.
And by attention, I mean letting the sort of constant machinations of the waking mind
letting that die down, just allowing it to die down, not forcing it to shut off, just
letting it settle.
It's astonishing that we could have lost this.
This deep, filial connection with the intelligences and essences of nature, living places, living
being.
Part of how we lost it was with thinking.
We stopped thinking, oh look at all the little birds.
For some reason, we began to not think of living beings as beings.
We started to conceive of them as objects.
We found some angle to look at living beings with that deprived them both of their essential
nature and it deprived us both of contact with our own and with theirs.
And we became isolated in nature.
Which is the most bizarre idea, it's the old thing of dying at first in a boat on a mountain
lake, it's that kind of mess.
And so there's a lot of pressure for that to flip over, because this has been going on
for long enough that there's something inside us that wants the reconnection very badly
and is hungry, starving for it.
And there's something in all the living beings that want to bring us back into the fold, into
the community.
Particularly this is entirely an ordinary concern unless the guy outside the community
starts wiping everything and himself out.
In which case it becomes urgent that this happen.
So this is part of why there's a lot of potential here.
There's a lot of energy right at the surface just waiting for someone with the orientation
to allow that flow to be reestablished between the human minds, human cognisium and the living
world.
Because that relationship has been way out of broken for a long time.
I keep forgetting my little principle things I want to orbit, because I'm kind of excited
and a little bit nervous.
Oh yeah.
So I don't want to use value-laden language, but it says if we are ordinarily on a kind
of wavelength, right?
It's not just that the frequency of our cognition or our thought, or you know is it alpha waves
or delta or theta, it's not just that.
The species of thought we entertain is discursive.
You can look the word up, but it splits us off in many different ways from being present.
And so I ask that we become sensitive in the living places when we're on our adventure
to the different frequencies of silence, the different flavors of silence, the different
colors of silence, what we could even call the different musics of the living silence,
which we are profoundly familiar with, but are not necessarily habituated to understand,
to be transformed by in the same ways that music or kindness, respect and reverence, friendliness
transform us.
She in this place, depending on where I am facing, there is always one direction from
which machine noise is coming.
But within the garden, it makes membranes of different kinds of silence.
And these kinds of silence are not precisely a conversation, but they resemble it somewhat.
And there are transports in the silence across which knowledge and recognition and other
signals of communion are constantly being exchanged.
The precursor to something like the metaposition of something like the internet is what's going
on and there's all different temporalities or speeds of formation, presentation, invitation,
direction, pointing something out or highlighting something.
And it's so rich and layered and profound, yet all I'm hoping for is that we can have
an experience by playing this way together that will introduce us to the surface of this
in a way that won't be too shocking, because the stuff underneath the surface layers is
very unexpectedly rich in ways we're not even used to having experience of.
And our minds may try to kind of protect us from that, so it's nice to kind of play
on the surface for a while in the beginning.
So become sensitive to all of the different languages, the languages of color, of form,
of movement, of stability, what changes, what doesn't.
Who is new here?
Who wasn't here yesterday that is here today?
Who is leaving?
Who is arriving?
What time of day is it?
What time of the moon is it?
What time of the year is it?
What time of my private heart?
What time of my personal time?
Where this place is time of essence.
What is the time there?
The light and the shading and the color and the form and the relationships between the
beings and the living places, all of these things are profoundly rich, and there's an
intelligence inside us that was born to interact and recognize all of this, and it's been largely
silenced in most of us, exceptions noted.
And I think actually in a hopeful sense, nearly all of us, not everybody, but nearly all
of us, we carry this hope, right, of reunion.
It's a very powerful thing worth paying attention to.
So find and listen to the different wavelengths of the silences that are communicating, and
they don't communicate by speech, they communicate by resonance, kind of like osmosis, if I'm
in a room with another guitar and I pluck a string, the other guitar will resonate,
and in fact the strings that I either, the string that I plucked will resonate, or if
I fret the string, change its length, other strings may resonate complexly.
Something like this is always going on in nature.
So I spoke about my friend Ryan, and then I got confused, but I'll just introduce the
two topics, and the Blackfoot words that are associated with them.
And one is to invest in the relationship earnestly and authentically, with one's whole heart.
And it's not a perfectionist game, it's a sincerity game, or actually it's not really
a game, in the aspect of sincerity it's not mere play.
So we go to the living place, or the tree, or whatever.
I mean, one of the things I've sometimes brought trees is a little pile of earth.
Now the tree doesn't need my little pile of earth, that's not the point.
Though if an animal or a being or a place needs something and you bring that, it's very
good, because now you've already established consonants, right?
If you can see like, oh this needs some of this, and you bring a little of whatever that
might be, or you rescue even a very tiny creature, because we think tiny means, we've got tiny
means big in another way, right?
If we understood this, and these are the kinds of things you will learn, like oh the really
tiny thing, well what's the strongest animal on earth?
It's the scarab beetle, the beetle that pushes a little dung ball around.
So you know, the bravest animal on earth is not the lion, it's the mouse.
I mean, I'm not saying that explicitly, right?
Courage is uniquely instanced in every being, but pay attention to tiny things, right?
Leave the land of your familiar scale of interest and concern, and travel to above that scale
and way down into the components, right, the little insects, the tiny little phenomenon.
This will broaden the diversity of the path.
So the bringing of the gift, the forming and the bringing of the gift, the offering of
reverence and remembrance and thanks of gratitude, bring this into your heart as you form the
gift, as you enclose the gift if you do, as you carry the gift, and particularly when
you offer the gift, offer it with authentic heartfulness, authentic mindfulness, remembrance
of the incredible nurturance and support that each one of us has received from all of the
living beings, and from the world, and from the sky, and from before of the before.
Remember these things in your heart, and give the gift in a moment of loving reverence.
This is an example of a sincere demonstration, right?
I am here to come together for you, for me, for us in remembrance and recognition and learning.
And the forming and the offering of this gift of gratitude and reverence and respect, and
this is also true of human relationships, this happens all the time in human relationships.
We just don't think of it precisely the same way.
You don't have relationships you didn't invest in, and it's the same in nature.
You have to invest something, and part of what you can invest is an offering of service.
This is quite profound, and bring a little something with you to give, but offer service.
If you will teach me, I will remember what you show me, and I will speak of it to my
people, and I will help them to see and help them to remember.
I will serve you.
If you show me what I can bring that will help, I will work hard to bring what will help.
This way of being in the relationship is very profound, because when it is sincere, they
will pay attention.
They will notice you've taken off the modern human shell, and that you've set that aside,
and you're now being present in the old way, and they all remember that.
They all remember our people being like this.
And they will give something back.
So the gift in Blackfoot is referred to as sapunstang.
Hopefully, I'm not mangling it too bad.
I'll try to stop saying that every time I use a Blackfoot word, not that I'll be using
a whole bunch of them, because my vocabulary is very limited.
Sapunstang.
The offering we bring, both in introducing ourselves, hi, I am this one.
I bring you this gift.
I want to understand who you are.
Who are you?
Here's the other pivot.
And be aware that the beings who will introduce themselves to you, or who will give you signals
or enter playfully into the path with you.
These beings, they may not trust you immediately with good reason, so it may take some time.
You might have to practice a bit and show, you know, I'm not just this way today.
I am this way with you.
We are this way together, always.
And even in the recognition, right?
The recognition of the tree, it comes from before being human.
It's very old.
The intelligence in the eye of the hummingbird, it's from before being human.
It's not an accident that the world has been rocked by an octopus, and a human being having
a relationship, right?
It's not an accident.
This is what I'm talking about.
This kind of thing, honestly, if I were to be very blatant about it, there isn't anything
else going on in nature.
It's just that humans have defected from all of this.
And we will be very excited if we could return.
Trust me, you'll be very...
You will see and learn and be in the world in an entirely different way, because a world
you have never imagined will slowly reveal itself to you and invite you in.
It has nothing to do with whether this is magic, or there's a game-theoretical genetic
explanation that doesn't even make no difference whatsoever.
You don't have to worry about what it is unless you're trying to define it.
Suponstan is the gift that we bring.
And if our service and our gift, we're not signing up for a job, we're giving a gift
of love in service.
And it's a gift that will heal us.
It will heal us.
It will heal me first.
And then if I'm lucky or good enough to share it somehow with others so that it reaches
them and comes inside their interiority and comes to life, now something really beautiful
is going on.
And the living world has re-entered our experience of our life, and we realize, oh my God, I'm
living in a universe of anciently involved intelligences that have actual character,
maybe even something resembling personality, but they are not verbal.
And so I have to find another way to participate with them.
Now here is one of the weird blocks.
There's a bunch of strange blocks in our modern thought.
And what I mean by blocks are like occlusions, blockages, clogs.
And one of them was this thing where we started thinking about living beings as less than,
less than whatever, right?
And we also began to think of them as things.
Because they don't respond if I say like, hello tree, can you tell me your name to this tree?
It probably would, but it might take three months.
A tree is in a completely different kind of time.
So the tree doesn't answer me in English.
I presume, oh, there's no one home.
It's not, it's the opposite.
What's actually going on is the opposite of that.
There's no one home in verbal land.
But in all the other dimensions, fully, you know, personated in the sense of not, not
humanated, but being, right, a being, an actual being.
And the living place is like this, the mountain is like this, the valley, the lake, the meadow,
the stream.
But also situations are like this, right?
It's not just the discrete beings.
It's their symphony together.
That's what they're doing together, right?
This becomes a kind of a being that you can relate with and take part in.
So the intention, the leaving aside of the human, of the human shell, right, walk outside.
And when you leave that, leave the religion stuff too.
Be sure and leave all the metaphysics, right?
Let nature have a clean canvas to paint with you on.
This is what I'm asking.
To the best of your abilities, right?
So again, it's not a perfection, it's not a perfection play.
But one of the really bizarre blockages was simply, okay, so I'm not going to tell you
how to think or exactly how to use your mind.
That would be an indelicate to be kind and also against my purposes because I want you
to discover your own way.
Each person's way is unique, right?
It may share common ground with me.
It may not.
It may share deep common ground and subtle difference.
It may share subtle common ground and deep difference.
That's not the point.
So there's a perspective that I've found very useful and it's important to me.
The coyote is not doing well.
The coyote needs something.
I can feel it's not doing well.
It's tired.
It needs something.
But I don't know what to bring in.
And I don't have anything with me that is likely to help it.
Sometimes, uh, it is difficult.
It becomes difficult.
And this is when we have to actually work hard.
Because the living beings or the living places, they will respond to our unique humanness,
right?
And they will select something that is well suited for us, for our way of being in a
role-like capacity in the between of nature and humans.
Because you see, the humans have these incredible abilities, right?
I can go right now and buy a chunk of meat in theory and come back and give it to the
coyote.
I do not know what it needs.
But a problem has now been introduced to me, right?
Here is the coyote.
It does not appear to be doing well.
It's awake too early.
It looked dejected and not appropriately, uh, its situational awareness was very limited.
And its spirit was, was downtrodden, downcast.
I could feel the way it held its head.
Ears were low.
I could feel something is not, something is not, not well here.
The first time I saw it, right?
Because otherwise it would have been more alert.
And then when I saw it now, it just looked at me like, can you help me?
Can you help me?
Can anyone help me?
Will someone help me?
It was a look where as if, as if to say, your people no longer really help our people and
I don't feel entitled to ask, but if you could help me, please help me.
It was this kind of look or also, you know, please don't threaten me and now my heart
has shifted because I am listening and I do not know what I will do yet.
But this is part of today's adventure.
This is part of this and this has happened to me before the living place has taken me
to something where something has gone wrong, right?
And this, this is a common aspect of the communion because in certain situations only the humans
could fix it.
Sometimes it's something the humans have already, the humans started the problem most
of the time, right?
In the first place.
So what I was going at briefly when I saw suddenly the Coyote and was really, it has
changed me.
The Coyote is carrying a weight and I am offering to carry part of that weight if I can.
This is part of my offering, all right, my supposed on.
There's two more things, okay?
So the first is we thought of animals and living places and plants as things.
This was unwise because this categorization deprives us of the capacity of relation with
them and causes us to believe that it's not possible.
When in fact even that isn't true because you can have a very deep relationship with
a book or, you know, a cup, something very close to you, some object, you can have a
very intimate relationship with an object where there's a kind of communion, right?
There's a resonance between you and this object.
But my point is it was a radical revolution in my mind when I began to think of living
beings and places as people.
This is an important, it will not do for you to think of them as things.
This will not work because things don't talk to you, but people do.
So and the way that I think of living beings as people is a little bit different from how
I'm used to thinking of them.
In that a bee is at once a specific bee, this bee in front of me, or a sparrow, but it is
also all of the bees in all of time.
And so how I treat with this bee will become known to all of the bees, this perspective.
Now you can say, well, that's not scientific, I'm not trying to be scientific.
I'm trying to talk about the before of the damage that representational cognition did
to us.
And also you will discover whether or not for yourself, whether or not all that I am
speaking of is relevant to your experience or not or how and in which parts and you may
extend what I have learned dramatically.
I hope you do.
And I consider what I have learned to be very, very meager.
I am no expert.
I'm just like a child trying to understand old mysteries.
So when I see a tree, you know, it is like, it is the tree people, but it is this tribe
of the tree people and is this specific tree, and they are all there in this tree.
Or this sparrow or this blue jay or this coyote, because when we encounter the coyote and we
have a relationship with it, we are relating with its people through the local one.
And this way of thinking is important to me, useful to me, more like what my experience
is than what I am otherwise inclined to think, particularly if I'm being rational or scientific.
And I'm not denigrating those aspects they have their place.
And even once we've become involved in the play, there may be aspects of intellect and
rationality and science that we want to bring into the play.
For example, you know, if we want to rescue something, I might need to know what kind
of food that it needs, right?
Now the coyote could just be like, I can't sleep.
I'm going to go maybe got kicked out of its den.
I don't know.
But it does not look, it does not look happy.
It's downcast.
Nothing's wrong, I can tell.
I now know where it lives and I know what time it came out tonight.
This is also important.
If you encounter something that you want to see again, note the place and time that you
saw it.
But I just don't know how to help the coyote yet.
Okay, so sometimes you will encounter a problem where you don't know what to do or you feel
helpless.
And you'll have to overcome that eventually, right?
You'll have to be like, you can't be stuck in that all the time.
It's okay for you to experience it though.
Sometimes you may encounter something where you don't know how to interact with the situation
in the right way, in a good way, in a way that demonstrates suponston but also is not
naive, right?
Because if I were naive, I could just say, well, I'm going to go over to the coyote and
take a look at it without my camera.
And you know, that might not be entirely naive, but in this case, I can tell the coyote it
wants help, but it does not want me to come over and touch it, right?
It's not a doll.
It's not a cartoon.
There might be weird situations in which some kind of direct contact will happen or especially
in a rescue.
We may need to find a way to, with some degree of safety, approach the animal, communicate
our intentions, negotiate, moving it, and so on, but it's very important to understand,
to be in your mind in a way that recognizes, these are people.
These are people.
There are peoples.
They're all one, the people of the earth.
They're unified there.
They're unified in the before, and they're diversified down here, and they're all in
relationships, and we should respect their relationships to the degree that we are capable
of, to the degree that we can perceive them, right?
We can't be superhuman necessarily, but seeing them as people will mean when you encounter
a new being, you will want to know, you know, you will introduce yourself, and not with
your name, maybe with how you are in, how you would like to be in the relationship.
I am one who loves you.
I am one with reverence for your people.
I am one who remembers.
Help me to remember, and I will help you.
We will help each other.
This kind of way of being in it, this kind of introduction, which perhaps after the video
I may make between myself and the coyote.
It is important to have experience of not knowing what to do, and it can be difficult.
I hope the coyote is not going to die there.
I am concerned that it is dying.
The way that it is laying on the dirt pile, the spirit of the coyote, it's like it's
facing something inevitable, and it's profoundly sad.
I must continue with the video for the moment, because this is what I am doing.
So seeing the beings as people, introducing yourself, and then listening.
It's okay if there is no response right away.
The response may come in a way that you are not expecting, that does not enter your consciousness
directly, like what happened with the tree and the money.
You may just notice something suddenly.
Ask for the living beings to lead your attention.
Ask for them to lead what you pay attention to, and also how you understand, like how
you interpret it.
Give me your interpretive awareness, oh living beings, so that I can not only see
situations, but understand them, and this will enable me to respond with kindness and
intelligence and respect, this kind of thing.
This deep sincerity is very powerful.
You'll find it just as powerful in every relationship, human and non.
All I'm trying to say is that the entire planet is aware of this kind of thing.
All of the living beings.
And what are they aware?
I cannot answer the question with their essence, and their essence woven into the anciently
evolved and new relationships that they are forming.
The silence right now is profound.
The black foot word for, this is a concept.
So there is a concept of transfer.
If I teach you a skill, let's say handwriting, then I have transferred something to you.
If I give you knowledge, even the knowledge encoded today, and again this video is strangely
self-referencing, as you hopefully have seen some evidence of.
And by the way, that quality is a signal about something.
It's a signal that we are interacting with the world in a way we don't usually interact,
and this is transforming the possibilities dramatically.
So the living beings and the living places will make transfers of knowledge with you.
And sometimes it will be something very simple, and sometimes it will be something very profound,
and sometimes the profound thing will unfold over time.
And sometimes the whole experience will mostly happen in a brief exchange.
And there is knowledge in nature, and the old people, because the knowledge couldn't
be encoded in language by itself.
They employed song, dance, and ceremony as containers to protect the knowledge and to
make it transferable, to transfer it between them, when the transfers were appropriate.
I'm probably going to have to end here. I may continue in another video. I think I managed
to cover most of the topics, but BOMUXIN is what the living beings will give back to you
in the form of knowledge and roles, right? You will be given roles, and recognition,
and sharing. And they will return something very profound whenever we are very sincerely
in the play. But begin with a light heart. Begin with a playful, curious mind. Have the
adventure. Return to your human little world. Reflect upon it. And certainly, if you wish,
by all means, share about it. For this is something we can play and learn with together
over time. And hopefully I will have the inspiration to continue this video shortly.
For now, I'm going to go see what I can find out about the coyote without getting in trouble,
without being naive. When we have received a transfer, it is very good to celebrate that.
To have a dance, to celebrate it. See, this is where things become complex. But still,
to celebrate the transfer is a simple thing. In whatever way seems appropriate. Bring a
gift, sing, dance. Sit quietly with the beings involved. Express your deep gratitude and
perhaps your humility. And just remember that you are not alone.
Experience the joy of rediscovering these anciently conserved miracles within us, within
the world, in our capacity to reach across from the humans back to origin in the living
beings and from the living beings across back into the humans. Thank you for joining me.
Enjoy the adventure.
