Hello everybody. Welcome. So, um, let's see what's going on here.
Alright. My last recording was destroyed, unfortunately. I think it was quite good.
Um, perhaps this one will be even better if we're lucky or if I'm skillful.
Unfortunately, I got a new phone, and it's the first smartphone I ever purchased.
Yes, I have resisted purchasing smartphones since they were invented.
There's a long set of stories about this.
I've been a technological consultant since approximately 1985.
Think about that. Probably before many of you were born.
I was learning how to use and teach people how to use computing devices.
And, probably around 1996, I began to see them as extremely dangerous.
Shortly after email began to become commonly used.
My first email address, by the way, was cyanosis.
Medical condition in which you're turning blue because there's no oxygen in your bloodstream.
Yes, cyanosis at slip.net. One of the first ISPs in San Francisco back in the day.
It's a hilarious t-shirt.
So, long time ago, I was a consultant and I watched how email damaged relationships due to the both expectation of
and incapacity to intelligently mediate instantaneous communication or relatively instant communication.
Also, communications in text that were previously impossible, effectively.
And, when they became possible, they were extremely disorienting and confusing
because people didn't realize that the communications would be read in a way
that was reflective of the reader's recent experience over, say, the past week, day, hour, and five minutes.
This is still the case today. We still have these problems. They're still catastrophically relationally toxic.
Some people have adjusted to them. Many people have had their relationships destroyed by them.
The addition of new ways to reach each other instantaneously, such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, 19 other things I could name,
TikTok, et cetera, has created further relational dissociation in human beings.
The technologies developed incredibly quickly, our capacity to withstand their largely toxic and intrusive effect on our lives
and relationships did not develop in a similar fashion that would allow us to keep up with the problems.
So, I avoided having anything resembling a smartphone I had a landline until about 2016,
at which time I began to work for a film producer and he needed me to have a smartphone, to have the job, so he sent me one.
I'm recording on it now because either the phone or the mic were both on the new device are far too sensitive.
So, my last recording was basically none of my voice and a lot of footstep sounds.
Yeah, highly problematical. Disappointing to me as well.
But here I am today. So, excuse me, a little bit of housekeeping.
As you know, my podcast doesn't really have a name and it's not actually a podcast.
It's really just me recording things most of the time or sometimes doing interviews.
There's been a large recent influx of potentially new listeners, primarily based on my interest in Amon Hillman.
And I'm sure some people, especially longtime listeners, have been confused about why I'm interested, fascinated actually,
with Hillman, his history, his mind and his work. We'll get to that.
But for now, I just want to thank all of you who are here today and who have listened in the past or may listen in the future.
Your support in whatever way you feel comfortable demonstrating it is profoundly important without that support.
It'd be very difficult for me to continue making these recordings and continuing my writing on medium.
And indeed, my Facebook work, more than 30,000 posts over 12 years, none of which have to do with my personal life,
all of which have to do with concerns related to cognitive activism,
which is the banner under which I make my way through the creative commons.
A cognitive activist is someone who is concerned with the pitfalls and opportunities implicit in human cognition,
linguistic behavior, cultural milieu, sociological and economic situation.
And that's my area of expertise. Language, semantics, poetics, philosophy, linguistics.
The difference between the nominatum and the nominata. Have I got those right?
I think the nominatum is the signified and the nominata is the sign, that which points at the signified.
The token and its referent, the word and what it points at, the difference between an actual squirrel and the idea of squirrel.
Knowledge, a huge problem for us humans.
So, back to the housekeeping. I'd be very grateful if you would subscribe. Take a moment, sign in, subscribe.
If you're on social media and you enjoy any of my recordings, please share them with a little note about why you think they're interesting.
Pop in, leave a comment, ask a question, which I will respond to.
Or even suggest a topic for a future walk and talk or recording or perhaps interview.
Also, if any of you know Amon Hillman, I'd very much like to get an interview with him.
I realize that's getting less and less likely as time goes on, but I'd also really love to send him some paper mail.
Or find a way to get his attention other than at his email address associated with his YouTube account, which I'm sure is buried in emails.
I have a lot of interesting questions I know I could ask him that have remained unasked by nearly all of the people that have interviewed him.
So yeah, I'm really hoping to get an interview with him. We'll see how that works out.
If you can, please take a moment and make a small donation by a Patreon.
Or you can send a one-time donation to me, if you wish, at s-a-n-d-s-y-s at p-a-c-b-e-l-l-packwell.net through PayPal.
If you'd like to send a donation in some other fashion, please get in touch via my email address and I'll happily direct you to a method that suits you.
I'm extremely grateful to Mr. N for his contributions and to my other three patrons on Patreon.
Yes, I have a total of four patrons.
Ms. E and Mr. N have been particularly helpful in keeping my work alive, and so thanks to them.
That was a lot of preamble, so let's get rolling.
The problem of knowledge is very profound, and what I discussed in the video that is now lost forever to noise is the crucial imperative
of teaching each other to understand, to clearly be able to understand, and relate with the dangers and opportunities implicit in representational cognition,
which is what I refer to, the phrase I use to refer to, the modes of thought we are most commonly engaged in as moderns.
These are modes that tend to abstraction and to abstract us from participation and deep relation intimacy with ourselves, our companions in the living world, exceptions granted,
so that the world becomes a catalog of things, and the things have in their definitions very limited depth.
We know that a tree is the kind of an organism that qualifies as vegetative as a plant.
We may know some of the things, some words about its structure, it has branches and leaves and roots and bark and cambrium and so forth.
We may know its Linnaean, you know, Cedrus Atlantica.
We may know the Latin Linnaean categorical language to refer to it.
When my friend asks me about a plant, what is that?
He or she is generally asking, what is it called?
And there's the terrifying sequelae to this problem, which is that once we know what something is called, we may become so confused, we are likely to become so confused,
as to think we know what it is.
In other words, familiarity breeds dissociation in language.
Our participation collapses. There's a story where the child is ecstatic at seeing the birds every morning.
One day, his somewhat disturbed mother, tired of his catastrophic enthusiasm at an ordinary phenomenon, perhaps, says, oh, those are just sparrows.
And the child inevitably notes the adult's abstract, dissociated lack of engagement with the situation and soon learns to emulate it so that later upon seeing the same phenomenon, the child will ignore it and think to themselves, oh, those are just sparrows.
Never mind the fact that no one has the slightest idea what a sparrow is or why there are sparrows, how they came to be, what their relationship is with us and ours with theirs, what the meaning of the existence of organisms might be, or any of those things.
They just have these words, bluejay, sparrow, duck, goose, hawk, owl, dove, titmouse, bluebird, bat, martin, swallow, these words.
And so what you'll notice is that, as Feynman once said, and I think it's not clear whether he was using the actual words.
I think his father, and in the story Feynman may have even made up this story, he's just making up words, but he tells a story of being young and his father pointing at, oh, a red-bellied sap sucker, let's say.
And his dad told him, you know, in English it's a red-bellied sap sucker. In Japanese it's an ayano-kamana. In Russian it's an ochikaktsis.
In Navajo it's this. In French it's an ovievoa. Probably just made up words, made up sounds that reminded him on and upon a poetically of the languages.
And his father gave him to hear Feynman tell it, I don't know, 15 or 20 words, and then his father said, now you know all the names of this bird, the entire collection which tell you nothing whatsoever about the phenomenon that is being named.
And this is the problem of knowledge and language. One of the problems, one of the vast array of problems.
And so, an array of skills that we imagine to have the power to lift us into new dimensions of intelligence, relation, opportunity, skillfulness, awareness, understanding, consciousness, creativity, wonder, awe, curiosity.
So very often, as we age, have the opposite effect. Destroying and crystallizing the faculties with which we might otherwise become brilliant, perhaps even transcendent.
Unfortunately, our habits with language and knowledge and the cultural values in which we arise unless they privilege creative, intellectual, philosophical, and perhaps even metaphysical endeavors and development.
Unless these are privileged in a common environment and rewarded or at least not punished in the cohorts with which we participate, or we are so stubborn and peculiar that we just resist the profound gravity of our social milieu.
It's very difficult to do. We will find ourselves trapped in something that resembles the trap to which Merlin was subject by the witch who enchanted him and who he adored.
Was it Mordred's mother? Was it Mordred's daughter? I cannot recall her name at the moment, but she trapped him in a crystal in a cave. He was frozen there.
As I recall, and this is what happens in our minds, you see this as people get older, their consciousness just crystallizes. They may even have certain domains of vocational expertise at which they are quite well-developed and capable professorships and so on, and yet they still crystallize as they get older.
And often we begin this crystallization when we are young.
You know, the death of the imagination and childhood, the ability to play and invent worlds and consciousness almost as if we are dreaming while awake.
With nothing more than a stick or some mud or some sand to dig in, the child's mind naturally, you know, the rivulet of water flowing down the gutter, its wave front, picking up little bits of detritus and leaf matter and causing a catastrophe for the line of ants that was crossing the path of the water
and all of these things, yeah, in childhood, these are universes for us. The bathtub becomes all oceans.
The child plays at being Poseidon.
The young boy destroys the flotilla of battleships that might be represented by nothing more than toothpicks with a tidal wave.
All of these imaginal capers and the cavorting of the imagination playfully in physical reality rapidly dies over time, and we are told that the reason this happens is that we grow out of play.
This is not what happens. What happens is that representational cognition eats up the resources that were previously used for daydreaming imagination, creativity and so forth.
And this process is accelerated by exposure to what we very strangely refer to as education, contrasted with what Derek Jensen would brilliantly refer to as educare.
The wise developmental shepherding of the cognitive, relational, intellectual and creative resources of young human minds and cultures.
So this knowledge stuff is very, very dangerous. And some of us, there are many brilliant women and men who are cognitive activists without necessarily wearing the label.
It's a very uncommon label, but all who seek to enlighten us about the dangers and opportunities implicit in language, knowledge, education, philosophy, science, metaphysics, in some cases religion.
All of these beings, they are cognitive activists. And Amon Hillman is particularly one of them. He, though he certainly has quite a chip on his shoulder about it, and look, many of us do.
In fact, lots of brilliant minds were driven to discovery and prodigy and polemathy precisely because they were so upset by something that they or someone they loved were subject to.
Or simply the catastrophic domination of injustice and ignorance and stupidity and manipulation and lying and rape and war and commerce that have devastated billions of human lifetimes and hundreds of thousands if not millions of generations of humans.
The children, the mothers, the fathers, the brothers, the sisters, the aunts, the uncles, the grandmothers, the grandfathers destroyed. Their lives ruined. Their opportunities ripped to shreds by policies and protocols by the things I call thrips.
And Hillman's quite pissed about, he's very pissed at a specific array of thrips that he feels are domineeringly lying about the history of Western civilization, society, religion.
He's very angry at some strands of religion that he thinks of as usurpers and narratological tyrants. Christianity, perhaps Judaism.
Hillman's not an anti-Semite, I don't think. Don't get that impression at all. And, you know, this question's been explored. No, no, he seems to love the Jews.
He just doesn't think that the common narratological claims to linguistic and historical primacy of Hebrew are just or valid or true because there's a vast plethora in his view of evidence that they are preceded by and informed by and perhaps even stolen from or cribbed from.
To be more kind, Greek, ancient Greek.
And so Hillman also doesn't like this puritanical, this array of puritanical narratives that overlays the history of Western civilization, Judaism and Christianity.
And particularly the catastrophic hypocrisies of Christian religion producing lots of instances of the abuse of women and children. He can't stand that.
Some people will argue that he has wild or maniacal views. This may well be true.
But compared to the things that he's raising his sword against, he may as well be a saint because lies are lies and lies that raise the banner of religious truth are among the most detestable of lies.
So, you know, there's a lot about Hillman I don't know. I have so many questions about his history, his orientation, the peculiar and contagious lilt of his voice, which he clearly acquired after a certain life phase.
Because there are videos of him when he is younger and he does not have this lilt.
And the lilt, his prosody, the music of his voice is both contagious and off-putting.
It will bother some who will immediately turn the channel and it will enchant others.
I personally found it, I find him profound, enlightening, entertaining, maniacal, mannistic, Greek idea, mannistic, prophetic.
The true enthusiasm, enthu as in entheogen and enthusiasm, the gods present in the person's aching human heart.
He displays to me features familiar to me from my own developmental arcs, many of which were also enthusiastic and perhaps occasionally manic, not necessarily manic, but manic.
You see on the stage Christian evangelists mimicking manic enthusiasm.
But is it real? I don't know. One cannot say universally one thing or the other.
But it's one of the few places where you see manic enthusiasm in commonly represented or enacted in modern situations.
Hillman's lilt.
So Hillman is also a magician. He talks about opes, this concept in Greek. This is very important.
Many of us have long believed in Rupert Sheldrake's among them that the eyes are not merely passive receptors of photons as proposed by the benighted mouthpieces of modern science.
In science's desperate urge to evict God from science, they went far too far and evicted everything that couldn't be explained by physical mechanics.
What we know of the origins of physical mechanics is so minimal, it's probably less than one percent of what's going on, so they threw the entire universe and its history and meaning and origins and all of this out.
I just want to look at mechanics that they can measure with devices, thus throwing the entire quote beyond device, quote, aspects of organisms away with the rest of the universe.
This opes, probably the fragment that gives us words like ophthalmology, Hillman describes the gaze as magically powerful.
And I was listening to a demystify sigh podcast yesterday on the day before on the transactional interpretation of quantum mechanics.
I cannot recall the speaker's name, and I don't know to what degree it resembles Bohm's pilot wave theory, but essentially, the theory posits a situation in which the transmission
of energy between particles via the photon, for example, is mediated by a particle that sends a signal of readiness to receive backwards in time.
To the particle that is signaling its readiness to transmit forwards in time, and there's a back and forth process that becomes infinitesimal as it iterates, so that all of this takes place effectively, instantly.
And so he was saying in the originator of this theory that when you look at the star, your eyes are not merely passively receiving the light. They are emitting the waves that draw the light to your eye.
And the Greeks and many others were aware of this idea that the eyes, as it were, emitted rays, which you could think of as like the ray of a searchlight, and those rays contact surfaces and beings and transmit information to them as well as receiving information from them.
So that the act of seeing is profoundly physically intimate.
It's a giant yellow seaplane flying overhead.
It's got some kind of a chain or something coming from its tail, which makes me wonder, huh, no, that wouldn't work. It's not long enough to pull the glider.
But it's very important to understand how little we understand of the nature of physical existence in 2024.
We have what we think of as very advanced physical technology. It's not very advanced at all.
In fact, it's primordially disorganized. Any technology that has a good chance of wiping you out is not advanced. Let's put it that way.
Any technology that has a good chance of ending life on your world or most of the complex life is not well evolved.
Similarly, the minds of beings who are capable of forging machines, nuclear weapons, bio weapons, CRISPR, genetic manipulation of organismal lineages and so forth,
but has none of the intelligence necessary, nearly none, to allow it to survive the implementation of any technology.
Clearly, these are not intelligent beings yet, or they are beings with the potential for intelligence that have been captured by something, something truly terrifying.
So Hillman is very much concerned with the reestablishment of ways of knowing that predate the domineering narratives that largely manipulate and intoxicate in the terrifying connotation of that word,
Western civilization and Eastern civilization and any civilization that's exposed to them because you have this huge problem where once you have the strange representation of value that we call money,
that kills most games, right? That knocks most games off the table and creates a situation where you have a race to the bottom mediated by a broad encyclopedia of perverse incentivizations.
C.F. Daniel Schmockenberger looked to him for clear and brilliant explorations of perverse incentives, the game theoretical apocalypses, races to the bottom,
where if a player in your world game is going to take the game in the direction of apocalyptic threat and or zero-sum games, I win, you lose, or I win, everybody else loses,
then all players must transform, it seems, it would seem, must transform their play accordingly. And generally it's very hard to out-compete somebody who's got a finger on an apocalypse button.
So we're in this really, really dangerous situation and I think Hillman in his prophetic aspect sees us at the brink of a broad apocalyptic situation in which God's tyrants and tyrant killers
will rise up naturally. And we've seen some evidence of this, we've seen some inaction of these things lately. I don't need to point directly at them, but I could.
One man named Trump, one man named Crooks, one man named Putin, one man named Netanyahu, and so forth. There are other names that I've left off the list that are similarly, lethally motivated.
So, you know, what are Hillman's primary concerns? I don't know. However, they seem to be those of a cognitive activist, someone who has recognized, in the ancient Greek language, a broad array of intellectual, spiritual, communal, societal, and cultural accelerants,
as if the language itself was the kaikion or the theriac, or both, that he sometimes describes in the mystery rites or in use in ancient Greece and other cultures.
There's Pulaskians, I think, that preceded or that the Greeks may have inherited traditions, myths, intoxicants, and knowledge from.
Now, he, Hillman, is, okay, he is a, he is a purveyor of an entirely different form of knowledge, and he's well aware of this.
He knows that the kinds that we play with are mostly dead inside because he has tasted the other kinds, the kinds that come from direct contact with non-human intelligences and or, and here's where things get a little weird, but hey,
nothing's as weird as a society that tries to kill everything for the sake of machines and money. Non-human intelligences and or the minds of the dead, those who came before us, those who lived before we lived and knew the worlds before our world,
and understood, had cosmologies and ontologies and epistemologies that were radically different from anything we've ever been exposed to.
Now, in my own perspective, I would argue that we poor humans have undergone a series of catastrophic umbilical catastrophes where there used to be six or seven different umbilicae
connecting us to the cognizia of the entire planet, the solar system, the sun, the moon, the galaxy probably, the stars, the beings that dwell in what we could think of as the abyss,
or what we could think of as time space, the beings whose, the disembodied, transcendent intelligences that are native to the substrate from which matter itself emerges, all of the cognizia of the organisms of Earth, all of these umbilicae.
We were, we were companions, and we were the physicalization of these umbilical progenitors, many, not one.
And a series of catastrophes ensued and there was disaster on both sides of the umbilicus. The humans went insane and became more like a religious and representationally loopy, started believing that tokens were the only thing that mattered,
and attempting to get the attention of the lost umbilical progenitors of many different kinds, God's demons, the dead, the sky, the stars, the universe, the beings that created the universe, all of these things, right?
Imagine a number, imagine that humans prior to say, I'm gonna, I'm gonna talk about, well, I don't know where the catastrophe, I don't know where exactly the catastrophes occur, the younger dryus events are certainly momentously impactful, haha.
But I'm gonna just wildly guess that sometime, just prior to the invention of writing, some of the catastrophes occur, and then a little further back for others, 10, 15, 20, 30,000 years ago in there.
And there was probably a cascade of severances, you know, take the, there's this, my friend Eric recommended this Apple show called Severance to me, and it's quite interesting, I like it a lot.
I like the theme, the musical theme quite a bit as well, which turns out to have like what, a Riemannian geometry in it or something? Yeah, it's really trippy.
Anyway, in Severance, people opt in to get a medical procedure that severs, that turns them into two people, the person who gets in the elevator and goes to work at Lumen, Lumen, Corp.
Once they, when they're in the elevator, bloop, it switches over and they, and all their memories from inside Lumen turn on, and all their memories from outside Lumen turn off.
And so they're really two different people, inside Lumen, they know they have a life outside of it, but they can't remember anything whatsoever about it.
And it's something like this has happened to the human species, this is part of why the show is so provocative, I think.
I don't know whether Hillman would agree with me, but he and I could talk through that maybe someday.
There's a catastrophic loss of understanding and awareness of the entire history of the origin of our minds.
And we, moderns seem to think, which I find completely ridiculous, that our distant ancestors and even our relatively recent ancestors say three, four thousand years ago,
thought and spoke and lived and acted and behaved with the same kinds of minds we have today, same value systems, ideas and motivations and orientations, all this.
It's not possible. It's not possible that that was true.
It's hard to explain, but it's the difference between a surfboard and an aircraft carrier, right?
Think of the intimacy you experience with a surfboard in the water. It's you, the board, the water.
Think of the absolute lack of intimacy you experience with the water in an aircraft carrier.
And think of the difference in the motivations that two humans, one on a surfboard and one on an aircraft carrier, have in terms of relating with the water.
Now imagine that the water is consciousness, right?
We moderns are like the aircraft carrier, most of us, many of us, a lot of the time, not everybody.
Our ancestors, they were body surfing.
They were intimate with the waters of origin and consciousness and intelligence.
And they didn't have machines, but they were not merely superstitious either.
So we should be very careful before we suppose that their minds, and what they thought and saw when they looked at plants and animals,
at elements, at the sky, at the mountain, at the cloud, at the sun, at the moon, at the stars, at each other.
We should be very, very careful of thinking that they thought what we think or anything resembling what we think.
I would argue that it's basically impossible that they could have, and what they actually experienced was so staggeringly different
that they might as well have been from another universe, not merely another planet.
And I think Kilman's onto this fact. He's had some direct experience of this matter.
This is why he's promoting ancient Greek and teaching moderns to speak and read it.
Because he recognizes that there is a vehicle there that is as powerful as the Kaikyan or the Theriak,
as powerful as the experience that one has in near death.
I would argue that we moderns are hovering on the brink of near life experiences,
but we never quite fall over the cliff most of us, most of the time.
And this is why we might be inclined to seek intoxicants, drugs and alcohol, and also risk, high risk behaviors, and hedonism.
All these things because we're not happy hovering at the brink of life, a near life experience.
We also dwell in the era of weapons of mass instruction like the internet, Google, Twitter, Facebook, TikTok, YouTube, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And we're getting a lot of electronic stimulation, which draws us mostly further and further away from each other, the living world, our origins,
the possibilities of human transcendence and intelligence and all of these things.
So we're starving.
We are people.
Now look, this word we, I get it, it's a generalization, it's not true.
And I'm kind of taking the worst common denominator when I use the word where I'm saying we the moderns who suffer, we the lost generations and so forth.
And there are many among us and moments in each of us, phases, times and so forth situations where we are reconnecting with each other and the living world and our origins and time space, perhaps even intelligence and transcendence.
It's not all bad news, but it's a lot of bad news.
So we are knowledge, language has placed us in the most bizarre situation where you can imagine, I don't know, imagine humans who live in a garden of every kind of possible fruit and berry and root and herb.
Imagine that all the different varieties of animal meat actually just grows out of the ground and you don't have to kill animals to get it.
All the foods that we've ever had are all there, they are pure, they are organic, they are fresh, they are alive.
They are pleading with us to eat them because when we eat them, they join with us.
We live in this garden like this, but knowledge makes us absolutely blind to this fact.
And so what we do instead is we represent the things around us and then we engage in sort of a cargo cult like commerce with the tokenized representations of all that we've become divided by, not by our circumstance situation,
origin, lineage, nature, species or any of that, simply by an obfuscatory attrenching obfuscation in our cognitive, social and behavioral aspects.
This we call knowledge and particularly I call thrips.
These are processes, dead inside processes that capture humans at the group levels and are shockingly Darwinian in their malignantly aggressive urge,
or how should I put this, they're not beings, they don't have urges, they're proclivity to dominate the cognitive terrain that human minds represent and reproduce in it.
And in structure, the infrastructure that human cognition creates in a dimension invisible to us, demons would be better than these things that run us.
And what is a thrips? Well, Google is a thrips, cars are a thrips, nuclear weapons are a thrips. Money is probably one of the primordial thrips because the things that humans do have a sort of an extra dimension in which they can be representationally enacted, we can enact representations of them.
And money and virtual reality, the internet and so forth, these are things we are intimately familiar with even if we have grave difficulty talking about them articulately.
These are the things that troubled me as a child, as a young, as a teenager, as a young man, as a young adult in my middle age, and I committed myself to remembering them and learning how to articulate these situations well enough that we would have a chance.
To do something else together, to become something else together, to escape the prison that knowledge, language, culture and thrips comprise.
And Hillman is very much concerned with jailbreaking, let's be clear about this. He may have seen some of my media, he may not, he's super busy. He may have judged me because I have some familiarity with Aramaic and Hebrew and he may think, oh, Darren's just another hebraist.
No, it's not true, Arman. It's not true, bro. That just happened to be the first language that was used to teach me the principles, that's all. I acknowledge his contribution, not the contribution, but maybe even the primacy of the ancient Greek language.
He's right when he says this language will carry you across the abyss. He's not joking. Different ancient languages have this ability, not merely Greek, but what he's saying I think is that Greek among all of them is primordial and it actually doesn't matter whether he's right or not.
That's not, that's not what's at issue here. What's at issue here is, does the key unlock the cage? The cage of language and knowledge that our generations have been tortured within for millennia. Yes, yes, it does, yes. The Greek key unlocks the cage. It's true.
I have long said that if you learn an ancient language and particularly a language as complex enough to enact gametria, which Greek certainly is and does, you will see that the stuff we're using is crude in comparison, very crude.
That lilt of his, so the, the oaks, right? So he talks about the gaze as a power and he's absolutely right about this. In case you doubt him, study hypnosis and particularly mesmerism.
Talk to people like Marco Pirei or Lee Gerard Barlow or listen to them and they will show you that you can actually hypnotize someone with nothing more than your eyes, right? You can draw someone into trance with your gaze and they might not even have to see you for you to be able to do that.
The gaze is a projective ability. It's not a passive receptive thing. It can be a passive receptive thing and it can become that for us if we have no experience or do not practice the other forms.
And again, this is the kind of thing that Hillman will resurrect to our awareness.
Yes, yes, I know.
I remember the proselyte, but the proselyte does not remember me.
Nam Yohorengye Kil. Yeah, that's what he was selling.
Beautiful warm day here at the lake. Okay, so many topics. So, you know, one of the things that Hillman's kind of ticked off about is the, the Christian cribbing and or rip off.
Of death and resurrection, because it's not supposed to be. There's one thing Hillman will tell you is there's nothing like the Christian version of heaven and the afterlife.
What there is is the aonic life, which is something that you contact while you are alive and something that the ancient mysteries would introduce you to by bringing you to death while you were alive and then resurrecting you.
Or to near death while you were alive and then resurrecting you.
And I think there is a hilarious trope here.
The one that I mentioned earlier that we're all busy having a near life experience when a near death experience would be far more useful to us.
But there are experiences that don't directly involve death and yet introduce us to the, what we might call the aonic intelligences.
And these are the stuff of religion and also of magic, not the illusion kind.
But you can throw both of those things aside because these features of nature and what we could think of as the transcendental are intrinsic to your own body.
They belong to you. You belong to them. You belong to them more intimately than you do to your parents or species or genus or planet.
You belong to them far more fundamentally and this is what has been stolen.
I don't know if Hillman would agree with me, but this is what must be restored to our people.
The direct experience in understanding this, not stories, not knowledge with a K, with a capital K, not words.
The direct intimate experience like a kiss is intimate, intimacy with these origins in nature and the transcendental.
That are fundamentally the true legacy that is intrinsic to our human existence or origin, nature, potentials, dreams, hopes, all of these things.
I don't know where he got his lilt that it sounds a little bit Southern Cal surfer stonerish, but I don't think it really, I don't think that's where it came from.
I'd be surprised anyway. And it's very contagious.
I found myself emulating it, particularly even unconsciously emulating it when I was waxing didactic in my walk-in talks and it's so much fun to impersonate.
Yeah, I love his enthusiasm and the lilt. It's very contagious and I had to consciously work to keep it from thoroughly infecting my speech patterns.
There's a sort of back of the nose closure in the sinuses.
Oh, yeah. Beautiful. I love it. Love it. Yeah. Gorgeous. Oh, God.
Yeah, this kind of thing. I just, it's so much fun.
But it's very contagious and that's part of his magic. He is a magician, not in the sense of an illusionist, a magician in the sense of one who has intimate relationships with the dead and perhaps other epochs of humans.
I mean, he will straight up tell you that his muse is a dead girl from the bronze age, no, a dead girl who bronze age ritual practices connected him to, brought into his relational environs.
And these practices are particularly, I think, forms of Bibliomancy that he refers to as necromancy.
I'm not sure that word deserves the connotations that it has acquired in modernity.
There's so much to learn and to rediscover. What we think of as knowledge is mostly a trap and the way our language contorts our cognition into its least effective capacities and behaviors is not merely tragic.
It's more than merely criminal. It's terrifying and tyrannical.
And we live and die. Most of us completely unaware of this. We're just held in the sway of these processes.
And when someone comes along who threatens to free us, most of the time what happens is the polis or the lack of an actual educated polis, the mob, they execute them.
You know, an angel I once knew said to me, last time we sent, the last time, this isn't actually true, but it's still an interesting joke.
The last time we sent a guy to break you out of the prison, he nailed him to a tree and killed him. This time we're sending everybody, which is a very fascinating promise.
Whether or not we take it literally, because what is meant is you and me.
And I'm not trying to start a religion or a cult or anything like that. I don't care for those constructs at all.
You know, I think Hillman, pretty sure he's a deep believer in democratic liberty. The actual stuff, not the commodified, you know, Walmart version.
People defend him sometimes in comments on my videos about him. And they don't really, I think they haven't listened to the video.
They're just looking at what I wrote and they get their panties in a knot or whatever.
And they're like, he's not mad. Look, he's mad. He's not merely mad. He's a genius.
I mean, anybody who's spent that long studying ancient Greek is going to be partly mad and partly a genius.
And he'll be the first to claim there's lots of things he doesn't know.
He loves to get together with others who have knowledge and, you know, kind of spin the bottle relationally and cognitively and intellectually and inspirationally.
That's what the real stuff looks like when we do that together.
Yeah, I think he's totally brilliant. I think he's partly mad.
You know, one of the problems, so there's this, there's this Greek idea called Theoria, which Owen Barfield introduces.
And I've mentioned this many times in my recordings, but effectively it's the capacity to give you a way of seeing that doesn't concern itself with whether it's true or not.
Its value does not lie in its verity. Its value lies in its capacity to bring you to insight so that you see new ways.
You see aspects of potential and situation that were previously invisible to you.
The same way that a certain kind of sunglasses that hides color.
See, this is the problem with our language, our culture, our societies and our situation.
They place a layered array of lenses that blind us more and more and more to that garden I was talking about earlier until out of absolute desperation we cleave to the tokenized representations of all that is right next to our hand.
We could reach out and drink it, kiss it, adore it, eat it, relate with it, be it, become it, share it, grow beyond it together at any moment, but we're very busy relating with these representations, right?
Because we've been deprived of our awareness of our nature and situation by these lenses that we call knowledge and language, but are primarily thrips, deleterious thrips, dangerous, impoverishing thrips.
So, you know, Hillman doesn't have the same nomenclature, but he knows exactly what I'm talking about.
And this is one of the reasons why I find him fascinating and why I speak about him lately, because yes, there are many other people like him, Weinstein and Schmockenberger.
They might not agree that he's even interesting. That's fine with me. I don't care who agrees.
What I care about is people who are working in their daily lives and their intellectual, relational and transcendent aspects to forge keys to the prison.
That's what I'm concerned about. That's what I'm trying to do. That's what I'm interested in, primarily.
I mean, other than just mutual adoration, liberation and answering the dreams of our ancestors, bringing those dreams to fruition together.
That's something I believe in, and not as a religion.
So yeah, we have these lenses, and one of the things that Hillman is saying is that the ancient Greek language obliterates those blinders.
It gives us lenses that actually allow us to see beyond time and identity and to see beyond what the grim leavings that we normally swarm around of the thrips, those processes, that eat up everything alive and spit out wrapping paper.
And plastic garbage and things. Endless, lethal, dead terrains in which there's nothing alive or meaningful to relate with.
It's a little bit hard for me to imagine. Weinstein might value Hillman. I don't know. They're so different in their motivations and orientations and value systems, perhaps.
And let's be really clear. Hillman is a... I mean, he's pro... In a way, he's very pro hedonistic, I think. Pro intoxication.
He's not really... I wouldn't classify him as pro drug. He just wants us to see how central, like metaphysically associated intoxicants were to the ancient Greeks and the peoples of that time.
How common they were. How important they were. How central to their lives and thought and concerns.
Yes, he's angry that the weird death and resurrection stories of the Christians are basically stealing something from the mysteries and lying about it.
Because the actual death and resurrection is meant to happen while you're here, not later. It's not a metaphysical resurrection in his view.
Now, I think the actual situation is extremely complex and probably isn't a single way. Both things can be true, right? Like, there can be the death and resurrection that one is subjected to or participates in while alive in the mysteries.
And at the same time, there can be an aonic or ionic transmission of something similar to the soul between lives or into a relational domain outside of time and so forth at death.
We have lots of stories from people who have died and returned to life. Of course, those people are challenged to fit their experiences into the language and knowledge that exists and that creates the boundary conditions of speech.
Very difficult. But, you know, some people have had a go at it. That famous neurosurgeon whose name escapes me at the moment is one of them. And perhaps I myself, in my own way, am one.
Though I didn't actually die. There are, I mean, the nature of our existence is myriad. It's not singular. It's not like there's one thing. And if anything's obvious, think about what the meaning of birth is.
Okay, you get a human body, but what are there like 900 trillion variables that have a determinative influence on what that means and how that works out and what that path is like? Yes.
So, is birth the same thing for everyone? Well, generally it's the same thing for everyone. Specifically, it's never the same thing for anyone. And this is one of the weird dangers of language.
And the other is that denotation tends to rule consciousness, thought, I mean. But connotation rules our understanding, right? It's metaphor that we use to understand things. It's likeness. This is like that with these transformations.
Our entire way of being cognitive is fundamentally dependent on metaphor and likeness and analogy, not on separate denotative identity, the way we pretend it is.
You know, I think Hillman is a huge fan of the possibilities of an actual democracy, which is nothing like, very little like what we've seen enacted under that rubric.
And look, I don't need to just talk about Hillman all the time. I've got many, many other concerns and priorities and perspectives, but I find him fascinating, inspiring, sometimes hilarious, entertaining.
So, you know, and I have a variety of criticisms that I could level toward him. I'm just not highly motivated to do so. You know, I can imagine others doing so.
Too often in our modern existence, we think, am I in favor of something or do I oppose it? Is it true or is it false?
Well, how many one-winged birds have you ever seen fly? I mean, in the mind, what you have is a situation where the more wings you have, the more domains you can fly in simultaneously.
And Hillman's a wing returner. He's someone who's trying to put wings back on us that have been snipped off by English and a narytmological tyranny and religion and so forth.
So, yeah, I think of him as a cognitive activist and a very active one. That guy's producing content every day. It's his full-time job. That's brilliant and amazing.
He's giving us, he's giving away for free the education, an array of educational assets that would be very difficult to buy anywhere on earth.
You couldn't buy them because there's nobody like him. The guy has become a living library, right?
And that's one of the most beautiful things a human being can do is to become that and just give the milk of his intelligence and experience and understanding and awareness and concern and brilliance to the starving children.
That we moderns comprise. Amazing. Beautiful. I love it. Oh, God. Yeah.
You know, you hear all these maxims, nearly none of which are reasonably enacted. We're all in this together. Hillman's acting like that's actually true. That's a beautiful thing. That's a noble thing.
You don't have to sit around trying to figure out whether he's right or not. Follow him down some trails and see if you benefit. You will. Every time.
There's no way that learning amazing things about ancient Greek is not going to enrich your mind, your awareness, your capacity for free thought, your philosophical thought, for evaluation, for analysis, for wonder, for curiosity, for awe, for playfulness, for joy.
And for terror. No way. He's giving away for free the things that cannot be bought. And in my view, that's a messianic behavior, right?
I don't have to decide whether he's right. I don't have to decide whether he's telling the truth. I don't have to decide whether I agree with them.
None of those, if someone's handing you food for your soul and your mind, you don't have to sit there trying to figure out whether they're right, whether they're crazy or any of that.
You can just taste the food and see if it lifts you up. It's just like somebody who's drowning being thrown life preservers, right?
You see that they float? You don't have to care who's throwing them because they help you float. They keep you alive. They rescue your mind and your memory and your dreaming.
They catalyze an amnesis, remembering the graces of mimosany and muses. All these things matter. These are vital and beautiful, human, transcendental and exquisite.
Thank you for joining me. Take a moment to comment, share, ask a question, yell at me, or make a contribution on my Patreon or PayPal.
I can't wait to have a chance in the near future to explore and learn together again. Pretty soon you're going to be treated to a recording of one of the Extinction Audit meetings, a portion of it, in which we discuss some related matters.
So yeah, so grateful for this time together and the opportunity to learn and see, to be mutually inspired, to remember, to lift each other up.
Thanks for joining me. May your way be beautiful, blessed, and healing. Peace for now.
