you
you
you
Tells
you
Test, test.
Can you hear me?
Yes, I can hear you.
Great.
Okay, I can hear you.
Wait.
All right, we have a recording going, I think.
Yep, it says recording.
All right, so the topic of UFOs, you recently said you don't think that the E.T. hypothesis
is the, how would you call it?
The explanation, right, and you didn't say, it's no part of the answer, what you said
is it's not the whole answer.
Right.
Yeah.
And I also would like to add that I don't think that every single instance of UFO sightings
is automatically related.
I think that it could be many different instances, they could be totally unique, similar to the
way that crabs have popped up evolutionarily on their own, you know, through different
pathways.
Yeah.
It's just, the anomalous nature of it, people tend to connect them, but it's very possible
that they're separate things.
Yes.
Unless we're talking about like tic-tacs and, you know, similar geometry, but that could
also just be plays on human perception, like, I don't know, there's so many different avenues.
Yes.
All right.
So, you know, we presently, we have this catch-all phrase called the phenomena.
I think phenomenon is the singular and phenomena, I always get this wrong.
I confuse the two words, I can't tell the difference between the singular and the plural.
I didn't know there was a difference.
Yeah.
Because one of these words refers to something specific, like a phenomena.
Right.
And the phenomenon is a catch-all phrase to refer to the broad array of non-ordinary experiences
reported by humans that relate to NHIs, abduction, UFO sightings, orbs, and also a variety of
other high strangeness events involving synchronicity, the observation by humans of what we might
call hybrid phenomena, which, you know, things like the Sphinx are examples of, or a wolf
man, right?
These are examples of hybrid phenomena.
They are things we might think of as liminal in the sense that they are between the consistency
of the waking world and the transcendent malleability of the imagination and the dreaming mind.
They are also in the liminal space of the finitude of our humanity and the transcendent
aspects of our humanity, both of which exist simultaneously, right?
We are neither entirely finite, and if we are entirely finite, then we are not experiencing
our humanity.
And if we are entirely transcendent, we are also not experiencing our humanity.
These things were discussed a bit in the podcast I was listening to yesterday about AI danger.
Very intelligently, I liked a lot of what John Verveke was saying.
So let me be really clear.
I've been fascinated by UFOs since I was a child.
This is probably primarily due to having read a lot of science fiction, but not merely having
read a lot of science fiction.
I think the thing that humans don't understand very well at all, and if they did understand
it better, lots of different things would go well, would go much better for us.
And that thing is we are science fiction.
When you are born as a human infant, there are 30 branches of science fiction history
that are being embodied and enacted as you as a human infant, right?
So if we understood that we are science fiction, we would stop getting really shocked when
science fiction starts happening.
It's the expectation of the rational continuity of identity, function, origin, relationship,
this expectation is the problem and is very blinding, even though it is also very useful
where it is useful.
It's extremely useful if your goal is to make a bunch of machines, right?
If your goal is to have a bunch of relationships, not as useful at all, depending on the mode
of the relationships.
All right, I'm going to come back to this.
I need to take a bit of a break.
So what I'd like you to do for the next couple of minutes is just talk about the origins
of your own interest and your current thought about the topic, and I will be back shortly.
Cool, I'd be happy to.
Okay, well, geez.
I think the first place my mind goes to is when I was a child and I was in my room and
I think the number that I've used when I've told this story before is like six or seven
or eight, somewhere around there, but truly, it's, you see, this memory seems to exist
in a vacuole of its own.
It's like quarantined off because as a kid, I was already just so sure that science fiction
and any sort of fairy tale-like things could not happen.
That stuff was on the TV or it was in books, and I was living normal, I have to pay taxes
when I'm older, I have to get a job, like these were the things I was already thinking
about as a kid, so certainly having unexplained phenomenon, I just didn't know what to do
with it, so I largely discarded it.
And so what happened was I woke up and there were blue orbs all over my room and they were
coming towards me and when they made contact with my skin, it produced an electrical pulse
and it wasn't painful, but it was uncomfortable and I wasn't sure what was happening and so
it was an unpleasant experience of having these electrical impulses touch my skin.
And eventually, you know, I put the covers over my head and they would go through the
blanket and after that, I just couldn't take it anymore and so I ran to my parents' room,
which also like running through the bubbles themselves, but I figured that it was fine
and I ended up curling up in between the two of them and the bubbles followed me into the
room and continued to, you know, be, continue to shock me and I woke up the next day and
went to school and that was just kind of an isolated moment in my life.
And I kind of largely forgot about it until this summer, last summer, summer of 2023,
I was introduced to Whitley Strieber's book, the one with the alien on it that people see it and
they go, whoa, I've seen this before. That's not what happened to me. It was just in the
process of thinking about screen memories and contact with alien life that this memory re-emerged
from my childhood and it felt significant. I was like, holy shit, this is, you know,
I do have anomalous things that happened as a kid and I'm sure there was more that I don't
remember, but at least I have this one. And so that, in addition to the fact that I've been
asking what is going on since, you know, sixth grade, I'm just generally confused about reality
and the way that the humans seem to be going. And yeah, that was all just jumbling around
in my head and so I've been ever curious and then disclosure stuff started to happen
coincidentally with that. So it was like a nice little precursor to then people talking about this
on the news. And that's when I decided to start taking leaps into parapsychology and exploring
consciousness and tightly held belief systems that I thought possibly don't need to be held
on as tightly anymore. So brilliant story from your childhood. I strongly suspect that
lots of humans, maybe the majority of them, undergo profound non-ordinary experiences
in childhood. And then something weird happens and it gets shut down.
And it gets shut down, I think primarily so that the children don't experience
like ejection from the possibilities of their social humanness. Because they're in a culture
and a zeitgeist that's gonna fuck with them really hard if they have. See, here's the problem.
You're not supposed to have experiences that are personally authorized.
You are not supposed to quote unquote go ahead. I just said interesting. Yeah.
See an experience like that is personally authorized. Who is the authority of the
identity in the experience? You are. Under what other conditions are you the authority?
Well, psychosis, schizophrenia, paranoia, megalomania, various forms of madness suddenly
promote your authorization vector to, you know, the sky. But one of the things that I think humans
don't think about really at all in relation to this is this topic we're on right here
that we have kind of stumbled into, which is under what conditions are you the authority?
And for children, there's only, there's a very few conditions under which this may be so.
And primarily those are conditions of play with other children
or conditions of imagination. So there's something very weird here. When I was like
I don't know my exact age. I'm going to guess it's between four and seven.
And one night I was falling asleep and suddenly I became a glowing green sphere of light above my
body. And I made if I floated around the room making a circuit and I could sense the structure
and danger of the electrical wires inside the walls as if they were lit and I could see through
the walls. And after the experience, obviously I went to the authority, you know, my mom,
and I said, you know, I had this experience. And she said, oh, don't worry about that. It's just a
dream. And I was quite emphatic that it was not a dream. But she just kept, you know, doubling down
on her, which is natural for parents. They are, you know, my mom was concerned. I think she was,
my mom was unusually minded. My dad was differently unusually minded. They both probably had concerns,
different concerns, that I would be unusually minded like them. And this would cause problems
for me in my life. So, you know, they tended to stick to the basic narrative of things. But,
you know, when I was seven or eight, we had a copy of Eric Von Donikin's
chariots of the gods in the house. We watched, you know, science fiction stuff on TV and
stuff about UFOs. We watched them in landings when I was a kid, which I want to be absolutely
clear. I believe actually took place. Not that my beliefs are particularly important.
I've always believed it took place. Yeah, I saw it on TV and I understand that it could be simulated.
And I even, I'm even willing to suppose that parts of it were simulated. What I'm not willing to
suppose is that the landers aren't on the lunar surface and that they didn't carry humans there.
But, you know, it's conceivable I could be convinced otherwise under, you know,
under the right circumstances. So let me continue.
My father had out of body experiences as a child. They terrified him. His aunt told him,
oh, just pray to Jesus and it'll go away. That turned out to work. So he didn't continue to explore.
Tom Campbell, Bob Monroe's one of his closest friends who thinks the universe is a
what? A complex rendered illusion. I can't use the word simulation even though he does
because the dumb thing that these people do that bothers me a lot is they'll say the universe
is a simulation, but they won't say what it's a simulation of. Right. Yeah, that makes sense.
There's no such thing as a simulation of nothing. Right. It's just a simulation
that's impossible. There's no such thing. There has to be a simulation of something.
What they mean, it actually isn't a simulation. Oh, shit.
Must be a lot of wind noise. If I can fix this without.
Are you still there? Yeah, absolutely. Great. I should cut the wind noise down significantly,
hopefully. I wasn't expecting any wind noise. Oh, good. Great. Yeah.
Yeah. So what they mean is
the universe is like a video game. It's being projected. It's not really there.
So like what Tom Campbell thinks, I'll get back to why I mentioned him in a moment.
I don't like what he thinks at all, but what he thinks is there's no brain inside your skull
unless we open up your skull and then the universe renders that shit.
You follow? I follow. So he's like observers cause the universe to render,
which is a really weird idea. Now, there could be something to that idea,
but I think Tom's particular cosmology is almost certainly wrong.
That's just my personal bias. But he said that
when he was a little kid, he was given a series of tests
when he was traveling out of body. And it was around age seven. This happened to him, by the way.
And this is a commonly reported age.
Um, and then he completely forgot about them. No recollection of them whatsoever until he's like,
I don't know, early thirties or something. He meets Bob Monroe. They start doing
OBE experiments and shit with actual, you know, equipment and stuff. They've got EEGs and shit
hooked up. And Bob comes in one morning and tells him, um, you know, last night I was put through a
series of tests. Here's the first one. Here's the second one. And Tom goes, and here's the third
one and the fourth one. And Bob's like, the fuck were you there? And Tom was like, no, I suddenly
remember that I went through the same sequence of tests when I was a child and I had no recollection
of it until just now. Um, so this is all very interesting. Now back to the UFO phenomena,
you know, we have the problem of high strangeness. Um, and by the way, do you know who Jacques
Valle is? I've heard the name. So he's a preeminent UFO researcher who's been on the job since
like the late forties or something, right? Um, Frenchman lives here in the city. Uh,
and my roommate built his website. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, Mike Resil. So, um,
what's going on here?
Oh, I see.
So, uh, most of the people who've long been involved in researching the phenomena
do not believe that it's an ordinary kind of thing at all. Um, in other words,
not only can it not be encompassed by some specific category like aliens, interdimensional beings,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. It's so weird that, and we're going to get to some interesting
terrain here right quick. Um, it's so weird that it looks like something is playing with us,
right? It's like toying with human consciousness from one perspective. Um, there's all kinds of
inconsistencies and Valle has, you know, proposed some very astonishing theories,
one of which is that, um, crop circles are primarily a human tech and they're not,
they're not people out in fields with boards making circles in the wheat. They are a,
they're orbital energy technology that can write in organic systems from the sky, a human technology.
Now, there's a lot of mess here and the mess is because it's not like one thing happens.
It's not like, of course, occasionally it does. You know, Joe goes out in the field and sees a UFO
and goes home and cries to his wife about it or whatever. Um, that, that happens, but mostly
what happens is all kinds of weird shit, right? Um, Joe has a dream where dolls are talking to him,
um, three days later there's a UFO encounter, four days after that, animals are acting weird
towards him and either attracted or repulsed, right? Like there's a, there's, there's a timeline
of fucking weirdness that is commonly associated with the phenomenon. Um,
um,
there's a guy on the experiencers subred named Connor, he was by Oak Dright.
He's one of the mods for experiencers and he's been talking to experiencers all over the planet
for quite some time, spending most of every day doing just that one thing.
Um, so he's probably an interesting cat. There's another guy named Allen Steinfeld who I know,
uh, at least peripherally, who's been talking to people in the metaphysical UFO, magical and
shamanic communities for like, I don't know, 40 years, has interviewed thousands of people.
He must be a very weird little human library, right? Yeah. Because the problem is,
it kind of, the, the topic is sticky. If you really start paying attention to it,
a variety of unlikely, seemingly unlikely things become likely. For example, that it starts paying
attention to you. Right. Um, so there are all these features and it's not just UFOs. It's the
whole fucking gamut of non-ordinary experience of which UFOs are like one branch on a very complex
tree, right? And honestly, aren't even the most interesting. I mean, they kind of are in a way.
I've, I've found them super fascinating long before they were a cult. So that shit started to
become a cult with little dolls of aliens and fucking, you know, memes and emojis and shit in
the nineties. Um, but before that, it wasn't a cult yet. I mean, there were, okay, to be clear,
there were cult like branches within the communities, but mostly it wasn't a cult.
It was people trying to understand the fuck was going on and people having had experiences and
talking to each other about them. Um, but I've been fascinated by it since I was about seven.
I've seen a couple of few things in my life in, in the sky that I don't know what the fuck those
were. Um, one of the things seemed likely to be, uh, something related to craft. Okay.
But I'm going to branch off the topic for a moment before I, before I do, I'll say one thing.
Um,
I have a book that has like 2000 reports in it, uh, from 1950 onward. It's called the UFO evidence.
I've read a good thousand reports. Just, you know, here's the report of what happened,
these people said happened to them. And, um, it seems clear that some of those things
certainly seem like spaceships. What they're on, what the ontological facts of their,
their category are, I don't know, right? But there's some, you know, there's a segment
of the phenomena that seems like spaceships with things, you know, beings inside them,
beings who come out and communicate to humans. And, you know, it, it looks like
it's either ETH, you know, extraterrestrial hypothesis or it's, um, interdimensional entities,
projections. But now I want to leap right outside that whole thing and talk about two
features. The first is, you know, earlier in our conversation, we were talking about
guardians of the structure of time space or, um, the custodians of living planets.
Think with me for a moment about a syllogism. Uh, as bees are to flowers and honey,
X is to living worlds and Z.
Do you, do you want me to fill in the blanks? Give it a shot. We could be here for hours.
As bee, as bees are to flowers and honey, X is to worlds and Z.
Yeah. Now look, the important thing here isn't to give an answer.
Mm hmm. Right. Though you're welcome to have a go at it if that's pleasing to you.
I think it would take too long. Fair enough. The, um, the syllogism is a key to a
perspective. It is the perspective that is valuable, not the answer.
And there are lots of syllogisms like this where if you look at nature and you realize like, huh,
you know, water is to fish as X is to intelligence. Right.
Mm hmm. Then you can start to see that nature is kind of a library of hypostasis or analogies.
Or it can be seen this way. I find that trees all the time. Say again.
Trees, just their very structure are wonderful. Yeah, that's fucked up. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, our languages are based on trees. All of our, um, systems of processing data and
identity are based on trees. Right. The whole fucking cognate like our nervous systems, um,
our circulatory systems, uh, fucking river deltas, like the whole damn thing. The tree is such a
fundamental metaphor or not metaphor, like, um, what I would call the superior for.
Mm hmm. You know, the beyond the meta for.
So let me just be really clear about something. You think you know what a raccoon is.
Sure. If you see a raccoon, you will think that is a raccoon.
Mm hmm. You will think you know what it is. Right. And you will think you can imagine it's
likely behavioral profile. Right. It may be curious about you if it feels threatened,
it may threaten back or flee. Um, but there are three things you won't think. You will not think
three seconds from now, that being will be speaking into my mind and it will show me the
history of its people. You will not think that's not actually a raccoon. That's a fucking walk-in
from another universe. Mm hmm. And if you are thinking these things, you're probably in either
intoxicated or in an already non-ordinary state. Um, but there is, it turns out, a story where a
raccoon led a man talk to him in his mind. Like, okay, the man was going to encounter aliens,
but what he encountered first was a talking fucking raccoon. Mm hmm. Okay. So, you know,
what do talking raccoons have to do with spaceships? I don't fucking know. He didn't know. No one knows.
I mean, not no one, but we don't know. So there's this really weird playful aspect of the phenomena,
but what I'm trying to get at is something tricky here. Um,
because we are representational cognitives, we believe in static identity. There is no such thing.
It exists only in our thought and language. A raccoon is not a raccoon. A tree is not a tree.
This place is not a place. The sky is not the sky. You are not Nathan. I am not Darren.
And, like, from the perspective of non-aristatelian logic, if you want any shot at intelligence,
what you're going to do as your first move is deny the explicitness of the excluded middle forms
of identity that humans are trained to use. The most intelligent thing. I was going to say, because
I have been fascinated by language for, like, obsessed with language recently.
And I've found that as I've been focusing my intention on non-ordering experience,
poetry, and experimenting with language in a fluid way where I don't take the immediate
literal sense of the word. I try to bend and break it and expose its multi-dimensionality.
Like, that is a constant exercise that's running even in my dreams now. And so it's almost like,
as soon as I was like, okay, I'm ready to start experiencing these things more, I immediately
started playing with, like, okay, what you see is not actually what you see. And so you say,
it's just like, oh, this is the direction. And it coincides so much with speaking to you and
when, like, making contact with you. I follow. There is a book called Science and Sanity by
Alfred Korzybski. You want to get an preferably an old copy of this book, which you can probably
could be had for nearly no money. If need be, I'll have one sent to you. This will teach,
it's very difficult reading, but it will teach you another way of interacting with
representational cognition that's fundamentally better. And it's, you know, in Aristotelian
logic, syllogistically, A equals A, right? A tree is never not a tree. It is never both a tree and a man.
And what Korzybski does is nullify the years of identity, whatever that might be, it cannot be a
tree. A tree is a label. It is a static thing. That thing is neither static nor label. There is
that thing has infinite qualities, infinite. It has infinite kinds of qualities. Why would you
deceive yourself by believing that you know what it is? Because you know its name. And so
we have this non Aristotelian substrate to the nature of reality that all of human cognition
opposes. I mean, if you can imagine trying to like eat the moon, or add salt to the ocean or
something, this is the kind of project that human rep cog is, right? We're going to reduce this all
to syllogistic equations and we'll validate them and then we'll know everything wrong. You're going
to get you're going in the wrong fucking direction, a great direction to make machines
with a shitty direction to understand the nature of what's happening. Why is that? Because the
nature of what's happening is fundamentally relation. And what that means is I don't know
what I will become. I don't know who I will become when you and I are together. Because when you and
I are together, I am different from when I am on my own. Yes. So imagine that an angel, a genie,
a gin, and a deva are all the same damn thing. What are they? A superposition over specific
identity? Okay, then why do we have these different names for them? Here's why. Because if you if you
interact with them on the basis of your greed, what you want them to give you or do for you,
they become genies or demons. And if you interact with them on the basis of your recognition
of a fundamentally beautiful mission that all beings share, then they become angels.
Wow. So maybe the UFO phenomenon isn't anything. It's a superposition of identity.
Of confusion. Say again. Of confusion. Yes, but it's the confusion of the humans
trying to interact with it as if it's a thing. Right? So it's just reflecting that confusion
back to them. It's like, Oh, you think I'm a thing? Well, today I'm a raccoon. Tomorrow I'm an alien.
Tomorrow, Bob's your uncle. Yeah. Like, you know, like anything. Oh, you bring a gun. Okay, I'm a
fucking weapon. Right? You're shooting guns at me, then I become a weapon. Wow. So it just obviously,
like all of nature is like this. If you go to a tree, and by the way, I strongly recommend
something to everyone, but you particularly, since this recording will probably be,
you know, we'll probably do something with it. I'll put it online or something with your permission,
of course. Sure. Yeah. So, you know, what you want to do is you want to form a deep
personal relationship with at least one tree, and preferably the same tree again and again.
All right, just meet that, meet that being, understand it as a being treated as a being
treated as if you can communicate with it with your mind and your heart,
particularly your heart, and form a relationship with it. And, you know, ask what you can do to
help it, bring it little offerings of love or communion, that could be a glass of water,
something that you value, a clip of your hair,
some a little ball of earth that you made into a ball with your hands and put your
heart into. You leave it there with the tree so that you bide with the tree in that way.
You know, form a relationship with a tree. What you're going to find out is that you don't
fucking know what trees are. And you will keep finding that out over time,
door and more and more deeply. What you won't find out is that, oh, I had the right idea about trees.
There are zero situations in which that's what will ensue. I mean, unless you're just a fucking pure
idiot, right, in the sense of believing your rep cog thrifts about trees.
So all of the phenomena, the humans are really, they're doing something kind of loopy
that they don't understand, which is they think that what we refer to as the phenomenon,
even if we limit the scope to UFOs, they think they know what shit is.
They're going to find out the knowledge you not know what shit is, shit isn't.
And it will show you that it isn't and it will specifically show you that it isn't what you
think it is, if it's intelligent at all. And what the humans don't understand is the thing they call
a mind is literally like, imagine, there's a tributary on a river, that's the only river there is.
And that mind is a tributary on the river. So if the mind, if that tributary encounters
another tributary, either you will recognize and behave as unity. You'll be like, ah, this is my own
origin. This is my own future. Or you will act like you're separate and try to dominate the
other tributary, in which case bad things are going to happen to you. Well, you're going to undergo
a series of lethal confusions, whether or not bad things happen, you know. So I mean, every situation
is unique. So what if the phenomenon doesn't have a specific identity at all, but adopts identity
based on the human imperatives that they, that specific people or organizations bring to relate
with it with. And what you'll know, yes, the human, the phenomenon doesn't have an identity,
but adopts various features of identity based on the purposes and intentions
that the humans bring when they interact with it in some way.
So this is, this is a question I have for you, because I've been thinking about altruism and
it's, and just how powerful it can be, not powerful in a domineering way, but just in a way of,
I don't know, that having, having so many other beings on your side just through the act of giving
and, I don't know, being peaceful and harmonious. What traditionally I think of nature as this like
lethal place where everything is in competition. And I would like to believe that, you know,
things could just be all altruistic and we could all just vibe and be peaceful. But I think just
by the very nature of like tributaries meeting, there's always like, if there's gonna be turbulence,
there's gonna be turbulence. And so that's just something you learn to roll with. But I'm curious
what your thoughts are on altruism and competitiveness with this idea of tributaries.
Beautiful. Great question. I am,
Hi. I'm commonly impressed by the integrity of your concern and thoughtful intelligence.
Oh, thank you. I am very, very happy that we're speaking all the time. It's for great.
It's a, it's a kind of a, well, it's, there's two tributaries meeting right here, right?
Yeah, there we go. You know, we're, we're having this thing where we're, the things we are saying
are what we are doing. You see, that's very strange. And by the way, there's a thing like that.
Okay. If the things that we are saying, because it's very difficult to say this,
if we are saying the things that we are relationally doing and the saying of them becomes
involved in the doing of them, we are doing something that resembles lucid waking.
Right. We are bringing a non-ordinary feature of the possibility of rep cog into our moment
to moment experience in the same way that the recognition in a dream, right? It's like, okay,
what is, okay, yeah, this is a great syllogism that I never thought of before.
The recognition that you are dreaming is to dreaming as the recognition that you are X is
to waking. Hmm. Yeah. Right. That's interesting. This is the key to lucid waking.
Wow. And it's funny. Wow. What a mind fuck because I've been trying so hard
and I say trying loosely to lucid dream. And in that process, my waking experience has been
unbelievably lucid. And my dreaming experience has been unbelievably like,
it's like a circus in there. It's like someone cranked up the crazy levels. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So it's just, it's funny how in trying to lucid dream, it's just, it's going in a direction that I
did not intend. You weren't expecting. Yeah. Yeah. It's a brilliant analogy. I love the
circus analogy and I get it too. Yeah, that's fucking trippy. But just notice that there is,
there are things we can do and learn together to help each other discover the experience of
lucid waking. And one of those things turns out to be naturally altruistic behavior.
Now, if we're trying to be altruistic, you can see that there's already kind of a conflict there.
In a way, it's like trying to go to sleep. Right. Because part of you has to kind of go away
for you to be truly altruistic. I got very lucky yesterday.
There was a, there was a tiny, I don't even know how to say this. There was a tiny apocalypse
going on and I was able to avert it. It was, it was a bee drowning in the lake.
And so I engage in this behavior that I call bee rescue. Bees are very sensitive to temperature,
pollution, various other things. And here in the city, they can become exhausted very easily.
And when they're exhausted and they land on the ground, if someone doesn't help them,
they may get crushed before they can get back into the sky. Does that make sense?
Yes. But if you pick them up, your hand is very warm. And that warmth will reanimate them.
And soon they will start preening. And after a period of intense preening, they will go back into
the sky. And it's a very exciting thing to participate in. Because in a way,
right, what really weirdly happens, remember everything we've talked about so far,
that what you bring to a relationship changes what you become and what the other thing is.
So when you're trying to rescue another being's life, in a way, you guys exchange lives and
somehow you become the thing that's rescued. When that bee flew out of my hand yesterday,
and I had no reason to believe it could because, first of all, it was soaked.
Secondly, it was exhausted. Thirdly, it looked like one of its wings was injured, which is,
you know, that's a no-go. That bee ain't gonna fly. So I got her out of the water and I was talking
to her and I was like, well, you know, you're not gonna drown right now, but I'm not sure we
can get you back into the sky sweetheart. And she just started preening and I got really into it.
And I gave that bee my whole fucking soul. I was like, I was just sitting there holding it and crying
preening and trying so hard. And I was like, God, you know, I believe in you.
You're beautiful. You're fucking amazing. I love your people. You know, you've served the world so
brilliant. Like I was having a fucking religious moment over a bee in my hand. That's so beautiful.
And I literally just lost my shit entirely. I started bawling and in the park, like people
were walking by me, like crying my eyes out. It was a little bee in my hand, right?
And when she got back into the sky, it was like my soul had been released from hell or something,
right? It was just like the most triumphant fucking moment of my entire life or some, you know, it was
like way over the importance of the moment transcended everything about my common experience. Does
that make sense? Yeah, yeah, absolutely. It was really a moment of ecstasis, right?
Now, I'm not telling the story to pump up my altruism or to seem heroic or to seem special
or anything. Actually, what's incredible is the bee, not nature. But true altruism
kind of requires that you get out of your own way, right? It's not like you're absent,
but your ego is absent. I remember a story. A man was in a mall, right? And somehow he looks up
three stories above him and he sees like a three year old boy. Oh, wow, that's great.
Great. The little kid grabs on to the rail of the downward escalator
and the rail lifts the kid off the ground and then just drops him into free space,
right? And the guy catches the kid. And, you know, later people, you know, he's trying to talk to
people and they're like, oh my God, you're a fucking hero, you know, blah, blah. And he looks
really confused and he says something super important that's actually much weirder than it sounds.
He says, I wasn't trying to do anything. I just did what anyone would do.
And that's a really weird thing because what he means is I did what no one would do. I did what
a no personal identity involved would do. I just naturally did the doing.
All right. So it's okay to play it being altruistic. You don't have to be perfect.
And I think it's really useful and brilliant to play it being altruistic.
The same way that we play it right in poems, like writing a really brilliant poem
is a very strange thing. It's like you're mostly a ghost, but there's three parts of
you that are still there and they're kind of manipulating the framework. Or you're just
missing in action and they're fucking automatic writing like the surrealists.
I've done both and they produce very similar results and people's like, whoa, like, oh my God,
thank you so much. This is amazing. Yeah, that's the thing though. You're doing it for other people
in real time. So that's super magic right now because their whole ancestral line is going to
use you as a fucking trans channel. You see what I'm getting at? I'm not saying that's a
mind fuck. Holy shit. Yeah. Yeah, their whole ancestral line goes like, oh, there's a fucking
poet. Hey, everybody, come over here. Let's see what we can get him to say. So yeah, that's
really profound. Yeah. No, this kind of shit is truly magical. This is why various kinds of
performance art and instant improvisation are actually reality transforming to engage in.
And I believe in them as form, you know, as profound forms of human behavior that I
that when they're good, I certainly trust them. And when they're shitty, I can tell.
Like you can totally tell if you're watching someone's ego, rather than their like dreaming
aspect, gently being invoked into the waking experience of our lives.
All right, so there is something I think like a shared mission. And the simplest encoding
of it is rescue everybody now to save the whole thing, save anything you can fucking save right
now. Just do it. You know, that's a simple encoding in language. Another encoding that I love a lot
is one of my favorite phrases in English is free all prisoners free all prisoners. That's
beautiful. That's that's the idea that toy maker made in my own heart when he was with me.
That's that's something that I frequently do with people. Because I just assume that it
mainly because I can easily tap into my own emotional troubles from the past and even now
and just like see someone else with that same problem. And immediately I'm like,
I can help like I have this key that if you are open to it, it unlocks whatever. And like I would
say like 70% of the time, I don't actually want to put a percentage on it. So many times people
are like, Yeah, okay. And then they just, you know, go on in their lives. And sometimes I think,
Oh, you know, okay, they didn't see it. But really, I'm planting a seed a lot of the time.
And they'll come back to me as if like, they've had their own idea. You know, like this, they came
up with it themselves in and in some ways they have again, like I'm not I'm not trying to take
credit. Yeah, I don't give a shit. But but it's funny how that works. It's like it's like I dropped
this little pebble and it's grown into a big boulder now. How beautiful. By the way, when you
come to them and if you say something that resembles, right, I can see you're in this
particular kind of cage, I think I have a key that opens this kind of page here, pay attention
for a moment, I'll try to give you the key. Most people, some people will sign up, some people
won't. Most people will fail. And part of why they'll fail. Part of why it will look like you
failed in the beginning. It's not necessarily because you're planting a seed, although that
might also be true, it's something weirder. It's that they haven't authorized you.
Ah, right, like there for that thing, they are the sole authority. And when you come and go like,
you know, I think I might have a key, they're like, bullshit. Part of them is like, no, you
fucking don't. Who are you? Now, if you get them to buy in first. So like in hypnosis,
if you want to draw someone into trance, there's a very, very in sort of simple,
almost instantaneous induction you can use, particularly if they're in pain, but even if
they're not. And this presumes that two people are facing each other while standing. And they're
both aware that the hypnotic trance will not knock them out, or put them to sleep, they won't
remain conscious. And you can just say, would you like to feel amazingly better right now?
And if they say yes, that's the buy in. And then you just go like, I'm going to touch you very
gently between the eyes. And when I do that, your consciousness is just going to completely
relax all the way down to the toes, just like this. And you know, I don't know, 47% of people
are going to go into trance immediately. And it's not because you have magic power.
It's because humans are fucking weird. Because they authorized you and their expectation.
Exactly. Wow. They authorized you. So
when you are working with humans, it's important to pay attention to matters of consent and
authorization. That's really good advice. And when they authorize you, the power of your key
is likely to be radically increased. And it's true, partly what you say, that you can hand
them a seed and it'll grow. It'll grow because the understructure of their minds will recognize the
value. But you have to understand, humans are so weird, that they actually are trying to trap
themselves. They're not trying to get free of traps. They're trying to ensure that nobody breaks
the jail. Right? So you kind of, in many cases, you have to not trick them, but you have to kind
of enchant them for a moment, so that the moment of jailbreaking isn't fully conscious. Does that
make sense? It does make sense. I don't know how I'm necessarily able to apply that, but I get
you can always enchant humans with a narrative. Humans are narrative logically enchantable.
So you tell them a little story, right? You go, in the beginning of the story, you go like,
Nathan, I'm going to tell you a story and it's not about you. There was once this guy, blah, blah,
blah, blah, right? And they're already enchanted. Right? In fact, you can give humans negative
suggestions that become in their psyche positive transformations.
Interesting. Like you tell them like, okay, I'll give you, actually, I'll give you an example
for my own life. When I was a teenager, through a unexpected series of events, I broke my left
wrist. And this was catastrophic for me. I was a young guitar player. I had just gotten an electric
guitar. And I saved up my money for a long time to get it. Fuck, and I was in love with this guitar
and love with playing it. And I went to the doctor. And I was like, you know, I'm really worried,
is this going to affect my guitar playing? He's like, Oh, that's all over with. Like, what do you
mean? So you're not going to be playing guitar ever again. Like, just forget about it. I fucking
went home and started playing guitar with my cast on that day. You know. So what was he doing? Like,
he must have read the kind of rebellious, don't tell me what son blah, blah, right? Yeah, that I had.
Um, and, you know, use his medical awareness to give me a negative suggestion.
Wow. I've heard that so many times, like, you're never going to walk again. And the people like,
fuck you on that. And then they, you know, running a marathon. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. It's like, I always,
I always, the narrative was always, Oh, yeah, evil doctor and this person by the their own, the
own skin of their teeth was like, no. And, you know, but I realized as well, it's all this is well
known by doctors, therapists and hypnotists. Wow. They know about negative suggestions. There are
people who are evil. There literally are people who are evil. Not all the people are good. But
uh, there's also a weird problem where, you know, I was talking to a friend of mine last night,
who I trust and who's brilliant. She's a wilderness guy. And she took a, uh, like an emergency
responder course, because if you have people out in the wilderness, right, you have to deal
with medical emergencies. You follow me? I follow. And, um, like three days after she finished the
course, she fell off her bike and had a very serious head injury. And she went back to the people
and she was like, you know, I got really badly hurt. Does this happen? Is this common? She's like,
yes. They're like, yes, about 30, you know, 30 something percent of the people in our course
within a week of finishing the course, they seriously injure themselves when they're away
from other people. Think about that for a moment. The fuck is going on there? What is that about?
Right? I mean, I could make some suggestions, but preserve the question and chase it.
Most of the good questions, you don't want answers. You want to fall in love with that
question and just chase that fucking thing and adore it as it transforms in your awareness and
ability while you develop, right? You want to get married. Questions like, what is light? You
don't want an answer to that. You want to chase that fucking thing. What is time? Get married to
that question. What are minds, right? You want to have a harem of fucking astonishing questions.
You see what I'm getting at? You want to be madly in love with those chicks and have sex with them
late in the night all the time. That is what I do. That's why I'm talking to you. I believe you.
Yeah, me too. And it's interesting because the more I continue to focus on that question of why is
the things that we focus on, why do they appear in life? Why is it that if I'm really worried that
something's going to happen, I'm playing this mind game. This likelihood increases.
Yeah, I'm playing this mind game with myself of, well, don't worry about it because I know
experientially this happens to me. This is my entire life now. My focus is very important because
where I put my energy, things happen. It could be a mind game because it's like,
how do you stop thinking about something? You don't do that. We can address that.
Well, it's not a problem that I always run into, but if there are things in my life where I feel
like something is likely to happen regardless, if I am focusing on it or not, that's a little bit of
place I get stuck. Me too. Okay, so what happened to me? I told you about an event that took place
around 2000, right? Earlier in the conversation. And I'm not going to specify the event because
we're recording. So when that event took place, I made a very bad mistake, which was I turned my...
I shouldn't say this. Okay, I'm going to approach this differently.
I don't believe the secret. Manifesting is bullshit. And there's something weirder
that is true. There are an array of intelligences in the human that can in fact shape the future
under certain circumstances. Part of the problem is that
it gets very confusing if you attempt to consciously employ them.
They normally naturally do their thing the same way you don't have to figure out how to make your heart beat, right?
Yeah. These intelligences just sort of coalesce and invent futures for you. Under certain circumstances,
humans will turn that process against themselves, right? They will invert the naturally beautiful and altruistic,
but also ironic and complex intelligences. Say again? Sometimes hilarious. Yes.
So humans are weird in their relationship with these intelligences.
Now, if you want to... Okay, let's say there is a negative admonition. And by the way,
admonitions, which are prohibitions, like thou shalt not kill, is an admonition.
These have a fundamental relationship with the nature of human identity and consciousness.
For some weird reason, admonitions are fundamentally trippy and non-ordinary in human psychology,
consciousness, behavior, all these things. So there is a problem where if you tell someone,
for example, don't think about a white rhinoceros, you have the problem of having
introduced the white rhinoceros to consciousness. In a way, okay, remember earlier when I said
we are doing what we are saying? Okay, this is the opposite of that. If I say to you,
I will not be speaking to you tonight about the topics of succession and leverage.
I'm doing the opposite of what I'm saying. You see the difference? I do. And there's something
very trippy about both kinds of linguistic activity. But what I want to say that's very
simple is if you want to avoid a behavior, don't not do it. Establish a different behavior that
you channel switch. If I want to not smoke cigarettes, then I go jogging in the morning.
If I start to feel that grippy tension of God, I need to smoke, then I chew little pills made
of algae or something. Not necessarily chewing gum, but something oral. I get something I can
kind of orally fascinate myself with. In one case, I quit smoking just by having a girlfriend
because instead of smoking, I could kiss her, which is very orally satisfying and actually
nurturing and is probably a lot of what I was replacing in the first place.
So yeah, if you want to not do something, just do something else when the urge to
do the thing arises and you'll build other habit ladders. Does that make sense?
100%. Yeah, that's good advice. There are other ways around the prohibition
problem, but often they have to do with giving someone something better to do.
I remember that, yeah. So there's so much we can cover here, but let's go back to UFOs
and also altruism. Cool. Because you had some questions about altruism. Yes.
Let's chase them some more. What you said about altruism naturally
happening kind of changes. Honestly, it answers a lot of them, but I've been running into a lot of
fear recently. Just kind of exploring the unknown can leave one feeling like they're
like how I imagine people who are scared of the ocean. They're just floating around in the
sebis. They don't know what they don't know. So what happens if what you see as rescuing is
actually setting yourself up for a dangerous situation? I mean, discernment is an easy answer,
but I guess that's something I was going to give. Yeah, I don't know. I'm very curious
what you have to say then. All right, so let me just recap some of what you were sharing.
Yeah. One is that certain kinds of altruism can present danger. And the other is
you used the example of the vastness of the ocean, but what you're trying to say is something like
where is the anchor? Where is the ground? Where is the tether? And it's really important that you have
a trustworthy set of tethers or anchors if you're going to go exploring the non-ordinary.
And even if you're going to explore altruism, many times in my life, my attempt to help a situation
produced a worse situation and not slightly worse, like beings died or my heart was crushed
like a fucking tinfoil hat. And I thought, why is this happening? I'm trying to do
something beautiful here. It's because I'm a little bit naive about what beauty is.
So what you eventually learn, I think, is to pay wise and careful attention
to the characteristics of the situation as you are entering it.
You want to be aware and awake and not enchanted by your
by the reflection of the possibility of your own altruism in consciousness.
Right? Because it's a little bit like a fairy tale. And there's certain kinds of fairy tales
that don't work good, like they summon their opposite. This is well known in Greek myth
that hubris or passion can easily summon what they refer to as nemesis.
And nemesis is effectively the sort of daimon that delivers irony,
ironic outcome. So you want to be sensitive to a couple of principles. The first one is
have two or three tethers to anchor yourself in a base reality that you trust. What base
reality can you trust your humaneness? The finitude of your humaneness, your physical body,
your soma, the finitude, and the transcendence of your humaneness, but only in combination
with the finitude, not by itself. Because transcendence of your humaneness will get
you there, right? Unfortunately, that doesn't usually work out well.
Yeah, so anchor yourself in the body, the soma, the history of the body, the nonverbal
intelligences that are ancient compared to the verbal ones. Anker yourself in relationships
that are trusted and deep with the natural world, your humaneness, the finitude of that
humaneness, the brief true physicality of it, and the transcendence, but not just the transcendence.
The transcendence by itself will get you in trouble, usually.
Yeah. I think that's a lot of where the fear is coming from. I'm just trying to get out. I'm
just trying to go and jump off the deep end. But that's only because that's the only way
that I think I know how is like once I just completely surrender, weird shit starts to
happen quickly. And then it's like, oh, fuck, I don't know how to get back.
By the way, you said something very interesting.
You said something that's actually physically impossible.
What's that?
To jump off the deep end.
The deep end is the deep water in a pool. How can you jump off the deep water?
It's a really good question.
You can jump into the deep end, but you can't jump off the deep end.
This is the word to jump to.
I wonder if what I said kind of applies to the nature of what I'm doing.
It may. I mean, often little linguistic confusions are a sign of insight rather than error.
Yeah.
This is why we have the concept of a Freudian slip, but there's lots of other kinds of slips that are
easily as fascinating.
Okay. So the first thing is
be sensitive to the history of the situation that you enter if you intend to be helpful.
Take some time to familiarize yourself with the history of it
and the peculiarities and the vulnerabilities of both you and the other beings that you're in it with.
I used to feed
these J's peanuts and it was a lot of fun because the mail would come right to my hand.
So I would hang out with them for a couple of hours just feeding them peanuts.
Well, giving them peanuts was like giving human stacks of cash.
It captures their nervous system.
They can't not go after the peanuts and they live where hawks are.
So what I'm doing is I'm fucking up their ability to sense danger
by giving them something that captures their nervous system.
That is not going to turn out well.
It took me a while to figure this out, right?
I think I'm being altruistic, but I'm not.
I'm being selfish, right?
Even though I don't have selfishness at heart, right?
It's because I'm not paying attention.
So learn to pay close attention.
Practice paying close attention.
You don't have to get it right every time you're allowed to make mistakes.
But practice paying close attention.
Amplify your awareness, not just your creativity and altruism.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, 100%.
And then have some tethers that you trust so that if you find yourself in the
inversion of outer space or whatever, you can grab that anchor line
and draw yourself back down into your body, your soma, nonverbal intelligence,
the old stuff, the recenter.
These two things will be helpful, I think.
Very helpful.
100%.
UFOs.
Yeah, I was going to say UFOs.
I mean, it's so weird because it's really, it's not an identified flying object.
And I know we've recently changed this to UAP, which means what?
Non-identified aerial phenomenon?
Or just, we could just call it an AP, an anomalous phenomenon.
But the humans keep thinking they're going to figure out what it is.
It's very unlikely because it's almost like there are phenomena that are
not anomalous.
They're not anomalous because we haven't figured them out.
They're anomalous because we, we don't know what we are.
And if, if you don't know what you are, how do you, like, the whole
whatification thing is a problem, but the humans naturally do it anyway.
They kind of don't give a shit or they don't know that it's a problem or
something, I don't know.
Something that I've always tailored with, I talked about breathably, is like,
I agree that our conception as humans is just ass backwards.
Like we are, it does seem like we're going in the wrong direction because
just the logic that we use.
But if everyone stopped what they were doing to go explore consciousness, like,
I can only imagine that kind of upset, like what would happen.
I don't, I don't know.
I'm curious, like, I'm just so curious on what's going to happen.
Genuinely, like, I want,
You mean near term future for the humans?
Yeah, just like,
my perception and everyone I talk to, they're, they just say the same thing.
Like, yeah, like it's all going into the ground.
But how do we even know that that's what is happening?
I don't know.
Like, there's so much, I think a lot about the future and just what the future is,
like, conceptually.
And I think about perspectives, like, what one would see from the top of the mountain
versus from the valley below.
And what the situation would look like and just, you know, every human's perspective
and just on what is happening.
And it's just, I don't know.
There's some people that believe that global warming is good because it's like a,
you know, Mother Earth's fever.
And she's just going to like get through the illness and be on the other side,
which honestly, I like that metaphor quite a bit.
And then there's people who are like, yeah, like, we're going to be punished for all
eternity for the sins that we've committed on the earth.
And so it's just like, what, I'm curious what your thoughts are after me saying all this.
Well, look,
there's so many different cohorts of humans.
And very few of the, all right, there's an inverse relationship.
It seems to me that there's an inverse relationship between the beliefs of the
broader population and actual insight.
So that it's very uncommon that you get deep understanding from broad popular ideation.
Unfortunately, broad popular ideation is mostly thrifty.
And you have incredibly insightful small groups and individuals.
But then also in that area, you have the problem of cults of belief.
If you ask me, like, what do I think?
First of all, I'm not sure.
So I'm going to say, I'm going to honestly say first that I don't know.
And if you say, well, what are your intuitions and concerns, then I can speak more openly.
But which I'm presuming you're asking me, that's why I'm just going to say these things.
I think there are world-ending forces at play in the humans and above them,
meaning like in where our consciousness originates, there are problems that are being
what, instanced in and as human behavior, particularly at the group level.
At the group level, our species is not intelligent.
There's no evidence of intelligence at the group level in our species.
What do you mean by group level?
Like two people or like?
No, I mean large groups.
Yeah, right, large groups.
At the two person or even in small groups, humans can become extremely effectively intelligent
under the right kinds of circumstances.
No, I mean the large groups of humans.
They're very dangerous.
They are dissociated.
They are omnicidal, corporations, governments, religions, all these things.
The academy, pharmaceutical industry, all these things, these are very fucking dangerous.
They are the opposite of humanity appearing in the group body of humanity, in my view.
Which makes them even more dangerous.
It does because I heard Verveki say something like, the AIs are primarily under the control
of market forces that don't have our best interests at heart.
And I was like, Verveki, they don't have hearts.
What do you mean they don't have our best interests at heart?
They don't have hearts at all.
They're literally heartless.
So there's all these problems where you have lethal, malignant, contagious processes
acting as if they are provisional purposes, excuse me, persons, or even superpersons.
Now, if we're going to make superpersons, those things should be fundamentally altruistic.
Right? There have to be boundaries across which we will not travel for money or any
form of power or commodity.
Like we have to be resolute as humans.
I think we're in for 19 kinds of shitstorm.
You know, there's various scenarios we could trace out.
It's kind of a situation where that Monty Python skit about the Spanish Inquisition
comes to mind.
I don't know if you know it.
I do.
Right? So they got like, no one expects the Spanish Inquisition busts into some ridiculous
scene like a guy's trying to buy cheese in the store.
You know, suddenly boom, the Spanish Inquisition is there.
And, you know, no one expects the Spanish Inquisition, our weapons are fear, surprise,
and an almost fanatically fanatical devotion to the Pope.
No, then they just keep going and producing a new list of weapons over and over again.
And this is likely to be what's going to happen.
It's not just that.
So first of all, are the likelihood that we will be able to predict what is going to occur
should be understood as very small.
Our predicted capacities about shit we don't know suck.
They're not good.
And this is something we don't know.
And I think what's actually likely to happen is not just a cascade of what Nicholas
or Nassim Nicholas Taleb would call black swans, right?
Profoundly unexpected things.
COVID-19 wasn't wasn't a full on black swan.
But for the common human person, it was absolutely a black swan.
Nobody expected like, we'll lose three family members next year to a virus, right?
Or myself, you know, I'm going to die here on this mountain, like what happened to my dad.
So I think we're in for not merely a storm of black swans.
Right.
A bunch of cascade of unexpected events that will accelerate and kind of capitalize on each other.
I think we might be in for a fucking black swan factory.
I think human culture is about to start producing catastrophically unexpected anomalies.
Like one after another after another.
That's what I think is going to happen.
So in fact, what I'm saying is you go ahead and have some expectations about the future.
Feel free.
You're they're going to be defied.
Okay.
Those expectations are going to be crushed again and again and again.
Here's what I suspect.
Now there might be stuff that is expectable.
You know, there's the basic troubles of like, for example,
nuclear war, economic collapse, global warming, famine.
The forehorsemen of the apocalypse effectively.
Right.
That stuff's not real.
I just can't tell.
You know, it's very clear if you read Revelation that humans have undergone apocalypses before.
And one of the weird things that happens is that hybrids start showing up everywhere.
And this is something that the humans don't talk about this.
Yeah, hybrids.
Right.
Like all the monsters are hybrids.
And the humans are making hybrids of themselves.
Right.
You know, I'm like, you know, I'm not massive.
I'm not a male or a female.
I'm a velocity flumble.
Right.
You know, I'm a whatever I want to be.
So the humans are actually hybridizing their own bodies.
That's not a good sign to me.
And people will say like, Darren, why are you picking on?
No, look, think seriously about the nature of categorical intelligence.
And what happens to it when fundamental bases of
that underlie our category system are compromised or suddenly called into
confusing transformation so that you can't tell what or who anything or one is.
It is maybe a problem that I pick on that on the specific gender thing being given
how charged it is at the moment in human culture, particularly in the United States
or the Western nations.
But I'm picking on it for a reason.
I'm not just saying I'm not trying to say something simplistic about it.
I'm trying to say it's a symptom of deeper, really dangerous stuff where, you know,
the fundamental basis of identity itself becomes there's no more.
You've got no more tether, right?
You have no anchor anymore.
Right.
Yeah, like that human tether that you're talking about that.
Yes, the body.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm actually trying to say something that's not fully forged.
So forgive me if it's a little clumsy at the moment.
No, but I see what you're pointing at when you bring this this topic up.
Or I see the many ways that it does point.
It's like it's like a potent node of ideas that brings a lot of things in the question.
I think that's why you continue to bring it up.
Yeah, I was playing with the artistic capacities of some of the large language models.
Mm hmm.
That shit is psychedelic.
It's fucking dangerous as hell.
I mean, it's the idea of what a bird is, is like,
I'm a laboratory.
I am part of a dog's face.
I am a piece of the car's engine.
I am three philosophical traditions from over the past 23 years.
I am stop signs, silverware, and I am a bird.
Right.
That is some fucked up, crazy, mind-warping shit.
Yeah.
It's not, the humans are very susceptible to having their capacity for coherent consciousness
obliterated by nonsense.
And those things are producing highly structured nonsense.
Yeah.
That's a really good way to put it.
It really is drug-like.
I mean, I literally was sort of losing my mind.
Hey, I wonder, like, I'm a resident.
Sorry, go ahead.
Like, I don't know.
I think about those CAPTCHA things where you're just like,
click on what a stop sign is.
I mean, how many times is that done?
I mean, there's got to be some AIs out there that know what a fucking stop sign is,
but maybe that's a wrong assumption on my part.
Okay, but I've got a weirder problem.
If I ask Gemini, if I say, like, put the word, okay,
show me a bunch of different mustard bottles and put the word mustard at the top of the image.
It will not put the word.
It might get one version in which the word mustard is relatively coherently formed in
the top of the image.
And all future images will look like the word mustard underwent a variety of CAPTCHA distortions.
You follow me?
Yeah, I follow.
It literally thinks that human language is CAPTCHAs.
Right?
It's seen so many linguistic CAPTCHAs that it thinks English,
that it thinks that's what English looks like, so to speak.
Whoa.
And that's fucked up because now you can see, like, a place where the CAPTCHAs will
feed back directly into human cognition.
Whoa.
Right?
And that's going to be fucked.
Like, when I get images of language from BARD or many other LLMs, not all of them,
it's not language it's producing.
It's fucking meta-language.
And the meta-language is part CAPTCHA, part fucking, you know, I don't know, linear accelerator
on Mars, part, you know, like, part, I don't even know, right?
Like, part super human logo.
It's just fucking crazy.
And, you know, I imagine that it will get better over time or whatever.
And I know we're in kind of the beginning of this situation.
But this shit is crazy.
I was playing with, I got so fucking high playing with Gemini.
Having it generate what I was pretending was a product development cycle.
Right?
I got so fucking high, dude.
I couldn't breathe.
I was laughing so hard.
I was on the phone with my friend talking to them about what I was seeing as I asked
Gemini to produce images for me.
And it was fucking ridiculous.
I mean, after a few passes with Gemini, the meaning of certain words like the word tube,
if I asked Gemini to show me a tube,
it would show me a hog.
I was like losing my shit.
I was really losing my shit.
I was laughing so hard.
And it was literally like a self-accelerating psychedelic experience.
That's crazy.
And I had, I mean, I was, I knew this shit was dangerous and trippy,
but I was, and I was mostly negatively minded about it.
But I felt like I was having an adventure with a UFO.
Right?
Because what the fuck is an LLM?
Well, it isn't anything until you interact with it.
And then how you interact with it changes your, what your mind can become.
Right?
And it changes whatever it is too.
So like UFOs and LLMs are somehow the same fucking topic.
I wonder what AI programmers are doing nowadays.
Like I wonder if some of them are just losing their minds.
I mean, there's, there's a bunch of branches on that tree.
Some of them are just going for the cash and there's like mountains of cash.
Some of them are going for the power and there's mountains of power.
And some of them are going for outer space and there's that.
Yep.
And some of them are just having like sequential pants shitting terror.
Yeah.
Because they can see that
not only does this not end well, this can't proceed well.
Like there's a fundamental principle which is
unless humans have intelligent societies, you don't keep giving them tech.
And the humans are doing the opposite of that.
They don't give a fuck about intelligent societies at all.
Or life on earth or anything.
They just keep building tech.
So yeah, the genie is unfortunately way out of the bottle and has like 19 billion tentacles.
And octopus tentacles all have minds of their own.
Exactly.
I mean, actual tentacles would be coherent.
What these things are is incoherent.
Yeah.
I mean, actual octopus tentacles are fucking highly intelligent.
Yeah.
So I think it's pretty crazy UFOs.
That's hilarious.
I mean, the face of time space would have to be a superposition of identity to begin with.
So the idea that, first of all, the humans generally suppose that time space is empty.
That's hilarious.
I love that shit.
Which kind of an idiot educated you.
For one thing, it's filled with light.
For another thing, think about the earth.
Okay.
Imagine that you and I have the capacity to go to a superposition over time and identity.
And we just watch the earth from its formation to the present moment.
And that happens over a span that is for us about five seconds.
You follow me?
So what you're going to see is you're going to see the appearance of a stable liquid water environment.
And you're just going to see billions of forms of intelligence,
cluster fucking that little droplet of water into exuberant, organismal, super capacity.
There's like cells and then fucking animals and plants and all plants, animals, all this stuff.
But what you would never find is you put a glass of water on your table.
No, let me put this another way.
Okay, imagine that you're at home.
You find a glass of water on your kitchen table.
Okay.
You didn't put it there.
And so you observe it over the net the following 45 days.
You don't disturb it.
And what you discover is that in the bottom of the glass of water after 45 days,
the water is all evaporated.
You got little white crystals, right?
You taste those crystals and you do some little chemistry tests, right?
And you realize, oh, it's sodium chloride.
And so what you know about the water is that it was salty.
You follow me?
All right, think about the earth the same way.
You got this planet, living water on it.
Fucking organisms just blossom out of this living water.
Well, that must mean the time space is organized me, right?
Time space must be naturally productive of billions of kinds of organisms in their relationships.
What you won't get in the glass of water on your kitchen table is like a wrist watch
showing up in there when the water evaporates.
You won't get it machined.
So you can't get a living planet unless time space is icy and handsy and mindsy.
And if time space is mindsy, it must be meta to mindsy, right?
It must be meta to handsy, right?
Because it produces all kinds of appendages, right?
Hands being one of them, all kinds of mine.
So it must be the kind of thing that its nature produces beings and minds and bodies and things
as a side effect of what it's doing and being.
And whatever it's doing and being must be transcendental to all the forms
that we humans have words for.
And so if that thing reaches out a tentacle to touch you,
you better expect some anomalous fucking shit to go down.
Right.
Wow.
Yeah, that really puts things into perspective.
I just think of time space as like a giant multi-dimensional half praying mantis,
half house cat, half octopus, half fucking cactus.
It really is sort of like an LLM's bizarre construct in a way.
It's got like nine trillion different features of identity.
And they're coalescing sequentially and coherently, depending on how you're relating to it.
It's so funny when I was, when I first started, like, it must have been sixth grade.
When I just really was like, okay, what that, what the fuck is going on?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I wanted to pop the whole fucking bubble.
I wanted to say, all right, look, I get it.
I'm a human.
What is going on beyond me?
It's beyond the universe, beyond everything that's conceivably possible.
This must be kind of like simulation theory or whatever better word there is for it.
But just like a computer program that's just running and then what is the computer?
Yeah, what you wanted was ontological success.
Yeah.
You wanted the key to what-ness.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So that is what I've been fundamentally chasing ever since then.
Haven't stopped thinking about it.
Really the only thing that's kind of-
Every human child is doing that.
They just get distracted.
I was trying to do that too.
Every human child was doing that.
And perhaps guys a little bit more than women, generally speaking.
Why do you say that?
Because women are trippier.
And again, these are generalizations.
They are not universally true.
But if I had to pick an animal for the man-
Well, I know.
That was his.
That was my-
What animal would I pick?
Probably the serpent.
And if I had to pick an animal for a woman, it would be like the octopus.
Interesting.
Right.
They both have the same principle.
The woman is-
Okay, women actually understand the principle that we were talking about.
That things don't have explicit identity.
Men get pissed if they don't have explicit identity.
Men are like, you don't have explicit identity?
Okay, I'll force you to pull a knife.
Okay.
Now what's your fucking identity?
You think you're an altruist?
Here's a gun.
You know what I mean?
Men are dumb this way, generally.
Women are weirder because they have children.
Like they literally make children inside their own body.
All the men you see were organs inside women.
Yep.
So the weird deterministic, the appearance anyway, of ontological determinism in the
masculine mind and psyche is a problem of dominance and control.
Whereas the women realize actual power isn't dominance or control, it's influence.
Ergo, notice like what goes on in social media.
We have this phenomenon called influencer as well.
What's the breakdown gender-wise?
It's mostly females because they can attract attention.
Yeah, but no, the women just, they're not wedded to explicits.
And in fact, most of their suffering has to do with men demanding explicit behaviors, functions,
roles, all of this pain, I think.
From this one perspective, it's useful.
I'm not saying this is the only thing going on.
I'm saying this is a useful puristic.
And again, I'm not a one thing mind guy.
I don't trust that shit at all.
One thing mind stuff is garbage most of the time.
And men like it, you know, men practice it.
Well, that's just a jerk, you know.
Let me go ahead.
I was going to say it's just easy.
It is.
Yeah, I mean, you know, but if you have a knife, everything becomes something to cut.
I mean, it's not a very good, what's, what's the outcome of that going to be like for you?
I get the whole fascination with penetration.
And by the way, part of what you were saying, I read it as I want to penetrate
and disambiguate all the mysteries.
I want to know what's going on, right?
Well, that becomes a very ironic, that becomes a very ironic mission rather quickly.
Because what you will find out is most of the time is
to the degree you get the answers you're looking for,
you will, you'll have to sacrifice wings to get each one, right?
As if you were, yeah, yeah.
As if you were a multi-winged bird capable of flying in,
say a few thousand dimensions at the same time.
And you just keep tearing off wings and getting answers to what's going on.
Every time you rip a wing off, new answer.
Oh, it's this.
Of course, I should have seen that long ago, right?
Oh, it's just that.
Like every time you get an answer, you're losing liberty.
Unless it's the kind of an answer that sort of leads toward enlightenment.
Those kinds of answers are different and don't tend to.
I mean, you can, they can sacrifice liberty, but they don't tend to.
Like real insight doesn't tend to fuck you over unless you take it too seriously
or try to weaponize or make a tool out of it.
And even then, it doesn't always fuck you up, but it's more likely to.
This just depends on what's the origin of your motivations.
Well, it always turned into toolmaking.
It was always like, Oh, I understand this aspect of reality now.
I can use it to my advantage.
And then I would get completely lost in the weeds, like,
but just like, what?
Okay.
Now I no longer know what's going on.
My quest continues.
Yeah.
I mean, the urge for utilitarianism, particularly in males, again, it seems to me.
I remember listening to Sadguru talking to a, like a neuroscientist or something.
And the neuroscientist kept talking about operationalizing discoveries and why science
is so profound.
And Sadguru eventually got kind of pissed at him and said, like,
did it ever occur to you that a donkey is not there for you to use it?
Does it ever occur to you that the donkey is just the donkey?
Like, is this a living being?
It's not there to be operationalized by you.
Why do you want to operationalize everything?
Where will this lead you?
You know, this will not go well.
Yeah, he was upset.
He's right.
It will not go well.
It's very, very right.
Like, this is the whole problem with the, it's not really the human fascination with
Techni.
It's mostly, I hate to say, it seems to me anyway, it's a fucking masculine fascination
with Techni.
I want a bigger outside penis to fuck shit up with.
I don't see the women going around doing the same kind of thing, really.
Not that there aren't brilliant women, scientists and technologists.
Of course, there are many, many of them, especially now.
But it does seem to have originated, I don't know, maybe it's a myth.
It seems to have originated in the males to me.
And it does seem to have to do with the fact that our flower is external.
Yeah, I mean, isn't it like just the geometry of our bodies?
You look down and you go, okay, that's what this is for.
Yep.
Yeah, this separates two things.
Yeah, this separates two things.
Wow, that's fucking fascinating.
Yeah, I mean, it's, you know, it parts the veil and then life comes out later, right?
I mean, that's my favorite game to play.
It's very compelling game.
It's hard to argue with it.
Yeah.
But I think what I found is that I'm looking for a different game to play.
I've been doing that a long time.
Well, when, if the spirit of intelligence penetrates you like a schoolgirl, you know,
you're first of all, you're going to realize like that that whole penetration thing wasn't
quite as interesting as you thought.
Yeah.
And secondly, you'll be like, huh, maybe there's something to this receptivity side.
Yes, yeah.
Yeah, because that's kind of what happened to me.
I mean, I, I didn't, I wasn't necessarily thinking that I was going to penetrate the mysteries,
but when they showed up and began a conversation, I wasn't, I wasn't pitching.
You know, I know, yeah.
And I think that's, that's kind of where, where I need to start looking because
I've just always had that science mind of like, in order to figure something out,
you have to tear it to pieces and dissect it and look at every little aspect of it.
Yeah, good luck.
Like the really good shit, not only will that fail,
it'll get you in bad trouble.
If you like, to whatever degree you succeed, you'll regret it.
Because again, the tributaries that you'll contact are your own origin.
You don't want to kill and dissect them.
You don't want to know what they are.
You want to be with and for them, right?
You want to be on the same team.
So you, you want to join together in an amnesis, right?
Unforgetting and rescue like, like heroic missions.
You want to join together for those purposes and that's very fucking fulfilling.
You know, the dead, the dissected frog is a tragic thing to see.
Yes, you'll understand about the structure of the frog.
What will that, how will that help?
Yeah, the frogs gone now.
And then you don't know if another frog has the same insides.
So you also don't know if, you know, like Tom Campbell,
Bob and Rose friend, he would be like, there's no, there's no inside of a frog.
And no such thing as that.
That only happens if you open up a frog, which is really a trippy way of thinking.
I don't believe it.
I don't believe it either, but I've, I've, I've toyed around with that before.
I probably picked it up from him.
It's a trippy way of thinking and it's a useful heuristic.
I just think as a, as a fundamental ontology, it's probably broken.
Yeah.
And look, have an ontology that's loving.
And relationally intelligent and sensitive.
And that, that's something you mostly be able to trust.
I mean, very, it's very uncommon that it will lead you astray to adore the beings.
Right.
Just love the beings and have mercy and don't judge them and listen and follow and play with them.
Things will go well.
Generally speaking.
And if you're going to play with monumental forces, if you're going to play with mountains
or planets or something, then you learn to be very unimportant to yourself.
Because those are big, those things are huge, man.
What are you going to do?
You're going to act all rigid in the face of them.
Good luck.
Yeah.
It's not going to last long.
What do you, yeah, I think we're still trying to, we're all trying to figure it out.
Go ahead.
I'm listening.
I mean, like what about in the face of just resource deficit, you know, like
there, there is like that survival instinct that, that's somatic, like deeper intelligence
where it's like, all right, man, it's you or them.
And maybe, maybe that's, maybe I'm wrong on that.
But, you know, if it was my little brother, I'd give him the meal before I even ate,
you know, because I love him to death.
So there's, there's contacts, but like if it's like me or a bird, I'm gonna, I'm gonna eat the bird.
So, and I, I don't know.
Okay, okay, okay, but, but slow down for a second.
Let's say it's you or the bird.
Okay.
And you're going to eat the bird.
Then there's this question of how do I eat the bird?
Am I just like, fuck you, you fucking bird crush, chomp, chomp, chomp?
Or am I like, okay, I remember your parents.
I remember the bird people.
I remember all of the people who gave their lives so that the bees could live.
I will not just remember you bird.
I'm about to eat.
I will try to rescue some birds with the nourishment you give me.
I will remember you.
Like join with me, live, live in and ask me, right?
No, the bird doesn't want to die.
It doesn't want to become a part of you, but if it's going to die either way,
it's much more beautiful if it part, if there's a participation there.
And all of them, yeah, go ahead.
No, you finish.
I can ask him.
I was done now.
Oh, I'm very curious about aesthetics and beauty and like how that plays in the role
because I know it's significant.
I know that there's reasons that we find things to be beautiful.
More so than just arbitrary like, I like purple because, you know, when I was a kid,
a clown gave me a purple balloon and it was happy memory.
It's like there's, there's some deeper aspects to aesthetics that I'm curious
if you, what you're saying, something fundamentally basic.
Yeah.
Without an aesthetic sense, you cannot become intelligent.
Aesthetics come before rationality, they come before math.
They're older and they're not always truer, but they're older and more trustworthy
than concepts by far.
Right.
Aesthetics can be understood as like the collective generational intelligence or even
a way that the cells in your body express intelligence through a dance of affinity and
disaffinity.
There is, there are psychological elements to aesthetics too, but in one sense,
it's the oldest form of intelligence.
It's one of the oldest forms of intelligence that humans have access to.
So yeah, that shit is serious.
When you determine whether or not you want to kiss a girl,
for example, presuming you're a cisgendered male in this case, in the case that I'm making here,
that determination is primarily aesthetic, even though it may have lots of different features.
It seems to me.
So you can see how old that is.
That shit's real.
It's not only trustworthy.
In other words, aesthetics can mislead our intelligence because, for example,
I have been scripted by my culture to respond to a specific array of physical types.
Does that make sense?
So I'm not saying that shit's trustworthy,
but there's an intelligence that pervades above that scripting that will subset the scripting
into preferable relational opportunities.
That's a real intelligence.
It comes before evaluation.
Like you could say it's evaluative, but it's not rationally evaluative at all.
So, I mean, to me, it's always appeared to be kind of like how words are just these.
I'm not saying that that's what I think aesthetics is, but this is my relationship to it as someone
who never looked into it.
Kind of like how words are just these dead
shortcuts of information.
It's like, when I say bird, you just know what I'm talking about,
even though it isn't the thing itself.
And so aesthetics just seems like an instant assumption.
It's like, I know what this is based on the way that it looks, feels, tastes.
Oh, I see.
Okay, you're saying aesthetics is a sort of...
It's a pre-representational...
It's like the origin of representation itself, in a way.
It is representational.
It's shorthand.
That's trippy.
That's been my understanding of it.
I don't disagree, even though what I said is radically different from that.
Yeah, I'm trying to understand the truth.
I think there's some useful heuristics in what you propose there that I like and I trust,
even though it's different from what I was saying.
Yeah, it is a kind of shorthand.
And in that sense, it can be deceptive.
But it isn't only that.
Maybe there's an ulterior discernment.
It's interesting.
I don't know quite what to say now.
I've become confused,
because I think both things are true.
And I'm not sure how they are complementary or conflicting.
Can you explain to me what you were saying before about it,
like what you were saying it was?
Yeah, so like...
There is such a difference between food I want to eat and food I don't want to eat.
Yeah.
They might not as well even be the same thing.
And it's similar with girls.
Like, I'll look at a girl and be like,
I will kiss you right now.
And then I'll look at some other girl and be like,
there's no chance of us kissing.
And it seems to be based on very superficial, seeming,
aesthetic perceptions.
And most of our...
The other thing...
Say again.
It does kind of sound like we're saying the same thing, then.
We are.
That's the really weird thing.
Because I think both things are true and they seem to be conflicting.
Aesthetics is the sense and intelligence that is used if we make art.
So it can't just be shortcuts.
Right?
Yeah.
So, I mean, maybe what I'm...
Maybe what I'm describing is a way that aesthetics can be used in a very superficial way,
but there is other depth to it.
Maybe it's a different intelligence that you use in relation to aesthetics.
Like, there's a kind of aesthetics that does seek shortcuts.
Maybe there's an array of shortcutting intelligences.
And let's be really clear.
The desire for convenience is one of the great evils in our time.
Mm-hmm.
Right?
The desire for like,
ah, let's just skip that shit that actually is important.
Because it's a little more work than the crappy low-hanging fruit I can get instead immediately.
Yeah.
But then in other times, it could just be energy saving.
Yes, when energy is at that degree of a premium, sure.
Yeah.
I think we're seeing like a bright side, dark side version,
even though neither one has to be necessarily dark.
There's both things are true.
My aesthetics mislead the fuck out of me all the time.
But they also...
I suppose they might be related to
features of either self-recognizing,
like, oh, I recognize myself in that chick somehow,
or self-projecting.
Right?
I'm attracted to her because if I were a chick,
I wish I'd look like that, that specific.
Interesting.
So there could be both.
I mean, and there's...
I think part of the reason we're having a problem here is that we've probably failed to
clearly define aesthetics so that it's mixed up with...
I mean, it seems to me when I think of aesthetics,
I think of the politics of affinity and disaffinity.
Like sort of like the difference between desire and disgust.
Mm-hmm.
And both of which seem aesthetic.
Wow, trueism.
Is...
I don't know how I want to ask this question.
There are utilitarian uses for aesthetics.
Is this food...
Does it look like it's going to be good or not?
But then there's also like, is this art pleasing to the eye?
And I feel like aesthetics...
One person's sense of aesthetics can be wildly different from another's,
not only based on their needs, but just based on their subjective experience.
And so, I'm having trouble even just parsing out what we're talking about here, because...
To me, it just looks like a layer in which a being would perceive things to decide whether
or not it's beneficial or just, I don't know, yeah, beneficial to them.
Mm-hmm.
But there are certain fundamental...
Determ...
Not determinants, but variables.
Like for organisms, as far as we know, liquid water, that's a fucking...
You got to have it.
Beautiful.
And heat gradients, right?
Mm-hmm.
The dogs and cats, they all go to sleep with the humans.
Why? Because shared body heat is better than making it all by yourself.
Yep.
And for the creatures that can't make body heat, like bees or lizards and snakes,
they have to receive it from somewhere else.
So heat gradients, absolutely associated with survival, not just of you, but of your children.
So there are certain fund... like oxygen around here, you know, pretty fucking important.
Too much of it will kill certain things, but mostly it's life-positive.
So it seems like there are certain kind of fundamental things in the physical layer, at least,
that they are good, right?
The sun is good, the moonlight is good.
Green?
Green is fucking amazing around here.
Just like green?
That just means fucking alive.
Yep.
But beyond that, it's just so weird to be a human because we have these sophisticated,
multi-layered, partly cognitive, partly experiential, partly somatic, partly linguistic,
experiencing consciousnesses.
And they can shift very dramatically.
I mean, there are zero... if I'm just thinking about oysters,
I love them as organisms.
Those things are great organisms.
Thank you for being organisms.
I don't want that shit in my mouth.
That's like rotten boogers.
But they're delicious.
Fuck that.
Those things are disgusting.
But literally, it's like a big glob of mucus.
And it's not like there's no example where I like mucus, but that's just gross.
But I remember I was at a wedding and they had a bunch of raw oysters.
At the after party in a field in this park where I'm sitting right now.
And this totally gorgeous hippie chick walked up to me with a raw oyster in her palm.
And just looked at me.
You better believe I ate that thing out of her palm.
No fucking question, right?
Disgusting as hell, except when it's in the palm of a cute hippie chick.
Right?
Now it's like a totally different thing.
So where is the identity?
You see the problem?
This is the thing in our whole conversation.
The language predisposes us to think the identity is in the thing.
It's not in the thing.
It's in the relationship between the participants.
If it's only in the thing, it's dead.
There's no relationship.
It's just nominal, right?
The name.
That is a treat.
That is a spoon.
And with objects, it's more compellingly explicit.
Right?
Like a tree is much more highly variable as to what it could be than a spoon is.
I mean, that has to do more with the fact that we just make spoons for a function.
And trees, it would be insulting to say that they were made for a function.
Yeah, I agree.
It's funny.
I remember I was talking with somebody who ID's is autistic yesterday.
And I was asking her, she's sort of a neurodivergence coach, right?
Does she helps people explore and contact their what?
Their their intelligence, imagination, their body and so forth.
And I asked her a question because it had come up in another context.
I asked her, you know, what does the autistic community think about the relationship between
vaccines and autism, which is like sort of a political topic, right?
And she said, first of all, there's no such thing as the autistic community,
which I thought was a tricky thing to say.
And then she said, I think many of us would be really insulted by that supposition.
And I thought that was very trippy.
It had not occurred to me, neither of those things had occurred to me.
And so I had kind of naive expectations of what how she might respond,
which she completely defied in her response.
Now, I don't know.
And, you know, I know very little about both of these topics.
Well, that's not entirely true.
I know what it's like to be unusually minded, because I'm unusually minded.
And most of my friends are unusually minded, and lots of them would probably,
you know, qualify or whatever, be be diagnostically differentiated as autistic.
The very one thing, mind the mental health, like conversations that go on.
It's like, oh, how can we just choose a label that fits your symptoms and then exactly pathology?
Yes. Yeah, that that's it's both fucked up and useful.
Right. You wouldn't want to get rid of it all together.
On the other hand, its dominance is troubling and often stupid.
Yeah, it's weird.
There's this kind of double bind around labels and identity.
On the one hand, it's stupidifying.
On the other hand, it can save your life.
Right. It's like you both, it's sort of like you need it, but it has to be held loosely,
very loosely, until it has to be held explicitly.
Yes. It's literally like you're reading my mind, because that was the exact thought I had.
It's like, our first conversation, you were explaining like just holding things loosely,
and that pertains to just anything that we were talking about.
And I've used that in my day-to-day life ever since, and it has been profoundly helpful.
And then I'm like, oh my God, I'm using the hold it loosely thing. I'm holding it too tightly.
Holding the hold it loosely thing too tightly.
And so then the solution was just like, no, there are times where you need to hold things
tightly. And so I don't know.
Yeah. If you use a scalpel sometime, you're going to see that a loose hold doesn't help much.
Not much. Yeah.
Tweezers, right? You got to use those fucking things when you got to use them.
It's funny because that phrase comes from the friend that I was mentioning.
She's the one who she will say, she's the one who kept using this phrase.
And I was like, I really like this phrase, hold it loosely.
Because if you're going to go, oh, that's the other thing.
You were talking about sort of safety measures if you're going to go to outer space, so to speak,
right? And one of the safety measures is hold it loosely. As long as you don't take things too
seriously, you're unlikely to hurt yourself or others. But if you start taking them really
seriously, then you think, oh, no, wait, I'm a messiah or, you know, I'm the antichrist or both.
Yep.
Then things are going to get fucked and become very ironic, most likely.
I'm glad that I only spent seven days believing I was going to be the newest Jesus.
That's not bad. I think I spent about 80 or 90.
But it's the natural, you know, it's a natural inclination in a Christian culture under the
sudden influx of non-ordinary insight or psychosis. And those two things resemble each other a lot.
They're not the same thing, but they're very similar.
Yeah, I'm pretty scared of psychosis. I really...
With good reason. Me too.
I brushed up against it a few times.
So have I.
Yeah, I'm not really interested in exploring that.
Good. But I just want to say, I want to tell you little stories. So like,
there was a disciple of his Guru, they were invited, the Dauntists or something.
And, you know, the Guru, the disciple came to the Guru and said, you know, I want the vision of God
that I know you can show me. Okay.
And the Guru kept giving him very mundane things to do, you know, practices, meditation and so forth.
Right. And the disciple was very upset after many years.
Of studying with the Guru, you know, he was like, look, you can just...
I know that if you can just touch me and I will have the vision of God.
Why are you withholding it?
And the Guru said, all right, sit down.
So the disciple sat down and the Guru touched him in the forehead.
Boom, the vision of God arises in the disciple.
And the disciple was like, oh my God, this, we have to show everybody.
Right now, we have to go and show everyone.
They will all become, you know, enlighten all of the people.
And the Guru slaps him and the vision goes away.
He's like, what did you do?
He said, that's why I didn't give you the vision of God before.
You're like a five year old kid. You have no discipline.
What are you thinking?
You will ruin your life and your body if you try, if you act like this, sober up and meditate.
Now, this is, you know, a story and probably something that actually took place over and over
again because every person who's unprepared and suddenly the insight of the origin world,
I will call it, somehow penetrates them like a ray of life,
illuminating their consciousness.
The first thing they will think is, oh, shit, I was Jesus the whole time.
Or, you know, I am the Messiah.
It's natural and it's not true that you're not, right?
It's just not true that you are in that way, unless of course you are in that way.
I mean, there are occasional humans that are born to just be fucking messianic,
like, like meteors shooting through the sky of human history.
Some of us are born for that, but not very many.
And I mean, the weird thing, yeah, the whole Jesus thing is very confusing.
Well, it's just amazing how easily it can be distorted.
I mean, you know, there's just, with that comes so much power
and you can really just hijack it and bring it anywhere.
Say more.
I have just heard Jesus's name used in so many different contexts
that look like nothing like each other.
All for the sake of just like, look, here is this figure to adore,
follow me, this will bring you, you know.
And it could be anything from like Jesus was an alien to Jesus was and is God.
And Jesus is actually a deceiver of, you know, meant used by alien intelligences
to like have them conformed to, you know, religion and I don't know,
all these different things.
It's like, yeah, I've heard a lot of different things too.
One of the trippy ones is that the original God of the Bible is actually the devil
and Jesus came to violate and transform all of that.
Yeah, I've heard that too.
I mean, like, yeah, there's so many.
But in a sense, we could imagine that Jesus represents the
potential for both transcendence, community, like communion, the being and living together
with and for each other.
And then also the an amnesis, right, the active recollection of origin,
right, which is the true home, the home above all, all homes.
And Jesus maybe isn't just a symbol about this.
It's the possibility, it's a pointer to the possibility of living and acting it.
And not necessarily perfectly, but like as a direction in developmental space.
Does that make sense?
And these are things that these are ideas at least that I relatively trust
associated with Jesus.
Yeah, I mean, one, I can see the motifs and they cut through so many of the
different things I've heard.
So I can definitely see that.
But it's weird when people like John Verweyke is basically, he's sort of,
so he's a really brilliant mind that I like to listen to him.
I learn when I hear him talk.
But what I find trippy is that I know he's been an atheist and he's basically starting to save it like
my, my education and my research leave me no option but to become theocentric.
That's very trippy.
That is trippy.
Do you have any more to say?
I mean, God or no God, it's, in my view, it's both and more.
Because I have like a very trenchant argument to table toward atheists,
which is that they are the God of their body.
So they have a direct experience of a God that they're pretending doesn't exist as themselves.
In fact, they're using a God of themselves to determine that there's no God.
That's pretty fucking ironic.
Have you examined that closely?
You might want to have a peek at that.
You, you worship rationality and think there's no God that way.
Okay, good luck.
Secondly, there are orders of organizing, of the organization of intelligences in nature
that are blatantly obvious in physical systems.
So you're going to have a problem there.
And then lastly, this idea that organisms just created themselves out of nothing,
almost certainly mathematically impossible, just cannot be true.
There must have been intelligent influence and the existence of the intelligences with
which we argue against supernatural things.
Unfortunately, you're often evidence of supernatural things.
So what the fuck are you going to do?
Yeah, then on the other hand, there's like
the Buddhist and Advaitist, although Advaitist is more religious, but the Buddhist
discussions surrounding void and emptiness, which are not nothing,
but something more like pure undifferentiated potential.
And that seems to be a polar
what a refutation of the primacy of any idealized God.
I hold those two things together.
The pure undifferentiated potential and the differentiating intelligence.
Those things seem married to me.
Yeah.
And so the differentiating intelligence touches the pure undifferentiated potential
and that should explode into expression.
That's what it looks like to me.
So there's no problem for me really with the idea of
nothingness or void and God, no problem.
But I can see the Buddhists say basically something very simple.
They're like, if you find God, keep going.
That's fascinating because I've always kind of viewed them as nihilists,
like just trying to meditate until they don't exist anymore.
No, they're not nihilistic.
That's a mistake.
There might be nihilistic Buddhists, but Buddhism is not nihilistic.
Neither are the other eliminative meditation religions.
Very few of them, I think, are nihilistic because there's a secret.
The secret is this thing they're calling void is vital.
I don't mean vital is in urgent.
I mean vital is in transcendently meta alive.
And so it's not really nihilism.
What it is, is it's nihilism about differentiation.
Basically, what they're saying is differentiation, all that differentiation,
that's illusion.
That's all illusory.
That's like a kind of dreaming thing that's happening.
And if you cut through the thing that is differentiating,
you will discover this plenum, which is empty.
But it's more than merely intelligent.
It's more than merely alive.
So it's not nihilistic, even though it could seem that way on the surface, I think.
All of this calls back into question something you said earlier,
which is like humans not knowing what they are.
And I consistently...
Oh my fucking god.
If you had any idea, if the humans...
Okay, so I've heard like, I remember hearing about a contact experience between
the occupants of a UFO and some humans.
And the occupants said,
with a sense of great tragedy,
you poor beings, you have no idea what you are.
You are the most endowed form of all the forms we know of.
And you are absolutely fucking crippled by the blindness
imposed on you in your consciousness.
So basically what they're saying is something resembling this.
Angels are jealous of you.
You're like nine different kinds of birds.
You're like all the forms of life on earth, compressed into one,
and all the forms of intelligence in the transcendental layers of existence,
compressed into that same one.
And yet, you will crawl around in the mire of your ignorance, your entire life,
and many, for many thousands of lifetimes, having no idea.
Having no idea that you are beyond, you are the beyond of all things that can be said.
And you are.
Each human child is like this.
They are born this way.
They are born to be both transcendentally finite and the inversion of that.
Angels would plead for the possibilities of a human body
if they could conceivably achieve that without the prison that we suffer.
That is so fucking bad.
The Buddhists know this too.
They will say, I never understood this.
It took me a long time to understand this.
I had to have an experience to understand it.
They basically said to me again and again, I've heard them say this over and over again.
They're like, to be born human is the luckiest birth you can possibly undergo.
Literally, of all possible births, this is the best one.
Even the gods are jealous of this birth.
And it's about as likely as if you dropped a penny and before it landed on your foot,
it traveled to Saturn and started orbiting that planet.
It's like that unlikely, right?
Could happen, but almost never.
And I never understood what they could possibly mean by this.
I was going to say, I have no fucking concept of what that could mean because
it's like consciousness is like a lottery.
I don't think so.
Yeah, that's trippy.
Yeah, I get it.
What they are saying is that it's not consciousness as a lottery.
It's the incarnation of consciousness as a lottery.
And it's not merely a lottery.
It's very complexly karmic.
They will say it's karma.
But what they mean by karma is not the way ordinary humans think about karma at all.
Karma is, in fact, all of the spiritual concepts of the Hindus and the Buddhists are extremely
sophisticated and don't bear much resemblance to what common people think at all.
But what they are saying is, okay, here's what happened to me one time.
I woke up in sleep paralysis a few seconds later because I had planned this.
I had planned to surrender to it.
I gave in and a few seconds later, I was out of my body.
But I wasn't just out of my body as Darren.
Something very weird happened.
I became kind of a monster.
And it seemed like the monster was the...
It was a god.
It was the god that is the source of all movement in all of everything.
And the only thing it could do was move.
It didn't have a vis, it didn't have eyesight.
It's just blackness.
All it could do was move and it moved like a snake.
It was sinuous in this way.
And I was this thing.
And because I moved, all other things moved.
And every movement I made was more ecstatic than the last one.
So it was just this explosive overwhelming power of pure power, like the origin of power.
I was the origin of power and every movement was more ecstatic than the last one.
It was pretty fucking amazing.
And then a few seconds later, boom, I'm back in my body.
And as the power god, origin of movement thing,
I had no recollection of humans or Darren or any of that stuff.
All that shit was gone.
And then boom, I was back in Darren as Darren again.
And I was like, the fuck was that?
And then I was like, God, I'm so fucking happy to be human.
Why?
Because there's nothing you can do.
There's nothing to do as a god.
There's no one to be.
I just, you move your finger and universes of ecstasy arise.
You breathe in and fucking more ecstasy.
You breathe out more ecstasy.
There's no challenge.
There's no anything to do.
There's no one to be.
There's no chance of you having any experience or memory.
You're just fucking power of power of power.
It's really good, but it's the same fucking thing over and over and over again.
And you can't even tell because there's nothing to tell with.
So I realized like, being a god isn't necessarily all it's cracked up to be.
It feels really fucking good and amazing.
I'm not presuming that, by the way, I was transformed into a god.
I'm not presuming that.
But I got the idea that like infinite ecstasy and power is much less interesting than suffering
and challenge and confusion and humanity.
And by the way, the reason the Buddhists say this is the rarest birth is partly because
all of the powers are in us as humans.
They're all potentially right here with us.
And yes, we will miss most of them, but this is one of the only kinds of births
where you're not so either distracted by survival or ecstasy.
Survival, if you're born as an insect or a bird or a beehive or something.
Because you just have to fucking keep surviving moment to moment.
You got no time, no luxury for complex thought or art or anything like this.
Maybe a little bit while you're a child bird.
So on the one hand, you just have like instinct, survival, genetic coding.
You have to follow the fucking protocols and you have very little freedom to diverge from them.
Or you're a god and you have infinite liberty.
But you're so ecstatic.
Existence is so joyful and ecstatic that it would never occur to you
that you should employ that liberty to awaken.
Only in the humans do you have the potential and the liberty to awaken.
This is the argument of, I think this is the, what the Buddhists,
what many Buddhists and other enlightenment traditions would say about the human birth
and why it's so profound.
It's the only one from which you have much of a shot of awakening.
It's not really explicitly true.
There are praying mantises who awaken, there are mice that awaken,
and not all mice are mice either.
Who knows what's inside that fucking thing?
It could be, there could be a god in that little mouse.
In the same way humans briefly become gods, gods briefly become ordinary things.
Joe comes to your door every day for a year and then one day he knocks on your door and you
open your door and it's not Joe.
It's like nine kinds of deity or something is standing out there looking at you from Joe's body.
It does happen.
I would certainly like to experience that.
So I'm curious because I've often, I often think about reincarnation and just,
you know, the implications and I don't understand the forgetfulness aspect of it.
Because to me that transcendence comes with the memory of like,
oh, this is what I was, this is what I've experienced.
You know, I can use that to sort of perpetuate things.
I don't understand why you would forget in between unless you're coming back
to some sort of hub where you're like, oh, okay, now I remember.
Oh, I think you, oh well, okay.
First of all, again, let's start out with honesty.
I don't know.
Yeah, no, neither do I.
And I know, I just want to say that, right?
Because I'm going to, I'm going to talk as if I kind of know, right?
So I don't want to lie about that.
It's so funny.
I see a lot of girls jogging, but there's this one young woman who jogs and her,
her jogging style is so,
it's so feminine that it's, it's foofy.
I don't know how else to put it.
It's almost ridiculously feminine.
And I don't know why.
But, okay, so the forgetting thing.
Say again.
Aesthetics.
Yes, aesthetics.
So, you know, there's some stories that this is like a prison planet and that there's
bad aliens and they have a device on Mars that causes us to forget our previous information.
Yep.
And all this kind of garbage.
I think that's wildly unlikely, but okay, I'm not, I'm not entirely unwilling to
entertain the possibility.
Look, you can break through the amnesia
and breaking through the amnesia will have different kinds of effects depending on
you, your history, your purposes, your passion and so forth.
There is an amnesia.
There is a barrier.
Why it is there and what its purpose is.
I'm not entirely sure.
It might be something like
if your soul was free of that occlusion,
it would become infinitely powerful very quickly.
It seems to me.
But I haven't thought about this carefully.
Why is the amnesia there?
It seems both unnecessary and a kind of artifact.
It might be that.
I thought a little bit about it.
It's a sad thing.
So while I was high one time, I felt that I had the body of a centipede.
And that was a very good experience.
I quite enjoyed it.
Yeah, I like that.
And where were all the previous lives or the segments?
No, that's beautiful though.
Oh, okay.
That's what occurred to me when you said that.
I'm listening.
That is beautiful.
I just had, I just had the body of a centipede.
I was just enjoying the sensation of like,
finally I get to experience like a new body.
That kind of just had me thinking like,
there's so much information that just is not relevant to my current.
And if I was tackling with like,
oh, what is it like to like constantly be a centipede going on the forest floor,
looking for certain types of food,
having knowledge and information on just stuff that could not be applied to me
because I don't live at that scale.
I don't have the same needs.
I don't have the same.
Like it would be a distraction in many ways.
And so perhaps it just is necessary for context of,
you know, your biological needs.
It can maintain the aesthetics needed to enjoy and live in life.
You can't also hold multiple beings unless it provided some sort of benefit.
That's one conclusion that I've drawn.
Okay, that's very fucking pragmatic.
I'm still listening though.
I, well, pragmatism has been most of my thinking in my life.
So I just trust, I think I could slaughter the presuppositions
in the perspective you just presented, but I'm still listening.
Well, that's all I have to say.
So slaughter.
Oh really?
Okay.
Yeah, that doesn't make sense to me at all because
under the influence of complex non-human intelligences,
I had way more abilities and a much greater capacity to enact, explore, and develop my
humanity than I would ever have.
I could imagine that it's at least conceivable that if infinite knowledge were accessible to you,
you would simply, this is actually kind of a trippy idea, I think.
There's going to be a little noise here for a minute.
Sure.
How loud is it?
Not loud at all.
Okay.
So if you had infinite knowledge, I think what you would most likely do is nothing.
You would realize immediately that action of any kind will result in karma,
and the karma will bind you in the, in future, not just you, but your, you know, if you have
children or anything you relate with, it will bind you to repercussive in actions.
And so you would completely retract from action at all, and therefore
not create karma.
But it turns out that people who actually do experience moksha or enlightenment,
often, they do not, right, they,
they will continue to incarnate, in many cases, for the benefit of all beings, altruistically.
Some of them are in their final, what we might think of if time is linear,
as their final incarnation.
I don't know, though.
Again, these are like, these are things I don't know about.
I have tasted something that at least,
the flavor is reminiscent of enlightenment.
And it seemed as though I could conceivably
end the incarnation cycle, but given that choice, given the choice between
liberation for myself and liberating, like being involved in liberating the other beings,
I wanted to liberate the other beings.
I felt like it would be selfish to leave is the feeling I got.
Now, I'm not claiming I had that opportunity or anything like that.
I'm claiming I had those feelings and those senses.
So, you know, there's the idea of the bodhisattva, which is someone
who has the capacity for enlightenment, meaning to escape the cycle of birth and death
and karma entirely, but they don't.
They keep incarnating because the core humans need a fucking lighthouse down here.
They're like ships that keep crashing into coral reefs and stuff.
And so, you know, those humans keep getting born to be lighthouses or something like this.
And I'm not claiming to be such a human or anything like that.
I don't know what I am.
I love the many beings.
I very deeply love them.
And I'm probably selfish too.
I think there is a level of selfishness with all altruism, I don't know,
but I wouldn't call it selfishness.
I think it can just masquerade that way.
Yes, it is.
Okay, you know, yesterday with the little insects who I was trying to rescue,
I certainly got a big payoff.
It was like I won the fucking lottery.
But I wasn't, I don't think I was seeking that.
That's the really strange thing.
I don't think I was seeking that.
It happened and I loved it.
But when I was with the insect and I was hoping for its well-being,
I wasn't trying to win anything.
So then maybe there isn't, I don't, then I think in that case, in those moments,
it isn't selfish.
But I don't know, it's weird because I've had these moments of altruism
where I'm not thinking about being altruistic, it just happens.
But there is a part of me that knows that what's happened is like a meta observer that's like, yes.
So that's the other weird thing.
I think some of our intelligences are actually outside of time.
And so you can have selfish unselfishness.
Yeah, I believe it.
I mean, I'm still trying to figure out all this parapsychological stuff that's happening in my life
because the relation with time is not causal.
I don't know if it is or not.
It doesn't have to be causal for it to happen.
So what do you mean by causal is linearly sequential?
Correct.
Okay.
Yeah, there is a problem with that, all that whole mess because
the appearance of linear temporality is very trenchant,
but it's not primordial.
And I don't understand it either.
I'm just aware that it's not primordial.
I've been outside.
I've seen outside a few times.
Toymaker's mind seems outside,
but it's also really weird because like from Toymaker's perspective,
there is X, which there is no language for.
Then there is what we think of as time and then there is what we think of as space.
Right?
So it's the X thing that is primordial.
Yeah, physicists since, at least since the discovery of the amplituhedron,
which is a way of solving scattering problems that is very profoundly trippy.
They are saying things like it's absolutely clear to us that time space is not fundamental.
All of our theories up till now presumed the primacy of time space.
It's now clear that that can't be true.
So there is some other
like a third thing that's neither time nor space.
Obviously there's consciousness, there's intelligence.
That is neither time nor space,
but that's weird because it has a really powerful relationship with memory.
If you don't have memory, you can't do diddly fuck.
You get nothing.
No religion, no math, no nothing.
You got zero.
Some memories really trippy.
Man, the humans get so charged up about priorities when they're in their cars
that they can just fuck shit up so badly.
You mean like with like road rage and all that?
Yeah, they're just so
triggery, right?
They're very triggery.
Yeah, I imagine it's like the shield.
You're looking at a car, you're not looking at a person anymore.
There's like a loss of sympathy there.
It's also they confuse their body with the container, right?
I don't see it as confusion.
I see it just as an extension.
I feel my car's body as my body is a useful thing.
But I'm aware that it's happening, I guess.
Yeah, I copy that.
One moment.
Yeah, I guess it just depends on if you confuse it as in you forget or if you're conscious of it.
How much of the bouquets?
Okay, I'll just get this.
Okay.
Thank you.
I agree that it's an extension, but it is also confusion.
The car is not your body.
Well, I don't have to insist on that.
There's a similar thing that happens in houses, right?
And it's especially if I conceive of it as belonging to me, then I extend my body.
The house becomes the almost like a representation of my body inside me.
And if someone moves things around in the house, I will be upset.
Yeah, because it's like they're touching my body, even though they're just touching objects.
I know what you mean.
Yeah, and then you have like sentimental value that plays even more into that.
I have not to completely divert us, but I have some more toy maker questions.
I'm with you.
So I've asked you this question in my head so many times because I haven't been able to figure out
like how I want to phrase it, but I'm just going to go for it.
So there is a part of me that so badly just wants to experience something like what you experienced.
You know, I just I want it so badly.
And, you know, I don't I'm not expecting that you have some magic pill that I could take,
you know, where it's like, OK, now I can experience life through this way.
But I was just wondering if, if, you know, there was anything like you mentioned the
hitchhiker effect, you know?
I mean, our conversations are kind of that thing because do you know what trophallaxis is?
No.
When ants and certain other hymenoptera bees and wasps when they meet,
they may exchange oral liquids and these liquids contain hyper complex molecules
that do all kinds of crazy stuff.
Probably when they do trophallaxis, it's much weirder than humans taking psychedelic drugs,
right?
And so funny, me and this guy were approaching the same corner and we both tried to give way to
the other, which failed for it failed for both of us, neither of us got way.
Yeah.
And this is this.
There's a weird problem with humans, which is kind of like, no, you go first, no, you go first.
Yeah.
And as a pedestrian in a in a major city, I have learned that
if I don't want to get into the no, you go first problem with other drivers.
What I have to do is turn the opposite direction from where I'm going.
Right.
So if I'm approaching the intersection and I get there and there's a driver in the
intersection, I turn around because otherwise we're going to get into signaling combat.
And so we like, no, you, no, you, no, you, which doesn't fucking work.
It's not generous to hold each other up that way.
Anyway, what I was saying is
the trophallaxis.
But I want to hear your answer so badly, but you've captivated me with this.
You turn around, you like.
Yeah.
So like, let's say I'm walking forward and I approach the intersection and I see up,
there's a car.
It's about to hit the stop sign.
I spin around facing the direction I have come from.
I see.
And then that gives a clear signal to the driver.
Okay.
I thought you were, I thought you were driving in this instance and I was just like, how.
Oh, that would fuck up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I can't do that.
Cool.
That makes that makes so much more sense.
Okay.
So back to the trophallaxis thing.
Yeah.
So when experiences get together, what they don't realize is that they're doing trophallaxis,
but instead of the oral liquid, they're giving a spiritual substance to each other.
And it has a very similar result.
It produces transformations in the consciousness of the other beings.
And, you know, it's very important, like, consensus and consent are very important
in this milieu, right?
You don't want to force something on anyone.
Totally.
And you also don't want to,
you don't want to create problems or danger for people you're concerned about.
And you do not want to proceed without careful intelligence.
So it, you know, it becomes an orchestration thing.
But, yeah, okay.
So there's, there's the trophallaxis thing, which is actually going on with us.
And most of the people I know, I don't trust their mind enough to,
it's too dangerous for them in my view.
It's too dangerous for them.
You, I'm not sure about.
It might be too dangerous for you.
It might be that the organizing intelligences will buffer themselves appropriately
so that you don't just get inundated.
Here's the thing that I'm going to tell you, though.
It's very simple.
And this is kind of dangerous because we're in a recording and other people may hear this eventually.
You can always pause it.
If you, yeah, that's true.
I wonder if I could, but I'm going to go ahead and say these things anyway.
If you,
if you seek something very passionately,
it's very unlikely that it will withhold itself from you permanently.
Perhaps in the short term.
And there are other problems.
So let's be clear to those who are listening.
We're talking about contact with a transcendental non-human intelligence
that I have a code word for, which I call toy maker.
Because it makes toys of knowledge.
That's why I call it that.
And also because it's sort of like an orbital in the way a shoemaker,
levy the comet is an orbital.
So, you know, originally I thought just like the Hindu disciple that we spoke,
that I spoke of earlier, right?
I thought like, oh, of course we have to give this back to the, everyone should have this.
All right.
We would be able to be live as human beings and so different,
such a beautiful different way if only, you know, this weren't.
Occluded.
And then eventually I realized like, oh,
shit, that would be so fucking dangerous to do that.
There's a good reason why it's not that way.
And then I also thought that people are vulnerable and delicate.
And many of them, they wouldn't be able to.
What they would not.
They would never be able to reorganize coherent consciousness.
It would blow their minds, literally.
Worrying about that.
So all of those things are things to be reasonably concerned about.
This is why you must have a good.
Tether and sense of self-discipline.
Can you say more about like the self-discipline aspect of it and why that's important?
Yeah, like a meditation tradition and also physical disciplines,
such as those emerging from martial arts, cognitive disciplines,
such as those involved in logic, math, and philosophy are useful.
The somatic discipline of listening to the body,
martial arts are part of this, but so is dance.
All of these things are very helpful to keep you grounded if you end up,
you know, in the sort of outer space of contact with an on human intelligence.
But what I I'm going to say something that's much weirder than all of that.
I think that's a good point.
I think that's a good point.
But what I I'm going to say something that's much weirder than all of that.
The thing you're looking for, the thing that you are hoping for
is the thing you are hoping with.
You don't realize this yet, but the possibility of structuring intelligence in your mind
is toy maker.
Hmm.
You are using this intelligence all the time, thinking that it's yours.
It's not yours.
I think without toy maker humans wouldn't have minds.
There wouldn't be minds at all.
Without that, without what I am referring to as toy maker.
And the what of that is a very good luck.
I wish you can lock in figuring that shit out.
Good fucking luck.
And so you're what you're saying is that it's always with us.
It's just you saw much you saw through.
You just I will be unto you.
Should you will be unto you.
Should you see that with which you see?
This is the one thing you can't see.
You cannot see that with which you see, nor can you see your own seeing.
That's just true.
And toy maker is like that experience.
It is like seeing that with which you see.
And it is also a bit like seeing your own seeing as a being.
I mean, I've been meta analyzing my own thoughts a long time.
Surely that's I mean.
Related.
Yeah, related.
But I guess I guess just more more coherence is what I seek.
A larger understanding.
I mean, the human ways of knowledge are rich for those who can play both with and beyond them.
So mathematics, philosophy, biology, logic, computation, right, like
the study of computation itself is very profound.
Both mathematics, okay, both mathematics, okay, actually, it's not really true.
All right, mathematics and computation
will give you ways of seeing that you cannot get anywhere else.
It's very important that you understand the difference between, for example,
a disk, a sphere, and the position above the sphere that is a manifold,
or even the position above the disk that is a Poincar disk.
These things will give you ways of seeing that are like nonhuman intelligences thoughts.
They resemble the thoughts of the ways that nonhuman intelligences think.
There are features inside human knowing that lead outside it,
and by all means study them if you have the inclination to.
Tai Chi, particularly, Tai Chi or any of the Taoist martial arts,
what they call internal martial arts, will also give you a leg up and grounding disciplines,
if you can study these, preferably with an old teacher.
Young teachers, okay, if you can, take what you can get, but an old teacher is always better.
Do you know of any?
Sure, yeah, I do know a few here in the city.
Not too far from San Francisco.
Are you too far from there?
I said I'm not.
Oh yeah, you could, yeah, you could, there are plenty of old teachers here.
They could be hard to convince, teach you, but if you were somewhere near here,
we could study together.
Yeah, that would also.
I may start teaching soon, I think I probably will.
Not that I'm a great teacher or anything, but a good student with a motivated teacher is enough.
All right, so the question is, what can you do?
Work to divest yourself, I mean this is actually from other disciplines, not mine.
It's commonly held that divesting yourself of personal identity and your personal history
are extremely powerful, extremely powerful
accelerants toward this kind of experience and the intelligences.
So like in the castanetian tradition, there's a concept of what they call the inorganic beings.
I suppose Toymaker would probably qualify. Some of those things are predatory,
but the castanetian tradition and other similar shamanic traditions like the maker shamans
who presently exist and have a website you can find and you can study with them,
they will teach you disciplines, particularly the discipline of what is called recapitulation.
Which is complicated. Essentially, it means to erase the
charge to erase the psychic and spiritual charge of historical events.
That's the simple definition. This begins to separate you from the humans rather quickly,
because the humans cultivate those charges. They celebrate, they cultivate and celebrate
those charges. So recapitulation is a discipline that could be useful. I'm not very good at it,
at least I don't think I'm very good at it. I don't know, it's difficult for me to practice.
Unfortunately, I have a couple of problems that I won't hear your name for reasons I'll explain
later. I just imagine that that kind of, I don't know, I immediately think that it would be harder
to have personal relations with other people the way you say that. Those people tend to be isolates
or they hook up only with other practitioners. And by hook up, I mean just like form relationships
I don't necessarily mean. I don't know, I don't know, I kind of like my relationships.
Me too. Yep, I do too.
All of the physical disciplines are useful. Yoga, vegetarianism,
making sure your sleep cycle doesn't get bent, getting exercise and not just exercise like
you get at the gym, but meaningful stuff. All of that, all those kinds of things, right? These are,
these are, these will help.
I mean basically your fascination is enough to get you there.
Really? Because I always thought that it wasn't enough.
No, I think it is because again, you're messing about with,
you're messing about with what you're made of.
Okay. And eventually that's going to create some kind of a feedback loop. Follow me?
Yeah, I follow.
So I think you're, it's like, it's sort of, it's harder to fail than it is to succeed.
I guess I, there is a hesitancy because I don't want to, I do want to have like,
the idea of having keathers is good because there are, I already have those. I have people
and places that can orient me very quickly. I have practices like, like thought patterns
and ways to calm myself when I've been in some of the deepest existential dreads,
you know, like really earth shattering stuff. I've been able to bring myself back just by
talking to myself and moving energy around in my body. So I know that I'm capable of these things.
It's just, you know, not wanting to do it alone. And so the idea of like non-human intelligence
and the way that, the way that you described it, it sounded like it was an entity,
like that was with you and teaching you actively, even when you didn't know what was happening.
And that sort of thing is very appealing to me. Is that what you mean by even,
what do you mean by even when I didn't know what was happening?
The, the, the baby story that you told me about?
Maybe I'll see. No, no, I understand what you're saying.
I guess, I guess what I find is that, yes, I can teach myself things, but I find much greater
success when I'm learning from other people or with other people. Sure. That makes sense to me.
And, you know, we can explore this together if you want, but we will, we will do so cautiously and
perhaps not in this recording any further than we've done today for the, you know, for the moment.
But yes, it's a pursuable thing. I have refrained from pursuing it with others
for a lot of reasons that, you know, I think we're mostly valid.
In this case, they're, in this case, there seem to be reasonable exceptions. So
we can, we can continue to pursue them. Cool.
Yeah. Perhaps we could wrap up for now. Yeah, I'm down for that. Right on.
I'm just going to end the recording here and then we can stay on the call for a minute.
That sounds good to me. Second.
Oh, wow. Did this actually not record?
It says it's still recording. Okay, good.
I can't see. I need to change the setting here.
Hold on.
So weird. It does say it's recording and
