All of our expectation, most of our language, and all of our tradition and common ways of
thinking begin with a strange fiction, and it's the fiction of an individual self.
Now, the reason that the fiction can prevail and proceed is complicated, but it's not too
hard to point at its root. There are some domains in which it is obvious that I am distinct.
For example, I don't seem to be physically touching all of the other human beings on
earth with my body, but yet there are many domains that we can easily verify and see in
which that either isn't true or can't be. Unfortunately, in language and particularly
in law or in logic, individuality is declared. So that means its basis is presumed. And this
is really unusual for thinking, feeling human beings because we're not like that and neither is
anything in nature. So part of the topic I want to orbit is what is the status of our
individuality? What does it mean? But there's a couple of other really important related topics.
The first is how do we make choices about the difference between something that some sort of
information that is veritable, meaning trustworthy and valuable and intelligent, and something else?
How do we choose between a door that could lead to learning and insight, growth, actual
progress and liberty, or might lead to a conversion scheme of some kind where we either knowingly
or unknowingly become like the slaves and replicators of the scheme? Like a meme,
for example. How do we tell the difference? How do we tell whether to trust science or religion?
How do we authorize the content that we're exposed to in waking life? And who is it that does that?
Who decides in us? Who tells us how to authorize or what to dismiss, object to, adopt, surpass?
How do we know? So what's our standard? Where do we get it? And then the third topic is one
that I'm going to call credentialing. So that means, in a sense, what sorts of situations
do we give important status or attention to? What kinds of authorities or sources of information
or media, knowledge, et cetera, belief, opinion? How do we authorize who gets credentials? How do
we give them out? What do they mean? And what's the difference between real credentials, credentials
that matter, and fake ones, credentials that are largely just the presentation of some acquired
piece of status? So all these questions are linked, because part of how we tell who or what we are
may become is by talking about and exploring it together, but also by listening to authorities
or adopting their positions, declarations, or even worse, our extremely poorly understood
misapprehensions or misapplications of something that they said, or we thought they said, or someone
said, and we're not even sure who. Now, this has always been trouble for our people. This is
trouble related to having representational minds and living in representational constructs. And the
conflict between that and the possibilities of our organismal nature, our human nature, and our
nature as an intelligence on her. So there's always been a big tangled knot of mess around all
these topics. And we can include really astonishing things like eventually you get a piece of media
that tells you it is from God. So that piece of media is essentially declaring that it can tell
you what you should do to have a mind, what a soul is, what origin means, what all relationships
mean, what everything is. And that idea is pretty weird. But what I want to do to start out is to
realize that whatever it might mean to be an individual, it's something like we imagine a
puffy dandelion to be, or at least I'm going to make a toy of it this way. So that is it has all
these little strands, and at the ends of the strands are more little strands. It's a flower of
flowers of flowers in a spherical pattern. And what happens at the ends of those flowers isn't
empty space ever. No, because the whole thing is immersed in time space, and the solar system,
the Sun, Earth, Moon relationship, obviously all the local planets and objects flying around
space are included. But then it's also immersed in the field of the entire history and future of
life on Earth. And it's immersed in the actual physical context that it that it is the bio
relational contexts, probably billions of them, that comprise what we call it with one word,
the environment. So there's billions of contexts and relational domains, most of which we'll never
even discover, that we collapse into one frame and call it the environment, so that we don't have
to be afraid of all those billions of frames, we have no idea what they are doing. And this is
one of the dangers, right? It's really easy to take unimaginable infinities of reference frames,
and potentials and transports and relationships and transitions and such, and then just collapse
them into one word so that we can feel masterful and authoritative. So like we know what we're
talking about, call it the environment. But nonetheless, an individual is a bit like this
dandelion, if you will. And instead of each of one of those strands just leading to a single
dimension, they each lead into multiple dimensions of relation, invisible ones, ones we will never
name and notice, that are nonetheless ambiently were made of them, our minds are made of them,
the whole thing is all it's made of something like this. So you've got all these contexts,
you've got this dandelion and you think it's distinct. Well, it's distinguishable, right? And
if a human reaches down and plucks the dandelion, now it's, you know, still, it's distinct from
itself, right? It's distinct from its roots. Now it's an object in the human's possession. But you
can't really separate it from all of those orders that it's recursively emerging with and as and
from. And we imagine as humans that the dandelion has like two or three strands that stick out,
that connect us, I don't know what, to humanity, culture, our nation, some religion. Tell us who
to be and what we are and can't be all of this. And that we're separate, but no one is separate.
And at the same time, everything's not one in some rather insipid way that we often hear the sort
of hallmark card echoes in our memes and poorly articulated delusions about. No, it's much more
sophisticated than everything is one. Now something very amazing is going on. There's many ways in
which we are distinguished individuals. But all of those ways are informed by relationships in
other dimensions that don't just connect us because we're not parts, right? We're not separate
individuals. So they don't just connect us. They inform and instruct and communicate us. They
involve us in communion. So the ways in which we are truly individuals are probably not like those
we believe in practice and think. And the ways in which we are not merely individuals are unlike
those proclaimed by every kind of, well, shall we say, pretender that's incapable of delivering a
direct experience and understanding of this matter, which by the way, should be relatively easy,
and can be. Now part of this problem comes from authority. Our relationship with it,
not necessarily having any kind of good trustworthy basis of local authorization, right,
self authorization, or communal authorization, meaning like we can take something to a group
of intelligent others, and we can all orbit it and examine it and turn it around together and
learn rather than declare what its many natures and possibilities are, rather than having anything
like that. We have something really strange. We have a mostly fictitious, largely verbal system
of broken standard measurements. And these come from authorities, authorities like those,
but stand upon books. There are essentially two different kinds of books. Now I don't want to
create the idea here that books are bad or dangerous, because they're certainly not in
general bad or dangerous. But like any technology like language itself, a large portion of what we
tend to and can do with books is bad or dangerous. Books by themselves aren't good just because
they're books, right? In the same way that language by itself isn't good just because it's
language and we can do it. And machines by themselves are not good just because we can make
them, right? They're very impressive. Once we make them, we've kind of become really deeply
identified with and related with language, books, and machines when we make them or when we
participate in their celebration or even when we somehow pose them intelligently or otherwise,
right? So we can become intelligently very involved with language or we can become sort of
hypnotized and lost, maybe even obliterated by language. Same thing is true, books. Same thing
is true of every technology. How do we tell? How do we tell, for example, if a book could destroy
the world or obliterate the possibility of human intelligence, the real thing? How could we tell
if something, someone's telling us about being a human or being an individual, me talking right now,
for example, is worth our futures. It's worth listening to. It's worth really reflecting on
and challenging and exploring and orbiting and taking apart and putting back together. How can
we tell? Because as a largely fictional self in waking life for most of us, in largely fictional
cultures, the tiny spark of whatever we may be is buried and besieged by language, books,
authorities, statements, and all kinds of phenomenon that have nothing whatsoever to do with being
alive. They have nothing to do with being an organism. They have nothing to do with being an
animal. They have nothing to do with being human. They have nothing to do with being intelligent.
They have nothing to do with being conscious. They have little to do with being together and the
ways in which they do have to do with being together are grossly misoriented in nearly every case.
So for the waking self, the person that wakes up from dreaming in the morning and gets out of bed,
it's facing an impossible, even in the best of conditions, a rather impossible situation.
And for many of us, that situation comes all the way down to who am I? And really basic questions
like what should I think? Do I think? What should I be? Can I be? Who should I be? Should is the
really weird word here as if there's a book of supposed to's somewhere telling them, right?
Meaning that we're depersonated. We awaken and are immediately depersonated by the conflict
between whatever it might be to be alive and an organism in the history of life on earth within
for that sphere and each other and learning and intelligence and development and skillfulness.
What might it be? And then what it actually turns out to be once we open the door,
within which we can still dream a little bit, right? But once we open the door and go out and
act in layers and layers of constructs, books, language, laws, imperatives that override and
tell us what it means to be an individual or to be a man or a woman or to have the experience of
gender or to express gender at all, right? What it means to love and what it must not mean to love.
And that's a really interesting idea that statements and books and things, authorities,
scientists or priests, priestess says, anyone at all, could tell us what it means to love.
This is like someone who has traveled into the desert, never apparently seen water,
talking about swimming in the ocean and pretending these are the same phenomenon.
I mean, a kiss is nothing we can say about kissing. Let's agree on this, right? So telling us
is about love and what can and can't be love is not unlike telling us what can and can't be kissing.
And in fact, we'll find in many cases that those who would like to tell us what can and can't be
love will explicitly tell us who we may and may not kiss and under what conditions and how we may
or may not kiss them and under what conditions. Isn't that fascinating that language supposedly
about love could leap above everything and just declare reality down down to us. And this is the
danger. Now, of course, our people have always faced this terrible danger. And its history isn't
as mechanical as it appears. There are, how should we put it, mythic forces at play. Put it mildly.
But we don't have to believe anything about spooky other universes. We don't have to even believe
anything about souls or religions to understand everything that I've said, you know, so far,
right? We can exclude all of that and just understand that whatever it means to be a being on
earth, it means really that time space, the nature of time space, and the nature of the solar system,
and the nature of life on earth, and the nature of the context human linguistic and otherwise has
produced you, whatever you may or may not be, and in whatever ways you are distinguishable and
distinguished and indistinguishable from these orders of context, right? Everyone can see this,
everyone. It doesn't matter whether you believe in God, you can certainly see that this is so,
right? Instead of time space, you call that heaven, or you call something beyond that heaven from
which time space emerges. So it works for everyone, right? This toy, anyone can play with it. You
don't have to belong to any camp and belonging to any camp shouldn't shouldn't really threaten your
ability to understand this, except that you may begin to notice that belonging to any camp, especially
while we're awake, has really peculiar qualities in that it starts to tell us what things and beings,
relationships, situations, nature, and technology, the universe, souls, our minds are, or are not,
can or cannot be, should or should not be, in language, in books, by authorities who declare
these things to us. And then we decide whether we agree or not, I guess, many of us, or if we even
understand what they're saying. And it gets worse from there because there are probably 10 degrees
of understanding, and I think many of us, myself included, stop at the first one or two, presumably
have understood, go on from there. So how do we tell? How do we tell what it means to be human,
intelligent, alive? What a veritable authority is. And what becomes clear here, which we may not be
able to build in our brief time together right now, is that there's a there's a navigation metaphor
here, we need something like a compass. And its pivots need to work in all kinds of different
situations, many of them almost purely representational mathematics, for example, or science.
But we need some kind of a compass, and it's not like a machine. It's a living compass. It's,
it's like a mind capable of reorganizing its pivots intelligently, within any context,
and determining, for example, distinguishing reference frames, distinguishing declarations
and language from reality, noticing when we're playing with prostheses that are threatening
to become gods, whether we mean that in the sense of capable of declaring identity, responsibility,
obligation, relation, so on, to us from above our human intelligence, or our nature, our connection
with nature, each other, humanity, the history of life on earth, which is perhaps the single most
significant of all possible memberships that each one of us absolutely inviolably is. So not
something we possess membership in. We are membership of that together. In the same way,
we are membership of humanity together. The same way we are, we are the possibility of
intelligence in our people, or its many forgeries. And how should we put it opposites, I guess,
right, we, we don't have these qualities. We either become and express them together or
something else is going on. And it's kind of the same thing with being an individual. So an
individual isn't anything all that special in language is completely empty. It doesn't have
any powers. It seems to only acquire powers in combination with other situations or assets,
like money, right? Or shall we say social cachet, you know, the ability to manage and build and
utilize relationships. I think what I want to get out here is something that I'm in danger of
overlooking. And that makes sense. Every night, when we fall asleep, we dream. And there's something
really funny about language, which is that we say, for example, I had a dream. Now, this is a
really strange idea that the waking self is in possession, sort of, right, that's the implication
of had, of at least the memory of itself having done something. And here's where things get tricky,
and also really beautiful to see into. So it's not we all understand what we mean when we use a
simple language. I'm not trying to pretend we don't. But the waking self and the dreaming mind,
and the various many, you know, ways of having a waking mind are distinctly unique. And the waking
mind, I think the waking thinking mind gets the precedents really confused and thinks, I am in
precedence, and off to the side sort of trivially, I do this thing called dreaming, if I fall asleep,
right. And that's its kind of story about it. It doesn't realize that it's a lot different than
that. So if you can imagine with me a series of figures, you can imagine a manifold, which is
like a flowing changing cloud, but you know, and then that's going to collapse from that down into a
sphere. And then that sphere, and by the way, we're losing dimensionality in each of these
transitions. The sphere is going to collapse down into a disk. And then the disk will collapse
into a line. And then the line will collapse into a point. Now the point is now saying, I had a
cloud, right, as if trivially off to the side, you know, I farted, or something. Like, like, as if
it was something that that point did, when in fact, the point is even being derived from that
manifold right now while it's talking, it just can't detect it at this incredible loss of dimensionality
from this position. So it's almost like someone's index fingernail saying, I had a mind. It's just
the men, the men, the actual metanemic relationship is broken in the way in the waking mind. It
thinks that when it's asleep, it does this strange thing called dreaming. When actuality, what's
happening is that strange thing called dreaming is happening now, but being reorganized in an
incredibly sophisticated and highly structured way, so that it cannot detect itself. The
waking mind doesn't really believe that it could be or be emerging from in this moment, what we
might call the dreaming mind. And the dreaming mind is kind of secretly aware of this relationship.
The waking mind explicitly tends to not be. So when we fall asleep, the waking self, the eye,
the separate distinct self, and everything about identity changes, and something really interesting
happens, we lose all of our status in all the fictional domains and overlays of language,
books, culture, and authorities, all that's gone. It just disappears. And what comes next is a really
peculiar thing, but it isn't something I do, right? Nor is it merely something that happens to me.
It, like a living process, is both the manifold and a position within the manifold as the manifold,
where identity is fluid, and relationships have new dimensions of meaning that are sensible in this
unique domain, right? And so from this incredible changing manifold within a changing manifold,
we go through some steps, and we wake up and emerge as a self, now an individual. Now of course,
even in the dream, we were not an individual, and the status of what it meant to be an individual in
the dream is very strange. But what I want to note, what I want to make clear is this,
whatever the dreaming mind's experience of self likeness is, and of course that changes all the
time in every dream and every mind and every person, it has no real membership in anything that has to
do with words, books, language, or any specific human authorities, none. I mean, not that they
may not appear in in dreams, they can, right? But their authority there is zero, and their
effect on our status is effectively none. Like even in the dream, we may detect an interesting
conflict between the appearance of something that's supposed to declare our authority, and our
real sense of what it means to be aware in the dream. So we emerge from the state of status
lessness to a waking self, which is a lot of really interesting, has a lot of interesting
features. One of them is obvious if you just realized that you could know everything you knew,
and you could love everyone you loved, but you couldn't and everything and whatever, but you
didn't remember any specific history of anything, right? Imagine waking up from a dream with that
particular aspect of the tunnel of your sort of remembered history missing, so that you'd still
have just as strong feelings about everyone and everything, but you wouldn't be able to remember
any specific sequence of anything. And you didn't, so you didn't have any memory of, it would be
impossible to preserve things that didn't serve your intelligence, your development, your insight.
They would just not appear, right? And language and books and authorities are kind of the opposite
of that. Every time you wake up, there they are again, just like they were yesterday, right? So
that even though you dissolve into a cloud-like meta-self that isn't explicitly individual when
you dream, when you emerge, you're going to emerge into substrate that remains kind of the same every
day. And then we come back to that strange question that we began with. How do we tell?
One of the interesting answers is better together when intending to and having agreed to have done
to do so. That's one of the answers. So in that sense, it means that an individual probably can't
very well. Now that doesn't mean it's impossible. An individual can learn to play just like a child
in a room can learn to play in a way that becomes this kind of compass. But the compass works better
when we get a few people, not too many, together to learn how to see and also how to be and become
such a compass. There are a lot of features in our culture that are really peculiar that orbit
authority, authorization, and credentialing. And our actual relationship with these is far,
far deeper and more profound than we can imagine. It's so profound that you might call us the
parahipnotic animal. We are beguiled and hypnotized in a sense of speaking metaphorically, and yet
not entirely metaphorically, by the simple presentation of authority itself, whether it's
been verified or not. And this isn't our natural proclivity, by the way. This is a symptom of living
in fictional contexts and unintelligent opposites of human culture or even humanity. Ordinarily,
we form a compass very naturally because our concerns and the pivots of our relation and thought,
pursuit, writing, and books, how should we put it, is trustworthy, and also self-correcting. It
overthrows itself and reestablishes something better quickly, rather than building churches and
long-sustaining traditions of how things have to be in such declarations of reality. Active human
intelligences aren't very interested in doing that. Too much defense means no forward progress as
can be made clear in any mind, moment, or culture has been made clear in our culture. And also,
then it becomes, what are we defending? And pretty soon we're defending the idea of defense. We're
not actually defending anything. We're impurely conceptual. Now the words themselves have become
the authorities, right? We no longer need scientists or politicians. We no longer need books. We just
need one word, defense. And that becomes the priority. No reference frames, none. They all
collapse to one. No humanity in there. It's uninhabitable. It's a simple imperative in language,
defense. This is the same thing that happens with self. In human culture and in language,
when we can't be intelligent with it together because, well, we're doing every other thing. Not
because we're not inclined to. All of us are deeply inclined towards something like the true
pursuit together of meaningful roles and intelligent human agency activity, ecological
wonder, and communion, right? Every single human being is inclined in this direction. Every single
relationship we have in culture inclines us in some other direction and forcibly conscripts us in
other directions, very severely, cruelly, and in many ways is a process of amputation, circumcision
of our true humanity, our true place in the history and meaning of life on earth in each other's
lives, in our own minds. Come on. In our own homes, right? When we kiss or don't, who and where it's
possible, in every single aspect of our waking lives, there are 17,000 swarming authorities,
scientific, religious, political opinion, just opinions themselves standing over us as authorities,
unexamined, right? Just dead language floating in free space, right? Meanwhile, we're completely
surrounded with boxes, inboxes, looking into boxes, I'm talking into a box now, I'm guessing
you'll probably be listening to me from one, our windows are boxes, we've got boxes within boxes,
within boxes, boxes, and there's a really interesting feature of this. It mimics the most
derivative aspect of waking consciousness, which is like a whiteboard on which something is painted
by what? By who? For what purpose? Does anyone even ask? Is it safe to ask anymore in any context
that we go in while we're awake? Is it safe to ask, what if we washed away the whiteboard?
What if we just cleared it? And what if billions of historical authorities weren't
shining through from the back? What if we just put a filter between that and us for a moment?
So that that entire tunnel of authority and language, books, scientists, priests, statements,
opinions is not with us. And we can now make a mind together, with and for each other,
in and as nature, in and as time space, right? Because that's where everything is, can't get away
from it, can't pretend otherwise. We can find out what that means, or could mean. We could begin to
let a little bit of the dreaming in to what has become the sharpened tip of its opposite.
And then we might have some idea of what it means that we are individuals while we are awake.
And then we might begin to find out, as children are born knowing, that it means something very
beautiful and sacred, and that this is true regardless and long before whether questions of
science, politics, God even arise before they can arise. This is true. And this is true of the
children in nature, and it's true of the children with each other. And they find the adults very,
very incomprehensibly strange, especially their relationship with language, certain kinds of
books, scientists, priests, and other authorities, or even simply statements.
I remember when I was a child, there was an argument in my house because long before I could
understand what it means, I'd come into the possession of a sticker. This was in the 1960s.
And the sticker simply had a flag and a statement, America, love it or leave it.
Now I thought the sticker was really interesting, visually. I had no idea what the implications
of it were. But my parents had a rather significant argument about it, about whether I should,
whether or not I should be allowed to have the sticker. Yes? And I won't replay the content
of the argument, but it resonated in my young mind because a simple statement divided my family
and me into a dimension that had nothing to do with our relationships, or the nature,
or the history of life on earth, or anything real or true. It had to do with whether we were
willing to become compliant with a particular sort of tyrannical fiction and from what angle
and for what purposes, or not, and from what angle or what purposes. In other words, we were
trying to figure out what kind of authority this statement really had. Or rather, my parents being
poorly skilled at such things, were having a bit of a conflict about it. And this looks a lot like
our modern culture, doesn't it? We're arguing over statements from separated positions of
fake individuality and fake membership. We're not truly members of any actual collective that we
formed. We're not true individuals in any sense of having any kind of personal, localized,
authorial intelligence agency compass ability to, how shall we put it,
to make and participate in intelligent teams or contacts groups, collectives,
but if they are with and for each other for the history and future of life on earth to learn
and see and grow and solve a problem. But with those other things in precedence, rather than
having collapsed into from a bunch of separated, very conflicted individuals, we're going to
attempt to solve a problem that our attempt to solve it will create worse problems than,
which seems to be the local custom, temporally, to our epoch. Perhaps we could change that.
I hope that my brief and perhaps slightly disorganized orbit has rather than answered any
questions exposed some that we together can learn to tend and explore, understand, to see with and
into and from, to see beyond some of the, to learn to intelligently see beyond the projections of
authority. And maybe even to stop creating that whole species, right, by doing something else
and becoming something else together with and for each other, something more like intelligence
and less like compliance with a swarming morass of fictions that mimic and advertise
something that quickly becomes its opposite. That's the opposite of us. And I'd like us to
have a direct experience of that together from now on. I look forward to what that may be and become.
Thanks for joining me.
