Once upon a midnight dreary while I pondered weak and weary, over many a quaint and curious
volume of forgotten lore, while I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping,
as if someone gently wrapping, wrapping, at my chamber door, to some visitor I muttered,
tapping at my chamber door, only this, and nothing more.
Ah, distinctly, I remember, it was in the bleak December, and each separate dying ember
wrought its ghost upon the floor, eagerly I wished the morrow, vainly I had sought to
borrow from my books, sir cease of sorrow, sorrow for the lost Lenore, for the rare and
radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore, nameless here, forevermore.
And the silken, sad, uncertain rustling of each purple curtain thrilled me, filled me
with fantastic terrors never felt before, so that now, to still the beating of my heart
I stood repeating, to some visitor in treating entrance, at my chamber door, some late visitor
in treating entrance at my chamber door, this it is, and nothing more.
Presently, my soul grew stronger, hesitating then no longer, sir, said I, or madam, truly
your forgiveness I implore.
But the fact is, I was napping, and so gently you came wrapping, and so faintly you came
tapping, tapping at my chamber door, then I scarce was sure I heard you, here I opened
wide the door, darkness there, and nothing more.
Deep into that darkness, peering long, I stood there wondering, fearing doubting, dreaming
dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before, but the silence was unbroken and the stillness
gave no token, and the only word there spoken was the whispered word, Lenore.
This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word Lenore, merely this and nothing more.
Back into the chamber, turning all my soul within me burning, soon again I heard a tapping
somewhat louder than before, surely, said I, surely that is something at my window lattice,
let me see then what there at is, and this mystery explore, let my heart be still a moment,
and this mystery explore, it is the wind, and nothing more.
Open here I flung the shutter, when with many a flirt and flutter, in their step, a stately
raven of the saintly days of yore, not the least obeisance made he, not a minute stopped
or stayed he, but with main of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door, perched upon
a bust of palace just above my chamber door, perched and sad and nothing more.
Then this ebony bird, beguiling my sad fancy into smiling, by the grave and stern decorum
of the countenance it wore, though thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou, said I, art sure
no craven, ghastly, grim, and ancient raven, wandering from the nightly shore, tell me
what thy lordly name is on the night's plutonian shore, quote the raven, nevermore.
Much I marveled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly, though its answer little
meaning, little relevancy bore, for we cannot help agreeing that no living human being ever
yet was, blessed with seeing, bird above his chamber door, bird or beast upon the sculpted
bust above his chamber door, with such name as nevermore.
But the raven, sitting lonely on the pallid bust spoke only that one word, as if his soul
with that one word he did outpour, nothing farther than he uttered, not a feather than
he fluttered, till I scarcely more than muttered, other friends have flown before, on the morrow
he will leave me, as my hopes have flown before, then the bird said, nevermore.
Sardled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken, doubtless at eye, what it
utters is its only stock and store, caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful disaster
followed fast and followed faster till his songs won burden bore, till the dirges of his
hope that melancholy burden bore of never, nevermore.
But the raven, still beguiling my sad fancy into smiling, straight I wheeled a cushioned
seat in front of bird and bust and door, then upon the velvet sinking I betook myself to
linking fancy unto fancy thinking, what this ominous bird of your, what this grim ungainly
ghastly, gaunt and ominous bird of your, meant in croaking nevermore.
This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing, to the foul whose fiery eyes now
burned into my bosom's core, this and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining,
upon the cushion's velvet lining, that the lamplight bloated o'er, but whose velvet
violet lining, with the lamplight gloating o'er she shall press, ah, nevermore.
Then, methought, the air grew denser, her fume from an unseen censor, swung by serfim,
whose footfalls tinkled on the tufted floor, wretch, I cried, thy God hath lent thee,
by these angels he hath sent thee, respite, respite, and the penthe, for thy memories
of Lenore, quoth, oh, quoth, this kind, the penthe, and forget this lost Lenore.
Quoth the raven, nevermore, prophet, said I, thing of evil, prophet still if bird or
devil, whether tempter sent, or whether tempest toss thee here ashore, desolate, yet all undaunted,
on this desert land enchanted, on this home my horror haunted, tell me, truly, I implore,
is there, is there balm in Gilead, tell me, tell me, I implore, quoth the raven, nevermore.
it, said I, thing of evil, prophet still if bird or devil, by that heaven bent above
us, by that God we both adore, tell this soul with sorrow laden, if within the distant
aidan it shall clasp a sainted maiden, but the angels name Lenore, clasp a rare and radiant
maiden, whom the angels name Lenore, quoth the raven, nevermore.
Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend, I shrieked, upstarting, get thee back into
the tempest, and the night's plutonian shore, leave no black plume as a token of that lie
thy soul hath spoken, leave my loneliness unbroken, quit the bust above my door, take
thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door, quoth the raven, nevermore.
And the raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting, on the pallid bust of Pallas,
just above my chamber door, and his eyes have all the seeming of a demons that is dreaming,
and the lamplight, or him streaming, casts his shadow on the floor, and my soul from
out that shadow that lies floating on the floor shall be lifted, nevermore.
