Hi everybody, welcome.
As a person who, shall I say this,
pays very close and intimate attention to nature,
I saw my first stick insect of my life today,
and I'm hoping I can get an image of it here on the video.
I won't be able to tell because of how the camera's video works,
but I met it this afternoon and I spent some time with it
and I have a little video of me holding it.
So this is it right here.
It's this creature.
And I'm just completely enchanted with this being.
It's so amazing.
I've known of these insects my entire life.
Well, you know, since I was old enough to know that there were things,
that these kinds of things existed, perhaps not my entire life.
Let's say from, not that the correction is important,
but we'll say from maybe age five or six onward.
And it's someone who's profoundly fascinated by insects,
and particularly praying mantises,
apparently the stick insects are considered relatives of them by entomologists.
I wonder what praying mantises would think.
I have a few topics on my mind and I'm not sure how many of them I'll get to,
or if I'll even get to them.
Some of them are rather challenging.
Today I also got to see, or listen to rather,
the beautiful conversation of,
I want to know what kind of birds these are.
They have red under their wings.
They have insect.
They have kind of drilling beaks.
They could be conceivably some form of woodpecker.
They look a bit like large robins.
And when they fly, they make sounds like doves.
And there are unusual pigeons here.
I've seen, but today I got to listen to the beautiful musical conversation
of a pair of woodpeckers.
It could be parent and child, or it could be a mating pair.
I'd like to record that conversation.
I've seen woodpeckers before, but never in such numbers as here.
So, there's so much I want to say.
And yet I'm not sure precisely how to approach the topics that are on my mind.
And most of the topics are about my mind, or our minds.
So, I guess the first thing I want to say is,
if I were speaking with humans,
I might say that I adore nature and living beings and living places.
It's very important to understand this idea of a living place,
because a place is like a being.
It's like an upscale instance of a being,
but it is composed of many beings.
And the sky and history and everything, the universe is there.
So, if I were talking to ordinary humans,
I would tell them things they might understand,
like I adore nature, by which I mean all that is not implicitly artificial.
Some people will claim that artificial things are also part of nature,
and that's a plausible idea, but it's not my idea.
I can entertain that idea with others for philosophical purposes or dialectical purposes.
But I don't see it that way.
Usually, I see a distinction between the artifacts created by humans and...
Good evening!
and the untouched by man universe.
I choose that distinction on purpose,
and it's the one I prefer, but again, it's not the only one I'm capable of entertaining.
So, I would say, you know, I love the living places and all of the trees and the plants and the animals,
and their relationships and how they transform over time,
and I would say, you know, I'm someone fascinated by living things,
because common people would understand that.
But if I were talking to a non-human being that was intelligent,
and I assure you there are such beings,
and not all of them have locality the way we expect beings to have,
then I would say something very different.
I would say, I understand my mind to be the child of the manifold of time space
and the peculiar embodiments of those principles and characteristics
that are local to my world and my place in time on my world,
so that my mind is a child of that tree and that insect, that bird.
It is the child of these things.
These are the extensions of my own mind.
My mind is extensions of their being.
And most humans or many humans would find this to be difficult to understand.
Some of them would find it absurd.
That's entirely okay with me.
I certainly don't expect everyone to have the same perspective that I have,
and actually large portions of my perspective come from experiences that I think are incredibly uncommon
if they've been had by other human beings at all in the past 10,000 years.
And maybe that sounds arrogant to think I've had experiences that no other human beings have had,
and yet for all that our experiences are alike with those of other human beings,
they are also unique, right?
I am the only me that there has ever been, ever will be.
Even if something like reincarnation exists is still true.
I'm the only Darren in this time in this body,
and so many of my experiences are unique to this time in this body,
even if they resemble experiences of others.
But we may also have experiences that do not resemble the experiences of others,
and it is possible to have entirely novel experiences that no other human being has ever had.
It is at least possible.
I'm not making the claim that no one has had anything like the experiences that I've had,
and I'm referring to a set of specific experiences circa, in my life circa 2002,
and then a reflection of them again circa 2009.
And these experiences,
both shattered and reforged everything I ever believed about anything,
the nature of identity, what it means to be an organism, what minds are,
why there are beings, what life and death is about,
what light is, what time,
are ways to think about the nature of light,
ways to think about the nature of time,
ways to think about the nature of relation and minds and all of these things.
And during this experience, I will say that it seemed to me
in a way that's very blatant and obvious that my mind had acquired a companion intelligence
that was so profound and staggering that if it had not severely inhibited its effect
and proximity to my mind, it would have killed me instantly.
The beauty of it would have killed me.
I would have died of ecstasy.
But thankfully, it was gentle with me in the same way that I can be physically gentle
with a very small insect.
At least I like to believe that it was gentle with me and it seems to have been.
I cannot tell whether it was good or evil or if the future of my life was damaged or destroyed
by this experience or if I paid some horrible price, which is certainly possible,
for having this experience.
There are many things I don't know.
But it was like being introduced to my family of origin in time space,
like the family of origin associated with my being rather than simply my humanity.
And it was a bit also like being in a school for children,
like being in a kindergarten and maybe finally getting to first grade after some months of work.
And there were aspects of it that were terrifying, but they were not terrifying
because they were evil, they were terrifying because they were overwhelming
in ways that I'd never expected.
And most of what I talk about is the result of things that I learned
or awareness that I acquired during that experience.
In the sense that my mind and intelligence were radically transformed by that experience.
And it lasted for many months and it was not an experience associated with the use of drugs.
And to this day I find it quite mysterious.
In the grip of the experience itself, there are experiences that are so astonishing
that it does not matter what they are.
You don't care what is going on.
People having sex for the first time or experiencing an orgasm for the first time,
they don't pause in mid-orgasm to go like,
what's going on here, this is really weird.
Instead they reflect on it in hindsight after.
And so it is somewhat like this with the experience that I had.
Though I was curious in situ what was going on and who was talking to me,
who, well of course there was no talking, who had companioned with my mind.
But I had a friend in my intelligence and this friend was once familiar
from childhood, from early childhood, and also beyond anything I'd ever imagined possible
and I am extremely imaginative.
And since then I rarely speak of the experience itself,
but am more inclined to talk about what I've learned,
or the perspectives that I've been able to acquire
since I had that experience.
But in my interiority and my private life I often reflect upon it
and would like to understand in some way, you know,
what was, who was that, what was that being
that became my companion and my teacher and my parent.
And why did it go away?
And where did it go?
And what are the repercussions of having had such an experience, yeah?
It was not episodic, it was all day every day.
Good evening.
Nice to see you.
Hi bud.
Hi.
It's okay.
It's alright.
See, there's one of the life forms.
I like these life forms.
I'm not disturbed by them.
Though this one has long been, this is,
this one is a symbiont of our people, right?
A very important,
complex word escapes me now.
Perhaps my vocabulary will come back online in a bit.
So yeah, the experience wasn't episodic,
it was constant for many months.
At least nine.
And while the other intelligence was with me,
I had senses and some abilities
that surely appeared supernatural to me
and to many of those around me
and those who experienced my expression of them.
And in a way it was like
having been blind my entire life
in my mind.
Having been blind in my mind my entire life
or having been unable, having been crippled in such a way
that my mind could only move locally
and then suddenly being given like
twelve new kinds of eyes
and six new forms of movement.
My mind could fly in ways
it had only ever crawled before.
And there are stories like this
and there are also films about similar situations.
Films like Powder or Man Facing Southeast
or Capex.
Stories like Flowers for Algernon.
Trying to think of some others.
White Fang Goes Dingo is a related story
by Thomas Dish.
And I've read thousands of science fiction stories
and I've read quite a bit of
religious literature
including exotic literature
and I've seen no sign of anything like what happened to me
although it's conceivable
that the event
in the Thelemic tradition known as
obtaining the conversation of the guardian angel
may resemble something like what happened to me.
As I've never been able to speak with anyone
who has accomplished that task
or written about that much
it's hard to know
and even if there is a likeness in their story
and my experience
it does not render them the same.
This morning when I awoke from dreaming
I've been very happy for the past few days
because my dreaming
has been rich
and more like
what I know of my dreaming mind
than it has been for quite some time.
This morning even though I could only remember
perhaps half of the dreaming experience I'd had
or organized that half in memory
it took me an hour to record what I'd been dreaming.
And I woke up feeling so inspired
about and so happy
about not just dreaming
but the nature of our minds
and dreaming is one of the places
in our day-to-day experience
where we have non-ordinary experience
every single night
and you could say well doesn't that render it ordinary
and of course I would agree
that nominally that's true
except that our mind creates a universe
every time we dream
and the word dreaming is a bit problematic
because there are at least
I don't know there are many forms of dreaming
and one could say that each dream
while yet being a dream is so unique
as to be its own kind of thing.
But I woke up this morning
with this strong sense that
we are trapped and crippled
in our modern humanity
we're missing 100 faculties
of consciousness and awareness
thought and memory
we're missing 50
I don't want to call them functions
abilities that our minds have
including those that are probably
the origin and purpose of our minds
we're completely oblivious
in our modernity
to the nature, origin and purpose of our minds
and while I can't fix that
I can't repair that problem
and I suffer from it myself now again
as I did prior to my awakening
prior to the experiences that awoke
my awareness of these matters
directly in me
I'm always speculated and curious
This morning I was just profoundly aware
that of the terrible impoverishment
we've suffered as moderns
and continue to suffer
and that our children will likely continue
to suffer even more severe versions of
the loss of the understanding and relationships
from which I believe
human consciousness most likely originated
and then over time
these faculties and abilities were lost
and became partly how they were lost
is they were represented
we made images and models
the making of images
you don't make models of your child
you don't make models of your parent
you don't write a book about a kiss
and so as we lost these experiences
so that they might be somehow
peripherally accessible to our imagination
they were represented
in ideas and concepts
like angels and gods
jinn
devas
fairies
demons
devils
and so on
but all of these representations
are like a matchstick
like a charred matchstick compared to a galaxy
a galaxy is our human
the inheritance that awaits
our retrieval of it
if it is possible for us to retrieve it
and my experience strongly implies that it is
and yet that's a very dangerous process
extremely dangerous
can easily destroy one's mind
especially the sort of relatively
ill-equipped consciousness and awareness that us moderns have
I was perhaps slightly better equipped for the experience
and perhaps that has something to do with why I had it
I do not know
one of the questions about my experience is, you know, why me
the day moon
probably almost invisible on the video
but perfectly visible to me
and beautiful
approaching fullness
so this morning as I awoke from my dreaming experience
which was fascinating and strange
and heartful and beautiful
and in that experience I had other senses
and this is the thing, in dreaming we have other senses
we don't just see
and nor do we really speak much or hear, usually
again, there are exceptions
but language and dreaming are mostly in conflict
we may remember the words of a conversation
but it's unlikely that they were spoken and heard in the dream
if we pay very close attention we will discover
that most of the time something else is happening
and also the felt sense of linearity
may also be
a post-awakening
mechanic
something applied by the waking mind post-hoc to
the formations of memory associated with the dream
although I'll admit
that everything I understand about dreaming
it's very strange
I've never seen this before
it's a telephone pole
but it's not
it's made of some artificial substance
I'm sure it's very common
but I've never seen it
Jack, I don't know what this actually says
but I wonder what that number means
so in my dream I had other senses and faculties
and obviously other abilities
I mean, things happened in the dream that simply can't happen in physical reality
and they seemed entirely normal in the context of the dream
and this is very important
because
it both asserts and proves
that our minds have abilities, faculties and capacities
that are largely unavailable to us while we are awake
with some few exceptions
there are people who specialize in
certain kinds of techniques
or maybe natural abilities
that they always had
that allow them to manipulate consciousness and awareness
or to transform it or inform it
in ways that many of us would find
absolutely shocking or even impossible
and there are those people who can manipulate the consciousness and awareness of others
more or less directly as well
but all of us have the faculty of dreaming
well, nearly all of us
we might imagine
or the experience of dreaming
and the array of abilities and faculties that are associated with it
and what I want to say is something
I'm always trying to say
in so many different ways
I still have some sap on my forehead
our minds are not like what we're told or think at all
what we are told or think about our minds
an analogy would be if you took the tip of your pinky joint
and none of the rest of your body
and you just only had this to look at
and you could see nothing else
this is an analogy of what we know of our minds
most of us moderns
and there's a whole other universe
of experience and opportunity
available to us
but we are inhibited from discovering or experiencing it
in a vast plethora of ways
by our technologies and ideas
by our concepts, by science
I'm not intending to cast shade on science here
and even just to say science is such a bizarre thing
because what do I really mean?
what am I encompassing?
it's too general, right?
but if I mean merely the method
the scientific method
and the ideologies
and arguments
that proceed from the method
into the public
into the awareness of the public
it's very strange
I've drilled a huge hole in this rock
and then the products
the produce of scientific endeavor
also I mean this by science
so there are many factors that inhibit our capacity
to discover and recover
nourish, nurture, explore and develop
the rest of the capacities of our human awareness
consciousness and intelligence
also our emotions and our imagination
and most of us come I think to human birth
with some of the faculties and potentials intact
but as we are enculturated
and undergo the process of in-languaging
the essential energies
that would ordinarily result
or might ordinarily result
in the establishment, nurturance and development
of these faculties and abilities
it gets shunted into representational cognition
and over time that becomes
more and more dominant
and you can see the same thing
in human cultures and society
in the evolution of consciousness
and also in the evolution of what we think of as culture
and society and politics and so on
what you see is this recursive process
of the death of novelty
wonder, awe, awareness, mystery
into structured representations
machines, processes, computation
artifacts, data and so on
but there are a few more things I want to say
our minds are capable of forms of travel
and union, communion
that we would never ordinarily believe
our minds are capable of sharing
the consciousness of other beings
directly as our own consciousness
and sharing the awareness
or consciousness of living places
and also of other places and other times
of other worlds, of other stars
of other forms of being
we have no concepts of in our lexicon
though some of the concepts in our lexicon
may resemble them
our lexicons
and
our minds are made for communion
for ecstatic communality
with other beings
for other beings
our minds are made for ecstasies
so staggering
that orgasm
becomes uninteresting
in the face of such ecstasy
and one of the things that occurred to me this morning as I awoke
was that sex and orgasm are mere representations
of something so astonishing
that we have failed to imagine it as human beings
perhaps because we have these things
instead
and I do not know
if I will be capable
of communicating clearly
enough to catalyze such experience in others
what I have seen and known and experienced
and I am also not entirely sure
that it would be safe for me to do so
or safe for other people
in fact it seems unlikely that it would be safe
but this much I will say
the experiences of dreaming and psychedelia
profound as they are
and of orgasm
and other kinds of ecstasy
pale in comparison to the capacities of our awareness and consciousness
they are
how shall I put this
unimaginably modest
and sometimes very deceptive
because we can experience forms of ecstasy
or transformations of consciousness
that seem incredibly profound superficially
and yet do not truly deliver the depth
and content into our life and experience
and ability
they do not awaken the faculties of our minds
that lie hibernating or nascent in all of us
and it's my dream
that one day we may find a way to do so
that won't destroy us outright
and these are some of the things I have been thinking today
in the wake of my dreaming experience last night
an experience in which I was able to travel in time
and find my way back
I knew how to return to my normal temporality
and I wanted to bring someone with me
but before I was able to do so I awoke
and there were many other features of the dream
I just feel so grateful to be experiencing rich dreaming
and there are many people I know who think of dreaming as kind of nonsense
they don't really care whether they dream or not
for me dreaming is like breathing
or drinking water, eating food, without it there is no life
I'm so grateful for my dreaming experience
and I encourage all of you to explore it
but not when I say explore it you must explore it in person
not through the theories or books of others
though you may include those peripherally
be careful of validating them
there is no explanation of dreaming I've ever come across
having read many books on the topic
that compares it all to the actual experience
it's the same thing about writing books about kissing
a kiss is viscerally transcendental
so too a dream
although a kiss is more viscerally so
and I'm not trying to dismiss the research and work
of many brilliant men and women
over time
what I'm trying to say is that the actual situation will never be encompassed by the waking mind
so you can forget about models
models have nothing to do with it
we can learn things and techniques and so on from others
and that's important
but never take the model for the infinite extent of that toward which it points
and never believe that the model encompasses that toward which it points
because that is never
I think almost never true
there might be some trivial instances in which it can be
they're not worth exploring at the moment
so yeah today I just feel this incredible gratitude
for the reawakening of some of my inspiration
and the return of some of the richness of my dreaming experience
and I hope I think another thing that I find interesting about dreaming
and also about our minds and our faculties
our minds and their faculties and their abilities is
that when we talk about them
they listen
we talk about the dreaming mind so to speak
if we think of it, you know, if I frame it in this language
it's hearing, it knows, we're talking about it
while we're over here on the other side of consciousness
awake
and it responds to being paid attention
because there is a kind of, in most of us, a very severe division
in consciousness between
the waking aspects of consciousness and the sleeping and dreaming aspects
and though they are intimately bound together
many of the waking aspects would summarily destroy the other ones
if they could get away with it
which would be terribly unfortunate since the other ones are the origin
of those waking aspects
moment to moment, not just historically
or over time
so I encourage you to explore the possibilities
of your human incarnation
particularly with your attention on
the aspects you trust
as being most noble or virtuous
most beautiful, most trustworthy
for there is a path back upstream
within us and within our relationships as well
toward our homeland
a place from whence our essences arise, arose, arise
the origin, the origin place
where our original family yet dwells
thank you for joining me
grateful to have this opportunity
to share and wonder and learn together again
and I hope we shall have more soon
my wife for now
