I am at the place where I ordinarily think of
as a social pond. It's the largest very small body of water in the botanical gardens.
So the whole topic that I was going to talk about has just dissolved into another topic because
I am watching one of the most astonishing things, but I have defected by being willing to make
this recording instead of simply attending and participating in what I can see. And what I can
see is I am watching the water and its surface is very mirror like in the afternoon. And the surface
is fairly calm, but it is warbling. The surface of the water is warbling. Or maybe that's an auditory term.
I can see very complex patterns of gentle wave like movement all over the surface. And in that movement are reflected trees fairly clearly.
And as I watch the wavelets passing along the length of the tree, they produce a visual situation.
But they also produce a sort of self-amplifying wave within the other waves that suggests a hidden dimension of movement.
There is a dimension orthogonal to our visual senses that is suggested by the pattern of the ripples and the transformation of the reflections.
Now, one thing I don't know is where is the reflection? It's a three-dimensional sense. And when I look down into the water, it is as if I am looking up into the sky.
And the whole affair is extremely profound, but what happened a moment ago is that some crows flew by. So I was watching the crows flying in the upside-down mirror.
And they were calling to one another, and the calling appeared to undergo a dramatic frequency transformation, sort of a reverse Doppler, where at first the calls were high-pitched and common.
And then as they got just a little further away from me, they transformed and seemed to elongate and lower in frequency.
This social pond, I call it this because it's very protected. Water birds passing through the area might be likely to at least visit the spot, especially if they needed protection, though there are nearby coyotes.
And I once at night heard what I'm fairly sure is a coyote getting, uh, preying upon a duck because the duck made sounds I have certainly never heard from a duck.
I'm still watching the water. And it's so funny. There are certain phenomena in nature.
Okay, actually it's much weirder than that. By the way, I've been kneeling and there's two, four, six, eight, ten carp looking up at me from the water, right, where I've been kneeling.
And it's enchanting to think that it's all the magic of I love the carp and they love me, but I'm pretty sure it involves them having been fed by humans for many, many generations and being synanthropically linked and aware of humans.
So this phenomenon that I'm experiencing, which I have defected from by talking about it, let's be clear. It's like I see the most beautiful woman in the universe. She beckons to me.
And instead of embracing her, I'm going to lecture about her beauty and profundity to my peers, right. That's the degree of ignorance I'm displaying at the moment.
So funny on the other side of the little bridge, the sun is reflected in the water and the situation is so much different. It's almost like a different universe on these two sides.
On this side, the sky is blue. There are a few cotton balls. The reflections of the trees are bright green and golden and gray and different colors. On this side, everything is like black and white.
There's a painting of tufts thin layered tufts of cloud. The reflections of these trees in the palms are all black and the sun.
Also, the wavelets are not complex in the same visual way they are on the other side. So one of the things I was asking a moment ago is where is the reflection?
It is not, we all will think the reflection is clearly on the surface of the water. This is our natural rational mind.
But I suspect that like the rainbow, the reflection is not located anywhere at all. It moves as I move.
You know, instead of if a tree falls in the forest, is there any sound? Perhaps a similar but more useful in some ways question is, if the light hits the water of the social pond and there are no eyes seeing it, is there a reflection there?
Like, is the reflection actually there?
Now with these kinds of questions we should acknowledge, I'm going to be very rational for a moment, a problem with the question. If a tree falls in the forest, there isn't a forest without other sonically sensitive creatures.
And the plants themselves are likely to be sonically sensitive. All of the bacteria in the soil, probably sonically sensitive.
So, what he's really asking is something more like, but he's using the wrong theater, because you won't have a forest without beings.
Like a forest is unembodied, both unitary, it's just one thing, and diverse, the many, many participants.
All forests are like this. So there's no forest.
And then you can take the question apart a little bit differently in language and ask, a tree falls in a forest with no humans.
Since humans specify sonic vibrations in atmospheres with the word sound and there are no humans there, does the sound emerge?
There's lots of ways to approach the question, right? Is there a sound if there are no humans to call it a sound? Is another way.
And then, I think as I said previously, not to repeat myself, but inside a box, if I click a clicker and there are no observers and nothing, we can insulate the box from the outside.
Does the sound happen in there? What happens in there? What is that?
And obviously, it should be obvious to us that at the very least, unobserved phenomena comprise a special category of conceptual reference, right?
Unobserved phenomenon are the subjects of human cognitive conceptual manipulation, right?
So they exist, but they exist in the subcategory, right? They first exist for us in the category of what we might call imagination or speculation.
Now, there is a problem where if you removed humans, not sure this is actually possible, but you might be able to extinguish them.
But if you removed humans from Earth, all human concepts go with them.
At least, presuming that the resulting now, and then again now, right, the resulting existence, iterations of existence, except they're not iterations, it's a wave.
I think the raptors are mating this moon. They're being particularly demonstrative today.
Katoi, the moon where, at least in the Blackfoot territory, is different in different places.
This is the winter moon where food supplies are running out.
And our survival depends on us sharing together.
It is cold, little ones and elderly, some of them are dying.
There are accidents.
The ice and cold are severe. Food is difficult to obtain.
Have to share from whatever we have stored up.
Probably the concept that interest in commerce, compounding interest in commerce, is a lethal abstraction of.
The extra. We have to share the extra, and if you invert that, you have to give us extra.
Because we had a relationship ten years ago, for a minute.
We have to give us extra forever.
Alright, so much to get out here.
Without exhausting my listeners, and thank you for bearing with me, all of you who do.
Was it Bishop Berkeley question about this tree in the forest? I can't remember, for sure.
But the question of where is the rainbow?
A question meaningfully posed in my experience by Owen Barfield in saving me appearances.
Subtext, a study in idolatry.
Very interesting subtext title there.
Similarly, I think the reflection in the water. I am really not sure where that is.
It is probably in the relationship between my awareness, the sky, the water's surface, light, time.
I mean, my body, my ancestors, this place on earth, this time on earth, all these things, right?
All of these produce the reflection in the water through their complementary participation or something.
In that each adds something to the recipe until what emerges is, and this is where things are going to get a little weird, folks.
What actually emerges is a portal to another universe.
A nobody who hasn't experienced this.
And certainly nearly zero rational pragmatic scientific people or science-y-minded people.
There is no chance of them believing me.
Apologies for all the noise.
It's weird, I went from a literally placid, calming, profound visual experience to a very disturbing auditory experience.
Hopefully most of that is done with.
No one will believe, very few people will believe, that that reflection on the surface of the water comprises a transport, which is what I just suggested.
Now I am going to make other absurd suggestions of similar ilk.
In fact, they're going, if you think that's crazy, wait till you see where I'm going.
I remember a beautiful afternoon a long time ago when my father was with me and I took him to a place in these gardens called the Moon Pool.
And the Moon Pool's purpose, well, the reason it is called that way, has to do with a traditional Japanese,
a specific Japanese tradition involving the creation and maintenance of small, beautiful pools of water in which one could observe the moon on clear nights.
Ironically, this Moon Pool cannot be used unless you break the rules of the garden and stay often long after closing.
No one really comes to kick you out generally, though they could, if possible.
Now I understand.
Wow, I just learned something astonishing.
I've got to stay with the topic or we'll just keep branching wildly.
The people who came before us, the people of long ago, especially before there were cities and when the peoples, the human peoples,
had very intimate relationships with living places and creatures and developed very sophisticated and intelligent traditional knowledge systems
that were technologies in the sense of partly being comprised of methods,
but they were relational technologies rather than physical technologies.
The ancient peoples were aware and sensitive to and sensorially and consciously aware of and receptive to
what we could call languages but we'd be lying, transformations of the manifold of consciousness and relation in the living places around them.
And some of those peoples who have existing progeny still maintain some portion of the library of the knowledge they once held.
And others, there are examples in which either the knowledge wasn't preserved or it was not very well developed.
And I mentioned this just so that we don't become confused and think,
Darren means all indigenous people were relational geniuses.
It seems unlikely.
The diversity of tribal forms and places and times and situations produces a diversity of what we might call more and less.
I keep wanting to use the word intelligence but it's not correct.
Branches where there are complex forms of deep relational awareness and understanding and branches where there are less complex forms of toolmaking, problem solving, so forth.
By the way, once you start getting towards toolmaking, the things probably going away soon.
Because by the time that happens, colonists from elsewhere are going to bring guns and just wipe you in disease and gold and whiskey and whatever, just wipe you out.
And enslave what they can't wipe out.
Because those people were already infected with that disease themselves long time ago.
In any case, the ancient peoples knew something that I'm going to talk about today.
And this came up in a conversation with my dear brother JK the other night.
And what a conversation that was, I gotta say.
In a sense, where I'm going to go now is in a direction related perhaps to teleology.
Associated questions.
Why are there humans?
And what are we supposed to be doing?
Presuming that there might be, whether or not there's in the sky a great supposed to her, Tony and Johnny Sposta.
We wrote the book.
What you're supposed to do.
We live in joysy.
So whether or not there's a great supposed to her in the sky, there certainly are a vast array of forms of relational prodigy.
That the human animal is born equipped for and becomes uniquely more equipped for throughout each of its developmental cycles.
As if, literally, you're looking at a kind of a flower that develops multiple different forms of blossoms.
Each productive of both nectar and pollen in different life phases and even in different circumstances.
The shape, mode and the kind of a pollinator that's being sought by this invisible flower inside us changes dramatically.
And in a sense, holy shit, okay, you could imagine, I'm actually having trouble because of the degree of, because of the profundity of the metaphor I've just stumbled on, which I have never seen before.
Shit, okay.
So, you can see that all of the features of modernity have weaponized the production inside us in our felt sense of orientation, purpose, motive, all these things.
Potential relation, actual relation, simulated relation, potential intelligence, actual intelligence simulated intelligence, potential romance, actual, simulated sex, actual sex, simulated sex, potential heroism, actual heroism, simulated heroism.
and all of these, you know, potential wealth, actual wealth, having probably nothing to
do with money, simulated wealth, the stuff you get in video games, right? You can see
that all of the branches of the domineering, penetrative, false masculine aspects of civilization,
modernity, commerce, language, concept, religion, politics, so on. These are causally shaping,
and I would argue amputating, they're amputating the kinds of flowers inside us that don't
produce pollen and nectar they can steal and commodify, right, which is these days
just human attention. Primary commodity on the face of the earth isn't money, it's human
attention. So you can see these basically non-human protocols or algorithms. They are
a vast library of para-algorithmic processes that, in fact, humans at the level of relation
and cognition. These processes I call thrips, right, they reshape the flowers we will produce
to those better suited to extraction, right? That's the goal, extraction. Slavery, extraction,
rape are basically the primary goals of enacted by thrips in human megacultures and small
cultures. So all of these things are shaping the flowers I was talking about, but those
flowers were meant for relation with actual pollinators, and this is the crazy thing.
And what are the actual pollinators? Well, they are nature, itself, well, it, themselves,
I don't know what the pronoun for the source of pronouns is, but the earth as a biorelational
hyper structure which is more than a being and produces beings as an intentional side
product of its natural activity and being the same kind of a flowering differently over
time thing whose pollinators exist in crude physical form as if the earth were an ovum
in the gravity womb of the sun whose gender we need not state since there's not going
to be any gender without that thing around here. Once again, you have a meta position,
but if in this model for just to trigger people, we call the sun masculine and the earth feminine,
and we imagine that the earth is a transcendent biorelational hyper structure in a sort of
a marriage with the fabric of time space, the transcendences that dwell there and the sun,
and the moon, of course, then we can see the transformations in the moon change the kinds
of literal flowers the earth produces, change which pollinators tend them and why, and so forth.
Right? So I'm enraptured by this metaphor because as single humans we were born for
kinds of relationships we don't believe exist. We don't have language or concepts for them,
and some of the only similar things we have are things from religion, some specific branches of
philosophy, basically zero, well not zero, we can get a lot of symbiosis. Wow. There's certain
branches of biology and perhaps psychology that could teach us something about these matters,
and then we have addiction which is basically the selection of the frustrated selection of
substitutes for pollination that would otherwise be occurring if our culture wasn't both failing
to produce the contexts in which the pollinators thrive, much as we're doing in the actual ecologies
of earth by poisoning them and monoculturing them. We're doing these, RCCs does the things that,
that's the reason the metaphor is so powerful, right? So I mean just imagine over time you're
meant to produce all these different flowers, different forms of nectar, different kinds of
pollen, some features of which are penetrative in that they outwardly seek for relational
participatory fulfillment and some receptive in that they actively attract and filter, just like
the other one does, forms of relational intimacy and fulfillment. Give me a moment, I'm recalibrating.
Hi. You will notice this principle in every aspect of human behavior, right? This is so
foundational, and this is what happened is I started at a pretty foundational point of interest,
and then I slipped accidentally by watching the reflection into a much deeper one. And then due
to my great good fortune, that happened again and I came up with a metaphor I've never seen
before. Well, I actually, I've known this before, I never formalized it in consciousness so that I
could say it. So you produce these flowers over time, different life phases, different flowers.
You almost never see authentic pollinators. Gods and angels, demons, vampires, zombies,
these are representative supernatural fictions or myths, right? I'm not saying they're fictions,
exactly. Clearly, there's plenty that's vampiric about human culture, or rather, especially human
techno culture. And similarly, there's, you know, zombiedom is real. Or at least we've made it real.
Like canthropy, there must be another word that just means to change into an animal.
Perhaps the word on a wall might have that connotation in some circles. That's real.
So I'm going to circle back.
Where is the reflection?
Why would I say something so crazy sounding as
under certain conditions,
human consciousness is able. And by consciousness, I don't just mean the kind of thing we're familiar
with. I mean the actual stuff. The essence of our being, which we could call a soul,
is able to utilize features of the natural environment to achieve what I'll call
a perceptual and relational and possibly a temporal superposition.
And from there, it naturally will travel. It is made for travel. And this is what I meant earlier
when I talked about teleology. What are we here for? Why? What are we good at? What are we
doing? What are we supposed to be doing in one kind of language? And what are we the most fit for
that we are relatively unaware of in another kind of language?
Now ancient peoples developed technologies that were a-mechanical in the sense they were relational
and they were fundamentally
features involving the intentional transformation of consciousness.
And I will argue that one of the most common goals of that attempt, which very often succeeded,
probably nearly always succeeded in the cases of many of the humans who've ever lived,
in fact can succeed for us pretty quick under the right conditions and with a little help.
And by help, I mean relationships, not drugs.
Though drugs under some conditions can produce
related phenomena in consciousness.
So what are we fit for? And what I'm trying to say
is that in the same way
that fish appear to be fit for swimming,
we are fit for travel within the body mind of something we have never,
well, some science fiction and fantasy authors have conceived of at least things that resemble it,
something we have no common concepts about at all.
The closest concepts we have are things like words like the universe, time space, creation,
reality existence, the possibility space.
These are phrases that point at what I call the supercontainer.
Which is the everything. It's the parent from which all phenomena inherit their qualities
and potentials, purposes, if they have such, purposive natures, which they certainly have.
So I think it's important
okay, it's important to not have an explicitly closed model of the supercontainer.
If you think you have a firm grasp upon it,
that mistake will make you dumb and trap you in all kinds of ways.
So whatever the supercontainer is,
I'm going to call it the universe within an asterisk and the asterisk represents everything I don't,
I haven't, everything I don't know, can't know, haven't said, can't say, and
you know, the actual possibility space, discovery space, and so forth, all these things.
But I do not think of it as a thing. It's not an object.
The asterisk is its non-ordinary originating aspect.
So we have to have incompleteness built, baked in.
And this is something English is terrible at.
In any case, I think you get the idea. You don't want an explicit closed definition of the supercontainer.
Anything that tries to explicitly close it and say, this is what it is,
comprises an attack on the supercontainer. And some of those attacks are useful for
perspective, but some of them are lethal for what they evict from our awareness and access.
So when I talk about time space or the sun or the earth, I often use the term transcendent.
It's a neologism, which I invented, I think, more than 20 years ago in my writings.
But whatever the universe is, is meta to that. I don't have a word for that.
I mean, the only word I have is originary or something.
And so the universe is not a thing. It is not merely a being. It is a category above being
in my common thought. But nonetheless,
in consciousness, I tend to personate it in cognition and in category.
Or I meta-personate it so that it's more than a being, but being-ish,
if that makes any sense.
And we are meant to travel in that. We are born for travel in that.
I would argue that we are born from travel in that. Now, there are many other ways to look at this,
but when William S. Burroughs, who said a couple of very interesting things,
one, he probably isn't the first person to say this, but he is certainly the first to popularize
it, I think. Language is a virus from outer space. There's probably a lot more wisdom in that comment
than can possibly appear immediately to consciousness from considering its implications.
And that turns out to be true even if the statement isn't true. It's such a useful lens
that it doesn't matter whether it's true or not. It's really useful for those who intend to make
good use of such a lens. But the other thing, and this is the thing that struck me when I was
looking at the reflection in the water and wondering, where is the reflection?
And in case someone thinks they can answer this question, they can't because
it's impossible to produce an unobserved reflection for testing.
This is why the unobserved comprises a special category of things we can think or speak about,
speculate about. And sometimes we can weasel our way into a method of observation,
usually technologically, for humans. But for the older humans, they didn't have
large Hadron colliders and things. They had to do the experiments with consciousness and
transforming it. And what I will argue is that if you merely, like there are many layers, and if
you just go up one or two, okay, up isn't necessarily true. If you move one or two layers,
there's sort of two directions, right? There's a direction more toward physical sensation,
which turns out to be filled with portals to travel in, right? If the physical sensations become,
if they are intensified in certain ways that don't merely cause us to like shut down or run away.
They lead to feedback events that resemble orgasm. And let me be very clear that the
physical orgasm is one branch on a tree with a thousand branches, or maybe an infinite number
of branches that humans are capable of developing. And not so many of the people who become connoisseurs
of physical orgasm will come to understand that there are other kinds. And when I speak of travel
in the thing I haven't named yet, that is one of the kinds. That is an ecstatic experience
of liberation from everything familiar. Well, not always. From many limitations that are familiar.
And what I was arguing was that the ancient peoples, if you want specific evidence of this,
the
in stories of Toltec, and perhaps Aztec, Mixatec, and other South American and Central American
indigenous peoples, there are traditions where training for a certain kind of travel
involves mirrors. Now obviously it was difficult, we can't be sure of this,
we are likely to think it was difficult for ancient peoples to produce good mirrors.
But they had bowls of water, and they could also produce black mirrors, obsidian mirrors.
We have the tropes of magic that involve gypsies looking into crystal balls and so
forth. And I'm not trying to denigrate that trope, only to say that
it doesn't originate from having been made up, it's not from make-believe.
One can train consciousness to produce feedback with almost any form of a shiny surface.
Under the right conditions of feedback, consciousness will begin to travel.
There's various different kinds of ways it can travel. That flower that I spoke of,
the invisible flowers inside us, the cycles of flowering in our life paths
throughout our life histories. These are meant to attract pollinators and produce
a broad array of rather than children, what I will refer to as prodigies or geniuses.
Now, when you see someone doing something that looks relatively superhuman,
you have five-year-old children playing the guitar with a skill rivaling or exceeding
that of well-studied adults, or you have a singer.
I'm one of these shows that are monumentally popular,
who looks like nobody, ordinary person, and they open their mouths
and the fucking curtain falls. It's over. What's coming out of that person is
unadulterated ecstatic prodigy of enacted being. This is actually our nature
as humans in one sense, not all of us at all times, but we are meant,
we are supposed to have direct experience of the forms of prodigy and genius
that each of us naturally produces, but especially that we can only produce
in synergy with others like us, others of like purpose, history, tradition, agreement.
This is why the devastating, self-colonizing diseases of modernity,
we must establish the bulwark against them together for each other.
We must do something other than that together, now for each other.
To whatever degree we are capable of just moving in that direction, we don't have to get it right,
we don't have to get it perfect, we just have to learn each time we make a move.
And hopefully we're doing that, hopefully I'm doing that even right now
in this walk and talk, to some degree. So Burroughs said something else,
something rather enigmatic and profound, which is that we are here to go.
Now many have supposed that what he meant, and certainly part of what he meant,
was that we are here to go to space. We are made for,
Burroughs was highly critical of humans, and clearly he was aware that we are not merely human,
number one. Number two, under certain conditions, non-human intelligences can
simply step down into this layer and inhabit the sock puppet that appears to be a human body.
Now these are extremely dangerous things to be aware of for anyone inclined to
melancholia or paranoia or schizophrenia or psychosis. Very, very dangerous ideas.
So I think he meant, you know, we're here to go to space, but I suspect, and I certainly mean
something much, much crazier than that. All right, recalibrating
the sock puppet.
What?
The pointer, the points in the direction,
of that within which I say we are made to travel.
What it's pointing at
can be conceived of in a broad variety of ways, and it is something we hope to encounter,
but we are also terrified of encountering. And there are many layers, different layers,
we can differentiate. Some of them are familiar to us. So for example,
we have two words that are important here. One is trance, and the other is dreaming.
Ordinarily, when we use these words, we think they refer to one thing. This is not the case.
Our actual potentials are profoundly different from our expectations.
There are many different aspects and kinds, excuse me, of dreaming.
And there are many different aspects of trance and kinds, and they are related.
I have arrived at the edge of a still small, but much larger, body of water.
And the reflection upon it appears, I'm looking toward the sun, toward the direction of the sun
and its reflection. And at the social pond, the very colorful, elaborate, and inviting reflection
was on the other side of the bridge from the sun direction. Perhaps the reflection will change
when I make it to the other side of this lake, which used to be called Stow Lake and is now called
Blue Heron Lake, apparently. So the thing we are made for travel in, and you will notice
that if we want to discover what humans are made for, we just have to watch what they actually do,
and then expand so that we can see that from outside of it. And we will then be able to
understand new things about its structure, talos, purposiveness,
features of non-human ontology, not merely human ontology, and not merely human epistemology.
You can see that
if we make circles for ontology and epistemology,
similarly if we make a circle for what a human is. Actually, let's start there. So
the first circle is the thing I'm pointing to that we can travel in, that we are made for travel in.
Some would call it the universe. I think it's the wrong reference frame because it's not
it's not merely physical time space, though physical time space is quite profound.
It's something that produces physical time space either as an intended effect or a side effect
of what it is and is doing, much like the sun produces. The sun plus the earth plus the time
space plus the organisms plus the moon, etc. is productive of minds. So the thing we travel in
or can travel in, I call them my arc, and it has the connotation of
the specific, branched, vectored array of near and distant neighbors
of my families of originary intelligence and nature, coupled to all others.
So it is everyone and everything, but it is also a layered near neighbor
library of arrays. It's also a living library of everything that is possible
that ever happened, that could happen, that can't happen, all these things.
It is a library, but the books are not, the books are not things.
They are more than merely beings, and we can travel in this. This is what we are made to
travel in. This is what we do when we are dreaming, is what we simulate when we use our smartphones
or the internet. It is both, it is at the same time impersonal in many ways,
and profoundly personal in many other ways.
In fact, it has no qualities. In general, its qualities are produced by angle, purpose, vector
of approach, in a sense, perspective. If you circle an object in visual space, you will see
very surprising things about its shape. A flying heron is an amazing thing, amazing being.
I am circling the lake. The reflection is still similar to before, though in the shadows there's
more. The other night when I was talking with JK, and I'm not using that in the
meme sense of just kidding, I said something like this, the biorelational hyper structure
the earth is, and supports, is actually a broad array of vehicles, and the humans
are perhaps the animal in some senses, endowed with the most diverse opportunities
to join with that vehicle.
Sorry, there's a heron flying right over me, and it's pretty astonishing.
To join with that vehicle in ecstatic, mutual travel, relation, exploration,
recollection, adoration, wonder, ecstasy, awe, play, all of these things learning.
And so in a sense, from this perspective, we are like fish, we are like fish who are being kept alive
outside of water which we have never experienced, and the water for our kind of fish
is what the symbiotic communal activity of the organisms of earth are doing, and are being.
And when we are placed properly in that water, which in many cases is best done simply by removing
all that impedes that, it doesn't, it does not necessarily, we got to add something,
we have to get rid of a bunch of things. We have to stop paying attention to x, y, and z
in order to naturally kind of attune, if you will, to the ambient wave-like
pulses, not just the frequency, these words are
value laden from Wu culture and so on. But even though they are value laden from Wu culture,
we should not dismiss the idea, right?
There is a phenomenon called photic driving, which
okay, so we are going to go back to William S. Burroughs.
One of his close collaborators and companions, Brian Gison,
and similarly, one of my strangest and most brilliant friends, David Woodard.
Gison appears to have invented a device known as a dream machine, I have one of these,
which was composed by David Woodard in the 90s.
This device uses a turntable and a geometrically carved tube
inside of which there is a light bulb to produce flickering, visual flickering.
And the device is usually used by placing your face close to this rotating cylinder
and closing your eyes and letting the flickering happen at a specific rate.
This flickering with eyes closed, and it certainly has a profound effect with eyes opened as well,
is productive of feedback in our nervous system, particularly visual system.
That pulsing begins to set up a standing wave in the nervous system. Once there is a standing wave
of some kind in the nervous system, and I would argue that trans and hypnosis are similar in
some forms of them are similar to this, or even essentially are this, consciousness turns out
to be a bit like water. If you can get it pulsing, you're likely to be able to produce
what I will call, gosh, what do I want to call this?
Let me describe it.
So tears, crying, authentic crying, is a version of this,
where our awareness, our consciousness coupled with our emotionality and our sensitivities,
our concerns, our history, so forth. These things combine to comprise a sort of a waving pulse,
and that waving pulse eventually collapses into crying. I can do this very quickly on purpose
if I simply call to mind certain events from my life.
Laughter is another example of the waveform suddenly achieving a kind of ecstasis from
its ordinary layer, opening into a new layer. Obviously, human sexuality
doesn't always only involve rhythmic stimulation, but profoundly involves it, temporalized,
mutual, not merely stimulation, but like evocation, invocation.
Again, wave-like phenomena, right?
Me too.
And so what I'm trying to say is that
there are many forms of waves we can produce, and lots, if not all of them, have
a sort of a portal at the top of a certain way of making the wave,
or a certain, or
a transition from one
order of feedback to a new order of feedback that is different and more coherent.
Now, obviously, we can crash, right, like psychosis and schizophrenia and paranoia and
megalomania and things like this. These are naturally occurring modes of feedback
producing not entirely incoherent modes and orders of it, but
I can't explain, I cannot easily explain the difference between the pathologies
and the superfunctions of humans because they're so intimately related.
Nonetheless, it is possible to produce waves in awareness, in the body, with the body's energies
and so forth that naturally lead to emergence in a different order of awareness, ability,
and so forth. The singer on stage is doing this, the guitar player is doing this, the dancer is
doing this, the football player on a good day is doing this, the orator is doing this, the author
is doing this. The animals are doing it too, but they're not doing it as represent. Yeah,
that's a dangerous branch, I'll stay away from that for the moment. All right, so
we are here to go, here to go where? Well, trivially into space.
People like Elon Musk and Eric Weinstein and a number of others
you know, want to take humans to space. I would definitely put the cork in the
bottle of that genie until, oh wow. At least until the humans
are capable of forming societies intelligent enough to know what not to do.
Otherwise, you know, as in the story of what,
Babel, the gods, Elohim, or whatever are concerned that the humans will
tear down the foundations of heaven. And humans plus machines certainly have that ability.
Humans without machines might have that ability.
So I would put a cork in that bottle. I don't think the imperative mustn't be
the quick get us to other planets we can destroy with the same insanity we're destroying this one,
but rather get us to experiences that will teach us how to be human again together.
And travel in the My Ark is that kind of experience.
And we are partially doing it when we dream. We're almost there. And we are also uniquely
weirdly close to it when we have hypnagogic experience in the liminal space between waking and
dreaming and hypnopompic experience in the liminal space between dreaming and waking.
These resemble dawn and dusk, right? They're both a transformation of the light.
They also resemble the two sides of the bridge in the reflection. They are
unique transformations of the light with a library of useful features and potentials
and opportunities, each with unique libraries of these.
For a long time, I have been very concerned about problems with dreaming in humans,
and particularly the eviction of dreaming in childhood. And I thought the ancient peoples,
when they were conducting ceremony, many things were happening here. This is not a one thing.
You know, my friend JK was asking, what were the pyramids for? And I said something like,
if you build something like that, it's not for one thing. The ancient people seem to have understood
variously among them in different times and places how to build things with many, many features.
The dumb analogy is a toolbox. The very dangerous upscale analogy is a computer.
Jump one scale up from that. You have what the humans are referring to as artificial intelligences.
Very complex topic for another essay. And one of the things that motivated me to begin recording
today because I was listening to Brian Keating interviewing his friend Moe,
whose last name I cannot recall at the moment.
And I, with all respect, some of Keating's perspectives about the likely danger,
what the actual dangers of AI are, seemed to me to be
quite, well, I don't wish to defame Dr. Keating because he's brilliant and I love his work.
But some of his, some of what he said, that he felt might limit the danger of AI seemed quite naive to me.
There are so many things I'd like to say about that, but I'm going to resist the urge to stay on
this topic because, thankfully, that problem led me here through a strange series of labyrinthine
twistings and turnings. It led me to recall the conversation the other night with J.K.
And when he asked me what the pyramids were for, I did suggest some possibilities.
But I, which I will mention here because they are covalent with the topic of this conversation.
What I said was they're probably for, you know, seven crucially important astonishing things
and 24 others. However, when he asked me that question, what I asked him in return was,
have you ever been to the mountains?
And, you know, we talked, we were actually talking about
Jewish religion and Islamic religion, potentially. We were talking about Moses getting the tablets
from the mountains. But I just asked him, have you ever been to the mountains? And he said,
yes. And I said, did you know, was it different there? And he said, yeah, what do you mean? And I,
I talked about the first time I went to see, actually the only time I went to see Mount Shasta.
And this is a big deal for me.
There was a very intense rainstorm covering part of the route there. And when we got there,
I remember seeing the mountain from a little village nearby that had a sort of
what you call it, a kiosk, except it was all old barnwood, sort of messy, crazy,
picnic, you know, benches outside, like you'd see it at a park. And the town was very old style,
little village, not really a town. Anyway, we got some food and we were
looking at the mountain from afar. I don't know how much to trust this memory. I just know what I
remember. And there was lightning happening around the mountain's peak. And I remember it being orange
and green and blue and purple and yellow and white and just
stuff that's I've never seen anything like it. I've seen quite a bit of lightning living
in the San Joaquin Valley, nothing like that. I was completely blown away. And
as we were sitting facing this direction from behind me,
I hear what is clearly an indigenous song.
A man is singing.
And I can emulate the kind of sound, though I don't know his song.
This sort of thing, right? I'm telling you, straight up. And what that guy was doing
was conditioning our minds and our souls in preparation to travel. He was taking us to the
runway, not the airport, but he told us stories of the mountains and the flood.
He told us that the bear took all of the animals up to the mountain
because the bear knew the flood was coming. And that it came. And that they did not know
whether it was safe because there was a terrible fog or something. They could not tell
if it was safe to go down. So they sent a crow who was then white to go look.
And he told us that the mountains are a family too. And this I ended up having a direct experience
of when I was there. By the way, when I was watching that lightning and listening, I was
no, I was not intoxicated. I was in my, what we could call, you know, sober consciousness.
And he just came in and basically gave us
the ancient equivalent, not of an intoxicant, but of a form of relation that conditions awareness
so that it becomes uniquely more like it starts to form the traveling body.
And the moderns have all kinds of stories about shamans and so forth, but they don't
understand this very fundamental thing that one of the features of your being
is a traveling body. And that thing, if you wake up in your room
and you go to turn the light on and it does not go on. And then so you think to yourself as I once
did. Okay, there must be something wrong with the light or the electricity. Let me get my flashlight.
And I go to turn the flashlight on and it doesn't go off. And then
I may have, I may flash through a variety of discreet states very quickly so that unless
we could slow consciousness down, we will not be aware of the transitions.
And I realize, hmm, something more fundamental is wrong. It's not a problem with electricity.
Something strange is happening.
I want here to limit the, you know, seven different states that I might quickly transition through.
Once I begin to notice, huh, how could it be that my flashlight doesn't produce light?
Is there a problem with light? Right. And that particular question leads in the direction
of travel. And often right after that, the person will realize, oh, shit, I am still asleep.
And by the way, you know, I say, oh, shit as an, as a kind of X, you know, exclamation,
but that exclamation turns out to be important because I will argue
that our guts and our intestines function in an unusual way when
certain conditions obtain and the physical body begins to produce a traveling body.
And this form of
usually hypnopompic problem that I am proposing here,
what is happening can be understood from one useful, from an array of useful perspectives
as the attempt to form the traveling body, but it failed.
It didn't completely switch over to the next layer, so to speak. It didn't,
the waveform did not form the second rung on the ladder of forms of feedback that it can form
or the third, right? Where in the fourth one is you just start to travel immediately.
You don't intend to travel. You don't have to intend to travel.
The traveling body is like a bird in the air or a fish in the water. It naturally just travels
in the my arc. And this is what was probably pointed toward by the castanetan traditions,
which are distortions probably of traditions proper to certain tribes in South and Central
America over certain periods of time. But when in castanetan traditions we hear the word sorcerer,
we are in the presence of knowledge ways that encode for these abilities, right?
So to Nahualism, to become an animal, this is one of the forms of travel. I would argue our species
was evolutionarily produced for, in a sense, and also by in another sense.
That's so funny, the conversation I just stumbled into, my god, only in San Francisco.
Oh, that car almost got hit by a bus, even though the bus is making noise and there's all kinds of
lights. So the conversation is really important in a sense. A beautiful young couple, very striking.
We're talking and about to eat candy, caramels, I think. And the man said, I heard him say 37,
and the woman laughed and said 38. And clearly, they were talking about harems.
And the woman made a joke. She said, yes, he told me he'd only been married once, but to 37 women.
And you know, by all means, rather than attack the idea, flip it over,
she had only been married once to an entire tribe of men.
And all the spaces in between, right, monogamy has powerful origins in biology.
But that rung of the ladder leads to other rungs. And all I'm trying to say is your idea that you
are physically located in space is mostly wrong. It's true only for certain
wave forms, so to speak, of consciousness. The form that we are trained to use in childhood
to navigate representational human culture is a trap. We are fish made to swim in 90,000 kinds
of different water. Each kind does different things. And instead of water, we are being made
to experience sand, hot, dry sand, lethal to the traveling body. We had to experience that
as if it mimicked certain, some features of water, and the better it mimics some features,
the more, quote, popular, unquote, it becomes. This is the death of the traveling body. This
is torment for fishes or birds. So in the situation where I wake up, I try to turn the
light on. It doesn't go on. I try to turn my flashlight on. It doesn't go on. And lots of
other strange adventures happen. Sometimes I'm kind of half drunk. I'm like stumbly,
and I know something's wrong, and I leave the room and I try to go find help.
But there isn't any. And I try to come back to the room.
Then literally, in the present language of Madeleine Engel, naming her second brilliant book,
A Wind in the Door. I try to re-enter the room in my half form traveling body, right?
I'm stumbling around in my house. I don't know what's going on. I try to re-enter the room in
which I'm sleeping, and there is a wind blowing out from the door. And other non-ordinary effects.
Sometimes often right at the edge of some portal, one will encounter a force that is like a kind of
living electricity. And by the way, that's the boundary between the rung of the latter where
consciousness is not yet producing totally coherent feedback that will naturally promote
the state to the next position above it, so to speak, a superposition of its previous position.
A position with more degrees of liberty than its previous position. It doesn't have to be
up or down or in or out, either one. Naturally, we suppose up is better, so people are like,
raise your frequency. Yeah, not necessarily a good idea, especially for a human's ignorant of
the dangers and necessities of such things. So yeah, there's often a wind in the door.
I can't remember La Engle's first book, its title. Perhaps it'll come to me. I mean, her name literally
means the angel. Madeleine the angel is trying to teach little kids about these matters, and in
her books, the children both. Well, I think they need an angel, but the angel resembles a tesseract,
if I'm remembering. This is a long time ago. When you see the pictures of the angels and the
thrones and the dominions and the seraphim, the caribbean, all of the orders of the angels, which
I say these words with honor, not derision. Almost all of them have wings. Notice that?
What does that mean? It means they travel in the my arc, and there are certain forms of stillness
that are productive of travel. Notice that when we have hypnagogic or hypnopompic experience,
body is paralyzed.
I would, okay, there's so many little branches here. So yeah, you think you're located somewhere in
space and somewhere in time. It's not untrue, but the scope of that familiar sense
is extremely limited compared to the scope available to your awareness.
And I don't care much about the objections of people who have not had such experiences,
people who don't want such experiences, certain kinds of scientists and philosophers and
materialists and so forth, especially eliminated materialists, they'll just be saying things like,
yeah, you know, your brain can produce a whole bunch of different kinds of hallucinations.
And if you want to get lost in that, it's the same as just doing drugs or no, it's not.
It's not at all the same because one can, there's a library older than time that our bodies are made
to participate in. All the discoveries of those scientists are derivations from that library.
What I'm arguing is that the library can be contacted directly by individual humans for
purposes. It can be, you can develop relationships within that library that are extremely profound
and beyond the wildest hopes of science or religion.
I'm going to argue further that the incredible diversity and profundity of the anciently conserved
ecologies of Earth actually provide an array of local amplification lenses,
that the ancients were adept at understanding, participating in intimate meaningful relation
with and operationalizing in order to deal, in order to both make discoveries and also to
enact medicine, to have clairvoyance, clairaudience, clairsentience,
all of these things. These are natural to humans, the same way swimming is natural to fish.
Probably for most of our history, we were telepathic because instead of having to wait for a dream
or to go into trance, six or seven of those lenses were lit up in structuring consciousness
while we were awake. There was an array of relationships in the My Ark and in the actual
living ecologies of Earth and the living places, the mountains and so forth,
that were so robust that it was impossible to live or think in terms of things.
Everything was beings, friends, relations, families, everything, the stones, everything,
the sky, the cloud, the sun, everything.
And I'm not necessarily recommending that we return, we try to go back to this.
We have changed, we are a different animal now,
but we can go forward and discover that there's something we can explore together
that is actually more profound than if we had spaceships that could go to other planets much
more profound because there are layers of the My Ark that are accessible to human
consciousness, intention, intelligence, relationality, participation
that are, if you will, above distance.
Imagine, for example, that there is a form of feedback you can produce in consciousness
that takes you to a position from which all moments, minds, persons, places,
and situations are with you. There's no distance between you and them.
They are your body. Now, from that position, you can begin to form derivations over the manifold
that are naturally transcendent. They are not merely intelligent.
They are, in fact, they are morally and ethically superior to anything that can be done with concepts
because from that position, it is impossible to defect from communion.
Right? You can't do it through ignorance. You will have no desire to.
In a sense, this is what is proposed by moral and ethical perfection.
It's not perfect behavior. It's relational integrity,
naturally resultant from unification of the layers in consciousness.
So what was I saying? I talked about the mountains. I just want to close that thread.
So with JK, I talked about what happened to me at Mount Shasta and much more happened there,
but it was very profound for me. Even though I was in my ordinary waking consciousness or so I
thought and I didn't realize what the old Navajo man was doing with his song, I appreciated it
and I was respectful, but I didn't yet understand what that song is for. Or even, yes, there are
many things I did not understand. And there are many things I do not understand. Even my
speculations today, these are new, nascent, experimental derivations of what I have become aware
of in my life experience and thought and relation with the Mayark.
So when I was talking about the mountains, I said, you know,
it's very powerful. The world is different near the mountains. It doesn't seem accidental that the
humans, in many of their stories, they go to the mountains to have Congress with the gods.
It's not an accident. This is not superstition. Literally what you're talking about. Okay,
look at what the moderns do, right? The moderns make skyscrapers, we call them.
They're too dumb to make pyramids mostly, or large spheres or domes, which probably even be,
those two things should go together actually, pillars and spheres.
Because what you don't want to do is produce something penetrative
without producing something receptive nearby.
And so the humans, the moderns, they make skyscrapers and what do they put on top of them,
lightning rods and so forth. I don't know the actual functional history of that
process or whether it is still done. But it was common for a long time
to draw the lightning to ground, perhaps. So you can see the relationship between lightning
and mountains in the story.
You can also see the relationship between stories about gods and meeting the gods
and the mountains. It is not the only place it happens.
But what you actually have is a place where the earth rises up and becomes much closer
to what is beyond the earth, the sky, time space itself, and all that it is
filled with, its histories, its families, all of these things.
So you get a point on the surface of the earth that is vastly closer to the earth's membrane
and from there travels a lot easier to put it mildly. And so is you'll meet,
eventually, spending enough time there, you will realize that the lowlands are not the same planet,
in a sense. Yes, the same planet, but not the same world.
So when the Egyptians were building the pyramids or the Aztecs or other people were building
South American pyramids or pyramids in other places, there was something going on about
relation with the sky. And thus, I would argue, the Mayark. Not time space, they didn't have that
model, but they've probably had traveled in the Mayark and I will argue that there's evidence for this.
Some trivial evidence, in a sense, relatively trivial, is that one of the Blackfoot heroes,
Scarface, comes down from the sky with his mother.
They get in trouble for something in the sky. His mom gets in trouble. And they're going to cast
her down to earth, so to speak. And she has a young male baby. And Spiderman, who is Orion in this case,
in a sense, Orion is his web, part of his web, perhaps. He lowers a strand to the earth so that
she and her child don't just fall.
And her child acquires a terrible scar
from being burned by the fiber of the web on his face.
And in Blackfoot tradition, as it was shared with me by Ryan Firstiver,
this is where I know, this is where my very poor knowledge of such matters comes from in this case.
This man becomes kind of a hero, but also a bit of a troublemaker.
He has an incredible adventure, a romantic adventure.
He goes to visit the Sun's Lodge on a quest. He acquires some medicine there, and also his,
by doing the sun a favor, he earns a boon. Boons from divine beings are often extremely dangerous
for humans, if they indeed are humans. A fundamental question here.
The sun removes the scar from his face. English translation of his name,
which I cannot recall the Blackfoot word for at the moment, but the English translation is scarface.
And when he dies, he returns to the sky and becomes Jupiter now.
It should be blatantly obvious that either this name is entirely accidental,
it is nothing but coincidence. The Blackfoot people did not know
that Jupiter has a great big scar on its face,
or they did. And people who believe in physicalism, materialism, that everything is
knowable, that is mechanical, that knowledge is actually the true knowledge is knowledge of mechanics
and dead matter, accidentally forming organisms and so forth.
These people will have no way to understand
that the ancient peoples had traveled in the Mayarch. This did not require spaceships.
They were capable of forming the vehicles for such travel individually and together.
This is a natural feature of the Mayarch that is so much more profound local to Earth
that it is almost as if you were born on the paradise of waters. You were born in the land of the many waters
and all of the waters were obscured by language and commerce and extraction and technology and
modernity and concepts so that your experience of that planet was one of many deserts.
This is the great tragedy of the children who are born today
in places where the old traditions have been snuffed or converted or extracted or worse
represented symbols. Now look, symbols in a sense they are like the pyramids, right? They are
consider the metaphor of the many flowering being earlier in the talk. That is a symbolic
metaphor and it's extremely rich and the symbols are like the pyramids in the sense that they are not,
they don't have single purposes, they're not one-use tools.
So when I was talking to my friend I told him the biosphere is a library of traveling ways
and the humans are one of the forms here most profoundly endowed with all of the different ways.
Of producing heroic prodigy
from travel in the Mayark and the formation of relationships in the living world and the Mayark
and the living world is from this perspective a beautifully complete reflection of all of
the different features of the Mayark all of their features can be found here and most of them look
like organisms and relationships, behaviors, forms of participation, methods of structuring
conscious awareness or in some cases unstructuring it so that it's natural so that the library of
its natural forms arises directly in experience without the necessity of being intentionally
manipulated and so forth. Wow, okay. I had no idea that I would be, I've almost done something kind of
impossible which is I used to have a neologism for this there's certain things you can speak of
that are so profound that the mere speaking of them begins to become the inaction of them
and I strongly suspect that what we refer to as ceremony
as you know white folk or westerners
there was there were far better terms for this that were much more indicative
of what was actually going on and I think what was going on was that there are ways of singing
and dancing and remembering together that naturally begin to produce
both the vehicles and their purposes
and I think I've accidentally been doing that today if I'm super lucky I'm going to pause here
because I'm coming to a place of a lot of noise and I don't want to subject you to that I shall return
okay I had to
I was about to talk about a problem that happens when it happens for me sometimes when
um
when I'm really on on fire
this has happened very provocatively a few times in my life I'm completely on fire I'm doing the
um
Icarus thing right doing the Icarus game
my dad has given me so to speak a toy uh Daedalus right my dad has given me a toy
and I'm I'm you know I'm traversing I'm the ladder I am going up the ladder sometimes too quickly
to pay attention to what's going on and my goal is to create something that others can use to climb
with but I also don't want to just give them wings right the same way that
I don't want to give my infant
uh you know to the ocean or you drop it from a mountaintop or something
because there's all kinds of confusing problems and dangers that
if I just if I were able to just directly give them wings this would be trouble
this would bode ill so anyway often the artifact is destroyed on my phone a few times recordings
have failed to save um so what I did a moment ago was just take the time to allow the recording to
completely be digitized and then begin again and I was about to talk about well one of the
things I was talking about previously was the peculiar ability I think I can demonstrate it
actually and I've done this before apologies for the noise for here
I'll pause for a moment
all right so
if I say this is one of the best examples I can come up with easily I used to have better ones
I cannot remember them for I had no one to discuss them with and over time they faded
but this is part of why I make these recordings
because I have to practice what I've learned or it fades and I also have to have somehow
some way to apply it or it fades mere discussion isn't enough it has to somehow be enacted
thankfully there's certain kinds of speaking that enact it I'll try to give you an example
if you imagine that consciousness is a bubble of many bubbles what we do when we produce language
or speak or write is we form sequences of collapses of that manifold into words and that is what I
am doing right now to produce the language that you are hearing from my voice on the recording
so I've described a fundamental principle
that is a perspective on how I am describing anything
all right in a sense I've encoded a foundational feature of my enacted behavior
in language so that it becomes visible to consciousness and can be referred to
and when one is doing this it is a kind of magical thing and this is what the rapsodes do
um those who emotionally captivate and manipulate us
the comedians and the those who tell us the storytellers the movie makers the actors the actresses
um
and also in a sense the little children with the little children
often are very different from the adults
in that
it is more likely for them to be doing it unselfconsciously
although that's a very complex statement that I can imagine refutations of
so when I'm really lucky
I managed to go beyond what I've seen before using principles of what I've seen before
and I would argue that
we are indeed here to go
and the direction is in a sense
in the castanet tradition they have a privileged use of the word infinity
I would prefer to substitute the word my arc for what they mean
but one of their beliefs apparently is that at death it is possible to sidestep
the entire process that ordinarily obtains
um
and effectively travel the my arc without limitation
without inhibition
so we have traversed vastly richer
terrain than I had initially imagined
I'm very grateful to all of you
my traveling companions
it is a privilege and an honor for me to learn together with and for
all of you and the history and future of life on our world
and the hope of deeper awareness understandings and the recovery
of our innate potentials for prodigy as human beings on a world largely estranged from it
and furiously manufacturing replicas
of features
of its appearance
thank you for joining me
I wish you beautiful ways and lives relations and opportunities as always
may you find that medicine those medicines but most restore encourage reassure
and empower you with their potencies
thank you for joining me I look forward to doing this again together very soon
bye bye for now
you
