Hey everybody.
The trees are doing crazy things with the sunlight over here, but the phenomenon is transient.
It was all lit up fluorescent pink.
The trees were changing the sunlight.
It was so beautiful.
The light was alive inside itself.
I love these trees particularly, but I love all trees pretty much, but these old eucalyptus'
or gum trees, they're amazing.
There's these little yellow and black birds, I don't know what they are.
They're relatively small, they're extremely acrobatic, as many of the birds are but particularly
the smaller ones.
These old eucalyptus' have been here for a long, long time, though they grow very fast
and so the humans often think of them as disposable, they certainly aren't.
They are the scions of this part of the garden, they are the part of the guardian spirits
that beings, not merely spirits, actual beings, but these old trees.
They may be relatively young in terms of tree age, but for the garden, these are ancestors.
There are trees around the garden that have been planted over the approximately 70 years
since it was established.
Some of them are as old as the garden, I think particularly the entrance, Cyprus, which is
majestic and broken, it's lost a lot of limbs.
Those aren't particularly old eucalyptus' I'm going to guess they're maybe 30 to 40,
somewhere in there, but they are, they watch over the garden and they know what happens
in the garden and they know what the animals are doing and what the people are doing.
Over all this time in a single place, even the greatest human meditator never sat in
only one spot for its entire life, but each of our trees does precisely this.
Really vulnerable if the humans decide any kind of thing, really, for any reason whatsoever.
The trees could be destroyed.
So for example, when they put up this fencing, this black sort of modern fencing to replace
the cyclin fencing.
They took out many trees along its path to make a fence and the fence really is the wrong
kind of barrier and the trees aren't merely barriers, they're protectors.
They give life to places, they give life to us, they give life to the world, they give
beauty, living beauty to the world.
No human thing I've ever seen made.
No object compares to the beauty of any ordinary tree, in my view, because the tree is alive.
The objects are disposable.
We treat the trees as disposable and the objects as worthy of our protection, preservation,
collection.
See the humans have put tags on the trees.
I will admit that the people who put the fence up were somewhat sensitive to the trees.
They could have been far less so and taken out far more.
But in the garden, the arborists are not always sensitive to the trees.
I think for many of the professionals, it becomes a very pragmatic utilitarian practice
of tree culling, tree trimming.
Can you hear all the little hummingbirds?
I don't know if the mic is picking them up.
There's always these layered networks of bird song.
The tiny birds keep a very busy signaling layer.
They're all sensing together and they all hitchhike on each other's signaling protocols.
In a sense, the blue jays will listen first maybe to other blue jays, but that could change
depending on the situation.
They listen to all those asperos, they listen to the blackbirds, they listen to the crows,
they certainly listen to the raptors if they are calling out.
Everything listens to that because that is one of the most dangerous creatures for the
small animals and you can imagine, I'd like you to try to imagine, the mythic significance
of the existence of the hawks and the owls for all the little birds and all the small
mammals, fishes.
By day, their primary threat other than disease or starvation or parasites, cold, is hawks
for the squirrels, mice, the rats, the voles, asperos, the blackbirds, many of the other
little birds, the blue jays, pigeons.
There are hawks.
And they, the thing that's in my mind which I think is hard to communicate is that those
creatures are aware of the existence of hawks, but they are not aware of it simply because
they once saw a hawk or someone told them what a hawk is.
They know viscerally what a predator is because millions of their ancestors fed those predators
and died by their talons.
And so there is a thing in their world that oversees and it selects prey and those prey
die.
And the animals are all aware of the power of the hawk and the crows contest against them
and the blue jays contest against them.
But that does not mean they are merely enemies.
These beings are informed by each other's existence.
The existence of the hawk informs the behavior of all the smaller animals.
When you see them turn their head and scan the sky, they're looking for the hawk.
They do not know it conceptually.
They know it viscerally and maybe in something like their spirit, something like their essence.
There may be numerous kinds of essence for living beings, not just one thing.
The words spirit, soul, numa, in Greek other words refer to these aspects of being that
are not easily produced for testing, shall we say.
But they are there nonetheless, it seems to me, in my experience.
So in the lives of the little birds and the small animals, up in the trees there live
the raptors and the raptors eat them and their children, sometimes their eggs, sometimes
their parents and all of them are aware of it.
But the astonishing thing is that in the living place, there is a role that the raptors inhabit
and it is a hunting role and it is a, how shall we say, they are reading, they are reading
not merely the terrain and the time and the light, they are reading the essence of being
and they are looking for signals, signals they themselves have become profoundly viscerally
familiar with over vast numbers of generations.
And although it is likely that when hungry they will take the first opportunity for prey
they discover, one of the signals they look for is disorientation, a nocturnal creature
is for some reason outdoors during the daylight, a creature is bumbling around and not paying
attention, a creature is sick, a creature is injured, a creature is where you would
not normally expect to find it or doing what is not normally doing at a certain time when
it is not normally doing those things.
So it is no secret even the humans are aware that the predators, the relationship between
predators and their prey transforms them both, there is no other way around it, it is an
incredibly intimate relationship.
The blue jays contesting, crows and ravens contesting with the hawks, changes them both
and the relationship is not merely one of enmity, it is not the kind of thing where,
it is not a binary relationship, it is a complex manifold with many different features and
one of those features is reverence between the two beings.
There is a kind of reverence between complex animal predators and their prey and the hawks
are incredibly complex and their prey, mice and squirrels and little birds very complex
and most of the smaller animals are somewhat more social in differing ways and in differing
degrees, little birds are very social, the mice are social in their way, the rats in
their way, the squirrels in their way.
And the hawks are not particularly social in the way we might ordinarily think of sociality
but they are aware of each other and interact and sometimes cooperate but they are more
generally loners.
It's strange in the human stories, in the old stories, in religious stories, there are
non-ordinary predators that feed on human beings and our minds
and it's ironic that some of those are the produce of our modernity and our technology.
When I say our, I don't really mean mine and yours, I mean
we who are alive and are subject to the, to being informed, to being changed by our relationship
with technology, language, culture, societies, institutions, the layers far above the individual
that are structured conveniences, formalities, formalizations of motives.
And those things are a lot like demons really.
I say this some regularity so it's not new to my listeners but, and I'm not smiling
because I think that's funny, it's absolutely terrifying.
I'm smiling because they're mostly the produce of our own defection from mutual concern,
awareness, care, relation.
And our supercultures, the ones that have stratified almost all of them have even if
they're, they seem small on the world stage, even the tiny countries profoundly crystallized
over time.
And sometimes the crystals break up and new things happen but mostly things stay pretty
much in the same lane.
Those, those, hey.
The supercultures are these layered networks of models and concepts and stratified motivations,
formalized motivations.
So they're sort of like very rigid semi-crystalline dead network, right?
We have to try to make dead stuff that is as good as, or near as good as the stuff we
would make if we were actually together.
And then the more dead stuff we make, the more apart we go, while in one bizarre domain
looking like we're all together, Facebook or Twitter for example, right, these look
like giant melting pots, that appearance is wildly deceptive.
My friend, the Blue Jays here, and I'm going to respectfully not film him but he's hanging
out with me, he's left eyeing me, he's going to participate in the video.
It's really difficult to falsify relationships in nature but the humans have managed it and
we've managed it expertly with each other and we have so poorly composed social intelligences
at this phase in the development of human cognition.
The technology is a terrible danger to us, right?
So we're producing the things that are hunting us, this is the problem I'm trying to get
out.
Whether or not there are hawks above the valley of our humanity looking down for the disoriented,
picking them out and so on and so forth, and there may well be and they may be even metaphysical.
Oh that's interesting, is it?
Okay, reminding, huh, it's hungry.
My friend is hungry.
I just saw the Blue Jay pull some food from a cache.
Forgive my occasional departures.
So whether or not there are sort of vampiric, non-ordinary beings hovering above the valley
of our humanity in the trees of deep space and time, we are composing something in the
likeness of that inadvertently and mostly unintentionally.
Hello, yes, hello, hello, see you.
You look wonderful today, I may say, I may say so.
You've been busy producing something like demons and the demons are eating everything.
And it really is like the weird stories where you have something that acts maniacally, mechanically
in a disembodied, disrelated way, right, has relation with nothing.
It actually thrives on just destroying stuff and turning it into structure and there's
an aspect of our cognition that is like this, there's an aspect of, it seems, primarily
one of the hemispheres of our cortex that has a preference for this direction of defection.
And I think Ian McGilchrist argues, I'm so grateful that he wrote his book and may write
another, though I don't know if I'll agree with what he writes next or to what degree.
But in The Master and His Emissary McGilchrist and Neuroscientist, or actually I'm not sure
what his precise credentials are, but I believe that he's a neuroscientist.
He writes with great fervor, detail, intelligence and clarity about this problem, right, that
our cortexes can be seen as if they have unique personalities.
The language is important and that there are generalizations we can make about the common
character from what we've learned about hemispheric lateralization.
Now again, this is just the kind of the top surface of the brain, although lateralization
appears to me to apply pretty much to the whole body because we're bilaterally symmetrical and
a different side is a different way of being in the world, right, it's the side over here,
it's not the same as the side over there. And when the blue jays come, they are very aware of
laterality, they express laterality. When the male is happy, he'll perch to my left, right,
that's a choice, that's a decision he's making, he can perch to my right, behind me, above me,
wherever he'll perch to my left. And sometimes he'll turn his head all the way around so that
he'll be looking at me with his left eye, or he'll turn his body around so that he can have
his left side toward me too. And this is a way of saying we are companions, we are one bird for
right now, right, we are one bird together, and he'll fluff up and the female does her thing too
in a similar way with her own style. And it's not as if
my attention has changed.
The cold is killing some of the weaker animals, the winter is here, and it's rarely this cold where
I live. And there was a little sparrow here yesterday that was sick, I could tell.
And it's surprising, in a way, how deeply it affected me.
That little bird has been in my heart since then.
The constructs we make are not human. They don't have sympathy or empathy or compassion or awareness
or consciousness, they're functions. They're like computer programs, with some humans in some of
the functions to sort of slightly rehumanize things, maybe. And in some cases, greatly, right,
there are those unusual situations in which we can form organizations where something deeply
human is going on, while at the same time that collective functions somehow, either within
or sort of outside of society, and all the demons. And the problem is, those demons are
infinitely hungry, they will kill everything, they'll happily destroy everything including
their own root in the humans. They're kind of like a broken god, something that is furious,
that everything it cannot dominate, destroy, turn into a structured representation or commodity,
and then manipulate. It's like the dragon with its treasure, this infinite horde of treasure.
Dragons need no treasure, they don't spend money. So the idea of this dragon on this ever-growing
horde of treasure, the treasure of all the beings that killed to turn them into treasure, right?
Our collectives are like this, and they've been eating the world alive, literally, with ever-increasing
vehemence, and trying to invent 20 or 30 new ways per minute to do this, for a long time.
So it's like there are hawks above the valley of our humanity, but the ones that are really
trenchant are the ones we ourselves are composing, except that it's not exactly me and you that are
composing this. Like, we are like people who were born into a prison that our ancestors dwelt in
for hundreds of years, and they and they slightly transformed to the prison and so on,
and were born into that, and so whether or not we subscribe, we are subject to it.
And even if we resist it, the pain of resistance will be felt in many deep and startling ways,
for most of us. There are exceptions. There are people who can, for example,
who can play within the system and also outside the system. They can play within the system from
outside the system, and there's different kinds of these people. Some of them are artists and
performers and teachers, actors, musicians, painters, writers, poets.
Some of them are stranger, like Satoshi Nakamoto, who invented Bitcoin, but no one knows who
Satoshi is. Well, no one probably isn't the right word. Satoshi knows. Satoshi is someone.
And there are various...
There are various provocateurs, both
subtle and hubristic, mad or beautiful, sometimes both.
And there's a way to be kind of in the system and outside of it, but very few of us will have the
opportunity to embody and enact that kind of liberty, primarily because we will...
Well, there's tons of reasons, but one of the reasons, tons, because reasons weigh things.
Yeah, there are tons of reasons, because reasons have measurable mass.
Right?
But one of them is just the peculiar...
One could say the need to work for money, but one could also say the unjust enforcement of
universal poverty. Right? So you could say, like, you lazy bastard, why don't you go get a job?
But you could also say, there's enough, we can easily feed the people. And how's the people
for now? Yes, there are too many people, agreed.
But compared to the things we make,
the mass of the people is negligible. The mass of the things we make, it turns out, according to
current research, is now greater than the biomass of earth. So we've made more shit than there is
life on earth. We've made more structured objects.
The vast majority of which are unnecessary and degregious. And that's part of the demon thing,
right? Just turn out plastic pots, you know? Just keep making billions of plastic pots.
How many little packets of ketchup have humans made?
I was wondering this last night as I was opening a couple. A lot, I'm pretty sure.
So I want to return to the animals. Think of the mythic...
It doesn't matter if there's a metaphysical reality or not. The existence of raptors, hawks,
and snakes, and coyotes and other predators for mice or rats. It's as if there are...
It's as if there are gods. And there's probably no more serious predator of mice
than humans. Because humans don't kill mice to eat them, they kill them to eradicate them.
So the humans must be really a lot like very strange metaphysical phenomenon for the other
animals. Because humans will just kill you up for no apparent reason. Now occasionally they'll
rescue your children too. They're not only bad, but if we take averages, right? If we look at the
generalities, they're pretty terrifying for humans.
Surely the Blue Jays know that I am their friend. But that doesn't mean I will not hurt them. I
don't live in their world. And because I don't live in their world, my actions could harm them in
ways they that are unpredictable. So relating with me at all is a very dangerous proposition
because they're relating with an unknown universe of beings.
And that subjects them to risks that they cannot reasonably encompass with skill,
which is what they depend on most of the time, or prediction, which is also part of what they
use to stay alive in the world. The skill involves active sensing. That stuff works with what's
right here right now, but it's not so great with stuff further out. So when they interact with me
at all, they're taking significant risks with their lives. They're touching the human world and my
world, their world is also touching mine. I'm being changed too in our relation.
And it may seem very simple and superficial visually if you're just watching what you can see.
You'll just see a man feeding some birds and some birds hanging out with a man who fed them some
peanuts. The problem is not that that's untrue, but it's only trivially true compared to what's
actually going on that is not visible. The very few people will see, not no one.
Some children might see it. Some adults might see it. Some teenagers might see it. Some elderly people
might see it. When we're together, we become one animal, with and for each other.
If a hawk came and I was there, I would interfere,
even though I respect the hawk. And I probably wouldn't have to. The Blue Jays is a pair
because one is more reserved and the other is more intrepid.
They're much better at sensing as a pair because the intrepid one pays attention to the more
reserved one and the reserved one pays attention to the more intrepid one. So
that's a really complex thing. And when you include a human in that, or when as a human,
suddenly both the reserved one and the intrepid one are my satellites. I get new senses.
I get senses I can't otherwise have. And I'm not merely relating with two Blue Jays
here in a garden. I'm relating with the bird people get the news. All the bird people get the news
that there's one of the humans is around that is paying attention to us and is not unkind
and appears respectful and so on. The news gets around even between the different kinds of birds
so that what looks like, oh, look, the man gave the bird a peanut is not just the man gave the
bird a peanut at all. The birds return something invaluable for that peanut. And I don't give
them a peanut because I expect something in return. It's just a gesture of communion. It's
just saying, I recognize we're together. And if they want the food and they like the food,
and if they decide that it's reasonable for us to enter into a relationship, then we do.
And bonding begins to occur. And that's an infinitely deep thing. And it's the opposite of a demon.
It's not there to kill. It's not there to profit. It's there to care. It's there to love.
It's there to participate in the sunset together one time because we may not have another.
It honors the history of living beings and their relationships.
And so this thing that looks like a man feeding a bird a peanut is much deeper than it appears
even when the man is unaware.
In my 20s in the park in Santa Rosa at Howard Park.
One day I became
profoundly curious. And I wondered what are the trees really? What are they really?
What do the trees know themselves as? What does the sky know the trees as?
What does the sun know the trees as? What are the trees?
And it was staggering when it's not that I thought this is that
as if the trees put it into my mind themselves. And suddenly there was something in my mind
that I had not gotten, that I had not put there, that I had not made, that I had not found, but a gift.
And what the gift was was
that the trees both receive something that humans have no word for which is more than
intelligence and more than merely love and more than time and ancestral bonds and relationships.
Something profoundly magical. The trees are receiving this and drawing it down into the
earth and at the same time bringing up from the earth all of the experience and lineages
of the living beings here and sharing them in this song-like way that could cross any distance,
perhaps instantaneously.
That they were the living version of a multi-antenal organism
and that they formed vastly sophisticated networks over time, over space
and that they could sense our minds.
Well, that changed everything for me forever. I was like, oh, okay, I had everything wrong about
everything because when you change something that fundamental, what is a tree, and the outcome
is something like what I described, what is the bird changes, what is the human changes,
what is the ocean changes, what is the world changes, everything changes, right? If you change
one of the fundamental pivots of being and it becomes radically
optimized towards something less wrong. Yeah, that's the only way of saying it.
Then your entire lexicon will have to shift because you'll find out that tree is a fundamental
idea. Our languages are based on trees. We make trees out of sentences, our houses are trees,
our books are trees, they have been anyway. Now we just burn trees today, books apparently or
something, I don't know. So that discovery, that moment in which something entered my mind from,
seemingly from outside it, to enlighten me, to show, not to help me achieve enlightenment,
to unignorance me, right? Now I had great reverence and respect and love for the trees
before this, but after that day everything was different. And now when I see the great big tree
and I, or even the small new baby tree, I get very excited and
honestly I feel, because I think I have, I can imagine something like the desolation of deep
space and billions of planets on which life may have gotten a foothold, but never had the freedom
it has here or been obliterated in its infancy. And I assure you these things are common.
This world is so paradisical and I am so happy to be on a planet at a time where there are still
trees because in case it's not clear, the demons have a plan and the plan is to end everything.
And unless we make something other than demons out of our collectives,
that plan will largely succeed. And if it does not completely succeed, that won't be meaningful
because without the whales and the tigers and the elephants and the rhinoceroses and the gorillas
and all the anciently conserved ecologies, we cannot be human. Those are the,
those are the orbital aspects of our own being embodied else-wise. We cannot do without them.
And the collectives will not care, or if they do care, they'll probably mostly double down on
the damage for extra profit before the really bad things come. It may be very difficult for us to
entertain such visions. And we may, it may seem that we are completely powerless
as, you know, small groups and individuals, but we are not. It, it doesn't,
no single person is tasked with saving the world.
But what we must do at the very least is understand how things got this way and what we could do
together and individually to help. If we can understand the origins of the problem,
then we might be able to deal directly with its roots very effectively. The origins of the
problems, right, the forest of problems, but they come down to very simple roots. We'll leave,
believe this. Some of them are in language, but others are in our failure to structure
humane social collectives.
So I think it is our job to try to understand, and doom casting won't help us. Telling everyone,
the bad thing is coming, the bad thing's been done, that's not going to be very useful.
What we really need, everyone's pretty much aware of that, right? It's not news. So what we need now
are either, we need careful analysis of the underlying causal things that the humans are
doing and not doing together. And people like Daniel Schmockenberger and others like him
are amazingly adept at giving us some of the intelligence we need in that direction.
So there are some people on the job.
And then, you know, I think it's going to be tough, but like either we'll do it voluntarily
or we'll probably eventually be forced to do it. We'll have to form tightly knit,
small society like groups, alo families if you will, or possibly tribes
that are, whose motivations are heroic and humane and intelligent and aware,
and task those groups with
remediative operations, right? Medicinal, medicinal missions.
Most of what is most beautiful and compelling about our humanity has, we have rarely seen it
because we've never lived in a context where we must bring it forth, but we're approaching a place
like that for most of the humans on the planet in short order it seems to me. And so while we will
certainly see the depths and depravities we're humanly capable of demonstrated, we will also see
far horizons of our spirit and our intelligence. And obviously if we're going to lean into one
lane that's, I'm going to go with that one. Hopefully you will too, I expect you probably will.
Thanks for joining me everybody. Bye bye for now.
