Come.
Everybody.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
I speak a lot about time in my videos and I think in unusual ways about time.
I haven't found anyone to talk to who thinks in the same ways that I've come to think about time and temporality and its relationship to being and identity, meaning, relation.
.
What you saw a moment ago was the meeting of two reasonably distinct temporal universes.
The temporality of a human, me, this actual human, this specific human.
And that bird.
A bird we call a scrub jay.
And the meeting was catalyzed by an exchange.
Sharing.
And sharing is a language that's understood everywhere.
In all corners of the universe.
In all modes of time space.
And there are beings, organisms, or entities that are, have awareness of any kind.
Sharing is understood.
Though plants don't speak English, it's possible for them to ask a human being for water.
A human may be, or to stop watering them as well.
They have too much.
A human being may or may not be sensitive enough to receive the signals or
translate them into conscious impulses.
But something gets the human to water the plant.
Even whether, you know, we might say, well, for most humans it's just habit, right?
You water the plant on a schedule.
Every X often you water the plant.
But people who actually care for plants know that it's not just a schedule.
It's not just a mechanical process.
And in many cases, if we don't have many plants, we have only a few or, you know, we irregularly,
only irregularly relate with them.
Some of us will learn to sense the signal of the plant.
Hey, I need water.
Now, ordinarily, I mean, a plant in a pot is a very strange thing.
It's not like it never existed in history because there would be like little holes in rocks
where a small amount of earth would be.
And the plant would grow out of that little hole.
So that's a bit like a plant living in a pot, except the rock is a more complex entity than a pot is.
In a sense, there are senses in which the rock could be understood to be, to resemble a life form.
And the pots much less so, intentionally less so.
The little moth was a universe of time.
And it's my intention today to talk a bit about what I'm going to call temporalizations.
And I'm just going to start with one of my familiar tropes.
See, the squirrel and I are in a shared domain of temporality, the world.
For both of us, the sun is going down now.
The meaning for each of us is quite unique because the temporality of the squirrel is very different from my temporality.
There are shared transports of temporalization and temporal experience.
And there are also aspects of temporality and temporalization that are entirely unique to me and entirely unique to the squirrel.
What do I mean by entirely unique?
I mean that for the intents and purposes of my concern, we are in different universes.
Just as literally as if we were actually not in the same galaxy solar system on the same planet, etc.
Literally we are in different universes. And how can that be so?
I would encourage those listeners who are truly interested in the topic to explore the idea of a world line from relativity.
Each, what we might call an observer, but that's the sort of classical physics language.
Let's use the term experiencer. Each experiencer exists in a temporal continuum and a spatial continuum that belongs only to them.
It's impossible for any two beings to experience the same signal simultaneously, partly because in terms of time they're in unique universes.
They can share things between those universes, but not simultaneously.
And part of the reason is spatial and part of its temporal. Each of them inhabit, if you imagine...
Let's do an imagination experiment.
Imagine the space occupied by your parents before you were born spinning around on the Earth.
Imagine that that space is actually going around and on the surface of the Earth they are moving.
So the space is going around and it's moving. It's making a very strange little tunnel, if you will, in time space.
Then your parents meet. They have sex. Your father's sperm, one of your father's sperms, reaches the ovum in your mother, the fertile ovum.
And those two world lines collapse into one.
That cell begins to divide. Eventually you are born onto the surface of the Earth.
And now your world line has become distinct from your parents once you are born.
Though in a sense it's already distinct inside the mother, but not as obviously distinct as once you emerge from her.
So now you are spinning around on the Earth, orbiting the sun, moving around in the galaxy, the galaxy is moving around in the universe.
And your little tunnel that you are making in your lifetime, which changes its shape as you grow, right?
You become a child, you become a teenager, you become a young adult, you become an adult.
And so your size and the features of the contours of your body are shifting and changing over time.
Changing the shape of the tunnel you are making, we imagine that you are making a tunnel in both space and in time.
No one can occupy that same space and the same temporalization of yourself, the same temporality.
So because of that, it's impossible for people to have the same exact experience.
You'd have to merge the entire history of their world lines, these time-tunnel-like things, time-space tunnel things.
You'd have to merge them perfectly so that they matched in every particular for there to be two people having a simultaneous experience.
But if you merge them that perfectly, of course, you simply have the same being, right?
You can't have two beings doing that.
So if you examine the idea of world lines, it becomes apparent that something that we neglected to transfer from relativity
to the way that we think about identity and being and meaning and relationships,
which is that each organism is a unique universe of time.
No other organism not only has the experience of time, it's not a possession.
It's not merely a possession.
That's common language in English, but it's more than that.
It's that the being is forming time.
The being by traveling in time-space and relating with its environment and all the other beings in all of time and all of space, the future as well.
That being is making time because without relation, there's no time.
Time can be understood to be at least partly synonymous with relation unless we mean it only in the most abstract sense.
The sense of a machine measuring ticks, right?
And that machine cannot properly be said to be in relation with anything alive.
It can be properly said to be in physical relation with other objects, I suppose.
So, each of the organisms that we could distinguish is a unique universe of time.
And when the bird took the seed from my hand, two universes of time met and transferred signals across to each other.
Relation.
In this case, catalyzed by sharing, the desire to enjoy together, to have communion, to reiterate the unity that we might imagine is the origin of distinction and separation.
The divine unity, the fundamental unity, the primordial unity.
And of course, most all organisms have what we can think of as organs or parts
that compose a unity in an ongoing way in time in a way that music is the oral analogy of, right?
Music is a way of emulating what's going on in an organism.
I am breathing, my heart beat, my voice is music.
The metabolism of a single cell, the metabolism of my liver, the metabolism of my brain, the metabolism of my entire body,
the metabolism of my body in this environment with these other organisms, how we affect each other, signal transference here, harmony and disharmony,
harmony and tonality and atonality, all these things.
Our analogies of physical relationships of organisms in time space.
Now, the humans tend to think of flat time so that one second is the same second for all beings in all places.
It's not, it can't be, it never was.
That's a mechanical illusion.
That's a sort of blindness that arises in the wake of our having represented temporality with machines.
It's the shadow of the abstraction of time in our consciousness, in our thought, in our cognition.
Each second is a unique second for every human that experiences a second.
And the duration, while mechanically the same, is not experientially the same.
Which one matters?
Well, for beings, experience matters.
For machines, the mechanical is sufficient.
If we decide that as humans, because we, the humans, decide which matters and why.
According to our purposes in asking questions.
Now, as I often say, a single year on Earth is about half as much time as we would ordinarily think to ascribe to the age of the universe.
How could that be true?
And I mean this only at the human scale.
I'll explain what I mean.
So at the human order of temporality, one year on Earth, is about half as much time as it took the universe to develop in flat time.
The flat time analysis of the development of the universe, as currently understood by human science, is held to be about 14 point something billion years.
Maybe that something is a 3.
Or maybe 15 now.
It changes every once in a while.
As new data arises and we correct our estimates in our analyses.
So 14.3 billion years.
How could one year on Earth be equivalent to half of that?
Let me explain.
Flat time is very confused.
There never was such a thing anywhere in time space, except in human thought.
What's actually going on is that there are 7.8 billion human beings, each experiencing one unique year in their own individual world line.
And in the shared context of the Earth, both, not just one of those.
So that what you have is actually much more time, vastly more time than the history of the universe.
Because you have 7.8 billion human life years, individual life years.
Then you have all the relationships between each one of those humans.
And then you have all the relationships between each one of those humans and all the other things that they can relate with, all the other organisms.
Including the organisms they're comprised of.
For example, 35 trillion bacterial cells, 33 trillion animal cells, 70 trillion cells, viruses.
Countless trillions of viruses in a single human body.
And all the relations between them.
And here's the problem.
At the scale of the cell, a year, experientially, in metabolic time, a year for a single cell could be like, who knows?
A thousand centuries, 10,000 centuries.
And since we have, let's just suppose that a year for a cell, I'm going to make an extremely conservative estimate.
Let's say that a year for a cell is equivalent, metabolically, experientially, to a thousand human life years.
Well, since you have 33 trillion animal cells, or 34, 35, and 33 trillion bacterial cells, that's like 60 trillion cells.
So, one year for a single human being's cell population would be, well, do the math.
Ridiculous amounts of time.
In terms of the way we usually think about time.
So, what I'm trying to get at here is a couple of things.
One, time is relative to the unique organisms experiencing it and their relationships with each other.
Actual time is like that.
It's not like tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock on a clock.
It's nothing like that.
There's no such thing as flat time.
The 14.3 billion years we think of, or 14.3, it would be as if there was a single human being,
comprised only of one organism on one planet circling the Sun by itself.
And that planet would circle the Sun 14.3 billion times.
But you'd still have all kinds of relationships there to deal with in terms of accounting for the time.
Now, why is this so?
Well, partly it's so because if you just have one object and nothing else, there's no time.
Once you have two objects, you can measure relation between them.
Now you have the possibility of time.
But once you have three objects, time is different than if you have two.
And if you have trillions of them, which we definitely do, even in our own bodies,
now time is a really astonishing thing.
And it's not just, you can see how the nature of organisms invents time.
It's making time all the time by relating, by doing each kind of unique thing.
Every organism and every aspect of our metabolism does is a unique mode of temporalization,
a unique mode of temporality.
And they relate with each other.
So in a single second, more time is happening in our body,
more metabolic time, more relational time, which are the true forms of time,
more worldline time than the humans have ever imagined numbers about.
And we've imagined some big numbers.
The problem is that it's infinite.
What you can analyze or measure changes based on what you're including in the analysis.
Since you can't include everything, you're always getting a snapshot.
Now, here's why.
So first of all, we each have unique worldlines.
And those worldlines are temporal as well as spatial.
That means every organism is a unique universe of time.
There will never be another one.
It's as if it's the only one of that kind, even if there are many.
In fact, there's a way of looking at it where the more of the same kind of an organism there are,
the more it is as if each one of them is the only one that there will ever be.
This is the opposite of how humans normally evaluate the value of an individual being or object or situation.
Because we are biased towards scarcity due to what we've been scripted to think and see and analyze about what we call economics.
So that scarcity is more valuable.
But you can easily invert that perspective so that the preciousness of any given exemplar of a category increases as the number of exemplars of that category increase.
In fact, it's not unlikely that if there are divine beings, that's the kind of economics they use.
Or at least they're capable of both kinds. Let's put it that way.
And others. There are others, many others.
So that's the introduction.
Now, here's what I want to talk about now that we've got some groundwork laid out.
That's interesting.
Somebody set up an actual chair here, huh?
Well, I mean, it's a portable collapsible chair, but it's a chair.
Kind of cool.
I don't need to sit in it.
I have a limited amount of time to complete my mission today.
So the other day I was thinking, you know, I've had direct experience of other of intelligences in other kinds of organisms on Earth.
I've also had direct experience of the intelligences of a form that are not embodied in the same way, but rather float above populations of organisms or beings in time space.
Non-human intelligences that aren't organismal or aren't fundamentally organismal.
So I've had experience of both of these kinds of intelligences.
In the latter, embodied, I've had experiences of the intelligences in plants, animals, insects, astonishing experiences, living places, cells.
And I've also had experience of the intelligence of forms of intelligence that are what we would think of as transcendental.
They don't inhabit specific bodies.
And those are, when I say non-human intelligences, tonight I'll be referring to those kinds.
These are the kinds of things that people might think of.
They might categorize them as spirits, angels, demons, gods, entities, so on.
And that experience is quite dangerous, by the way.
However, it's also perhaps a necessary component of the nature of our own awareness and minds.
But that's a topic for another time, no pun intended.
I'm going to talk primarily today about the experience of intelligence in other organisms that we can directly encounter.
And so have complete faith in the existence of.
For example, the intelligence of the bird in the beginning of the video.
One of the reasons we don't, as humans, experience the intelligence of other creatures and organisms, trees, flowers, you know, herbs, grasses, seeds,
insects, animals, fishes, you know, amphibians, all the different classes of life on Earth,
is that the temporalization of their consciousness is radically different from our own.
In other words, metabolically a moment for a salamander, a minute or 10 seconds for a salamander,
is a radically different amount of time and a different kind of time than 10 seconds for a human being.
And in some cases, such as the case you saw in the beginning of the video, where the bird and I have learned to match our temporality,
so that we can both experience a transfer of assets across the relational web, the relational transports.
Part of what we're exchanging when we are sharing is time.
We are matching time together. We're coming closer to each other's temporality.
And the bird is close enough to mine, and I am close enough to it, that if we choose to, and if we learn to, if there's a reason to,
we can begin a process of establishing bridges where we share, in real time, across the distinction in our world lines.
Or the distinctions our world lines apparently impose.
Those distinctions also impose the possibility of communion.
That's the beautiful thing, in my view.
So, part of the reason we don't sense the intelligence of this tree, this shrub, these flowers, the mosquito,
is that the temporalization of awareness is very different.
And there are situations in which, for example, if the mosquito comes to bite me,
there's a shared dimension of temporality, a bubble of temporal relation arises, becomes full, and then departs.
The mosquito senses me from afar, it follows chemical trails to my cheek, it lands there,
it puts its, essentially, part of its proboscis into my skin, draws out the blood.
When it's finished and full, it flies away.
My blood is now in the mosquito. My blood cells, we are in a shared, now we're in a shared temporalization.
Because part of my body is inside the mosquito alive, still alive.
And so one must imagine, I must imagine, that those cells in that mosquito are communicating with the cells in my body
in some non-ordinary way, outside of how we usually think about things.
If you watch dogs' relationships with feces, more about this will become apparent,
but it's fairly clear to me that cellular hyperstructures from inside the body, when placed outside the body, can communicate to the body.
So for dogs, shit is probably a lot like a radio.
When they take a crap, they're paying really good attention to where they're shitting
because they're going to be getting signals back from that crap.
And their cells, the microbiota, and their guts can probably detect those signals
and transform their behavior based on a new reading of what's going on in the world
that's derived partly from the signals, from the satellite intelligences that live for a time in their feces.
And it's possible that signals continue beyond the event horizon of death.
Likely, I would say.
But they take a different form, one that we're not used to sensing or translating into conscious awareness.
So, much of the reason that we don't immediately sense the intelligence of other kinds of beings
is that the temporality of those minds differs both in not just singularly in form,
in many of its formal characteristics, its form characters,
and also its speeds, its rate characters, its tempos, its cadences,
and in its structure of many layers, because there's always many, many layers of temporality,
metabolically, relationally, cognitively, in awareness, in consciousness.
It's like a very sophisticated metaclock, the thing a clock is a derivation of, right?
There are many layers, they synchronize in a way that's pseudosymphonic,
and if we don't synchronize in the same way they do, we don't detect them.
And so one of the things that happens when we have pets, for example,
is that we begin to share, there are animals that can share temporality,
that are close enough to our temporality, that we can sense their intelligence directly, right?
Dogs and cats are great common examples, so too are mice and rats, weasels, ferrets, crows, ravens, magpies, blue jays,
the list is gigantic, raccoons, but there are specific animals that are very close to the temporalization
that's common to most humans, many humans.
These are animals like orangutans or gorillas, whales, dolphins, horses, elephants.
And so these creatures, elephants have about the same longevity as we do,
maybe they even live a bit longer, I'm not sure.
So too do parrots, right? Unusually, unexpectedly.
So there are creatures with whom we can merge temporalities enough to detect some degree of intelligence in them,
often a very deep degree, even though different forms of intelligence than those that are usually familiar to us,
unless we begin to pay very close attention.
If we begin to pay very close attention, then something magical happens,
particularly if that intention involves what we call love.
Then something magical happens, now we form a bubble of shared temporalization in which we both have satellite intelligences that
extend the nature of our awareness, our consciousness, our intelligence,
in a way that our physical material satellites in space are an analogy of, our derivation of this, right?
So now we begin to merge minds with the animal, the living place, the tree, the lizard, the housefly even is possible.
Believe me it's possible, I've experienced it for sure, I know many other people have too, it's quite uncommon, but it does happen.
The problem is that the relationship we are likely to have with something like a housefly, it has certain kinds of limitations,
they're not as concrete as we imagine, but a housefly has a very brief lifespan.
So time for a housefly is a very different thing than it will be for a human.
And the nature of a housefly's awareness is oriented in certain ways for certain, what we might think of as purposes or functions,
that a human's is not, nonetheless they can have a very deep, if momentary relationship.
An insect that's much more likely to provocatively share intelligence with a human is something like a wasp,
though again a wasp, the nature of the way a wasp is in the world, is not particularly amenable to long relationships with a single human being.
But a creature like a praying mantis's mind, that creature's intelligence is amenable to deep communion with human intelligence.
So most of the reason that we don't experience this whole living place in all of these organisms,
immediately, as intelligence that we can sense and directly relate with and communicate with is primarily because the temporalizations are different.
And in order to touch the intelligence of this beautiful plant here, there are some precursors that are necessary.
Domains of mutual interest.
A way to create a bubble of shared intelligence beyond the plant and beyond me that we can both inhabit.
Shared cadence, shared tempo, we have to match tempo with, at least partly, we have to have an aspect of us has to be able to match partly match tempo with the other organism.
So that we create a domain of shared temporalization, now we're in relation.
Now of course, we're in relation already, the plants here are fully aware that I am here.
They're just not aware in the same forms of awareness that I am aware that they are here.
And they rarely encounter a human that can match temporalization with them, but they all communicate with each other in a way that it's not like formal representational intelligence, but it is relationally intelligent.
And there are other forms of intelligence besides mere cognition and or, I don't know, relation is so fundamental.
There are many, many forms of intelligence and most organisms are capable of a variety of different forms.
In fact, they all have to be.
Because in a way, it's weird the way we talk about organisms is possessing intelligence or not.
They are intelligence.
Organisms are embodied intelligences.
That's what they are.
I mean, it's not the only way to think of them.
But without thinking, if we're not capable of thinking of them in that way, we're missing most of what's going on.
That's a crucially important way to understand the nature of living beings and not just living beings.
There's something about stones and soil and mountains and living places that in characters, the actual organisms that inhabit them.
So there's a relationship there that's quite profound.
Now, all I've really been able to do here is provide a brief introduction to the topic.
But I just want to recap a couple of brief things.
The nature of organisms is intelligence in relation, which could be understood as communion or reunion.
The coming back together of beings that were somehow separately and distinctly embodied.
And the music, the symphonic layers of their reunion over time, in time and space.
The reason we don't ordinarily detect the intelligence of other organisms is partly because its form is unfamiliar to us.
And that's partly because our purposes in looking are not rich and profound enough.
They're not broad enough.
And also, often when we are looking, we are only looking for a very brief time if we find no evidence we move on.
Concentrated long-term awareness begins to reveal the intelligence of plants, animals, living places.
This is partly why it's much easier to understand that a plant is intelligently relating with its environment and other organisms if we do time-lapse photography.
Now we have the long, visually the long view.
When we can detect and relate with the intelligence of other organisms, it's partly because there's a shared bubble where we're reaching toward their temporality and they're reaching toward our temporality.
And we're doing this often because we want to share, as in the beginning of the video, or with a dog or cat or other pet or even a plant in our house.
Or there's some other imperative that draws us into intimacy.
And intimacy is one of the ways to think about the quality or the behavior that reveals the intelligences around and within our own bodies.
There are hundreds of thousands of different kinds of intelligences inside our own bodies.
Our mind can communicate with those intelligences. Our cells are unimaginably evolved intelligences.
They're older than our ideas of the universe by many factors, not like by twice or three times or ten times, by millions of times.
They've been in relation with each other in the world. If they've been alive for ten years, they've been in relation with ourselves in the world for more time than we've ever thought about as human beings.
In fact, if you really wanted to talk to aliens, you might want to talk to yourselves.
Your bacteria, the viruses. Now, of course, how does one do that? That's a more complex topic.
I'm not saying there's some very simple, easy way, and yet your body listens to your mind and your mind emerges from the processes that comprise your body.
So these are accessible intelligences. The intelligences of each one of our organs are unique, and again, they're very symphonic.
They work together to make a kind of music. If the music stops, we die.
They're all communicating. They're all in love. They're all in communion, even though there's also conflict in paradise.
So these are some of the ideas that have been floating on the surface of my mind for a few days.
I'm very grateful to have the opportunity and the presence of mind to still be able to communicate in this way that will not continue indefinitely.
I'm aware of the preciousness of these moments that we share together, and particularly now in the circumstances that surround our world at this time and our species at this time.
It's never been more apparent to me that life is delicate and precious and easily disappears or transforms, but even then, the conversation continues.
I look forward to learning and exploring again together very soon. Thank you for joining me. Bye-bye for now.
