So, I'm pretty sure today is Tuesday, and I think it's 1.54 p.m., and from the compass
I've been given, I'm pretty sure it's June 16th.
In the year after the one we called zero, 2015, when I was a child, this moment was
distant science fiction.
For most of my young life, this moment was so far in the future that, as far as, it's
hard to, it's actually hard to make a frame that would make sense of what we saw as coming
when I was younger in the future, that would be here long before this time.
But you can watch television and see what we saw, right?
So back when I was younger, 1990 was the distant future.
And in 1990, we imagined world peace.
We'd be living in space on other worlds.
And we'd have incredible infrastructures of education and communal endeavor in thriving
ecologies that were well protected and understood.
So profound would be our advancement that we'd have stopped using combustion engines
long before 1990, and would be using something amazing and safe environmentally, at least
compared to combustion engines.
So we imagined amazing futures, and we lived in a calendar made of numbers.
And the numbers seemed to imply things, but we had no idea what, because the only thing
that they really implied was that, boy, were we going to make some amazing machines real
soon.
And these amazing machines would give us so much liberty and so much luxury that we'd
learn how to be intelligent animals in a living ecology again, and we'd stop attacking everything
in sight, including our own minds and each other, in 12 new ways each moment for 15 new
reasons of commerce, or what we call commerce.
And we probably wouldn't even need prisons anymore at all, and there'd never be anything
like prisons again.
And one could imagine that, really, the role of the police would be something like an intelligent
friendly superhero that could keep things from ever reaching a point so overboiling
where violence or killing or even arrest would even become necessary.
So we had visions of the future, but what I want to get at is really provocative.
And I'm actually really worried about trying to talk about this, because I've just noticed
it, and I'm not sure how to approach it, but I started to wonder what cash is, and of course
I've wondered this many times.
But this morning I got an unusual answer.
Cash is a replacement for identity, which means if you got enough cash, it doesn't matter
what your identity is.
And not only that, people will pretend that your identity, who you are, right, is really
valuable and important, worthy of protection, rescue, if you've got enough cash.
Or if you've got enough power, usually those two go together, but not always.
So the really weird thing about cash is that it becomes a replacement for identity.
If you don't have any cash, you don't have any identity.
Whatever your identity might be doesn't matter, because you don't have the cash to back it
up.
Now cash is an interesting word because it doesn't take much imagination to extend it
into cashier.
So in a particular meaning of this word, cashier sort of means, it's complex to explain it,
but it's something like, and it's not an abstract quality, it's a quality in human social situations.
So it's not numbers.
Cashier means one's value and influence in a social relationship of any kind or situation,
or even in representational environments like businesses, one's influence, one's ability
to marshal and direct, acquire and sustain influence in social groups, whether that influence
is merited or not.
So in representations, the goal is to have the cashier whether it's merited or not,
because maybe even the group itself is a fiction, whereas in authentic social contexts that
we can make and become together, you can't fake cashier.
Doesn't matter how much money you have, doesn't matter how much power you have, because those
representations are recognized as illusory the moment the context becomes real.
And we have this funny slang in modern times, getting real, so it doesn't matter how much
cashier you have, if you misdrive your car and smash it into other cars and things, blah,
blah.
In terms of the accident itself, your cashier might protect you because you had a more well
designed car and things, but it won't change any of the forces or repercussions of the
accident, especially for others.
In fact, the more cash or cashier you have, the more other things and beings and situations
will have to absorb the results of anything harmful and unintelligent that you do.
And many times they'll have to absorb those results either without complaint, or if you
have enough cashier, they might have to thank you for having harmed them.
As though the fact that they were harmed by you and for you is so important that it's
actually a kind of a benefit, all of course based on fictions, right, of who's got more
cash or who's got more cashier.
Now of course, in lower domains of culture where real cash and real power are just being
mimicked, we don't even have those, right?
We just have a lot of people sort of pumping and emulating the dances of the elite.
And nowhere is this more prevalent than in what is presently known, at least in our part
of the United States on the West Coast, as pop music.
It's a kind of a shocking, cartoonish parody that anyone who could see through would find
both anthropologically fascinating as in a study of what's going on circa 2015 and what
we got instead of Utopia.
But it would also reveal that the ideas on offer in our public spaces are so counterfeited
that they're counterfeits of counterfeits of counterfeits of anything, even vaguely
human, intelligent, authentic, alive, creative, imaginary, and so on.
In fact, a lot of them are just counterfeits of schemas of counterfeits.
Someone had a schema that worked, so we just start reproducing 12 different things in
a similar schema and make money with that.
But so what is all this cash thing?
And before I go too far, and I want to come back to the fact that it's a replacement for
identity as long as you've got cash you don't need an identity.
As long as you've got the ability to do a job, well, it doesn't matter what your identity
is, you have a job.
That becomes a good portion of your identity if not its basis.
So if you lose your job, again, you no longer have an identity.
And you don't have the cash to support the fake identity either in a bunch of fake constructs
where you have to pay everyone to have a phony identity that isn't even you.
You have to make cash to pay to have a fake identity that isn't you.
We all have to do this, and we'll even get arrested and stuff if we don't do that.
And none of us seem to be aware of any much of this, although we're all intuitively aware
of it, we all feel it in our souls, in our hearts, in the urgent parts of our minds that
like children are suffering something they're not equipped to articulate, even perhaps to
themselves, because it's so prevalent and invasive in so many domains at once that
it's hard to even organize anything like a human mind or an intelligence or a creative
approach to learning and relating with the difference between the possibilities of our
actually real authenticity and all of the stuff that competes with them.
And one of the things that competes with them is physical beauty.
So that if you're attractive enough, again, it kind of doesn't matter quote unquote attractive
enough.
If you're attractive enough, it doesn't really matter what your identity is, because you
have cachet.
And we've seen plenty of parodies and jokes about this in social media and such, right?
What it's like for a very attractive woman to walk into a bar, I remember seeing one
one video parody of this on the bright side.
And then on the dark side of that beauty, be it male, female or children, whatever kind,
right?
On the dark side of it is everyone wants a piece of it for every wrong reason.
So on on on, they're actually both dark sides.
The first side is your beauty gives you cachet so that doesn't really require that you have
an identity or develop one.
And that has two sort of properties.
One is that you get a lot of benefits and the other is that nobody sees you who you are.
You may not even find out or become who you are or be able to see who you are so that
that beauty and its effects in social and relational situations can just destroy you
or even destroy the possibility of there being a you.
Meanwhile, you'll be rewarded and celebrated in all kinds of ways that have nothing to do
perhaps with whoever it is or you aren't being inside yourself, right?
So that's going to be a terribly confusing experience for every single person, but especially
for those people who seem to be somewhere up near the upper standards of some fictional
yet popular idea of beauty or intelligence or athletic prowess or vocational prowess
or any of the things that replace our real identity with some kind of some kind of a
convenient token or constantly held status, right?
So that someone who is great in one moment is just presumed to be great in all other
moments and should it be discovered that they're actually human or that their greatness was
the disappearance of themselves into something amazing, everyone will be shocked.
And now we get to something even more interesting which is what does it mean to have a true
identity, right?
What does it mean to have an identity that isn't based on whether one is attractive or
not, whether one wears the right clothing, whether one has expensive or inexpensive tastes
and habits, whether one is verbally articulate or not, whether one is artistically articulate
or not, but rather how and who we are and why and where we come together for each other
and for purposes that matter, right?
So that identity doesn't become something held as if in the pocket of each of us, like
we've got one, right, which was never true anyway, part of why we have cash instead of
cashier, instead of actual personation together.
So the more that any kind of social situation, the more that it becomes structured, the more
it requires a structured hierarchy.
The more that happens, the more that becomes representational, pretty soon it's pure representation
and all of the actual structure in the hierarchy is all mixed up.
The important person is maybe even being killed.
The least important person is leading everything and dominating everyone.
And I don't just mean that there's a most important or least important person, I mean
that in every situation, who would be important can differ and how the group would constellate
should differ intelligently in every situation, right?
Because each person has unique assets and they change in different contexts.
So instead of recognizing that and having a fluid sort of reconstellating intelligence
in our groups, we just put one guy or girl at the top and then we build a structure based
on a lot of confusing social and possibly sexual dynamics.
We just put some structure in there and that's supposed to function as intelligence, right?
But what about if the least important person is exactly the one who knows the most intelligent
thing to do for the group, not for himself or herself, next?
And not only cannot speak but would be punished for doing so, which is of course a situation
in almost all of our vocational lives and much of our social situations.
Why?
Well, cash has a lot to do with it, right?
It really does.
And what would it be like if we played the other way?
Well, it's something like what we're doing now, right?
Cash isn't involved.
I'm not here as the representative of myself or of any specific group, kind of hoping we
can learn and see into some things that are really important about being human and becoming
intelligent and understanding what it means to be alive on earth together.
That's not too bad a purpose.
And we're kind of playing with our humanity for a moment, even though I'm really just
talking into a box, I'm imagining you with me, us together, for each other, trying to
understand this incredibly dangerous puzzling and ugly situation where cash matters, humanity
identity, ecology, relation doesn't or matters as an afterthought or something.
And so too with power and so too with things like defense or whatever the hell that means
when it's just a word in isolation.
So too with education, same problem that we have with defense.
So too with the environment, I mean the environment is everything in space time, right?
All the way down to every organism on earth.
We're just going to collapse all the frameworks into the environment, talk about that like
it's disposable, really, or like all those frameworks can just be collapsed into one
that we can manipulate as though we know what we're talking about because we don't.
So we're just trying to kind of learn something about how peculiar it is to be human intelligences
with representational minds in cultures that are fictional, unintelligent, non-self advancing,
but produce mad, mad technologies, endless machines, and representations like that's
the most important thing there could ever possibly be.
And then we live in, then we move into them, little boxes and things in our minds first
and then our bodies into boxes, filled with boxes of boxes of boxes.
And we imagine somehow that this is being alive or having an identity.
It isn't, because identity is only emerge and arise and develop in true relation.
And once you get in fictional relations or relations that are mostly constructs is mostly
something other than identity, and for that you're going to need a lot of cash.
And you're going to have to find ways to fake or manipulate situations so that you
can get cash, which means all kinds of provocative stunts and acting out and addiction and violence
and yelling and self inflation and attacking and police and crime wars and all kinds of
crazy things, which you don't have to take my word for.
You can just look around and see, none of us are very intelligent, as collectives were
extremely unintelligent, our protectors have turned to predators, the things that are supposed
to benefit us are poisoning us and everything else.
Pretending is the opposite of wealth, technology is the opposite of intelligence and humanity.
And something's gone horribly wrong.
There's no mystical cult that has anything like the answer.
Pretending you can just walk back into the forest is certainly not going to work.
Pretending we can get rid of machines or stop having collectives, or that they should
just be democratic or communist is insane and ridiculous and again, just a bunch of
traps in language.
And we actually have, we're in a place where we have to discover, A, what the hell happened
in clear, really highly structurally intelligent, tactically aware terms and what got lost,
what got replaced, how, why, where, what can we do instead, what can we be instead, what
does an authentic human mind or collective begin to look like when we understand what
it doesn't look like, which is most of what we are doing most of the time in nearly every
context.
And even in the context where we're doing something like humanity, today, 15 of those
outside fictional contexts will invade that one, and tomorrow 30.
So every single context within our minds and bodies and lives has been for the past 25,
30 years, being recursively reinvaded by fictions of, of, that destroy our possibilities of
having humanity or intelligence, communion, collectivity, insight, awareness, learning,
and replacing them with broken representations and replicas.
You can see it in every aspect of our culture, I need to point anywhere in particular, but
if you just listen to, you know, take, I don't know, 20 minutes, listen to pop music from
radio stations in 1972, and then do the same thing in 2015.
And whether you enjoy the pop music from 1972 or not isn't really the issue, but rather
just compare the complexity and diversity and depth of what was happening on the radio
before there was an internet and what was happening for the past, I don't know, approximately
25 years since our culture really began to fall into what Albin Toffler prophetically
described as future shock.
So we've orbited some pivots around identity and cash and the difference between having
a human identity, which usually means living and learning and caring with and for other
beings in real, authentically human and ecologically and relationally intelligent situations that
we, that we make and become together, right?
It means something like service within four, each other and thus ourselves.
It also kind of means the disappearance of the self into wonderful expressions of action
and relation.
So it's not so much like a hardening of the self, but rather a transparency, a kind of
transparency where, yes, I'm still here, I'm still Darren, but most of Darren's concerns
and worries and ideas are missing because now we are together making and being and learning
and growing and healing and protecting, nurturing, we're doing human things, excuse me.
And without a lot of really authentic experiences of that, it will be impossible for us to acquire
an identity so that some of us will manage to do that even though we're buried in fictional
conflicts and those of us will develop an identity.
Some of those people will even make some cash too and of course it's a matter of degree,
but most of the young people will never see clearly that there's even an option to develop
an identity.
All they will see is that there are slots that the culture will pay you to inhabit and
there are other slots that they will not pay you or punish you for inhabiting.
And so it becomes a kind of a sieve, a banking system of different ways of removing personal
creativity, agency, unique gifts and faculties, assets, birth rights, membership in nature,
the history of humanity and so on.
And then replacing those with essentially digits and functions, analyses and pay grades.
But remember in the beginning I talked about the date and what time it is.
And here's the really astonishing thing, but I can't stop recognizing.
I have no idea what time it is, none whatsoever because the only thing I've ever known is
a mechanical calendar that has nothing to do with any relationships at all except one
that's abstracted.
And that is the orbital relationship of the sun abstracted into a circle, a circle of
degrees that approach 360.
That's the only one.
And that's merely any two objects can have that relationship.
So that's just a pure abstraction.
But I know that right outside my door where there is any living thing, any insect, any
tree, any bird, creatures with true identity, yet no names, creatures with whom no addresses
or statistics are associated, except perhaps provisionally or unless humans have gone in
and marked them and done this.
There's a living calendar that always knows what today is, and it doesn't know according
to a system it's intimate with this day and all of the days and the history of days and
the history of all of those kinds of creatures, whatever they are, and the history of all
their relationships with all the other creatures, whatever those are, and all of the plants and
the ecologies and the oceans, the skies, the mountains, the deserts, all of everything.
So there's an actual calendar that's alive in and as the living world, and just like
the difference between having mechanical fake relationships dictated to you by a machine
and having actual relationships where you love and grow and have heroic adventures and
rescue one another and laugh and play and learn, just like the difference between a day at
a prison and a day in a context that's true and authentic and intelligent and exciting.
That is the difference between our relationship with time, as we understand it, as most of
us as humans, and reality, where all of time is living relationships, so I have no idea
what time it is.
I'm in a box talking into a box to people who will probably be listening to me through
boxes, and all of us obey clocks and calendars and have most of us very little connection,
although our bodies are absolutely undisconnectable from all of this, but in our minds we have
very little connection with living time.
What have we got?
Well, something like the equivalent of cash, right?
Instead of understanding and relating with the identity of the living moment on earth
and in all of the living things right next to and around us and with us, that we are
made of, that we emerge with and for, as an example of the entire history of, right?
Instead of having any sense of that at all, we have a 12 page book divided into boxes.
So we have a box, and in the box there are 12 boxes, and in each of those boxes there
are either, I don't know what, 28 or 29 for one of them, 30 or 31 for the rest, boxes.
These are arranged in groups of seven, seven.
That's kind of interesting, but it's not clear why it would be.
And then, if we're lucky, if we're lucky, one of them, one of those boxes in that book
might have a circle in it, or maybe even two, each page in the box might have two circles.
One might be the full moon, and one might be the new moon, and that would be the memory
of some kind of authentic relationship with reality.
So what does time mean?
No one knows.
We've turned it into a commodity, much like identity.
It's all been turned into representations and cash.
It used to be a living sense from which we could draw our own understanding and a real
pivot of our intelligence and identity, knowing how it is today with all the living beings
all around us that we relate with, knowing what the birds are doing, what the insects
are doing, what the plants are doing, why they're doing it, how these relationships
are important, how they are meaningful far outside of statistics, knowing what they're
doing today, why today, knowing what the sun is being today, differently from how it was
being yesterday, knowing what the sky is being today, differently from yesterday, yet connected
in a pattern, a living intelligent pattern back into the origins of life and the origins
of ourselves each morning when we awaken, so that a relationship with living time, like
a relationship with human identity, is to be with and for other beings, and sometimes
almost as them, to be with and for nature as nature, not as human nature, to be with
and for other beings as a human intelligence, not as you, right?
When someone is accidentally heroic, if they're honest, and many people have a hard time not
being when this has happened, they'll excuse themselves of the heroism and say something
like, I don't even know what happened, it doesn't even seem like I did it, they're telling
the truth, they disappeared into service, they did what anyone would do, what they actually
mean is I was everyone doing something and I wasn't myself for a moment, everyone did
this through me, it's kind of maybe even how they feel, or like the history of humanity
of everyone couldn't stand the fact that that child was being hurt and so I disappeared
and that history just walked up and said, hey stop that, or that some environment was
being obliterated, a treasure that belongs to the entire body of life and the history
of life on earth, was being just wiped out for some dollars or because someone had some
concept or statement that they thought was more valuable, alright?
Well then it's not me that comes forward and objects so much as it is something that's,
I'm disappearing and something more intelligent is coming out, and similarly, there's the
opposite, right?
I can disappear into an act of rage or self-defense or self-aggrandizement or violence just as
completely but in the opposite direction, it's like the balance of myself disappears
and I become pure representation, pure, and I'm gone in that direction too so that it
doesn't feel like I was me when I hurt someone later at all, it feels like I wasn't myself.
So there's sort of two ways, one is we disappear into service and learning, adventure, heroism
and intelligence together, or we disappear into the reaction, into some kind of incredibly
reactive expression of our profound pain, fear and frustration at just not being able to
be authentic, even inside ourselves, right?
And that disappearance just is really very similar, in the aftermath it certainly doesn't
feel like I did it, two varying degrees in various situations, but you can see the difference
between someone who's sort of thinking their way through a violent act or acting out, say
taking a dangerous drug or something, thinking their way through it, and someone who's just
suddenly missing from themselves and just acts out, right, and maybe has this pattern.
So it's really interesting, all these things are non-related with no connection to living
time, which means really living relations and not just with human beings, it must be
also with ecologies, since we're, you know, human beings are the expression of ecologies
so we can't put those aside and go, well we'll relate really intelligent with human beings
but never mind the ecologies, that doesn't work.
It's the same thing with the calendar, we'll relate really well with human beings but we
won't have any sense of what living time is about, we'll just have a calendar.
And for relating with the human beings, we'll just have cash, right?
You can see how this isn't going to even slightly work ever one time, and even if it seems to
work in the moment, there are 12 invisible ways in which it's doing the opposite of working,
that are going to come back and bite us, and by the time they do they'll be 24 or 48 and
so on.
So there's a living calendar and we have the opportunity, the obligation as part of becoming
human together and intelligent to learn how again to participate in a relay with the
real living calendar in nature that doesn't obey any specific system, it is what it is.
There's no overlay you can put on it that's better, right?
You can't make an overlay that shows you what's in there, you have to go into the relationships
yourself and participate in them to find out anything about it at all.
And if you start out with an overlay that's deceptive or self-aggrandizing, or highly
representational, meaning missing most of the content, having kind of a skeletal remains
of it, it won't help you, things will get worse.
It's the same thing in identity, right?
Identity is strangely something that we acquire by giving it away, and we love the people
who give it away best and most beautifully.
We love these people most.
So it's almost really weird, it's totally unlike cash, it's the opposite of cash, it's
something you have to share and give away to get any of, right?
And cachet is the same thing, you have cachet when you lift others above you, not when you
stand above them, grandizing your own magnificence in some domain, right?
But when your magnificence, however it may be true, when your skillful humanity, your
heartful compassion, when you're sensitive on compromising care and wonder and intelligence
in relation, lift everyone around you, you don't become the star, but you might become
the pivot around which that little pod can be excellent, yeah?
And they all become stars, and rather than looking like the thumb or the index finger,
maybe you look more like the wrist or the palm of the hand, yeah?
No one even notices the wrist.
No one mentions that a wrist played the concerto on the piano, right?
That part didn't get any mention, but if you think carefully, I think you'll understand
that it has a really crucial role, the more invisible it is, the more crucial the role
is in this case.
So yeah, it's weird, we learn and acquire the richness of personal identity, not as
a status or something that can be had or held, preserved even for a moment, but only
in true relation, only in doing and being human and intelligent, and how should I put
it, animals, organisms, creatures of time, space, and this world in this moment together.
And part of that depends on us being directly connected to the living calendars, not by representations
but by communion, by relation with them, by learning with and as and for and from them
about what it means to be human, which is how we acquired our intelligence, with which
we build books and authorities, technologies and representational frameworks.
So we acquired this intelligence from the living calendar and the living relationships
within it.
And in order to correct that intelligence, we're going to have to discover new ways,
but have nothing to do with magic because they're not about stories.
They have to do with actual relationships.
We don't need any extra overlays, we can play with those of science, and those are very
useful, but should not dominate what we learn.
But when we come to nature, we have to take off all the human cultural overlays and try
and see what's there as clearly as possible as nature, not as frameworks we acquired from
thinking or story books or magic books or books from God or books from science or anyone.
We have to go and actually try to discover what is the spirit of time in nature, and
not as researchers but as participants, which means we have to request admittance to these
relationships successfully and gain it, and they will not, we will not pass the gate with
fiction.
Cash will help you, cash will mean nothing.
The only thing that really works in nature, other than cunning, and it can work to a degree,
but not in relationships, only in predation.
In nature, what really works is authenticity and very intimate co-awareness.
These aren't set in nature, they're in a cloud state, and there are many astonishing
features of these relationships that I don't have time to show you here.
But when we begin to relate authentically with nature, and by that I mean living places,
living cycles, living things, sincerely and intelligently, as participants, not observers,
then and only then may we become capable of discovering what it means to be human or even
intelligent or an individual.
And a lot of what that's going to mean is going to look like an explicit conflict between
most of what we've thought said, been done, believed, and been really attending anywhere
outside of that, much the same with getting cash.
When we relate with each other authentically in contexts that matter and are deeply intelligently
purposeful, suddenly we realize very obviously that almost everything else we were doing
was both fake, toxic, somehow a reaction to not having been able to do this together,
and so on.
In other words, most of the problem is that we have so few places to become and learn
what it means to be human together, and again, intelligent, animals, organisms, beings in
time and space.
So few places, because every place that could be that is already filled with something else.
And we can't even go into those places and correct them, it's impossible.
So in most cases we just have to build a new context together, we have to not build but
become a new context together, in which we are doing that.
And hopefully this far too long bird walk of mine has been at least catalytic in that
direction, if not successful in creating such a bubble.
I hope to explore these and related topics in person and also in future conversations.
So thank you for joining me, I hope you'll continue to consider and reflect on these
things, ask your own questions, chase them.
I think you'll find they lead to very astonishing opportunities that aren't much like answers,
but can become amazingly clear ways of seeing that are very useful in a variety of contexts
in which it can be difficult to discern fiction from relation.
