Hello everybody. Welcome. It is wonderful to be a living being in a state of relative
health, even though it is also very conflicted, confusing, and sometimes lonely.
But I am glad to be here today with you, alive with you virtually as you know in my recording.
But I imagine that we are all together. Recently I spent a lot of time in Stockton,
California, where my father passed away. There's a bunch of money on the ground here.
At least 50 bucks.
So I picked it up.
A dangerous and somewhat exciting moment.
But it's funny that I was just about to remark on the profound difference between Stockton and here.
When I would go for walks in Stockton, it was quite isolated.
And very lonely. There was no one. Essentially no one on the street in Lincoln Village West.
And in Stockton, there being no one on the street would be considered usually, you know, good luck.
Because Stockton's a fairly rough.
How should we put this?
A rough and boring place.
It's also extremely flat, unlike San Francisco. But walking around this morning, or actually this
afternoon, there's so many people. And I was realizing that it's quite astonishing
to be a human being. This is a rough time to be born in. There have certainly been far
rougher times to be born in.
But, and I think it's about to get a lot more rough.
In pretty short order.
But I was in line at the Eres Mendi Bakery, where I often get a slice of pizza.
And the diversity of the humans there was quite profound.
And when I am near them.
You know, I have different feelings and orientations in different times and situation.
It can be very intense.
To be around the humans. And their diversity.
And their, you know, different unique.
embodiments of the potential of humanity.
Ordinarily, I take such things for granted. Of course, there are many humans.
Of course, we are all together in the city.
Which is a very confusing and conflicting place to be, actually.
Could be much worse. Could be on a battlefield, or in a factory, in some sweatshop somewhere.
Could be in a cargo box, being trafficked, or attempting to get to a new country, with our family.
Lots of worse things could surely obtain.
But this morning, this afternoon, I was just feeling how incredible it is, because
well, if you're a materialist, and I doubt, I strongly doubt that any materialists are
listening to my podcast, though I guess it's conceivable.
But if one's a materialist, then all of this is just an accident.
It's a mechanical accident. There's no such thing as souls.
Mines are an epiphenomenon of brain, or metabolic function.
And everything is explicable.
There's no mystery, really. Well, I mean, there's some mystery, I guess, still.
It's just that all mysteries will eventually be resolved into being an accident of mechanics.
By the way, I consider that position to be not only ridiculous and absurd,
but catastrophically, relationally disoriented. Because from that position,
relationships only matter trivially. And what I mean by that is,
well, I don't need to go into a long explanation of that.
So I don't think any of my listeners are materialists, though some might be.
But what was kind of blowing my mind a bit this afternoon, as I was in line,
waiting for a piece of pizza and a coffee, is that
all of these humans, we incarnated essentially in the same temporal window.
So now we are all alive together on the earth at the same time.
And this is a fascinating situation.
And there are many ways to conceive of it. And I would ask that we conceive of it in at least
three or four or five ways, not one. So from one perspective,
we are individual souls. Darren's soul is incarnated as Darren's body this time around.
And Jolene's soul is over there. And there is Tamaeus' soul. And there is Galactina's soul
incarnated here in this line. There is Howard's soul and so forth.
So from one perspective, we're separate souls incarnating in the same
temporal reference frame, such that it is possible for us to encounter each other
while incarnate. From another perspective, there is one soul.
Unity has precedence. And that soul is variously incarnating, and thus forgetting its unity,
or being presented with the unique opportunity of recalling,
recollecting its unity from within incarnation. And you know, we may think
thoughts such as, all of these beings, they are me. Or all of these beings,
they are the one from which I myself descend. Or all of these beings, these are
like tendrils in the flower of God's soul. Or we may think, oh no, each of these beings is
entirely distinct. It cannot be true, that last thing. But interesting to think it. And by the way,
to go back to the materialist perspective, there are many perspectives that I do not hold.
The perspective of the eliminative materialists particularly, and certain kinds of physicalists.
I do not hold these perspectives. And yet,
I think it's dangerous. There are perspectives whose
results are dangerous. For example, if there's no being inside the body
that can suffer, there's no reason not to inflict suffering.
If everything's just a mechanism, there's no spirit in there,
we can end up with lots of bizarre human behavior funded by perspectives that evacuate being.
But although there are many perspectives I do not hold,
I value most of them and would not want them.
Well, it's complicated. I think what I'm trying to say is that I appreciate the existence
of perspectives that profoundly contrast with my own. And often my own perspectives
are deeply related to that contrast. They are born, in a sense, from that contrast.
So, at least intellectually, I appreciate the existence of profoundly intelligent
materialists of various ilks, even though I don't agree. This is true primarily cognitively
for me. Meaning that loud, noisy machines in the botanical gardens.
It's something I don't appreciate the contrast of, generally.
So, while I was in line and all of the diverse humans, I mean, there were many diverse humans
all around me. Different ages, sizes, genders, orientations.
And I felt just how miraculous it was that there's a place, our world, where we can all be together.
No matter how divided we may become according to our creeds or beliefs or behaviors or
vocabularies failing here.
Our chosen associations.
And our unchosen isolations.
And I just, I felt for a moment
very grateful and also fascinated and somewhat confused and
filled with curiosity about this very strange situation where, like, why should it be
that all these souls incarnate together at this time and end up in this spot, in this moment?
Right? Middle of Ninth Avenue, between what, Irving and Judah, Saturday,
January 20th, 2024, 1.40 pm or something, right?
And an elderly gentleman familiar to me, Mario, approached me while I was in line and asked me
a bunch of questions about, oh, you know, are you still doing martial arts?
Who's doing it with you? What are you doing? You remember all these things?
And he's someone that I've pushed hands with once or twice. He knows the people that I
learned, that I recovered. That's not even true. I have to correct myself six times just
to make a statement here. He knows the people that I studied Tai Chi with somewhat recently.
And so he was asking me many questions, which obviously, since we were talking somewhat loudly
in order to be heard above the street noise,
obviously others were involved in our conversation,
perhaps somewhat involuntarily. But right, they heard us.
Hmm. Okay, let's try this again.
And we could hear others.
We could hear the sounds of the cars and the people driving and all of these things
are happening, quote, at the same time, unquote,
in the same place, right?
We are all together there. And we're not really making the best of it.
We're sort of putting up with it.
The people on the street in the line.
But I was feeling the profound delicacy, the vulnerability.
I was feeling the precious rareness
of that particular momentary association of souls.
And I was also noticing something peculiar to me, which is that
I've always been, well, always is sort of not true. But I've always had a very peculiar
aesthetic sense about humans and many other things.
But I like, there's a certain, oh man, this is a huge problem for me. Oh my God.
Let us say that
Okay, where am I going to go here? I've written myself into a corner.
I suspect that all of us have something similar to what I'm trying to describe here
or talk about.
But I have a compelling aesthetic sense of what I find affable or winsome
in human forms.
And we all have
affinities and antipathies.
But as I was looking, even how someone wears their shoes, I'm so
prissy and picky about this. In my deep interiority, I rarely will opine on this
matter to others unless we somehow find mutual fascination here. I will rarely speak of these
matters. But yes, I have a, you know, I mistrust it. On the other hand, I think many of our
affinities and disaffinities or, you know, antipathies may well have to do with having lived
many, many, many incarnations. And I don't necessarily mean as a separate soul.
Because I'm not sure there really is such a thing. I validate the perspective of separate
identities. But I don't necessarily believe that perspective.
So I was looking at the people and then I was
noticing my affinities and antipathies.
And then I was sort of marveling at how complex and articulate they are.
And,
huh. I suppose I wanted someone intelligent or bright curious to explore them with,
to explore this topic with, which is partly how I ended up in this predicament of
making a recording.
If I could sustain the curious fascination, the loving,
compassionate, beautiful, felt sense of the miracle of our existence, that we exist at
all, or that the existence can have any kind of continuity.
Because there's no reason to suspect that consciousness should ever be continuously
coherent, right? One imagines some situation where one is just falling, say, down a mountainside
after having been lit on fire somehow, and smashing into rocks and bouncing here and there.
And just there's no reason why, you know, in science and philosophy,
one fundamental question is why does anything exist? Why is there something rather than nothing?
And I don't think we understand nothing very well, because emptiness,
it's very unlikely that emptiness is,
that there's a sort of a purified absence somewhere, somehow.
This anti-quantity we call nothing.
Obviously, every time we look, you know, the blank page is an analogy of nothing,
but there's still a page, its blankness, and the mind perceiving it and categorizing it
as nothing, right? So that's not nothing, not by a long shot.
One of my particularly precocious friends, when she was a young child, she asked her mother
some incisive questions about nothing. I think one of them was what is the color,
what color is nothing? And her mother said black, and she said no, black is something.
She must have realized the lexical problem of indicating pure absence of qualities.
You know, we regularly and momentously underestimate
the intelligence of children, because they late at night or in midday, but certainly when they're
in their bed, they probe the matrix of the forms of thought they are slowly importing from adults.
And they are geniuses at this probing. If only their potential intelligence could find
in the human world a context that understood its scope and power
and potential, we would be raising gods and angels, not children.
These would not become human. And in fact, my strange aesthetics regarding human physical form,
I think they have some spiritual basis where I'm seeking
I'm seeking modes of elegance that imply to
my aesthetic senses or perhaps some preternatural sense
that imply more than merely human nature, origin, form.
I'm seeking, I'm looking for angels and elves and fairies and so forth among the humans.
And there's some aesthetic continuum
that reminds me of such
situations, incarnations, and so forth. My apologies for the wind sound.
It would be amazing if
the spirit of insight that occasionally arises in my
mostly relatively mundane awareness, it would be beautiful if that were constant and rich and
deep. And certainly I hope for its preservation and propagation in my awareness.
But most of the time when I am by myself, when I am not with, you know, intelligent others trying
to see better, which is my common, my common desire when with intelligent others,
who, well, I guess we can leave that aside.
Yes, I'm almost always trying to see better when I'm with precocious,
often autodidactic others, which most of my friends are.
And some of them marvel at me and I marvel back at some of them. However,
those who hold me in high esteem likely overlook my failings.
And that is an encyclopedic catalog. My failings are profuse, common, and
naturally find expression throughout the day. Whereas my virtues naturally find their inhibitions
throughout the day, more often than their embodiments or inactions.
And though I do chase what I understand as virtue,
and I believe very deeply that virtuous, okay. All right, before I go here, I'm going to go
directly to the root, as I understand the root, consciously, cognitively. The root
is probably the wisest move is probably absolute, transparent clarity, no attachment, no identity,
no affinity, no disaffinity, nothing to preserve, nothing to loose. Because only there
can whatever is actually true, perhaps dwell or be
embodied, enacted in the human form.
So, let me say that, that I trust that even though that's a cognitive trust.
I have little if any experience of such matters, even though I've long been someone who meditates
my meditations rarely approach anything like clarity or transparent, or trans presence.
But having said that,
it is clear to me that some behaviors appear from within ordinarily confused consciousness
to be better than others.
And this is from the perspective of consciousness that is
pregnant, if you will, with values.
So, clearly, it is dumb, for example, in this consciousness with limited
awareness of time and actually virtue itself and whatever the opposite of virtue is.
Ignorance, probably, stupidity. It is clear that
we're now running headlong into the tree in front of me, or punching the wall and
shattering my hand or something, right? Or even saying that sentence. These are not virtuous acts.
If we are aware of the power of speech, for example,
which I have just failed to be, sort of on purpose,
we will use that power with deep and careful awareness, respect,
awareness of its profound
effects on ourselves and others. And
most of the time,
we will avoid any kind of course, this course speaking, swearing and defaming others and
defamation in general. We will avoid these things.
Now, a few of us have the
consistent awareness of the profound
qualities and effects that speaking may have. And so, we engage in all kinds of
speech behavior, little of which is likely to be virtuous.
There's some California sagebrush here. This is a plant
that I love.
When we use the power of speech, which I am doing now, we in tone,
right? We emit music.
And the music touches the ears of anyone listening.
And the human listeners, and perhaps other listeners, are transformed.
Speech is fundamentally enchanting when it is not course.
And so, it is an incredible ability to make shapes, to make vibratory shapes in atmosphere
on a planet with many, many different kinds of ears. Surely even the grasses and
fungi and trees and so forth, they hear my voice.
So, it is virtuous for me to speak with care, attention, with love
in an attempt to enact the spirit of virtues.
The spirit from which all virtues derive, which one might declare is no spirit at all.
No eye, ear, nose, tongue, body, mind, no color, sound, scent, taste, touch, thought,
no seeing, and so on to, no thinking, no ignorance, and also no ending of ignorance,
and so on to, no old age and death, and also no ending of old age and death,
no anguish, cause of anguish, cessation, path, no wisdom, and no attainment,
as there is nothing to attain.
And this is the voice of
Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, but I am a human being still. I am not a Buddha.
If I am a Bodhisattva, I cannot tell.
But I am a human being with a deep concern about virtue, and for some time now,
someone very close to me has been engaged
in
a specific practice from the East that often leads to awakening.
And I suspect that because we are close,
some of their endeavors are leaking through to me,
so that I am sensing and becoming aware of
both my failings and the direction in which I might travel to embody virtue.
And one of the first clear
understandings that arose in this way
was that I had been speaking, I thought I was being playful and humorous,
but I had been speaking ill of someone who actually was helping me.
I don't need to say exactly what was going on there,
but I suddenly realized
there's a vocalization, right?
I realized that
not only was this behavior shameful,
but I also realized what would it be like
if the person in whom I had placed my trust and in whom was trust for me,
what would it be like if they heard what I said?
And this was the sort of thing that young boys
commonly experiment with how to defame other children,
usually male children, but not always,
how to insult them and hurt their feelings, so forth.
And it's, wow, the size of that hawk
out is one of the largest redtails I have ever seen.
It is enormous, its wingspan is probably four feet.
It was huge.
You know, among the humans,
bigness is associated with power.
And there's really no specific problem with that.
However, it is also misguided because
when a mythical person
was given the task of
sorting a vast storehouse of seed-sized material,
it was the ants that solved the problem for her.
They quickly sorted trillions of tiny grains into separate piles,
thus resolving her conundrum.
And all of the creatures who are large
are made up, it seems, of creatures who are small.
So it came to me one day that
this behavior I'd been engaging in
with one specific person
was ignorant and dangerous
and cruel.
And I felt ashamed
because though it is not my intention
to cause harm
or to hurt the feelings of others,
I was acting
ignorantly.
And I did stop, stopped behaving that way.
And I began to pay attention
closely to situations where
I might find myself inclined to defame others.
So I began to shine a light in my awareness.
A light that would illuminate
any situation in which I began to
veer from what I could imagine as virtuous speech.
I'm still learning to pay attention.
It's an infinite goal.
It's a direction, not a destination.
However, this is where things get interesting.
Most of us are aware that there are people who decide to take a vow of silence.
They will not speak anymore.
I've had occasion to be with such people who are, in this case, monastic.
And not all such people are monastic.
But one can immediately see that it is very difficult
to veer from the virtue in the dimension of speaking if no speaking is taking place.
You no longer have to concern yourself.
Now perhaps the concern becomes the quality of consciousness or awareness
and how we invest or
hold back from the investment in certain modes and forms.
And this brings me to the topic that motivated my recording today,
which was not what happened in the bakery line.
When I think about virtue, and I often do these days, as I approach my death,
I am much more concerned with the ethical,
the ethics of my life path and behavior.
I have at various points had some concern for virtue,
but I'm much more so now.
And the second insight that I had
after the one regarding the careful and articulate loving and compassionate use of speech.
If I am to speak, let me speak from the spirit
of true beauty and origin, communion, adoration.
But the second insight was stranger and in discussion with someone close to me the other day it came up.
And it is as if we have before us a bowl of water.
And whatsoever we attend or do or say or become involved with, it flavors this water.
And it is as if there are three or four different bowls of such water, right?
There's the bowl of the things I privately do in my own consciousness and behavior.
And then those concentric circles, right? There's the most intimate
relationships. There's a bowl for that in my life.
There's social relationships, acquaintances and so forth. There's a bowl for that.
And then there's sort of what everyone does. There's a bowl for that.
And things and sees and participates in.
And normally we do not pay ordinarily, most of us most of the time,
don't pay careful attention to what we put into that water.
But the water will hold not merely the flavor,
but the values that whatever we are attending, doing, saying, convey.
And some of those flavors and much of those values, especially in the public bowl,
what everyone is doing, those are malignant. If we had to drink that water or give it to
our children or deliver it to our ancestors as an offering, we would be ashamed.
And again, from the perspective of,
from the dualistic perspective of virtue and non-virtue, we would be ashamed.
If I had to give my ancestors the water of my personal behavior,
much of that soup would be poisonous and rotten.
Even if I am relatively virtuous, the still, the aspects where I am not,
will overwhelm the delicate, nuanced flavors of the herbs of my virtue
that I may have introduced to this water, you see.
And so quickly, one from this perspective realizes that
first of all, when will we have to drink the soup? Well,
we have to drink it every day. We drink it in our dreaming.
We will drink it at death. We may have to drink it just before birth, I'm not sure,
or shortly thereafter, or both, or all of these places. We will drink the soup.
And those we love will drink the soup. And those we don't love will drink the soup.
And everybody will have to drink the collective soup.
And that soup will produce active, lethal, violent, egregious harm to living beings,
and living places, and the ancestral lines and futures of living beings.
It will poison everything. That soup is very powerful.
You know, you can see the analogy in the relationship between the humans in general,
right, the species, and the environment.
Mostly, they tear the environment to shreds to produce lethal poison and garbage,
and undesirable objects in endless profusions, billions of packets of ketchup, or mustard,
or, you know, a trillion plastic forks a month, or whatever.
Obnoxico, as Buckminster Fuller called it. And by the way, read that guy.
Yeah, read yourself some Buckminster Fuller.
Because here was a man concerned both with the potentials of his human incarnation,
and with the soup, the water, the bowls of water.
So, in such an analogy, and the soup is an analogy, but it's an analogy of something
more than nearly real.
Going here.
It's funny. My transit to the thread of Buckminster Fuller
erased its footprints back to its parent thread. And so I lost my place, so to speak.
I'm going to digress for a moment, and then I will return. Often this is helpful.
I was walking up the street earlier during this recording, and
I saw the money on the ground, and the streets are busy, so the money
must not have been there very long.
And I realized in picking it up that I was taking a variety of risks.
One risk was that the person who recently dropped it might be nearby.
And that person might see me as a thief, for they have just dropped the money, and then I am picking it up.
And they might respond to me as a thief. That's dangerous. That's not worth it.
Whatever the outcome of that is, the money is not worth it.
Then also, to gain from another person's loss,
this is not virtuous.
In fact, to be oriented toward any kind of gain at all, this is not virtuous.
And particularly, to be oriented toward material or representational gain,
gold and silver and diamonds and houses and cars and so forth, money.
Not virtuous.
And so, as I was so funny, because yesterday or the day before I made a video about
what happens when the humans do something that captures the nervous system of animals,
such as sirens and coyotes or peanuts and corvids.
And then I am then subjected to precisely the situation I had been discussing in my videos.
If you see money, if you see $50 on the ground, what are the chances you will simply keep on walking?
And obviously, it should be obvious. But since we live in a world of humans, and even if we lived
in a world of spirit beings and humans, it should be obvious that some of those humans
and spirit beings and so forth set traps for humans.
To capture them and strive them of some virtue or valuable commodity, canonically their soul.
So, as I was picking up the money, I had the same kind of concern,
that the little birds, when I give them a peanut,
they don't just go toward the peanut and acquire it.
They go toward the peanut and leap away from it and toward the peanut a little more and leap away
from it again and so forth. So, it is clear that they are aware of the danger
of something that captures their nervous system.
You know,
the bunny
is contagious and malignant in that if it has acquired the spiritual
results of its exchange and what, if it has acquired the metaphysical
values and the agonies that its production and exchange produce in the living world
and perhaps the spiritual world, then nothing is more dangerous or disgusting.
I mean, I would be far better off picking up, okay, now I have to be careful here.
I am very good at producing hyperbolic analogies in language, but when I do so,
I am avoiding virtuous speech because it makes the image of the hyperbole in the minds of my
listeners. So, rather than make a specific image, I will just say, you know, picking up the money
is probably worse than picking up something we would consider very disgusting
and untouchable, yet I did so.
I allowed myself to be captured in that moment by the representational
layer in which I do participate and exist and so its values overwhelmed
the nuanced senses of my soul and so there perhaps I sinned.
Very few people will walk past a stash of money they spy upon the street.
But I would like to know a few of them and maybe to become one.
So, back to Bucky and the water.
We make this water together and the insight that occurred to me some time ago now.
And I am sure it was in conversation with someone close to me, but I also suspect it may be
the result of a leak, a leak in the between of the person who is studying and trying to
grow into this Eastern wisdom tradition.
And perhaps if we are making the soup together and we drink it even while yet we live,
which I think we do, it's not a leak, it's a transmission.
And the insight was something like this.
When we are captured by what is common among the behavior and attentional habits and transactional
habits and isolation habits of the humans, when we are captured the soup becomes very murky
and disgusting, and we lose something precious, something resembling degrees of freedom
in the sense of our human capacity for development, learning, growth, play, wonder, awe,
anemesis, recollection, memory, fulfillment, development, the true rewards of actual virtue.
We lose these and they are replaced with cardboard cutouts and advertisements and garbage.
And we then traverse a path where we go from low hanging fruit to lowest hanging fruit
to rotten fruit on the ground to something even much more disgusting.
Now we are eating from the corpses of dead things.
And I've there done the thing I rejected doing earlier with my analogies,
thus speaking indelicately, doing the opposite of what I am saying.
But also acknowledging that.
So it turns out that
if we wish to explore the benefits, so to speak, of virtue,
virtue is unconcerned with such rewards, true virtue concerns itself with no.
It is not concerned with being rewarded or getting something.
It is probably concerned with not getting something,
not getting the results of
action, attention and behavior
that are not virtuous.
In other words, not traversing the path I described.
From better fruit to worse fruit to stuff on the ground to rotten things to
the next lower realm and on and on and on, which is I think what most of what's going on,
a lot of what's going on in our human lives, behavior and experience, especially as moderns.
The incredible luxury of not having to fight over food and resources for many of us
produces all kinds of problems.
This is why, in part, many cultures deeply value work.
And the maxim, the devil finds work for idle hands is a reflection of what happens when
luxury produces sloth
and spectating and gluttony and so forth, right?
Intemperance and the opposites of virtues.
So it struck me then
that what preserves degrees of liberty, the freedoms
and the fruits of having avoided wrongdoing
is often something we don't do.
It is temperance.
It is behaviors we refuse to engage in.
Now look, we don't have to worry about these if the structure of our lives naturally rebuffs them.
They bounce off the well habituated daily structure of I wake at dawn, I meditate,
I have a modest meal, I work very hard in the garden to produce the food I eat,
I rest briefly, I have a modest meal, I meditate, I work very hard, I have a modest meal, I sleep.
This kind of a structure where meditation is shot through the day and
there is no, one is too busy to engage in troublesome activities or concerns.
And I don't mean to sound puritanical, but virtue is a real thing and
our defection from it is also real and profound.
Now, it's true that such concerns only arise from a perspective that is dualistic, but let us be clear.
There are probably zero people who have cut through the mind who are listening.
I am not one of them. I have spent a considerable amount of time attempting to do so, not succeeding yet.
So, the insight was that
resisting, successfully resisting the urge to engage in behaviors that drag us down the ladder,
the tree of liberation,
resisting those urges, potentiates liberty, flight, seeing from above,
extrication from traps, liberation from habit, suffering,
entrapment, addiction,
soul loss, and so forth.
And so, surprisingly, what we are able to become and see and do is often profoundly dependent
on what we are not doing.
Because it is as if we have 70 kinds of resources,
but if we invest any of them over here, and let's say defamatory speech about self and others,
then we have 12 left.
And these are likely to be invested now that we have this first investment.
Things are very likely to go south from there.
It turns out that the aura of virtue is delicate, and once compromised,
it's like the membrane of a cell.
To kill a cell, you lies the membrane.
So, anything that contributes to the continuity and the wholeness of the membrane has a very
profound effect in resisting defamatory speech.
This has a protective effect, a medicinal effect on the membrane of the cell of virtue.
And so, much of virtue has to do with not doing the things that compromise the membrane.
And this produces vast benefit that direct acts of virtue also do produce,
but the foundation appears to me to be not so much what is done, but what is not done.
What we refuse to engage in.
This potentiates the field of virtue in a very profound way that is trustworthy.
And this is why we see the admonitions and prohibitions of
the monastics and the religious. They are not simply out there yelling at stuff they don't like.
Whether we are religious or not, whether we have any metaphysical sense or not,
virtue is profound and the effects of its opposites are staggering and devastating.
Though we can see lives in which it appears momentarily,
at least, that someone who is malign prospers.
The reason for this is complex. I can see many things about it. I'm not sure if it's
useful to go into them. Perhaps I can say something simple.
When a stream of behavior or activity becomes prevalent
in the incarnate culture of humans on earth,
one can ride within that stream and enjoy what appears to be certain protections
from having to drink the soup we have actually composed for a time.
But it seems true to my experience and awareness and perception that
we will all drink the soup. There's no not drinking the soup. Eventually you have to drink it.
And if it's nasty, it will not go well for those who have thus composed an icky soup.
So it is often better to abstain from putting anything in the water, right? Hard to make a
mistake that way. And then from there, from that awareness,
like the water is intrinsically better than bad soup. Always better. Water is always better than
icky soup.
So, you know, one strange admonition, brilliant and ironic
of the Zen teacher. Oh, can I recall his name? I do not know.
Perhaps it will come to me.
Only don't know. That first word is really important. Because otherwise we, the whole thing
becomes ironic. If I know that I shouldn't know, then I have knowledge of not knowing.
Which immediately becomes problematic.
Yeah, I only don't know. This is an admonition to let the water remain clear of ingredients.
Hard to go wrong that way. Water will always nourish you
as long as it is not poisoned or intoxicated. But then there's sort of a secondary principle,
which is if you will add something to the water, do so with an awareness of nuance, subtlety, add
something you are sure, you are relatively certain will make for good soup later and will not
deteriorate, become moldy or rotten with time and won't overwhelm the subtle integrity of the broth.
Love and kindness is virtuous.
But it's most virtuous when it is unintentional. Like one acts naturally
from loving kindness without awareness that I am acting from loving kindness.
Because once I am aware of virtue and the possibility of virtuous action,
if I become attached to that, it then becomes ironic.
Right? Now it becomes self-invalidating in a strange recursive way.
This is probably why the mind of no mind whatsoever is celebrated among the wisdom traditions.
The mind of clear water, cloudless sky,
the mind of beauty before
the awareness, before discriminating awareness, the beauty, this mind of beauty
is celebrated. And it's very common that the celebration
causes problems. Because those inclined to such celebrations
have probably already acquired a problem.
Right? If they are going to celebrate,
non-duality, this is dualistic.
Nonetheless, for those of us, you know, over on this side of the conundrum,
right, where some degree of dualism pervades
in awareness, thought and behavior, then we, you know, it's like preparing a garden.
We are careful what we add to the soil.
And we might want to import rich soil from
an organic place, an unintoxicated place, and start with something good.
Just as for the soup, we don't want water
redolent with the flavor of chlorine. Often the attempt to purify the water poisons it.
So this is a common problem for us humans.
This is why I say what is often what is most trustworthy is to add nothing.
But if we're going to add something to the water,
and look, the goal isn't perfection here. If the goal is perfection, it's a problem.
Right? It's going to be a problem.
What we want is,
we want to learn to see better, to recover abilities and skills.
And we want to grow.
Though this word is value laden, what we want is progress in the sense of
not we are right, but rather we are less wrong.
Hmm.
I'm flinging little halves of peanuts to nearby sparrows.
And it's clear that it's mostly the males who are getting them,
because it's mostly the males who are aggressive enough to compete for them immediately.
And unless one of the males is giving his share to a female,
nearly none of the females are getting peanuts.
This is pretty common among the birds. There's one female who,
yep, she thought it was a trap. Right? And by the way,
so what, you know, I often say, like, if you let me watch animals, I will learn something
profound. So what am I learning here? What I'm learning
is the tropisms of the gender.
Oh, finally a female gets one.
I'm learning the tropisms of the genders among the
sparrows. I'm learning something of them. But what I take from that
is that the males will die far more often if there is a trap involving something
that captures the nervous system of the birds. The males will, you know,
35 of them will die for every one female similarly trapped.
And again, you can see here the principle of non, right? Walk past the $100 bill,
which I failed. I failed to walk past a $50.
But yes, it is my sense that
virtue when supported by a context with integrity free of adulterance is very profound.
And this potentiates liberty. It's in the beginning, right? It creates an open space
naturally inclined toward liberation. And so often it is what we will not, what we do not do
that potentiates a future in which we may enjoy.
Not so much the fruits.
Oh, that's interesting.
Not so much the fruits of our
historical situations.
But the absence
of impediments.
I am very grateful for this time together, for your attention,
for sharing
a way of seeing better together, ways of seeing better together,
even if only briefly in the strange predicament of physical incarnation.
May your paths be blessed and beautiful and rich with loving kindness,
wise and gentle and generous companions, good sleep and dreaming, good food and healing,
good homes, good relations, good vocations may be blessed.
I look forward to learning together again soon.
Thank you. My life for now.
