Good morning everybody, you can have some fun with the sun as it's rising, my shadow
is long in front of me.
It's so beautiful, the stillness in the morning, all the trees, the songs of the birds, sunlight,
the color of it, the flavors of the quiet.
You know we have in English and in our thought a variety of sort of polarized dichotomies.
It's your heart or your head, it's your money or your life, it's your body or your mind or
your spirit.
It's black or white, it's good or bad, it's finished or not.
I won or lost.
And many of these dichotomies are useful, but only if we keep them as kind of toys, right?
If they become embedded in our minds as hard distinctions, concrete boundaries, then things
become very confusing.
It struck me briefly as I was walking this morning to meet with my little group, that
there are only others if we are in our mind and in our bodies and in our hearts that way.
In other words, there are only others if we decide that there are.
And again, I'm not saying the distinction is entirely fictitious, because if I'm in
my relationships or situation or feelings in a way that's very much about just me, then
that's how I feel, and that's what I see, and that's how I respond and what I respond
to, it's how I relate.
But what if there are no others?
What if there aren't any others?
What if everything that all the beings do is as much for all the beings as it is for
themselves?
Or what if it's even more for all the other beings?
So that fundamentally, all the beings are one irrevocable family, way down deep at their
essence.
When I see beauty, I feel beauty.
When I see other beings feeling pain or being hurt, I feel pain.
Not because I'm just imagining something.
There's no time for me to imagine.
If I hear the dog yelp, I feel pain.
I somehow feel part of myself is hurting.
If I hear someone crying, I feel pain.
When I see someone suffering, I feel pain.
Why is that?
Is it because I imagine others?
No.
It's because fundamentally, if we leave the language aside and we don't take sides, there
aren't any others.
And imagine what a relief this would be if there weren't any others.
There are no more prosecutions to be had.
No more, right, all this accounting and thinking about, well, did I get what I was doing?
Did it work out the way I liked and blah, blah, blah.
All that would go away.
Imagine what a relief it would be suddenly to just realize, ah, all of the beings and
the sun and the sky, we are all together always first.
No more wars.
Always helping each other because we know fundamentally, not because of rules or rights,
but something beyond all possible declaration, the endless invitation of communion.
I remember, occasionally, I see outside the language and ideas so common to our modern
situation, and there outside is a paradise if only we can walk together toward a way
of understanding and learning that isn't dominated by the makeshift structures it can play with
but should reject the absolute, you know, the implication of absolutes, right?
No, there is a body and there is a mind.
It's not really true.
It's useful language sometimes, right?
I think in our essence we are with and for all other beings.
There are no others.
But even though I understand and can sense this, it's not fully accomplished in me yet.
It's still like a mysterious sense of urgency that guides my choice of direction in my heart.
But yeah, if we are in the world in our hearts, it's very difficult for there to be others,
if our hearts are really open, I think maybe we learn how to otherize things and beings
and people and circumstances.
And if there are something like others, it would be the thing that stands out to me because
of its catastrophic inauthenticity and its sort of machine-like quality are our institutions.
Those are like others in a way or can be seen that way.
But the living beings in places and all the beings in all of time, there's something we
don't really have a word for.
And in that family, unity prevails over any possibly imposed distinction.
And I think our original way of being beings and organisms and animals and humans and peculiar
minds, all of its roots are in unity.
And in that unity is exquisite liberty.
This is where freedom lives.
This is the direction that leads beyond the sky.
Back to where we come from.
Back to the before of the before.
Good morning.
Have a life for now.
