Hello, everyone. Welcome.
And once again at the San Francisco Botanical Gardens,
a place that I come to enjoy the living time, living beings in relation.
There's not a huge amount of wildlife here,
although there are these, the geese who are amazing.
And part of the reason that I'm making this video today is due to something
I was involved in with some friends the other day with the geese.
I have observed them very closely for a long time,
and I'm very interested in their lives and relationships.
In our modern situation, we are, in a sense, outside of living time.
And one of the reasons that I come here is to return to living time.
And this is what I'm going to be speaking about today.
And these animals, these geese,
helped me understand something very important the other day,
something fundamental, crucial, important to all of us in different ways,
but very important to our health and intelligence and humanity.
I was here with some visiting friends the other day,
and we were kneeling down so that we were near the geese and kind of among them.
And they began to emit a series of calls, the geese to the west of us,
began to emit a series of calls, and all the geese stopped what they were doing
and paid very close attention and put their heads up.
Even in here we cannot escape motors.
So the geese put their heads up and looked to the west,
at least the ones in front of us did,
and all the other geese paid very close attention.
And they were emitting a series of calls,
and I followed their gaze but didn't see anything.
I've heard these calls before,
and I was kind of in the moment,
so I was overwhelmed in a way because there was a lot going on.
I had two new friends with me, we're down among the geese,
the geese are calling, they're paying attention to something,
I don't see anything.
And when I say a series of calls,
there was like a musical sequence of calls happening among a few geese,
and suddenly they leapt into the air as one animal.
And my friend Josh said they were synchronizing,
and at that moment my mind was completely blown.
I had not expected or understood that,
and it had never occurred to me that the incredible synchronization required
to fly in a V-wing of geese might have a vocal precursor,
that they might prepare for that vocally,
and maybe even establish order and rhythm of wing beats,
and have a prologue to the very intimately mutual experience
of flying together in a wing of geese.
And I was blown away,
and I'm still staggered by this beautiful experience.
That the geese would synchronize before taking flight
should be relatively obvious,
but I never noticed it before, and all the times I've watched them,
they vocalize while flying too,
but the sound is different.
Before I knew much about the geese,
before I'd encountered them close up,
and I remember some of my first encounters with them,
which didn't really happen until I was in my 30s.
They've always been good teachers for me.
They teach me things all the time.
And when I first came here looking and paying attention to them,
I had a question in mind, I had a goal in mind,
which was to learn from them how to tell the difference
between a male goose and a female goose visually.
And I knew this was possible because they do.
If they can do it, we can probably do it, right?
It took me many years, and it's not done yet, I'm not done yet,
but I have learned a lot of things about this,
and there are some relatively clear signals about gender
that one can discern or distinguish in these animals.
There are behavioral signals,
but there are also anatomical signals, as we might expect.
And I was thinking, probably I would find a single thing
that would stand out and tell me,
I never did find that yet,
but I found a constellation of things,
and I didn't find that out since we're speaking here today
about time and cycles.
I never did find that out until I met a couple near the lake
of geese who I thought were sick.
They were kind of ragged looking and had lumps on their legs,
and they limped, and they looked like they might be sick.
And when I first saw them, I thought, ah, these poor, sick geese.
And I felt compassion for them.
And over time, I continued to visit them,
and one day one of them wasn't there, and they're a couple.
And I thought, oh, no, one of the geese has passed away,
but she hadn't.
It was, however, that day that I realized they weren't sick.
They were not sick geese, really.
Well, I guess you could think of them this way.
But I realized that I had been confused,
and what they actually were, were elderly geese,
a thing you don't see much in nature.
Elderly geese are uncommon because they ordinarily don't survive.
They get taken out by predators, or illness, or weather, or whatever.
So in the elderly geese,
the differences between the genders were exaggerated,
and it was very easy for me to tell which one was male, behaviorally.
So they gave me some, a variety of clues.
But I want to return to what happened with the synchronization music
of the geese preparing to fly.
And I believe that my friend was right.
At least he was largely correct.
It's probably not the only thing they're doing.
They're not merely synchronizing,
but that's an important aspect of what they're doing
when they emit this particular call,
a sequence of calls together.
They form a chorus,
and it's, you know, like I say, it's like one,
it's like, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah.
This kind of sound.
Although I've never, I haven't tried to emulate it,
so that's probably not a good, a good emulation.
But it's something like this.
And the animals emitted it in a series
before they took off together.
And I'm very aware of this phenomenon
of beings acting as a single organism.
And I believe that our distant ancestors
were deeply aware of this phenomenon.
And even today,
the rather tragic animal that human beings are,
we form tightly knit unities.
And I would suggest that we, like,
like dolphins or chimpanzees or other social mammals,
we are pod animals.
And we are fundamentally inclined
to form extremely tightly knit groups.
And you can see that our representations of this,
you can see representations of this
all throughout culture, right?
And you can see things like military units,
sports teams, corporations,
teams within corporations,
choruses, rock bands,
a medical team.
All kinds of examples of where humans form
something not entirely dissimilar to this, right?
A unity with useful, distinctly endowed members.
And this, by the way,
is almost an exact duplicate of what the geese did.
They had a leader to wing men, to edged people.
They may not have been men, by the way.
They could have been wing women, wing beings.
So they made a five member group when they took off.
And I strongly suspect that we humans are missing out
on something that's been profoundly overrepresented
in our cultures and media.
We're missing out on being a meaningful,
having a meaningful role in a union
that is complex, heroic, creative, playful,
profound, effective, beautiful, and ancient.
Now, not all of us are missing out.
Some of us have found ways to belong
to what I might call Aloe families.
Families that we form spontaneously,
that are beyond our birth families,
but may include them.
And there are Aloe fathers and Aloe mothers,
people who father and mother,
people who are not their children,
in the world, both casually and formally, right?
There's places where this happens sort of spontaneously.
I go to the garden near my house.
I meet the old Indian woman from India.
She teaches me about spices and cooking
and gives me some plants from her plot, right?
She's Aloe mothering me momentarily
without it being a necessity or something we agree upon
or even talking about it, right?
And there are aspects of my own life that are like this,
where I have Aloe children.
And there are Aloe brothers and Aloe sisters.
So humans naturally form when allowed to
and when encouraged especially,
they'll naturally do this thing of forming pods
and they'll do it spontaneously,
but they can also do it intentionally.
The problem we have is similar to the problem
that we pose in nature,
which is that we have too many representations
and we've commodified the pod aspect of our humanity.
We turn it into a commodity, a business model,
a military function or organ,
a sports team, a rock band, so on and so forth.
It doesn't mean that these are not meaningful things.
It means that they obscure something more fundamental
that I believe we should all have access to
because I think we are pod animals.
And what I want to touch on today,
these will be some initial reflections,
is how we synchronize and what we synchronize with.
On the way over here,
I encountered an idea, a new word,
that I'd never heard of before,
that I think is very important.
I was reading a book briefly
that was in like the cheap box outside of Green Apple Books.
I think it was called the Bipolar Disorder Survival Manual.
And I was just paging through it kind of randomly.
And I came across this fascinating concept.
There were two words and I can only remember one of them
and I've tried to find the other, I will eventually,
but not while I'm making this video or before it,
so perhaps you may find it yourself.
One of the words was Zeitgeber,
and there is an antonym to Zeitgeber
that might be something like Zeitserber.
A Zeitgeber in this nomenclature
is an aspect of our lives
that generates a field
in which our biological rhythms and our circadian rhythms
and our social rhythms and our emotional rhythms,
they take a cue from this phenomenon.
So that might be something like the sunrise time,
which changes throughout the year.
Our work schedule,
when we meet with meaningful companions or friends,
when we don't,
exercise time, when we eat,
when we watch things on screens,
when we read books.
But because we are intensely social animals,
there's this vast field of Zeitgebers around us
of which we mostly remain unaware
and so our rhythms can become very profoundly disturbed.
And I have certainly experienced the profound disturbance
of my sleep cycles and rhythms a number of times.
And all of our biological phenomena,
experience and activity are linked
and they're linked,
actually to call them linked is the wrong word,
they form a unity.
And the rhythms are deeply affected by the Zeitgebers in our lives
and if those change, our rhythms change.
We synchronize differently.
Our sleep cycle can go haywire,
our moods and emotions can transform,
our capacity to interact socially can transform dramatically.
And it doesn't just transform,
it doesn't merely transform by crashing,
it can transform by going sort of into super function or hyper function,
it can do all kinds of things, we can become very creative,
we can become very moody or agitated,
all kinds of things can happen.
But I invite you to begin thinking and considering about the Zeitgebers
in your own life that you can identify.
The things that are the anchors of your relational temporality,
your social temporality, your intellectual temporality,
your creative temporality, your sleep cycle, your eating cycles,
your exercise cycles, your learning cycles, your performance cycles.
Because we synchronize with the things in our relational environment
that become important.
And we do this largely unconsciously
and there are very deep consequences to discovering and becoming aware of this.
When we are not aware of this,
we can easily be completely destabilized by something relatively minor
changing in our lives, something seemingly minor, right?
That turns out to be a pivot on which our life clocks are orienting
when we awaken, when we eat food.
Some people eat food immediately when they awaken,
others wait a long time, this can change,
this is one of the things, this is the Zeitgeber in this nomenclature.
Similarly, there are things that mess up our synchronization,
they desynchronize us and they are the same things, right?
If we get a job where we're working at random times that are unknown,
this can defocus our ordinary synchronization cycles,
can distort them, can disturb them, can cause them to break down.
If we make a new relationship,
one of the most profound Zeitgebers are human relationships that are very important in our life
for some reason or another.
These may be friendships or romantic relationships,
but they can be other things, for example, the relationship with a new employer
or a relationship with someone who we don't want in our life,
but we have to have there for some reason, right?
Unfortunately, many of us will experience something like this.
Even in a relationship with someone that we perceive as an opponent or an enemy,
can deeply affect our rhythms, our cycles.
Long ago, the primary inputs for this were the tribe,
which is like a super pod of little sub pods,
and the cycles of transformation and relationships in nature,
which we might refer to as the phenological cycles.
These transform over seasonal time, over sun time and moon time,
so that each year, during a specific moon cycle,
we are likely to see, and this was known by indigenous peoples very deeply,
and eventually became common knowledge among agricultural peoples and so on.
But each cycle of the moon is unique,
and there are certain things that happen in nature.
Nature is synchronized.
It's like an orchestra, in a sense, except it's not formally regularized
the way an orchestra might be.
It's fuzzily regularized,
and there will always be unique new transformations and relationships
and synchronizations that will happen over each cycle of time,
whether that's an hour, a day, a moon cycle, a solstice cycle,
whatever we pick as the metric.
So what I'm hoping to reflect upon together with you
is the importance of what we synchronize with in our lives,
with our bodies, with our minds, with our emotions, with our hearts.
It's a beautiful sun.
It's blotting me out occasionally, which is fine,
and somewhat appropriate today as I was singing to the sun this morning.
Now, of course, in case it isn't obvious,
relationships, signals, however you want to think about it,
with the sun and the moon are fundamental to living things.
And for most of human evolutionary history,
the primary zeitgebers were in nature.
They were animals in plants and weather, sunlight and darkness,
moonlight, starlight, water, food, each other, community, communion,
the animals, they were these things.
In our time, all of this has become very vague for nearly all of us.
It's still there in the background, but we're paying attention to machines
and clocks and calendars, fake metrics, human-imposed distinctions,
non-living, non-giving relationships,
and many of these things are the opposite of zeitgebers.
They disturb what might otherwise become
a healthy, beneficial music of synchrony
and meaningful participation in living time together.
In some families, they still come together around the same time each evening
to share a meal.
They may come together around the same time in the morning to share a meal
if they're very lucky or young.
And this was an important zeitgeber.
It reassured us and reaffirmed our mutual synchrony and meaningfulness,
our love, our relation, our belongingness.
And we need this kind of experience as human beings.
These kinds of experiences are fundamental to our well-being,
to our hope of intelligence, to our minds, to our biology,
to our metabolism, to our brains, to our guts.
And they've been disturbed fundamentally, particularly since the onset.
One of the most profound changes in human evolutionary history
that is still a big experiment, and I'm quite concerned about this experiment,
is the onset of technology that emits light.
That's a really dangerous thing, light-emitting machines.
It's not very long ago that there weren't any.
Although there were candles and fires,
those are very different from light-emitting machines.
And right now, as I'm speaking, I'm holding in my hand a light-emitting machine
on which I can monitor something resembling what you will see when you watch this video.
And what I will see when I watch this video later.
And strangely, this machine is also a light-absorbing machine.
What you see in the video is not what you would have seen with your eyes where you hear,
because your eyes are different than a camera. They're not the same thing.
The crows and ravens are preparing, I think these are crows,
they're preparing for the evening roost get-together.
They're about to make a pod for the night.
They might live very separately during the day,
but in the evening they will come together as a group.
And this is quite common with many species of birds.
They are synchronizing with each other,
metabolically, socially, tonally, with vocalizations.
There's something very profound we can learn here together
and we're willing to explore this with curiosity and intelligence and wonder,
because we can recover aspects of our humanity that have been lost in the modern circumstance,
where the opposite of zeitgebers are disturbing and distorting
our biorelational clocks, our metabolic clocks, our emotional...
clock is the wrong word. Tempos, yeah, tempos, paces.
Many of us have experienced profound disturbances of our relational, emotional, or circadian rhythms.
And some of us have had the wonderful experience of having those rhythms re-established
in a meaningful situation or relationship.
Now that we can relate with people in other parts of the world,
something I've done quite a bit of electronically,
we can actually have relationships that can be very important to us
that disturb our rhythms because we start to match time with distant others.
I believe that human beings form bodies and minds together first,
and that individuality is a sort of peculiar myth, right?
It's what's left when you break the human away from all of the...
all of the fundamentally crucial temporal and emotional and biological companions
that we would ordinarily travel with in time,
presuming that our relationship in time is a kind of travel.
I suspect and have good reason to believe that our relationship with time
is much stranger than what we imagine.
It is not merely linear by any stretch of the imagination.
No, it's something quite extraordinary.
Something our rational minds would have difficulty accepting,
let alone believing in.
And I think this because this has been my experience,
not merely because I like wild theories about time,
although sure, I'm interested in that too.
So I want you to think about with me, about the processes
and events and entities and beings and elements of nature, organs of nature,
in our lives that are zeitgebers,
things with which we synchronize naturally, consciously and unconsciously,
though I think most for most of us unconsciously
because we're not ordinarily trained to consider these things.
And I want you to also think about those things with which we relate
that are the opposite of zeitgebers,
that rather than establishing healthy synchronizations and rhythms
and supporting those and nurturing them,
they distort or disturb or break synchronization
or cause an unhealthy synchronization for us.
For example, having to get up to move the car
or not so that we won't get a ticket.
And the notifications that arrive on electronic devices
and haptic notifications on devices that produce physical feedback such as vibration,
the lights that come on at night outside,
those in my neighborhood have recently been replaced by LEDs.
This is, in my view, an extremely unhealthy transformation.
There was an excellent example here in the botanical gardens
of the opposite of a zeitgeber, something terrible.
And maybe I've got this right, maybe the word is zeitserber.
It probably means to sever in German, but we'll figure this out.
I'll find the Antonin eventually again.
So somebody had the bright, the very dim idea
of trying to scare the geese away from the Great Meadow
and particularly the fountain there.
And this person was apparently the head of Parks and Rack or something around here
and had very little relationship with the gardens
and decided to do something that was fundamentally wrong
and, in my view, dangerously stupid.
So what they did was they installed loudspeakers in the front of the gardens.
It could be heard for nearly a square mile.
And approximately every 15 minutes,
they would transmit gunshots and the screaming calls of terrified geese.
That is an excellent example of the kind of bizarre and deadly ignorance
that our modern cultures comprise.
Nobody knows whether installing the bad light of LED street lamps all throughout the city.
No one knows what the biological or circadian repercussions of this are.
Nor is anyone very concerned about it.
This light is terrible.
It's far too bright.
It's far too white.
It produces really bad, double-tripled, vibrating shadows.
When you look at it, it's like it's vibrating in a horrible way, at least to my experience.
I'm extremely unfaunt of LED light in general.
But they put these speakers in the gardens
and every 15 minutes you would hear terrified screaming animals
in a botanical sanctuary.
And this is an excellent example, if a very explicit one, of the opposite of a zeitgeber.
They were establishing, literally, a rhythm of terror in the garden.
And thought this was a good idea.
By the way, the geese, our geese around here are city geese.
They live in the city.
They were like taking naps by the speaker.
They didn't care at all.
It had no effect on the geese.
But it had a really profound effect on the human beings and maybe on many other organisms.
Actually, to say it had no effect on the geese is probably wrong.
What I mean is, it did not frighten the geese away.
It didn't serve the purpose for which, you know,
it didn't serve the purpose they had in mind when they were installing it.
And I stopped coming to the gardens.
That's how severe the disturbance was for me.
And I didn't really want to come even to the park,
because it can be heard far, far away from the gardens.
And they ran it all night and, I mean, it was a terrible thing.
And there are many things like this in our lives.
Now here is a phenomenon that is alive.
This is the blossoming of the magnolias.
And it's happening right around the full moon of this month, right?
This month.
And you can see right here, this little camellia next to it is also blossoming.
Just one blossom right now.
These trees are said to have a symbiotic relationship.
So it's not surprising to see them beginning to blossom at the same time.
And if we watched closely, we would find that each year there's a specific moon
and a specific maybe day during that moon cycle on which that magnolia plant,
it will bloom, it will start to, its buds will open.
There are cycles within cycles within cycles and they form something like a living symphony.
And our human essence, the nature of our humanity is linked fundamentally to the rhythms in nature
that we to easily overlook or the rhythms that are obliterated by what we end up relating with
instead of each other and the living world and the sky and the living places.
The essence of our humanity depends fundamentally for its health and well-being on a wide array of synchronizations.
And we have some volitional access to this.
We can transform, we can be selective to some degree about what we relate with and when,
when we awaken, when we eat, when we come together.
And we can also learn new ways or remember old ways of creating synchrony among us.
And that synchrony can be astonishingly powerful because it can become a motive force.
And that motive force can transform human history, not just our own lives.
It can move the world.
That kind of synchronization that is very deep and is shared among many beings
for an important relational goal or purpose can deeply affect history and the possibilities of futures.
So I think the synchrony is really deeply important to our own personal lives and to our health,
fundamentally important to our health and our well-being and our opportunities to discover and explore our humanity together.
But it's also very important to how we form and play out social agreements, societies, anti-societies, fake societies.
It might be one of the arbiters between a society we can trust as authentic and one we should reject as false.
Unfortunately, most of our experience in modern history is with societies and communities that are essentially either false or largely falsified.
You and I didn't establish the United States of America, you and I didn't establish California or San Francisco or any of these groups.
We acquired membership in them only modestly, intentionally, at best.
I'm not an American because I chose to be an American.
I'm an American because I was born in California, you know, and I've lived most of my life here.
So I'm also a Californian primarily for the same reason.
But that association is not particularly meaningful.
The association between me and the people that I love, that's very meaningful to me.
The association between me and the living places, that's very meaningful.
The living creatures, that's very meaningful.
These other associations are not meaningful.
And in fact, again, they are the opposite of zeitgevers.
We live in a society that's constantly inserting junk into our temporal relationships
and also toxicity like the ridiculous loudspeakers in the botanical gardens.
So we need to be vigilant about this without being over too concerned.
Because if we become too concerned, we run the risk of isolation, right?
Or of being so disturbed by the opposite of a zeitgeber or a toxic synchronization pivot
that we cannot experience happiness anymore.
So there are risks involved even in becoming aware of these things.
We don't want to overreact.
We want to maintain a steady, curious, aware outlook.
But also we want to be intelligent and attentive when something new is being introduced into our life
whether that's a job or a new relationship with time
based on some phenomenon that occurs regularly in our environment.
For example, one of my neighbors has a robotic vacuum cleaner.
And the thing goes around banging into walls pretty loudly where I live every day at a certain time.
There's another example of a toxic, intrusive, mechanical thing that disturbs natural rhythms
by inserting just mechanical disturbance, right?
Now I am particularly sensitive to mechanical disturbance.
Although I've spent much of my life fascinated by and working with computing technology and technology in general,
I'm a bit of a Luddite in that I think primarily our relationships with technology are harmful.
They're certainly harmful to the living world.
And some people would claim, well, they're absolutely necessary to the survival of 7 billion humans.
And people will claim many confusing things when they're trying to defend something that they're used to relying upon.
I think it's much more complex than that.
For example, the world can probably support 7 billion human beings, maybe.
But what it can't support are billions of objects and machines.
I've often heard people talk about population growth,
but rarely heard anyone mention the explosive overpopulation of objects and machines
and how lethal that is to living environments.
And again, these devices distort time.
They distort our natural relationship with rhythm, with each other, with the living world, with the sky.
We need darkness at night.
It's surprising that I would have to assert something this obvious.
But we need darkness at night.
We need to be able to be relieved of bright, intrusive illumination when it's time to sleep.
And the light from our computer screens has been a zeitzebra or disturbing our circadian rhythms
and producing severe biometabolic problems in our people for a long, long time now.
And as I said, I think the onset of light-emitting machines, LAM,
was one of the turning points in human history where we're going to undergo radical, largely toxic transformations of what it means to be human,
simply because we've developed machines that absorb and emit light.
And that's a very dangerous thing, because until we did that, all of the synchronizing signals from light were from primarily natural sources.
We need those signals.
We need healthy zeitgevers.
And as individuals, we can't control what our supercultures are doing directly.
We can try to mitigate some of the damage that comes in directly into our personal and communal and relational experience.
We can try to mitigate that damage in various ways.
But it's not possible for me to do anything about the fact that there are LEDs now all over my neighborhood
and that the golden light that was already too bright at night has now been replaced by a light that's blinding and disorienting.
We're probably not going backwards.
We're probably not going to un-technologize, except perhaps in small, intentional communities
like Tamara, for example, which I think is in Portugal.
But we can become aware of the importance of zeitgevers, and we can be selective about those that we intentionally include and attend.
And we can be aware that when we form relationships with people, this changes our temporality.
We can match temporalities with people and situations that are important to us so that we care about.
If I form a close relationship with someone in a completely different time zone, that will transform my inner temporality dramatically.
And I knew this before I had these terms like zeitgever.
I knew this before that.
I was aware that relationships affected when I ate, slept, dreamed, what I did, what my mind was doing, my mood, all these things.
So I think the geese inspired something really profound and important for me personally.
It's not something I haven't been aware of previously.
It's that I have a new way of being aware of it now, and I can see how important it is.
And again, I think that fundamentally the idea of humans as individuals is highly confused.
I think we naturally want to form what I would refer to as pods, and one of the best models of that is just our hand.
It's a unity formed of distinct members.
Without each member's distinct character and qualities, the capabilities of the unity are limited.
If all of the members are doing exactly the same thing, the hand isn't really a hand.
It doesn't work, and that's part of why we have unique digits and unique appendages.
Even my right eye and my left eye, you can say like they're both eyes, they're not the same thing, even though they are the same class of thing.
And we can easily understand that they are the same class of thing.
The right and the left sides of my body are quite different.
Only 5% approximately of the microbes that live on my right hand live on my left hand.
So the appearance of similarity can be very deceptive.
The power of diversity is something fundamental to life itself and to its profound beauty and resilience and intelligence and relational synchrony and symbiosis.
So these are initial reflections on a topic that I'm hoping to revisit because it's still very new in my mind.
I have this experience of the geese, I have these new words, the zeitgeber and its antonym.
And I'm so grateful to have this opportunity to share and explore with you the aspects of our humanity that we are rarely in a position to become aware of, to pay attention to, to learn about, to explore and to engage in together.
Sun is beginning to set.
And if that's not the primordial zeitgeber on earth, it's one of three of them.
I think I would also mention that we should pay attention to emotional, just before I'm signing off here.
We should pay attention to emotional inputs and pivots and cycles because these are crucially important to us.
When there's a rhythm of positive emotional and relational input, we have a natural tropism toward this.
And similarly, when there's a rhythm of negative emotional and psychological and relational input, this is incredibly disturbing for us as animals
and as heartful human beings.
There's a big machine in the sky.
It's a rescue helicopter.
And the intrusion of that sound is the opposite of a zeitgeber.
It disrupts all of the living sounds in the garden and it overrides them.
One might say it overstands them.
So there, again, we have a choice, right?
We can determine to what degree we relate with or are offended by or are disturbed by various phenomenon.
We have some intentional relationship with this, yeah.
But I think for those of us who are suffering health or mood or psychological disorders, the rhythms of our relational lives are the fundamental place where we can seek healing.
Even if we feel very isolated or helpless or vulnerable, we can make little changes over time, small transformations.
We can include something that is healthy and joyful, reassuring and nurturing.
And we can exclude some things that are disturbing and de-temporalizing, right? De-synchronous, de-synchronizing.
And in this way, the geese have brought me a great gift.
And this is part of what is meant when people talk.
I could hear the wing beats of the ravens. It's such a beautiful sound.
And they are synchronizing vocally across. Birds do this all the time.
But yeah, what I was going to say was just like this is one of the things that is meant when humans talk about learning from animals
and learning from observing plants and learning from observing living places
and the relationships and temporalities that are natural to those beings and places.
This is a beautiful moment of receiving, for me, something transcendental from the white-jaw people, from the Canadian goose people.
They gave me a great gift and my friend Josh helped me recognize it because had he not specifically pointed out
that they were synchronizing in their calls prior to getting airborne, I would have made a mistake.
I would have thought too simply about the behavior. I would have thought something like,
Oh, that's the pre-flying call. I would not have seen the synchronization aspect.
So I'm so grateful both to the geese and to my friend Josh, who is amazing and brilliant.
And to his moment of insight, he just immediately recognized,
Oh, they're synchronizing and my mind just lit up and has continued to light up since then.
So again, I'm so grateful for this time that we have together to explore these things.
And for those of you who pay attention and are curious and want to learn together,
somehow we form an invisible community.
And it's one that I deeply value and treasure and is very precious.
I may not meet you all in person, but our minds and hearts have met in this strange modern electronic situation.
And maybe we have made something beautiful of the possibilities of the machines involved in recording and cataloging and transmitting the sounds and the thoughts and the ideas that we share.
May your way be gentle and good. And thank you so much for sharing your time with me. Bye bye for now.
