Hello everybody. Welcome.
It's getting pretty warm
around here, kind of mildly, at least for my
neighborhood.
I'll leave off the,
well, maybe I won't.
So for a number of years now,
we've seen in the media
if we
are in the cohort that pays attention to media, not all cohorts do.
We've seen discussions about something
being referred to as climate change.
I've often considered this to be a red herring, meaning
something that we can distract ourselves with
in the foreground while something far more catastrophic is
happening in the background. And it turns out that
the COVID-19 coronavirus situation
provides a smoke screen
for all kinds of nefarious
bad behavior, devastating behavior. Because while everyone's
focused on one thing, predators and opportunists can be doing
something else, and they're much more likely to get away with it.
They can also get in, make the money, and get out
before anybody is aware of what's been being done.
And so there's a lot of
adventurism and opportunism going on in the background that
few, if few of us are aware of, and our institutions
are incapable of coping with
or even capable of noticing or
recognizing that there's an issue.
And we see things like this
often in situations where
extremely delicate at-risk ecologies
and or people or other delicate
situations are suddenly
transformed, destroyed, taken advantage of,
turned into profits, somehow, whatever.
This goes on all day, every day,
in our human situation today.
So I'm quite nervous
when I first became aware of the coronavirus. I was concerned about the
contagion. Though in the early days
we didn't have a lot of information about it. It's not clear yet to me that we
actually have a lot of information that's trustworthy. But we have a lot more
than we did. But one of my primary concerns was
this kind of thing. Oh crap, this is going to be a smokescreen
that every kind of bad actor, opportunistic predator
and so on, will certainly take advantage of. And of course
that does go on and did go on.
In a climate change situation
it's a much more complex mess.
Because certainly there are natural cycles of transformation
of the climate and environment
that we don't really have a
handle on the heartbeat of. So we don't know when
we should be expecting them. Although we,
I mean the scientists
who study atmospheric phenomenon
climate
transformation and things like this. The experts
is sort of what I mean by we. And then
those institutions that selectively disseminate
the findings of the experts are also involved.
Because we don't learn anything
from science. We common people don't learn anything from science
unless the findings are disseminated
in forms that we have access to and can understand and take
advantage of and so on.
So we depend on the media
to sort of
translate the findings of science
into information that's comprehensible to us.
And I just want to say that overall that process is
catastrophically inept. To put it mildly.
We'll see headlines like science says blah blah blah or scientists
discovered. It's never true. Science first of all, science can't say anything.
Science isn't a person, doesn't have a mouth. Scientists
can't say anything because it's actually specific
individual researchers who say things. It's not
scientists as a whole. I mean there's
a thousand kinds of scientists. They're not all standing up and saying
well we've validated the speed of light to dot dot dot dot dot
some number. Some measurement.
What happens is a select group of physicists does
specific experiments that produce specific results with a specific level
of confidence about those results.
I guess that's called a p-value maybe if I've got that right.
And p greater than 0.05
if I've got this correct. I work in the industry
but I actually don't understand p-values technically.
But I know what a confidence level means. How confident are we
that a specific set of findings
are valid.
And there's a couple of different variables
that are involved in determining the validity of findings.
P-values are one of them. Confidence intervals are another.
Though those two things may be closely related
and there are a few others.
Sometimes science is done in what's called meta analyses
and that's where you get a bunch of research from different researchers
surrounding a specific topic of interest
and look at the findings over a number of different studies.
Can be useful. Can also be deceptive.
The validity of science depends on
the accuracy
of the argument of the researchers performing it.
And this is why
there's sort of a controversy around this today because
there's a kind of scientific
or religion like aspect of science
where anything that
hasn't been peer reviewed is considered
a question mark. Possibly it might
just be dismissed. And the peer review process
is fraught with perils, inconsistencies
and problems that have not been resolved as of today.
So on the one hand you have scientists who will only
acknowledge peer reviewed science. And on the other hand you have scientists
who will at least look at material that hasn't yet been peer reviewed.
And by the way what peer review is supposed to mean
is something like an adversarial process
where you get experts in the field surrounding the topic of interest
and you send them the paper and you ask them to tear it apart.
The goal is to find its weak spots.
And then as the referees, which are the people who do the peer review
respond with their questions, objections
and disagreements and so on
then the authors have to address each
of those concerns, every single one of them, before
the journal will consider publishing the article. Every journal has a
slightly different process even though the processes are similar.
And so validated
science in our time means
that has undergone peer review.
There's lots of problems with peer review. It's not a perfect system by any stretch
of the imagination. It can be gamed, it can be
bought, though we'd like to think that this
is uncommon. It probably isn't as uncommon as we'd like
to think. And the topic
that I'm orbiting here today is
how do we, what
should we trust about information that we receive?
This is the basic topic that I was thinking about earlier.
So circling back to climate change
I've long seen climate change as a kind of distraction,
a red herring, hiding a vastly more significant
and absolutely factual situation. But before I go
down that road, I'm going to back up a little further to where
I was talking about there are cycles of transformation
of the environment and climate over time.
This is simply a fact. Our research
has revealed a portion of this
to us. There are lots of ways we can try to
understand what has happened in the past and
see if we can read in the data, in tree
rings and in core samples of ice
or soil or from the seabed. There are various
scientific specializations that analyze this data
to determine what was going on, you know,
climatologically and over what periods and
was there a pattern and this kind of thing.
And most of that science seems relatively
trustworthy.
But it's catastrophically incomplete.
In fact
unless there are living observers
that we can talk to, it's impossible
to know what happened in the past, formally.
We can form theories and make arguments and this kind of thing.
That's entirely reasonable to do.
But actual first hand knowledge,
no way to know. So we can't
even know that common things that we take
as universally true were the same
in the distant past for organisms living on earth.
We can't know that, there's no way to know it. It is often presumed
and it's not necessarily unreasonable to make such a
presumption, but it is unreasonable to call that presumption
fact, truth, justified true belief
or knowledge.
We don't actually know what the conditions were before
our people were here and by our people
sort of mean the moderns this time.
And though it seems reasonable to presume that many things were
the same, there's lots of open questions about
what our
common clinical perspectives nearly demand
that we overlook. Meaning
the chunk of important useful perspective
and knowledge that is dismissed by our methods and approaches.
And that chunk is probably gigantic
at all times because our methods and approaches
while extremely functional in the narrow
ranges of concern and observation in which they are involved
are catastrophically
misinformed beyond that very narrow range.
There's just no data, so we don't know anything.
And if we ask ourselves a question, which is kind of a weird
question, but nonetheless, with modern science and technology
what percentage of what's going on, what actually is
what percentage of what is, can we be
aware of, can we understand, can we examine.
And there's no way to know what the answer to this question
is, but my guess would be vastly less than one percent.
Like, I don't know.
One one hundred thousandth of a percent.
So that's not much different from total blindness.
If you could only see one one thousandth of a percent
of what an ordinary person sees, you'd be considered
functionally blind. You would see nothing.
Or you might just every once in a while get a tiny glimmer.
And so some people will say, some people might
object to what I just said, and we'll say, no, no, we know lots of things about
lots of things. I would agree, we know lots of things about lots of things,
but compared to what there is to be known, that's nearly nothing.
So there's a weird problem where
our seeming advancement over
higher epochs of humanity encourages
some people to think of us as highly advanced.
That advancement is not untrue, but its scope is so
narrow that and as we've advanced in those
specific avenues or slots
we've devolved in others simultaneously.
As we became more and more aware of the power of
clinical analysis and so on, we became less and less aware
in general of the importance
of our orientation. Or how
our purposes affect not only the research that we do
and the findings that are made, but how they are interpreted.
And without them being interpreted, those findings are meaningless.
So the spirit with which we bring to our interpretations
has a profound effect on the shape of the
interpretations, what we derive from them, what we make of them
and how we discern in which ways they may or may not be meaningful
and to what purposes
they may or may not be applied. All these things are crucially important.
Most of them are
blatantly ignored.
A lot of them are blatantly ignored
in both research and in findings and also
in the media that reports on research
with absurdly ridiculous headlines.
If you believe the headline
you lose like 10 IQ points right now. It just makes you dumber.
And science headlines, all of the headlines
are like this, but the headlines about science are often the worst
the worst kinds of lying
for the sake of producing
a sensationalized account of something
in order to acquire
attention, share value,
viralization, these kinds of things.
It's really interesting, there are these little plants here
and they have these seed pods
and the seed pods are incredibly well adapted to sticking to things.
And when I walk even near these plants
there's like 50 little seed pods stuck to my
pants.
I find them annoying, but I'm also astonished
at the sort of biotech, the technology of nature
the technologies of nature, especially the reproductive technologies of nature
which are certainly fascinating to most of us
in that we participate in them somehow directly ourselves.
Even if we do not
have children ourselves
the reproductive technologies of nature are involved in nearly all
of the processes that keep us alive moment to moment.
Our bone marrow produces immune cells
and cells reproduce
by division primarily.
At least our animal cells do. Bacterial cells have a kind of sex, but it's very
complex and often involves direct
transfer of genes from one organism to another.
I think there's seven bacterial sexes if I remember correctly.
Anyway, back to the climate change thing.
There have been cycles of climactic transformation.
Is that right? Climactic?
I don't know, I don't think so. No, it's like climatological or something.
There have been cycles of transformation in the climate over the history of the world
and some of these may have to do with transformations in solar output
or the
intra-solar context that the Earth is floating in
and the extra-solar context of the interstellar
environment. There's so much we don't know about all of this.
So what we do know is that there have been radical transformations
of climate in the past. Some of them were triggered
by specific terrestrial and or extraterrestrial
events, comet strikes, methane releases, gas
transformation, changes in the homeostatic
activity of the
living part of the environment, and also changes in the
homeostatic activity of the non-living aspects of the environment, lava flow,
water, aerosols
and so on. All this stuff. So some people will
argue that the idea of
anthropogenic climate change, that is, climate change
catalyzed specifically by human activity, is unproven.
Because we can't tell whether or not
we're in a cycle of natural change.
I think this argument is largely specious.
But I also won't
dismiss the idea that there are cycles
and there's no reason to believe
for me, in fact there are many reasons to believe the opposite,
that the anthropogenic
activity that is transforming the climate
is not dovetailing with
natural cycles of transformation to create a double whammy,
where right when it's most
crucial that the humans pay attention and not obliterate the environment
and fill the air with poison and CO2
right when it becomes most crucial that they do that, they do a bunch more
of that than they ordinarily do or were doing before, which is certainly
going on. And then you have like a double
crisis. You have an aspect of climate change that
is non-anthropogenic and then later
on top of that you have seven other aspects that are.
And that seems likely to me. I think that's actually what's going on.
I think there's both natural climactic transformation, climatological
transformation, and human induced
problems. And the human induced problems certainly seem to
me to be obvious and severe. There's no way you can
wipe out most of the anciently conserved ecologies, especially including
the oceans. And then, you know, just be
you're just homeostatically fine afterwards, right? Unless all of the homeostasis
is coming from non-living aspects of the world, which it seems
impossible, that's true. And by the way, homeostasis means
the capacity to maintain a relatively stable
environmental situation over time and also absorb
shocks and store
the capacity to
re-stabilize when shocks aren't happening.
This is something that's been going on for millions of years. All of the organisms on Earth are involved
in it, including us. We happen to be a particularly
bad actor. Though there have been other sort of bad actors in the past, apparently
depending on how you read the situation. Not too many.
So
I think that I'm going to say
briefly, I think that the idea of climate change is a red herring that's
hiding something vastly more important for all
of life on Earth, and especially for humans, because we are the most
we are one of the most delicate animals on the planet. We might not be the most, but we're
extremely delicate. Our complexity
and our reliance on technology to survive in situations
that we would otherwise perish makes us profoundly
susceptible to disruption. And by that I mean extinction.
But also other kinds of disruption
relational disruption, cognitive disruption
metabolic disruption that doesn't necessarily wipe us out, but will render
us miserable or helpless.
So we are our complexity
and our absolute dependence on technology. Like you'll notice I have no fur
I can grow some fingernails, but I don't have claws
I don't have venom. I'm not
I'm an actually delicate, really complex animal.
The other animals tend to be much more
robust in terms of their capacity to deal with say being
outside without a shelter
or living in a dugout shelter
or some other kind of shelter.
The other organisms can live freely in the world
we mostly require in most places in the world
we require some kind of shelter to survive and not just shelter
but heating and cooling.
So we being the delicate animal
it's extremely reckless for us to
and of course it's not necessarily me and you who are doing this. It's the collectives
it's the way our cultures, I hesitate to call them
that, function.
We are a product oriented, profit and loss oriented
our species lives in a world of abstractions
on the whole and part of the reason that's true is because
our world was so
biologically luxurious
that once you had an animal like us that could create
invent actually commodities by killing things
and turn that into profit, money and abstraction of value
you're sort of on a descending like
you're falling off a cliff
where that process just keeps
self-amplifying its results in the environment
and not so very long ago it seemed impossible
that we could for example obliterate the oceans
or destroy the Amazon rainforest
and perhaps it was not so long ago relatively unlikely
say 200, 300 years ago
although even that long ago we were
the city builders, the non-indigenous peoples, had technologies capable of wiping out
for example the buffalo or the bison
in the Americas
which again seemed an absurd idea to the indigenous people who lived here then
it's like trying to wipe out the mountains
but of course we did it and we didn't do it for any good reason
we did it mostly just to fuck with the indigenous people and make life a lot harder for them
we didn't need to kill all the buffalo, we didn't need to kill all the bears
but we pretty much did
us white colonials apparently
though we're not the only guilty party
who now had nothing directly to do with that
so it's not on us, it's on
and I question the necessity
of taking on the ethical, the historic ethical baggage
of some people simply because I am of the same ethnicity as them
or I live on the same continent that they
stole or something like this
I'm not going to dismiss it as trivial
but
yeah
that's a quagmire I'm going to dodge at the moment
because if I don't I won't be able to get to my central theses
so I think what we're seeing is
the dovetailing of
catastrophes and opportunism
some of the aspects of the catastrophes are natural
but not all of them can be because in a situation where human activity transforms the environment
transformations in the environment have something to do with human activity
in general
there may be some few transformations that we have little or nothing to do with
but those are by far the exception
now here's what I wanted to actually get into today a little bit
I want to talk about
a branch of knowledge
or a facet of knowledge
that has become prevalent
since the onset of our capacity to do statistical analysis
now I want to be clear that
our capacity lies in distant history
because most people can tell the difference between one apple and two
and so there's a kind of very
simplistic statistical analysis that has always been with us
relatively simplistic
that has
been a determining factor
where we understand what is true or likely
or how we relate with
numeric value
what I want to talk about today is a problem with statistics
and also with knowledge
and this problem is about to get a lot worse for modern humans
because knowledge
is an ontological process
rather than an epistemological or ontological process
epistemology is
the branch of philosophy concerned with how do we know something
and ontology is the branch of philosophy concerned with what things are
what is this identity
and
now we're more and more in the media
I see refutations of arguments
that claim in the refutation
there is no evidence that thus and such is occurring
and I see this particularly
commonly in
situations where a concern
of one of the vaccines one or more of the vaccines is involved
and it's become
to dismiss such concerns with the claim
that there is no evidence
that the concern
is valid
there is no evidence
that gravity is holding me to the surface of the earth at the moment
the reason there is no evidence is that no one has examined it
in this moment with me right here
anything that you don't examine produces no evidence
so there is a trope about this
absence of evidence is not evidence of absence
but it's also a rhetorical problem
to claim to refute a concern
by stating that there is no evidence
to support it does not imply
in any way that
a rigorous search for that evidence has been conducted
and none was found you can have absence of evidence
simply by not looking right or by hiding findings
or not announcing findings
there's all kinds of ways to have absence of evidence
and absence of evidence is an incredibly crude
method
for asserting or refuting something
it's not that there are situations in which absence of evidence
could be part of the
question about validity identity
but in the cases I'm seeing it
it's very suspicious and it looks like a new way
it looks like the
para-human intelligence collectives, the media, institutions, governments
and so on
have found like a new weapon
of absence of evidence argument against common sense
and against sensibility and against knowledge
because what we actually want is reasonably justified
theory examination of the problems
and the concerns, careful, efficient
effective, responsible examination
and then public accessibility of findings
right now
it's a water plane
it flew over earlier and when I was meditating
and I wondered what it was
of course someone could say
Darren how do you know what that is, it could be disguised
just wearing the disguise of a water plane, that could be a UFO
just with a holographic projection of a water plane outside
and a loudspeaker
how do you know, this is an epistemological
preoccupation
so I'm quite concerned about this
absence of evidence argument because when evidence is suppressed
or not sought, naturally there will be an absence of it
but that doesn't prove anything, in fact the opposite of its claim can easily
be true and there just be an absence of evidence that's either intentional
or the result of irresponsibility
or the evidence is being hidden
now this is part of, this concern is part of what produces
conspiracy theories and part of what makes them contagious
everyone is aware that none of
the assertions
are complete, that not all of the evidence is in
that some of it hasn't been examined, that there's things we haven't looked at
and that produces the
inclination to
well let's say that is generative of such
inclinations, there's lots of things that produce them
including cognitive defects
or cognitive misbehavior
delusion
the problem of isolated minds
trying to understand or explain phenomenon that are too complex
for them to reasonably
reflect their thought, all of these things contribute
to conspiracism and surely much
even in people whose minds are
wildly delusional, people who are severely schizophrenic
and other kinds of people, there's often some kind of seed
of actual truth
somewhere in their bizarre, sometimes bizarre
situations with what things are, what people
are doing, what's going on and so forth
so even in delusion there's often some kind of a seed in there if we want to look carefully
of something that's not being properly attended by the common people who
are not as disoriented as the schizophrenic and so on
in any case
the reason that I talked
about absence of evidence is first of all that I'm encountering this argument
consistently, regularly, all day long, every day
in discussions about the vaccine and people's concerns about it
the concerns need to be taken very fucking seriously
we're using an untried vaccine on hundreds of millions of people
more than one of them, there seems to be little or no safety data
on lipid nanoparticles, I am fully vaccinated by the way
and there are concerns
about the
rate of production of the Mimic spike protein
and where that goes in the body and what the metabolic and or
immunological long term effects of that are
none of these questions are getting answered, but every time someone raises a concern about them
we're simply told, well there's no evidence that this is a problem
it's not true, there's all kinds of evidence that there are
problems, surely thousands of people have died
immediately after being vaccinated, say within a week
maybe tens of thousands, possibly more
some other vastly larger cohort has suffered relatively
severe health problems that will be
some of which will be long term problems for them
the VAERS database, which is one of the most poorly assembled databases
I've ever seen, accessing that data is a hugely
difficult mess
and other data gathering processes
that resemble it are still in early phases
and one can always say
that just because someone died
a few days after getting the vaccine doesn't mean the vaccine killed them
sure, things are multi-causal
but the idea that the vaccines
are safe, that's just a lie
this is a straight up, bald faced
lie, they're not safe
unless we decide that
that's what safety means
some people will be killed, some people will be
catastrophically injured, other people will be fine
that's not a reasonable definition of safe for me
and the problem here goes to statistics
and how we interpret statistics over cohorts
and this is actually, now I'm getting to the root of my concern here
so apparently
as long as the percentages of people
who die outright, or are permanently
injured and impaired
crippled and or otherwise metabolically harmed
as long as those percentages are low enough, it's safe
well what's low enough, low enough for who
low enough theoretically?
because there are no theoretical people, every person who gets a medical treatment
of any kind is a specific individual person
they are not people in general
so whether something is safe or not
is not reasonably derived
from statistics
medical persons, there's never been a general human being
if there were, then we could say it is safe
but since there aren't, we cannot say it is safe
we must not say it is safe unless we put it is safe
with an asterisk, well for you in particular
we might be just lying, because we don't know how you
in particular will respond to this medical treatment
science and medicine are the result
of statistical analyses
of clinical studies, research
and data
and so, in this sense
they are generalizations over populations
and situations
specific individuals or situations
the findings may be completely fucking wrong
will be completely fucking wrong, in other words we will have no trouble
finding an individual or situation in which this finding
is wrong, right, yet over time
what happens is the theories and the statistics come to be
taken as authoritative over cohorts
which is the only thing that can be authoritative over
we have the same problem with individuals in medicine and science that we have in insurance
you can't tell exactly how long someone is going to live or when they will die
what you can do is determine the statistical probability
of their life spans
now that that's out of the way, I want to talk a little bit about a problem, another problem with statistics
so the first problem is, statistics are generalizations over cohorts
but in reality, you're going to have a really hard time locating a cohort
like a cohort is
mostly an
imagined population, right?
so if we do a bunch of tests on mice, which we often do
you know
Brett Weinstein, Eric's brother discovered that the mice we were doing
on pharmaceutical, we were evaluating pharmaceuticals on
had inadvertently been bred
with extremely long telomeres
and mice with extremely long telomeres can heal injuries
that other animals can't
and probably for, I don't know, 40 or 50 years, maybe a little less, maybe a little more
all of the mice that we were doing our pharmaceutical testing on had these long telomeres
and they were called wild type mice, meaning these are regular old mice
when they weren't actually wild type mice at all
they had been bred in a breeding program that preferred
to breed only younger mice
the specific methods and protocols used by the program produced mice
with long telomeres
and nobody figured this out until Brett
and actually they did something else with it that won them a Nobel Prize
the mice are no longer being produced that way
but Brett's work was never recognized
essentially he got fucked
I mean he should have got a Nobel Prize for that
so you can see that it's easy for us to
get shit wrong in science, right?
we produced that actually caused severe damage to hearts, heart tissue
some of the antibiotics we used
we didn't catch that because the mice with long telomeres could easily heal the damage
so when we subjected them to these medications we saw no obvious indication
of harm and humans it wrecked their fucking hearts
I think it was
Erythromycin was one of them, if I remember correctly
funny how mice is even in the name Erythromycin
that's the kind of thing a schizophrenic would notice
Erythromycin, right? It's even worse
so statistically from lab
research the drugs were safe
in fact the drugs were catastrophically harmful
so the research said they're safe, the actual application of them proved to be harmful
it took us a long time to figure that out because we presumed they were safe
based on research that we fucked up
by using the wrong mice or mice that we had accidentally
engineered to be extremely robust
and capable of healing things that other ordinary wild type animals
would never survive
so this is one problem with statistics
it's about cohorts but none of us is a cohort
each of us, it's weird, we are at once members of classes
so I am a member of the class of organisms
we just call homo sapiens
but my actual body and what happens to my body
does not depend on what happens to cohorts, it depends on what happens to me
personally, individually
so when we make predictions about cohorts and then we apply them to individuals
what we're going to find out is
we're going to see the error
ratio in our predictions rise dramatically
in most cases of application
if we go looking for the data
because we think the mice testing was sufficient or whatever
for whatever reason we have, we don't go looking for that data
we're not going to notice the mistake and in fact you can make money this way
you can make a lot of money this way, you can make mountains of money this way
by hiding data and doing partial
statistics, by obfuscating
aspects of concern
certainly with GMOs, pesticides
round up and so on, lots of this was done
corporations are famous for lying their heads off
to make millions of dollars while wiping out generations of human
beings or living places because they're not human
corporations, they don't have to have a conscience
their whole goal is to survive and propagate
their capacity to turn living
beings and places into numbers inside machines
most of the time that requires killing the living beings and places
whether you do it slowly or all at once, kind of up to you
both work, both are effective
why not do both and find some other things you can do where you give benefit here
and catastrophic harm over here, you hide the harm and amplify your discussion of the benefit
there's all kinds of ways to lie about this kind of thing
so let's get back for a moment to statistics
because
almost all of our theories and most of our science
fundamentally depends on probabilistic arguments
and on statistical arguments
there's a standard deviation from the theory
there's an error ratio or
there's a measurement of how often errors occur or things we
can't account for within the theory or the mechanics of the theory
there's various features like this of
clinical arguments
and theories and protocols and understandings
but one of the problems with statistics about
things like, so statistics are involved in nearly every research paper
that uses math
and the arguments are made statistically and probability is often
an aspect of that argument
and yet
these two features, statistics and probability
only very incompletely capture the phenomenon
that we're gathering them about
they never capture the entire phenomenon, there's nothing that captures the whole phenomenon because the whole phenomenon
is all of everything and all of time
in order to get any kind of data you have to begin by narrowing the scope of your inquiry
so that you can gather meaningful data
about specific variables that you can analyze
and to some degree control
sort of why physics often requires
some aspects of physics often require very low temperatures to do experiments in
because we need things to stop bobbing around in
the quantum or the atomic
world that we're examining or trying to manipulate
successfully
so
in the beginning of most clinical research
we have to throw most of the universe away
and focus on something very specific
that we can distinguish from the background very clearly
and to some degree control at least in terms of our capacity
to observe transformations in the object
or facet that we are concerned with
and that means that first step
is ordinarily dismissed
we don't acknowledge
it's rare that it is acknowledged that most of everything has been thrown away
to allow us to even begin to pursue
a line of questioning
from which we can derive a theorem which we can then test
so for example
I am absolutely
certain that something resembling telepathy exists
it's just blatantly obvious to me
it's not because I want to believe in telepathy
though perhaps I might want that
rather it is that
some weeks ago I had a dream
in the morning in which one of my
credit cards had been compromised
this has never happened before even one time in my life I've never had a dream about my credit cards
don't go around dreaming about my cards
turned out that on the specific day I had the dream one of my credit cards was
compromised
the number of times in my life that a credit card has had
a charge that I did not initiate is two
I'm incapable of believing that's a coincidence
well not incapable
I'm disinclined to believe that
that's a coincidence
I've had thousands of experiences where
it's very clear to me that mine's communicated
and that I was aware of the concern of another being
distant from me that I had no reason to be aware of that concern
in any case in clinical experiments rather than understanding that
telepathy may depend on intimacy
and shared mutual concern
they just got people together and gave them cards and go like you hold this card and read it
just look at the card and see if the other person can guess the card and this kind of shit
that's the wrong context to determine if telepathy
exists you might find some unique individuals
or situations in which that context could produce an authentic
telepathic result but it would be rare because the nature
of telepathy as it exists in nature in my experience
has a lot to do either with intimacy
or accidental a kind of intimacy that's accidental
both
so the experiments that found
no evidence of telepathy were malformed
and that's why they were designed in such a way as to exclude
the contexts in which telepathy most often occurs
therefore their finding of no evidence is inconclusive
and this is the problem with statistics if your scope is too narrow
or if you have the wrong orientation or you're leaving something out that's absolutely crucial
because you've excluded most of reality then your statistics are fucking meaningless
they're just lies right you're gonna get the wrong idea
you're gonna have the wrong theory or the wrong dismissal of some other theory
so you can see the problem there
if we don't include the right kinds of
aspects that relate to the subject that we're exploring in research
then we get results and interpret them
well we misinterpret the results right as either conclusively denying
the existence of something or conclusively asserting some other thing
right like the vaccines are safe impossible
for anyone to fucking know that there were no human trials
the human trial was conducted on us right out in the world
so the trial is underway how can you announce that something's safe
when the trial is underway it's just lying
right and this is the politicization of knowledge and science and medicine
and that is fucking deadly and it's gonna get deadlier
as the process proceeds that's something that we as
common human beings need to not only resist we need to establish
the opposite of that because if that keeps going on it's gonna wreck everything
right there won't be anything like knowledge anymore it's just gonna be
a sort of um it's just gonna be propaganda
and propaganda about science is lethal to living things
the other problem with statistics is that natural phenomenon is so complex
that there's no way you can catch up to them with statistics it'll probably be
10 to 15 years before we know what the effects of inoculating before we know
anything if we know anything ever about the effects of inoculating
hundreds of millions of people with these vaccines and by that time
we'll be looking in 10 to 15 years we'll be looking
at the data from now right so that data will be 10 to 15 years old
this is the problem with statistics they cannot catch up to the complexity
or pace of the transformations of the phenomenon they examine
right there was some kind of study about how many
birds are killed by the transmission of electric power
and if I remember right it was something like I may not and the study was like
in the 90s it was something like in the United States
400 million birds were killed by the transmission of electric power but
those statistics come only from birds found near power lines
right and lots and lots of
the birds found near power lines well actually what I mean is
lots and lots of birds that died from
electricity
or its transmission their corpses are not
found near power lines their corpses may not be found
at all right predators eat them they might die
far from the line a bird is this pretty small thing
it can blow away so they found 300 million birds
near power dead near power lines that
autopsy demonstrated was
you know the cause of death was electrocution
that statistic is misleading
what we would then know is that at least
300 million birds were died that way
and then we'd need some further data to determine how far off that number
was what is the you know what's the error range on that
number between what and what
between what number and what other number
should we really be thinking about the damage
as having affected
the bird population so the first thing
statistics never entirely capture the phenomenon that we're producing them about
our purposes in gathering statistics influence
the statistics we gather and the theories we draw from them
they will and then also they never catch up to the pace of transformation
in the world because the world even in even very simplistic aspects of the
world are incredibly difficult to reasonably capture in statistics
that doesn't mean that the statistics aren't valuable or that none of them are
accurate it's just that we should
it's very important that we understand their limitations
otherwise we're prone to mis-evaluate them and to draw
unjustified conclusions from them
I remember when I first
realized what I'm talking about I was blown away
I was like oh my god the statistics we use
determine causality, identity
function, result
these are very
fragile assays
that are prone
in many situations
to wildly mislead us
about what's going on what causes something
what the effect of something is all of these things
right
so
I want
why am I so concerned about this lots of people would ask me
I'm concerned about it because
our institutions
and the knowledge that they
propagate among the common people
is often has statistical components
these components are made
by human beings with specific purposes
and those purposes are to support or refute
arguments, arguments about meaning, arguments about
values, arguments about identity, arguments
about cause, arguments about effect
and if we as common human beings do not understand the limitations
of statistics and are unfamiliar with these limitations
because we've never had any reason to examine them or to realize their
limitations then we are easily manipulated
and placed in a position of essentially servitude to propaganda
and or disinformation
and that's a tragedy I'd like to remedy
not just avoid I'd like to remedy it
I think we can build systems
information systems I know we can do it
that are capable and empower us to vet arguments
especially arguments involving statistics and math
so that we can at a glance determine
the likely validity of some given argument
by analyzing its origins
who profits when it's propagated
whether it's a novel
or copying some other idea or situation
there's lots of variables that we can examine
electronically and not just with machines
but with human beings with human minds so that
we can produce verity profiles for electronic
information and that's something we should have been doing 20 years ago
and it's part of a project that I've envisioned
called the Knowledge Amp
one part of that project is a verity sentinel that would be able to give us
a profile for any argument
or piece of informational content that we encounter
on the internet or even in books
but in any case I just found it so astonishing
when I realized and actually it might have been
the argument about birds like the 300 million birds were killed I was like wait a minute
in the research paper it said
this statistic was produced by counting the birds found dead
by electrocution near power lines
certainly that's not the whole cohort of birds so
the error bars on that research must
it must be much more than 300 million birds
that in the year that the research was conducted
and yet the research itself did not mention that
now this doesn't mean we can't trust statistical analysis
or probabilistic arguments it means two things
the statistics are always incomplete and they can be easily manipulated
for nefarious purposes or just out of ignorance or clumsiness
and then secondly probabilistic arguments
don't necessarily apply to specific individuals
those arguments have to do with generalizations over cohorts
there's no such thing as a general person or animal or ecology or anything
except in theory
so the probabilistic arguments only partly apply to
specific individuals and this needs to be clear to everyone
who thinks about probability as it relates
to science, health, life, intelligence and so on
so these are some of my concerns that I had today
and
I'm about to wrap up my video for the moment
so grateful to those of you who pay attention to my work
and I'd be even more grateful if you would share it
give me a like, like sign in and like my video on youtube
or support me on patreon if you would like to see more
of this kind of work
I'm going to keep making videos whether I get any supporters or not
so you can be sure that my videos will always be free
I don't run ads in my videos
on purpose so that everybody can experience them ad
free but I do hope that those people who
are financially well off enough to be able to contribute
even a dollar a month would be great
any sum of money would be helpful to support the work that I'm trying to do
but just be sure I'll continue to do it whether it's supported or not
and I'm very grateful to those of you who enjoy my videos
and enjoy
the capacity to open our minds, develop our intelligence
learn to think and speak
in ways that are more clear than those
we've commonly been subjected to and learn to see through some of
the charades and traps both of our modernity and also
our relationships with language and knowledge. Thank you for joining me
may you be safe, happy
enjoy well being and peace of mind
my life for now. Thank you
