Okay, I want to go back to your question. What did the humans contribute to the bundle and what was the agreement? What were the agreements also? Yeah, that's that's where I want to go. Okay, because I recognize, yeah, I was thinking in terms of the the tangible bundle, which would be the scalps.
Like the humans, the humans robe is in there too, in, in essence, but, but yeah, the agreement in, like, what happened was there wasn't going to be an agreement, like the, the, the animals had stolen this, this human's wife.
This human.
What's so happy.
The white grass was his name, which is still a family name here.
They had stolen it, the animals had stolen his wife, the beavers in particular charmed her taking her away.
And he was left with a, with a, with an infant son who had no way to feed.
And he in turn stole the beavers favorite grandchild, young pup, albino pup, special pup, and was holding it in ransom.
And there was some negotiations that took place, but ultimately then the beavers called on all of their, like all the animals that rely on them, which are a lot of different animals.
In one way or another, they're connected with the beaver with the beavers. And so they called on all of their friends to come and participate and they brought their bundle.
And the guy's wife back.
And they're, and transferred him their bundle, which was seven predators that were dangerous to beavers bears, wolves, eagles.
There's seven of them.
Not one, there's seven of them in that original bundle.
And, um,
And because
Matoya be
He had, he had had these like,
They weren't dreams.
He cried and he cried himself to sleep every night without his wife, that his young wife.
And
Then this old man was coming to see him.
He didn't know where the old man came from spirit spirit being was coming to see him and tell him
Luffy
Holy
The old man was telling me your wife isn't dead.
This is what's happened. You know, she got too lonely because he was he was a ridiculously skilled trap.
But it required that he spent all his time with nature.
And he was he was
Not
Spending the time with his with his girl
And he wouldn't let her bring her sister.
She was like, can I bring my sister over to the camp?
Because
She could keep me company.
No, no.
Too many people up here.
Spook the animals.
Got to keep a low profile, you know,
Can I go like stay with my parents and stuff
While you're up here
Visit with my parents and they're in their class. Hey
I want you here with me. I want you here with me.
I want you here with me. I want you here with me.
And so she got, you know,
Bored and lonely
And the beavers noticed this and then there was a be a bachelor beaver
Kind of like
Transformed himself to look like a like a handsome young man
Charmed her to go with him and eventually like
Led her.
What's up? What's up, Jimmy?
You want to go out?
I think they think there's something outside.
All the dogs are barking and stuff.
It's okay. It's okay, you guys.
No, there's nothing out there.
Look, I'll look out the door.
I'm looking out.
There's nobody.
Just a snowy neighborhood.
All right, go to bed.
You guys chill up.
So
So
There wasn't going to be a much of a negotiation because
Like they brought this bundle to him
That they considered very sacred
And they brought his wife back and they were like all we want is our pup
And he and he refused
And he refused based on what this old man the spirit man had been telling him. Hey
He held on to that pup
And then
This M money see
The order
Addressed the other animals and said
The nerve of this human being
Money to do
They only just arrived here
And
He's making Mike
Your most sacred bundles not enough for him
You know look at the sky
And this is where this is where right right came into the story. It was through the order
The order was ready to dance and he is like look at you know look at this character sitting here. He's soft. He's slow. He's weak
Can't fly
Can't run worth a damn
Can't fend for himself
Yeah, why don't we just all gang up on him and eat him be done with it
You know
And this is this is when the
The elder beaver
Kind of stepped in because the animals were considering it
And
It was it was an obvious solution
You know he wasn't accepting their offer
It was a good offer
Fuck this guy
You know in who is this guy like he's got you know nothing
So
But the elder beaver said okay
Yeah, we can like you know
But the elder beaver said okay. Yeah, we can like it'd be easy to kill this guy. You're right
It's nothing like as far as like a physical challenge to us. It's nothing
We'll kill this guy like a heartbeat but
The other humans are gonna learn about this
There's a lot of other humans
They're gonna learn about this
Because when you do something like that
You can't keep it secret
It's gonna come out
No
So
We could go that route
And be done with this tonight right right here right now
But that's not really what I called you here for
Like I need you guys's help
I think rather than
Establishing that as our future
In relation to these humans these people
We should
Maybe help them
Compensate
For some of their shortcomings, you know, they're not really adapted to live here. We've been living here a long time
Give them some of our knowledge about how to
Live here and live here well in relation to each other
How to like all the problems that we have
They're
How to like all the all the course stuff hey how to live here it's a way of life in this place and
If we teach them that
Then in turn they will have respect for us
And they won't just kill us
Because they're afraid when they see us
They'll kill us some of us to eat us
But
They'll have respect for us. We've lived here a lot longer all of our
All of our you know the things that we've learned
You know estimato we've embodied
They haven't embodied any they're born and they don't have any that instinct stuff
So we will get we'll share with them some of what we have and they practice that in the future
They'll have that
And and and we'll live respectfully so that was what the humans ultimately signed up. Well, that was what
The animals ultimately signed on for
You know
You don't really get a sense of whether he was a philosopher or not
Or a politician or anything he was a trapper right but he was he was told by this old man in these in these encounters
Not to give that pop-up not to agree to the to the whole thing until
Until there was a sign
That he would recognize
That it was okay to do that hey
And that did come at the end because all the animals gave things
Gave their robes gave their songs
And then the old beavers, you know again, he's like okay like look at this this giant this giant bundle
And we've given you so much of our knowledge and stuff right all I want is my pup
And and
But three oppie didn't feel like he'd seen what he needed to see
Like whatever was supposed to be his cute
So there's still there's still people here who haven't given anything
And there was there was these two people like each one beside the door to like everybody that came to that
Transform themselves to look human-esque like that's part of the story too
If you really tell the story in a good black foot way you describe it
Describe, you know the different animal beings that came in there, but they tried to make themselves look human-esque and they were grotesque
They freaked out
Motoyapi so much he couldn't he couldn't
Hardly bear to look at them because they were so like frightening
Hmm, you know
And there was these two
There were there were on either side of the lodge door
That had these robes pulled up over their heads
And
Those two haven't I
Don't know what's going on there, you know they haven't given anything to the bundle
Who are they and then they pulled back their
Their robes and the and the one was that old man that had been coming to him
In the night and
Then the other one was the old woman
And they started singing their songs to give to the bundle
And when they started singing their songs then it became immediately apparent that this is the Sun and the Moon
Not totally and Koko Miki song
Yeah
And they they gave a lot of songs
And then when they were done
Koko Miki some the night the night Sun opened the
Lodge door and called in this boy
Who brought in these two animals that nobody had ever seen
One of them was black and one of them was white
The male was black the female was white
and
He led these two animals in and he said that this is you know he started singing songs and this was
The Morning Star of course and
And what he gave to the bundle were the dogs
The
Link's tail is also like the actual person who embodies the Morning Star in the ceremony. Where's the link's tail?
But he brought that he brought domesticated dogs
Nobody'd ever known them before and he said this this this
This black dog this male dog
Will haul your bundle when you move
From camp to camp you make a travel and he'll carry a bundle this female dog is gonna make more dogs and
You're gonna give these dogs to the humans these dogs are gonna protect all the humans
They're gonna look out for you whenever any dangers approaching
They're gonna alert you
They're gonna get between you and the danger
And that's that's what he gave
and that was when
Matoyapi
Said that
He had got
What was needed
And he agreed to the to the treaty
And he would share with the humans what they'd you know what had gone on
And he would change his name from Matoyapi
To not don't see an EP
The Sun came down
Brings brings down the Sun
Basic yeah
Not don't see an EP which
Became another famous name for beaver men
Now
Alan my my my elders
Grandfather was
One of the what was the last
That I know not don't see an EP the last brings down the Sun
But he won't be the last there'll be there'll be others
So that's what the humans gave to the bundle
That's that's that's kind of like that's a that's
More than I expected to talk about
What a bundle is but you have any questions
I was trying to tell a Harvard story
I know we're gonna get back to Matt
But um
The human gave
The beaver pup back
The human gave the beaver pup back the human gave
The human gave
Uh
Like
And that goat sees
Like mutual respect
Before this is a guy who his whole operation his whole life
Had been
I'm finding the fanciest looking animals
Killing them
Preparing their skins
And
You know selling it to people trading it bartering and stuff
Like all he was was a it was a it was a killing machine
And very inserted into
The natural world
And it wasn't
You know for food
It was just for things like robes and stuff you know
No
Just for getting the fanciest
You know the albinos and the mixed
Color patterns and different animals and things
You know
That's what he was known for
He he was
The trapper extraordinaire
That was the original beaver man
And he gave the pup
And he gave respect
What about the contributions of the sun and moon these are not his contributions
Nope
Those come in on this
Those were those were things he was waiting for he was right those came in on the side of what the animals would offer to him
Right
Okay
So the pop and mutual respect
Which isn't minor not trivial anything else
No
That's basically that's basically it the mutual respect is the big thing the pup is just a symbol just like his just like his son
Who is not able to feed without his mom
Keeping the beaver pup from his parents is is endangering the future generations
Yeah
This is what we're talking about
Yes
Yes
They're just symbols
Future generations
Yes yes yes the children
Yeah
So in order to save the children the future generations we must agree to have a mutual respect where we can coexist
Yes
Us with the animals
And the mainstream culture today does not have that
It's more than that though too unless I don't understand something or I'm making something out
Can I go on a tangent?
Yes
A little one
I work with rattlesnakes
That's a that's a that's probably a
Out of my income my annual income
Probably
A tenth of it comes from
Wrangling rattlesnakes
In the heart of Blackfoot territory in Lethbridge where I live this is like this is like the nexus of this is you know
This is the heart of Blackfoot territory and there's a huge rattlesnake population prayer rattlesnakes and I'm the guy
That gets called when a rattlesnake shows up
In somebody's yard and the human being
Need something to be done about it
You know like you're not allowed here to kill snakes it's against the law
I know in the states you're still allowed to kill snakes
Almost everywhere
Here in Alberta where I live
You are not allowed to kill any of our natural snake species you will get up to a thirty thousand dollar fine in five years in prison
Wow
It's it's a it's a criminal offense
So given that you're not allowed to kill a snake if you can't just coexist with one
Real easy then you end up calling the rattlesnake guy and that's me I took on that position
Because I've been around snakes on my life
But also because of the beaver bundle because I thought this was a way to kind of honor
My role as a beaver man and the rattlesnakes this is why I want to go on this tangent the rattlesnakes I find are the
Best symbol in my mind of that treaty that was made
Yes, yes, I know where you're going and please keep going there
With the beaver bundle
Yes
With white grass
Why are they the best symbol?
Because there are venomous snakes all over the earth
But only here
In the Americas do you find this thing called a rattlesnake
And a rattlesnake co-evolved with human presence here
It's a it's not a it's not an old old thing having having rattles on a snake
It's something that coin co-evolved with humans
And
I think, you know, if it was a situation where
Cultures demonized so to speak the snakes like the main
Not even so to speak just straight up demonize them
Well, yeah, well obviously Christian culture does
But there's other there's others cultures that just are snake haters
But don't necessarily demonize them. They're just like because they don't have rattlesnakes
They have these other snakes to just fight them with no warning
Right. We have rattlesnakes. Why do we have rattlesnakes?
Because we agreed to coexist with the animals
In all of the animals including the rattlesnakes
There's no way that rattle evolves in a cultural situation with humans
They're going to respond negatively to that rattle and just kill the snake
When they're warned
That rattle only evolves if it has the effect that it needs to have
Which is to say leave me alone and people, you know back off
That doesn't happen everywhere else in the world because everywhere else in the world they don't have this agreement
Maybe, you know
Yeah
Let me rephrase what you said
And now
You know, we've had hundreds of years now of a different cultural influence here in the Americas
And we are starting to see pockets of rattlesnakes that are changing
There's a Mojave rattlesnake
Where a lot of the young snakes are being born with a crooked tail that can't rattle
And there are prairie rattlesnakes, the same species that are here in black
There are prairie rattlesnakes, the same species that are here in blackfoot territory
Just a couple provinces east of here in Manitoba, there's a pocket of prairie rattlesnakes
Where the newborns are being born without a nub to form a rattle on
And herpetologists do believe that this is because of the persecution of the rattlesnake
Of the snake in general
And that, you know, now having the rattle is evolutionarily or natural selection wise
Not a good thing here because of the cultural system of the humans
In other words, so the rattle where it doesn't warn the humans off successfully goes away
Yeah, I mean, if the rattle goes off and people say, oh, there's a snake there, kill it
Then the rattle goes away
Yeah, over time
Yeah, over time, that's the way natural selection works
Blackfoot knowledge is very aligned with some of the core mainstream science and ecology knowledge too
And natural selection is not a, you know, it all plays in there
I think that's why we have the rattlesnakes here is because natural selection playing into a eco-social situation, a context where there's an agreement
We're not just going to kill something just because it's here, you know, just because it shows up
There are Blackfoot protocols around, like if a bird enters into your house, it flies in on its own kind of thing
People would kill it
And
I think that's just because of the, you know, the situation with, if you're living in a teepee, which is always open, it's never, never entirely closed
And you start, and you give grant to any birds to come in
You're going to have a problem
Same with anything, like if you, you know, like there is a beaver, beaver story about a mouse
That started taking up residence in this guy's bundle and he had a conflict
Like I'm not supposed to have a problem with the animals
Right
But here's this mouse dug into the side of my bundle
What do I do?
And he ultimately decided to let the mouse live there
And the mouse would go and raid other people's tobacco stores in the night and bring them back to his bundle
And so it turned out being a good thing. There's some songs associated with the mouse
But, you know, I myself experimented as a beaver man
Let mice come into my modern house
It's not a good idea
They might not bring you tobacco
No, and I think in the past letting birds into your teepee was not a good idea
You know?
Yeah
But other than that kind of a thing, that little space, that's a controlled space
Right
Yeah, other than that little space, we're not allowed to kill things other than for food
You know?
Yeah, or, you know, like there's plants that are used for different things and stuff, of course
But, you know, you have to have a good reason to be taking out some life, not just because you're afraid of it or just because it's an ice or whatever, you know?
Like what we do today
So I'm going to recap this and then we're going to start again
Okay
The rattlesnakes are a good example of the agreement because
They are an excellent example of the agreement because they have rattles
Right, and so they could, if they don't have rattles, just simply wait till you get close enough to them
Maybe you don't notice them, maybe you're afraid of them, whatever, then just bite you
But because they have rattles, they alert you and they ask
They've got another step, like all of the venomous snakes, they're very first self-defense camouflage
Yes
So they will just sit very still and hope that you just pass by
Right
But if that doesn't work and you don't just pass by and you're going to injure them, threaten them
If you come, I mean, you have to come within four or five inches of a snake to get bit in reality
Yeah
So if you come that close to it, that means it's life is threatened
And it's going to bite you
Now rattlesnake has one more step in mitigating that conflict
That you don't find anywhere else
You find it in North America
Because I think this is the agreement in North America that we're not just going to kill each other for being there
Under that circumstance, the rattles can evolve
If you don't have that circumstance, then all it does is alert the human before it gets bit to the snake's presence and the human hates the snake and kills the snake
Yes
Alright, let me try to recap this one more time
So the rattlesnake is an example of the agreement
It gives you a chance to remember to respect the animal because it warns you, thoughtably warns you
In a way that everything recognizes this sound
Very distinctive sound
And so where that treaty has been well-kept, where that agreement has been kept, the rattlesnakes keep their rattles
In some places where that agreement is not kept by the humans, the rattlesnakes begin to lose their rattles
That's right
Now there's no more warning
And the first thing, camouflage, turns out to be very problematic for the human because the human will die
Yeah, the human can't see them
Blind, essentially
Yeah
Alright, hold that thought, one more session, I'll be back
Okay?
Yep, sounds good
