Hello, everyone. Welcome.
I've been listening to a podcast.
An interview with Ted Morgan, who wrote a book on the life of William S. Burroughs.
And I learned quite a bit about his life in the first segment,
where mostly they're talking about his life. I learned a bunch of really interesting things.
I have long...
I think around the time I became capable of writing something that I myself considered reasonably to be a poem,
which was a good four or five hundred attempts into my writing education.
I had written many... well, a number of notebooks filled with mostly very bad poetry.
And I'd become very interested at that age, probably. What am I?
I start writing around the age of twenty-one-ish.
No. It's got to be earlier. It's got to be like nineteen.
And my writing career begins with an LSD trip involving me, rich,
around guitar player, brilliant, very troubled guitar player, one of my closest old friends.
His friend, whose name will probably come to me, and my best friend from Stockton, Greg Ward,
who was probably the youngest among us.
They showed up at my first apartment, which was on Pershing in Stockton.
And they were on LSD. They had driven here without directions and drove directly from where they were here without interruption.
In other words, they quite reasonably, I thought, claimed to have telepathically discerned the route.
And of all the things that humans might easily be able to telepathically discern routes,
or among them I myself have experienced a number of situations not involving the use of psychedelics,
where I was able to traverse a route between two quite distant points.
And without knowing the location of the person or place I was seeking, I was able to just arrive there by car.
I would claim this happened no less than five times in my life and maybe no more than nine that I was aware of.
But yes, humans can, under some circumstances, telepathically determine and traverse.
I mean, it's not determined. It's not like you plan the route in your mind.
You simply drive in the general direction of somewhere with the hope that you will figure out how to arrive there, quote unquote.
What ends up happening has nothing to do with figuring, much at all.
There might be a tiny bit of figuring. It's mostly a non-ordinary skill.
So yeah, my writing began that night.
Me and Greg took some of the LSD they brought. They were peaking when they got there.
We were peaking, I don't know, six hours later.
And both Rich and his friend, who I forged a fairly close bond with, had notebooks.
And in the notebooks, they were writing things, not necessarily stories and not necessarily poems.
They were just writing.
And I felt very envious in the sense of this.
I wanted to have a notebook in which I wrote things.
And so I started, I had a notebook, and I started writing that night.
I think I remember the terrible badness of my early attempts.
I think I almost can remember what thing it was I wrote.
I might have written a couple of sort of bad prose, Pink Floyd-esque things.
A man alone on a hill.
A blue amoeba is involved. Anyway, yeah, I wrote terrible poetry.
But by the time I was capable, I started, and I also remember the first time I wrote a poem,
that I thought might actually be a real poem.
And it was after running into in the afternoon near a little shop in Santa Rosa in a sort of rural part of town,
I...
Let me fix my mic here, hopefully, so that we can reduce the wind noise.
Right, hopefully that's not on my earlier recording too.
So I was walking around and I came across someone who was Touretting while riding a bicycle.
And I thought to myself that some part of me was very much like that inside myself,
but had no voice, which is not a kind of uncommon thought for me.
When I see the unique behavior of other humans,
I may very likely feel, often anyway, that I'm seeing something of myself that just doesn't get expressed,
but is inside me nonetheless.
And I went home and wrote what I thought was my first poem, and probably shortly thereafter I became really...
I had always been interested in experimental music and aleatoric music.
I don't know the exact definition of aleatoric, but I think it may mean sort of without technical method
or without reference to or consideration of formal music theory or something like this.
Random, right? Accidental.
I had noticed in art that took this principle into its inaction and embodiment,
I had noticed strange threads that looked to me...
Someone just passed me wearing a uniform that I think belongs to the Communist Party.
Perhaps I should pay attention to what's actually going on.
In any case, I had noticed threads that implied links between the non-ordinary nature of human consciousness and the art.
And these would include things that were paratelopathic, highly influential, or perhaps prophetic,
meaning that they had a non-ordinary relationship with time.
And I was very interested in these features.
I had long believed that science fiction writers, some of them anyway, were employing a form of encryption
and that underneath their stories were actual principles that could liberate other humans.
Now, of course, this was the conscious intent of many science fiction authors.
That's a branch of literature, an articulation where the prophets would naturally hide because it's safe there.
If they're actually visionary, science fiction writing is a good place to hide, or fantasy writing,
or writing of the kind that Burroughs did, which was...
So Burroughs was very concerned with warping cognition in various ways
and understanding how consciousness could be focused or refocused.
He was also very interested in non-ordinary aspects of human awareness and experience, particularly telepathy and precognition.
And what he did as an author probably, you know, it's unclear to me whether...
Let me put it this way.
I think William S. Burroughs was an engineer.
I think he knew he was an engineer.
I don't think he called himself that. There were better things to call oneself publicly.
What did he engineer?
He engineered linguistic drugs.
It has the same effect, right?
He could produce language in such a fashion as to hook certain faculties of consciousness and directly manipulate them,
not necessarily to produce an expected result, though I think he was capable of that.
He was certainly capable of writing copy, for example, in the sense of copywriters,
the people who encode the agendas of advertisers in language.
And similarly, propagandists.
These are two places where everyone agrees that the goal is to manipulate and reshape human awareness,
thought, concern, attention, motivation, and so forth.
I'm certainly capable of this, and I had been fascinated with the surrealists who had an entirely dissimilar orientation.
In a sense, they worshipped accident and what?
The dreaming mind, the escape from logic, a kind of jailbreak of rationality.
They had also discovered that language, when bent to purposes other than the public and social structuring of human behavior,
which is most of what it's for, believe me.
And by the way, awareness is a behavior.
Awareness, it turns out, for it to be in any way powerful and useful and good, it has to be trained.
And if it's not trained, it tends to collapse down various stairwells into low-energy states with bad result for the minds involved
and the people, because it's miserable to be in that state.
Unless you're so bereft, there's certain kinds of catastrophic impoverishment, so to speak, that are so bad that you can't tell your bad off.
And I can't speak to how that is, really.
Hopefully, I won't become an expert on the results of such devastating thefts of human interiority.
But the weird thing about human interiority is, it's part nature, right?
Part of the power of your awareness comes with you into human birth, your human birth, your specific body, and so on.
But a lot of it, and in some ways, most of it, is how rich is the culture in which you come up, so to speak.
And when that culture is rich and magical, human minds blossom.
And when it's pragmatic, utilitarian, slave-making, prison-eering, war-mind, courtroom-mind, so forth, money-mind, it's fucking miserable.
Now, you do get some humans in the bad context who don't give a shit, right?
They're going to go for the mountaintop at any cost, at all costs.
And most of them will get somewhere near it if they're not just snuffed somehow by fate.
And you also have the opposite, right?
You have people born into astonishing, rich culture who don't actually become...
Yeah, this gets into the problem of human developmental tears.
That's really interesting.
And how uncommon it is for us to traverse many tears of our developmental potential in any given human lifetime.
Some of us will traverse many, some few.
Some will make great leaps in latter life, some will make most of their leaps in early life.
Because every human being is different.
So what I'm saying is, yeah, there are those two who having a great context to grow up in doesn't really lift them much.
They're not able to make use of that lift.
You know, sometimes human development becomes a bit of a grudge match.
This is a bit more common for men where they're really angry about something.
They've experienced and witnessed profound injustice.
Or just a total lack of any kind of reassuring, nurturing richness in the social, intellectual, cognitive, relational, behavioral contexts they come up in.
And that can infuriate them in a way where they just become absolutely determined to either exceed or escape that context.
Sometimes very difficult circumstances produce profoundly, developmentally skillful individuals.
So probably around my 22nd or 23rd year, I have become interested in how language, I didn't yet realize what a profound...
This is the early days of my mad scientist of language experiments.
And I know that Burroughs was doing something very similar, right?
He was experimenting.
In a sense, what he was doing was a kind of gain of function research on the codings that could produce altered states of awareness or ability in human beings.
And it's weird because in the same way that the surrealists created really a new form of art and new forms of writing
that obeyed something that wasn't merely structure or form and had no...
It's guiding principles were visionary rather than articulate.
The stuff was really a bit, again, like a psychotropic drug or a psychedelic drug.
And what Burroughs was doing was he had discovered through experiment that language was a technology.
And whether or not it was true, it was certainly as if that technology did not...
There was plenty of evidence once you start to examine the technology for the influence of non-human intelligences on its origins and its function.
So Burroughs was an experimentalist in this sense.
And when Geissen introduced him to what is called the cut-up method, and I want to comment on this briefly,
there are many different ways to employ this method.
You could take the pages of a printed book, slice the page out, slice the lines out so you have separated lines,
and then cut those lines randomly or at word boundaries, occasionally, something like this.
Put that all in a hat, draw them out and read them.
It's a way of introducing randomness, but it's not merely randomness that gets introduced.
Even if you are quite meticulous about attempting to accomplish that, you will discover in your own way,
as you relate with this stuff that you might say your mind is made of in a sense,
a layer of your mind is certainly imprinted with all of this representational...what?
It's a perilinguistic substrate underneath the language that...the languages you may actually speak and understand.
Burroughs found ways to play inside the cut-up method so that you're partially...and so did I, eventually, with extremely surprising results.
So, how to put this?
Burroughs was doing gain-of-function research on little chunks of code that would naturally assemble themselves.
A gravelly voice. It's tricky.
Okay, so you know how origin of life people, right? They put together these sort of soups.
And they may put them together intentionally.
They may put a recipe together.
And then subject it to transformative energies and so on.
You know, in beakers or in bubble spheres or whatever they're doing to attempt to produce...
attempt to understand what the state change from chemistry, quote-unquote, to organisms is and how that happens.
It may be that it doesn't happen and they're probably not considering that.
Otherwise, they wouldn't be doing that research, but that's soup, right?
If you took a bunch of chunks of RNA and DNA and you stirred them up and the chunks were of the right structural valence
and the electromagnetic capacity for those chunks to bond up was somehow provided for.
Well, I think what you'd get is a mess.
But some people might imagine that life could emerge under such conditions as a state change in the chemistry.
Burroughs was looking for something very similar in language.
You realize that if you swim, you swarm these chunks together, little bits of thought, concept, gnome and clature,
you begin to be able to see a landscape underneath ordinary language or above it.
And that stuff is highly charged.
And one might say parahipnotic, it has the capacity to restructure consciousness.
Now, if we were looking for someone to help us restructure consciousness in this way,
we might not want to pick burrows, but he'd be a great teacher for us to see one of the exemplars of a student of this process.
And also we could say a founding father of a certain kind of meta or paralinguistic play.
So around the time I was maybe 23 or 24, I came across a guy walked into my music store one day
and he looked really straight-laced, kind of clean-cut, tall guy, very short hair, glasses.
His name was Gary Paolini, and we embarked on a series of paralinguistic, psycholinguistic adventures.
I think he's the one who really, his sharpness of his creative and poetic sensibilities dramatically influenced my mind.
And our friendship was one of the most creative relationship I've ever had.
Absolutely brilliant.
And a student of burrows, there were many other authors who influenced him,
but the stink of burrows was certainly on his fingertips, so to speak.
And it was also profound to have a companion with whom, like, who could understand the experimental context
and the profundity of some of the results we produced together, and often for each other.
I mean, in some ways, in the relationship, there was kind of an audience of one.
We often wrote or made sound art together and for each other, or we wrote in an attempt to acquire the what?
Not really the praise, but the enthusiasm of each other, right?
Like, how did you do this?
I remember a piece he wrote that was kind of a cut-up method called Fertile Nest of Pain.
You can see how that, even the title, echoes a kind of Borosian sentiment,
which you can hear the flavor of in the title of a book he wrote with Kerouac, probably the first thing he ever wrote,
called, and the hippos were boiled in their tanks.
If you want to get a taste of Boros, and you haven't yet, probably my favorite book of his, though I love a lot of his short works,
I would recommend getting a book of his shorter works.
There's something called The Third Mind with Gison.
Brian Gison, I think, gave Boros the key, in a sense, to immortality, if he gave him the cut-up method.
And I don't know, it's not an unnatural thing to conceive of, right, the cut-up method.
It had already been clear to me that I could randomly select words or phrases and string them together in consciousness,
to interesting result, particularly if I had a good sense of what sort of character or flavor of the result,
what was desired, right, what character or flavor of result was desired.
This is determinative in the selection process.
Unedited cut-up is very interesting.
Edited cut-up is often more profound.
And the combination of cut-up with intentional creative writing and thought is also very profound.
And what do I mean by profound?
Boros certainly discovered, and many other authors have discovered this,
that when writing, there are specific ways to go about the process of writing,
methods, if you will, that they may not necessarily be conscious or formal,
but not only produces astonishing results, and again, it depends on what you're after,
what kind of astonishing they are, or if they're any, you know, if they're useful at all.
It turns out that it's a magical practice.
It won't a whole bunch matter whether you believe in magic or not.
If you play around with this stuff, you will eventually discover,
presuming that your passion in pursuing it is real.
It's like present.
You will discover that the manipulation of language can restructure history
and possibly invent future timelines,
as well as affect the nature of time along those lines, the character of time.
If I have been in any way a student of magic, my interest has never been in manipulating reality.
Magic is a way of intentionally warping reality and transforming it according to one's intentions, goals or will.
Or, if you're as loopy as Burroughs, just straight up experimentally,
let's just throw this stuff together and see what we can produce and what kinds of results obtain.
I do think Burroughs was more intentional than that, but he was quite an experimentalist.
I also think that he is an esthete.
He had an aesthetics within his experiments that render his work art,
rather than, say, some branch of science, or perhaps many people would like to think,
merely he was like a bubbling pot of little branches of insanity on some giant tree
that had a monstrous visage, probably insectoid visage in his case.
But if I've had an interest in magic, it's not for the purpose of warping reality, per se.
It's more the pursuit of beauty and understanding of the strange, complex underpinnings of human thought and identity and nature
and the various ways in which those opportunities are often disposed of, commodified, inhibited, amputated, occulted, and so forth.
Burroughs was, I mean, there was a lot going on with the guy.
In a sense, he was a space traveler and the space he was traveling in was metalinguistic, peralinguistic, partly magical, imaginal.
And, you know, he was a person who was most of his life involved in drug use and intoxication.
He must have, there's a certain degree of hedonism there, and many of his writings explode into kind of terrifying, often orgiastic scenes
of humans overtaken in a sort of mob-like frenzy of every possible mode of sexuality that could be conceived of.
And some that probably wouldn't. So that was, you know, he was an explorer of the outer space of eroticism in this sense.
And a very unusual intelligence that was at once captured by its left, you know, by the reflection of its left hemispheric, like, structure.
And then, you know, the injection of liberty that comes from somehow warping that back on its own origins, and while doing so introducing the dreaming mind or some features of the dreaming minds, like knowledge and discoveries about language and its origins, its history.
So we began to produce experiments, Gary and I, both together and alone, circa 1985. And I was young, but I was sharp, and I was sort of fresh from the mold in a sense of...
Like just being indy-fatigable, always wanting to play with language and, you know, creative vignettes.
We had a two-hour improvised sort of industrial music opera called Traffic Signal Man, as an example, in which we just switched off riffing about the experiences of a man who came to understand
that the traffic signals encoded all futures and that they could be read there.
We had experiments involving telepathy.
We were aware, at least peripherally, of the importance of that topic, and we were also concerned with how to use language in such unexpected ways that it could trigger like a cascade.
It could set up a kind of cascade in consciousness.
Burroughs was certainly aware of this potential and interested in it. In effect, rather than being a watchmaker, Burroughs was trying to make a bomb.
He was trying to understand how to use language to destroy the cages that language often imposes on our identity, our imagination, our creativity, our life path.
He's right about the cut-up method. A lot of his magical practices, which were not really promoted specifically as such, are quite surprising in their results if applied in the right spirit.
They definitely changed both the practitioner and the context around them.
He was interested in a kind of armed rebellion of the counterculture.
I believe that he wanted to give them the weapons that emerge in the light of a tactically superior relationship with language and creativity.
In his mind, the stuff that advertisers and propagandists were doing was, you know, plural, childish, compared to what could easily be accomplished by someone who was aware of the scope of the possibilities.
And the first few times that there were effects from the kinds of experiments that Gary and I did together and alone, I got to say I was troubled or at least extremely surprised.
We had conceived of such things, but we didn't believe them at first glance. We thought of that as a sort of a poet's fairy tale, if you will, or the poet's fairy tale, right?
The poetry is actually magic. No, it's not a fairy tale. At least there's a slice of the pie of poetics that, you know, the quality probably encompasses most of writing.
But in that encompassment, the slice where you will see strong evidence of magical transformation of the past, cognition, or the future, that slice is relatively modest.
Now, of course, if you begin with that particular purpose, or if that purpose is one of the foundational purposes in your work as a writer, that's a completely different story.
You're going to have non-ordinary adventures. When Burroughs, and I'm not sure he was the first or the only one to say this, in fact, this quote could come from someone else.
But when Burroughs says language is a virus from outer space, who's the other guy? Gloria Anderson, William S. Burroughs, and John Giorno.
A brilliantly fascinating writer and performer, who also deeply influenced my friend Gary.
He and I probably met specifically due to the effect of John Giorno on Mr. P's mind, because he came to my music store looking for certain kinds of effects pedals, particularly time delays.
And Giorno was at this time already well known for a style of kind of extended tirades, extended poetic tirades with echo, with some parts echoing.
Gary had produced a recording that I eventually heard, and I have a copy of somewhere. It was absolutely brilliant.
He and I were both concerned with performing on stage, and we were concerned with dramatic sort of performance art oriented aspects of stage craft.
And I can't recall yet the title of this piece, but I just, when I heard it I knew I was in the presence of a brilliant conspiratorial intelligence.
Something, the word, there's a word, and then the last, the second word is lectures.
If I recall correctly, what Gary would do is he would, this is so, so brilliant.
He would very timidly get up on the stage looking with his body language, nervous and frightened, and he would adjust his glasses a lot and look very inept.
And then he would pull a crumpled sheet of paper out of his pocket and try to uncrumble it and drop it and make apologies and so forth.
And then start kind of stammering through a really childlike writing about his dog or something, right, and bumbling and stuttering.
But then, slowly, over time, a transformation would begin to overcome him as his style mutated from timid, stammering, nervous person,
to a sort of southern evangelist, you know, kind of a hellfire evangelist begins to emerge and then becomes absolutely exultant
and is, you know, pounding the audience with waves of para-religious invective.
And it was absolute genius.
I needed to know the man whose mind that came from, and so we were very close for many years, well, for a few, three or four, and then our paths diverged.
But during that time, we did a lot of experimental composition with sound, language, cut-up methods.
My friend Forrest Gower built a software system for me that I could use to deconstruct any text file and then randomly reassemble it in a broad variety of ways.
And I rarely use that to write, but I used it quite frequently to produce what I would think of as the clay, right?
The verbal clay that, through re-entrant editing over time, would become, you know, finished compositions.
We also experimented quite a bit with what I will call Bibliomancy.
There's a reason why we have words like this, and the reason isn't, oh, someone just made up some superstitious stuff,
and so we had to make up a word to point at the superstition.
That is nowhere near where the word Bibliomancy comes from.
Bibliomancy comes from humans discovering that something resembling the cut-up method was itself oracular.
That literally could give you a doorway to revisioneer your perspective on a person's situation, group, opportunity, threat, or future.
Bibliomancy involves a state of mind that is receptive and respectful to the power of that process,
and the random selection of books and passages in books.
You can put as many books before you as you like, and then just switch back and forth.
And what this does is it allows the mind's naturally-irregular faculties to, in a dream-like way,
create an intimate structural bubble in which reflections arise.
And one could say, oh, it's not the language, it's not the text, it's the mind.
Nope, it's not true. It's both.
It's both things playing together that produce the strange and fascinating bubble.
What you might do is say select five books, open them up.
I used to do this as a bit of a party trick sometimes, and it would blow people away.
If I had them select books, I would get them open in front of me, and then I would randomly compose an aleatoric text by selecting,
arbitrarily as fast as I could, passages from different books and then flipping the pages and redoing that.
It produces a magical result if one does this, because no one has ever heard language used like that.
And in fact, most of us are subject to language, and this is a situation in which we rise above our subjugation to language
and use it for our purposes, which we may hope are beautiful, but at the very least let them be insightful or educational.
There are broad arrays of discoverable methods in such play.
The sensibilities of the explorer, the researcher, the psychologist, the psychogenesis, the one who wants to craft minds,
which all authors partake in because the production of language is a mind-crafting concern.
We want to shape the linguistic, visual, relational, and experiential manifold its branches.
We want to shape them and reform them, and also hopefully give them new kinds of liberty to astonish them by transforming their own structure.
Language is really good at doing that.
The successful experimenter will have some common features with people like Burroughs, even if Burroughs himself is a very unique and sometimes harsh example.
Let's see if in closing, oh wait, I have a place of dead roads.
Let's see what we've got here.
I think I can do a little bit of this.
I'm so old, I need spectacles, so ridiculous.
A little bit dangerous, but...
When someone asks me to what extent my work is autobiographical, a rooming house in Denver was used for storage then,
stopped into a saloon, half hoping that someone would anyway, I'm leaving America, they burn it to fix our drinks.
Now, Broadway's full of God advanced and detailed incantations are carried after the play who just arrived.
My dead, I mean, my dear, who didn't like this and they, like a jeweler examining precious stones,
have been impressed by the self-confidence and the families with such deadly precision, the wine and the grappa.
A jalopy said that the violent back kick of Tom Forcade was but a charm, a power that is hard to pinpoint, a knife.
Learn how to use the solid knife first.
If you're jealous, you're not in control of the situation.
Three of his boys down riddled with bullets, Vienna.
I love Vienna.
Do you remember he encouraged me to have an exit permit?
Okay, so there's a little bit of an example of a relatively crude and simplistic moment of bibliomancy play in the books with William Burroughs,
which I certainly report from the bunker, which I recommend.
And probably my favorite book of Burroughs, at least back when I used to read some of them.
By the way, I wasn't much of a fan of his writing.
There were some of his things that I loved, some of his short, what would he call them?
The routines, yeah, routines.
I thought of partly as comedic, though they often come off very grim.
So yeah, this podcast I was listening to brought many things to mind, and I wanted to talk a little bit about the strange and experimental brilliance of Burroughs
and his influence on my own thought, experience, and life path.
I hope some of you found this interesting, even though it was quite autobiographical.
When Burroughs was asked, you know, is your work autobiographical, he says something like every word in it is autobiographical and none of it is autobiographical.
This is a kind of typical unwillingness to collapse into a system whose structures he may fundamentally mistrust.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
Bye-bye for now.
