Hello, everyone. Welcome to Love and Philosophy Beyond Dichotomies. Today we're talking to C.T.
Nguyen, mostly about his book Games Agency as Art, but also about many other things. Of course,
about love, how is it related to games. T is a kind of philosopher's philosopher, so it's a
little surprising to hear him say that philosophy was his backup career, that he actually wanted to
be a novelist. But when you hear how much pleasure he takes in Kant's formula of humanity, I think,
like me, you will also imagine he's always been a philosopher as well. And he is a very good writer,
and that can sometimes be trouble in the philosophical world. Sometimes it's a little
suspect. A lot of people we think of as writers like Nietzsche or Camus or Hannah Arendt, who herself
said she's not a philosopher, sort of as a way of addressing this exact issue, are not really
considered real philosophers in some very particular analytic circles. But of course, in other circles,
they are. So it really just matters where you're coming from. But still, it's an interesting little
puzzle that we do turn back and forth and shift around like a Rubik's cube. Art, porn, focus,
vulnerability. We talk a lot about trust, as that's another topic that T writes about a lot. And we do
talk about these boundaries of the academic and artistic voice. Are games and art about the attitude one
brings to them or the object itself? Does being an agent mean we have an experience of agency? How
gamified have our lives become? How aware are we of the stakes of that agency that's being set for us,
either by game makers or coders? Or what is a game really? And how is it different from play? T helps
me understand that a bit. Rather offhandedly, he gives me maybe one of the best definitions I've ever
heard. A casual sort of definition about what a philosopher is really doing. We are talking about
neutrality. And he says something about how in his own life, the richness that he's gotten from
philosophers is not from thinking of philosophers as some standpoint, free, neutral observer, but rather,
it's been understanding philosophers as people questioning. And I think he says thinking and
talking out of themselves. I really like this phrase, out of themselves, because it can mean,
you know, from within, from one's own path and trajectory and experience. And it can also mean
sort of moving beyond that into different agental agent bases or perspectives, which is all stuff I'm
really interested in, in my own research. And T sheds a lot of light on that. He's really good at pulling
these kind of threads apart of things that we assume go together. For example, virtual reality spaces and
gaming. Not always the same thing. Of course, you can play games in virtual reality spaces. But it's
easy to assume, as I do sometimes that all of that is a kind of play. Also, the social media spaces that
we're in, we also talk a lot about focus and the power of it, the power of focus for both good and bad,
of course, depending on how you might want to use it. And we talk about this terrifying vulnerability of
how entangled we all really are, and the trust that is required, not only to play games, but just to
experience any form of art or connection to live, really. So love might be the opposite of games, because
it's non-disposable, as he says, it's non-fungible. But also, you can love games, and we should enjoy them
as we're playing them. So enjoy this conversation, and read T's work if you haven't already. It's interesting, timely,
he's someone who loves art and film and writing, and you get to experience that in his writing.
I learned a lot here, even about rock climbers and the percentage of mathematicians and analytic
philosophers that happen to do it. Makes a lot of sense, the logic of it, but I hadn't thought of it
before. Anyway, okay, I hope you enjoy this. Here we go.
Hi, T. Thank you for being on the show today.
It's great to be here.
So, this is about love and philosophy, which can be a little daunting, those words together. But
I want to start with language, because you're a very good writer, and I've also heard you speak,
and you're a very good speaker. And I have a friend who used to say that you can't be a good
speaker and a good writer. I don't know why he says that. But I'm just wondering, have you always been
articulate? How did you tell me about your entry into the landscape of language?
T. I mean, philosophy was my second backup career. I was supposed to be a novelist.
There we go. I thought you wrote about food though. This is getting confused.
T. That was also a side gig. I was supposed to be a novelist. I'm a failed novelist. I took tons
of creative writing classes through college. I think my first professional journalism was like,
I was like 15. And there was this contest in the local newspaper to be the teenage reviewer. And then
they gave it to two of us. And I think they were expecting us to be the excitable teenagers. But
if you get like an essay contest for 15 year olds, you're going to get the two most pretentious
fucking assholes who just want to talk about like Polish art movies and Robert Altman or
shit like that. So yeah, so I was, I always thought I was a writer. I did fiction stuff. Weirdly,
I kind of did philosophy as a backup career. I've always cared about writing. I
it's very hard for me to separate. For a lot of philosophers, there's this, I think, academic
tone that you learn. And I, I've always been kind of allergic to it. I had to learn it to
get through graduate school. You can do it when you have to do it.
T. I learned and got programmed to do this academic
tone and I had to talk my way out of it, but it was like finding my way back to like my actual
writing style. I was part of this literary magazine in undergrad years and it was anonymous
submission. I was one of these, I was an immigrant scholarship kid at Harvard playing on the lit mag
with all these fancy New York types. But you had to submit anonymously. And whenever I would submit
something, people would find me afterwards like, that was yours. And I was like, how did you know?
And they're like, it sounds exactly like you. I could tell from the first sentence that it sounds
exactly like you. And I felt like grad school kind of beat that out of me. And then I had to like,
refine, refine through my own, like nervousness and sorrow. Like
the natural voice I had when I was like 18.
T. That's really interesting to me. It's not a dichotomy exactly, but there is this weird thing
between serious writing and literary writing and, you know, blog-ish kind of writing, but all that's
getting confused now too. So yeah. How do you think that serves a purpose in a way? It sounds like
you're kind of resisting it, but yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, there's, it's funny. I've just been reading about this. I think there's a history
of professionalism or what it is to be a professional is to face your personality and
operate by the rules of your institution. So I've been reading this incredible book,
kind of a classic outside of philosophy called, from Mary Poovey called History of the Modern Fact.
She's, she's part of the science and technology studies world. And she thinks that the foundation
of kind of the attitude of the sciences and modern professionalism starts with double and
entry bookkeeping in the 1600s and double entry bookkeeping, she thinks it's a, is like the first
major system in which you create, you kind of architect a reliable system. And if everyone follows it
and enters information in the same way, then it all becomes like interactive and portable and it all
interconnects really easily, but it only works if people are following these standardized rules.
So, I mean, philosophy used to be less like this. I think the sciences have moved. I mean, Poovey
thinks that the sciences, starting with people like Bacon and Boyle, that the sciences were openly
admiring of the double entry bookkeeping and openly thinking like, look, we are not rhetoricians or, you
know, artists. What we're doing is we're trying to be kind of universal witnesses without particular
standpoints or personalities who enter information in a way that has nothing to do with our individuality.
Yeah. That's really fascinating too, to think about bookkeeping and then computers, like the first,
the real way that word is used and how that probably is a kind of a, not even parallel path,
but entangled paths.
Yeah. I mean, this is, so this shows up in, so this great moment in Theodore
Porter's Trust in Numbers, a book I've been reading a lot and I just taught, and he distinguishes
between a two, a few different notions of objectivity. He thinks one of them is, he calls
it professional objectivity, where you act out of your role and not your individuality. And there's a
lot of reason for that, right? I mean, I think about this a lot as a teacher. I used to be like,
scorn professional roles. And the more I think about it, the more like, I think when I'm a teacher,
I should not, I am, there are certain parts of my personality suppressed. There's certain students
you naturally like, there's certain students you naturally dislike as a person, and you have to get
rid of all that shit, right? You are interacting with them as a professional, right? And, but I also
think- So you have to take on a kind of role, teacher role.
You have to take on a kind of role and remove certain parts of your personality. So he says there's
professional objectivity, there's like objectivity as like removing bias, and there's just something
he calls mechanical objectivity. And mechanical objectivity is repeatable by anybody, right?
Anyone can follow the rule system. So I think there's- Sounds like a game a little bit.
There's a lot of reason to think that a lot of what's going on is quite game-like. Anyway,
so for your original question, I think there's a lot of institutional reasons, especially in the
sciences to create this kind of non-personal voice because we are trying to enter data by a particular
system. And there's this question about whether something like philosophy should be like that.
Are we kind of neutral scholars who are entering standpoint free information? And I don't, I don't,
I don't, that's not what philosophy has been for me. It's been people thinking and talking
out of themselves. Yeah. A lot of the philosophers that become sort of,
I don't know how to say, I'm thinking of someone like Nietzsche or something, or even people who
get called philosophers, but no one who's, or most people in academic philosophy wouldn't
consider a philosopher or something. It gets tricky, doesn't it? When you're studying philosophy
academically, sometimes you can't even say you like those writers in a way, and you certainly can't
really sound like them, at least not at a certain, certain time point. But I wonder,
what was it like when you were a student? And now that you're a teacher, do you get annoyed when you
see that in your students ever? I mean, it's really complicated. I, as a graduate student had,
I mean, in creative writing, I carefully learned to write in a way that sounded like me. This is hard,
like it's, it's kind of, it's, it's a developed skill to have. Definitely. It's very hard to write
in a way that seems very easy, which your, your writing is like that. It's very easy. It flows.
People don't feel like they're working to read it. That's a hard thing to do. It's definitely a skill.
Thank you. By the way, thank you for noticing. I worked so fucking hard on this shit. Like,
I think there is an assumption among people that don't spend a lot of time writing, that if it's
easy to read, it was easy to write. The opposite usually. That's why I asked you about your language,
because you can speak well too. And those are also difficult skills, but yeah, you don't, you don't
usually learn one and then get the other for free. Yeah, no, they were, both of them were kind of
learned skills. Uh, the writing, I mean, it's so much like I'll finish an argument and then I'll do
about 20 or 30 more drafts to get the writing, right. And just play with sentences, change around
ordering shift examples and like through like pain and suffering and polishing, like it eventually
emerges into something kind of clean and simple. I remember a moment in writing my games book where
I had, I had this like 15 pages of very technical argument to prove a particular point. It had like
quantifiers. I couldn't do it in any way that didn't have like formal logic in it. And then I finally
figured out how to do it in three sentences through a simple example and no complex argument. And I was so
happy and it took like months to get that. And now it just feels like nothing.
Yeah. That's how it is. That's how it is. But do you think, I was going to ask you about this
critical thinking thing too, because I think it can go the other way around too. I think you can
have beautiful writing in academic philosophy. You are an example. It's hard though. So it can also go
the other way around where someone can sort of be articulate and write, but they don't do the
critical thinking and the argumentation too, because there is something about forcing yourself
to go into that logic. And that was hard for me, for example, especially if you're kind of more
inclined towards the bigger picture, like learning those details. I think you also had an experience
a little bit early on with logic or did you? I mean, I was always more on the romantic,
poetic side of the thing. And it took me a while to slow down and be careful. I don't know. Maybe I
can say this. I think people that concentrate on making their writing pleasing and don't have to worry
about getting the arguments right, have an advantage in popularity and in convincing people.
Like if you concentrate on nothing but charismatic rhetoric, you're going to be a specialist in that,
especially if you're not loyal to like the difficult stuff. So I think for those of us who have
some kind of loyalty to getting the ideas right and being careful and making it clear and presentable,
like, I don't know what it takes. It's hard as shit. It takes so much work.
But that gets us to the love. That gets us to the love a little bit. It's a difficult word,
because why do you do it? You know? I don't know if you've ever thought of it in connection
to that word. And of course that word is overused. And also we could talk about love of wisdom.
It can go a lot of different ways, but just in this one sense, you know, it is really hard.
It is really hard to learn arguments, to think critically. It's really hard in this little,
small community of philosophers to get some respect because you have to know so much and you
have to talk the language and then also to write well. So that's a lot of work. So what's motivating
that?
I think one of the things that gets you into being a philosopher is you love a good distinction. You
love a good argument. I can say, I mean, I don't know, like I've taught Kant's formula of humanity,
like for 20 years. And when I'm rearing up to make the argument again, I'm just like,
fucking excited and like getting, like loving a good distinction or a cool argument. I think that's part of
it. And then there's just, you know, I think what makes you attracted to a medium, a lot of it's
about the kind of fussy shit you love. Like, so I love music, but I can never play music. And I,
part of what I realized is I just have no affection for scales. Like the hard grind of being a musician,
I don't enjoy. On the other hand, there's a lot of the academic job that sucks. And, but for me,
if you give me a sentence and you're like, fine tune the sentence, just make it sing.
I'm just happy. I like doing it. I love change the comma, shift this word slightly earlier.
How does it feel like that? Just, and I, so I think for a lot of us, um, one of the things we're
drawn to is things where the basics mechanics of the medium are appealing to us. And we're, I mean,
it's really important that people are different, by the way, it's funny. So I, I just want to give
a caution. Sometimes I talk about this stuff and people say that like, oh, T, you're trying to force
everyone, even people who don't want to write to like, and I'm like, no, like what, what we should
have in our profession is a diversity of personalities. Some people have no interest in writing
and all their interest is an argument or scholarship. That's great. Um, but for those
few of us in the profession who really like writing, like it would be nice to encourage that instead of
my experience, which was having it kind of roughly beaten out of me sternly.
Yeah. People, people are suspicious of it, I guess, in the, in the field, but once you can do it,
then you can communicate much more widely with a lot of people, which you also eventually got to
that point too, where it paid off or is paying off this. Does this relate to the game that you
write a lot about games and I I'm trying to figure out where the, is the philosophy that's that part of
you that really likes to, to solve the problem, to get the sentence right? Does that connect to this,
the interest in games? Do you see a connection there? Of course it's you, so it's continuous, but.
Yeah. I mean, yeah. Uh, one thing I'll note, uh, I've noticed is, so I, I mean, but not all games,
right? But for me, the games I like are continuous with the other things I like. Like, I mean,
I try, for example, I tried running, running, never did anything for me. And it was when I
found rock climbing and what rock climbing is, is precision puzzle solving with your body, right?
It's like, that's a great way to say it. It's like ecstatic physical problem solving. So like,
I've noticed people, people, sometimes I've had people complain that
rock climbing is like a fad among philosophers. It's, I don't, it's like this weird. Yeah. There
are a lot of rock climber philosophers. There's also a lot of mathematician, uh, rock climbers. Um,
I think in the early, someone did a survey of the first generation of rock climbers and they were
overwhelmingly either gymnast or mathematicians or both, but yeah, no, there's something really,
but like, I think the thing that appeals to you about puzzle precision, puzzle solving, um,
is something that appeals to me across the games I play and the profession I have. Uh,
so I think there's a, there's a deep similarity, but often that similarity is like, I don't know,
not where people think the core of the activity is, but that's what I like.
But it seems to be in the pattern or in the way of the progression or something. There's two things,
right? I want to talk to you about specifications and this kind of thing of knowledge, because I think
it disconnects, but also, um, agency. So something like rock climbing, you consider a game, something
like chess, you consider a game. Yeah. Yeah. And you say this is a form of art. Yes. Yep. Because
it lets us experience different agency. Is that right? Let me be, uh, fussy for a second. Yeah,
please. So the definition of games I'm using in the book is Suits' definition of games. So Suits says
that what it is to play. Yeah. What it is to play a game is to voluntarily take on unnecessary obstacles
to create the possibility of the activity of struggling to overcome them, right? So for Suits,
inefficiencies, constraints, and obstacles are part of the key constituent of the game.
And it's kind of hidden in that little definition, but he makes clear in his full definition that part
of how you create obstacles and struggles is by specifying goals, by specifying points, right?
So anything in which you specify the goal and then you specify constraints for the goal that are
necessary to hit that goal, that's a game. And you do it in order to construct a particular kind of
activity. By the way, I should just say, I don't think he, his version, his definition of a game
quite captures our natural language of game, but that's the thing that I think it's a clear
part of human life, these artificial goals and constraints. So what I was trying to say is to
use Suits to ground an aesthetic theory of games, to say that Suits is pointing to the center of
games. So let's talk about the art form of that. Because there have been plenty of people, I think,
who have been praising games and talking about them is incredibly valuable and important, but they tend
to assimilate them to more familiar forms. They tend to say things like, oh, games are like movies,
so they're really good when they have narrative and dialogue and script. They tend not to pay
attention to like, I think a lot of what game players and game designers pay attention to,
which is how these kind of mechanical features construct particular activities.
So one of the things I say in the book is that if you take Suits and you look at it, what you see
is that what makes games distinctive as an art form is they manipulate our agency. They manipulate
what we can do, the obstacles we're against, and our goals. Like this was the key for me,
games set goals. They tell us what to want, and then we can kind of just occupy it. What's distinctive
about games is that they work in the medium of agency. I just want to be really clear about this
because you said something a little different, which a lot of people tend to think I'm saying,
which is the experience of games is always an experience of agency. That's not the same thing.
The medium, it being the medium is not the same thing as it being the core focus. So for example,
so like poetry, words are the medium of poetry. Is the experience of words the aesthetic experience
of poetry? Not always. Some poetry draws your attention to the poetry, but other poetry like haiku,
I think so haiku classically draws your attention to the world, right? Like what haiku, a good haiku.
So one of my favorite haiku from Basho is, even in Kyoto, when I hear the cucko's cry,
I long for Kyoto. And I think that kind of haiku pushes your attention towards thoughts about nostalgia,
loss movement. It uses words to point to the world, where other poetry, especially a lot of modernist
European poetry, draws your attention to the surface of the medium. Similarly, some film,
I think really draws your attention directly towards the use of the medium. The cuts are really obvious.
You think about the use of the medium. And other film is transparent, right? The medium is skillfully
used and you just are lost in thinking about this character or the story. So games, I think, are really
similar. Some games draw your attention to the agency, but other games, like when I'm playing
limit poker, all of my attention is on other players' motivations and actions and their informational
states. So it's not really drawing my attention to my agency. It's like using a gentle medium to push my
attention somewhere else. The game matters. You talk about environment, you talk about constraints as the
medium and all of that makes sense. So it depends what game you're playing and it depends. Does it
depend also the awareness or the intention with which you're playing the game? I mean, you could play
the game so as to X, you know, like increase. Yeah. So all of that. But this is totally, I think this is not
distinctive of games. So I think some movies are really transparent to the characters. I think of,
so I feel like, you know, if you're watching a Tarantino film like that, you're super drawn to
the surfaces of the film. It's editing choices. It's so filmy, right? When I watch something like,
I don't know, an Ozu movie, like some kind of really character based thing, my natural inclination is to
pay attention to the characters and their inner lives. But I can also, if I'm thinking about it,
kind of push my attention to how the cuts are working, but that's not where this film kind of
naturally sends my attention, but I can take that attentive mode. Similarly, I feel like when I was
studying to write, I would take writing, it was super transparent, where the point was the writing
was self-effacing. And I could force myself to be like, no, I'm going to study this as a writer.
How are they making this so good? Sometimes I think there are a lot of games where the game just
kind of disappears. But when we take them apart in my game design class, we send our attention to
the rules, even if the rules are designed to disappear from your consciousness. So a lot of
this is freeform. Sorry, a lot of this is up to the player. But I think games are distinctive because
there is more up to the player. Different players can play in such radically different ways. There's more
space for agency and more space for freedom in the construction of the play experience. And that's
one of the reasons I think traditional artistic theory has had a really difficult time coping with
games because there's a lot of variation between different people's experience of a novel, but the
basic sequence of events in a novel will be the same and the words will be the same. But there's so much
variation, especially for, I mean, not just computer games, but if you think of something like tabletop
role playing, different groups will have totally different stories, totally different personalities,
totally different interactions. Although the game kind of colors and shapes them in a subtle way,
pushes them towards a particular kind of experience. But the path to the particular sequence of events
and the play experience is so much more participatory that there are really deeply different
kind of objects. Did Suits think of games as an artwork at all? What do you think?
He didn't talk about it explicitly. Okay. So I still wonder, I think games can be art.
Can they also not be art? Are they always art? Oh, that's a great question.
In the same sense that you were just describing. Yeah. So here's something I didn't say in the book.
I've been thinking about a lot. So in the book, what I mostly said was, you know, art is basically a
value term that's worth paying attention to. I think since then I figured something out. I think
one of my favorite accounts of what art is comes from this debate about the difference between art and
porn. Another subject you've written somewhat about.
Yeah. It's super interesting. It's a super interesting debate.
It is. And to me, it gets back to this awareness intention thing too, but go ahead.
Yeah. No, this is where it's going. So there's this great moment. The feminist philosopher of art,
Ann Eaton, has this passage that totally like shipped to how I think about these things, where she said,
older definitions in feminism of what it is to be porn, say porn is representations that are demeaning
and objectifying to women. And Eaton's response was, well, there's actually a lot of high art that's
really demeaning and objectifying to women, but it's also recognizable as art, even though it's
misogynistic. So that can't be exactly the difference. What's the difference? A lot of people
have taken a stab at it, but two, I really appreciate. There's one line of thinking that says something like,
porn is part of an older category called sentimental art. And what sentimental art is something that like
works on you mechanistically rather than giving you freedom to experience it as, to experience it
in the way that you want, right? In this way, I think people in this vein think that like porn is
something like, you know, a hallmark tearjerker, right? You just want one reaction.
Stimulating in certain ways.
Stimulating. It's a stimulating specific reaction.
Yeah.
Another way that some people put it is that Jerry Levinson puts it this way.
With porn, we don't care how it does the job. We just want the job done. With art, we care about
the technique and how the medium was manipulated to get the effect. And so if you buy this, then I think
for every medium, not all film is art. Some film is art and some film is porn, right? Some novels are
and some novels are porn slash sentimental slash whatever. Same with games, I think, right? Like
in either definition you take, some games are going to be open spots for us to take what we want from,
and other ones will kind of push us to move mechanically. I think actually the category of
addictive game actually has this weird relationship to sentimentality and porn because it's just
someone made a product to jerk our chain in a particular way.
Yes, that connects to things you've written about gamification and Twitter and social media and
that whole addiction stimulation. This is really hard to talk about, but I want to get into it a
little bit because when you were talking about film, you obviously seem to know a lot about film.
I also love all those people you were talking about or we could talk about. There's all these
different styles, but we're coming at it. We have a reference, we've watched a lot of film,
we've thought about how they're different. So our sensory experience of it is going to be
different. It has a lot to do with awareness and intention, but also just every film we've seen up
until this point, right? Whereas someone else who maybe has never thought about film, and they've
watched films but never thought about film as an art form, will watch a film and have a sensory
experience that's different. And both are legitimate, but there's some kind of difference there. And I
feel like that happens with games too. It can happen with social media. There's some kind of weird way in
which the more you're interacting with the thing as a medium, knowing it's a medium, it's changing or
I don't know. Yeah. I mean, this is really hard to put our finger on. And there's been, in the
philosophy, in various aesthetic theories, there's been various rebellions against the elitism of the
high arts. I think people have lost what the thing you're talking about. So I do think there's a deep
difference between approaching something as an art or with an aesthetic attitude and not, that's
completely unrelated to its highness or lowness or pop culture-ness or not, right? I think you can
approach the fanciest film this way, but you can also approach like, you know, often culturally denigrated
forms like comics and rap and games. Yeah. Or even porn. I mean, you know, we could think of porn
as art if we really want to look at it in some weird way from some weird angle.
Yes. So this is, so one of the interesting things in philosophy of art is that there are a set of
theories that think what makes art different is the object itself. And another set of theories that
think what makes art different is actually the attitude we bring to it. And then you can flip back
and forth. Stolnitz, who is loosely Kantian, thinks something like, when you come to practical objects,
you come to them with a narrow focus. You're like, here's what I want out of it. And you only pay
attention to the features in it that give you the thing you thought you wanted. This sounds a lot
like the sentimental art porn stuff, right? Like, here's the reaction I want. I'm going to watch
this movie. It's going to make me cry. Done. Bargain seals.
For the release or whatever. Yeah. Yes. For the release of whatever. Exactly.
Every time I talk about this stuff, especially at school, I have to like remind myself not to get
fired. But I mean, it really is true. We do use games and art as ways to release feelings or
tensions or, I mean, we have to talk about all of that is, it is messy, isn't it?
It is. It's super messy. But so in this theory, like what it is to approach something aesthetically,
one way you put it is, you come to it open about what it could give you and how it could get there,
right? And that, if a Stolnitzian theory is right, then the difference isn't necessarily in the work,
it's in the viewer, whether we come to it being like, okay, I just want this feeling,
if I get it, awesome. If I don't, it's bad. And a different attitude, a more open attitude that
looks to the thing to see what the thing could give us, that's open to different experiences
from the thing. And I think you can have, you can have both of those attitudes towards the game. You
can, you can see this in reviews. You can see people saying like, look, what I want from a game is
some list of like, yeah, or I want to, I want to get caught in the addictive loop of crafting and this
game gives it to me. It's great. If that game doesn't, nah, right? That's the sentimental
porny attitude. Or you can have a different attitude that's, you know, I think if you combine
the two things we said, that's open to what the thing can give you and really interested in the
relationship between the details of the thing and the overall experience, then you have a totally
different attitude and relationship. Yeah. And it's similar to the one we were talking about with the
writing and the way you craft it, and then you get into a kind of a flow. And there's this very
strange thing about thinking about what you're doing and how that changes what you're doing.
But just to say with games, I was just thinking last night, my husband really loves sports and we
live in the Netherlands, he's European, so it's mostly football, right? And American football was on
yesterday and I am from the States and I remember these games, college football, where people just go
completely mad, like completely lose themselves in this group. We were seeing it on TV and I was
thinking, could I do that anymore? I think there was a time when I could just go to a football match,
maybe when I was 17 and just be in that weird spirit. And now I think I would be way too aware
of myself in this strange atmosphere and all these people. Well, I mean, do you, is it you can't do that
or that your circumstances have changed? I mean, for me, I've never been able to get to that state
in a football stadium, but at the right dance environment, I can be, it's different, it's not,
but I can be lost in this. Yeah, that's actually a good point because I never, football was never
really the thing. I do think there's a way you can come back to it and be free in that sense and know
you're free and it's even more enjoyable. Dance is a good, a good example of that. And I do think
that's very, very wonderful. Right. And that actually is, has to do with that, uh, writing too,
when you have learned the craft and you've, and then you come back to it and then something very
exciting happens. You're in that flow, but it becomes, uh, hard to think about in terms of agency,
I think, because this is such a big word and an agent isn't agency, right? Do those, those seem to get
confused sometimes. Like when we think about games, because in your work, you show that this is,
it has a very big resonance in, uh, society and the way we interact. You're very premise in your
book about like the games, the person who's making the game is setting your agency for you in a way.
And I know I'm not saying it right. You can correct me, but this has very high stakes, doesn't it?
This is high stakes in both directions. I mean, setting, setting an agency is, that's the right way to put
it. Like, I think a game designer specifies your desires in the game and you just take it on.
This is for me, as a game player, this just makes sense, right? I mean, I play a lot of board games
with my spouse and we open the rules and then the rules just tell us whether we're cooperating or
competing. And we just like, it's funny that you walk in, you open the game and sometimes like you can
not know whether you're going to be trying to kill each other or out-compete each other or cooperating to
stop. Like, and the game just tells you and then you want that, right? So there's this found fluidity
and I do think they get shaped, right? Like some games you get plunged into a competitive agency.
Some games you get plunged into a cooperative agency. Some games you get plunged into an agency
where you're hyper-calculating little statistics about like resource efficiency. Other games you get
plunged into an agency where you're like trying to tell jokes as quickly as possible, right? These are
different goals and different actions you can take towards those goals. That's all the claim is.
Now I think it's, I mean, there's a question about whether this is dangerous or not. I think
there's some people that think it's always dangerous, right? Agency shaping is always
dangerous. I think other people think, kasha, how could you possibly worry about this? But I think
one way to put it is that if we understand any medium, artistic medium, we can see that it's
incredibly powerful. I mean, it's not weird to think that narratives are emotionally potent and
that's how they can be used for good or ill, right? That a narrative can let you explore different
emotional experiences, but it can also be used for like fascist propaganda, right? That's not surprising at
all. And all I think I'm saying is, look, what makes games powerful is that they manipulate agency.
You can use it for good or ill. What it's like to use it for ill is to use it to trap people in a
pre-specified agency with no autonomy or freedom. And that relates to that, what we were saying,
if you don't know your environment and constraints are being set, that the game is being set for you,
that's very different stakes of agency. And when you start, because you have written about
something like Twitter, and we do all live in a more gamified world now, and you've written about
that. But when you're writing a book or a novel, isn't that also giving you a chance to sort of
be within the constraints and environment of a different agency? I feel like all of our endeavors,
in a way, when it comes to creativity, at their best, we're sort of trying to share
our perspective from this space-time trajectory that we can't get out of, that's always a little
different than everyone else. And at its best, whether it's film or movies or books, we get
what you might call a pipeline. You have this beautiful thing where you say it's like opening
pipelines between two cognitive perspectives. There's this trust, right, that happens and you
connect in that. And that's what you're enjoying in the movie, in the book, in the game. But I don't
know, how are games different than these other forms of art?
I mean, there are so many forms of human expression where you're trying to communicate one
perspective through some fixed medium. And yeah, but what the medium is, is different. I mean,
of course, every artist has agency and makes decisions. The difference with games is that's
what the medium is. That's what's being transmitted, right? Like, with words, with a novel,
what you're shaping is a sequence of words that shapes a sequence of events that shapes an emotional
perspective that someone can step into. Maybe it'll... I mean, I just think the... Saying that
they're the art form of agency is just shorthand for saying the thing I said before, which I think
is distinctive about games. They give you desires and they give you abilities, and then they tell you
to do something. That's different. That's the key of the theory. Like, saying that the art of agency
is just a shorthand handle for that. That's what makes games distinctive.
Mm-hmm. That's wonderful. I just... I want to push a little more because,
as we were saying, it depends what kind of game and the stakes depend on the game and all of this.
So a board game or something, it's very clear to me, you know, what you say. That's how it's designed.
But if it becomes something like augmented reality or virtual reality, where you can forget you're in
there, or even a space like social media, where we might be kind of living in these game spaces or
mental spaces or a different kind of space than we normally think of as, like, you know, physical,
I want to ask these bigger questions about, are we trying to start to... Can we start to understand
this in a way that might be beneficial? I know this gets really tricky philosophically and everything,
but is there something about games that can help us better understand each other? Or is it just...
Should we just think of it as an activity that's not necessarily going to kind of change who you are
deep in your soul, the way a book might or art or... Let me start with a quick caveat. I don't think all
VR environments are games. This is why I think the suit's definition is a little different from a lot of
of the colloquial use. So there has to be a specified goal, otherwise it doesn't count as a game. I think
there are a lot of objects we have that colloquially call video games that aren't quite that. So old
school Minecraft, right? I think of that as a virtual environment and a virtual sandbox that doesn't
have a specific game attached. People can make it into a game. You can decide your own game. But
I mean, my kid plays it and some days he wants to do a survival game with zombies and other days he
wants to build the biggest tower. And what he's doing is using a virtual environment with a preset
toolbox to come up with different games. And I think something like World of Warcraft is going to be
really complicated because I do think people... It's a virtual environment that has a few pre-established
games, but people will shift between them, right? There's a max out points game, but there's also
a virtual reality role-playing experience that can be very non-game-like. And one of the things about
virtual reality is... I mean, it's funny because sometimes I get requests from journalists to talk
about virtual reality and I'm like, I know nothing about virtual reality. And what it is to be a virtual
reality is very distinct from what it is to be a game. So first caveat, a lot of the things that
are going on in virtual reality aren't Suits-ian games. And so they're different objects. You can play
games in them. It feels like play, I think, is the problem. You have to see play, you know, this is where
it gets very easy. It's easy to blur. Play is a different concept from games. Suits was really
clear on this. He has this great essay where he says that... He says play and games overlap sometimes,
but not always. So he had this funky definition of play that I'm not sure I believe in. He said that
what play was, was wasting normally instrumental resources for autotelic reasons. That is taking
things that were normally useful and then just doing it for the pure pleasure of it. Like playing
with your food, playing around. And he had these examples. He was like, look, a lot of games we
enter into or playing pretend. There's not the game like structure, but it is play. And he said also,
look, if you are a professional boxer who hates it, but you're making money for it and you need to
support your family, that's work, not play, but it is a game. So I think a lot of VR spaces are playful,
but here's something useful. Some people in the space distinguish between toys and games.
And the difference is that games have a goal and toys don't. They're more freeform,
but they're both forms of play. Yeah. This gets really confusing because you have the verb,
you have the noun, but sometimes a game is a verb. Is it that there's something about the game itself
that's more easily manipulated or more obviously manipulated or something?
Yeah. I mean, first I want to have like one caution. When a lot of people, when people think
about games, they tend to be looking for one value or one function they have. And I just think this is,
this is why I like medium analyses. It's like, no one thinks that novels can only do one thing.
Like a novel is something that uses words and events, and then you can do a billion different
things with novels. Games use agency and you can do a billion things with them. You can use games to
get healthy. You can use games for brain training. You can use games for free productivity. You can use
games to relax, right? There's a billion different things you can do. Right. So they don't always
have to have a goal then. No. So they have a goal, but I mean, what's really important is that for a
game, a Suthian game, there's difference between the goal and the purpose. So the goal is what you
pursue in the game and the purpose is why you do it. So for example, classic example, party games.
The goal is to win. The purpose is to have fun. And we can tell because if we lost,
we don't think our evening is wasted, right? If you lost and had fun, you're just as happy.
If you're not a terrible person with a party game, if you had a great time with your friends and you
lost, you think that it was time well spent. So what I'm talking about is games fulfill totally
different purposes. And in fact, the same game, I mean, think about running a marathon, right?
There's one goal that everyone shares to cross that finish line quickly. What are the purposes?
Some people do it to get healthier. Some people do it because they want to be the best. Some
people do it for money. Some people do it because it's going to make them like zen out and gives them
this pure experience of calm and relaxed, right?
So there's so many different purposes that different people can bring to the same game.
And pursuit of a goal by a particular constraint is often really flexible about what you can get out
of it. Like I rock climb because it shuts up the voices in my head. That's the main, it's aesthetically
beautiful. And it makes me stop thinking for a bit. Like it's, I can't stop thinking unless I have
something that intense and that's the main reason. It's not the reason everyone does it.
Uh, no writing is giving into the voices in my head.
Oh, okay. Does games do games?
Um, totally depends on the game. I think one of the reasons I, I feel like I spend most of my life
hyper verbal and, uh, games like tabletop role-playing are extensions of that, which are super fun for me,
but don't refresh that part of me where rock climbing. And I've been fly fishing a lot lately.
These are totally non-verbal, totally physical, wordless experiences. And I find them incredibly
good for departures from that close to what you've talked about as a transition zone or something like
that. I mean, are they, what's happening in that moment? Are you just, you're not at rest necessarily,
or are you just, yeah, they're, it's really funky. Like, I mean, maybe some people can just rest. I
don't rest. No, I can't, but it's weird. It's like, you were so active that it's restful or I don't know.
Yeah. Right. But I mean, it's related to what games are. Games are often artificial hyper focuses
on one part of your agency. And I feel like what it can do is, so fly fishing is very much about visual
attention to the water. It's a very, like, I think, and I do my best when all the words are gone.
Rock climbing is about intense attention to your balance and body posture. And again, words get in
the way, right? So I feel like it often, it helps you achieve, it helps you rest. Maybe some people
even just rest, but for me, resting the verbal part of my brain, it really helps to have a hyper focus
on a fully nonverbal activity. This is why I find like, I also tie flies. I was talking with some
people about how it's so similar in pleasure to crocheting. And I think like part of the similar
similarity is I, I'm absorbed in the act of precise, physical, detailed movement with my hands.
And it's like, it's all feel and it's all like tension and movement and flow. And there are no
words, words mostly get in the way. So like, I mean, one way to put it is I've always thought that games
plunge you into one aspect of your agency and give you this totalizing experience. And that often has,
and that often is an opportunity to or encourages you to shut off other parts of your agency,
which is really date. I mean, I think when you export this, the dangerous version of this is
make as much money as you can and don't worry about anything else. But it deployed as a temporary
measure. I think it's great that I have something that I can reliably do that lets me not use words for
hours at a time. It reminds me of walking. That's what I do. I find that there's something about
too, what you're describing and walking and that there's something about the continuity of it and
that you're not doing the same exact thing over and over, but there's a pattern, a recognizable pattern
that does kind of, it doesn't lull you necessarily, but, and I think that actually speaks also in,
if we go to the dangerous side of something like Twitter or something like this kind of addiction that
can come when real life is gamified too, because there's also something about that that can,
like, you feel like you don't have to think or listen to the, the words.
Yes.
Yeah. And that can be peaceful too, in a similar way.
Right.
To the rock climbing.
So maybe one way to put it is that games are focusing and focus is most powerful and dangerous.
What it is to focus is to pay attention to certain things and ignore other things. A useful way to
play games is to play a lot of different games. And what that is, it's focusing on different things
serially. That's great. Right. That means you, so I think I never really saw rocks deeply until I
started rock climbing. I never saw, you see the, you see it so differently. Like, do you, do you climb?
I'm not a climber. It's more, um, I'm walking and this, a similar thing happens, right? When you're
really looking at the environment, everything comes alive in a different way. The textures,
you start to realize things aren't solid. It's very weird in a way.
But yeah, no. So, I mean, having games heightening your attention and focus to a series of different
things over your lifetime, I think that's a broadening experience. Spending your entire life
on Twitter and focused only on the things that will get you more likes or retweets
is, I think, narrowing if you don't step back from it. I mean, it's,
focus is powerful and both abusable and usable. Like, and games are tools for a kind of focus.
Right. And this is an important point because that is a huge leap, right? Being taken by something,
having your attention taken or participating in a game, not knowing you're participating in a game.
There's a big leap between that and what we're just, what we're talking about now and like,
um, how do we open that space? This relates also to knowledge, right? Is there any connection there
between pursuit of knowledge or sharing knowledge or? Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, this is, so this is what makes games potent and dangerous. Like with a game,
you're stepping into a different sculpted agent. And it's, I mean, and one of the things is,
if the good part is that it might teach you something you don't already know, that's also
the danger because like playing a game is a jump into the unknown, but that's the same with like
other arts, right? Like having an aesthetic experience. You can't go back. You can't
unplay, unsee, unhear. And like, sometimes you don't know what's there. You open yourself up to it.
You're letting yourself enter an emotional perspective. Sometimes you learn something
and sometimes you watch a fucking Darren Aronofsky film and you have like, like, you know,
foulness trapped in your brain forever that you can never get rid of.
I know exactly what you mean. There's some things that are, I mean, violin is the right word. I think
where you don't know you're about to be changed, but you can't go back once it changes you. And it
is art, you know? Yeah. And, but that's also like, that's what makes it powerful, right? The whole point,
you might, that's why people gravitate toward it even. Right. I mean, I don't like fluidity can be
good and bad. Having new, when art in general welds new parts of souls to you. Like, hope,
hope you don't get something shitty, but also it's hard to know what, like, you know, I mean,
sometimes we know ahead of time. Um, like there are clues. I guess what I'm trying to push a little
bit is that, um, we are designing games for each other in a way. Do you, do you think games are only,
um, with the rules laid out so that you can read them in the way that you woke and then you leave
it behind? Have things blurred a little bit now where we're creating games, playing games, sometimes
learning that life is a game and not, not able to get our awareness and attention out of that long
enough to change it? Yeah. I mean, okay. One thing I should be clear about the idea that you can open
up a game and put, enter into the end for a while and step back from it. That's not guaranteed. That
is a learned skill that people may or may not have, but also like, I mean, it's also a skill that we
learn and teach people to open up a novel, enter into another emotional perspective. And at the end,
step back and be like, you know, it's, it's, I think valuable to read a book from the perspective of
a terrible person that was carefully constructed to be so, and then be able to pull back from it
afterwards. That's a skill we learn. It's a skill, but I don't, I mean, you can,
you can probably disagree, but I don't think, I think we're kidding ourselves if we think we aren't
changed by, by all of that. I mean, I've read, you know, I've read a book once and I couldn't stop
reading it, but it was awful. And I literally tore the entire thing up and like threw it in the trash
after just to try to get rid of it. I I've forgotten the name. It was literally,
I was a teenager and it was about, let's not, let's not go there, but I, it's still,
I still feel it now. And it, you know, these things change you. And I have to say, I think the games we
play change us too. I've, whether they're basketball, volleyball, chess, um, a board game, a video game,
in my experience, they changed the way I think a little bit. They changed my sensory experience of
the world. After I've been playing games, I I'm entering, I see the world differently.
Um, I don't know. I think we're kidding ourselves to say that we can open anything up and put it
away and not be changed. You know, I think it's just terrifying to realize that's, that's true
about everything. That's true about people and novels and schools. It's true about everything.
I mean, the disposable anything in the games book is just about the victory condition. Like I try to
win for these points. That's why I stopped caring about,
but there are all kinds of ways you're thinking could be habituated by.
At the end of the books, one of the things I worry about is I think that there are a lot of people
who have worried mostly incorrectly that games might habituate you to be violent because I think
that empirical research shows that that doesn't happen mostly because we know it's fiction. But I
worry that playing games habituates people to expecting quantified value systems. Like that's a,
that's not the specific goal of the game. That's something more general. Let me say,
so the other thing I've written a lot about is trust. And I think, um,
trust is the essential mode of being for people in this world, right? Um,
so a lot of philosophers, but we were talking about Elijah Milgram on email, but Elijah Milgram
changed a lot about how I think about epistemology and philosophy by really putting words to this like
kind of inchoate thought that we are no longer in an era where we can have intellectual autonomy,
that the key characteristic of our era is hyper-specialization. And that means to conduct
ourselves, we're constantly having to trust, trust beyond what we can manage.
Sometimes I take my students in an epistemology class to an exercise and the exercise is just
how many people have you trusted with your life in the last five minutes?
At first they're like, no one. And they're like, oh, wait, we're trusting this building not to fall
down. How many we're trusting in you? Yeah. You're trusting the drivers on the street. You're trusting
the brake mechanics. You're trusting the science that they use. Like how many statistics? So,
quickly what you see is that your trust runs completely out of your control, completely out
of your sight, that your life depends on people you have no idea who they are. And I think the
experience I have of this is vertigo, right? It's not quite terror. It's just like, holy shit.
So, Annette Beyer, who's my favorite, one of my favorite philosophers ever, she has this paper,
Trust and Antitrust, which I love. And what she says is the core of trust is vulnerability.
What it is to trust is put something of yourself and somebody else's power. And that's what makes
it valuable, right? That we are letting, otherwise we're limited to our own powers and our own
management. Like, and this is, this is true with like kind of interpersonal trust, trusting my
teachers with my kids life. But it's also true with like, I'm on antibiotics right now. I have no
idea what's in it. I, right. I trusted somebody.
Mm-hmm. Games seem like a way where you can learn how to trust, look at that trust a little
bit. Start to look at the patterns by which you've already since birth been trusting.
Yes. There are so many games that are about trust. There are so many tropes about how team sports do
this, but it is like, one of the things you learn is how to work as a precise coordinated unit and
just trust someone absolutely. That's also kind of dangerous in a way, but also it's something you can
learn to do. But the thing I wanted to say is, I think there's a deep trust involved in any artistic
experience because you're opening your emotional self. You're opening yourself to transformation
in ways that you can't expect. And I think without it, we don't grow, right? But we also let
shit into our heads. And this is the terrifying vulnerability again. I mean, I think what you said
is true of games, but it's true of everything. Every friendship, every novel, every movie can change
you irrevocably. And if you refuse them all, you'll be a static being who doesn't grow. And also,
if you try it and you put your trust in a bad thing, it will shit in your brain and there's no
way around it because you can't know ahead of time what it is exactly. You can try. You can use guides.
You carefully figure out who might be a good guide about what's going to be good and what's going to
shit in your brain. But in the end, you're just opening yourself over and over again.
Last question then. Is love ever a game?
If it is, it's a terrible one.
I mean, I think we have expressions like, don't play games with my heart.
And I think there, I mean, actually, I think I put it in the book. I almost cut it out.
But there's a part where I say that what games are and what love is, is opposite.
What games are, is being able to be totally disattached to an end, be able to put it aside
and put it away again and just use it instrumentally. Right?
Yeah. That's what I was hoping you'd get to.
Yeah. It's committed devotion or something like that. It's non-disposable. It's non-fungible. It's
non-fluid. So I think they're really different.
Yeah. It's more like that trust state, but it's also, you can also start to realize it and still
give way to it, I guess. Yeah.
Yeah. But you can love a game.
Yeah.
I love rock climbing with all my heart.
Yes, definitely. In many kinds of ways as well, of course. But thank you to you for talking and
good luck with the rest of your day there.
Thank you so much.
All right. Be well.
