Hey, Perry. Thanks for joining us on Love and Philosophy.
Thanks so much for having me.
So this is a podcast about the love in philosophy. Exploring the love and how
love informs the ways that we know and the ways that we move. And I wonder in all your work on
curiosity studies and developing it and in your recent book, Curious Minds with your twin Danny,
if you've thought much about this word, there is a point where you say that when you were getting
ready to write the book, you were thinking about what do we love as humans. And so I wonder,
have you thought much about these two words in connection?
You know, I haven't thought a whole lot about it.
As you ask it, I'm reminded that in early Latin work on curiosity, curiosity was connected to
desire and lust and love. And it was particularly located in that kind of nexus of affects.
And I think today we talk a little bit about curiosity, you know, when things we're super
curious about as also things we really love to know and think about. So it seems like there is
an implicit connection with them. I haven't really spent a whole lot of time sussing it out. But one
of the things I might say is in my earlier book, Curiosity and Power, I said that curiosity really needs
companions to be its best self. And I think love might be a companion for curiosity that would
help it be its best self. So I think we can get into trouble with our curiosity. I think we can
exercise curiosity that is more appropriative or objectifying, but love, like real love, real
relational affection and connection would help guide curiosity, again, to develop forms of knowledge and
inquiry and experimentation that respect the relationship in which it sits.
What about the idea of the love of wisdom or the love of the love that motivates you to be curious or
to pursue a subject? Have you thought much about that? And also, I'm wondering about your own path
and what sort of led you to the work that you're doing? Because I think it was seven or eight years of
research that went into the book that you did, and you've written many, many papers, and you're
more or less developing a new field of curiosity studies. So I wonder what motivated that and if
there's any relation to this love of wisdom or desire for knowledge? Yeah, I mean, there must be in some
way, right? I love that you're pulling on the love of wisdom, right, which is the translation of the word
philosophy itself. And I do think that I did fall in love with philosophy in my first, really in high
school and then in one of my first college classes. And one of the things, I think the primary thing I
loved about philosophy was how kind of rascally curious it was, and its willingness to ask questions
in areas that can tend to be kind of put off by other fields or other value commitments and philosophy
says, why not? Let's ask about it. Let's really look into it. And that insistent inquiry was in fact
one of the things that made me love the love of wisdom or philosophy. And yeah, so I went into
philosophy for those reasons. It opened up my world in all kinds of ways. I think I had grown up in a
really restricted intellectual environment where I wasn't encouraged to ask a whole lot of questions
about certain things and I needed more room and philosophy gave me more room. And then my twin,
Danny, they were similarly sort of reaching out for new spaces to be and to explore and they went into
physics. And we went, you know, we did our undergraduate degrees and then we did our graduate degrees and
then we are twins. And so this was an important moment in which we distinguished ourselves and our
identities and our loves and our passions as distinct. Well, I'm into philosophy and you're into
physics. And so that makes us different. But then it turned out, you know, that we were actually trying
to understand the same, some of the same things. So Danny was studying learning and neural flexibility
and I was writing a dissertation on curiosity and a book on curiosity before our work together. And we thought,
you know, there's really a resonance here. And what would it mean to bring our very different fields
together around the same and similar question? So that's really what gave rise to curious minds.
In this book, you redefine curiosity in a way, don't you, from the traditional historical
notion of it. Maybe you want to tell us a little bit about about that, this idea of curiosity as
connection or not as acquisitional, but as more like a capacity or a practice. I think you
you use that word a lot, practice. Yeah. Yeah. So curiosity is, I am really interested in thinking
about curiosity as a practice. It has been conceptualized primarily as a desire or a motivation
or an interest to know new information or to fill information gaps. So motivation to fill information
gaps is really the way in which it's described in psychology. And then a desire to know is more of the
older, more ancient philosophical perspective. But these desires and these motivations tend to be really
located in an individual human. And I wanted to think about curiosity socially. So I'm a political philosopher
by training. I think that most things can't be understood just from the individual level.
And so I really wanted to think about curiosity at the social level. And to do that, I needed to think
about it as a practice, something that we do to and with and next to one another. So curiosity as a
practice, but then a practice of what exactly? And again, historically, curiosity has been thought of as
this need to sort of grasp new information, to go out, get the new piece of information and kind of own it
and use it in whatever way we want to do. But I thought that misses something about what curiosity
is actually up to. Because curiosity really, just independent pieces of information don't help you
do a whole lot, right? And aren't particularly meaningful. The reason that we're curious about
something is because it's connected to what we already know, or what we're already invested in,
or to people we care about, or to communities we care about, or to the earth we care about.
And so in that sense, I thought, you know, working with Danny, I was thinking about curiosity as
relational. And then I was working with Danny, and we were thinking about curiosity as networked,
or as a network, a drive for network knowledge building. And it's between those two positionalities,
you know, curiosity is relational, and curiosity is networked, that we came to this, this conceptualization
of curiosity as a capacity to connect. So then you can get that social and relational resonance,
but you can also get that network science resonance. Yeah, I really love that. And I love
how you did this grasping or getting or acquiring motion in terms of the way we often think about
curiosity, or the way we need to get information, have information. And that's very different from
the book in the way that you both in your different chapters write about it as an exploration, as a
movement. It's, it's always like a walk, which we'll get to, but it's a very different kind of bodily
presence with others and with the world in a way. And just to kind of unpack that a little bit,
you also think about curiosity as edge work, I'd like to hear you talk about if it's the same thing
for you or what this word really means. And I also wonder, just kind of as a side note, in my own work,
or history, this idea of edge work has come as a connected to risk from the writer Hunter S Thompson,
you probably know about that him talking about the edge is the place that you only know if you go over
it. And he actually uses this word edge work. And then I think Stephen Lane kind of picks it up
in the 80s or 90s in psychology and talks about it as people who, who take great, great risks that are
almost not rational towards pursuing the edge. So I just wonder if you've thought about that side of
it at all, or yeah, how this connects to the curiosity for you. Yeah, so we do explore curiosity
as edge work in the book. And that's a way to try to put feet to this concept of curiosity as
connectional. So if curiosity is this capacity to build and to make connections, and those connections
might be old, but those connections might be near. But if curiosity is this capacity to make connections,
one way to talk about that is as building edges between nodes, or as edge work.
And so that that term really helps bring out some resonance resonances in network science. But it also
helps bring out resonances in kind of aesthetic theory and ecology, which is where I ran across the term.
In kind of aesthetic or ecological perspectives, edge work is this trying to build and live and
create in liminal spaces, or to exist and survive in liminal spaces. And there's all kinds of liminal
ecologies and liminal aesthetic kind of spaces. And so that's where this word edge work was sitting for me
anyway. And is there a risk involved? Sure, sure. I think I think there must, insofar as the edge,
an edge would be at least in networks network science, right, the edge would be something that's
connecting or relating to different pieces. So the edge itself, at least from a network perspective,
doesn't have to be the edge of the world or the edge of a thought or the, you know, the furthest point
that one could reach. And yet curiosity does seem to be in its edge work or its or its edge laying
capacity to be trying to reach these places that are on our periphery, right? Because it's,
it's part of this attempt to build knowledge out from where it is or in from where it is.
And that that does create certain certainly certain risks, especially for the knowledge
network as it stands already. So if we're building edges out and in the existing knowledge network,
the network itself and the shape and the, and the hubs and the emphases of it and the flows of it
will necessarily hopefully change and have some kind of flexibility. So I like that resonance. I don't
know this particular work that you're, that you're citing by Thompson and Ling, but I'm excited to go down
that rabbit hole.
Yeah. It's a different idea of it, but it's the same word. So that's interesting. And for me,
it was very strange to see the edge work as the way you used it and to kind of realize, oh,
I'd never thought of that before being so interested in complexity science and nodes and edges. And
somehow it was definitely a beautiful moment to think of edge work in that way. But I'm still trying
to figure out too, how there seems, it seems so rich, right? Because it depends on what position
from which you're moving, what would the edges would be in both of these takes of edge work.
And also that position would or would not be taking more risk depending on how you might look at it
from another position. If we think of it socially or whatnot, which makes me think of sort of pioneers
or people who really set out to explore places or even force other people to recognize places that
they've been or have been living in that haven't been seen before. Do you think curiosity plays a role
in that, in this sense of pioneering politically, socially, also in terms of just the science that we're doing?
I think it does. And I think it can. I would say that, so, you know, pioneering and discovery
and innovation, these things, for me, these things are double-edged swords.
Even the very word pioneer is kind of...
Right. There's, you know, there's, there's several layers there. And so I think that it's,
it's helpful to think about curiosity in relationship to those terms, because I think it draws out
the complexity of the word curiosity itself. So curiosity, yeah, can push us into new intellectual
spaces. And those intellectual spaces can be more liberatory in some cases and can provide knowledge
that really improves our ability to be decent humans to one another and decent humans to the planet.
But that curiosity can also do the opposite, right? It can give us tools to be more extractive of the
earth to, let's say, building more hierarchies and, and kind of inequities between humans.
So I think curiosity does push us in these ways toward pioneering discoveries and, and innovations.
But again, it needs companions to do its best work. It needs to be kind of in community with other
things like love, or I talk about ambiguity and opacity and kind of ways in which we don't always
have to know everything or use the knowledge in all the ways that we can. Sometimes we need to respect
the things that we're trying to come to know and let them exist in the way that they already exist,
rather than changing and using.
I love that. I love the idea of the companion instead of it's too simple to just say curiosity
is good always or bad always. Yeah. So that really offers something to, to help us understand where
the values matter and when curiosity can be harmful or helpful. I do want to ask you about complexity.
And when this idea of complexity science came into your world, or I guess with Danny and their work,
it's definitely more, um, I mean, it's very much a part of, of that neuroscience. And I wonder if it
was already part of your work before they brought it into your world writing this book or yeah. What,
when did you first sort of encounter complexity science in this, in the way that you're using
it with edges and nodes and so on? Yeah. So there's some, um, network theory that really predates
network science and was more commonly, um, developed in sociology and in some social philosophies in the
seventies and eighties. And so I was already familiar with some of that work. Um, and then of course,
working closely with Danny, I became more aware of network science, uh, and the way in which
complexity is used specifically in context. What's really helpful for this book for curious minds,
um, was to think about the brain and the ways in which if you look at really early, like phrenology
illustrations, people were locating curiosity or wonder or attention in one specific area of the
brain and saying, that's the thing that that's the place that lights up. And in fact, that we continue
to get this question. What's the part of the brain that's responsible for curiosity? The, uh, the development
of, you know, complex systems and network neuroscience has really shown us that the brain works in concert
with it, you know, all of the parts in some way. And really the question is what are the pathways and
what are the conversations within it that allow something like curiosity to manifest itself in the
world? And that has opened up, I mean, on the one hand that becomes frustrating that, well, what is
curiosity and what is the neural basis of curiosity? And how do we, if it's not one part, then how can we
really say, oh, this is the neural basis? You know, right now we know that there are multiple systems
involved. Um, but, uh, at the same time it opens up, it helps us to start to see emphases, right? The
attentional emphases, um, for example, or, uh, the hippocampal entorhinal system and its capacity to allow us
to navigate social spaces and geographical spaces, but also conceptual spaces. So we can start to pull out,
um, as we attend and attune to those, um, various systems in the brain that are activated in
curiosity, we can start to see elements of curiosity we may not have attended to. They might have all
been glumped together in a not very precise definition of curiosity, but we can start pulling
those pieces apart and analyzing them separately. The more we can appreciate that there are multiple
systems in place, not only neurological systems, um, but also social systems. So complexity science,
of course, can help us understand social systems as well. Um, if the more we can understand the
multiple systems involved in, uh, inquiry in the practice of inquiry in our individual minds and in
our shared, shared worlds, the more curiosity can come a lot and we can see it as a really a practice
of many gradations, right? So that, so that it's not just like you're curious or you're not curious,
um, but rather how are you curious and maybe you manifest it in this way or you direct it this way or
you practice it this way. Um, and this can change, this can change how we use curiosity in our just
everyday kind of attempts to discover or to improve workplaces. Um, but it can also change how we
structure educational spaces. That's wonderful. I think, yeah, opening the space and it's not either
or you're curious or you're not. It's more of how are you curious in the world? In the book, you discuss
different styles of curiosity and also different ways of walking. And I'd like to sort of talk about
both of those and maybe how they are or might be connected. But first, maybe just
the, the styles of, of being curious, the busybody and the hunter and the dancer, maybe you could just
give us a little brief recap of those different ways. Yeah. Sure. So I think typically curiosity,
um, and you know, I, I work in, in higher education and so I see this kind of every day, but most people
think about curiosity in very similar ways as being evident, um, in another human being, if that human
being asks a lot of questions, um, is pretty verbal, pretty interactive, uh, maintains close eye contact,
um, is often raising their hand or trying to like, uh, unmake something or remake something. They're just,
there's just a lot of active engagement that's very evident to an looker. That's typically how curiosity has been
perceived. But that loses all kinds of depth, I think, to, to curiosity and diversity to curious, uh, practices.
So the, the styles, the busybody and the hunter and the dancer help us zoom in and say, okay, actually there's
different ways of being curious and that are really quantifiably different. And, and so the busybody is
somebody who's interested in, uh, sort of all kinds of things and, and tends not to settle down, but, um,
creates these really loose knowledge networks, right? They're, they're, they welcome many different
pieces of information to kind of sit in their brain together. Whereas the hunter is someone who's much
more focused and tends to want to know everything about a small subset of, of, of things. So they're far
more likely to create really tight knowledge networks and really try to fill in all the holes,
the holes between those, et cetera, et cetera. And then the dancer is someone who's really creative
when they're curious. So they don't just want to know, pass down information, but as they're
investigating and as they're experimenting, they want to be creating. So they tend to put, um,
information together that didn't belong together from disparate areas of, of intellectual space and say,
what happens if we put these in the same room? What happens if we make them talk to each other?
You know, what happens if I create, um, through my curiosity and these styles are styles I developed
by looking at, uh, thousands of years of history of, of Western intellectual thought, uh, when folks
have described curious behavior, because again, I'm really interested in curious behavior and curious
practice. What does it look like when we're doing? And these seem to be three styles or types that were
really common historically. And it turns out, you know, working with Danny, I was able to, or we were
able to establish that these are also alive and well today. It really resonates and it's, it's helpful.
As you say, no one is only one of these at all times in their life or even in the same day necessarily.
And you also point out there are many other ways of being curious and you even offer a sort of bestiary,
which is really great in the appendix of various other ways of thinking about this. So there are many
ways to think about it and you definitely make that clear, but I do think it's also helpful to give a
little bit of structure and to show how these ways are different, um, so that we can become more aware
of them. So it opens the space of what's curious and how that might be manifesting in the people around
us. It speaks to what you were talking about with complexity science of how now, um, you don't have to
look at it as either or one or the other, but there's many different ways of thinking about this nested and
multidimensional, um, system of nodes and edges and the different places from which they connect.
I wonder in your work, if, if you found sort of shapes or topographies that fit to these, um,
different ways of, of being curious and if they overlap, are there places also where,
where they overlap a lot in terms of their shape, so to speak.
And you're asking specifically about the busybody, the hunter and the dancer or more generally?
Yeah. Or just in different, in different, uh, I, I guess I'm trying to understand what would be
sort of the farthest ones from one another, because these are kind of, as you, as you show in the book,
it's really about the ways that we're thinking and the ways that we're moving through the world
in a sense. And when we start to think about like your work of how do things change or, um,
how might we find better ways of, of being curious or also recognizing different forms of curiosity?
Um, I just wonder, are there places in that, in that space that are farther apart,
uh, that are less likely to acknowledge one another? Um, or are there, are they all sort of
overlapping in similar ways in terms of their topographies?
Yeah, this is so interesting. I mean, my, I, I get the question fairly often about, um,
um, how to say this, uh, folks, folks on the left politically, uh, really tend to think of themselves
as curious, um, as, as interested in willing to take risks and to, um, engage with diversity,
um, and they perceive typically, uh, uh, those on the right as being more, um, entrenched and less
willing to, uh, again, engage with diversity or change values and systems of belief.
Um, but I think, I think it's honestly having sort of, we both, Danny and I have a, you know,
a, a family that's pretty split down the middle of this particular divide.
Uh, I think it's important to ask, again, where, how curiosity is showing up in these different
communities. So I think I'm going to answer this at a community level. The busybody and the hunter
and the dancer are simply locatable on, uh, one political spectrum or the other, but rather
in each of these sort of worlds, political worlds, they're going to manifest themselves differently,
but they'll be there. Uh, and, but they won't necessarily be recognized
from outside of that world as being busybody like curiosity or hunter like curiosity or
dancer like curiosity. Uh, that seems important. And maybe another way I would tackle this is to
talk about, you know, I, I do some work on, uh, social movements and specifically social justice
movements. And I think the perception of people who don't want that particular, uh, group to flourish
or to, or to win whatever is being one, um, tend to see, tend to see social movement activists,
social justice activists as simply hammering down the, like, uh, we know what's right and we're not
changing our minds and we want to fix it and we're going to fix it this way to see that the social
justice activist as a domineering knowledge holder. Whereas I think if we analyze from within the movement
itself, we tend to see a lot of curious behavior. So like, what really is the problem we're trying
to figure out and who should be leading this movement? How is it that we're going to fix the
thing that we want to fix? So the perceptions again, of who is curious and how are really different based
on social position or which kind of hubs you're sitting in within the network, the social network of
ideas? That's important. And I think it's important to broadly stretch out and to, and to resist the
temptation to think that knowledge is some kind of universal system that we're all just adding pieces
to and that we all build the, are building the same structure. No, knowledge is like, knowledge is this
complex, uh, system with lots of different hubs and nodes and levels, et cetera, and registers. And,
some of those don't talk to each other, right? They're so stretched out and far apart. And others
of them are really resonating or fighting in some way. But there are links and threads that you can
trace between them. And I think it would be maybe curiosity as edge work that would help us kind of
break down the current polarizations in the network of knowledge structures and allow us to hear and work
with one another better. Excellent. Yes. Thank you for, you sort of switched the camera angle there because
I think I was thinking of curiosity itself as the patterns and the habits, but actually, yeah,
it's much wider, right? The, the, it's almost developmental how we come at knowledge and build
patterns and what we think of as knowledge. And it is in many different dimensions. And yeah, so there,
we may all be curious in similar ways and that might even make us think that we
think that we have had similar experiences or share similar experiences now or yeah. And actually,
that's not the case really. It's, um, so there's something else where we have to really
step back even further and see the larger landscape in a, in a different way. And maybe that gets us to
this idea of walking that you talk about. There's different kinds of walks. I wonder if that relates to,
if you've thought about that in terms of, um, development and how, what one encounters in one's
life leads one to walk in a certain way, for example, at certain times to walk these kinds of landscapes,
be they, uh, mental or physical, um, experiences.
Yeah. Yes. I am. Yeah. I'm obsessed with walking. So if I could write, if I could write another book
on walking, I would. Uh, so I do think about this a lot about the, how we develop our walks. Um,
when I'm actually talking, talking about physical walks. So I do think that each of us develops how
it is that we physically walk in a world, not just where we walk and when we walk and how long we walk,
et cetera, et cetera. Um, but also just the, how the walk sits in our body. Uh, the point of the gate.
I think you talk about that. Yeah, exactly. And that's, um,
that's important for all kinds of reasons, because I think there are, there are ways of signaling
belonging through our walks or signaling otherness or foreignness or difference in our walks that can
like create community and or create rifts, uh, or acts of violence. Right. So I do work in LGBT studies
and this is one of the, uh, one, one topic that comes up fairly regularly there. Um, but then how we
walk in, in conceptual spaces is also very socially inherited in a lot of different ways. So the,
the path that I will take, um, to answer a question that you asked me today will have a lot to do with
how I've been trained, um, and what kind of patterns of thinking I've been most familiar with. Um, and
that, so, so yeah, we're walking, we're walking all the time when we're talking to each other as much as
when we're striding, you know, across a field. Um, and that, that means, yeah, just, yeah, that I think,
as you know, I think, and, and are aware and care about this has to have, uh, multiple disciplines
involved in kind of thinking it through. Yeah, absolutely. I always think of walking literally as
cognitive and in this way of how we learn how to do it and also how we hold ourselves and how we
assume that others think it is or is not proper and so on and so on. There's so much there, but
I guess what I would, I'm trying to get at is, so we're talking about physical space, physical walking
and how this is also a way to understand how we walk through, um, languages and ideas and our kind
of collection of knowledge, what we think we know. And we're also talking about how those are,
can be very, very different from those around us. So I guess I'm wondering in your work how you've
noticed that people recognize, um, that there are other ways of walking and other ways of thinking.
And, and, um, and if you've noticed any patterns or habits that are helpful for, for just becoming more
aware that there are many different ways to walk in, in the spaces that we, that we share.
This makes me think of the word method, which, um, which refers to being on track of something.
And, and I think that oftentimes, uh, with methods in various fields of inquiry, there's a, this is how
you do it. There's just one way to do it. And so we don't really think about it as kinds of walks,
but rather this is how you get from there here to there. You ask the question, you answer it this way.
The, um, so it doesn't even feel, it doesn't even feel like a walk. Uh, but in fact it is, it is a method is
and there are, there's, it's important consistently, I think for us to return to the fact that methods
are always under, um, up for debate, right. And under critique and there's constant push and tug, um,
to try to say, well, the, the method or the path should move. We should be asking questions in this
way, or we should be asking questions in that way or pursuing our knowledge this way or that way.
Um, how we ask our questions and where we gather our information and what we, how we organize that
information and then how we, uh, share and disperse it. There's, there's many ways and each, each,
each way has something not only disciplinarily at stake, but also certainly socially at stake.
Um, and so I think one of the things I think about from your question is not just a kind of everyday
way in which people may not appreciate how many different walks there are in our everyday lives,
but also, uh, academically, I think that, that disciplines continue to be really, um, put out
by the multiplicity of walks there actually are. And there's a constant trying to like, come on,
come on, come on, come on, you know, let's reign these in and let's do it the right way. And let's
do it in a way that's traditionally sort of more traditionally expected or more recently established,
whatever the thing is. Uh, and I think it limits how we get to ask our questions and then what we
get to see when we're taking those walks. Exactly. And you bring up a lot of great examples of people
who, um, wanted to take walks that were interdisciplinary in this way, or just seemed
like kind of crazy by asking certain questions of the research that they wanted to do or, or whatever
that other people thought that you can't possibly do that, or you have to rein yourself in and choose
one subject. Or there's many examples you give in the book, but those ways do, if one persists,
I mean, this pioneer idea or persistence, um, those ways of walking do, can become their own, uh,
paths and sets for, for other people to follow and, and to come on. I mean, not that you can have
exactly the answer to this, but why so many of us do feel kind of threatened by new forms of walking and
new paths. When at the same time, we also seem to, um, hold those up too, at some point as, as knowing
that they're the change makers, the things that have changed the world in a positive way. I imagine
you've had to deal with this tension a lot and with trying to, to sort of figure out where, where is
the point where one can just be aware and attentive and kind of open the space to new paths without
being reactionary or if the reactionary part is necessary. I don't know. Um, any thoughts?
Yeah. That's a tough one. You know, I, uh, I think about, I often tell this story of the,
the first time I floated the idea of writing a dissertation on curiosity. And one of my advisors
saying, no one's written a book on curiosity, so you can't, um, and that still sticks with me that,
there is no book on curiosity yet in philosophy. So therefore you can't write one.
Because there isn't one yet because there's nothing to like, it seems the opposite should
be true. And it seems the opposite should be true. Like, great. There isn't one yet. Go do it.
You know? Um, but I think in microcosm, this is, this is some, you know, related to what,
what you're talking about here. Um, I wonder, and this is not my field, right? I'm more, uh, psycho
therapeutic social, social psychotherapy question, but, um, maybe it could also be a neuroscience
question. Um, you know, we, we need to save energy, intellectual energy where we can, there's
just too much to process and too much to work through, um, to actually take every single question
and every new pathway just as seriously as next, right? We would never move. Um, and so I think
that in some way that instinct to kind of chair down all the possibilities into some manageable
frame of a few is one of the reasons that people do restrict, I think, discipline, new disciplinary
paths. You know, there's just a, that's too, that's going to be too energy intensive and who knows if it's
going to pay off and it's just distracting from the thing we know works. So let's just keep doing
this. So I do, I do think there's some probably basic neural, uh, uh, basis for this, for this
instinct. And yet it's obviously a perennial challenge. I mean, if we think about any, the
history of philosophy, if we think about the history of science, you know, it's just people have to
constantly say, no, I really think this is, this is the new question. This is the new path and
we're going to do it. And sometimes it gets taken up and completely changes the field. And sometimes
it doesn't, sometimes it pitters out and that's the end. And that person's not super remembered.
And that's just a part of the story of, of fields and social life.
Though all those paths are usually parts of bigger paths, even when they're sort of
dead ends, I think they open new, new ways, perhaps even in, in subjects or questions or fields,
they didn't mean to. Um, but I love that. I love that. I would love to hear more about dead ends.
Like, well, I give like walking paths of thought and dead ends. That's yeah. Because I just, I was
talking to someone about for, for, about motoring, how we're changing to electric. And, uh, the scholar
said, yeah, well, some people will spend their whole lives trying something new and it's a dead end.
And, and I mean, maybe it's the idealistic part of me that thinks, no, there's no dead end,
but I just, in terms of even complexity or science or something, you can't really
explore without opening new paths for other people. It's just that it might not be what you had in mind
for yourself that you wanted to achieve or something. So I've been thinking about that in
terms of like branching and, and how, how, where you, depending on where you move the,
the measuring point, the vantage point, how those kinds of paths realign. It's interesting.
Yeah. It's fascinating. I love it.
It reminds me of your idea of this connect being connected rather than
acquisitional, which I think is just a wonderful way to think about curiosity too, because there's
something about the idea of a dead end even, or not getting what you want, or I don't know. It's,
it also feels binary to me and, um, like stuck in one either or mindset, uh, rather like we have to
get all the information and we have to somehow do what we said we were going to do. I don't know.
There's something about it that feels very, the power of it is different. It's, uh, it's turned in a
different direction than I think this kind of curiosity that you explain in the book or demonstrate
this practice, um, which is more about getting out of that space in a way. And I don't know, opening,
opening it. Does that make any sense? Yeah. So a connectional theory of
curiosity would not really allow for moments of failure or, or dead ends, but would always
create these grants that, um, that new connections have been laid and whether those connections
are useful now or useful 300 years from now or never useful, isn't really the point. It's more,
it's more of the making of the connections and being part of this process of growth really.
Exactly. And also for me, it calls into question this notion of I and the way we define ourselves and,
um, in that larger space and being able to dance and maybe understand that self is not what you
thought it was that, that opens up if you, if you can sit with that a little bit.
Yeah. Yeah. I love that. It's so funny. You know, I do write about dancing in the mind and I'm,
but I'm not, but I'm not a dancer in my body, but I do think, I do think there's something really
wonderful about thinking about the dance of ideas and being a part of it.
Mm-hmm. Or even just, I guess I meant this movement too, where you're not necessarily linear.
Yeah. But still there's a flow or a rhythm or something like this, which in that case,
you're definitely a dancer in the writing. Right.
I wonder how you think about like how this is connected to other forms, like how we,
might be too big of a question or, but if I don't think so, but with your other work, um,
to bring it in a little bit, like how this, uh, notion of curiosity helps us think about other
political issues, social issues, but also ecological issues, other forms of life and our connection to
them and their curiosity. Um, be they other humans or plants or, you know, animals in a way,
is there a way to think about curiosity as not just human, I guess is what I mean, or not just,
um, one human individual. Yeah. Yeah. I love this question because yeah, my critique in general of
the traditional theory of curiosity has been that it's acquisitional in nature and that it's
individual really instead of social. Um, but there should be a third level of that critique
that it's anthropocentric, um, curiosity. It, it presumes that curiosity is a human capacity
and a merely human capacity or an only human capacity. And this is repeatedly stated and most
curiosity, people who study curiosity would claim that still today, thousands of years ago and today,
that the curiosity is a human, uh, distinctly human marker or characteristic. But, um, and I, and I
honestly think that divide has been incredibly, uh, uh, has been really heavily involved in the human
animal, human world relationships that have developed such that we use how many thousands,
millions of, of animals for our research without thinking about, yeah, without thinking about their
lives and their, their, uh, communities and their ecologies. And trajectories and
yeah. Yeah. And then also our, and their ways of walking. Yeah. And then also our, our use of,
of the earth's natural resources, right? Our curiosity to do whatever it is that we want to do
with the stuff that is around us, instead of thinking about its role, the resources, the earth's
resources role in many other, um, again, livelihoods of, of multiple beings and futures. So if we had
thought from the beginning of curiosity as a more than human capacity, um, a capacity that we share with
other animals like ourselves and unlike ourselves, as well as plants and perhaps even solar systems,
right? I don't, or I mean, universes, one could think of the creativity of, of a universe as, as being
curious in some way as expanding and creating, and then, um, coming back in that, that might be a model
for, for curiosity itself. So I don't know if we thought about it in this, in this much, much greater
perspective, would we have behaved differently? And would we be in a different place with respect to the
other beings we share, um, this space with? Yes, I think absolutely yes. So I'm very interested,
you know, in the book we talk about, we have a bestiary of curiosity in which we are looking
at other creatures as models of curiosity, but I think we could, there, there's so much more to be
here to think curiosity at a more ecological level. I think it's wonderful in the book how connected you
are. The work is to other forms of life. It's, it's very, very connected to plants and animals and so on.
It's a part of, you know, every chapter in some way. And it almost made me think in a way that we
could be the curiosity of those creatures. If you think of it in terms of evolution and, you know,
all these many, many different forms of life, trying many different paths and so on. Our curiosity
about the plant and the animal is it's, is in a way its own curiosity. I love that such that our
curiosity, I like that because then human curiosity is not the origin of curiosity, but you're suggesting
actually human curiosity is the result of, um, what is it? Other animal and fungal?
It's participating in, I think there's a kind of movement, right? If you really think of it as a
practice and a movement in the way that you lay out in the book and even all the different little
animals and what we've learned from them and the way you lay it out in the bestiary, there's something
already, there's some, there's a thread there that was never disconnected.
I don't know how to articulate it perfectly yet, but there's a way in which if we could get our
stuff together as humans, our curiosity could be a beneficial curiosity for those other creatures too,
you know? Yeah. I love that. That's really great.
Yeah. Well, your book made me think of it. So, uh, I really love that at the end of the book, you
talk about, uh, the future through this idea of cracks. That's like very, it's like broken and
crack and destruction future, but it's also very hopeful and optimistic and, uh, also just, uh,
neutral in a way. But this is wonderful, this idea of cracks, and I just want to think about it a
little bit. And I also want to bring up the name of someone who I've never been able to say very well.
Maybe you can help me, Gloria. Anzaldua. Say it again. Could you help me? Anzaldua. Anzaldua.
Okay. So this idea that cracks are where the light gets in. Uh, I love that you think about the future
in that way and the way you present it in the book and it kind of opens up, you know, you just feel
the book sort of branching and letting you, letting you sort of fly. Um, how did that come into being?
And yeah, just tell me what you think about Gloria too, if she can. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, this is,
there were, there were, there were moments of the book that were more, um, absolutely delightful
discoveries or experiments, um, than others. One was the walking, the notion of walking and bringing it,
bringing the philosophy of walking together with the, with the network science of walking. That was,
that was one of the highlights of writing this book with Danny. And then another was,
was cracks when we stumbled upon cracks. Um, so it came about because, um, we'd written the whole book
as this, as curiosity, as this capacity to build connections and that building connections was
the primary thing. But the more we were talking about it, obviously experiencing it and noticing our
own curiosities, um, we were, we realized, you know, and even in, you know, network science, there's,
there's a degeneration of edges. It's not just the edges get built, but they also degenerate and they
become lost or become broken and then new ones form. And, and so we wanted to capture that
deconstruction as much as the, you know, construction that is emphasized throughout the
whole book. What, what is it when things break or when things, yeah. Right. Oh, and that was just,
it was just too fun because we can talk about cracks in a network sense. We can talk about it in a
geographical, uh, or geological sense. Yeah. Archaeological. It's all there. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Cracking eggs, insect wings. I mean, like it's amazing. Yeah. Yeah. And then obviously the
psychology of cracks or the, as you're, you're pointing out this, the sociology, right. When,
when are the cracks in our perceptual worlds and our social worlds happen and how does that open something
for our futures or for hope? And I am really interested, consistent. I keep trying to write
things about curiosity and hope because I do think there's a connection. Maybe I've thought
about that more than curiosity and risk, although hope and risk are connected there. Uh, but, uh, but yeah,
we, we wanted, we wanted to think about the destructiveness of curiosity and the breaking of edges,
not just the building. And also even further than that, how the destruction itself is creative. I think you,
you show that in that chapter where again, to get away from this binary, either, or,
and to, into this complexity, right. Where, yes, we need these words and terms to discuss things,
but these are just our tools. And so we need to talk about destruction as being creative and creative
as being destructive. Like you sort of open that up in a way that you can't quite articulate, but
that's why that chapter also gets a little poetic and you, you're able to express it.
Yeah. It's definitely the most experimental, um, of the chapters as far as how we structured it and
wrote, I don't know. It's got weird interludes about dictionaries and you know, it's super cool.
It's yeah, it really works. I mean, it did for me at least. And I think
I'm so glad we had one reviewer say, scratch that. That doesn't make any sense.
Oh no, it just needs time. It's one of those things people. Yeah. More and more people will
understand. I think once you think about these issues a little bit and you come back to that,
then it makes a lot more sense. Good. Good. Yeah. Before we, we go,
because I know you have to go soon. Um, I do want to come back to the beginning in a TS Eliot kind
of way of the book. And, um, and this, this thing that you actually say of TS Eliot, I don't know
if you wrote it or Danny wrote it, but, uh, it's that I'm just borrowing poet TS Eliot's words of love
to frame our pursuit of curiosity. We lift and drop each question on your plate. We take the time for a
hundred indecisions and for a hundred visions and revisions. We take the time to wonder,
do I dare? And as we do, we find one simple answer. Curiosity does dare. It dares disturb the
universe. I love that. And I think it also kind of cracks something open. Um, but why did you say
words of love from TS Eliot? Hard question. I know, but it struck me as, uh, quite a phrase.
Yeah. I think we wanted to acknowledge that the, um, poem itself is about a love relationship. Um,
and that we're in a sense, we're taking out of context, but now that I'm speaking with you on
this podcast, maybe, maybe it's not, maybe love, love is not love and curiosity are not too different
in context. Maybe if we open to this ecological view, it's a little different. Yeah, maybe. Yeah.
So that's what, I guess we were trying to flag that we were, we were virally, uh, from a different
space, from a different, uh, nest, um, this, this piece of daring to disturb the universe. But,
but again, from a different vantage point, perhaps it's actually the same, the same space.
It did make me think about this cracking open that we on a, if we come back to the individual
level and think about love or experiences, a lot of us do know what that feeling is like. Right. Um,
and I think maybe that's also an entryway into understanding some of these themes of curiosity,
um, that sort of cracking open to where you, then you have to kind of look at different paths and
different ways forward. And it's a disturbance that can be creative, even though it's of course also
destructive time. That is so helpful. I mean, yeah, now I'm going to go reprocess all my breakups and
my family through the lens of cracks. Uh, and I think that, I honestly think that's a great way forward.
Yeah. It, it, it helped me. So I thank you. Um, and last thing, the artwork is super cool
in the book and I want everyone to go look at it. Could you just tell me about the artist just for a second?
We have a piece, a full page piece in front of every chapter. And those pieces are by Puna Mistry,
who's a UK and she special, she does primarily children's books, honestly. And her work is really
centered on patterns and nature. And because of the role of patterns and nature in the book,
we thought this person would be perfect. And thank God she said, yes, we ended up sending her something
like a 300 page dossier where we just collected Google images of all the things we were thinking
about throughout the book. And we said, you know, this page, this, this page, this, this page, this. So
she could just kind of flip through it and see the images that were in our mind when we were writing.
And she used that as inspiration to, to develop the, the pieces for the, for the chapters,
which we absolutely adore. And just since you said they're mostly for children and then your,
your dedication is to all the children who question whether it needs to be this way.
This is really great too. And I just, I wonder if like where that came from or if that was just,
I don't know, maybe where did that dedication come from? Last question.
Yeah. We, we, I don't know. We felt that we were these children who asked if it had to be this way.
There were a lot of, there were a lot of mundane, but also painful ways in which
we were expected to live and to think. And we found that our curiosity couldn't be contained by that.
And in a, in a real way, I think our parents were also rebels in the, in a sense. And I think they
modeled for us that capacity, even though they didn't want us to be the rebels in the way that
they were, but I think we are. And, and we just thought, you know what, there's, it's, it's important
as all of us adults are talking about whatever we're talking about to remember children and to
remember the ways in which their curiosity is kind of lifted up as the model. You know, they're the
ones who are the most curious and that's where curious is the most alive. And yet the, the position
of, of a child is one that's not very empowered. They often don't get to pursue the things they're
very interested in. And they often don't get taken seriously in their questions or in their
perspectives or in their interests. And I just think, you know, paying attention to that difference
and to that location of childhood and, and their ability to see through stuff that we've become
really acculturated to habitual about is so important. So we wanted to highlight that in the
dedication.
Well, I'm glad you did. It really resonates also with all these trajectories that we're
born into and that we have, that we follow until we recognize maybe we can make our own. And I think
that speaks a lot to this cracking because that definitely happens when you're a child too.
Right. And also the creation and destruction of it. So it's a beautiful way to begin the book
and thank you for writing the book and thank you for the work you do. And I wish you all the best
with it.
Yeah. Thank you for reading it. Thanks for chatting with me. This has been absolutely delightful.
It has been. So thank you so much, Ferry. Have a great day there.
Yeah, you too.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
