Hey everyone, I'm posting the second conversation that Michael Levin and I had.
Sorry it took a little bit of time to do so. I'm sure you're all busy too with work and
end of the year. And I just wanted to wait until I could really listen back to it
while I was working on a relative paper. And I did just listen back to it. We had this
conversation quite a few months ago. So it's wonderful to listen to it again and rediscover
some really important points that I hadn't remembered from it. We really get into the
idea of the binary and the continuum and talk about waymaking and cognition as navigation
and try to kind of get into a little of that nuance. So I'll just go ahead and post it and
leave it as it is for the most part. And the next one will come in the next year. So thanks
for listening and I look forward to your comments and I hope you have a wonderful end of the year
in a wonderful 2024. I remember that we were talking, just had mentioned the Xenobots.
Should we just start there or? Sure. Yeah. What I remember that I wanted to ask you about
was when you, I think what I'm interested in is do the Xenobots create their own shape or
do you choose the shape? Do you roll them up or do they roll themselves? So there's two types
of Xenobots and what, what you can do is you take that, you take off the, the ectodermal cells
off the embryo and then you can dissociate them. Yeah. So, so you, you separate them.
They're kind of like a, just, you know, floating there and then, and then you put them a little,
in the little pit and they kind of coalesce together. So there's two versions of that.
Uh, by default, if you do nothing other than that, they will arrange into a Xenobot on their
cell. You, you do not have to roll them up. So they roll themselves. They, they do it themselves.
But now what they will do is they will make a spherical, a spherical bot. If you want to
manipulate that, there are two basic paths that you can go. One, which we've already published.
And the other one is what we're working on. The thing that we've published is that you can sculpt
them. So this is what I would call a bottom up intervention because you're trying to micromanage it.
So what you do is, and this is my, my, uh, staff scientist in my center. I did this Doug Blackiston.
And so he's a micro kind of a microsurgeon. What he'll do is he'll go in and like, uh, basically
sculpt out a blade, certain parts of it. And, and at that time you can also put in other kinds of
cells if you want. So the very first paper actually had, he sculpted it to have little,
little stubby little legs, like a little Ottoman kind of thing. And then, and then he put, um, some,
some muscle cells in there and the muscle cells could make the legs go. And this thing
actually walked that's not designed about that, that I spend most of my time talking about,
but, but that was actually the first paper. So, so you can sculpt it and he's, he sculpted it that
way. He also, in the, in the last paper, what he did was he, um, he made it like a little Pac-Man
with a little triangle taken out of it. And what found is that that shape is really good at gathering
up a bunch of loose cells and packing them into the next generation of, of Xenobot. And that was,
that shape was actually designed by an AI that was designed by a, by, uh, an artificial intelligence
algorithm running in Josh Bongard's group. So, so you can do stuff like that. Now,
what we want to do in the future is we want to get beyond that. And we want to be able to communicate,
uh, morphological goals to, uh, to those cells. And we want to say, I need you to be flat, like a
pancake, or, or I want you to be, uh, you know, like a football or, or, or, or have this more complex
shape, like whatever it's going to be. So ultimately down the, down the road, that's what we want,
but, but we haven't, uh, we haven't done that yet. We haven't published that yet. So we're,
we're working on that. I think shape is so important,
right. And the morphology and I'm trying to kind of connect it to all these other bigger ideas
that I'm working on in terms of cognition. Um, and you already sort of do it in your work,
but I'm trying to find the link. So I guess what I'm, what I was asking is like, is I'm wondering,
like, is the, I guess first I would ask you like, where's the chemistry and where's the mind and the way
that the Xenobot forms itself and your kind of opinion. Um, but behind that is what I'm trying
to get at is, are, are they kind of working on the patterns of their own shape? Is there,
is there a continuity between the shape that they are and the shapes that they create in a sense?
Yeah. Um, well, I want to say, I want to say one thing first, which is that the, uh, question of,
of that, um, continuum of, of shape and mind and everything else, uh, Xenobots are not yet
a great, uh, example for that because there's so little we know. So I'm, I'm of the firm. I mean,
many, many people have, have, uh, have opinions as to what, you know, what the, what the cognitive
level of Xenobots has to be, but just because they have sort of philosophical commitments to
specific viewpoints. I don't believe that is the way to do this. I think it's, I think it's an
empirical question. I think we have to do experiments. And so I have not yet made any
claims about, uh, the, the cognition of these Xenobots because we haven't actually published
the data showing what it is that they can do. I mean, we have a few things, but, but, but we have
not, so, so I haven't made any claims about Xenobots. No, of course not. I'm jumping ahead.
I'm jumping ahead because the way I define cognition is already movement and it's completely different than,
you know, I'm already starting at a different place. So that's why I'm asking, but you're right.
That's good to point that out. Well, only because, right. So, so, uh, because, because ultimately we
want to be able to be very specific and we want to be able to say Xenobots have this level of
competency in navigating space. They can, uh, you know, what can they do? They may, maybe they, so,
so we're testing, you know, do they have preferences about where they go? Do they have memories about
where they've been? Do they have, uh, ability to overcome obstacles? Do they have the ability to work
together? You can, you test all these, all these things, right? So, so we don't know. And so,
right. So that's why I'm not making a claim. But if we, if we sort of step back to this more
general notion of way, making or, or navigation or whatever it's going to be, then absolutely.
They're not only doing that in three-dimensional space, they're doing that in Morpha space. I mean,
they do. And in fact, if you cut them and injure them, they will in fact, uh, try to regenerate back
to their original shape. So, so there is some of that there. It's just, it's just, there are other
systems where we know more and thus it's easier to kind of make that connection in a rigorous way.
Um, you know, otherwise you're fighting two battles at once, right? You're fighting this,
this general tendency of people to try to separate, uh, uh, for morphogenesis. And also you're fighting
the fact that we actually don't know enough about what they specifically can do. So that's the problem.
So I try to, I try to kind of separate those. Yeah, this gets really messy, but I think maybe it's okay
to just like, let it be messy for a second because, um, if we start, if we could, we can,
of course, erase this. Usually when we hear cognition as humans, we think of mind and thought
and memory and all this kind of awareness of cognition, really. Right. Um, but if we could
kind of erase that in a way that I think you're definitely, both of us are kind of trying to get
at this different understanding of cognition that I think is actually very similar, which is why I'm so
excited about your work. Um, and actually I think your work is kind of maybe an example of what I've
been trying to formulate, I guess. Um, and I think there's other examples in different areas of science.
Like we're all sort of trying to talk about this, but if we could just like start over for a second
and just say, okay, any making way, or I also use the term navigation, but just as we know that always
means you have a goal and sometimes maybe making way doesn't have a specific goal, which is something
else I want to talk to you about. But if we just think of it as any agent from any position making
its way through its encounter, or it's, I think what you might call like a surface, computational
surface, I started to realize that your light cone idea is a little bit like what I mean by an
encounter, right? So if we just determine a position, an agent, what I say, an agent base,
and I've heard you call a gentle, I think we also use similar terminology. If we just say, okay,
this is from where we're going to measure it. And however that position makes its way is cognition.
If we just pretend like that's what cognition is, has nothing to do with that creature,
that agent knowing that it's cognitive or anything else, then when you create this kind of, or you
don't even create, when you've changed the frog, let's just go with the frog, when you've taken the
skin and you've separated the cells and they start to reform, that is a kind of making way. So for me,
that is already a cognitive act. And it's also physics, like, and it's not either or of those
things. It's both of those things, but we would call them differently depending on from where we're
going to measure it. So if you take it like that, would you just say, okay, then it is a cognitive
thing that the way it comes together and forms this, uh, new, new shape and then begins forming
other shapes that look like it and so on. So, so yeah, yes. But to me, um, because,
because I treat, uh, cognition as a continuum, not a binary variable, I think the real question is
going to be where on that continuum is it? So what is it capable of? So I completely agree that this,
this like, um, metacognition that I know I'm aware and I know my goals and I can change my goals and
stuff. Yeah. That's all, that's all really advanced, uh, kind of stuff that's way on the right of this
continuum. Things are on the continuum long before they get to that point. So, so I have no trouble
saying that very simple systems, uh, you know, even bacteria have some, some primitive metacognitive
loops about their metabolism and things like that. So, uh, uh, so I have no, I have no problem, uh,
saying that we are somewhere on the much lower sort of part of that spectrum, but we're somewhere on
there. I'm sure, I'm sure we are. Um, I just don't know exactly where there are other systems where I
can tell you where I think they are because the experiments have been done. I, you know, that's,
that's why I, I, the only reason I harp on this point and it's not, I'm not trying to get too
specific. I'm, I'm fine with letting things be messy and percolate. No, it's important to find clarity.
I'm completely fine with that, but, but, um, I'm trying to fight this, this, this, uh, pervasive,
uh, tendency for people to make claims about these things, uh, just based on their philosophical
pre-commitments, not, not on actual data. And so, so I keep, for that reason, I keep saying,
as much as I like all kinds of things to be cognitive, I don't know where they are on a
continuum until we, we test them. So, so we don't know, you know, how much can they do
associative conditioning? I don't know. Can they write, can they, you know, we, when we have
evidence that they can form memories now, but we don't know how complex these memories can be.
Can they chain them together? I have no idea. These are, these are all things that, that we
need to figure out. And, and the other interesting thing is, um, I didn't realize how P so, so it's
funny, you, you know, you just, you said a minute ago that, um, uh, navigation presupposes a goal.
And I never really thought about that. I realize now that people do think of it that way. I didn't,
I didn't either. I don't think it does, but it does in the literature of nourishment.
Yeah. It's, it's so strange. Even, even we even, we even had a paper where we talk about one of
these synthetic things, traversing a landscape and traversing to me, just, it could be, it could be a
random walk. It just means that it's moving over the landscape. Right. But a reviewer got back and
said, oh, traversing must mean it's this like, um, uh, you know, this, uh, very directed, uh, kind of,
I, I, I did not realize that people, people have those connotations. I mean, I think,
I think for, for navigation, you could have a very generic goal of exploring a landscape unit.
It doesn't mean you have the goal of knowing where you're going. I don't think that implies at all.
So I don't know here, this is one of those things where I think we have to decide,
are we going to use words in the way that everybody uses them because we want to avoid those battles
and, and have, uh, you know, have more adoption or do we bite the bullet and say, no, actually,
here's what those words should mean otherwise. Right. And just sort of lead the, the, hopefully
a change in the terminology. I, you know, so sometimes both are useful. Right. So I don't
know. So, so certain things that I, I try to insist on and then other things like whatever.
Yeah. There's a big debate. You probably know, uh, in neuroscience now about language and the terms
we use and, you know, Buzaki who, um, you know, advised me a little bit on some of my own stuff,
talks a lot about how we just sort of inherited all these terms like memory, for example, from James.
And we sort of assume what it is before we even look for it in a sense. Um, so I think that's what
I mean by the messiness is like, we're all assuming terms mean a certain thing based on our past
trajectory. Um, and we don't realize, I mean, you write about this a bit in that paper you sent me
last time. Um, you know, some of the confusion is just that we don't have a kind of
understanding of what we're talking about where there's a lot of misinterpretation going on that
we don't even really know about. Um, I think that's what I'm actually trying to do in formulating
a philosophy or a theory of cognition, which is really all I'm doing is gathering all this other
data and research from science and trying to show that, oh, actually we're all talking about the same
thing. And that's all I'm really trying to do. It's not even that there's some new thing. It's just
to try to put it into a framework that actually works across species and scales and disciplines,
because nobody's done that because it's so messy, but, um, to maybe we can talk about a more kind
of concrete example before I start asking other questions. Cause yeah, the xenobots, I know you,
it's still very new and also a lot of people in a similar way are coming with different references
of what they think you're doing. So it can get very, uh, difficult. So what's an example that you
think where we could actually talk more about physics mind kind of software? Yeah. I mean, for,
for example, we could talk about, uh, planaria fragments, figuring out how many heads they're
supposed to form, or we could talk about, uh, catpoles rearranging their face from abnormal
positions to become frogs. Some of these examples where, where we can talk about the, um, the newt
kidney tubule, where, uh, it solves a really amazing, uh, kind of, uh, defect in its own parts
to still get to where it's going, which is to make a proper newt with a proper kidney tubule and so on.
So yeah, any of those. Let's talk about planarian because they seem to be the answer to everything
in a way. Um, so if we think about them, which regenerate in a completely different way, or would
you say regenerate or reproduce in a very different way? They regenerate. Yeah. Okay. Um, so I've heard
you say something like, uh, that I think in talking about those, that bioelectricity is this kind of, uh,
strange boundary or layer between the mind and the physics when it comes to changing. And this is
something I'm still not so clear about is what the electricity is in the bioelectricity and how
we're kind of distinguishing between matter and matter in that pattern. So I don't know, maybe,
and that's kind of a very broad, but in terms of, of those, where would you start to think about
software and hardware or mind and chemistry? Yeah. I, I, I start to think of it actually,
let's let, let me, let me try a slightly different, um, way that, um, I haven't,
I don't think I've talked about it this way in, in, in this, uh, the talks yet. Um,
think about, uh, think about a computer, uh, right. Uh, when you first turn on the juice
for some number of, I don't know, probably nanoseconds, what you're dealing with is a piece
of physics, a dynamical system well described by Maxwell's equations and all of that. Right.
But at some point, once it starts grabbing, uh, once it starts executing the thing that we recognize
as, um, formal computation in the von Neumann architecture. So it starts, so, so it starts
grabbing instructions off of this memory location and doing something with them. It's still a physical
machine. It's still obeying the laws of physics. It's still doing all that stuff, but we can look
at it and say, wow, it's executing logic. The, the, the sort of basic principle of rational thought
it's doing, you know, let's say it's calculating the end, you know, the end function or the or
function or something like that, or it's calc, you know, some, some kind of calculation. So, so you,
so here you have a system, you can look at it a certain way, uh, and say, you can be a reductionist
and say, none of the, none of that exists. All I see is electrons moving according to Maxwell's
equation. That that that's all that exists. Or you could say, I mean, yeah, that's true,
but that's the most boring part of this. The more interesting part of this and the more useful part
of this is that it's computing functions. It's re it's, it's calculating, maybe it's reasoning,
you know, it's an inference, it's calculating inferences and so on. So, so I think that that is
like a minimal simplistic before we get into life and all that, that's a kind of a simplistic system
where you start to see that it's both it's, yes, it is a physical system. Yes. It, uh, yes, it, uh,
it, it obeys, uh, the laws, but also it's doing this amazing thing. That's, that's, that's getting
close to cognition. Like it's actually generated, you know, it's following truth tables and, and, and,
and, you know, and those, and those kinds of things. So, so I think the same thing happens in,
in living organisms. Uh, you can look at the bioelectricity as just the flow of ions in and out of
membranes and what that does to the arresting potential and all of that. But fundamentally,
much like with the computer, there's an, there's a, the it's, it's computation because there's an
interpreter. There's somebody that looks at that, at, at that whole physics and acts on it based on
what they see. And, and in the case of the computer, it's us in the case of the biology, it's cells and
tissues, watching each other and making decisions based on what they do. And, and the first part of
what you said, you know, the, the, my point about, um, changing scales, it's like, sometimes, um,
I'll start a talk by saying, uh, did you, did you know that I can control 30 per, I can, I can depolarize
30% of my body cells just by thinking about it, by force of thought alone. And people say, well,
that's crazy. And then a couple of people say, well, maybe it's some sort of weird, um, uh, you know,
yoga thing or something, right. Am I some kind of mind, body medicine? Like, no, no, this is 24,
seven. This is what happens in your body. When you, when you decide to get up out of bed in the
morning and go to work, that's because you have a high level cognitive, uh, in fact, a metacognitive
system that has social goals and, and whatever, and decides that you're going to work. And in order
for that to happen, the muscles in your body have to become depolarized in a certain pattern. So you
can walk out, walk out. And that means that they, our architecture is such that the thing we call
cognition, which are these high level, the kind of mental processes and goals has to filter down to the
molecular biology of your cells. It has to, otherwise there would be no voluntary motion.
So, so that's, and, and so you say, well, how in the heck does that happen? Well,
bioelectricity, so neural and non-neural that that's, that's why biology, that's why I think
bioelectricity is so exciting because it shows us that it is the layer that enables cognitive processes
to, uh, to control chemistry in your, in your cells. I mean, that's 20, that's what happens all the
time. It's not some rare, you know, specialized thing. And at the same time, it is chemistry
itself in a way, right? I mean, yeah, you can, doesn't it depend on where we're going to measure
or look at it, what we're going to call it. Absolutely. Absolutely. You can, you can choose
as an observer and, and observers are scientists. Observers are parasites. Observers are conspecifics.
Observers are all kinds of things that you, you are your observer yourself too. As an observer,
you can choose the level that you work on. But, uh, we have to be clear that not all, all choices
are equal. So, so if you are just imagine, um, I kind of imagine it this way, uh, you are, you are
uh, running a, uh, a software company and you're interviewing candidates and somebody shows up and,
and, uh, to the interview and they say, Hey, um, I'm a, uh, I'm a strong reductionist. Uh, I believe in
electrons and I believe in Maxwell's equations. And that is it. There is nothing else going on in the
computer. It's not that they're wrong. Exactly. Would you hire that person? They're not going to
code a damn thing because, because, because there's no dynamic way of change there. Well,
they don't believe that the algorithm makes the electrons dance. If you do not believe that this
algorithm, what's, what's an algorithm. It's a, it's a, it's not a physical thing, but if you don't
believe that the algorithm functionally makes the computer do things, you will never write any code
ever. And, and so, and so, and that's it. And it's not that you're wrong and you can have a great
life in physics, but you're not going to invent software. So, so that's what, you know, that's
my point. And I think evolution is very, um, very, uh, uh, quote unquote, aware of this in the sense
that these observers do not, for, for example, um, when cells watch each other's voltage and, and they
do, they make decisions based on each other's voltage. They are not watching whether that voltage
got there by sodium, by potassium, by chloride. They're ignoring those details. They're watching the
voltage. Why is it good to watch? It's interesting you say watch by the way, because that makes it sound like
they're looking at it or something, but it could be, they're just sensing it too. Right. Aren't
they? I mean, it's not like with eyes necessarily. No, no, there's no eyes. I'm saying, yeah, yeah.
I don't mean eyes. I mean, I mean, they're, they're sensing it. They have, they're taking
measurement. Yeah. It's a sensory measurement. It's a sensory measurement. That's, that's what I
mean. Uh, they're paying attention to the voltage and in doing so they specifically ignore the
molecular details of what was it? Sodium or potassium that got into that voltage. They ignore that the
same way that when you're a good coder at a particular level, you have to ignore the levels
underneath. If you always jump down to the lower level, you're very limited in what, in what you
can do. That's what language is giving you in a way. I mean, that's why we create those kind of
scaffolding systems in a way. But so does that, I think just to go back to this idea of navigation,
right? And, and the way it's used in the literature is that there's a goal. And so that it's as, as if the
agent itself knows that it has a goal or the agent has the goal. But if we think of it in the way you just
described that kind of stuff, it could also be that the person measuring it has, um, seen where,
what its goal is or something. Um, I mean, you could also kind of, yeah.
Um, yeah, no, a hundred percent. That's in fact, that's, that's the definition, uh, in my, in my team
paper, I say that goals are in the eye of the beholder. Now, now you are also a beholder of your
own goals. So it's not just, uh, you know, I'm not saying that, that we are nothing except what people
make of us. I'm not saying that, but, but any of this, when, when, when we say a system has a
particular goal, that means that I, as an observer have picked a problem space. I picked a bunch of
states that I think this thing, uh, this thing has as goals. And I've done some experiments to see
that if I perturb it, it still tries to get those goals met. It's mostly it is. And, and somebody else
could, could have a completely different, you know, um, a set of choices about that. And, uh, in, in
principle, multiple viewpoints could be right, but they're not all equivalent because some give you
much better, uh, outcomes than others. So that's kind of, yeah, very much so. I think it's very
observer, you know, it's, it's observer dependent. That's what ends up causing the trouble in a way
sometimes is that it, we, we're still stuck in that either or dichotomous model where we think
it's either software or hardware, um, it's either mind or physics always across all, uh, positions of
assessment when it's because it's very hard to hold in your mind. The fact that depending on from what
agent you're measuring or assessing, what is physics at one level can be look like mind at the next or be
mind. I mean, because you know, that's a really, I think that's a very hard thing to articulate or to
step back enough to, to see.
Well, another way to put it is, is this, uh, I think the reason physicists see, you know, chemicals
and particles and so on and not mind, they see matter and not mind is because they're using low
agency tools. So, so you need some sort of, uh, um, an impedance match between the tools you're using
and what you hope to see. So if you're using rulers and volt meters and, uh, all of these kinds of things,
like as physicists do, those are all low agency systems. All you're ever going to see is low agency
matter that you're, you're only ever going to see that, uh, if you want to see mind.
Yeah. If you want to see mind, you, you have to have a mind to be able to recognize mind.
Um,
but even then it sounds like we're still talking about mind as if it's something else. So in a way it's
like, you have to have a mind that has similar regularities to whatever it is you're measuring.
I mean, yeah, well, that's a good question, right? I mean, this is, this has been dealt
with in science fiction for a hundred years or more. It's like, are we going to be able to
recognize minds that are very different from ours? And I think it'll be hard for sure, but I don't
think it's impossible. And I think you get there by stretching your own mind. And I think this is what
the field of diverse intelligence is all about. It's about stretching your own mind and new directions,
uh, to be able to recognize a wider set of beings.
Let me push you on that a little, because if we think of mind as the way we make way,
and basically this gets to memory and everything, because it's not just that you're making way,
it's that you're, um, aligning with certain regularities, which then you kind of habitually
use in the same way you were talking about coding, right? You can't keep recoding everything every
time. I mean, so you're sort of building this framework by which you can move better and farther and
explore more. Um, so if we really think of mind as that, you know, then more or less what we're
saying is we just don't recognize certain forms of making way or movement. For example, if something's
using some kind of electrical physics to, to move that we haven't been able to observe and clarify
yet from our sensory position, we, we wouldn't see it. I mean, it happens already all the time,
right. With different kinds of animals and things. Yeah. Yeah. I, I a hundred percent.
And I think if I remember correctly and I'm not sure that I do, but if I remember correctly,
I think that at some point was maybe it was the ancient Egyptians or somebody thought that, um,
the brain was a way to cool the blood because, because, you know, and I mean, yeah, from a certain
perspective, that's great. It's a radiator fin and it cools the blood, but you've, but you've missed,
you've missed, uh, the importance. And, and I think this happens to us all the time. I think we look at stuff
and in science, this happens all the time. You look at stuff and you have a level of, of, of
explanation and you say, you know, great. Now I understand what it does. And, and what, what really
harms the, the ability to discover these things is this kind of this, this idea that you're always
supposed to skew downwards, that, that the lowest level explanation is always preferred. That if you
can do it in terms of chemistry, instead of cognition, you're better off that, that, that I think is
absolutely pernicious. And it keeps us from discovering these other very useful perspectives.
Absolutely. Because that itself is one, it's a, it's like a linear instead of a spectrum. I think
a spectrum can be understood as linear, but that's not, I don't think that's what you're saying. This
continuity. I don't, when you talk about scale-free cognition or something, you're not necessarily
talking about it's linear with the beginning and end or something, but when we talk about reduction,
that's what we're kind of talking about, that everything can be reduced in the same way,
rather than there's all these kinds of fractal, uh, positions from which everything can be
decomposed or the same thing can be decomposed in many different ways, right? Depending on
where you're going to measure it from. Yeah. Well, and also it's a very, um, it's a very specific,
actually a very strong claim, and it's not often made, um, explicit, but I think people, most, most
scientists, uh, work as though they believe this, which is that they say you really should reduce it
to let's say chemistry. Um, but, but they don't really mean the full reductionist program because
if somebody then said, oh, you mean like quantum foam, like we'll reduce it. I see not quantum
foam. That's too far chemistry. It's all chemistry. Like, like, well, then you're not a real reductionist,
are you? That just means you've picked chemistry as your, you know, as your preferred level, but the
stuff underneath, and if you want to, you know, I don't know what, what if it's in favor now or what,
but, but, you know, if you want a string theory explanation of, of, of genes, they're going to say,
ah, you're crazy. That's too far down. Chemistry, like chemistry is the way to go. And I'm just
saying that's not good reductionism. That just means you've picked chemistry. And, uh, that's a
very strong, yeah. And that's a very strong claim that chemistry is, is the level for all of these
things. And I don't think it's remotely true, but, but I think we need to understand that that's,
that that's a commitment that, that a lot of people have. Yeah. And I think that's important too,
that because you can, it can quickly sound as if you're, we, or I am trying to reject
these binaries, but actually these binaries chemistry are mine, for example, or we could
take other things, you know, uh, they're very important that they actually help us
to understand the system and they are literal and they, they are meaningful and all of this. It's just
that for me, at least it's like, how do we understand that those are just, uh, those are not,
not just, those are ways we've, we've developed to understand something that can be understood from
other positions through other categories without one or the other being false or true specifically.
Yeah. I, I think I'm, I'm, I'm even more radical on this point. I think I, I don't like the binaries
because, because they lead to pseudo problems, right? Once you've, if, if you've assumed, if you like
binaries, then, then what do you make of embryonic development? Because, because you start as just
physics as a little, on, on, you know, quiescent oocyte and unfertilized egg. And then before you
know it, you're, uh, you know, nine months later, you've got these cognitive capacities and you're
recognizing shit. So, so if it's binary, then you owe a story about where it clicks over.
Mm-hmm I don't think it is binary, but I think it can help us understand, like, for example,
how would we, now we, for me, I would say from the beginning, that's making way from the beginning,
that's cognitive. This is very hard because I also mean from the beginning, like, I mean,
cognition is making way. I also mean making way is cognition. So I'm not reducing walking or swimming
or crawling to cognition, and I'm not reducing cognition to walking and swimming and crawling.
I'm saying those are two different ways, which we can measure a process that is not binary.
So in that way, the binary becomes important just because of contrast and the role that contrast
plays and how so far we've proceeded to develop a kind of, a kind of knowledge. Because I don't know,
maybe you disagree, but in a way I feel like now we can see that process of that nine months
as cognitive and as making way or navigating. Um, and those things aren't opposite, but somehow we use this
binary categorization to develop this, the science that allowed us to take that step back now and go,
Oh, actually this process is not binary.
Yeah. Um, so, so I agree with you. I think it's cognitive from the very beginning, but, but that
has an interesting implication because very beginning is a little blob of, of, of that's, that's well described
by chemistry. So, so once you say that, that that's cognitive, then, then, then people say,
well, well then what isn't, I mean, basically then chemical reactions. And I say, yeah, look at the minimal
matter research in, uh, in, in diverse intelligence, you know, active, active matter droplets. I mean,
yeah. And so, and so then, then, uh, that basically pushes you to this idea that, uh, there may not be
anything that isn't described by some metaphor from, from behavioral science somewhere. And that may well
be true. And people like, um, uh, Chris Fields and Carl, Carl Fiston, who are working out a, a kind of,
uh, uh, uh, that, you know, Carl calls it a physics of sentience and the sentience of physics. It's
basically re re redoing the, the, the fundamental, uh, way we look at physics from a active inference
and from an active inverse perspective. Uh, yeah, that's great. And, and I think, I think in many ways
that, uh, undoes the binary distinction that people like to make, but I also think, you know, I think these,
like, if we step back and we say, okay, what, what are, what are these words for? You know, what are
these categories even for, right? Why are people using it? I, I think what it all boils down to is
it's a, it's a protocol claim. It's a claim about if, if you tell me this is a, this is a system that
is, uh, uh, here on this continuum, you know, it's a mechanical clock or it's a, it's a learning
agent or it's a thermostat or whatever. All you're really saying is I, I don't need to, if you think it's
mine or matter or whatever, what I really, what you're really telling me is here is a
collection of tools that you should use to interact with the system. And those tools might
be rewiring. They might be rewards and punishments. They might be, um, a complex, uh, a conversation
that we're going to have. They might be, uh, just a resetting a set point. That's what I hear when,
when I hear somebody claim that this system is it or isn't that what I want to know is great.
What, what are the, what are the set of tools you're telling me that rewards and punishments won't
work that I have to use rewiring? Well, let's find out you could be right. You could be wrong.
That's why I think it's, it's an empirical matter because, because of these, these are all protocol
claims in the end. Um, what techniques are you going to use? Yeah. And that's why grounding
it in engineering, like looking at it from that framework can be the most helpful instead of
from a more theoretical sort of standpoint. And also, I mean, it can get, um, if we would just say,
oh, everything is cognitive and everything is way making. Um, that's really not true. You can't
actually say that because you're always speaking from a position of measurement or assessment.
So, um, I, I mean, that would be like a whole, a whole discussion within itself about how we have
to sort of apply the same idea to our own, uh, our own, our own position, you know, it becomes very
meta in that way. And, and, and really you're just trying to understand something. And when I start to
think about why are we doing this, right? Like, or when people start saying, oh, does that mean that life
is whatever moves? If, if it doesn't make its way, then it's not life. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe, but
that life itself is an assessment from our position. Um, so yeah, but I think it's great
that you said like, what's the point? Because we could just maybe right now even go to a really
practical level, like in our practical position as agents in this, uh, existence that we're in,
there are particular challenges and difficulties and urgencies. What, whether you want to look at it
on a planetary scale or you want to look at it in terms of your own psychology and how to get through
the day, you know, for people who have certain, um, uh, uh, challenges like physical challenges
or mental challenges, whatever you want to, however you want to assess that and, and, and name it.
We want to do something about that, right? We might not need to understand why so much as just
alleviation or better make way making or better navigation, right? Which I think you're, by, by focusing
on engineering, are you sort of framing it towards that too a bit when it comes to your own work?
Yeah. And I mean, I, I see engineering really broadly. So, so one way to, I, I don't just mean
engineering because we're going to treat, uh, humans and have human relationships the way we engineer
Roombas and things like that. Um, engineering to me is much broader. So, so I think of it as, uh, more of,
um, the way, the way that, uh, you can think about hacking. So hacking. So if you're a hacker,
you might be on one level, uh, where, where you're down rewiring some wires, you might be writing code
and things like that, or you might be doing the social engineering part where you're, you're relating
to other people and getting them to tell you their passwords or whatever, you know, whatever it's going
to be. It's all, you know, you're, you're comfortable, uh, at different places along that continuum.
And I think that yes, on the left side of that continuum, it's all engineering because you are
mostly exerting your own agency to get the thing, to do whatever you want it to do. But on the higher
level of that continuum, when you're interacting with animals, with other humans, with other, um,
high level minds or whatever they may be, however, they may be embodied. Um, it's much more of a,
of a dance where their agency is giving you something. It's not just a one way kind of a thing,
but that's, again, that's a, that's, that's continuous, you know, people like to have pet
lizards and, uh, and things like this. It's not just, you know, uh, you know, my vacuum cleaner
versus, versus my spouse. I mean, there's all kinds of stuff in between, right. Where, you know, uh, you
can have different degrees of relationships depending on the, the match or the, or the mismatch between
your cognitive light cones. Um, and so, yeah, so engineering is all the way from like very, very
mechanical kinds of stuff, all the way up to complex human relationships where there's multiple, uh,
low side of agency involved. And it's not just about control. It's about getting something back
because, because the system, the other side is also a gentle like you.
Yeah. That's a great point to go back to the planarian from that position. So this is something
I don't understand totally when, when you change, uh, or, or some other, whatever, anything that you've
talked about in your work, when you're going to, for example, change the position of the
eye or you're going to grow something in a different way or, um, and you're basically
that's bioelectric, right? You're, you're changing the pattern. You're not changing the genes. It's
not happening in transcriptional space. It's happening in this. So what's happening there?
Is it, is it that you're changing the communication between the ions? I mean, are you changing the
sodium? What's actually happening there on that level that's changing that?
Yeah. So, so, so physically the way you do it is by, uh,
there, there are four or five different techniques by which you can change the pattern
of voltage around, uh, across a set of tissues. You can do, you can use, um, ion channel modulation.
You can use optogenetics. You can change sodium, potassium chloride. None of the details matter
for the reason that I said before, as long as you get the voltage, right. I mean, the details matter
when you're trying to get the voltage, right, but, but, but there are many ways of doing it and it
doesn't matter how you got there. The, what makes the change is the change in voltage. Voltage is super
cool because it's a, it's a, um, it's a high level entity. Voltage doesn't know if it got there by
sodium or by voltage. It's like this coarse grain feature. And that is what the cells are tracking.
They're not tracking the individual ions are tracking the voltage. So, uh, so you make that
change. The reason you make that change is because that electrical pattern is literally a memory in the
mind of the collective intelligence of cells. That, that group of cells is storing a memory
of what does a correct, for example, what does a correct planarian look like? And that information,
they have to have that information because when they're damaged, they have to rebuild the collect,
a correct planarian. So it's kind of the trajectory or all the nested coding. You're, you're shifting that,
but you're shifting it all at once. We're shifting the set point. So, so, so, so when you have a
thermostat right in your house, um, you may not know how anything works. You don't need to, you
don't need to rewire it. You may have no idea what the details are, but all, but if you know,
you have to know a couple of things, you have to know it's a thermostat. If you miss that part,
then, then no good. So you have to know that that's what it is. And once you've guessed that
that's what it is, you have to know how to reset the set point. And we know that for a thermostat,
there's a particular, uh, register in memory that has a number in it. That number is what the whole system
is going to use as its representation of what is good and versus bad. That's the, it sets the
baseline valence for that system. So if, if it's good, then nothing happens. If it's bad, then it's
got to exert all kinds of energy to try to get to wherever life is good. So, uh,
So it's very specific to that agent base, that position, that, yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. It is. Although it is, although it is, although people have done, um, experiments in memory transfer
and there is some ability to take that medium and stick it into a different agent and have them
interpret it the right way. That that's, that that's a very big open area of research for the,
for the future. Like how, how much of that, um, my, my favorite example of that is caterpillar
butterfly. So if you train caterpillars to look for, uh, the leaves that they eat on a disc of a
particular color, they become a butterfly. The body is completely changed. The brain is completely
refactored cells. So most of the cells are killed. You're right. The whole thing. And then the
butterfly, not only does the butterfly remember the original information, but it's actually going to be
generalized because the caterpillar said leaves are to be found on this particular thing.
Butterfly doesn't need leaves. Butterfly doesn't want leaves. It wants nectar. But what the butterfly
remembers is food. It generalizes the notion of food from leaves and nectar. Right. And so, so amazing.
Uh, but, but it's a completely different body that's interpreting that memory.
So not only does it have the memory, not only can it still interpret that memory, but it can also
generalize from that. So, so I, you know, to some extent it seems very specific to the agent,
but on the other hand, we have these examples of these memories sort of porting across agents,
which I think there's something here that, that will be huge. I think we just don't.
Yeah. I love that example of the caterpillar and butterfly, but I also think it's kind of tricky.
I mean, when I was, I think I was listening to one of your talks, I was thinking if we could zoom,
zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom into that process of whatever is happening when the caterpillar's
changing to the butterfly, of course, there's going to be continuity, isn't there? Like
from my perspective, I'm thinking of it as a trajectory, right? If you're kind of mapping
a trajectory, so you're going to just start with any particular agent base within that whole thing.
It's not that everything becomes mush and then reforms. I mean, you could sort of,
if you're going to, if you could zoom, zoom, zoom, could you, could you kind of follow
one position as a trajectory that's then changing in? And because I guess that's what I was getting
at too with the xenobot, like, does it create its own shape or is the shape created from where it's
coming from? Isn't there, is there some kind of continuity between not necessarily the physical
shape, but you know, the same way you talk about all these other different spaces and I do too,
I think this is a big part of, of this new understanding of cognition is all these different
spaces from which we can, again, measure or assess, like, wouldn't there be some space in which that
is a continuous trajectory between caterpillar and butterfly? Well, I, there may be, but I mean, look,
we don't, for example, if, if it were that simple, we would have computers that, that were robust to
that. We don't. If you, if you take a computer, a normal computer architecture and you swap some memory
cells around. Right. Nothing works. There's, there's physical continuity, but the thing is
completely gonna, gonna not work. Yeah. But that could just be that we haven't, I mean, in the same
way that we can't zoom in to the degree that I'm talking about, then we also wouldn't be able to
represent it in a computer. I mean, well, except that in the computer, we have zoom, we can zoom into
the, to all the way in the computer. There's nothing preventing it. That's why I choose the computer
because unlike biology, where things are hard in the computer, we build it from, from copper atoms.
Like we know exactly. Yeah. But it's, that's only one kind of particular
uh, representation or something that we've actually created. Um, I think I like that you
say it as a companion or a partner, right. To in this kind of journey. So there could be,
I mean, we could think of quantum computers or we could think of some kind of living computer built from
bacteria and fungi or something that might actually, then, then you probably could switch
around a couple of things if it's a living. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. No, I'm not saying
it's impossible to do that. I'm saying it's entirely possible. I'm just saying, uh, we haven't done it.
We have no idea how that would work because we do not have any architectures that have that property.
I mean, the butterfly does, so we know it's possible somehow, somehow it gets done. Um, but,
but also the question of what is their continuity of, because, because, uh, some kind of an engram
that said leaves, uh, is not what the butterfly is, is picking up. Right. So, so that's what I mean
by a different space. It's not the space that we, that we, that we assume. Yeah. Yeah. We don't know
other way of, of looking at it. Um, you know, there's, there's also this issue of, and I think,
I think this is probably what we're getting out when you were talking about, um, uh, you know,
what, what are the Xenobots really doing? Like one of the, when, when we, when we ask, where do
biological shapes come from? The typical answer is, well, selection. You look like a frog because over
the years, everything that didn't look like a frog and tried to live in this pond died out. So now you look
like a frog. Okay. That's fine. Except that, um, there's never been any Xenobots and there's never
been selection to be a good Xenobot. Exactly. And so it isn't that. And so, and which is one of the
reasons we made Xenobots is exactly to probe exactly this issue. Where do these patterns come from?
And I think we have to be really, um, we have to redefine, uh, what we're asking because I, I, I,
this is, this is my kind of favorite stupid example that, that I always give you ever seen, um,
a Galton board. You know what that is? They have this, right? So, so, so you get a toy of this on,
on Amazon. It's like a, it's, it's a board. It's got a bunch of nails banged into it. Uh, you take a
bucket of marbles and you sort of dump it on top and the marbles go blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And if you've got enough marbles, the outcome is always the same. It's a bell curve. It makes this
beautiful, beautiful, you know, binomial distribution. Right. Um, and so you can ask the question,
all right, that's a great curve. Where is that pattern encoded? So you start staring at the nails. I don't
see it there. And you start looking at the wood. Well, I don't see it there. And is it the distribution
of nails? No, not really. Is it how I dump the marble is in? No. Um, where, where does it come
from? And so I, I think, and there are many other examples like this, I think we have to, uh, we have,
I mean, basically this is what, what, um, uh, Plato and Pythagoras were, were on about when they were
talking about this platonic space of form, that there are laws of, of physics, laws of computation,
uh, and so on that are not to be found in the physical world. Like the details of all the
physics could be different at the big bang. All the laws of the physics could be different.
The distribution of prime numbers is still what it is. It's not gonna change. So, so a lot of the,
the answer to the question of where do these shapes come from that you have to look there in addition to,
oh, it's because, you know, in the physical world, somebody, somebody were scribbled on, on this
particular scratch pad that, you know, before it's, it's partially that. And it's often, sometimes it's
like somewhat that, but it's often much of it is not that makes me think of Schrodinger's cat or
these typical experiments of, you know, quantum physics with the light going through the, the
disks that make these kinds of patterns and stuff. Like, again, it could go back to that idea of from
where we are assessing it and this whole kind of scaffolding that we've built towards measuring and
assessing, um, that there is this kind of regularity, which gets at another thing, which is not that you're
just changing the environment, right? When you change, when, for example, if let's talk about
regeneration, just because I know we have to go soon and I wanted to at least bring up that word,
but, um, you're not changing the environment when you regenerate, are you? Is it just that simple that
you're changing the electrical pattern and we could just call that the computational surface, or we could
call that the light cone that you've somehow now changed the pattern of the encounter and therefore
the agent itself will change, or it's not that simple, is it?
No, no, no. And these are all, these words are not interchangeable. So, so like, um, the cognitive,
we, we, we don't know how to change the cognitive light cone. The cognitive light cone is the scale of
the biggest goals that a particular, uh, uh, system can, can pursue. Actually, that's not quite true.
And I think in the cancer treatments, we do, we do expand the cognitive light cone, but, but, um, that's not
what we do for regeneration. So, so in regeneration, uh, we try to, we, we, we, we, we change the
environment in two ways. One is like, like, for example, for limb regeneration, we have this, um,
wearable bioreactor and, and part of that, and it gives us like protective aqueous environment. Part
of that is to convince the cells that it's safe and it's worthwhile to put energy into regenerating.
If you're a mouse or something and you're running around outside and, and you're behaving, you know,
your arm gets bitten off, you're not gonna, you're not gonna be able to regenerate anything because
you're putting weight on it, you're getting infected and stuff like that. So, so the cells,
there's no point in trying to regenerate anything. So, so you're trying to convince the cells that it's
a safe environment. Also, you're providing a payload of drugs that target, uh, the electric
state of the cells that convince them that the journey through more of a space that they should take
is the one that goes towards making a limb and not the one that goes to scarring and, and, and stopping
grows. There are multiple paths that they could take. So you're trying to point.
It's happening at once. The, so you are actually changing the chemo chemical kind of
ion, the ion channels via chemicals to not just. Yes, you, yes, you have, you have to, but, but,
but, but if you get, but the problem is if you get, I mean, and, and people do say, they say, oh,
you know, you're talking all this stuff about these high level controls, but I see you're just putting
chemicals on, on ion channels. If you, if you focus on that part, it's like when you're showing your
thermostat to somebody who's never used one, they sort of staring at how your finger goes on the
button. They go, oh, I see it's the, it's the, it's the physical interaction between your, your skin
and the button of the, of the thermostat. And you say, I mean, yes, that occurs, but, but you're
missing the whole point. Like that isn't the important part. Let's say, no, no, I'm tracking
the physics. That's what you've done. You've, you've put your skin on the button. Like, yeah, yeah,
I guess, but, but you're missing what's, what's important about this. And I think that's, it's the same
thing here. I mean, yeah, we use these chemicals to get the channels to open and close,
but that isn't the point. The point is that, uh, the reason we did it is to control the decision
making of the collective intelligence. And that's the hard part. The hard part is figuring out what
signals are going to convince that group of cells to do A versus B. And that's happening at a
different level. Yeah. That's at a completely different level. And that means that you really
have to have a model of the internal perspective of the system with a bowling ball. You don't have to
do much of that. It's just, you, you, you look at the landscape and you kind of know what's going to
happen with a living system or various other complex systems that have to be alive. You really
have to pay a lot of attention to what are the internal beliefs, the goals, the competencies,
the memories of the system. Otherwise you have no idea what your signals should be.
Yeah. Okay. So why is, how is it different? Something like, um, how is this different from
something like, uh, talk therapy or something like what would be different? Right. All right.
When we, when we do talk therapy, we are kind of literally, of course, people get really mystical
about, oh, the vibration and we're changing the vibration. And you do literally when you meditate
or something, or when you talk, you, you change the vibration. Um, is that like, people might say,
oh, that's changing the bioelectricity field too. And I mean, it is in a certain sense. If somebody
talks you into, uh, taking up an exercise program, uh, because they sort of, uh, point out how good it
is for you and all that. They've absolutely changed the bioelectrical properties of your cells because
you're going to flex your muscles and all this kind of stuff. I mean, so on the one hand, yes. And
one of my favorite quotes is Fabrizio Benedetti, who says, uh, words and drugs have, have the same
mechanism of action. I think that's true in the end, that's absolutely true. But like with everything else,
it's an empirical question. What is the best level is the best level. So, so here's, here's my claim.
And, and it is a, an experimental claim and I could be proven wrong and, and, uh, we will see.
Here's my claim. The best way to do regeneration is not at the low level of managing molecules.
And it is not at the high level of talk therapy. It is in the middle of addressing the bioelectric,
uh, memories of, of collectives of cells. Now, somebody else could say, guess what, dude, you,
you, you missed, uh, you missed the most, the most exciting discovery. The most exciting discovery
is that I can, I can talk people into regrowing their, their, their limbs. Fantastic. I'm not
saying that can never happen. Maybe there's a way to go from that high level, uh, a verbal interface
to the, I mean, there is the, there is this field of, um, uh, hypno dermatology where, where people,
people can, can make changes in your skin cells by, by going through the verb. Maybe at some point
somebody will figure out a way to do that for healing and regeneration. Fabulous. At this point,
I think it's, I think the right level is, is kind of in the middle. It's the, it's, it's, it's tweaking
directly the, the memories of the, of the cells, but yeah. And that's not necessarily, again, it's not
that you're saying that one or the other of those has to be true. It could be all, all those ways could
be ways of changing. They could, but, but some of the most efficient would probably be. That's it.
That's it. Some of those ways will be more effective than others. Yeah. And there, and
there are many people, I mean, look at an alternative, uh, alternative medicine, right?
There are many people who, who say we will, we will cure your cancer through positive attitude and
through meditation. Am I saying that can't happen? No, it may be, it can happen. Am I saying it's, it's
a kind of an effective thing you can count on? Not at the moment. Right. Because there's so many
variables of each agent would not start at the same place in terms of. Yeah. And so at some point
we will find out which is the best, most reliable way to do it. Last question. I, I think a lot about
transportation because of course, like for me, this, the way that we move through the world and
these companions, this technology that we build changes our ability to weight make, which for me is
our ability to navigate our cognitive light cones or capacity changes through that movement. And so
sometimes when I'm reading your work, I think about regeneration, um, in this, through this,
from this perspective, for example, like electric motorcycles, when you're going downhill, you're
regenerating, right? You're actually like refilling your battery just by, by nothing, by just letting
the machine, the vehicle go with the inertia. So this word inertia, I wonder like if you've thought
about that or if there's any, if you can see any kind of way in which that's also kind of what we do
or we, you might be doing when you're changing the pattern. Yeah. I think absolutely. If you think
about it as in the simplest way of, of resistance to, uh, to change and resistance to stimuli. Yeah.
Every system, if you have no inertia, you're not going to live very long as a, as a complex system
because every, every input is going to destabilize you into some other region. If you're going to be
a coherent, uh, thing, you have to have inertia in all these different spaces to have some degree
of stability. Um, if you have too much inertia, then, then also you're not going to be on. So
this is some kind of a sweet spot in different systems for how much resistance you're going to
put up to, to various external changes. Are you trying to change the inertia in a sense when
you're trying to, uh, Yeah. I mean, so, so one way to think about that, uh, for example, would be,
uh, yes, uh, there are, there are ways to, if, if you have a model and we haven't published any of
this yet, but, but if you have a model of cellular decision-making that includes components of what
things do they ignore and what things do they pay attention to, the inertia are, is, is, is by virtue
of ignoring a whole bunch of inputs. And so one way to change that, to lower that inertia might be to
help cells to change their mode of attention so that they're now paying attention to other inputs.
So, so yeah, that's potentially, we, we haven't done that in any existing papers,
but that's certainly something that we're working on. And that would change the competencies too,
right? It can, it, it might reveal novel competencies, right? So you might have, you
might have, so you might be super competent doing X, Y, Z, but if you're, if, if you, if you're not
paying attention to the trigger, then, you know, never, as observers, we're not going to see it.
So patterns in inertia are not dissimilar. An inertia is a kind of a electrical pattern in a
sense, or could be thought of in that way. It could, I, I, I think of it more as the, the, the
degree of willingness to, to reconsider your pattern. Yeah. Oh, that's great. That gets to a
whole other thing about awareness. We don't have time now, but awareness and how attention and
awareness change. Yeah. Yeah. I'll let you. Okay. Thank you so much. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. Great.
Great. Great to see you again. Thanks for the conversation.
