They were different ways to evaluate what you did.
And you felt no less affirmed or achieved
because these worlds had a certain sort of confidence
or they stood for something
that you really wanted to be a part of.
Now, because arts in general and literature is a profession,
everything is done to a certain level,
but things stand out less.
I feel in this new generation,
a great awareness of what is happening now
and slight sort of impatience with the past.
I sort of feel where I exist doesn't exist anymore.
You really fell into quite a moment in time.
Yes, that's very true.
Yeah, entangled a lot of lives.
I think about that a lot.
So a funny thing has been happening lately.
I've started remembering my young self, my teenage self,
reading lots of poetry and novels and watching films
and reading some philosophy too,
more like the existentialists and Nietzsche,
but I've really been going back to the poetry
and these New York years of my life
when I was working at a bookshop
and just obsessed with literature, real literature.
Like you just wanted, it was almost like a drug, right?
Like what's the next wonderful book that you're going to discover
or what's the next beautiful poem?
One such person was Daryl Pinckney, who is my guest today.
Also a woman named Elizabeth Hardwick, who Daryl knew.
If you hear him say Lizzie in this conversation,
he's talking about Elizabeth Hardwick.
Sometimes he also talks about Bob, which is Robert Lowell.
We might have talked about Robert Wilson, the playwright,
who Daryl has also collaborated with a few times.
There was also Elizabeth Bishop.
There's this whole lineage of people that I saw as,
I don't know, something to aspire to or be.
Not in their personal lives,
because those personal lives were often very tragic,
but more in the way they tried so hard to get rid of those demons
or express how they felt or share themselves in their writing
and how in so doing they helped others like me to get through life
and not have to feel alone.
So I've been going back to a lot of these poets and writers
and one book that I read was Come Back in September by Daryl Pinckney,
which is about this time period in New York before I was born,
before I was thinking about writing or being a writer.
Daryl was part of it. He was really young at that time.
He was a student at Columbia University,
meeting and hanging out with people like Elizabeth Hardwick
and Susan Sontag and Luke Sont, who's now Lucy, the author of Low Life,
and the filmmaker Jim Jarmusch and Nan Golden and Robert Motherwell.
This whole group of people who would later inspire me when I came some decades later,
especially this group of really strong women.
We thought of them as like a tight group of friends who were living their life for art and writing,
and maybe that was a myth. I don't know.
The point is here that I just feel like literature, poetry is so important in its transmission.
It's transmitting something to us over generations,
and that something that it's transmitting feels to me like courage and power to be bold and explore life and ourselves
and share how we feel and write our stories,
but at the same time create new stories, change our stories,
things fictionalize in the space where we know we are creating fiction
at the same time that we're expressing perhaps the deepest and most vulnerable parts of ourselves.
Are we missing that? Is it still there?
I was watching this film from 2022 called All the Beauty and the Bloodshed,
which is about Nan Golden, another person of this time who was also good friends with Daryl,
an activist, an artist, a photographer.
And the film was just sort of heartbreaking, showing this time of New York,
you know, the Warhol days, which Daryl, of course, also met Andy Warhol.
I mean, pretty much anyone you can think of from this time that for some of us,
whether we were punks or whether we were poets,
sort of idolized in different ways in the early 2000s.
And that's also got me thinking about just how much pain and how much beauty,
yeah, the beauty and the bloodshed.
It's a great title because it's hard to separate all these things.
And I wanted to talk to Daryl about this, about how, again, of course,
I'm thinking about paradox a lot, but this way in which all these inspirations were also rather troubled,
whether it was Frank O'Hara, Sylvia Plath, Kenneth Koch, John Ashbery, Warhol, Susan Sontag,
all of these people from this time period were living these extraordinary, bold lives.
The paradox seems to me that we all sort of wanted to be them when we were young,
but at the same time we didn't want to sell out because the very idea of them was this striving to be an artist,
and this almost like putting your heart out every moment.
Also, James Baldwin, we talk about him too,
and putting your heart out for everyone to see felt like something that you couldn't take money for or something.
There was a real issue with selling out.
So a lot of us really wanted to live this life and be these literary people.
And, of course, what you really want is people to read you because you want to almost give yourself to the world.
You want to express and be loved and accepted and give something to people that they can then be healed with
or help them move forward the way that the literature you've read has moved you.
That's what you want, right?
You want to be part of that lineage of giving and receiving.
But at the same time, again, the pattern beyond the paradox,
what Daryl beautifully calls the sort of con of Bohemia.
There's all these things that I've been thinking about and trying to really understand better
in terms of what really moved me and helped me when I was a kid or when I was a young adult,
what still moves me and helps me now about being a reader and a writer and feeling part of a lineage.
To be honest, when I really think about it, some of the most moving moments of my life are with books at times,
with either philosophy or novels or poetry where you really feel so uplifted, you know, like you feel the water rising and you are rising with it.
And your whole body is a sort of fluid conduit of emotion.
But you're also so present.
You feel so motivated to create and give something to the world that will help the world feel the way you feel at that moment.
What this means for Daryl is I think he's part of this.
He's giving this in his writing, in his life, too, because he's a real connection between all of that that was happening in so many different worlds.
It's a beautiful thing to imagine all of the different rivers that meet within him, especially in terms of literary,
but also just in all these other social and political terms.
And I try to tell him and by the end, I think we do get to a place where it begins to resonate.
I really see him as a transmitter of something that is very precious.
So many paths cross within his own life as his life, reading him again, talking to him again because we hadn't talked in some years, reconnecting.
It just reminded me of myself, my more youthful self, hanging out with them in New York and his partner, James Fenton, who is another very famous poet.
It just reminded me of that spirit of wanting to connect with my most authentic self and feel the flow through the through time.
Remembering that lineage and that historical memory and the memory that literature is in this way.
Daryl and I talk about how reading opens up our perspective and our paths and how maybe this would be helpful for us now to rediscover this literary lineage,
letting it inspire us and move us and realize we can connect to that flow.
So I've already rambled on way too much.
And it's kind of fitting because Daryl and I were rambling on and on and talking and I hadn't even hit the record button.
And then I finally hit it.
And so we just start talking right in the middle of things.
And it was during the protests or right after the protests where Columbia students took over Hamilton Hall at Columbia University in New York City, where Daryl lives.
And we were talking about many of the same themes I've already brought up here about historical memory and political memory and how it's changed or has it changed and what it means.
So we just kind of come into it in the middle, but we very quickly get into all these subjects that I'm already talking about here.
So again, check out Daryl Pinckney.
Black Deutschland is a really good book.
Come back in September.
Also his articles that he writes for New York reviews of review of books.
I'll link to it all.
Why are you less inclined to just let everything go?
I think in some cases or on some issues, it's because I don't find where I'm standing adds anything to what's going on.
I don't feel it has much impact.
That sounds sort of sad.
And I don't know if that's a function of age.
Well, for instance, I was away during the Columbia demonstrations, but I was really offended that the administration went to such lengths to arrest students.
That's not what they're supposed to do.
And it went with this climate of being intimidated by a House committee that has no business in how a university governs itself.
They're not answerable to Congress.
Congress doesn't fund even large research institutions.
So I thought that was really not upholding the Columbia sort of traditions.
I was really disappointed at the same time.
You can always find at any demonstration someone who will confirm whatever the worst aspect of the story you want to give it.
It sort of brought me back to the days of student rhetoric and being overboard.
But then Hamilton Hall was my place.
Breaking Glass didn't seem to me 1968.
It seemed to me rather January 6th.
So I felt very kind of alienated from that sort of tactic, you know, which brought back the days when I was alienated from that sort of tactic.
Yeah, it reminds me of your book, and actually what you're saying reminds me of, I don't, it's not in the book, but for some reason, or somewhere I remember you saying, or reading or mentioning that, I don't know if I have this right, but that the way James Baldwin wrote was to just give it all or throw it all out the window.
No, that's not right.
No, that's not right.
It was like to give everything you have.
There was some phrase.
Sure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Throw it all over the fence or something like that.
Right.
Yeah.
Well, he certainly did.
Because I associate that with some other conversation I think we've had about what we were saying before I started recording about giving it your all or.
Yes.
Just, you know, saying what I also feel it's slightly generational.
I don't want to be the guy always saying in my day.
Yeah.
Or sort of correcting.
I mean, people have to make their own mistakes, really.
And so just as you're willing to let the city belong to another generation, in a way, this particular issue where it stands now has taken on a generational character that I wasn't aware of until it happened.
And maybe the way we were brought up with it was also generational since many of, well, a couple of my closest friends had survivors in their families.
And this was the first generation that, you know, was going to summer camp in Israel, that sort of thing.
And so you just grew up, especially where I lived and, you know, what was socially possible.
It sounds like more you were more careful, though, because, yeah, I heard you saying at some time you used to be less careful, but actually having read the book, this book, come back in September, where you're actually a little bit careful in there.
I mean, okay, I mean, first we should say hi, Daryl.
It's great to see you.
It's good to see you.
Thank you for coming and talking to me today for love and philosophy.
Thank you for digging me up and talking to me again.
I love talking to you.
You know that.
Yeah.
Same here.
Same here.
And there's actually too much I want to talk to you about.
So that's the problem.
But well, that's fine.
It's good.
We just jumped.
Do you mean careful in the way of careful from the point of view of now or that that guy was careful back then?
Well, there's like it's both ways, both and neither, because I feel like there was a place maybe where you had to be careful, but you were also resisting or getting away from that and going to New York.
Right.
Like, oh, yes.
I mean, that was what that was about.
That was the whole story.
But in certain parts of the country, most parts of the country or certain like you had to sort of be.
I don't know.
You didn't have to be, but you were fighting it.
But I don't know that that tension is what I'm trying to bring up.
One of the things that made New York interesting, it had a rather bad reputation in the rest of America.
And it was a place where a lot of people came to save themselves by sort of being themselves.
So the town was just full of weirdos and it was affordable in that way.
So it was also much more of an adventure for a young person who, you know, nice thing about being socially stupid is that it gives you a fearlessness that you don't really have.
Well, that's the whole youth is wasted on the young thing, right?
Right.
But no, no, no, I mean, we did things that, you know, we can't believe we did, but we did them.
Yeah.
And then a kind of innocence or belief that the world was sort of on your side.
Mm hmm.
So it's not wasted.
It's a bad word to be in a phrase.
No, it's not wasted.
So when did you come to New York exactly?
1972.
So it was 72.
Okay.
Yeah.
So, you know, it was very much in the aftermath of 68.
It was some sort of big complex people had about not being as cool as the people from 68.
And there were sort of figures from that time still very much around.
Mm hmm.
And the thinking of that time was still sort of very much in the air.
It's just that suddenly, probably not so suddenly, it wasn't.
And I think it had to do with the draft ending, the war ending.
Mm hmm.
And certainly this odd period that the civil rights movement went into of, you know, being,
trying what happens after this kind of mass movement?
You know, what is, how are the politics of change made part of the system?
Mm hmm.
And I guess that happened in the seventies, which was why people disliked Carter so much,
because it was in a way a second reconstruction.
Mm hmm.
But I think also importantly, that second wave of feminism really sort of broke through.
And for me, in the form of introducing all this writing, I had no idea about.
Yeah.
So that was a big deal.
Because, you know, we were very into the avant garde.
Historically.
Which was, at that time, what was it exactly?
Because, you know, was it?
Good question.
Yeah.
Good question.
There were several.
And, and they were historical.
So it was a kind of model for judging where you were, or placing yourself, or defining what
your sort of work would be about.
So when you were in Indiana, before you went to New York, who was it you were dreaming
of?
I know Sylvia Plath, right?
But when you thought of New York, was there, what were you thinking of the beats?
Were you thinking of Frank O'Hara already then?
No.
Or was it more just the city?
No, I didn't know about Frank O'Hara until I got to New York.
Oh, you didn't?
Okay.
Okay.
I had never heard of the New York poets.
Okay.
And, you know, Plath was just a kind of, you know, probably a real gay thing since she
was a suicide.
Is that a gay thing?
Suicides?
Well, the tragic woman, it's like Judy Garland.
Yeah, the tragic woman.
Yeah, that's true.
Right.
Okay.
You know, that sort of thing.
Not necessarily suicide.
But it's also a girl thing.
I mean, I had a big part of things then.
Okay.
I didn't know that.
This kind of early death.
I thought of that reading your book that like that play of illness, death, life, like
that razor edge border.
But, you know, earlier because of the war, it had a different meaning.
Okay.
I think that youth was, I mean, here, youth culture was aware of itself and not that aware
of how transitory or trans transitory fleeting is as a category.
Because in America, you know, it goes on forever and then one day it's not there anymore.
Yeah.
But, you know, there was sort of the rock stars and people like that romantic figures who
died, who were sort of sacrifices.
And of course, the politics of the time were full of these sacrifices.
Right.
That was kind of the sixties, right?
With everyone.
Yeah.
Janis Joplin.
I mean, you could just name so many people that were.
Exactly.
So young.
Yeah.
James Dean.
That was, that was a big part of it.
But then also in the seventies, you could meet the founders of various avant-garde.
You know, they were still alive and running around New York.
Like who?
I mean, did you have somebody in mind?
Because you ended up being friends with who for me was the avant-garde or for my generation,
right?
Like coming to New York, working in bookshops, whatever, 20 years later, that whole crowd
was.
So I'm trying to think.
I mean, we were still obsessed with the beats and Frank O'Hara and that whole scene
too, but I'm just trying to figure out who.
Well, Frank O'Hara hadn't been dead that long when I came to New York.
Okay.
And I had David Shapiro and Kenneth Koch as professors.
Oh, wow.
Kenneth Koch was a friend of his and Ashbury was around.
So, and they were certainly thought of themselves as an avant-garde and their connection to their
painting.
David Shapiro was a really wonderful teacher.
For one thing, he was so close to our age and, you know, he just was full of things I
didn't know, you know, and he would say, let's go.
And the next thing you know, you're at sort of Larry Rivers' studio at a party and you're
holding the ashtray for sort of Warhol, who, of course, you're not going to speak to.
Yeah.
Just hold the ashtray for him.
But he was very kind of generous with this.
Randy Warhol.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He was very generous with the idea that New York was this intellectual adventure.
And so that was a big deal.
And there was a lot happening in music and theater and dance all the time.
Yeah.
Something was going on.
I always liked the city for grubby, urban, you know, sort of fantasies, you know, that
your kids sitting in Indianapolis, Indiana and New York seems a bit sort of dangerous and
people stay up late and the kind of people you don't know.
Yeah.
You know, so that was always a big part of it.
For some reason I had this image, you kind of dipped into it at some point with your family
when you were young or something and had gotten the feel for it or wanted to go back.
Maybe I just made that up in my head.
No, I went to the New York World's Fair in 1964.
Oh, okay.
And so, you know, what had been on television was made real.
And yeah, it made an enormous impression on me.
There's actually not been other places I've wanted to live.
I can understand Los Angeles.
But poor San Francisco has always seemed to me just a kind of not exactly another version of New York.
I have never wanted to live in San Francisco either.
I always go there thinking, okay, this time I'm going to feel it.
I'm going to understand why everyone...
No.
I've never felt it either.
It's beautiful.
I'm almost ashamed to say that sometimes, but it's the same.
It's beautiful, but...
Oh, yeah.
It's definitely me.
I have no interest in...
No, I don't vibe with it.
I don't, like, crave it like New York.
No.
No.
No.
But now, you know, New York is different once again.
And it would be odd if a city hadn't changed in 50 years.
I find the strange thing is that that avant-garde got bought out by the bourgeois lifestyle.
You know, so Lower East Side, East Village.
Yeah.
Everyone wanted to be avant-garde.
So then the avant-garde became...
No, everyone wanted to be here.
Yeah.
Everyone wanted to be here.
It's kind of...
It cost a fortune to be here.
A plain wooden table is so expensive.
And a sort of, you know, very ornate sort of thing that you could get at a country house, so isn't.
And this is where taste is at the moment.
Minimalism, because you can't make a mistake.
And I think the city is full of people who don't want to make a mistake stylistically, which is too bad, because a lot of the eccentricity of the city just visually is gone.
Not that I had much visual sense.
Because street corners have changed and I can't remember what was there.
Hmm.
You know, these sort of new buildings.
It depends.
Places where I spent a lot of time.
I haven't been to 48th and 8th in a long time since before the pandemic.
And I was there recently, and that was a big shock because the corners are all different.
And since there was a restaurant, there is still a restaurant there where I used to go along.
It's this corner I sort of, that is imprinted on my memory and it's completely changed.
Is that where the bar is that I can't remember the name of right now?
No.
No, this was actually a good restaurant called Orso.
Oh, Orso.
Okay.
Where people would go to the theater and so I was taken there along.
Oh, yeah.
But it had, you know, like parking lot and a sort of fragile, strange old building that
maybe had once been a movie theater and then this and that were there.
But that kind of ghostly New York has, is gone.
You know, the ghost of an earlier era has been sort of developed.
So, because you always walked around New York and you could sort of feel its past.
And I'm sure you can now also because the architecture or this and that.
But at street level, it's very, it's very changed.
I find.
I was kind of shocked reading.
A lot of chains.
You know.
Chained or chains?
Chains.
Chains stores.
Like chains.
Oh.
Chain stores.
You know.
Yeah, yeah.
Chain stores.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's what I was about to say.
Or like the East Village below Union Square and Lower East Side and stuff.
And you were saying that even like in the Lower East Side, it wasn't, there weren't cafes
everywhere and stuff.
It was pretty dark.
And you kind of walk, try to get from one light to the next or something.
Yes.
You could hear sort of people having sort of rooster fights in the sort of backyards and
things like that.
Oh my gosh.
I know.
Where was the book?
You didn't work for Bob and Terry, did you, at the bookshop?
You said two guys with ponytails in the book, but it wasn't the pre-St. Mark's bookshop,
was it?
No, no, no.
Okay.
The bookshop where I worked was 89th and Broadway.
Oh, for some reason I thought it was downtown.
Okay.
Lucy worked at the Strand.
Yeah.
Right.
And it was Luke back then.
Right.
And I never worked at St. Mark's though.
That was the coolest place going completely.
Well, that's where I worked when I was a kid or like coming to school.
That's where I worked.
And that's how I discovered, for example, Elizabeth Hardwick or Daryl Pinkney.
Yes.
Because we had the New York Review and that's where we always had those books.
And like, that was that feeling that you show in the book of being kind of obsessed
with, it feels like such a small world now in a way, because I've gone so far out of it.
But at the same time, it feels like all the world still, where you're just, everything
is about kind of what's being written about in those, like the New York Review of Books
or The New Yorker, or what poetry is coming out or what little weird book that you didn't
know that now you're going to discover and it's going to change your life.
Like for example, Sleepless Nights was for a lot of us back then, or you made me feel
that again.
Oh, that's good.
It's so rich.
You're very kind.
I mean, there were different forms of success back then, you know, and I don't think people
should be hypocritical about making money.
I remember feeling that people were a little mean about the group because it had been a
bestseller more than anything.
It's not a terrible, trashy novel by any means.
And it really, I think probably hurt Mary McCarthy's feelings.
At least that's what I remember Lizzie and sort of Bob saying, because the review made
fun of the group.
But that was a kind of snobbery about the bestseller.
Which bothers me.
But I also, I mean, I felt that so much when I was young.
I don't know if you did, but I think it messed me up a bit.
I mean, not only with the writing in New York where you feel like you're supposed to be,
you can't sell out or something.
I mean, the whole thing around the beats and around even John, even like, you know, yeah,
all of it, I think Kenneth Koch and John Ashbery were more away from that, but it still felt
like all of that was about, you have to be authentic.
And somehow that got related to don't make a lot of money and have a bestseller.
Same with music, right?
At the time.
And it's completely crazy.
But it's, it's a, it's a con of Bohemia that goes back to Paris in the 1830s because
I'm poor.
I'm more real.
Yeah.
I'm pure.
You know, but it, it hurts people.
And Bohemia actually, I can't remember the history I read, but it's actually Bohemia
is sort of an elevator up.
You know, it's not a socially static zone by any means.
And a lot of these success stories of the period we're talking about sort of illustrate
this.
But I think it's also got something in it that Mary was a woman.
Nobody ever said that Norman Mailer had copped out because his novel was a bestseller.
Right?
No.
I thought he got it too.
He didn't get it too.
No, no, you know, you know, the model that the literary world I think still follows is
just Hemingway and Fitzgerald, this kind of early promise, early success.
And, you know, the sort of financial independence that goes with it.
I still think this is the literary, the model for literally the world of literary fiction.
It's just the world of literary fiction is probably when you go in a bookstore now and young adult
fiction is a huge section and the graphic novels is a huge section and anime is a huge section
and literary fiction is there it is.
There it is, but it's not as I guess there have always been genre of fiction, you know, that sort of thing.
But there were also there was not making any sense.
Yes, you are.
It's really hard to talk about because I'm thinking because here's the thing, right?
Okay, I'm going to just talk about my own experience because you can tell me.
But as like a 20s, early 20s, right, I'm in school.
I'm kind of half living in Europe, but working at the bookshop when I can, trying to make money.
And you have this idea you want to be like the author that everyone wants to read, right?
Like you're driven by that.
You're reading every night.
You're taking like spending all your money on books.
And then at the same time, that's kind of the sellout in a way, because to do that, you have to do kind of what I think you're saying,
which is write this formula book, which then gets processed in a certain way.
It's kind of transitioned, right?
Where you try to get some kind of huge contract to write a book, and then you get a lot of press.
And that's really different from that feeling I'm trying to describe of this like arty thing that you describe in your book,
where it's this life gritty, you're living the the art, you know, those things have somehow gotten.
I don't know how to reconcile that.
There was a body of a world where that was success or that was the dedication.
And it's still the dream, right?
You know, it's even why I don't want New York.
Nobody.
I mean, it's hard enough to write was the idea.
But that whole kind of thing assumptions had a lot of confidence behind them.
And I don't know if the world of literary fiction has the same confidence that it did then, possibly because one thing literature isn't sacred anymore.
It's a profession.
So that's about that.
It's about people instead of I don't know, this might be idealizing it.
But even when I read your book, there's and of course, some of this is just hindsight and telling a story.
But I felt like I always looked at these groups, right, of people who would go and talk about ideas and try to create stuff together.
And of course, there's a lot of bad stuff in that and illness like I could tell the story in a negative way.
But the point is, there was this spirit that kind of bled into everything that you wanted to be part of, you know.
And now it's more about you become an individual bestseller or something.
That's like way too generalized.
But in your book, it feels like there's a group.
I sort of know what you're saying.
I guess I'm trying to say they were different ways to evaluate what you did.
And you felt no less, you know, sort of affirmed or achieved by the fact that it was only in this world or that world, because these worlds had a certain sort of confidence or they stood for something that you really wanted to be a part of.
Now these things, because arts in general and literature is sort of a profession, everything is done to a certain level, but things stand out less.
And there's much more of it as the reading population declines.
And so I feel in this sort of new generation, a great awareness of what is happening now and and slight sort of impatience with the past, but certainly with the values of the past and especially the critical values of the past.
And also it affects this idea of sort of traditions and sort of where your work stands in a line because that sense, I think, goes.
And so people sort of think that success strikes by lightning, you know, and they're all waiting for their big chance.
And that's the only thing that matters is that you hit it big.
The rest, you know, isn't there.
It's sort of like the children's drawing this blue sky up here, bringing down at the bottom and nothing in between.
And this loss of the in between, I think, is sort of to the detriment of literary New York.
For one thing, it's not the it may still be the capital of print culture, but print culture itself is, you know, not sure what it is anymore.
Anyway, because its business models don't seem to be working.
Mm hmm.
I think that's a wonderful way to say it.
Yeah.
Especially the children's drawing.
It does feel like that.
Yeah.
So, yeah, you know, I sort of feel where I exist doesn't exist anymore.
But I think people want it.
I really think like you were talking about the bookshop when you go in, you see the youth side and the, you know, all these things that that that's where they're getting that feeling.
I think that people still want it.
It's it's just that now we kind of get it in a slightly.
It's a different genre.
It's a different genre.
But I think still crave what you had, even if it's kind of a dream.
And it still is the fuel for why I don't know if we were on camera yet or not.
We were talking about New York's or become sort of bourgeois and like it's not the same anymore.
And actually, that's because people wanted to experience exactly that what you were kind of going through.
But now it's become somehow rarefied or it's not even I don't know, maybe it's there in different ways, but everything's too expensive.
Yes, I think that, you know, young entrepreneurs didn't feel they had to become square like their parents in that old beat world beat word anymore.
You know, that they could they weren't also a lot of money people think they're creative.
That's another problem.
But I was just thinking about like the New York Review where you were working and you were the you had all these mentors that were this thing that we're talking about these poets and writers and critics and this kind of group of people who, yes, it was kind of small and insular, but it was New York and it actually was kind of the scene in the world.
I mean, it's, you know, it's taught in schools and stuff now.
So, but you were in this scene and you talk about it and how it felt like you had a kind of I don't think you use the word family, but you say you were part of something, you know, I feel like that's kind of missing in the literary world.
But well, people crave it still.
I don't know if say in magazine life where a lot of stuff is by zoom.
If there is this office life anymore, because that's what that was a kind of office life and a kind of mentorship to, you know, because you're in the country.
But more than that, it was the sort of contributors dropping in and it was the ease of dialogue between older and younger that has changed a lot.
I think because, you know, I wanted to talk to these older figures and to hear what they had to say.
I mean, I suppose that you could sort of see them as as mentors.
But firstly, they were friends.
And that's where the honor of knowing them came into things, you know, that they I mean, friendships between different ages.
Yeah, definitely was friendship was the wrong word.
But I was thinking more about, you know, they they printed me.
So what else is that?
Yeah, but I think after maybe it was kind of I mean, this this was like a lifetime once you met her for the rest of her life.
We're talking about Elizabeth Hardwick, for example, which is kind of the the song in which the planets revolve around in the book in a way.
Later on, she would sort of say she was furious that I moved to England.
You know, I didn't.
I'm sure she was.
I mean, yeah.
Well, but I guess like I was going to ask you, do you think.
Do you think.
She didn't like England so much.
She didn't like what?
England so much.
Did she come visit ever?
She visited Lowell when he lived there.
Yes.
But yeah.
But you didn't move there until.
About 88.
Oh, gosh, it was.
1990.
Oh, wow.
So the book ends it in 1981 and it has this postscript that's just 1989.
Yeah, I know.
Because everyone's dead.
But yeah, there's so much like I think death comes.
The word death comes like 20 times in the last 20 pages or something.
And then died.
Yeah.
But also makes me think of New York.
And that was kind of a huge change changing year.
Right.
Like with AIDS.
And it's one of the reasons lots of people left.
Yeah.
Is it why you left or was it James or.
I didn't know James then.
Okay.
I mean, I knew his poetry, certainly, but.
Yes.
I mean, it was a combination of things for one thing.
My father had to sell the apartment I was living in.
That's such a cool scene when he comes with the deed.
I was totally not expecting that either, by the way.
He was really crazy.
I love that.
And it sounds much more glamorous than it was.
But prices back then were a whole different thing.
Yeah.
But it, you know, it meant that I sort of could be very casual.
About employment.
There's always somebody.
Backing you.
Well.
Often there's somebody backing.
Mm hmm.
Because there are people who.
Not having.
So that was a part of it.
I also.
Got sober.
That was a big part of it.
Okay.
Yeah.
And then.
Black Deutschland kind of.
I always wondered if that was in any way.
Experientially.
True.
True, but very different in the story.
Yeah, right.
You know, Black Deutschland.
It wasn't the drug thing.
Completely made up.
The only thing that's real is Berlin.
Yeah.
But just that that pilgrimage of like getting kind of starting a new life.
While.
That's true.
Sober in a different way.
That's what I wondered about.
That was true.
Yeah.
Um.
Um.
And.
Um.
Yes.
Uh.
And then of course.
Yes.
AIDS.
Because.
So many people sort of had died and.
Um.
Um.
I remember.
Nights when.
One sort of kept on doing drugs.
Because the space that would have been taken up by.
The luck or bad luck of meeting someone.
Didn't exist anymore.
You know.
At least not for me.
I wasn't sort of.
Going home with anyone.
Um.
In.
Um.
This was 1985.
That's when.
So.
Yeah.
So you mean like.
Because you talk in the book.
I love that too.
That.
You feel.
In New York.
I mean.
I think it's very special in New York.
Where.
That you don't know what's going to happen at night.
I mean.
Even like.
Andy.
We're all.
Using the ashtray as you hold it.
Or.
All these kind of weird things happen.
Right.
I mean.
It's happened to me too.
And.
During that time.
In the 70s.
And there was this kind of.
Very erotic.
Romantic.
Mixed up with.
All the.
Everything that was going on.
Spirit.
Yeah.
But you're saying that kind of.
Everyone then had to just stop all.
Like.
You can't.
That part of it was gone.
A lot of it sort of.
Was going on.
But for me.
It seemed a very darker.
Much darker.
Scene.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And.
And I was afraid.
Yeah.
Of course.
So.
You know.
If that's where.
Most of your.
Gay life.
Had been taking place.
As blindness.
So.
You know.
So.
Fill it with drinking.
Or.
More drugs.
Or something.
Instead of the.
Other high.
Yeah.
Instead of.
Brotherhood.
Yeah.
Or.
Brotherhood became a former.
Sort of.
Must have been terrifying.
It's hard.
To think about that time.
There's so much.
Spirit there.
It's hard to imagine.
What was it like.
When it was happening.
As it was happening.
It must have been terrifying.
You know.
Well.
Really.
Terrifying.
Lonely.
Oh.
Stigmatizing.
Yeah.
You know.
Everything.
One could read in a book.
Or see in a film.
Is.
Is true.
You know.
And it went on for.
Quite a long time.
Mm-hmm.
You know.
I think it wasn't until the 90s.
That they had some cocktail.
That extended.
Life.
But in the.
Early mid 80s.
You know.
It was really.
Because you had sort of a culture.
That was so hostile.
To it.
And.
Yeah.
A former roommate.
A former roommate.
From college.
Whose mother.
Was a noted sex therapist.
On TV.
Yeah.
And her whole rap was.
That it was a punishment for.
You know.
Oh.
Abnormality.
Oh gosh.
That was around a lot more.
But then.
You know.
Mm-hmm.
I mean living with that.
On top of.
Everything.
Anyway.
Yeah.
Especially because you kind of.
Came to New York.
That in part.
Wasn't it to.
Have that freedom.
And privacy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And now.
It was kind of being.
I don't know.
A story being told about it.
It wasn't true.
It was a blight.
It was.
Yeah.
It's really.
A little bad.
So that's when you went to England.
For that.
No.
I went to Berlin.
Okay.
That's what I thought.
I thought you said England.
That's why I was confused.
That's why I said.
Well we lived in England.
Okay.
And he'd come back from the far east.
And.
Had this farm where he was starting this garden.
And the garden absorbed more of his attention.
And he didn't want to keep coming to Berlin.
So I came to.
Okay.
I kept waiting in the book for you to tell the story.
Of meeting him.
Because you kind of mentioned like.
Oh yeah.
The Susan.
The Susan.
The.
I think that's when you're talking about Susan Sontag at first.
Yeah.
She would introduce me later to.
She did.
To James.
But then it never.
I never.
Because I don't think I've ever really heard the story.
Of how exactly.
When Susan was writing.
The.
Volcano lover.
She was in Berlin.
And the sort of D.A.A.D. apartment.
You know.
And.
I saw her often.
And then.
Every day.
She took me to dinner to the same place.
Every day.
You know.
And unlike the 31st day.
She said.
I can't have dinner with you.
I'm going to have dinner with James Fenton.
And I thought.
Instead of.
What?
Thank you for being so.
Sweet to me.
Night after night.
After penniless night.
I just thought.
Well.
Who am I?
You know.
Why can't I meet James Fenton?
Because.
I'd read him.
You know.
The.
Seamus Haney wrote this sort of.
Glowing.
Review.
Children in exile.
In the New York Review.
So.
I've read this.
Read the book.
Then.
Then the next day.
She didn't say anything.
And I knew Susan.
Well enough to guess this meant something didn't go well.
I remember she.
She.
Was.
Due to me.
To our.
And I think.
Did.
But she never talked about it.
That's.
Two people.
I can't really see quite.
Not surprised.
She didn't.
Say anything.
Anyway.
So after a while.
She said.
You know what he did.
He read the newspaper.
He would.
Explain to me eventually that.
He was traveling with a young Filipino photographer who.
Revered Susan.
And he knew that if he didn't make her.
Talk to him.
She wouldn't.
So at the beginning of the meal.
He opened the newspaper and she had to talk to this guy.
Wow.
Close the newspaper and then they.
Proceeded to.
Very smart.
And then she said.
I'm sure she wasn't happy.
There he is.
And he was sitting in the Paris bar.
With this Filipino photographer.
A few tables away.
And she introduced us.
It took a couple of days.
Days.
That's all.
Yeah.
Was it like love at first sight?
Or was it.
Just fascination?
Or.
No.
Is there a such thing as love at first sight?
Big eyes and sort of hairy hands.
And.
You know.
He was a real.
And.
I never got over.
This thing I have.
For.
Had.
Had for poets.
You know.
This was my big campus thing.
Poets.
I had this idea.
I was going to ask you if you think in poetry.
No.
I don't.
Because you kind of write like it.
And you kind of talk like it.
There's something very.
I.
Like a failed poet.
No.
No.
Not a failed poet.
No.
But.
You know what I mean.
I do.
I.
I sort of.
Yes.
And there's so much I haven't read.
That it's very hard for me to move on to.
The poetry of the present moment.
Because.
I'm still.
Thinking about.
What I never got around to reading.
You think there'll be time and then one day you realize.
Oh.
But that doesn't make you kind of get off.
And the thing for poetry for me is you want to read it again.
You know.
I don't know if you do.
But there's certain people.
Certain poets.
Certain.
Certain people.
That it changes.
So when you're in a different place in life.
And you read it.
It's like reading.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He doesn't change.
Hmm.
He doesn't change.
But it calls me back to.
That time.
And that freedom of verse.
Frank O'Hare.
Frank O'Hare.
I don't reread Ashbury anymore.
I haven't read him in a long time either.
I just hadn't thought of him.
So much of it.
And.
When David Shapiro died.
I.
I looked at.
Started to read a book of his and I ended up reading Frank O'Hare.
Because that's who told me about Frank O'Hare was David Shapiro.
What did you read?
Which one do you go back to?
I mean.
Frank O'Hare?
Yeah.
I.
The last one was.
Do you remember the days when we were still first rate?
Oh yeah.
And every day began with the big apple and it's hollowed mouth.
That one.
Oh yeah.
I like the.
It's called animals.
So.
And.
You reference a few in the book too.
The movie star one.
I can't remember it right now, but.
Yeah.
And lunch stuff.
And I love the one.
I can't remember what it's called now about the ship.
The ship.
Here I am with my.
Polish rudder in my hand and.
Like.
I can't.
Something about always waiting for the ship to come back into the shore.
Or.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Something.
No.
There's.
There.
A lot of them.
Yeah.
But those change for me too.
When I read them again, but they are very.
Of a time.
Yes.
Yes.
And then.
You know, it's nice to have a sort of new experience.
I.
Did another Robert Wilson piece about the so a Portuguese writer about whom I knew nothing.
I mean, really pretty much nothing, except that he weirdly had a hundred pseudonyms or something
like that.
And by the end of the piece by the premiere, I had sort of very high regard for his poetry,
and I'm glad that I had that time with it, whether or not I'll read it again soon.
I doubt.
You know, that kind of thing.
Um.
And there are also things I always mean to reconsider.
Um, cause I think in my youth, I was at such a high horse about poetry, especially.
And that's, I think, that sort of New York Review low thing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, I was very sort of free verse in my real life, but very influenced by certain critics
in critical life.
What am I saying?
But there wasn't a snobbiness there.
I want to go back and sort of give things a second chance that I used to be very snobbish
about.
Okay.
Right.
Particularly someone like Gwendolyn Brooks.
Oh.
Um, because she means so much to Terrence Hayes, a poet I, I do have regard for and, you
know, people like that.
I always liked Gwendolyn Brooks.
I, the Chicago sort of feeling.
Well, that didn't go.
Yeah.
Well, with what you were involved with us.
No, I made a distinction between the early Brooks.
And then the Brooks that changed her mind and went with black power, you know?
Um, and that's the Brooks that people respond to now, just as the Baldwin.
I always thought of as, you know, this angry ending.
Um, people start with him now.
Um, that's the Baldwin who rings for them.
The one who's run out of patience and isn't so pretty.
Yeah.
It all sort of goes together though.
Doesn't it?
I mean, the, the transition and the trying to live, live it.
And yeah.
Yes.
Do you think, um, we are who we know?
And I mean that in a kind of deep way, cause like thinking about your book.
Yes.
Yeah.
Sure.
Yes.
And that includes family that you got along with or didn't get along with.
There are people you know.
Uh, Lizzie used to, used to advise people, write about your families because you don't know it, but they're already characters in your head.
Hmm.
Heads.
Uh, and if you're afraid to write about your family, then you can't be a fiction writer.
You think that's true?
No.
Cause I think there's different kinds of fiction, but I understood what she meant, which is, you know, don't be sentimental.
Um, and there's something about being able to write about your family, which does free you in a way.
I mean, if you get to the point where you can live with your family in your imagination in a way, I think it's a different place to be in.
Not an easy place to be in.
I would say.
No, I think a lot of things, you know, I think my family would have been hurt by a lot of things had I said them then.
Definitely.
Yeah.
I felt that in the book that you're kind of hiding.
I mean, not, I mean, you couldn't, you couldn't show them who you were.
No.
But at the same time, they were very proud of you for doing something different.
I mean, there's some very sweet scenes, like when your parents come to New York and, or, um, I think you say in one part something that like you wished you could keep talking to them cause you don't know them.
You kind of, you see this door opening like, oh, these are actually interesting people who are probably as rich and layered as I am, but you just don't have the time to pursue it.
It's not something you did back then, become friends with your parents.
Mm hmm.
Um, they were very much these authority figures.
But sweet that your mom's like calling Elizabeth Hardwick and saying Merry Christmas and stuff.
I mean, it's, it's really very, I don't know.
It's very sweet and, um, I want to say special, that's not the right word, but you really fell into quite a moment in time.
Yes.
That's very true.
Yeah.
Entangled a lot of lives.
I think about that a lot.
And, uh, you know, I mean, I think that probably youth is always a very good time.
Um, but I think so much is hanging over people now, um, war and this thing we identify as climate poverty.
Uh, the things we can't even see yet that, um, it does affect the sense of the future.
And whatever we thought was going on then, uh, the future was always filled with possibility.
And I don't know if the young feel that way now.
I don't want to talk in the generalities about youth that used to drive me crazy.
Mm hmm.
Um, but, you know, just these days, the, you know, you get this kind of last summer of something.
Um, before the, whatever, uh, and this feeling of waiting for something to happen has been
with us for a while, but this sort of insecurity and, uh, yeah.
And the disconnection.
I mean, for me, it's, again, I keep coming back to this relational thing of you actually
being, because the book, you know, it's so social.
It's you're with people in all kinds of complicated ways, trying to figure things out.
And there's a kind of earnestness to it of trying to live life, you know, and it, it gets messy.
And there's actually quite a lot of illness that comes eventually and stuff.
It's not that I'm saying like, we should put this on a pedestal as a way to live again, but
there is an earnestness and an authenticity of, of, of connection of human relation that I feel is harder now.
I mean, COVID has something to do with when you're talking, I'm thinking about the kids who had to sit behind their screens and didn't go to school.
And that really changes you.
You know, I've seen it in, in kids of friends and stuff.
It's not a, I mean, the only good thing about it is that it's a widely shared experience.
So nobody, so you can connect through it that way.
Yeah.
You know, it happened to people.
Um, the strange thing is, of course, our historical memory is so brief these days that there's things get put away before there's room for them.
You know, so everyone's living with a lot of baggage that is heavier than it need be.
I'm so glad you said that because that, that makes me think that, that was actually the part of the thrill of wanting to be part of that scene of writers and stuff.
It was this, and it's actually what I noticed so much in your book is that there's this kind of, um, this transmission that's going on over time just through knowing one another.
And I think it can happen.
I was going to ask you when I said his life about who we know, is it also who we read?
Because I think you can, it can also come through who you read.
Like if you really read certain poets, poets or authors and you really kind of know them in a way, and then you kind of transmit that in whatever you do.
Um, that lineage, that connection, that feeling of time, which is really different from what you were just describing.
That was, that still is what motivates me.
And, you know,
There's a kind of reading that makes you feel close to this book or this work and, and then maybe to a degree to the author at that moment.
Not that you're going to go off and stalk anybody or sit.
No, it's just a recognition that you can then.
But it's a kind of closeness because it's human contact.
The reason we still read is to have this kind of enrichment by contact and learning something that you didn't know you didn't know.
So I think that's always very important.
Um, people who read are not as lonely as people who maybe don't.
Um, yeah.
And it, it keeps you.
No way to test that one.
Well, I've always, there's a difference.
Like when, when, when I know someone reads.
It's also what you read.
Yeah.
It's also what you read.
I think there's something about reading stories, narratives, and poetry.
I mean, many things that what you're doing is sharing perspective with.
So you're kind of, there's at least you're learning, you're learning a kind of pattern or a habit of how to open yourself to a new perspective.
Do you know what I mean?
Yeah.
So there's.
Getting outside yourself.
Yeah.
And that, that is a different kind of.
More people need to do these days.
Yeah.
Well, many people don't.
Right.
We.
Instead, there's a closing down of pathways.
Identity politics.
And I don't want to sound like some right wing person, but.
I think we need to embrace the universal, the concept of the universal.
Again, you know, our commonality and stop with all these sort of competitive identities.
I sometimes get the feeling that in the United States, the only authority you can speak from is that of the victim.
And it's an imitation of the black civil rights movement, but it's also a misunderstanding of it.
You know, but a lot of people who are coming off as victims aren't at all.
This is crazy.
It's sort of debasing who's really a victim.
You know, it's just a kind of part of power relations, you know, to who's more convincingly a victim.
And this is a disgrace to people who really are.
You know, but it's a sort of manipulation that is everywhere in America at the moment.
And it's really tiresome.
Yeah. And I think also for the people who engage in it, because just to try to because I think when you're in it, it seems like what you're supposed to be doing sort of in the same way that if you look at certain people and they've made a lot of money or they have a lot of attention, you think that must be the way to do it.
But if you're living in that phenomenology, it isn't actually what you would choose if you could if you could know what it is.
But and I think it's similar with these kind of what you're talking about, it's it almost feels like to be part of the group, to be accepted, you have to have a story like that.
And it can almost feel like the farther you go with it, the more accepted you're going to be or the more intention you get until at some point you've actually lost yourself and you've become the story that you might have convinced yourself connected you to all these people.
But somehow you're alienating yourself, you know, it's actually the opposite of what I was trying to describe with that.
Yeah, exactly. Connecting. But I don't think people know they're getting into that.
It's just you get like in that inertia where you feel like you have to do that if you're going to be cool or part of things or make some real change in the world or whatever, you know.
It's like people if you have friends who feel the only way they can ask for your attention is to be always in crisis.
And this is a bit like that. The only way that I can justify wanting to talk to the world is about a crisis, mine or yours or the world's.
There's no other sort of register in which I can ask for your time, which is why we do like storytellers, because they're talking to us in another way.
And with the story, you get what's, I think, missing in that what you just described, which is your.
These these things are like portals, right? These experiences we have when we share them with one another, we can.
Of course, like my experience isn't your experience, but when I'm reading your book, there's so many moments where I feel so connected to you, whether it's when you talk about your sister and her suffering from that.
I didn't know that about your sister and I've had that in my own family.
So there's a line there where we are patterns connected, which I wouldn't have had if I didn't spend the time with your book.
And that's just one. There's many. But it doesn't mean you and it doesn't mean you and I like share the same.
It doesn't mean you and I share the same history or are ever going to completely coincide.
We have very different things, but it opens up a way for us to share paths and then new paths open.
And when you become a when you're just like in the victim mindset, that opening is not there at all. Right.
It's either it's a competitive mindset. That's the problem with it.
You're competing for attention as if it's a resource, you know.
And as I said, there are stories that really are about people becoming victims that we should pay attention to.
Yes, it's an important story, you know, important experience.
You know, and I don't want to trivialize anyone else's trauma.
So I don't mean that everyone is free to tell his or her story.
That's the point.
But I'm not interested in everyone's stories.
I think I'm too much of a narcissist myself to really make room for someone else's trauma or something like that.
I think that's why I'm not really on social media.
I can't, you know, you have to make choices about what you read.
This is one of the most painful things about running out of time.
Do you feel that now? You've said it a couple of times.
Are you, are you, are you feeling like you're running out of time to do all the reading and all the.
Well, I feel like I'm running out of time and it doesn't make my character any better than it is.
It doesn't make me any lazier or less spoiled than I have been.
You know, I, I, I order books and I live with hundreds of books I've not read yet.
And I don't sort of get them in the evening instead of whatever it is one does on YouTube.
It's just before sleep kind of knocks you out.
I watch sort of ridiculous things like people falling into water.
People falling into water.
Stuff like that. Cranks and fails.
I guess you need something light.
Yes.
Yes.
You know, I, I really have a terror of going to sleep with the last thing or scene or something.
And also YouTube has become my music delivery system.
Ah, YouTube is great.
I, I do think that a lot of these conversations are opening up through things like YouTube and podcasts and the music and stuff.
There's a lot of new ways that people do find connection and share their stories.
And they say it doesn't burn as much energy as it used to.
Yeah.
We have to figure that one out.
But did you say you have a terror of going to sleep?
Like you need to have the right thing to go to sleep or something?
Is that what you mean?
Like the right.
I don't like to go to sleep with the last thing I've read being about Ukrainian soldiers.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In order not to serve, I think it's so important to defeat Russia.
And at the same time, I don't think Russian artists should be punished.
Um, and St. Petersburg to me is one of the most beguiling cities.
And I'm not a well-traveled person, but St. Petersburg, one of these places where the books jump out and start walking around.
So I miss being able to go there.
Yeah.
I can't even get into that because it's just too, it's too sad for words.
But I'm glad we at least acknowledge it.
I, it's another one of those things.
I just, it's hard to get my head around right now.
That that's actually.
It's a lot of places.
Normal life.
You know.
Yeah.
And of course.
Gaza.
Gaza.
Yeah.
You name it.
Um, and I was thinking the other day, well, I never hear about my and my are.
Uh, it's not that those people have stopped.
It's just that I don't read about it.
Uh, but I.
Everything else is taking over.
Look up less and less in that way.
You know, I, I have the slight kind of falling behind with current events.
I don't really know who the new politicians in the UK are.
That's different for you.
Gosh.
I remember when you just knew every little thing.
Yeah.
But, you know, I don't really have a sense of Keira Starmer or anything.
Well, I think as we, you know, when you start to realize you have a certain amount of time.
And also it's just like, what do you want to be thinking about and what sort of energy do you want to be living in?
Yeah.
Yeah.
How much can you do something that's going to be productive?
And then is it going to be productive to think about it all day and live in it and, and feel terrible?
And like, you know, probably not.
So you have to find some boundaries.
But also I find myself turning more about the past, reading literature from the past, trying to look for clues in the past.
And if I'm able to do another book, one of them would be trying to trace my family and slavery.
Because the one thing about the White Pinckney family is that they were such big deals and such good business people.
They kept very careful journals.
And so I can find these names going back in the records.
I always wondered about that from.
Yeah.
And they make much more available than there used to be.
Do you think of New York as home?
I always, I wonder what, what, what feels like home?
Is it Indiana?
Is it?
James.
Oh.
Yeah.
You could, you've been together so long.
Wherever James land is, it's fine.
That's so sweet.
It makes me think, Sontag said where your books are, right?
I think you say that in the book.
Oh, is your home.
Yeah.
Well, where your James is, is your home.
Is your book.
Yeah.
You, you're in one of the most successful relationships I've, I've seen over these.
I've known you a long time.
It's not like we talk every day or something, but I have seen that you and James were in love 15 years ago or whatever it was.
And you still are.
And you, yeah, it's kind of like, who knew, right? Berlin.
I think it's because we were kind of old when we met.
You think that was the key?
I was 40.
I was 38.
So.
You were ready.
A lot had happened.
And again, as I said, I just like, stuck with me.
Well, you're lucky.
We were both lucky.
Yes.
There's something I have to ask you about before we go, because it's the end of your book and it's got the word love in it.
It's the Marion Moore quote.
At the end.
Yeah.
So after everything, after everything we have loved is lost, then we revive.
Isn't that the Marion Moore?
Yeah.
Can you, I mean, after everything we have loved is lost, then we revive.
It almost makes me want to think after everything we have desired or something, or I mean, isn't the revival the love or how do you see that quote?
I think the way Lizzie read it, which is that she means wisdom, you know, and I guess for Lizzie that always went with the kind of stoicism, you know, as the burden for seeing clearly.
You know, that you can't act on it.
It's just this deeper understanding you're stuck with from your life.
So that's kind of like what you were saying when, how you were feeling when you met James, this, and that's philosophy.
Oh, I was feeling a little different then.
Hmm?
I was feeling a little different.
Well, that's different, but it's also this, you said you were older.
And so you, you had a certain kind of, there's a kind of wisdom that allows you to be in a different place with someone.
Okay.
Uh, no, I mean, I, yeah, you sometimes don't know what you want until you see it and then it's available.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, love of wisdom though, I think goes into this, why poets do what they do to you too.
There's some, and it also probably ties into your family and all these things.
Cause you know, you come from a family that's loves wisdom and yeah.
So they were into education.
It was sort of one thing, real inheritance from slavery was education.
The importance of it.
I think that was a big deal.
That talented 10th kind of idea or more just appreciation of, I don't, I mean, they certainly,
I think a lot of, yeah, maybe, maybe, but they never came off quite that way.
You know, uh, I had a great, well, a great, great grandfather who I've seen an affidavit
that he couldn't write.
So it was just as Mark from 1898.
And yet at the same time, 24 years earlier, he had the South Carolina legislature pass an
act that changed his name from Lymus to Lymus Pinkney.
In other words, he went out of his way to acquire the master's sort of name.
All of his children.
I think they were 13 from two marriages.
I get the feeling went to school and his son Lymus.
I have his copy of Milton's work because when you graduated back then, the custom was to
give you either the Bible or Milton.
So I have this, this book.
And he went to the Atlanta Baptist Seminary that eventually became Morehouse.
And he was a minister in the south around Augusta and Augusta, Georgia.
And at a time when, uh, this is like before world war one, um, young black men were being lynched
all over the south, um, by the dozens.
He got his sons out of the south into colleges in the north.
And I don't know how he did it, but they went to Brown.
They went to the university of Chicago.
They went to Boston university.
They went to the new England conservatory for music, not his daughters, just his sons.
Uh, and then he died, um, early and unexpectedly, but I don't know how he did it, but I'm sure
that comes from this kind of reconstruction drive about education.
And there must've been something like a Peabody fund or Rosenwald fund or something like that.
I've been trying to find.
It's really interesting.
The trace, how he did it.
Yeah.
It wasn't for reasons of talented 10th or anything like that.
Um, well, maybe it was, cause he sort of clearly thought they would do well, but it was to save their lives and get them north.
It's a very different set of priorities.
Yeah.
But to go that way north was a very different deal.
So it was amazing.
And he wasn't a rich guy.
Incredible.
That's a credit story.
Yeah.
I think it's just, there's, we, we have to go cause we've been talking, but there's just so, it feels so rich with the, um, your family history, right?
Coming in and there's all of this, what you're talking about.
Every black person has lived black history through this or her family.
You know, in every era, we all have someone who went through that.
All those decisions that, and then it's a different kind of knowledge.
Um, well, it's different kind of life consciousness.
I mean, what about that idea of double consciousness?
I wonder what you think about that.
Like that, I mean, I don't.
I've always accepted it, but, um, I've never found the gay, you know, what we would call the, the gays are being looked at.
I've never found that very comfortable and not just for racial reasons either.
Yeah.
I even wanted, wondered about the other, like the queer, the, the coming into the, like almost like a quadruple or triple, or there's many ways of this.
Doubling.
Or is there, I don't know.
No, there's only one way.
It's just comes down to cruising or, you know, being in New York and who's camera ready and who's not.
Okay.
But I mean, more, you know, you have this amazing family history.
Yeah.
And you have this Lowell kind of heritage.
Very detached from my bad character, which only makes me care about.
Say it again.
Which, and very detached from my own bad character, which only just makes me care about, you know, being noticed by so-and-so.
And he never did.
No, but Daryl, really, I'm serious.
I know.
Coming, coming from where you did, it's, I mean, maybe I'm making it too dramatic, but I just think of you coming out of this family, which is like kind of a, I mean, a very, I don't know if it's upper class or, I mean, my family wasn't that, like, well read and well, like you had some kind of pressure on you to be a man of knowledge.
Education more than class aspiration.
I think education was part of the religion of citizenship, you know, and it was something no one could take from you.
Because as I said, they weren't, nobody, nobody was rich, or particularly black bourgeoisie, but.
But like the story you just told.
They believed in books.
They really do.
So I see you having that richness, and then you come into the Lao richness, which wasn't he like the, from Samuel Johnson?
I mean, there's this whole other kind of literary, I can't remember it all, but I mean, it's like the most kind of literary background you can have.
Yeah.
So then you're with, in that tradition.
So you have these like two really rich, and don't really exist, like at least that Lao kind of classics, trained Brahmin-ish, I don't know what you really call it.
That whole, that was kind of really, I imagine that was like really full and still alive at that moment, but almost at the end.
Yeah.
But you, you kind of smushed those together.
And that's the kind of what I was thinking about with this doubling, but then also just being.
Very true.
The queerness too.
And so there's that doubling.
So I'm kind of saying there's like, many different ways in which you were getting different perspectives that were.
And that's the book.
Yeah, that's the book.
Thank you.
And that's why you can only write the book.
No, you understood.
I'm very pleased.
You got it.
Okay.
There were these, these scenes were also influences and represented different literary traditions.
Yeah.
Definitely.
Yeah.
Not always reconcilable.
I think in writing the book, you presented in a way that it can continue living.
That's what I was trying to say about.
Well, I hope.
That's kind.
Thank you.
I think so though.
It's because if you don't, if you don't talk about it and write it, then it doesn't get transmitted
and passed on.
But if you do, it does.
And you did.
So yeah.
Okay.
No one else could have, right?
Who, who else could have those two strands coming together?
I don't know.
No.
Everybody has, you know, writers get to where they are.
By different means, but, but, but by very similar that are very similar at the same time.
You know what I mean?
There's patterns that connect.
Things you need that different worlds can provide.
I would say.
And that's why that question of, are you who you know?
Are you the people that you are with?
Is actually a really deep, rich question.
Yeah.
You know.
Your chances often come from opportunities.
And that's what New York was.
Yeah.
You know, that kind of mobility.
And also what you gift to generations to come, because if you hadn't, you, you connected,
I'm not trying to put you on a pedestal because we all do it in different ways and it matters
for all of us.
But in your, in your case, it is quite unusual, right?
That you, you did leave a particular environment and bring it with you and enter another one and
kind of, you entangled some threads that probably normally wouldn't have been entangled in the same way.
And it, it's like opening another path, you know, that wouldn't have been there.
I don't know really how to say that.
But I think that's.
I think I understood.
That's.
Connected to all these other themes I've been talking about, about relations and.
Yes.
History and community and opening.
It's a very generous way to read it.
So thank you.
But I think it's made, you know, you never know what results from your, sometimes it's
very different from your intentions.
But for one thing, I wanted to show these women as being to remember how smart they were.
With this, they really were.
And so, and not to sort of see them, I don't know.
I wanted to say in a gossipy way, but of course, it's full of gossip.
Yeah, you love gossip, don't you?
No, no.
And yes, these sort of different worlds that sort of didn't meet, but that.
Had a claim on me.
Definitely.
Yeah.
And you them too.
I think it's.
I think you gave them a lot too, probably.
But yeah, of course, these are three of the most amazing women and kind of in New York.
So it's.
All right.
Well, again, my deep.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Mm hmm.
It is nice to talk to you again.
Okay.
Anytime.
Anytime you ring.
Just let me know.
All right.
Yeah.
Well, and when you're coming to New York, say hi.
Okay.
I will.
Same if you come to Netherlands or anywhere.
Yeah.
You always have a nice.
Okay.
Have a great day there.
Or good afternoon.
All right.
And have a good evening.
And thank you again from, from my heart.
Really very kind and generous reading of it.
I really mean it.
Yeah.
Really very tough.
Thank you.
I'm glad.
Thank you for letting me talk about it and say all that.
All right.
You're too much.
I'll give you a big hug.
See you soon.
Same here.
I hope.
All right.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
