Hey everyone, welcome to Love and Philosophy.
This is a conversation with the philosopher Alva Noe.
Alva is a professor of philosophy
and the chair of the Department of Philosophy
at the University of California, Berkeley.
He's also a member of the Center for New Media
and Institute for Cognitive and Brain Sciences.
He received the Guggenheim Fellowship in 2012.
He's also an Einstein Visiting Fellow
at the Free University in Berlin.
He's the author of many books,
which we talk about here.
Action and Perception, for example,
which is 20 years old from 2004.
His latest one is Entanglement,
How Art and Philosophy Make Us What We Are.
That's from 2023.
And he also wrote other books you've probably heard of,
like Strange Tools or Out of Our Heads,
Infinite Baseball, Varieties of Presence.
And I really love this conversation.
We touch on so many things that I care about.
Some of the main themes of his work
relative to philosophy, human perception,
self-organization, self-awareness.
We also talk about how our early life experiences
shape and extend into the work we end up doing.
We talk about this idea of work and what it really means.
Alva kind of sees work as, what does he say,
a fundamental mode of being, I think he calls it.
He's sort of dedicated to that,
and that is actually connected to love
in a very deep sense that we explore here
from different angles.
Also, this word striving comes up a lot,
and that's not necessarily meant as a bad thing.
He says something like, maybe being present is hard.
I think that's important to think about sometimes.
Not that it's just this graceful, easy thing,
but that maybe we have to work in order to be present.
That's an interesting side of being here now.
He also talks about love as a life process,
something that's, I think, making us and remaking us,
and how there's really nothing harder
than holding another person in view
and actually feeling intimate,
and yet at the same time, that's what we're all trying to do
in very different ways
and from very different perspectives.
Alva and I had this conversation in the summer,
the end of the summer.
I'm always way behind posting these conversations
because they're for research,
and I need to look through them
and deal with them for research
before I edit them and post them,
so it usually takes a couple months.
But in any case, this one I think we did in August
when I was in the United States,
and then I had to go to Singapore for work,
and on my way back, I had a flight through Helsinki,
and it just happened that Alva's 20th anniversary conference,
or some people there were putting on a conference for him
because it was 20 years
since he wrote Action and Perception,
and it's changed a lot of people's lives.
And interestingly enough,
when I was on the plane going to Helsinki,
I watched a film called Perfect Days,
which was made by them vendors in, I think, 2023,
and the script is written by Takuma Takasaki, I think.
It's filmed in Tokyo.
I bring it up because it's about a janitor
and the way he looks at the world
and the detail he takes in his job
and in looking at the trees and just being present,
and I hadn't remembered it, but in this conversation,
Alva actually talks about a short story,
one of the first short stories he wrote,
or maybe it was his first attempt to write a short story,
which was about a janitor in his everyday life
not really being about being a janitor,
but about observing the world
and being present in the world.
So there's another little loop
that was really interesting when I listened back
to this talk because that movie, Perfect Days,
kind of stayed with me for the same reason
that this conversation means a lot and has stayed with me.
And as a way of trying to send you a little love today,
I'm gonna do something a little unusual and read a poem.
It's kind of a weird thing to do,
but in this talk, he brings up a poem by Delmar Schwartz,
and that reminded me of a poem by Derek Walcott.
And I'm gonna read it just to kind of close off this intro,
but the reason I'm reading it is because one of the themes
that goes throughout this conversation
and that's also a major part of my research
that I'm very interested in
and trying to find ways to explain,
goes all the way back to Hegel and complex systems
and all of this and the spiral that I talk about
with Ian McGill Crest.
And if you listen to the conversation, that's a theme,
but this looping that's not a looping, that's a spiral,
this stance that is within itself, not static,
this paradox that we hold and in so holding,
realize it's beyond itself,
this looping motion or practice again,
that I do feel in the writing,
which you can never really quite say exactly in words
of coming back to ourselves and knowing ourselves,
of seeing ourselves from a different position
only to realize that's the position we're in.
And there's something just so gorgeous about it
and it's obsessed me for my whole life
since I first read philosophy.
And yeah, here's a poem that sort of expresses it too.
It's called Love After Love by Derek Walcott.
The time will come when with elation,
you will greet yourself arriving at your own door
in your own mirror,
and each will smile at the other's welcome
and say, sit here, eat.
You will love again the stranger who was yourself,
give wine, give bread, give back your heart to itself,
to the stranger who has loved you all your life,
whom you ignored for another, who knows you by heart.
Take down the love letters from the bookshelf,
the photographs, the desperate notes,
peel your own image from the mirror,
sit, feast on your life.
Okay.
Hi, Alma.
We already said hi a bit,
but thank you so much for being here today
and for doing this.
It's great to be here.
Thanks so much for inviting me.
I know you've been traveling a lot.
You're finally back in California
and I've flipped too and I'm in the States.
So that's why I have this crazy background,
but I'm glad we found a time to talk
because I've been walking around listening to you,
some on audio books and then reading, of course,
your books too.
And there's just so much, it's so rich.
But to get into it, I was gonna ask you
if we could start a bit with the idea of organization,
which is a word I love a lot that you use,
but maybe about your path, your journey.
When did you begin to sort of notice your own habits
or begin to think of this idea
that you could think of your own consciousness
and maybe even have some agency of organization over it?
What a great question.
Oh my God, I feel so privileged to have that question
because it's not a question I've actually asked.
But the minute you say it, I feel like, oh yeah,
actually, I've always been very aware of myself,
even from a very young age.
Like a young kid, I mean, I remember,
I kept a diary when I was a kid,
starting at around, well, how old was I in 1976?
I guess I must have been about 10 or 11.
And I remember, because I happen to remember
because that was the bicentennial year,
but I can remember.
I was about to say, how do you remember the year?
My goodness, but that's awesome.
Because I can actually, I have an image in my mind
of my notebook and writing July 4th.
I can't, I just have this, I associate it with that year.
But I remember I was precociously in love with this girl
and she lived with her mother and her brother.
And I remember I used to want to share my life with them
and let them know where I was and what I was doing.
I just remember being very conscious of the fact that,
yeah, life was kind of organized around habits.
And here I was in this place.
And then I go to school along this path and she lived there.
And that's how she got home from school.
Oh, wow.
So you're already thinking about the regularities and so.
Yeah, and I remember one of my first ideas
for a short story, which I never executed
or I never successfully executed,
but was for a house cleaner who cleaned the house,
but his real joy in life was sort of keeping track
and monitoring the lives of the people
whose houses he cleaned.
And that there was a kind of fascination
with human habit, human regularity.
I never, of course, would have framed it in those terms.
So in a way, I'm a very lucky person
because I'm paid to write and teach and talk about ideas.
And that's really all that's ever really mattered to me
since the time I was a little child, yeah.
It's interesting that it came through writing
because maybe we'll get to it or we can get to it now.
But I think a lot when I'm reading you
and just also in other work that I'm trying to figure out
about the role representation plays.
And by representation, I don't mean in the head,
for those of you who think I mean that.
I mean like what you were talking about
with your notebook and writing
and what you talk about it this way too,
with writing is important and especially in entanglement.
I wonder like, what was the kind of phenomenology of that?
Or if you can remember as a kid of,
because when you talk about it, I remember it too.
I also had like a little journal
and it feels like the beginning of myself
in a way when I look back at it.
I just wonder, is there any continuity
to you writing in that journal
and thinking about those things
and kind of also what you just expressed
about being so lucky to be doing what you're doing?
Yeah, you're reminding me of one of my favorite poems
is by Delmore Schwartz and the opening line is,
I no more wrote than read that book,
which is the self I am.
In other words, I'm not the author of myself
and I don't know myself because I'm a process
that I'm trying to figure out in the middle of it.
But of course I think there's a way
in which that's exactly wrong.
We do write ourselves and we do create ourselves
in writing ourselves,
not necessarily with a pencil and paper,
but we do, we act, we dance, we play,
we work, we love, we seek friendships,
but we also are always both aware of the fact
that we're witnessed by other people
and also trying to catch ourselves in the act of doing it.
And the act of trying to catch oneself
in the act is transformative, it changes us,
it reorganizes us, self-consciousness.
I've been reading a book recently,
it's not a new book, but it's very, very good book.
It's called Love and Its Place in Nature
by Jonathan Lear, the psychoanalyst.
It's a really, really good book.
And these are my words, not his words,
but he sort of talks how in the psychotherapeutic setting,
there's kind of a way in which the self is made,
the self emerges through the conversation,
through the dialogue.
And I guess I believe that, right?
And I've always sort of experienced
that the work of writing it down
is also the work of becoming.
That connection is very clear, I think, in the arts.
Take choreography, for example.
On the one hand, choreography is dance, it's movement,
it's embodied, it's beyond language, it's beyond concept.
And yet the very word choreography is sort of writing,
the graffiti is about writing the body.
It's about keeping track or finding articulation
or organization or pattern or meaning.
So there is an interesting way in which the dancer,
while at this point, on the one hand,
moving beyond the word and the written word and the concept
is actually creating the resources
to write themselves down, if that makes any sense.
That's a pretty free thought.
So yeah, I mean, I think the impulse that the artist has
or their story or the writer has or the philosopher has,
philosophers have this impulse.
Think of Descartes, he wrote his meditations
which was a sort of a first-person narration
where he is.
And even in his book, in his discourse on method,
he similarly is practically reflecting on the ways
of making knowledge, the ways of understanding.
There's an Italian philosopher who I've discovered,
who I love, although I find him very difficult to read.
His name is Vico and he's a little bit younger than Descartes
but he's interestingly the anti-Descartes.
So whereas Descartes thinks that everything,
that knowledge is really grounded in sort of definitions
and inferences and the logical deductive method
and something like geometry.
So that starting from first principles,
you can figure it all out.
Vico is more interested in language and culture
and poetry and communication and style and literature
and the kind of knowledge that gets expressed
in really understanding what other people are saying
and their nuance and their inflection
and their ironies and their play.
And he also wrote an autobiography, but he wrote his,
Vico wrote his in the third person
which I think is very cool.
He wrote his autobiography from the point of view
of the other because he had this idea, I think,
that we live outside of our heads in relation to the other.
So that's very inspiring to me.
Is that the person you talk about in entanglement too
with the, do you mention?
I do mention him, it's not entanglement.
Yeah, I do talk about him.
I talk about him.
And with the paradox and Dreyfus, is that the same
or is that different?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that is the same.
Because I was thinking of paradox as you were talking too
and this, like what you started with or the poem
about reading and writing and not being the reader
or the writer, I'm not sure I said that right.
But, and it reminded me of the poem,
I'm not sure if it was Delmore Schwartz,
but also where you hear someone knock at the door
and you open it and you meet yourself
for the first time or something.
And also I think about T.S. Eliot, you know,
returning to the place you started
and knowing it for the first time.
And also the quote, which is at the beginning
of one of your books, I think it's entanglement
about if you wanted to see something new,
then walk the same path every day.
And the way you talk about looping,
there's a kind of practice or a movement to this
that for me feels like holding the paradox,
that's how I often put it.
Because you're not trying to reconcile opposites
or not see that things are different.
You're seeing that everything could have
a different opposite from a different point of view
or something, there's, yeah.
And something about representation
is part of that process, isn't it?
Yeah, I mean, I think there's a lot of paradoxes
kicking around.
So one, like in connection with Vico and Dreyfus,
Dreyfus had this idea that
what we really know
is that when we're really engaged with living,
ourselves kind of disappear,
and we just get in the flow
and open up to the world around us.
And so there's a way in which,
there's a way in which,
let's see, how should I put this?
The hardest thing it is to know is yourself.
But then Dreyfus, sorry, Vico has this idea
that the things we know best
are the things we make.
But then that raises the question,
well, if making is sort of like Dreyfus understands it,
where when you make it,
you kind of just get involved with the flow,
then how do we ever really get aware
of what it is we're doing when we're making?
So this idea of needing,
to use that word I used before,
the problem of catching yourself in the act.
And it always changes,
it always changes things to do that.
So that was a bit of a winding
and I think maybe slightly confused comment.
Not at all, I like it.
It's trying to get into things
that are really hard to talk about,
but that I wanna talk about that mean a lot,
because for example, this idea of presence,
or I mean, already you were talking about the dancing
and the choreography,
and somehow there's a way in which when we represent things,
then we open up new possibilities
for how to do them in a sense.
And I guess sometimes we could confuse what we make
with the making and the doing,
maybe relative to what you just said or something.
But the thing is, the thing that's hard to hold
in what you were just saying,
what it brought up is this idea of presence or flow.
Because if you're the dancer, let's stick with that.
You don't wanna be thinking about the choreography really
when you're dancing,
or that's kind of the weird space too,
and you show this too.
I mean, this is almost like a practice that you're offering,
even in the way that you write it.
And this practice opens you up to new forms of agency,
but it's also kind of a portal to not have to,
I don't wanna say think,
because that would be too hard,
but to just be present too,
but know you're present.
So I don't know, what does that bring up for you?
Yeah, that's wonderful, wonderful line of thought.
I mean, I think that, right,
the idea that you might have the view
that if anything comes for free in life, it's being there.
Like, you're just born, you just are, you're just there.
But you don't know you are yet.
Yeah, but even beyond knowing it,
the idea that maybe presence is hard,
maybe you need to work to achieve it,
to actually be in the room, be here now, be with you now.
This is really a point I wanna dig into a little bit
because is it that it's like when you're just born
or when you're just here,
we could think of different kinds of forms of life,
like consciousness at the most bait,
like just being aware, alive.
I don't know how you wanna describe it.
You don't necessarily know that you are,
and it can be hard in terms of painful,
but it's a different kind of hard.
Once you come to know it,
I mean, like come to know yourself for the first time
in all these ways we've already been talking about,
this practice of becoming aware of yourself,
that feels very hard, right?
And almost like you need time and practice
to even be able to handle becoming aware of yourself
in the world, does that make sense?
Yeah, because I guess I would say,
and by the way, these are ideas that I think remind me
of some of Thomas Fuchs' ideas
who I know you know very well,
but I think we are always in relation with others.
So there's a way in which there is no,
there is no I before there's a we,
and there's always a we at the beginning.
After all, we're born out of the,
we slip out of the body of another person.
So there's a sense in which we're literally the,
we have to work, we have to strive to become,
we have to strive to write that book,
which is the self we are, because it's unwritten
and the mere physical existence of this organism
isn't enough, there's more that has to happen
before we really take shape.
And I think that has two sides,
it has to do with achieving the world's presence,
being able to come into relationship
with what is there around you.
If you're caught, if you're stuck,
if you're ignorant, if you're angry,
if you're indifferent, if you're depressed,
you can't come into relationship
with what there is around you.
Growing, flourishing, learning, language,
all the different things that we learn
about how to use and hold and move our bodies,
all of that gives us resources for being with others,
being with the environment.
So we need to do so much so that there is a world for us.
And the flip side of that is that achievement of the world
is the achievement of ourselves in a way,
it's the performance or an action of ourselves.
And that to me is, I think life is hard.
You can probably sort people into two different sorts,
the kind of think that the basic process of living,
consciousness and the works are sort of easy
and automatic and biological and just happen,
or people like me who think that it's all
a kind of striving, it's all a kind of working towards,
like work for me, this is kind of a ridiculous thing to say,
but work for me is kind of like
the fundamental mode of being.
I work to know another.
And if I'm dedicated to the work of knowing another,
really knowing another and knowing the other in a way
which is good for me and good for the other,
that's called love.
And it's not easy.
Oh God, wish it were easy, but there's nothing harder
than holding another in view for yourself
and achieving and sustaining intimacy.
So one of the, I'm kind of, this is moving away from presence,
but one of the things that I've seen in my work,
starting from action perception,
which was published 20 years ago,
is I started out with this idea
that perceptual consciousness is a matter
of sort of skillful engagement with the world.
And I'm just more and more interested in the ways
in which that's hard to do, that's loaded with feeling,
and it's loaded with value.
It's not sort of just cognitive or just bodily,
it's human.
So that emotions like love,
or I don't know if it's correct to call it an emotion,
attitude states like love are really life processes.
They're processes of living and being
that make us and remake us.
Actually, let me go back to something
you said at the very start.
You asked about the word organization.
You said it was a word you love, or you liked the concept.
And I had a lot of pushback from my friends
when I started using the word organization,
because one of my friends said,
that's like business school talk,
the organization chart of a company,
or in the 1960s or 50s,
they used to talk about the organization man,
who was like the corporate, the corporate person.
And that was very, very far
from what I was interested in talking about.
I was interested in,
I was trying to find some way
of grounding the notion of habit,
of grounding the notion of spontaneity,
of grounding the notion of
of automatic coping,
which is always integrated.
You know, the way you walk, the way you sit,
the way you talk, the way you use your hands
is tied up to what you're doing.
And what you're doing is tied up to the culture you're in
and what's expected, and what's correct,
and what's allowed, and how you type,
and how you write, and how you sit, and how you dress,
and how you can govern your posture.
So there is a way, a sense in which
habit is connected to a kind of integration and organization.
But, and that's, I think, kind of clear
the way I describe it, how you dress,
and how you sit, and how you look, and how you act.
There's a way in which we're sometimes
oppressed by our habits,
oppressed by the ways we find ourselves stuck being.
You know, I think a lot of,
there's a lot of interest in the culture now,
we don't need to get into this,
but there's so much interest in the culture now
about like rethinking gender,
rethinking identity concepts.
And I think a lot of that is rooted in this appreciation
that damn, there's so much that we just take for granted
about the way we're put together, the way we're organized.
Why can't I be different?
Why can't I reorganize?
Why can't I do it in a different way?
Why can't I be the woman?
Why can't I be the child?
Why can't I be a person?
I don't know, that's usually the space
where it's talked about in.
So I do think that this fundamental basic thing
about human life,
which is the ways we find ourselves organized habitually,
is also something that we can never just take for granted
and we often need to resist.
Maybe when we're representing it,
we're doing a kind of disruption or resistance.
The reason I like organization,
well, there's a lot to get into here,
there's so much that is exciting for me,
but that word for me, I think of like an organ
or an instrument or maybe the root of that whole word,
which is really a kind of,
it holds this thing of representation with it in a way
because, gosh, how to say this?
I mean, there's the whole ongoing process of life
and of being alive and of action as perception
and perception as action.
I mean, what's going on, however we wanna describe it,
but then we do use, create, make things
like we were talking about,
even if it's choreography of a dance,
it doesn't have to be an object,
but often objects through language and so on we represent.
And for me, that's kind of an organ
or an instrument or something.
I mean, so it's not that,
I can understand what your friends were saying
that it does sound like you're trying to put things
in a certain way, but that's only if you don't understand
that there's this process going on
by which we kind of share via instruments, whatever,
or technologies or tools or however you might say it,
that as you were saying before,
we're sort of trying to help each other,
reorganize each other,
but also something I think is very important to you
is the emancipatory potential of that, the liberation.
Like as you were saying, we're stuck in our habits,
but we don't know we even have the habit.
So, and again, it's kind of like what we were talking about
before, where you become aware of yourself,
you become aware of your habits through one another,
and this is a kind of agency or what do you?
Well, I don't know, is it a kind of agency?
Agency is one of those words I...
Actually, I also don't like the word representation.
I use it occasionally in exactly the way you're using it.
So I don't object to your use of it,
but I do think it's a word that tends to make people go,
like, what is representation?
I agree, I agree.
So it needs to be used with real caution.
I mean, one way I like to think about it is,
and this is directly on the point you were making,
we, insofar as we're a problem to ourselves,
we seek to kind of understand what we are
and what we're doing.
And in that sense, to kind of capture ourselves
or fix ourselves or represent ourselves to ourselves,
it's the thing we do.
So we, it's like we try to,
in some sense, make a map or make a representation.
Or use language, right?
I mean, for me, language is a representation.
It's the only kind of representation,
which I'm glad you brought that word up.
I really don't think we have internal,
we can, the thing is, we can make representations
of internal patterns that are gonna be consistent.
But I think this gets very, very confusing.
That's one reason I still use the word,
because I think it's a problem that we have to solve.
But I'm glad you brought that up.
Yeah, so just to get kind of academic for a second,
I like to think that,
like we do things with language.
We talk and negotiate and argue and fight and flirt
and criticize and,
and tell and disclose and reveal and attack.
We do use language for all of these different things.
It's just kind of silly to think
this should be one word representation
that refers to all of that.
Like language is doing,
language is part of our animality, our sociality.
And I think there's a philosophical tradition
that wants to say,
no, we use language to represent the world,
to report, describe states from affairs,
say whether or not they're true or false.
I think that's just a kind of,
that's one of the many things we do with language.
So another kind of representation in the traditional sense
is pictorial representation.
And that's also, as I write a lot about in my book,
the entanglement, that's also very mixed up.
And there's a lot of different senses
of the term picture or that kind of representation
can be interestingly criticized and unpacked.
But where I think you and I are exactly in sync
in an agreement is that we appreciate
that there is this urge to bring us into focus for ourselves
and that doing so changes us.
And that's really exciting.
And language definitely has that function.
When you and I talk, we also reflect on our talking
and we try to cope with discrepancy,
like right now actually, discrepancies
in the way we're using the word representation.
So language becomes a problem for us.
That is to say, what we're doing,
how best to understand what we're doing
becomes a problem for us.
Yeah, this word problem is another thing
I wanted to bring up because you often talk
about the problem, right?
And in a positive sense almost.
And just for representation,
we can go on and on about that.
So we will bracket it after this.
But I really literally mean kind of
that we find a way to meet somewhere.
I mean, maybe later you could help me
think about that better.
But it's that we create literally,
I kind of mean like the way we wrote on cave walls and stuff.
There's some sense in which we find this third space
that's just a place where we can at least agree
on the regularities enough to communicate, I guess.
But the process of actually speaking and communicating,
I would never say is a representation, but.
Yeah, yeah, good, good, yeah.
But the problem.
Yeah, it's funny.
When I first met my wife, who's not a philosopher,
she was really surprised about the way
I used the word problem.
And nobody had ever mentioned that to me before.
Because for philosophers, a problem is a great thing.
Like you're looking for a problem
to do your dissertation on.
You want a problem.
What's the problem you're gonna solve?
Yeah, and the history of philosophy
is the history of great problems.
And what you do when you teach philosophy courses,
you don't give solutions, you give problems.
And you try to show out,
how do you know that there is an external law?
That's a problem.
How do you know that yesterday really happened?
That's a problem.
How do you know that God exists?
That's a problem.
How do you know that you're free to do what you wish?
That's a problem.
So for me, and this is a kind of philosopher's thing,
problems are good.
Problems are juicy opportunities for reorganization.
Yeah.
It's great that your wife brought that up
because that was important for me too,
to try to make clear here.
Because yeah, I mean, speaking of habits and philosophy,
in certain analytic environments I've been in,
the problematization becomes almost like a fetish
or something like, you're almost,
who can be the best at finding the problems
and what's being said?
And you kind of, then you, but that's not,
I mean, that can, so there's extremes of this,
but I guess what I wanted for this,
for a kind of more, an audience
who's all kind of all over the place is,
like what is the, where's the problem fitting into this?
Because we have this practice
which you present in many different ways of,
that we've, that we're sort of through art
or through philosophy and we could go into each of those.
There is a kind of practice
in which we can reorganize ourselves.
And how do you see like problems fitting into that
in a sort of, I don't know, maybe an art or in philosophy
or is, for example, with beholding an artwork or something.
I don't know. Yeah.
Because it has to do with this presence
and waking up part too, I think.
Yeah.
I'm so glad that you've read my books
and that you kind of are interested in these questions
because yeah, that's exactly what I'm thinking about.
For me, I said before how hard living is.
Well, I think one of the things
which is much harder than we usually appreciate
is seeing, really seeing something,
really seeing the thing in front of you
as opposed to just working on your label
or your assumption or your expectation,
but to actually let the thing be there for you to see it,
that takes work.
That takes a certain kind of attentional work.
And I think-
It's kind of uncomfortable too.
And it can be, if you pay attention,
it can be uncomfortable.
In fact, in practical life, it's important
that when I'm walking down the street,
I'm not like, whoa, I have to get from A to B.
That's important too.
And for certain purposes, life is embedded in the tasks,
perception is embedded in the tasks of living
and that's good.
But one of the things that I think art does
is it curates opportunities to do that work
of moving from not seeing to seeing
or from seeing to seeing differently,
really coping with where you are.
Artworks always exceed what can be taken
and in the glance in ways that are challenging.
The artwork says, what am I?
In my book, Strange Tools, I said,
the artwork says, see me if you can.
You think you can see me.
You think you know what I am,
but look again, you don't have a clue.
But, says the artwork further,
if you pay attention a bit more and work with me,
maybe you'll get somewhere
and maybe something will happen.
Maybe you'll reorganize yourself.
And that's interesting for two reasons.
One, because it kind of shows why art is tied up
with human consciousness,
but it also shows why it's not the art that matters,
it's human consciousness.
And in a way that practice of bringing the world
into focus is something we do try to do
throughout our lives and all the time.
This reminds me of one of my favorite quotes,
which I think I give somewhere in the entanglement.
It's from a French fluxist artist named Robert Fillieu.
And he said, art is what makes life
more interesting than art.
Yeah, I love that too.
I hadn't heard it until I read it.
It's such an amazing idea.
And that's in a way,
I just sort of captured that thought here.
It's art sheds light on consciousness,
but in a way what makes art special
is the fact that consciousness is special
and learning about consciousness is special.
Obviously there's many different kinds of art,
doing many different kinds of work.
I don't mean to put it all under sort of a thimble,
but to speak in very general terms,
I do think that art gives us opportunities to do that work,
to put it the way I was putting it before,
of coming into relationship with where we are,
who we're with, what we're looking at,
the situation we're in.
And so you have to connect to close off the loop.
And so yeah, art, like life itself,
confronts us with problems,
problems for being in relationship.
And that's what philosophy does too.
Philosophy just ends to do it in a different space,
in a more intellectual space,
but the effect is the same.
The philosopher asks us to, in effect,
realize that the things we think we know are not stable.
Therefore we need to try to know them all again,
but there isn't any such thing as finally knowing them.
So there's a kind of philosophy invites you to go unstable,
to go to let it go and see what happens.
Yeah, for me, this is really crucial and important.
And something that I think relates to another important
part of your writing and your work,
which is that philosophy doesn't need to try to be science,
which, because what you're describing there for me
relates to love in a way,
and sort of in the way you've already brought up,
because when you're in a love relationship,
we're all in love, I guess, already,
but you're kind of waking up to be able to handle that
in a sense that we're talking about,
and whether that's through another human being,
or that's through looking at an artwork maybe,
or creating an artwork, or reading a book,
or I would say it could come in many ways
that we wake up to that part of ourselves.
But as you said, it's dynamic,
and it's always going, it's always moving,
it always needs to be re-seen.
I mean, I wanna push you a little bit on the seeing thing,
but we'll get to that.
But first, for me, that is kind of what's different
from something like science,
and something like the way we were talking
about representation, where in that kind of an organization,
you need different kinds of ways of doing it.
I mean, I'm just opening up some kind of doors,
I won't give you my view of it,
but when I was reading you, I was thinking about this,
about how people in my circles even, not with Thomas Fuchs,
but in the neuroscience world,
are trying to science-ify philosophy in a sense,
and that it feels like we're hurting something
that would be like trying to science-ify art.
You express it better in your books,
but what does that open up for you?
Yeah, well, absolutely, you've said it extremely well.
So there's two crucial points, one and two.
One, science and art are different,
science and philosophy are different,
and they differ in this, that art and philosophy,
unlike science, never have clear-cut standards
or practices for measuring their own success.
They can't take for granted the standard
by which they could say, I've succeeded.
And one of the nice revelations about that
is when you study a philosophy text,
you don't sort of memorize the findings
that are no findings.
You memorize, if anything, the arguments,
which is to say the pathways to the findings
so that you can make those arguments your own
or think creatively with them.
So philosophical texts, like artworks,
become something like scores for having experience by.
Now, so that's the first point.
But the second point is, and now I take it all back,
is I think art and philosophy and science
are entangled with each other.
So there are artistic moments inside science,
and there are scientific moments inside philosophy,
and those lines are never drawn sharply
because we're not just one thing.
We're always in motion in relation to our own questions.
So a scientist might begin thinking
they know what the standard of,
they know what their test is trying to prove,
but then the experiment comes up with inconclusive results
that force them to get philosophical
about what they were presupposing.
And that's what Einstein did
with thinking about space and time,
and he realized that we couldn't just take
the meaning of those terms for granted.
They needed to be something that's basic
is what does it mean to say
that two events happen at the same time?
All of a sudden, that needs to become a problem.
That was not a problem.
We were just measuring events.
All of a sudden, that becomes a problem,
and that's philosophy.
So I think that Einstein was a great philosopher.
He was also a great scientist,
and many of the greatest philosophers,
Leibniz, Descartes, or Barclay,
were also great scientists
in the truest sense of the word.
So in a way, I think that there's a really interesting way
in which that entanglement means that you can never,
we can never dogmatically say,
oh, that's just science, or oh, that's just philosophy.
Well, those are fighting words.
Those are, we can just take that for granted.
At the same time, I think there's all the difference
in the world between science and philosophy.
It's wonderful that you say it like that,
because again, I mean, my whole thing
and what I'm obsessed with is this kind of common patterns
and holding the paradox
and how to talk about it in a weird way,
because our language is sort of patterned by dichotomies.
And I mean, you kind of disrupted this
with your book 20 years ago,
but we can come back to that.
But what you're saying, I think, is wonderful.
And it's not that we, what hurts me sometimes
is to see that we try to think
that this particular quality of philosophy and art
that we've been talking about
needs to feel like the quality of science, right?
Or as if you have to choose one or the other.
That's the thing.
We don't have to choose,
but when we're engaging and orienting,
we can orient scientifically or philosophically
towards the same process, right?
Towards with different, yeah, I don't know.
Yeah, I mean, I think to really discuss this in more nuance,
it'd be interesting to look at actual scientific practice
and actual, say, practice inside neuroscience.
I think I am, I have become more and more and more over time
increasingly skeptical of neuroscience.
Not because I want anybody to stop asking questions
or stop doing the research,
but because the things that,
well, at least when we're talking about neuroscience
in the space of the human or the human mind,
very few of the concepts we use to characterize
our experience or our consciousness or our cognition
are themselves stable, fixed, and unproblematic.
Memory, perception, awareness, sentience,
empathy, compassion, you name it.
There's room for philosophy there.
And I think often neuroscience,
in the interest of coming up with experimental results
or that is instrumentalizing the concept
for the purpose of using it inside an experiment,
ends up missing the interesting, missing the concept.
And so there's a kind of almost,
so the way I put it in my newest book,
and I'm changing all the time the way I'm thinking about it,
but the way I put it in my newest book
is that human beings are problems
in the way we were just talking about.
Specifically, they're aesthetic problems to ourselves,
meaning we can't even really see ourselves.
It's like looking at ourselves as a bit like looking at the
network, you can see ourselves this way or this way.
It's never fixed.
It's always richly indeterminate.
So what does it mean to study the neural substrates
of an indeterminate phenomenon?
So this is why I'm often annoyed at what seems to me
like a falsification or a reductionism in neuroscience
that goes beyond what we're used to.
It's not a science that goes in the wrong direction.
Yeah, I mean, I understand.
Sometimes we also think that the,
I mean, there's something about like noticing
the regularities that can be very helpful
if you're trying to understand mental illness
and things like this, or I mean,
there's a wonderful richness to noticing the regularities
and so on, but when we start talking about consciousness,
we often confuse what I'm calling representations,
but the measurements we've made
or the assessments we've made with the process itself
that's dynamic and ongoing as you've described
and different for everyone, as you also show in the work,
but we could go in that forever.
Feel free to say what you wanna say,
but I also wanna talk about seeing a little bit too.
Okay, well, one very brief comment on that,
just as a sort of a friendly comment
before we turn to seeing.
I actually think that the best neuroscience
is medical in its orientation,
like the work of neurologically oriented psychiatrists.
Actually, by the way, this is not an original comment,
but it's an amazing fact about the brain sciences
that in 2024, we still have so many different names for them.
And people talk about cognitive neuroscience
and neuropsychiatry and psychology and psychiatry
and neurology versus neuroscience.
It's so interesting that,
I mean, this is the piece
that I'm sure I've heard somebody else say.
If we have a lot of names for phenomena,
it's probably because we don't really know
what we're talking about.
We haven't really figured it out.
And I think that's really something for neuroscience
to be humble about that we're in that state.
But one of the areas that I really like the most
and have the greatest, I feel is in a way the most rigorous
is medically oriented brain studies.
And I say that because very often people who work
in those areas, like Thomas Fuchs or like Oliver Sacks,
is they're forced to keep the whole person in view.
And the really the living human being is in view.
And that's-
That's a great way to say it, yeah.
Because that's what gets lost in a lot of the-
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay, seeing.
Okay, seeing.
Well, I can even bridge with neuroscience
because with the neuroscience,
I studied the hippocampus more theoretically
because I feel like it's kind of trying,
it's an area of the brain where we can start
to see how to hold paradox.
But, and with action and perception,
your book from 20 years ago,
which is pretty cool that the anniversary is coming up.
I feel like something that was important,
like a realization that people might've had
or something disruptive about that book
was that it called into question this notion
that perception is in the brain.
And it kind of brought us into the body
and that perception is action and yeah,
I mean, there would be so much more to say about that.
But in the book, to get to seeing,
there's a lot about touch and there's a lot about,
I mean, I don't know,
I invite you to completely disagree with this,
but when I'm reading that book,
I feel like the whole body is a perception instrument
or something and it's,
touch is the best way to describe it
because it's somehow with our eyes, we are also touching
and with our ears, we're touching and everything is,
touch, but then by the time I get to entanglement,
I feel like we're talking about seeing a lot in that
and with good reason and artwork and stuff.
But I just wanted to bring that up for you
and that in this context of paradox and stuff
we've been talking about or getting beyond dichotomy
or I wonder how you see that,
that touching the way you saw it 20 years ago
and the seeing now and yeah.
Oh, that's great.
So my understanding, are you really asking,
is it sort of a backwards move
to be focusing so much on seeing?
Is that in a way what you're saying?
I guess I'm wondering what if,
because I almost think by seeing you also mean
something more than just looking with your eyes.
So it's almost like, yeah, I mean,
you're still talking about it that way,
but the examples feel very vision-oriented,
but the results do not feel vision-oriented,
I guess I would say.
Yeah, that's, yeah.
So in the entanglement, I have a chapter on writing,
I have a chapter on dancing, I have a chapter on pictures.
So it's sort of, it's actually meant,
it's organized, there's a chapter on writing,
there's a chapter on pictoriality
and there's a chapter on choreography.
So choreography stands to the moving body
as pictoriality stands to the seeing body
as writing stands to the speaking body.
So I'm interested in those kinds of representational schemes
and the way they loop down and change what they represent.
Yeah, I'm sorry, I should also say learning to look.
And I mean, I've actually looked at all of your work.
I just, for some reason,
it feels like there's more of a focus on the art,
the dancing and the, even that, you know,
I'm not even trying to like criticize
and say you've gone to seeing,
I'm just trying to open it up,
trying to understand how you see what perception really is.
Is it still, is it a embodied, whole bodied process or,
yeah, how do you think about that?
Yeah.
Right, so I, the first thing about,
and by the way, I'm actually starting a new project
with the art historian Alexander Nagel
on the history of painting and perspective.
I'm so interested in these questions.
And one of the things I wanna argue,
and this was in action and perception already,
is that it's a mistake to think of vision as optical, right?
So we have this whole tradition of thinking about light,
creating a mapping on the retina,
and we have a sort of an internal picture,
and then we compute a representation of the scene.
I wanna say that no, seeing is more like hugging someone.
It's more like, it's more like climbing a mountain.
Seeing is like that.
That's what I was trying to get to.
And out of our heads, you also give this example
of how we can see without our eyes, so to speak.
So that's what I'm trying to dig into right there.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
So I totally think that.
So that means that,
like there's, and there's nice paradoxes
in the space of this, for example.
One of the interesting paradoxes
is that we can see more than is visible.
Because if you think of what is visible
as just what projects to your eyes,
we're not confined to what projects to the eyes.
And one of the things I'm writing about
is how, in a way, perspectival painting developed,
in the 15th century,
developed a kind of account of the visible world
and took that to then constrain visual experience.
But actually, the visual world has never been
like it's represented inside a perspectival painting.
And drawing on art historical work of Alexander Nagel,
I'm trying to show that very quickly,
Renaissance painters themselves tried to explode
the limits of perspective by making moves
within their artistic strategies
that couldn't make sense of in perspective.
In particular, they got interested in life-size painting
and in bodily scale, which has no particular standing
or interest from a purely perspectival point of view.
What I just said maybe was completely unintelligible
because I was referring to quite subtle internal arguments
to this thing I'm now doing.
But this is just to say that for me,
how to think about vision, specifically vision,
is really an interesting and outstanding
and burning kind of problem for me.
It's something I'm still, after all these years,
where I've discussed how we see
and what seeing is so many times,
I'm still concerned with it and still feel
that there's ways in which it troubles us.
Now, often when I say see,
I'm actually just speaking more generally about perception
where I don't necessarily mean the visual modality.
So for example, blind people,
actually, that's a funny term
because blindness doesn't come in one size
and people who are so-called legally blind
have all different degrees of partial vision.
So in a way, blind people are really just
people who see differently.
Exactly, yeah.
It's just that what regularities we,
the majority of people associate with something like
the visual modality,
the majority of people associate with something like seeing.
They have different ones.
That's right, they have different ones.
And then among them, there's many, many, many different ones
within the community of the so-called blind.
But the point is that the blind live in a world
that is as replete with shape, size,
meaning spatial extent,
and maybe even color as our worlds,
that is we supposedly normally sighted people.
So I'm interested, I am interested in trying to explode
and to rethink what the visual is.
I'm not really answering you very clearly.
Here's a good- No, it's wonderful.
I think it's an important point
and I think there's other, like people are starting to,
there's some thing about seeing without eyes
and someone asked me if I wanted to have a dialogue
with someone who's writing about that.
So I haven't looked into it,
but it's exactly what I wanted to open up a bit
because I think your work is opening it up.
And as you were talking, I was also thinking of Dreyfus,
who I think has also been important for you.
And for some reason I was remembering him talking about
like Cezanne, the art was not about seeing,
it was about expressing almost like a bodily state
or something.
It's so hard to talk about,
but I think about it a lot in art.
If you look over time at different styles that have come,
they're not about seeing in a vision sense,
they're about how we're being in the world, right?
You can link that stuff.
It's- Absolutely.
So Cezanne is fantastic on that topic
and Merleau-Ponty wrote an essay called Cezanne's Doubt,
which is a beautiful study of Cezanne's work
as a kind of a paradigm
for what the phenomenologist is trying to do.
And Merleau-Ponty says things about Cezanne,
like Cezanne was trying to see
as if no one had ever seen before,
encountering a world that had not yet been fabricated
and constructed according to our own ideologies.
He talks about how the poet speaks
as if no one has ever spoken before,
like actually not just reusing sampling language,
but inventing language.
And that Cezanne, going back to the painter,
was concerned with expressing appearances exactly,
and that that's an infinite task.
So there's a weird way in which,
I'm just riffing on your mention of Dreyfus and Cezanne,
there's a way in which the artist is doing something godlike,
is doing something with all the expansiveness
and power of infinite creativity.
And you're right,
it's not connected to the blindness and disability issue.
We talk about vision the way people in industry
might talk about fast fashion or something.
We just assume we know what we're talking about,
like t-shirts, this is a t-shirt,
this is a visual experience.
But what is a visual experience?
What is clothing?
Targets, t-shirts, H&M, underwear,
those are prefab concepts,
and visual experience is a prefab concept.
That's the other thing Mellopunki says
talking about Cezanne.
He says, the very idea that we see
in different modalities at all
is the imposition of a scientific idea
on lived human experience.
In lived human experience,
there is no touch as opposed to sight,
as opposed to smell, as opposed to taste.
There's just our being with the world,
being in the world, being with the world.
And then we develop a model of the brain
and there's the eyes and there's the ears
and there's different channels of information processing
and all of a sudden we have this knowledge,
every child learns five senses.
Just like they learn that there are cows
and there are goats and there are dogs
and there are dogs. Yeah, but there's like
many hundreds of senses really
and they're all one process.
That has to do with that thing,
we won't go into representation again,
but how we've studied it,
how we've studied it and sort of static,
put it into static things
and then we take those as if those are the real thing,
but they're not, we've lost that.
Yeah, yeah.
So I do think that some people thinking about disability,
not just blindness, but other forms of disability,
I think are very inventive on these issues
because they also realize that
it's not just phenomenology which is at stake,
but it's respect for their lives,
which is at stake in different lives that differently.
Yeah, and I think it's so important
and it gets to beautiful parts of entanglement
and we can come back to reorganization
and organization a little bit,
but because as you were describing,
you talk about style a lot,
we probably don't have time to go into that,
this idea of habits that have kind of created
almost like streets or paths that we're all born into
and we take for granted of like what you were saying
about what's a cool t-shirt or what's this or what's that
and all of these we don't quite realize
are habits that could be changed
or that aren't necessarily the same for everyone
according to different abilities instead of disabilities.
And so I feel like within entanglement,
you're showing this process of how,
through philosophy and art, through, you can correct me,
but through somehow becoming aware
of whatever it is that's in front of us.
It could be an artwork, it could be the nature, I guess,
it could be a book, I don't know, idea
that we can then develop some way
in which we notice our own habits
or our own participation in habits,
which then changes what's possible for that kind of thing
that we're noticing or focusing on or observing
the creation of that and vice versa and so on.
I don't know, but how would you better clarify?
Yeah, that's a complicated intersection.
Entangled.
Yeah, entangled.
One of the ways I put it is that
we're not just creatures of habit, we're creatures of style.
And part of what that comes down to is that
human beings are always
not just exposed to other human beings,
but we experience ourselves
as we are or might be experienced by others.
So we have style.
So what that means is that everything you do
is to some degree uniquely your way of doing it
so that another sees you in the way you do it.
Now I say to some degree or another,
because one of the interesting things about style
is you can imitate a person's style.
I can try to talk like you,
or I can try to walk like you or dance like you
or write like you or do a podcast like you.
And so style becomes a kind of currency
or it's tradable, it's exchangeable, it's invisible,
it's meaningful, it's recognizable
so that we're all the time.
I sort of have this image of fireflies
flashing their lights in the summer night.
I just saw some last night, by the way.
Oh really?
Yeah.
I think right in Atlanta area you would see that.
Yeah, I was very excited,
because I hadn't seen them in a long time,
so it's great you brought that up.
Yeah.
Do you call them lightning bugs or fireflies?
Yeah, lightning bugs.
Lightning bugs.
I think I grew up calling them fireflies.
But lightning bugs, they flash, they fire,
they flash at each other.
And there's this kind of,
and I think that's what we're like,
we're constantly flashing at each other.
And then based on how people respond to us,
we also change ourselves.
I don't mean to make it all sound too intellectual.
A lot of this stuff is not self-conscious.
I think it's just hard to talk about it,
it's like you're always,
that's why it's a practice, right,
that you show in the writing,
because you have to hold both of these things at once,
that habits are sort of inherited,
and also because we're unique,
spatio-temporal bodies, they're unique.
It's at the same time.
Yeah, yeah.
And we can, as you kind of express,
we can wanna be identified with certain regularities,
and so we take on those regularities,
which is taking on the habits, which is a style.
But at the same time, we can never escape our body,
so we're gonna always have something a little bit,
a little bit of a different flash,
for the firefly or whatever.
I mean, we're always in this.
Yeah, yeah.
And another thing about style
is that you can criticize another person's style.
Like, you can, you might not see it.
It's a little bit like how hard it is to see,
but if you see it, you can say,
oh, that's kind of a pretentious style,
or that's, I don't know,
that's awkward or ungainly,
or I don't know, whatever you might say, it's critical.
But the very fact that it's a space
of possible criticism is interesting.
It's also a space of possible praise.
In my book, Strange Tools, I argue,
this is a piece I wrote that,
it's after the book that nobody else has ever,
very few other people have picked up on it,
but I think it's such a clever idea,
is I argue that pop stars are really style stars.
They're style artists.
What they're really working with is style,
and they use music as an instrument
to further the cultivation of style,
which is why when we go to rock concerts or-
Don't you go to a concert in the book
when you're talking about this?
Or is that confusing something else?
Maybe it's learned.
Yeah, maybe in Learning to Look,
I talk about some concerts.
Learning to Look, yeah.
But the idea that we,
I was just hearing an interview on the radio today
with the Swiftie talking about going to a Taylor Swift concert
and screaming and shouting and dancing
and singing along and dancing and singing along.
It's less about listening to the artist make music
than it is joining with the artist
in some kind of celebration.
Yeah, becoming that kind of,
I don't know, it relates to this embodied perception,
action, flow that we were talking about earlier,
where when you're in a group, for example, at a concert,
you kind of become that together.
I don't know, what is that that's so exciting about that?
It reminds me of you writing in your notebook,
or you're a little kid or something.
Is there some kind of,
it's not that we're reflecting ourselves,
but we're almost like expanding.
Yeah, that's a very interesting question.
I don't have a good answer to that.
I remember when I was, to get personal again, in 1986,
I also remember the year.
Maybe it was 1985 or 87,
but the reason I remember the, it might've been 85,
the reason I kind of remember the year is
I was at a protest at Columbia University
against the university's investments in South Africa.
And I was with my two friends,
and one of my friends was saying,
well, you know, these mass gatherings
are kind of alienating, and they put you in an emotional
space that takes you away from the right use of your reason
and your reflection, your self-control,
and they're dangerous,
and we should resist getting caught up in the,
in the power of the crowd.
The crowd, like Elias Kaneti or something.
Exactly, exactly, and I was arguing,
actually, no, you just need to let go and trust,
trust the process, and that, you know,
this is a chance to have solidarity with these other people.
And I remember we had this interesting argument about it,
and both points were true.
Exactly, again, I was gonna say it's a paradox,
because if you're gonna let yourself go with the flow,
you also need to be present of yourself still
to be able to catch yourself, unveil yourself, so to speak.
That's a hard thing to learn, isn't it?
I mean, you brought up this time period.
Like, when did you start thinking that philosophy
was the way to deal with these things?
Like, was it just a natural flow, and then from there,
I think the artist kind of discovered you,
and then it kind of went into that,
or I wonder about that organization
and reorganization of you and your life.
Yeah, yeah, I'm very lucky, because in a way,
I started as a very young person,
like 12 or 13 years old.
I was very, I was already interested in writing,
and I quickly got interested in philosophy.
I think it was in eighth grade when I read,
for the first time, I read a philosophical piece of writing.
What was it, do you remember?
It was Jean-Jacques Rousseau's
Discourse on the Origins of Inequality.
Oh my gosh, in eighth grade, okay.
Yeah, my history teacher gave it to me,
because we were studying the French Revolution,
and she said, you should read this.
Teachers, I love teachers.
They give us these little things
that just sit us on courses for the rest of our lives.
Absolutely, she cared about what I had to say about it.
She respected me, she made me feel like my thoughts
and opinions were relevant.
Yes, Mrs. Gordon, she's gone now, but.
Thanks for saying her name.
I just had dinner with a friend of mine who's a teacher,
and I was literally telling her
that they're like the most important people in the world
for exactly this reason.
Yeah, I agree, I agree.
And then a little while after that,
a guy, a carpenter who worked with my father,
had a copy of a little book by Sartre
called Existentialism and Human Emotions.
It was a little slim paperback.
I still had it, because he gave it to me.
Oh, wow.
And it was lying around,
it was lying around my dad's, my parents' house,
and I read it, and I remember not understanding a lot of it,
because he talked about Catholicism,
and there's all sorts of politics in it,
like Marxism, I didn't know anything about,
but he did talk about this idea
that philosophers used to think
that your essence preceded your existence,
that what you are was fixed,
and then you just come into being.
But we believe that existence precedes essence,
and you can make yourself what you want to be,
or what you are, like you can make yourself yourself.
And I didn't, I was literally 13 years old,
so I didn't understand that the way one would as an adult,
but it totally blew my mind.
It completely blew my mind, and yeah,
so I kind of thought that I had
a natural attraction to philosophy,
but I still didn't really,
if I can just say a little bit more about myself personally,
I didn't really know what philosophy was.
It was more that you found this exciting book that-
For example, I actually thought literature
was what I wanted to be,
I wanted to be a writer,
and I'm reading novels and short stories
that seemed to me this really amazing, amazing place.
Well, that makes sense, because you found that,
did you find the power of,
was that unveiling you to yourself a bit
when you started reading and writing?
Or there's something that feels very, yeah,
connected to what you're doing in the philosophy there,
that this looping.
Yeah, well, there were three things
that I read, and now maybe I'm in 10th grade by now.
One was James Joyce's The Portrait of the Artist
as a Young Man, one was Thomas Mann's short story,
Tony O'Kruger, and do you know that one?
Thomas Mann is big for me too.
And one was a crazy short,
not a novella by Robert Musel called Young Tourless
in English, or in German,
it's called Die Favierung des Zirpings Tourless.
Yes, I also know Robert Musel too,
that was a big thing, I think I've read that one before,
but I'm having trouble, is he like-
It's a crazy story about a boy in a military academy,
and it involves kind of bullying and brutality
and sexual experimentation,
and but all these people-
Very disruptive, pushing at the edges
all of these books that you described.
It shocked me, all of them shocked me,
and all of them were by boys,
all of them were about artists,
all of them were about the artists finding themselves
and becoming who they were to become.
And in a very romantic way, that totally captivated me,
and those books really, really meant a lot to me.
And the reason I mentioned that is that
I then went off to college and I actually,
I tried writing fiction or poetry,
and I never really knew how to do it,
I never, I could never do it,
I could never figure out how to do it.
But when I took a philosophy class, I knew how to do it,
like it just came very, very natural to me.
And by the way, I didn't, I had to learn so much,
and I flunked out of things,
and I had to work very hard to actually become,
to become good at it.
But the interesting thing, and then I'll shut up
because I'm going on too long,
but the interesting thing for me personally is that,
is that I then sort of found my bearings
in academic writing, doing philosophy,
but gradually over the course of 25, 30 years,
worked myself back to the point where I began,
which was that what I was really trying to do
was at one with this artistic practice.
I'm not doing science,
I'm not trying to prove little theorems,
I'm not trying to make my contribution
to a pre-existing problem,
I'm trying to free myself in the way art can do
in the ways I find myself being.
That's very beautiful, freeing yourself
in the way art can do,
because I talked about emancipation,
and I do feel like that's kind of what the entanglement,
once we understand what you're trying to say in entanglement,
there's a kind of liberation or something.
And yeah, that's beautiful.
It makes a lot of sense that there's books
and that there's so much about art,
and that they're also connected to another word
I wanted to talk to you about,
but we'll just kind of touch on it really quickly,
is performance, that there's a performative aspect
that's not performance like fake,
but performance like artistic,
a way in which that becomes the process of recognizing
or reorganizing and organizing,
or where those organizing and reorganizing meet, so to speak.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, yeah, because we're not in our heads,
we're in what we do,
and performance in a way is a term
for the most general modalities of our doing.
And performance also carries this idea,
which is so important to me,
that it's not just doing,
but it's doing in a social space,
it's doing potentially at least under the eyes of others.
I think there's this whole idea
that the real you is hidden away inside of you,
but I think actually that the real you
is something which is always becoming in performance.
So the word I used in action perception was inactive.
It's an inactive approach to perception.
We enact our perceptual consciousness in what we do.
Sometimes I talk about achievement,
sometimes I talk about performance.
Judith Butler talks about performance,
and she took that idea from the ordinary language
tradition philosophy to Austin,
and the idea of speech acts and things like that.
So I use it in a slightly different way from her,
but I think my usage agrees with hers.
Right, the idea that performance isn't superficial,
that performance is existential.
Yeah, right, exactly, right back to that Sartre
and that stuff of, it feels more almost like
putting yourself to be seen
in the way that we've been talking about sight,
which is very hard for us,
and I almost feel like our habits as a society,
as you were kind of touching on,
are almost like to do the opposite now,
you hide your real self away,
or you're trapped in your brain,
and so your real self is trapped in your brain,
there's something very liberating
about thinking of performance as a space
to connect and reorganize and be safe,
even as you take risks, I don't know.
Yeah, right, that's what we,
that's like as a parent,
that's what you're trying to let your kid understand,
that they can do, they can act, they can be,
they can fuck up, excuse my language,
and that it's safe to do that,
it's safe to try to do things,
and in some households,
people are too critical,
they shut down the freedom that the child has to act.
I'm so glad you brought that up
because I wanna come to love, right?
We have to go, I mean, I could talk forever
about a lot of these things,
but for now, that what you just described
feels to me like love, there's some kind of,
I think it's a Winnicott quote or something
about the child being able to play
in the presence of its mom
without knowing its mom is there or something,
where you open up the space where you're safe
to be and explore, does that have to do with,
I mean, we've been talking a lot about individual
and philosophical and art,
but there's also the idea of like a wider idea
of organization in terms of what we are as humans,
and do you see a way in which maybe it's too idealistic,
but could we learn to treat each other like that
in other areas of life too?
You mean, is it possible to love each other?
Is that what you're asking?
I'm not sure I understand.
I guess to, I hope it's,
I know it's possible to love each other,
but I suppose in something like the performative aspect
of one of these ideas of art,
or even in philosophy or science,
or when we think about like the major challenges
that we face as humans,
let's even go there ecologically or mentally,
or in terms of what we fight about,
we're entangled, right?
And understanding that entanglement
in the way that you present it,
whether through the making,
like if we wanna think of it as art or through the theory,
if we wanna think of it in terms of the philosophy
and the way we come up with these guiding habits.
I mean, when we realize we're entangled,
when we develop this practice that we've been talking about,
and I know you don't wanna use the word agency,
but I do feel like it's a kind of free will or something
that you can unveil yourself to yourself.
Does it also give us a chance to look at that differently
maybe from a different place?
Do you ever think about that or is it too big?
Yeah, yeah, no, no, I do, I do.
Just quick little parenthetical comment on agency.
One of my biggest criticisms of myself,
of my writing or of my view,
is that I haven't quite come to grips
with the notion of agency.
Because
so much of what we do
just happens to us.
And so how do we, but yet it's still what we do.
Like we let it happen or we enable it to happen
or we express ourselves and it's happening.
So how to find that balance.
So since Action and Perception till now,
I've been always trying to find a way to
tell a story of the self
as both striving and achieving
and trying to find a way to express yourself.
As both striving and achieving,
but also as part of a larger world
involving a social phenomenon.
Anyway, it's just a term I'm,
it's just a thing I'm really busy with
in the sense that it's a problem for me.
There's free will and there's not free will.
I mean, it's a lot of what we've been trying to do here
and what I think this practice of entanglement
is trying to do.
If we unstick it from a linear mindset,
which is another reason I like organization
because it implies that everything is already there
and there's no beginning or end,
but everything's constantly scaling
and reconfiguring differently.
Then you have both of these at once.
They're parameters by which of course you don't have free will
and then there is, but within that you do have some.
To put it, to now go back
to the other sort of thing you're asking,
maybe this is not quite the level you're asking it about,
but I do think that one of the discoveries,
it's important to me,
you already touched on it,
is that science is different from art and philosophy.
And I guess, I think we need art and philosophy.
I mean, we can't escape art and philosophy,
even if we try to, but trying to is dangerous.
It leads to a culture dominated by science and engineering
and sort of a kind of capitalism run amok, I think.
And I'm worried about,
I'm worried about changes happening in society
that have to do with the disvaluation of philosophy
and art and acting as if they're only really valuable
to the degree that they're like science.
So philosophy is valued
because it is actually making contributions
the way science does.
And I'm sure you know that in the Netherlands
and in many places in the world now,
a lot of times the way art is funded
is through university degrees.
So you have artist research
and that's great that artists are being funded,
but it's kind of bad that they're being funded
as if they're science.
Because I think they should be able to be funded
for their own autonomous form of work.
Anyway, so I guess I do think that
I wish that there were a way to bring this kind
of understanding that I'm trying to develop in this work
into a more public conversation.
Like I wish to use the language you've been using,
I wish we could hold paradox in public spaces more readily.
I don't wanna get into politics,
but just a very interesting thing that happened recently
was the controversy over
President Biden's cognitive decline,
his perceived cognitive decline.
And I just thought that would have been
such an amazing opportunity for the world
to have a conversation about neurodiversity,
changes in consciousness,
the fact that there isn't only one way
to be a conscious human being,
an intelligent human being, a competent human being,
whatever your views about whether or not he,
I don't really know anything about his specific cases,
but you can be changed and different,
and yet capable of work, capable of leadership, capable.
And that seems to me a very simple case
where we should be able to hold both sides of that
in a public space.
But I haven't heard anybody say that.
It's either yes or no, black or white.
Exactly.
And that speaks to this style and habits
and this that I think it's Simone de Beauvoir
talks about being kind of railroaded into things
and you don't even know you're on the railroad or whatever.
And I guess what I feel in your book
and what I feel in a lot of really good philosophy
is that there's a practice to it.
There is a performance to it that as you talk about a bit,
you almost show us or teach us the patterns
of a different way of kind of moving, right?
Moving in thought, but also in body.
I mean, it's because those aren't separate.
And I feel like we need that now on many different scales.
Like it's an important, the making and the theory
actually scale up to these levels
like what you're discussing right now.
I mean, this I'm getting to my own stuff, I guess,
but I do feel like we're stuck in a way
where we think a paradox means you choose
between different one or the other
instead of like what you just described,
opening the space, holding the paradox is what I say,
because then you see the richness of,
oh, it could be like this or it could be like this
or I'm this person in this situation
and this person in another.
And as you talked about at the beginning,
that's very hard to be alive in that way.
It's a hard thing, it's work, but we need ways to do it.
Yeah, that's beautiful.
I completely am with you on that.
And it goes to thinking about rationality.
I think people think there's just one way to be rational,
but on that one way of being rational,
there's the evidence, there's the rules of logic
and there's what follows
and either you're right or you're wrong.
But what's interesting is that in so many domains
of human life, right and wrong are meaningless terms.
If you and I, or they're not meaningless terms,
but they're intrinsically disputable terms,
that's the point.
So, I might think, no, it's wrong to do that.
And you might say, no, it's not wrong to do that.
And both of us, neither of us is thinking,
both of us are committed to the value,
to the idea that there's a difference
between right and wrong,
but we realize that it's fraught,
it's a site of conflict, it's potentially disputable.
And to me, that's the very hallmark of the aesthetic,
which by the way, the philosopher who I think,
two philosophers who I think really brilliantly
understood this.
The first was Kant, who in the third critique says
that the interesting thing about the aesthetic
is that there are no rules, there's no, there's no proofs.
There's no, like I can't prove to you
that something is beautiful,
either it is or it isn't for you, right?
Either you experience it's beauty or you don't.
But beauty is not merely subjective,
or questions of aesthetic aren't merely subjective.
They're both intersubjectively significant.
It's not just beautiful for me or beautiful for you.
We can argue there's something for us to fight about that.
And yet there's no independent decision procedure
for deciding.
And that's also, I think, I think,
although I think some people wouldn't agree with me,
I think something like that is true throughout our lives.
It's true in ethics, it's true in politics,
and it's true in relationships, and it's true,
it's true all over the place.
And we need a new conception of reason
that lets us encompass that.
I agree, and that touches on something you discuss
in different books, too, of not thinking of reason
as a choice you make over emotion,
or instead of emotion, or instead of feeling,
that in the same way, those aren't either or either, you know?
And, yeah, and as you were talking,
I was thinking, you know,
if two people are walking to the same place
or up a mountain from different paths,
then we could fight about whether we should go right or left,
but it makes no sense because we're on different paths,
but we might still get to the same place
even if we go different directions.
But we don't have a way of talking about that,
thinking about that yet.
But I think what you're doing and the kind of philosophy
that you've been working on for all this time
opens that up because, you know,
perceiving is a way of acting,
and acting is a way of perceiving,
and it's a way of holding the paradox for me
of what all this stuff we've been talking about.
So I just want to say thanks for doing it,
and I'm glad you read those books when you were a kid
and started on your lucky path.
Yeah, well, thank you so much for being so interested
and curious, and through your interest and curiosity,
very inspiring to me, there's nothing,
I'm sure you know this in your own creative work,
that there's nothing that feeds you more
than the sense that you're in a relationship
with someone else, so thank you.
