This paradigm of we have today of wanting to label everything and think in a very binary,
dualistic way is so embedded in the way we think and relate to one another.
And as a child, that was something I grappled with just on a personal level.
I was raised by a single mother and I didn't know my biological father until I was like
11 or 12 years old.
So I had this sort of question that lingered in my mind of like, who do I label father
in my family tree?
I was always terrified of the genealogy project in school because was it my grandfather who
is like a predominant male influence, you know, fatherly figure in my life?
Was it my eventual adopted father?
Was it, you know, like I, so I struggle with the concept of a label.
Why do I have to ascribe a label to this relationship?
So I always struggle with labels, right?
As a, as a child.
And then the shift is in categorical thinking category theory isn't about labels like, like
set theory is about, is it in the set or is it not that set theory is sort of the, the
traditional foundation of math for the last hundred, 150 years where we, we assign things
membership, right?
Based on, on a label and category theory is the opposite.
It's like, describe the role that the thing plays in, in my life.
Like what's the role that I don't care what, what to call this person, I want to understand
what's the relationship they have to me.
And can I define things based on the relationship to other things?
That's called the, in category theory, they call it the Yoneta perspective.
One of the most powerful results in category theory was this Yoneta lemma, which says you
can define an object basically by its relationship to other things, rather than trying to define
an object by its intrinsic characteristics or its membership to a group.
Hello everyone.
Welcome to love and philosophy.
So the reason behind this podcast and way making and navigability and pretty much everything
I've been doing the past 10 years of my life in one way or another, uh, could maybe be
explained in large part or some part as a motivation to find a new norm of understanding beyond dichotomy,
to connect across ways of life and disciplines in love, to understand life's movement or the
movement of life as cognitive, but not cognitive in the way we've thought.
In other words, to notice the pattern beyond the paradox.
That's how I've been thinking of it lately. Weirdly though, and challengingly to notice
this pattern beyond the paradox or to explore this space beyond dichotomy doesn't mean we
invalidate or erase those experiences that we call paradoxes or dichotomies or opposites
or either ors, which is part of why it's so hard to explain.
It's a little bit like trying to use dichotomy to get beyond it.
Our language itself is sort of built in with all of this.
So it's like trying to find the beginning and end of a fractal.
In any case, what has been extremely helpful and also difficult in terms of my learning
curve is to try to find mathematical understandings of how to do this mathematical theories, expressing
how many valid paths can lead to the same place in a multi-scale level of space and time
and areas of our lives. So in other words, to try to get past thinking in linear ways
about paths and spaces, while also understanding that many different kinds of paths in these
many different spaces can be understood in common.
That's part of all this philosophy and science. We're communicating with one another so as to
expand what's possible. But at the same time, as we do that, we perpetuate what is possible.
So we can never pin down something objective in one measurement or one definition, because
the measurement itself is a change. So you see this kind of process of what comes to be
called dichotomy or dialectic or paradox or something, but it's this dynamic movement.
So how can we understand this? How can we understand no one assessment or measurement is objective
from every spatiotemporal position, but at the same time, measurement and assessment, when
we know that that's what it is, is probably the most robust and meaningful way we can learn
and share and know, at least outside of art and those sorts of creations like music and
novels and things like that, which are also very important too, and are actually not disconnected
from this, which would be a whole other theme. But today I want to think more about these
theories and models, because today's guest is Brandon Baylor, and he's working with a general
theory of mathematical structures and their relations, relation being a keyword, which
is known as category theory. And the ways this is important to all this rambling I've
done so far is that he and another of our colleagues at Hold On Labs, Esteban Montero. Esteban and
Brandon have decades of experience in engineering. They're both graduates of MIT, and they've had
a similar experience, as you'll hear in this conversation, in terms of trying to understand category
theory in the ways that I'm hinting at above. They wrote a book called A Categorical Defense
of Our Future, which does this really hard and, frankly, really bold work of trying to
communicate how this theory can help us in a personal way, or how it helps us think through
a mental framework that might be a better fit for the complexity of the world we find ourselves
in today. And they're doing that in a lot of different fields, but I mean, in this field
of engineering, that's really quite a bold thing to be trying to do. So yes, Brandon is an engineer.
He's worked for some of the biggest companies in the world. But he's also a person who, as you'll
hear, taught himself or went out and found the people who could teach him how to understand category
theory in a really rigorous mathematical form. And then he did the hard work of thinking through
his own life and experience with this framework almost as a tool, and then sharing that with us
and with you. That's what he and Esteban do in their book. And it's just beginning. It's a hard
process. It's breaking new ground. But I think it's a really important journey. And I really am
thankful to Brandon for sharing his journey here and for living his life in a way where he tries to
learn and grow and be vulnerable and talk about difficult issues. And at the same time, live up to
very high standards as an engineer and in terms of the math. So that itself is already kind of an
expression of this pattern beyond the paradox. So I hope you'll read their book, have a look at it,
join this discussion towards clarifying and better connecting all these ideas. And I also hope you
enjoy this episode and that it feels alive and loving for you or that life itself feels alive and
loving for you today as you make your way. Thanks for being here. Hi, Brandon. So good to see you.
Thanks for being here today. You bet. I'm happy to be here. So there's so much I want to talk to you
about. And I'm going to try to start from a more personal place for me, actually, and see if we can
get into this broad world of category theory. So I'm trying to do this podcast for research reasons.
And there's so many different areas that I'm interested in or that meet relative to the
philosophies that I'm doing and the many different kinds of work I'm doing. And it can seem overwhelming
because I feel like there's so much information that is so interesting. And I try to think, how do,
how can I make all of these seemingly different areas comprehensible or connect? I just put that
forward. I wonder if you see that as a possible problem relative to what category theory
offers us. Sure. So I spent the last, I think, going on 15 years working as an engineer and
operations, dealing with systems and exactly what you're saying, this multidisciplinary
background that I have seen this problem at coming from the angle of engineering, trying to integrate
different disciplines and domains across the global organization. I've worked for a fortune 500
company my whole career. It's one of the most resourceful companies, but still challenged to
integrate. And how can it be that we continue to struggle putting our ideas together across
different disciplines when we have so much access to resources and technology today? Right. So just
kind of getting to the answer to your question, I think that's what category theory was really
designed to do in the early days. So category theory started in the forties, right, as an idea to be
able to transport concepts and theorems across the different vast domains of mathematics itself.
So I think by its very nature, it's sort of meant to be that connective tissue that
relates ideas together using different methods, different ways of sort of formalizing those ideas
and sharing them. So I think category theory is well positioned to be that sort of language that
helps us integrate the different domains of knowledge or systems or whatever it is that we're
working on. So you've worked for a lot of really big companies. We're not going to go into
all of that, but you've worked in engineering and management, solving problems, problem solving.
I wonder when category theory came into the picture?
I grew up in a small town and always knew I wanted to be an engineer. I had an affinity for math and
science, and I love science fiction. So I was always drawn to technology and machines and innovation
and new ways of thinking. So I knew I wanted to be an engineer, but I sort of stumbled into my career
in the energy industry as an engineer. I would say that my disposition to sort of resonate with
category theory, I think the seeds were planted in my childhood, and maybe we can come back to that.
But I think the more straightforward answer from an engineering perspective is I had several examples
as an early career engineer where I was trying to design a system in my domain, my specialty.
And as happens a lot in engineering, I have to adapt to a changing requirement or a changing
standard. And so I remember this one case very vividly in my early career, like second or third
year out of undergrad, and I'm still learning, new engineer. And I basically had to read, I had to
absorb a changing requirement into my domain. I came up with a new design. It was superior from a local
content, a local sense, like it was faster, cheaper, safer. And so I got rewarded for that sort of local
redesign of the system. And however, you know, even though I'm getting pats on the back, the sort of
promotion, six months later, I get a call from a team that's like six degrees removed from me in the
sort of workflow. And they're calling me like, what the heck, you just created all this more problems
for us. And so that was an instance in my early career where it didn't sit right with me that how can
someone be rewarded for sort of a local change? And yet it impacted the whole in a, in a, you know,
it hurt performance as a whole. And so I always sort of stuck with me, I didn't have a vocabulary
or training to articulate what to do about it other than, you know, you make better use of meetings
and phone calls and tribal knowledge. And because we didn't have like a more formal way to sort of see
that the implications of when we make a local change, how does it affect the whole? And so that was
one instance, I've seen many more in my career, whether it was a safety related thing or performance
related event. But, you know, I went about 10 years into my career with facing those experiences over
and over again. And then I was able to go back to school, I was trained in complex engineering systems
at MIT. And that was really an inflection point. And just, I had a new vocabulary and how to think
about systems and integration, context, complexity. And so that was a real changing point for me to be
able to start attacking this problem of how we think more holistically and manage and operate
complex systems. Yeah, it's kind of amazing. You come into a new space and you have a new idea and
you solve a problem differently. And this all seems very positive. It's what people want, right? It's
what we're looking for. But that sort of sets into motion lots of different domino trains, right? And
you can't really always see how it's going to change things. So this is really a fascinating
thing. And I do think that, and we're going to get to it, that category theory can help us start to get
a bit of a grasp on it. I guess first, I'm trying to set up some problems because that's a problem in
engineering and management and business. But I think we see it all in our daily lives too. When you have
certain conversations and you're trying to share certain things with certain people,
and maybe you say something that sets a train of thought or an action pattern in motion that you
really didn't expect that has either better consequences or worse consequences. So I think
there's a way in which we can all really understand what you just expressed. But when this happened,
you weren't thinking about category theory, right? No.
This example. Okay. So I wondered, did it stick with you? I mean, I obviously did because you're
telling it now, but it seems like that bothered you a lot that you had initiated an action that
then had these consequences that were difficult for people, even though you'd come at it with the
right intention. Is that part of the motivation that eventually went into you being so interested
in category theory? And you can also feel free to go back to your childhood. Is there a way that these,
did you have something like that in childhood too, maybe that stuck with you?
Yeah, that's a great intersection because it did stick with me and it always troubled me,
but I didn't know how to do, do anything about it. And so I, you know, I took a year off to go back
to school. My, my company sponsored me to go get this degree in complex engineering systems at MIT.
So I was equipped with state-of-the-art tools and methods for trying to tackle this problem,
right? So I came back to the business. I tried to apply every single tool of systems engineering
that I knew and that I had available. And, and also around this time that my, my colleague and
partner Esteban Montero, who has, I'm sure we'll get into, has been my key friend and colleague on
this journey since, since that time, because he did the same program many years prior. So I had this
experience where I tried to attack the problem with this new skillset around systems and complexity,
but nothing seemed to work, nothing actually scaled. And that was a hard, that was kind of a
reckoning in my own personal reflection because, and this is where Esteban helped me, kind of held up a
mirror to me. And because, you know, I had this great experience at MIT. It's, it was just
transformational seeing new technology, this melting pot of all these different ideas and
disciplines. But then you come back to the business and the corporate sort of culture and I, the old
pattern starts to creep in and the short-term thinking. But if you really stay true to sort of
the question of how do we think differently about this, you realize that none of the available tools
actually scale or work in the way that we need to, to handle the class of, of challenges that are like
volatile, uncertain, complex, ambiguous, like there is no system modeling tool out there or framework
that actually tackles this. And that's really where, at the time Esteban was working with category
theory on an effort to sort of try and represent different domains in this interdisciplinary project.
And that's when I first found out about it and the kinship between what I had just learned from
systems engineering, that it's all about the relationships and the connections between the
components and like emergence. That's the kind of the goal is to understand those emergent effects
and unintended effects of systems that we create and intervene. And here category theory was saying
the exact same thing, but a different language, but the same, I could see the relationship. And so
I sort of, that realization that nothing is available and here's this new kind of math and
science at our disposal. That was the intersection that led me to really even try to learn category
theory and understand what it could do for engineering as a discipline.
So when you say solve this or the problem, is it what I'm trying to, is what, is it what I was
trying to express of just feeling kind of like things are a little bit out of control or there's too
much possibility and knowledge that you can't, you can't anticipate. I mean, if you try to think about
what was bothering you and when you heard about category, what it lit up in a way, what's the nugget there?
I think it's, it's all about the challenge of coordination and mobilizing collective action.
And in a way that's because today, every time we try to do that, every time we try to integrate
these different knowledge bases or databases or processes, it's always through a paradigm of,
I would say centrality. Like there's always a central governing body or standard of how to call
things. And, and the idea is that in business today is if only we could all align and agree by
consensus on, on what to call things, then we can finally figure out how to coordinate our work
efficiently. And so again, that works for certain well understood and predictable systems. But when
there's, when you embrace the sort of ever-changing nature of contemporary systems that the need for
adaptation and you realize that, that, that paradigm doesn't work. And so I was hungry for a way to put
all these pieces together of knowledge, of data, of processes without that parent, like in a different
way. And that's, I think what category theory does, it sort of serves as a connective tissue to be able
to, to relate these domains, to preserve meaning as, as everyone's trying to, to put their work together
and, and really understand what work are you actually doing when you integrate a system or a database or,
or that knowledge that you're describing. So I think that's when I say the problem or the challenge
is really about coordination at all scales, not just at the level of a, an individual, of a team,
you know, at the scale of a, of an industry, right? Like we need to, we're trying to steer collective
action to be more, you know, healthy and harmonious and, and beneficial to the planet and society. And
we can continue to struggle to sort of, to do that, even though we all understand that we need, we need
to change, you know? So what are the structures that can we create more awareness around, you know, those
reasons? Yeah. In a way that's what a lot of the things that we've built, uh, are trying to do is
get some order and find ways to translate different worlds. I mean, we, we could talk about this in
language or we could talk about this in humanities, but let's think about even math. I mean, math in a
way is, is, is it trying to kind of do that already in, in a sense? Um, because what I want to kind of
get at is why category theory is doing something different. Um, there's so many different ways that
we've tried to approach different problems and to integrate and to connect, but I feel like what
you wanted and what category theory is doing is actually even beyond just labeling and, um,
coordination is a good word, but yeah. So just to go back, had you studied math and engineering and all
of this when you were younger? What was interest? What got you into that? Let's go back to your
childhood first a little bit too, because I don't know much about you as a kid. I think of you as an
engineer, a mathematician, thinking of all these, you know, all these particular ways, but what were
you like when you were a kid? Were you also trying to figure out the world and connect things, integrate?
Yeah. I love what you said. Um, I think that it really started this, this paradigm of we have today of
like label wanting to label everything and think in a very binary dualistic way is so embedded in
the way we think and relate to one another. And so as a child, that was something I grappled with
just on a personal level, because I, I was raised by a single mother and I, I didn't know my biological
father until I was like 11 or 12 years old. And so I had, I had this sort of question that would
lingered in my mind of like, who do I label father and my family tree? I was always terrified of the
genealogy project in school. Cause I don't know, you know, was it my grandfather who was like a
predominant male influence, you know, fatherly figure in my life? Was it my eventual adopted
father? Was it, you know, like I, so I struggle with the concept of a label. Why do I have to ascribe
a label to this relationship? Yeah. And so I always struggle with labels, right. As a, as a child.
And then the shift is in categorical thinking category theory, isn't about labels. Like,
like set theory is about, you know, is it in the set or is it not that set theory is sort of the,
the traditional foundation of math for the last hundred, 150 years where we put things that we
assign things membership, right. Based on, on a label and category theory is the opposite. It's like,
describe the role that the thing plays in, in my life. Like what's the role that I don't care what to call
this person. I want to understand what's the relationship they have to me. And can I define
things based on the relationship to other things? That's called the category theory,
they call it the Yoneta perspective, because one of the most powerful results in category theory was
this Yoneta lemma, which says you can define an object basically by its relationship to other things,
rather than trying to define an object by its intrinsic characteristics or its membership to a
group. Is it in, or is it out? Define it by its, how it relates to everything else. And that,
that's the sort of like philosophical shift that really grabbed me.
Let's sit with this a bit. Cause this is powerful. I think that as kids, we do learn that,
right. It is something that we learn. It's that we learn, we should categorize and label things.
There's all these kinds of ways in which society is structured that does label and where you feel
like you need to be a member. I think it's part of what motivates a lot of our adult behavior too,
is that initial feeling as kids, like, okay, we have to fit, we have to be members,
we have to be labeled. And at the same time, all of us kind of know that no one label fits to anything,
even in family relationships. So yeah, I guess I want to kind of dig into that just a little bit
more because I think it's a place people can connect is, do you remember having the sense that things
didn't fit in to labels easily? Or was it more a personal sense of you feeling like maybe it did for
everyone else, but not for you? Yeah. I mean, this, this was something I maybe didn't articulate
it this way as a kid, you know, vocabulary, but I sort of internalize it in different ways.
And this is, you know, this is what kind of what category theory has meant to my life basically is
this sort of, you know, sometimes you have this sort of, I mean, that was a traumatic experience.
I would, I would dare to say as a, as a child. And, and you tried, as you grow older, you try to
reason about everything intellectually. And it's like, I can just, if I can think through my, this
using my brain and my mind and my intellect, I'll kind of relate to the suffering, I can deal with it.
But I think what that shift in perspective, that category theory offered me was like,
the capacity to just let go of the words of the labels. Sometimes there are no words to articulate and
relate to that trauma or that suffering or that experience. And, and that's what category theory
was inviting me to do, because it is, it's like the most abstract branch of mathematics. It doesn't
actually care about the content or the label. It's all about the structure and how you encode meaning
in that structure. And so here's this new language that sort of give me that spirit of
non-conceptual, like embracing the non-conceptual and thinking at not even thinking, but like just,
you know, something that words can't describe, you can't label these, this graph, you know,
categories are represented as graphs often. But, so yeah, it really spoke to me in that sense,
how I related to the world and, and just let go of trying to find this, like this ground to stand
on through, through those challenging experiences. It's an interesting kind of intersection though,
because when I think of you and when I was reading this part of the book, a boy who doesn't have a
father already, you know, there and your grandfather sort of took on that role. And you had a cousin who
made it clear that you weren't actually part of that group, that immediate group, like her father,
it wasn't a cousin, it was your aunt who was really young. That's right. Yeah. So, and she made it very
clear that like, you're not part of this group. You're not the, he's not your father. You're not that,
you know, that's not your label, but he's your grandfather. You're like, it's almost like pushing you,
just as kids do. I don't, so when I think of this boy in this situation, I imagine you have these
kind of conflicting things of, first of all, you start to realize you're the man in your little
group with your mom. That's a kind of like, almost like you need to find some way to control the
situation or something. Also just that that was probably really traumatic and difficult and you need
to find some way to get some grasp or control. Control comes in, you know, like it feels very
precarious. So I can imagine you trying to find some control and that makes me understand why you
might go towards engineering and maths, you know, because that's a way to control the world and
understand the world and look, look into things and understand how they work. So I'm just putting
that out there, but how did the engineering part come into being? Yeah, well, you know, I came back
from my training at MIT, we were learning about complex systems and was trying to apply and well,
I remember Esteban was using category theory and a knowledge graph technology to try and develop a
new technology. And it was a real testament to his leadership there to be able to even bring that into
a corporate setting in the first place, because it is so amazing. Let's just say, Esteban,
who co-authored a book with you, A Categorical Defense of the Future, is quite a powerful force
in the world. And he's been on the show before, but yeah, just go ahead and say that.
Yeah, no, thank you. I mean, meeting him was an experience and I can, we can talk about that as
well because I think he relates a lot of this. But, you know, so he introduced me into category theory
and then from an engineering perspective and no one else really understood what it was doing,
like what it could do, what it was, but they trusted Esteban because he's Esteban. And I was
intrigued. I was, again, for all these sort of latent sort of things inside of me had sort of,
okay, I'm intrigued. I want to try and understand this. And I struggled for many months on my own,
trying to self-study. I was watching videos of David Spivak, you know, lecture on category theory.
Was he actually at MIT with you guys? Or was that just, you met him later?
I met him later. Yeah. I think, I think it was, I had come to MIT a little after he had left,
I think. So we missed crossing paths in that sense, but afterward connected. And I was watching videos
of Eugenia Chang, who has really popularized category theory in a more broad sense, which is just beautiful.
Her exposition is fantastic. So I was building this intuition, um, without knowing how to apply
it yet to engineering. And so it wasn't until I, um, S Warren, Sub Sub Moranian, uh, Professor Sub,
Carnegie Mellon. He's a, he's a professor at Carnegie Mellon and Spencer Briner, a mathematician at NIST,
the National Institute of Standards and Technology, that I had a shepherd, kind of someone with, who knew,
knew this domain that could sort of help guide me through it and, and, and teach me and really
describe how this might work in industry and in engineering. So I really needed that guide to,
to take the next step forward. Otherwise I was, I was struggling. So you've had some amazing guides
in your life and I want to get to them, but I was really like, I w I really wonder as a child,
though, did you care about taking things apart and trying to put them back together? And like,
before you met Esteban before just at the very start of it into your schooling, was that just by
chance that you ended up in that already in that group of people that then sort of have definitely
changed your life, but yeah. Can you kind of connect those parts a little bit? Yeah. Um, yeah, I, I just,
I was just interested in, in the whole notion of engineering and because I love that, as you were
saying, I was very driven by control and like, I want things to work a certain way. I love structure.
I'm very disciplined. And so even as a kid, were you taking your bike apart and stuff or like,
what, how did it manifest? I don't know. Um, yeah, I don't, I, I never really, yeah, I guess
it was all sort of in my head. I love, I love playing chess. I love video game video games. I loved,
um, so, so yeah, chess is like very formal. There's rules, you know, how, you know, what you're
allowed to do, what you're not allowed to do. It's sort of, um, I love competition. I just,
I played a lot of sports and, um, but you know, I think, I think this is important point,
right? Like I sort of had this, this challenging experience as a, as a kid and I sort of internalized
it, this, this, I internalized it as perfectionism, right. And like need for control. And that's what
I'm trying to get a view of where did you feel safe and what kind of activities made you feel safe?
You know, so, but it's, but the switch, right? Like how, how'd you go from that, that sort of
utilitarian view of the world to category theory, like completely open. Yeah. Well, I think that,
you know, I, I was sort of born into this, like feeling of inadequacy my whole life, because I'm
wondering like, is there a person out there that doesn't want me, doesn't love me. And so I was always
seeking that sort of validation and, and through a perfectionism. And so I, I wanted to be the best at
whatever I did, whether it was wrestling or baseball or school or, but then in my late
teens and early twenties, I sort of had these six series of experiences that just bring you to your
knees basically. Like, and you have no choice, but to sort of confront that, that place, right. Of,
of I would, you know, I wouldn't call it failure now, but like, yeah, I mean, just, just suffering and
challenges and whether it's relationships or you didn't achieve a goal and you just reach these,
these places where you have to sort of radically accept that the control is an illusion basically,
and to let go of the ground that you think you're standing on. And, and, and I appreciate that there
is no ground to begin with. And that, so I had that experience that propelled me in.
Can you tell me about one of them or, I mean, that's a, cause it's, I was thinking of that when
I was reading the book that there's a way in which, um, even trying to learn about it in the sense,
like these things aren't separate. There's a kind of discomfort and a challenge about trying
to get to the point where category theory becomes abstraction in a way that's empowering. So I was
wondering, like, it's almost as if experiencing something like what feels like defeat in the
moment before you have these tools to understand it or failure or what, or loss is a kind of portal
into this space in a way. I don't know. So maybe could you think of one that doesn't have to be
specific, but sure. I mean, I, I had a really, I mean, I was a devoted wrestler my whole high school
career. And so many years building up to, to win the state championship, right? There's a goal.
And I had like the most, just the closest match in the state championship mat and final in my junior
year. And it was just heartbreaking. Right. Cause you, you literally spent years training and
preparing for this moment. It feels like your whole life at that time too. I mean,
yeah. So that, that was one. And then there's other things we're losing relationships and
just, just other social things. And, um,
even more, I think it all came together with sort of my confrontation with religion. Like I was raised
Catholic, pretty devout Catholic family. And I was sort of the first to sort of
break away from that. And that, that was a heavy moment for me. Right. Because your
disappointment from my family and how do I, that was a true turning point for me because I had
upended my whole framework on how I organized my life. Right. And so, oh yeah, that was a moment where
I broke open, as you say. And, um, and I started to, I didn't, I didn't have anywhere to turn to sort of
that, find that comfort. And so I, I think it materialized as like, um, I turned to like,
I didn't, I mean, I meditate now and I'm very Zen now, but I, I didn't know about it until later,
much later in my life. I, I, I use weightlifting and like the gym as that sort of, um, place where
you start building the capacity to see through your own delusions in a way, like you go to the gym and
there's no flattering. Like there's no, you can't, the barbell doesn't lie, you know? So it's, it
became this daily practice for me of, um, kind of self disenchantment. Like, like it's not about
attaining something. It's about just measuring your, your own sincerity of how you express yourself
and, um, you do it for yourself. And, and that was sort of the, my meditative practice in the end of
my twenties, um, that I think helped me sort of be able to lift the veil of those self-defense
mechanisms that would prevent someone from leaning into category theory. That's kind of the point,
right. The, the leap I'm trying to make is that to really embrace the philosophy and spirit that
that category theory provided me, I had to be able to see through my own self-defense mechanisms. Right.
And yeah, isn't that interesting? And it's also like what you described as a kind of discipline
and ordering and rules, which I feel like that's also very important in the category theory and to you
in it. So this is really interesting to me, this, it's not a dichotomy, but this,
that discipline brings a kind of ability to open and feel more freedom. Um, even the weightlifting,
right? You're it's, it's like discipline and it's daily, but you can have some control at the same
time and you can develop a different way of being in the world. Um, I don't see that as completely
different from what something like category theory can, can do, but yeah, I think, I mean, a lot of,
a lot of people, it's a mode of self-improvement, which is fine. Like, but for me, it became a way
to study the self. So that way I could sort of forget myself and see how I'm related to everything
else in that sort of categorical way. It, it, and that's what category theory gives you discipline
and formality and rules, but it's at like a higher level of abstraction. It's more about
studying the connections and how we relate to one another. So I needed that sort of practice
to, to be able to be open. I think, I think that mentality prepared me for category theory in a way
that, um, you know, it, otherwise I, I wouldn't been able to see, you know, have that meta awareness,
meta kind of awareness of, um, yeah, how, what, what it can do for me in the terms of engineering or life
or, you know, so on. That's something too, that helps when we have these hard situations,
like the one with your being, you know, not having your father around, um, and being seen differently,
because, you know, the majority of people sort of fit into these little labels. And when you don't,
you do start to realize, oh, there's actually a lot of different perspectives and
ways from which the world can be viewed. It gives you a kind of, it's not a secret knowledge, but I mean,
there's a kind of power power. And once you can sit with that space realizing, oh, you know,
it's not how everyone thinks it is actually. Um, but I want to like, we'll come back to the personal
stuff, but I want to really think because category theory is very practical and rule-based and, um,
there's, it's very disciplined. So let's try to link like, okay, so you, you had this childhood with
a lot of really rich, um, difficult, beautiful experiences. And then you did end up going to
college. You did excel. I mean, you have excelled quite a lot in your life and a lot of things.
Um, and you ended up in this environment in MIT where you had these very successful, um,
fascinating people like Esteban sort of obviously noticing you because he, he would say the same about
you that, you know, he saw something in you. So, um, let's go to that moment. Had you studied a lot
of maths before then? Was it wasn't, was it a totally new to start thinking about math or was
that something you were familiar with? Like other things, like other kinds of math and programming?
Yeah, this was, yeah, this was a part of the journey, I think. And I had the very traditional
engineering curriculum in school, right? So I, you know, calculus and algebra and so on. So
nothing prepared me in my education for how to think in this sort of new abstract way. Not that
it's fun. Can you help me understand what those were like for someone who's never had that kind
of stuff? Like, what is that training like? Like, what did, what were you, what was that? I had to,
I had to basically forget a lot of what I had learned, like the ways I was taught to think of
math as a very utilitarian. There is an exact answer to an equation. There is one objective
truth to a math problem like that. So all these other maths and all these other ways you'd been
learning and engineering, all of them were, were built on that, that idea that there's one answer,
there is a center. Right. Exactly. Okay. Yeah. I mean, and, and because that's it from the lens of
engineering, it's problem solving. We have a problem to solve it. We're very practical, utilitarian.
We don't have time to just sort of represent all these diverse views. Let's just focus on
this one problem. We got the business to run. So I had to sort of unwind that conditioning I had
over the years. And I mean, I went, I remember my first conversation with Spencer Briner. Like,
he's like, do you know what a monoid is? Do you know what a group is? Do you know what, like,
he's listing all these algebraic firms that I had no clue. And at that moment you could have,
I could have ran away. It ran in the other direction because it's like,
most people probably would have, but yeah, I was intrigued and, and I just had to keep
going back. Like I had to buy books on like basic algebra. Like, what does it mean to think
algebraically? What is algebra? The study of equations. Okay. I remember equations. I appreciate
three X minus 11 equals 10. And there's a, there's a procedure to solve for that X and that, you know,
that, okay. So I had some intuition of algebra and basically what category theory is,
is like vast generalization of that. We've kind of forgotten like eighth grade algebra.
That was like the ending point. And then we did all this like problem solving utilitarian type of
math. Like, but if you stay with that algebraic idea and you extend it, not just to symbols X's
and Y's, but to structures like patterns and connections and networks of things that are
connected, what's the algebra of how to relate different networks together. And that that's sort of
the idea. The equation isn't a symbol as an X or Y it's the abstraction is like comparing paths
in a network and, and comparing whether or not they may not have the same labels, but they have
the same structure. So you, you're given this more nuanced way to compare things and, and at the
structure, the level of structure, that's the abstraction. That's really powerful and category.
So this is kind of interesting hard for me, for me a bit, because I don't know math so much,
but it sounds like, I mean, I would have thought algebra is very different from category theory,
because I think maybe the way I was taught that it's very linear and there's only one answer.
But actually, as you were saying that I was realizing there's always many, many ways that
you can solve any problem actually. So if you take it in that big scope, right, you, you do actually,
it already is many different paths, but is what happens that in math, it feels like what category
theory would open, which is that there's many completely different paths to a similar goal.
In the same way we were talking about, there's many different perspectives as a kid. There's no
one being a kid with two labels of mom and dad. So I feel like math would kind of, most, most maths would
go that, that route of linear and everything has a membership in a, in a place, but you're saying
algebra doesn't do that. Right. Am I understanding that? Right. Okay. Yeah, no, I think category
theory is like the algebra of algebras in a way it's, it's, it'll, it gives you rules for like
relating different algebras and relating different domains in math. So it, it sort of sits at like a
higher level than like set theory or topology or group theory, whatever you, whatever domain you want
to look at. Because those things are putting things into labels, right? So something like set theory,
there's members and there's definite groups. Is that right? And that's just the way it is or?
Those fields of math crystallized to sort of form in a certain context to sort of reason about
specific problems, like mathematically with logic and rules. And so they were kind of each specialized
to sort of like group theories about the study of symmetry and set theories, the study of membership.
And, and category theory sort of like helps you see that, hey, there's a pattern in group theory
that relates to topology somehow. And if I borrow this idea from group theory, I can compare things
in a topological way that I before would have been too, too hard to sort of prove in a mathematical
sense. And so, yeah, it's, it's sort of category theories, just a generalization of that x equals x squared
equals y kind of training we all had to, to apply a similar procedure and, and, and rules around
networks, systems of relationships that don't have any inherent meaning. You're just thinking
about the connections themselves and, and how they relate.
So this is great too, because, okay, so I, I feel like if I'm generalizing a lot, but the kind of
maths of life is more, has been more like linear, and there's your, your part of them of groups, and
that's just how it is. And you have to find a place to fit. And category theory is, is actually like
lifting the view of that and saying, well, you're actually members of many different groups at once,
depending on where you're going to look, and we can see how they're all connected and how they all
influence each other, which can feel like a computational explosion, right, which is probably
why we had all those very structured, like, determined kind of places. But what's confusing is
when you say category, to me, that sounds like you're putting things in boxes, there's members.
Yeah, there's a, there's a, you said relational just now. So that's different, isn't it? But it is,
like, can you help me understand that or explain?
Yeah, I think it is confusing, the name category theory, just given our, the attachment of baggage
to that word. I think a better term, and this is coming from Spencer and others who I've worked with,
like, would have been relationship theory or structure theory, because it's really the study
of structures that compose and, and, you know, how can I put two networks together to form a whole?
And again, maybe you can see the relationship to systems and complexity, trying to understand how I
put these parts together to form a whole. And so, you know, category theory gives you general
organizing principles on how to do that. And what it's great about is specifying what context you're in,
because what is context, right? Context is how things are related to one another.
That's how I would define context and with context comes meaning. And so it gives us like,
okay, I'm in this category, which is like this particular context. I know how things work,
I know the logic, the rules, and then, but the beautiful part is that I can translate to another
context and sort of map between them in a way that preserves structure and meaning. And so that's,
that's real, the real beauty of it is, it's, it's, I would say, context rich,
and content poor. Whereas almost all of our other, every information management system in the world,
like our traditional ways of thinking are content rich, context poor. And that's sort of the idea is
that in business, I'm back to business for a moment, like in engineering, we're really good at solving
problems, but we solve those problems as point solutions. Like we come up with this great software
or system or solution that works in a very specific context, context, but it's brittle and it can't
adapt and compose with other things. And what category theory gives you is like a general,
like the general view, like general solution that can specify the various contexts. So it sort of
is adaptive in that way and, and facilitates flexibility of networks.
So we can think of categories as relations.
It's like a network of relationships, a network of like dots and arrows. That's pretty much it.
So why, why is, why is that? I feel like thinking like that or understanding
relations and that it's not, there's not, not this linearity. It's more almost like fractal or
there's networks of networks of networks. It's very meta. There's models of models of models and
structure. Like that's become very essential in a way lately that we try to begin to learn how to
think and understand that. Um, am I wrong about that? I mean, why is it that these other ways kind
of worked pretty well, but now seem less possible? Like they don't work as well now. Is it because
there's so much more connection and knowledge or, I mean, how do you, what do you, how do you think?
Yeah. Yeah. I think, I think we're in a historic moment in terms of the, the explosion of complexity
and connect connections that have formed in the last couple of decades, really. Right. With the,
the digital revolution and the internet and the technology that we have available, it happens so
fast, right? Like other sort of foundational scientific philosophical paradigms took centuries
to sort of develop. And here we are within a few decades, like this explosion where anomalies are
becoming the norm. There's more uncertainty and volatility than ever. And we're just not equipped
to deal with complexity. And I think the common response to that is in business, at least is,
well, complexity is a problem. If we just simplify, well, you know, we can figure it out. We can,
but I think the reality is that it's not optional, like complexities here. Let's start from a standpoint
of confronting it and then recognize that you need more complex tools to deal with real complexity.
It's not the other way around. You know what I mean? So I think that that's a hard sell in our
current business paradigm, but that's something that I've been trying to drive and confront in my
own personal life and professional experience. It seems something we all have to confront now,
and we're trying to figure out ways to do it. Even if on a personal level, when you,
I know you have kids and I don't know if they've gone into the social media, they're too young to be in
your social media, but you'll probably have to think about it. But once you, so that what we
were talking about of comparing yourself or not fitting in or being told you don't fit in as a
kid or all that stuff that we all know in different ways and to different degrees does seem like it's,
that has exploded in a way where there's so many options of who you could be or what group you should
be in. And I feel like it can be overwhelming and maybe we need new tools to deal with it.
The way I think about this as an example is the sort of rise of social media and the apps we have
available today. Like I can go through a rabbit hole on the internet to find this little niche
of like intersecting interests for me that it becomes so specific and customized to me
that I don't actually, because we're so we don't have a way to relate that, you know, decompose view
of my interest to, even though there's like, I like a certain type of music. Well, maybe someone
likes the symphony and on the surface, my, my, if I'm like, I like rock and roll and like heavy metal.
So like people would look at the surface and be like, if you look at this, this is the label,
like, okay, we don't have anything related here, but actually at the structural level,
what is the role that that music plays in my life? It evokes a mood. It evokes a feeling. I,
you know, in both, both of those sub, sub, sub, sub, sub groups share some abstract
form. And, and we don't have a way to even describe that today. And so what happens is I feel like we
just keep getting isolated, isolated, isolated in our own little island with no way to relate to one
another. So, so it's sort of, I think is driving more polarization, isolation. Now I'm not saying the
opposite. I'm not saying we need to go back to like, everyone sits around a living room and
listens to the same radio station or TV channel. That's like, again, that's kind of like centrality.
Yeah. And as you said, we can't really go back there. It's not a,
we can't go back anyway, but, but that paradigm still, that's what happens is people in business
see this sort of explosion of complexity at the ground level. And their, their response is like,
oh, well, let's just standardize. Let's all do the same thing. Why can't, why do we have to
all be different? And so I think there's a middle path. Like, how can we embrace that uniqueness
where everyone has their unique thing? Um, but we find ways to relate and compose our perspective
so that we, we can enhance that sense of belonging and feeling our relationship right to each other
and to, to, to our context. Yeah. It feels like it's almost like a transitional moment of trying to,
you do say this in the book, you and Esteban about it's, it's a new way of thinking in a way,
category theory, um, or does it, does it kind of help you think in a different way? And once you
can start to kind of do that the same way, maybe you have to learn how to do the weight training or
the wrestling or meditation or these, these disciplines, right? There's rules, there's way to
do it, but then it opens up a different way to be in the world. Is that, would you say that is true?
No, absolutely. I think that it, and we've done some actual case studies with, with some of the,
um, you know, leading experts in the field in this, in an industry application, right? Because
we've been, we've been trying to leave the forefront of industry use of category theory. And, um, in one
of the case studies we did, we were able to show how to integrate two different, very different
perspectives, um, in a way that isn't flattened, you know, semantically, like we tend to tend to see
today. And, and what that means is that things can be true in one context and not true in another
context. And that sort of, that confrontation with the paradox, right? Like we have to lean
into those paradoxes and see beyond the dichotomies, as you say. So category theory gives us a, I think,
a language and a way to, to actually do that in a way that's more formal and, and can be used in a
technology, right? To be able to facilitate that philosophical shift as well. But yeah, it's kind of
chicken and the egg. Do you try to get people to sort of see the philosophy of it? And, because the math is
maybe terrifying because it's so familiar, like the rigor of it, but, or do you try to show an
examples of how it works in practice? And then hopefully they, they see the foundation that it
can create. That's something we've been trying to work through. So I want to think about how this
can actually help business. There's different ways we could go into that, but in having talked to you
before and having read the book and stuff, one, one, just let me generalize in a big way. But if we
think of a company and different ways that a few different people could try to solve a different
problem, when you have this explosion of, or things have gotten a little out of hand, everyone's working
on a problem in a different way from a different angle. We could go back to your example of when you
had this great idea and then it had some, uh, consequences at, at a different place, uh, that
you didn't intend. Like there's a way in which category theory could have helped you by, how would
it have helped you? Would you be, have been able to visualize, uh, different possible trajectories
from that place you were in? Right. Yeah. You know, let me, yeah. So let me describe how we've been
thinking about this. So, um, in the, I'll describe it in the abstract first. So category theory is all about,
as we said, the study of relationships. So, and one of the key ideas is this notion of composition.
We use that term a lot. And what we mean by composition is in a very basic, the most basic
example, if I've got this object A and I know A is related to B and I know B is related to C,
I can compose those two relationships through this new arrow called A to C. Like that's the, I know,
if I, if I know A is related to B and B is related to C, I can infer and deduct mathematically that A is
related to C. Category theory gives you the sort of rule system and the algebra to, to care, you know,
to infer that, that composed arrow, because why is that important? Because that composed arrow often
isn't represented in the decisions that we make in the business models that we create in our databases.
We have all these sort of, that's what I said earlier about my example, someone like six degrees,
six arrows over from me felt the effect and had to absorb my, my decision. If I could have had a
technology that alerted me before I made the decision to say, Hey, when you do this change,
you're going to impact this other team, this other person without the composition, without the, the
formality that category theory offers for that network of relationships, we don't have a, there
is no programming language today or, or system that would have given me that awareness, right? So that's
why we think category theory is so powerful is the capacity to understand how your local decisions
affect the whole and whether managing information or processes or people, or if that's the beauty
of the abstraction, it's, it's generalizable to all aspects. And that's why I think it's revolutionary.
Yeah. It's possible. It's just how to, how to, when you were talking, I was thinking about
simulation, but it's more than a simulation, right? You're not cause simulations as I know them. And in
my field, usually it's still feeling very linear and maybe there's the kind of graph, but there's not the
graph of the graph, so to speak, or the way, the, a way of getting an idea of that there, because it
does feel so overwhelming that there could be this computational explosion of so many possibilities and
you can't explore all of them, but actually this does give you a way in a sense to do that. And the
term I was thinking of was like contradicted meaning, I think where, so if you had been able to model that
situation you were in from not just your position, but from let's say the position of the people who were
eventually affected by it, which was really coming from a very different trajectory, you could have
seen earlier on where those two things would have contradicted one another and caused, caused the
trouble. Right. So it gives you a kind of visualization of not a linear thing, but more of a ongoing
network of networks. That's, what's hard to get our head around, but you don't have to.
No, exactly.
Yeah, but it just would have showed that, right? Is that?
Yeah, exactly. If we were all sort of representing our knowledge in, in this sort of categorical way,
then it, by definition, like I would have been able to see the effects that propagated throughout
the network as I I'm doing my job and trying to adapt. Um, we call that, uh, we call it real-time
contradiction detection because there is a, there are very few commercial applications of category theory
and software today. And one of them is called CQL, which came from Spivak at MIT and Wisniewski
from MIT as well, who's been progressing it. They basically allow you to detect those,
those, um, contradictions on the, on the graph in real time, basically. So if I make a contradiction,
if I change my model in a way that creates a contradiction in the path of arrows, then, um,
then it tells me, and I, you know, rather otherwise today I have to have tribal knowledge. I have to know the
person. I have to pick up the phone and call them. We have to get in the meeting room. Imagine how
there's not a meeting room big enough to sort of hold all the people who actually are impacted by
our decisions. And so that's sort of where we were getting at was, um, if we could just even add a
little bit of formality to the way we represent knowledge and information and data, we can, we can
have a lot of, of advantages in terms of performance and business. Because those trajectories already
exist, your colleagues could already had their, their situation. It's just, those things couldn't
be kind of held in the same, in the same space. Um, it makes me think of something like a digital twin
though, that we're trying to do now where we're, we're trying to kind of, they're called digital twins.
Um, like for example, we want to simulate the planet and possible trajectories for that planet,
right? So how is what's being done now, um, different from what could be done if, if category
theory was able to be formalized in, in the way that you're talking about? Because what it makes
me think of is we want, I want to have, and you do talk about this in the book, there's, there could
be some way in which all of those different positions are represented dynamically. The problem
is they're often statically represented, but every change changes something else. And that,
I think category theory maybe could address. Yeah. Well, I mean, we, you can save the digital
twin, the deep dive on that with Esteban next time, but, um, okay, I think first of all, the,
the term twin is a bit problematic because it implies we'll actually be able to recreate an exact
replica of this beautiful, unique reality in a machine, in a computer. So I think first of all,
that the definition is a bit problematic, but to answer your question more directly,
it's really a model. You want the sort of, you know, network of models that describe a system.
And, and, you know, what's the model for safety? What's the model for production? What's the model
for, you know, X, Y, Z. And today we, we don't have a way to sort of connect those models. Category
theory is sort of one of the ways that we could do it to be able to say, because you have to think very
clearly, like that's what abstraction is doing. It's like, forget all the other context. That's
doesn't matter to this particular question I'm trying to answer. And let's think, let's reason
about that it abstractly. And so if you wanted to create a model of a system, um, yeah, you need
to look at different, different perspectives. And so category theory allows you to be able to say,
okay, how does the model of safety relate to the model of production or to the model of
lower carbon or, you know, whatever. So I think today we don't have that. And if you actually,
I mean, I work on the ground and digital twin efforts and the challenge is still data integration.
How do you compose these different perspectives? Because you could look at even a simple piece
of equipment, like a pump in a facility and well, the production person has a perspective. So they
have their own schema. The maintenance person has a perspective, the production person, the planning
person, like there's like all these different perspectives. We don't know how to, to integrate
them even with data bases, basically you're right. And so that's where category theory, one of the
first applied use cases is around categorical databases, um, representing acknowledge that's,
that was kind of the breakthrough at MIT with SPVAC and with Nesky was realizing that all the data
schemas and queries and databases that we deal with can be formalized categorically like that, that,
that jump unlocks a lot of potential. So maybe this can help me understand. Cause it's,
you say often in the book that compositionality, compositionality is more than, uh, just integration
or connection. Cause I think what you just described is actually really important and, um,
nuanced because of course we know there are all of these parts that they're, let's just think of
the planet, right? Like trying to save the planet from ourselves or whatever might come, let's say
aliens come, whatever it is, you know? Um, if you try to model that, we of course know there's all these
different factors, but we tend to still model it as one, one thing. And we just say these are
connected and these are integrated. So how is like compositionality, how is it more than,
how is it more than just integration? Yeah, that's a great, that's a great question. And
it is tricky because the word integration has so much historical meaning and the connotation,
right? So we, we do try to distance ourselves from it, but I think, um, as you say that today,
we sort of are very good at decomposing things. Cause we want to, that's kind of how we're trained
scientifically, like break things down into their composition parts. Decompose instead of compose.
Decompose. We're good at decomposition. We know how to, and that's kind of get, get this in the
labeling again, right? It's like take it apart. Yeah. Take it apart, study each part in isolation,
and then assume we can figure out how to, the aggregated behavior of the parts is what the whole is.
And so I think that's sort of the, and today, even with integration, it's like for one specific,
what's the, what's the purpose of this system? Like, like you said, we're trying to fend off some
specific instance, but, um, composition really gives you the rules for how, what's the recipe
for putting things together. What's it's in the, how not in the, what's right. Not in, you know,
and it's so, so composition in our mind gives you the, not just the sort of constituent parts,
but like the rules for how they come together and, and how they both preserve their uniqueness,
but also come together to form a whole where the sum is really the, the constituent parts glued
together, not sort of flattened. And in the way that we would do it today, because as we were saying
that the sort of paradigm of integration is always through like standardization and flattening of
those perspectives. And so there, there's a way I think now to both preserve uniqueness and, and also
show how it relates to the whole. And I think that's, that's the beauty of composition. I think
without that, you will never see those unintended consequences we're describing. So that's really
why we say composition can lead to a whole new theory of design, engineering design, so that we
can understand the implications of what we're doing in a way that we struggle with today, because our
intuition isn't enough, like with the complexity we face. And does that have to do with the center,
not just being one center, but the center kind of being everywhere? Is that freeing us to not have to
choose between it only being this way or the other way, but instead looking more at how all that
relationality is going to determine in that, only in that second, that problem's best next step or the
way to address it if you're in the company or something, but you did, that doesn't mean you're
going to use exactly that the next time. Yeah. I think that's that the, the adaptive capacity of,
of this sort of categorical approach is, is one of the key features. Because when you,
you know, when you acknowledge everything is connected to everything else, when, when context
changes in this sort of current traditional paradigm, you have to like restitch all the
wiring and connection. Like you have to go and check and make sure everything is still holds,
right. That has referential integrity. If the context changes and category theory helps because if
the context changes, you just, you can map that old context to the new context with like a very
standard operation and it's, it's known and you, you kind of get stuff for free.
That inference I was describing before, like we don't have to carry around all the arrows that we
can infer mathematically. Whereas today you have to carry all that baggage either in your model or
in your brain. And, and that, that's, that's where it becomes non-scalable because you, you know,
you can't possibly keep track of all the connections. So we need an accounting system, as
Spivak would say category theory is like an accounting system of, of meaning. What are we
tracking? And yeah, it helps us. You can kind of forget all the complexity once you sort of
package up an idea and kind of think at it at a higher level. That's, that's the beauty of
abstraction. Like even from, I think you mentioned programming earlier, like the trajectory of
programming is like more and more abstraction. So that way we can package ideas and move them
around and into units that are, we don't have to reason about sort of the lower level details. So
that's, that's kind of how it works. Is it different from seeing patterns?
I mean, is it because I could see that someone would just say, oh, you're just gonna, you're
just, it's helping you recognize more patterns or something, but it actually, there's two things that,
two words that come up a lot that I wanted to get into a little bit, like awareness and meaning,
you know, you're learning a sort of practice. You're becoming more aware in a sense that you're not
settling on one specific answer or one specific way you're learning. There's a kind of a fluidity
or flexibility or something that's coming out of this. Does that make sense?
Yeah, I think absolutely. That's why we, we love Esteban. I love kind of thinking about the world of
mycelium networks as a sort of an analogy here, right? Where you can take many paths at once and sort of
of where does the self begin and the whole you begin, you know, where does the self end and the
whole begin? Like it sort of question makes you question your, the role of the self and the whole
system. And that awareness you're describing, we, we kind of, we use the analogy of a mirror a lot,
almost in a way that it's this sort of technology that we're imagining. It's like holding up a mirror
so I can see how I relate to the whole and how does my action affect others? And that would change the
way I make my way through the world. Right? So today we, because of the sort of dualistic way we're
trained and thinking it's hard to see beyond ourselves. But I think this technology can create
a sort of collective awareness in a way that we don't have access to today.
How does that relate to awareness and meaning? I mean, we could even go back to something more
personal because we were talking about how right now we categorize everything and there's members and
something is right or wrong. And there's not a sense really of, there's becoming more so,
but something like family, right? I also grew up in a religious kind of atmosphere and I think
religion adds an even more, there's certain ways that things have to be done or it's wrong and
there's memberships and there's not the sense that's one way it's done. If you zoom out, you could
see how it's connected to this and that there's another way. And part of my, I don't know about for
you, but part of like growing up and learning how to deal with the world was actually learning that
there are so many other ways from which you can see things and you can accept who you are as you are.
You can find other groups where you do belong, this kind of thing. So I don't know, like how do you,
how would we relate it on that level? Yeah. As you said, I think there's a huge opportunity for
belonging and connection and we don't have even, like I was saying about the example of music. I like a
completely different genre, genre is a label, right? We're trying to, we're trying to capture
the essence of this rich musical, you know, domain into one word and it's just not possible. And yet
that's why we, that's how we label things as genres. So one genre of music may not have anything in
common on the surface with another genre, but yet there is a structural, there is some overlap. And
if we could see that overlap, it would feel like there's a belonging, even though superficially we can't
recognize it today. So I do think that can help us find meaning in the world today. And because
that's what I would say is awareness is the recognition that even that there is a connection
there. It's there, it's just tacit today. It's hidden. There's walls standing between us. And
I think a lot of that just is because we don't have the capacity to see beyond the dualism and all the
other influences that sort of drive us to think in labels. So I hope that this whole shift in philosophy
of seeing things based on how they relate to other things and seeing that there's a,
there is a new paradigm, a new science and philosophy about it. That's, that's growing
can help, can help people find meaning. Cause I think that's what it's all about.
I think this will probably end up changing the way business is done. That's one level. We haven't
talked about it a lot, but it's new, right? And it seems to be a little harder to get your head around.
And that, I know that's one reason maybe people in business might, it might take some time for
everyone to accept it. Cause it's really like changing, shifting gears in a sense. But do you
think there's also an element of it being scary in the sense that you have to realize there's not only
one path, there's always many right paths. Yeah. I think this has been my experience as well. And
I think trying to tie a lot of these threads together is that the way we, the way we operate today,
I think is a lot of times driven by fear and fear of the unknown fear of the complexity and yeah,
just recognizing there is no ground to stand on. So I think that it's going to be a tremendous
challenge to sort of, because this is why I'm so keen on like the analogy of the mirror and the
study in the self, because as an industry level, we have to sort of see through our own self-defense
mechanisms that, cause we put up labels to sort of deal with the fear. Right. And like illusion of
control again, uh, is it good or bad? Like just simplify it for me so I can feel better about
what's the right way to go. Yeah. So there's this like seduction of, um, of control and, and,
but I think that, so I think it is going to be challenging sort of for our conventional,
um, sort of paradigms and business. And, but, um, I think that's why Esteban and I are trying to
open a new path of discourse and a new sort of community that lives between research and business.
And so we have our non-profit organization, Holon Labs, and that's really where we think that
they're, it's too hard to replace the current foundation of business while they're so successful.
We'll put it that way. So we we've been in that arena for decades and seen the challenge
firsthand. And so I think we need to grow a new path and that's what we're trying to do.
The challenge is that the challenge is we have this analogy, Sub and I have this analogy. It's like
category theory is so unique in this way where you can resonate and come at it and feel it in many
different ways. And so we call it like, um, being key makers. Like there's this, there's this sort of
metaphor in India where Sub is from, where there's like a thousand doors and like it's a maze with many
paths and not all of them are real. And so like for each person we engage with, they have a different
door that they have to go through to sort of see what we see, whether it's the personal side or the
engineering side or the mathematical side, you know, it's, that's the fun and the challenge of
it because it's the intersection of so many different things. It's fun though, to be able
to flex the, the ideas and meet so many different communities. So.
I do wonder what motivates you to, I mean, do you seem to have a sense of responsibility
about it or something? I mean, it's almost like you've seen a better way. Esteban too. And, and you
really want to share it with people. Does that make sense to you?
Yeah. I think that once you see this as sort of the call of our generation, the call of our time,
I, I, there's no going back. And I just, I feel compelled every day to, to put every fiber in,
into this and try to develop a new scientific and philosophical paradigm for systems and integration.
Um, you know, I'm hesitant to say that I'm, I have a goal of making things better. I like to approach it,
um, by appreciating what we have and sort of just seeing things as they are and seeing the beauty
in what we have today. But, um, I do want to develop more harmony and more healthy systems and
more relationships. I think more relationships lead to belonging and meaning. And I think, um,
yeah, once I had kids and felt this like sense of responsibility for what future they're going to
inherit, it, um, it became, it became something I can't, can't put down now.
I think that's why I brought the awareness and meaning in because
there's so many levels to talk about this, the mathematical, the technical, the management,
and those are all very important, but there's a real personal way that it affects you. One, a person,
you start to become, of course, all those relationships are already there. And as we were
talking about, a lot of it is this vulnerability or fear, or just being overwhelmed by the world
that you can't see all those relationships or fill them or experience them fully because of
all of that. So once you have a better way of being aware of them, that the awareness itself
opens your experience. And I wonder, I mean, we could go back to when you met Esteban and all these
people that have been so important in your life, but also remembering you as a little kid, and now
you're a dad to two young kids and you're, you seem very much, your relationship is very important
in your family and your life, seeing this in your everyday life, uh, this awareness and meaning
increase due to this new way of thinking that's probably come in other ways too, but is really, uh,
visible in category theory. Yeah, absolutely. I love this question and I'm gonna eventually relate
it to meditation, but I'll, I'll kind of build up to that by saying, um, yeah, so, so meeting Esteban
was sort of transformational for me in and of itself, because, you know, as I said, even me,
I was sort of, you know, everyone, everything around me was sort of driven by goal-seeking behavior
and, and control and, you know, getting things done, accomplishing things, attainment, like
my whole life has been, well, the early 20, 30 years of it has been like, like that, but then
I met Esteban and he was like the complete opposite. I had never met a person like so developed,
honestly, like not just intellectually, but emotionally, spiritually, and someone who, who
could gone and excel at anything, but chose to go, not just stay in the trench of like this, this effort,
but like jump out of the trench and run towards the bunker kind of like on his own. It was just,
I was just. How did you witness that? How did you see that in him? It sounds like you saw it pretty
early. Do you remember seeing that first? Well, I was at MIT and they brought him in to speak to our
class because he had gone through the program. And so he was the only person in the company who had this,
this experience. And so like, Hey, come in and give these new scholars, some, some feedback on the
program, what to expect. And, um, yeah. And I just remember, um, we would, he, he and I met personally
later on and sort of, we both studied under Nancy Levison, who was like system safety expert at MIT.
And she has a completely, she's reinventing the world of system safety and, but her philosophy
kind of stuck with both of us. And we started finding these little philosophical overlaps and it
became this deep connection. But, um, yeah, I was a little skeptical at first, honestly,
the first time I met him because, um, he was touted as like the smartest guy in the company basically.
And so immediately I was like a little skeptical, but, um, I never saw him lift a finger in terms
of modeling something or computing, like, but yet his, he would drop these knowledge bombs like
in out of nowhere. And it's just like, I'd go and do the homework. That's where I kind of like
started to differentiate. I think myself a little bit was he would drop these kind of bombs on a
meeting in, in terms of just challenging the current paradigms. Right. And you're like, whoa,
who says this sort of thing? And is he right? Can he, can that be true? And we had these kind of
very rich sparring sessions. And then I, I just realized that, yeah, this guy's the real deal and
his, his range of, of, you know, knowledge and experience and his, and it's not just intellectual,
like what really, this is what I'm getting into meditation. It was really in his capacity to stay
open. Um, you know, I, I saw that I had the same, I had some, some, the whole, the whole,
those life experiences I was describing to you, I could sort of put together
and, and sort of help him on this journey. And so what's beautiful about it is I think what
the paradigms is because we're talking about fear, we're talking about how does this change
business? How does this relate to category theory is that for me, it's about not living a fear driven
life. And it's about being fully open and awake and fully participating in life in ways that I didn't
want to look back on my whole life and say that I was driven by fear and the unknown. And so I think
seeing a person as developed as him, he was, I would call him, I call him kind of like my Roshi
in the early days, like my teacher, but he always treated me as an equal and we have been partners
in that way. But, he helped me sort of be able to step back and be fully alert on all things.
And that's what category theory I think also does is it allows you to sort of separate,
like get this meta awareness of how things related and what's your, how does the self sort of relate
to the whole. And so I think that's been transformational for me, that awareness,
right? Because without that awareness, yeah, you'll slip back into the old patterns of behavior. And I,
so I've converted this to conclude my, my long spiel here. I had this sort of discipline of lifting
weights, right? As a, as a meditative practice in a way, but it wasn't very, then I found Esteban,
I found Zen and we were going to Dharma talks together and I actually started sitting meditating.
This was one of those mirrors that he would metaphorical mirrors that he would hold up for
me. And like, we would have these really hard conversations about the trauma in our life and
the suffering. And he would be like, why do you have to label it? Cause I would say something like,
well, I'm glad this happened to me because I'm better for it. And he was just like, can you just sit
with it? Just let that, the pain be, can you not label it? Can you approach it without judgment?
And that was a moment, an inflection point for me. And I realized I needed to
develop a practice around staying open because it's so hard to maintain that without a regular
commitment to, to a discipline. So that's why I turned towards sort of sitting meditation. And
I think it gives the same effect as category theory in a sense of understanding the self so
that you can forget yourself and see how you're related to the whole. So, and that's sort of that
idea of emptiness, right? That we have talked about a lot before. So I, I have experienced
in my personal life that awareness and I can, so I can know when I'm spinning back into these patterns
that thrive the current structures that we live in.
Katie Grant- It's another relationality. It helps to have people around you who are doing some,
who are also trying to open and stay vulnerable, or who also are at least trying to sit with the
awareness, the discomfort, trying to see from other positions. Because I do think it's, it's very
challenging and it relates to the way that category theory is itself. It's a pretty small group of
people still working on it, even though it has this transformative quality and there is resistance
trying to bring it into business. There's resistance and there's good reasons for all of that. But in a
similar way, once you start opening to the world, it does get easier, but at the same time you do
encounter resistance because maybe you're entering situations where you can't explain fully kind of
all of this stuff, but you're still going to follow through with it. Maybe you're not checking the
same boxes that everyone else would have checked in that membership. And in the, if you're staying
in the old kind of way of looking at it, do you feel like this is an ongoing thing for you or is it,
because sometimes when you talk, I feel like it's so easy for you now or something, but you're not
saying that, right? Or are you?
No, no. I mean, it's incredibly difficult in terms of just staying in the tension, right,
of the current business paradigm and then this new way that we're trying to crack open. We've
touched on this, right? Like, I'm not sure it's going to happen from the inside. I don't know if
a business is going to ever adopt fully what's available. And so I guess what that means for me
is I may not live to see this come to fruition. I think they probably will.
But if we, we don't have a, we're not, we don't have something we're trying to attain to be happy,
right? But taking the journey is itself enough. And the fact that we even started the journey is,
is, is enough of a, of the reward. So I think we've had to adjust our approach to,
to staying in that tension. Otherwise you would turn around and give up, right? Because
there's so much rejection and, and, and, you know, not in a bad way, just because people aren't
prepared for it or the conditions aren't there or, but that's the progress of science and technology,
right? The context has to be there. I think we, we think that there is opportunity for a transformation
on all dimensions here for society. And, you know, Roman Republic wasn't replaced with democracy
overnight. So it's going to take time. And, and I think that we're, we're trying our best to leave a
contribution that, that we can build on hopefully, and, and, and really bring all the great work that
the mathematicians and scientists have already been doing in this space to really put them on a stage.
So that engineers like me in the future can have a bridge to new ways of thinking, new frameworks, and
to relate more directly to life and then personally or professionally.
Yeah. I think that's the application part. That's not like the applied category theory and starting to
look at the world a little bit differently and try, even though it's hard to find examples that are
already there all around us in nature and elsewhere. But also, as you're talking, I also want to be
clear that I don't think you or Esteban or, or anyone is saying this is the only way or something,
or that it's like, you found some magical thing. Cause it can feel like that too, as if the knowledge
is somehow privileged or something. And it's not at all that it's almost, it could be meditation or it
could be, it's more that you found something that brought you some peace and some it's widened your
life. Is that, or I don't know how we, how would you say it? It's how it's changed your life in a
positive way. And it's like, you want to share it with people. Right. And in business too, you can have
a better business. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of the rejection that I've experienced in business and trying to
promote this in a way is good because it allows me to study the, I don't, I don't sort of fit into the
flow of things in business in a way. And so because I'm a little removed, I have a way to
study the inner workings of organizations and coordination and teams in a different perspective.
And so I think that the challenge has also given us insights in a way, right? That it's, so I'm not
saying it's not easy. It's, it's come up with a lot of work, but it's been rewarding on the people
I've met. I've met so many amazing people in the community of category theory and people like yourself
as well. We're trying to, to understand and see how we can use it and promote it. So the relation
I've acquired so many relationships that have enriched my life. And in addition to the sort
of philosophy that has been transformational for me personally, it's really changed my, uh,
my worldview in a short number of years, but it was hard work. I had to do the work to sit in that
tension and unlearn what I had learned and think like a beginner in a lot of ways. I think that's what
holds a lot of people back is, um, yeah, they're sort of trapped in their own expertise,
their own, and they can't un, unwind their own assumptions. Do you think anyone could do this?
Does it require some kind of special, is there a way of accessing all of this regardless who you
are or what you've been through, or is there some? Well, I think, I think the confluence of experiences
from childhood and personally, socially, tech scholastically have all prepared me for this in
a way. So maybe that's hindsight bias, but if I could characterize it, I would say the kind of
ingredients are our curiosity, kind of some new, new things like that. You can't run because it's
new and the courage to stick with it when it gets hard and unfamiliar. And yeah, so I think,
I think it's, it's rare to find like someone who can stick with it and stay open. That's the key.
Not because it's, there's a limitation of them. It's, it's a thing about humans and the systems
that drive us, right? It's the influences and structures that people want to live a good lifestyle
and they want to get promoted. So what are they going to do? They're going to solve the problem
that short-term and that's there. There's reinforcing loops that drive all that. So
that's why category theory is like almost too good for its own sake. Cause it sort of reveals the,
those delusions that sort of how we operate is sort of shows how we operate. And so that's why it's
like, it's almost too good for its own sake to be applied right now in industry. So we need a new,
that's why we're trying to lay a new ground to be able to, to build it up. I think we, we need to
create an ecosystem of, of people working on this from so many different angles. There is a rich
community of mathematicians right now that have, they've paved so much runway already for category
theory and the tools and machinery. We just, and we have, um, you know, Eugenia Chang's done a great
job sort of popularizing it in the sort of everyday language. And so there's like this void in between
and, and I hope that we can, the work that Esteban and I have done and we can continue to
do is build a bridge between, um, you know, help people with that on-ramp. That's a little,
a little more easy to, to, to get on. And, um, and that comes with tools and new frameworks as well.
So I think that takes a, it's no one company, no one person can possibly do this. It takes an ecosystem.
And so I hope that we can continue to grow the network in the community. Um, I had the experience
last year. I went to the, this thing called the adjoint school. It's the applied category theory
school. I've only done it six times. And so that sort of shows you how new this community is.
And I was the only engineer I think who has ever done the program basically. It's a six month, um,
seminar program where it's led by the, from the leading mathematicians. And yeah, I think that
that was a great signal of, of change where the, the mathematicians understand to truly apply if they
need people with real domain industry experience in industry, people like, like us know that there's
a whole new world of technology and science to, to be able to support. So building that bridge,
I think is a key step and keep, keep laying the foundation for this new way of thinking.
Well, everyone mentioned you or talked about you in this is always expressing a lot of gratitude.
And also they seem to see you as a very strong person who can deal with a lot and handle a lot.
And I guess we've talked a little bit about how you got there and what it all is, but you said
something at the beginning, just to kind of close it off. You said, after becoming a father, you, you felt
all this in a different way. I just want to kind of ask you a little bit more about that too. Has that
deepened a lot of this as that, because hearing everyone talk about how steady and smart and
responsible and all these things that you are and that you're able to deal with challenge and sit with
challenge and explain things and, but you're also very good at your job and that's what you're used
to with your life. You've excelled and been good, but I guess becoming a father must have been a whole new
thing. Did it open something different? Yeah. I think one thing that has taught me about
the philosophy of composition and is that I try to integrate all aspects of my life. It's not
I'm a Brandon at work and I'm Brandon at home. It's like, how can I, how can I find intersections
on all of this? And so that way I'm, I never feel like I'm separate, even decomposing my own life,
but everything is sort of related somehow. And so, yeah, I think it's helped me as a parent in terms of
the way I approach, you know, parenting. We, we, I think, I think, I think an actual tangible
result of my journey and, and, and, you know, of course with my wife as well, but we started
homeschooling our daughter recently. So I think just this realization that there is no one curriculum
to fit them all. And like the appreciation for uniqueness in an individual, even my own kids, like
we can create a curriculum and experience that's, that is healthy and meaningful to her. And my son,
eventually he's only four, but yeah, I think just embracing the uniqueness and, and multitude,
like we are multitudes and, and really living that through those kinds of activities, like the
homeschool or how we choose to relate to the kids. And, and also there's another example I have
the old me, like, you know, control oriented and perfectionist, the kids draw on the wall or
something. And it's like easy to get frustrated, like, man, well, you're putting the things out of
order. Like, what are you doing? And I, my philosophy has completely shifted in that way,
because now I see that. And I think of a different context where sometimes the kids go to their
grandparents for a week or two, and I just miss them so much. And I look at that grand picture that
they drew on the wall. And it's like, I miss, you know, it's like, they're with me, you know, in a way,
because it's so that a capacity to sort of see different contexts and just, just see things as
they are and not judge them, like rush to judge like that, that ability to refrain, I think is all
because of this sort of journey I've been on and how category theory has like rewired my, my approach
to life. So it's just the beginning. It is. It really feels like it. It really feels like it's just,
it's just opening. All right, Brandon. Thank you. Okay. See you. Bye. Bye.
Bye.
