Hey everyone, this is a PhD talk with Jonathan Bildow, and he's one of my colleagues at the
Technology Institute, and he's doing a very interesting PhD about urban gardening in Ghana,
which is where he's from. But we talk mostly in this one about another project he did. He has
like a lot of different degrees from Ghana and now also from here, a master's in heritage. And
some of you probably know, I also work in areas of thinking about cities and heritage
and phenomenological heritage and so on. So this is more from that side of things, but
it's really interesting to think about sustainability in the way that Jonathan does.
So I hope you enjoy this talk. Okay. Hi, Jonathan. So good to see you. Thanks for doing this today.
Hello, Andrei. Good to see you too. So I want to start with talking about your master's project,
but you're now a PhD working on another very interesting project, which we'll get to. So
this is towards a PhD talk, but the paper that kind of caught my interest is based on your master's
and it's called Keta Lagoon, Uncovering Suppressed Heritage Practices for Sustainable Wetland Management.
Hope I got that right. You can correct me if I didn't. So I guess just to start, maybe we could
just learn a little bit about you. I know you studied philosophy of history at the University
of Ghana and then you got an MA in museum and heritage studies before you did this master's,
which is focused around the Keta Lagoon. So I guess I would just like to hear about that process,
where you're from and studying in Ghana and then coming to Germany to do this.
Yeah. Well, yeah. Thank you. You did a bit of digging on the internet. I come from Ghana. Yes.
First degree was in philosophy and in Ghana, you have the option of minoring, which means you do less
in the coursework on another subject. And in my case, it was history. So I would say that I minored
in history and majored in philosophy. Okay. So that was my first degree. And then after that,
I did a bit of tour guiding for a couple of years. And so, and you must be aware also that Ghana has some,
at least two sites on the UNESCO World Heritage sites. Yeah. And so I took visitors to those places and
used my undergraduate knowledge and history to interpret, you know, the history and the culture
to people. And so I got more and more interested in, you know, this museum and heritage stuff.
And so that was when I moved to the archaeology department in university, in the University of Ghana,
which has a program in museum and heritage studies. So, so that's why I did that.
So what was the, what were you doing the tour guide and interpretation and things?
Was it at the UNESCO heritage site or? Yeah. Okay. Interesting. Yeah. So what I did,
it was like a free freelance tour guiding. So I signed up with a couple of agents in Ghana
and so as, and when they had visitors, they would call me up, give me an itinerary and we'd have a driver.
And then we hit the road and follow the itinerary. I do the interpretation and so on,
but there are onsite guides who also did, did the talking or interpreted that. Yes.
But in between while we were on the road, a lot of interesting things to see. So I interpreted those
ones and if they have sites that we visited, yes, I interpreted those ones also to them based on my
knowledge. And so the M in archaeology department, you know, further deepened my understanding and,
you know, museum and heritage studies. A year still I was not satisfied. So I got more curious about
what is this UNESCO world heritage in this time. So I started digging and that's where I landed at ATU.
So like a true philosopher, you were questioning and looking deeper.
Yeah. Well, yeah. Sounds like that. So that's how I came to ATU and did the course work for the
M in World Heritage. And I guess if you just search online for UNESCO heritage programs,
BTU is probably one of the first, one of the ones to come up, maybe one of the only ones. So it makes
sense that you would find that if you were looking around. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So whilst I was doing
the course work under the World Heritage program here, then I took a course on philosophy of nature.
A very good course. Yes.
Yeah. So I got more and more interested. And that's when my MA project shifted to the Petal Lagoon.
Then I was looking at the history, cultural stuff connected to the Petal Lagoon. And also how did that
or did that interact with the Ramsar Conventions? And especially how the scientists or the ecologists who
worked on the site and drill management plan for the site engaged the cultural and the historical values of
the people and the lagoon. So that's how come, that was how my project came up.
Well, it's really interesting for me. I wonder, had you spent time at the Petal Lagoon beforehand?
And like, what was your experience of it before? How did you think about this particular area?
Hmm. Okay. Interesting. Actually, I grew up there. Oh, yeah. I grew up. So if you look at the Petal Lagoon,
Petal Lagoon on the map, it's between the Atlantic Ocean. And Okuta itself is between the Atlantic Ocean
and the Petal Lagoon is a land stream in between the two water bodies.
It's the biggest wetland? Yes. Okay. Yes. So sometimes I pride myself of growing up on an island.
Yeah. So if you walk a few kilometers, you are either on the other side of the water body that has the
Atlantic Ocean, and then the opposite side, the northern side, and there is the Petal Lagoon.
So I interacted with that growing up. Yeah. So, and then for the MA project, then,
by then, I had specific questions in mind. And so I went there to interact with some of the
knowledge holders quite a bit. That's an important, that's an important term,
knowledge holders. So we, but before we get into that, I wonder when you were doing your tour guide
stuff and your interpretation, if you were noticing already that there were certain
suppressed kind of heritages, or if some of the themes that you end up exploring in the master
were already part of that questioning. I mean, were you seeing that maybe the way the visitors came,
or the way it was presented by people who weren't from the area, who weren't knowledge holders in the way
that you mean, was different from those who were knowledge holders, or had those themes kind of come
to mind already? Yeah, I would say that it was, I became more and more aware of them in the history,
in the history course. Yeah, sometimes you grew up in an area, you don't question a lot of things.
By the time we were taking the history course, a lot of debate had gone on about decolonization,
colonization, and so on and so forth. So some of those readings were present
in our history class. Yeah. Regretably, you know, going back to high school or secondary school,
as we call it, yeah, not much of it was present in our readings. So I became more aware of this
suppressed nature of the knowledge holders and their knowledge and history, you know, more in the history
class. Okay, I was going to ask you if in your philosophy, if you'd had what we might call
African philosophy or Africa, you sent me this great paper, which I'm going to link to. And in
that paper, he talks about in his education, which was a lot earlier than yours, I'm assuming,
that he didn't have any of kind of what you're talking about now. I mean, you're talking about it
in heritage, but of the African perspective or African philosophy, it was more Western philosophy. So I
wonder when you studied philosophy, was there more of that? Or was it the same kind of Western
curriculum that he talks about in that paper?
Yeah, I think it was a blend. It was a blend of both world. And also, most of the African, you know,
philosophers like we do, and so on. Yeah, they had a specific, you know, goal. And the goal was
basically to question their own culture, and also question the Western, you know, philosophy and so
on. So it's what we say is a blend of this world is what they were articulated as African philosophy.
So for example, the paper you sent me, did you read that in school? Was that what that would have
been part of what you were learning? Exactly. Okay, yes. Okay, that makes a lot of sense.
So there was already, yeah, this talk about which, yeah, I guess I'm trying to figure out if it was,
like the philosophy and the history are connected. I mean, they're connected even in your paper,
I started thinking a lot about how the ways we think and the philosophies we build have a lot to do with
with the actions that we sustain, and the ways that we sustain them. So they're not disconnected.
But I wonder in your school, before we get to the paper, that if it was already like, so these
were the same kind of things in philosophy and in history, were they connected? Or was it different
writers or different ways of looking at it? Yeah, different writers. Okay.
Yeah, different writers. Because the educational system has most often followed the Western structure,
and then the divisions in the knowledge system also were very present even up to now.
Mm-hmm. The debates about humanities and the science sciences and so on. And I guess the benefit that
we had out of those kinds of debate was that they introduced what they call core subjects in the
secondary school or high school. So if somebody who was on the science track, you know, doing the pure
sciences, chemistry, physics, and so on. There was a common course, you know, called social studies. Then
there, you had a bit of opportunity to look into sociology. And then they had a bit of history. But by then,
the historians were quarreling with that. The history lesson be subsumed in sociology. You know,
so there was that thing that was what was called core subjects. And so the division was sharper even at the
university level. Because the University of Ghana was established in 1948. And 1948, Ghana was still under
the colonial, British colonial system. So the structure was still in place. Mm-hmm.
And it was in 1957 that Ghana gained independence. And that's where the emergence of African philosophers
who were questioning their own culture and the Western culture, you know, began to articulate their views
and into their writing and so on. So the historians were different from the philosophers. But what was key to
the African philosophers was that they would go to already written bodies of knowledge, like anthropology,
history, history, and begin to take concepts, practices, you know, from there. And then to do their
conceptual clarification and questioning, you know, from there. So they were not actually
historians, but they were using very much historical sources. They were using linguistic sources, you know, to
extract, you know, the concepts and practices, and articulate African philosophy. And also using very much
Western, you know, language in some cases.
Yeah, language is a really important thing. And as I was, that makes a lot of sense what you said. It's
really interesting because in the paper you sent and your paper too, there's this always this interplay
between looking back at history and then, and within the history is the practice and the thinking in
a way of the philosophy. So I can see there's two different approaches in the way you said, but then
it seems very hard to completely disentangle all of that because you know better. But I'm imagining this,
so you have this colonial college university and these kind of set ways, these systems, these paths that
people are following and then people start questioning them, but they haven't really thought about all
these other historical paths that of course are there and important and influencing, but maybe haven't
been had, like people haven't focused on them and written about them and created all this literature
about them or had they, I don't know. It's kind of, was it a time where, where everyone had to re,
sort of rewrite their own histories in a way in terms of what was externally represented? Of course,
their histories as lived are different, but in terms of what's externally represented?
Yeah, I think on that front, there are two shifts in historical writing. The first was more or less a
response to the colonial history. And some, what some of British historians were saying about African
history, you know, because the forms of writing, it's, you know, to use Roman letters, you know,
and then leave documents and so on and so forth. This was very, you know, typical, you know, understanding of
the British philosophers. And so standing on that, they say that Africans, you know, had no, Africans
had no history until they had contact with Europeans. And, you know, because it was through the Europeans that
Africans learned how to write and so on. So the history, the, those kinds of writing and so on,
what will now become of those things, what they would call history or recognize as history.
Yeah. But the, there, then the Africans who were trained as historians, you know, also responded to that.
Yeah. One of the interesting thing, one of them said was that, well, Herodotus was recognized as,
as the father of history in, in, in the Western canons. Yeah. But what Herodotus was doing, really,
was collecting oral histories or oral stories from, from people. So if Africans can also
write or collect their own oral oral history, then that should also be recognized as history.
Yeah. So I, I love that. That's very interesting. It also relates a lot to the language part of all
this, and also this dynamic aspect that is talked about in that paper of the differences, right, between
these kinds of learning styles and philosophies. And yeah, I really like that that was brought up. And also that,
yes, I mean, that's Herodotus is kind of what we look to in this Western canon, but there could have
been many other people in there doing the same similar thing, right, and, and saying similar things,
and even expressing that as their language. It's just that it hasn't been, you know, canonized.
Yeah, yeah. And so the other shifts in the historical writing was more or less about nation, you know, here,
and if you take Ghana, for example, and the same thing applies to most African countries,
you know, it's more or less a collection of ethnic groups.
And all these ethnic groups can also be recognized as states because they have their own chiefs and
their own protocols, practices, and so on. In some cases, they are sharply different from other ethnic
groups. So here was a moment in 1957 and the 1960s for the rest of the African countries.
And then the president who emerged
unites all these ethnic groups in the form of what was, or what can be represented,
can be said to be a European state or European nation. You know, so then the history had to be
been told or written in a way that would unite, you know, the people. And there they use, yeah,
they use the museums, you know, and so on and so forth. And I think if you read Laura Jane Smith,
that's what she sometimes called authorized heritage, you know, discourse.
Yeah, although I have some differences on that, but that takes us away from what we understand. So
there, these were two shifts in the historical and right in the, in African history.
So I'm trying to, so you grew up in this area, which I didn't know. So this is very interesting in
the area that you wrote about, and all of these themes are part of, of this paper and of your work
and your ongoing work. So I'm trying to imagine you're growing up there and you're part of, I mean,
like it's your life. And at some point, I guess, in the way that philosophy does, we turn our attention
on our own, our own life, but you're doing this in a really particular way with the Quetzal Lagoon.
I wonder like a little bit about that process for you. What was it like to start to think of that area
that you knew so well from a perspective of writing about it academically through these, all these
lenses? Dick, was it kind of easy for you to do or? Yeah, I don't know. What was it like?
Yeah, the starting was easy. Yeah, because then I knew there was something to be said.
But again, one has to touch on a bit of the colonial history. And that's where we may tease out the
suppression, because there were the authorities had to devise certain ways to rule the people or to
govern the people. One form was direct rule, where there was a British colonial officer or commissioner
at a local area, instructing the people as to what to do and what not to do. But they were understaffed.
So they could not do that all over the place. And then they came up with another strategy, which was
indirect rule. So there, what they did was to identify certain leaders in the respective community
or ethnic groups, and then rule through them. And in these leaders, in most cases were chiefs.
But like I said earlier, you know, it's not homogeneous. And not all ethnic groups or communities
had chiefs. In some areas, they had priests, you know, priests of the land or the river and so on and so
forth. And that was their leader. But in the indirect rule, the thinking was that there must be a chief.
And so where there was none, they had to empower somebody to be the leader. And then that starts
the distortion. So their knowledge, the connection to water body, the land, and so on. Then the local
people now had to struggle to find a way. But there was this dominant, you know, presence of the British
colonial authority, empowering one over the other. So for me, that's where the form of suppression
was started. So now I knew there was something to engage. But where do you trace it? That's where the
difficulty was, especially when I read the management plan for the lagoon.
So that like for people who don't know about the heritage. So what was I mean, could you explain
what just like very briefly so that they had it been designated as a heritage site or what was
happening? Yeah. Yeah. So that lagoon was designated or is designated as Ramsar sites.
That was in like the 80s, right? 1988 or something? Yes. Yes. Okay. I think it's in 1988 or so.
Yeah. But the management plan and the research, you know, took off significantly from 1991.
That's when the ecologists and the natural scientists got involved with the research on the lagoon.
So you kind of have this Western presence coming in and saying this is going to be a heritage site.
I mean, is that fair to say? Is that how it felt? I mean, this is like you were growing,
you were just being born and stuff probably, but for the area around.
Yeah, I guess. So I'm just trying to give people an idea you don't understand. It's coming from
people working there, but it's also being imposed in a way, right? So how would you explain that?
Yeah. Yes. So Ramsar convention has
practices or articles, you know,
the,
that people working there have to observe. Right. Because all heritage sites sort of have these
rules and so on. And then this convention in particular. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So in this case
is what we call the state's party. So the states, which is not what that was formed after independence
with political leaders and so on and so forth. They had to appoint, you know, managers and so on to take
care of this. And I think it's still the case now it's under a ministry, you know, that hosts wildlife
resources. So, and most of the people who end up in these offices with the states are trained in the
natural sciences and so on. So they become caretakers of this water body and then the surrounding areas.
So that is quite distinct from the local people. Although they are, some of them may be part of the,
or come from the local community and so on. Yeah. So, but it's quite distinct.
And this is all probably very complicated because it could seem, I mean, there's a lot of what would,
I guess, might seem like good things coming in terms of maybe jobs or attention or something to
the area, but those could also be bad things. Yeah. So. Yeah. So, I was reading the
area management plan. Then they had a column where they talked about local community participation.
So, I took a look at it. And then, given the history that was present in my mind and I experienced,
that I began to ask, what's, what's the role of these people that I know of, you know? So,
so that I can understand, first of all, given the nature of the
structure where most scientists are not exposed to the cultural, sociology, and the history of the country,
or they are trained purely in the natural sciences. I can understand why local participation
would just mean the people who are readily available to take part in the management plan,
you know? So, so that's for me, it's where the suppression, well, although sometimes I struggle
if I should use the word suppression. Yeah.
Yeah. We can talk about that word, but that's powerful what you just said. Because I think,
actually, I wanted to read the very first sentence of your paper, of the one that was published in 2022,
and it's current efforts to integrate heritage practices in the sustainable management of wetlands
and post-colonial nation states assume that these practices have always existed in the forms they are
now. So, I think with what you just said in that sentence, we get into a really interesting place,
because it's not that people are necessarily trying to overlook things or assume things. I mean,
that's kind of what an assumption is. But what you just said struck me because there's even within
this kind of model that we were talking about, it's almost like participation itself means something
to the people who have written those rules. And it doesn't necessarily mean participation at this level of
actually understanding what the practices are and what the heritage is that should be conserved.
It's almost like that's getting imposed, but people don't realize it, right? There's some very weird
disconnect going on there that's very meaningful, I think. Assumption, that word for some reason stands out.
Yes, exactly. So, having the depth to go beyond the surface to encounter these knowledge holders is,
I think, a methodological problem, especially for those who are trained in the natural sciences.
And also because the nature of the colonial engagement, most of them had lost a lot of their power.
And if I should say, maybe their relevance, direct relevance to the people.
By the time we came up to independence, you know, so there are layers and levels of the suppression,
which are not directly obvious to people.
Even to the people themselves who are being suppressed, which makes it even harder, I guess.
And yeah, but maybe we can talk about sort of what you were trying to do or what you did do in your
master's. So, I know it's kind of impossible to summarize a master's in a sentence or something, but
maybe we can make it a little personal. So, I feel like you noticed there was something going on there.
We don't know what to call it yet. Suppression is probably, we can talk about what that really means,
but assumptions that were holding things down, right? Keeping things from being seen that,
as you point out in the paper, actually could be really productive for the goals of the whole
heritage project, like the wise use principle, which you talk about, or the very idea of sustainability
itself. So, there's this weird thing going on, which you point out in the paper, where the,
or your thesis too, but this paper, where there's a desire to sustain heritage and to be sustainable.
And doing that is somehow not actually noticing that there were already
practices that are the heritage that were sustainable. So, it's very strange, but maybe
you can unpack it a little of like what you kind of had in mind.
Yeah, well, I think you are titmated very well.
Yeah, but so, so let me just touch a bit on the Ramsar Convention and then come back to that point.
You know, so the Ramsar Convention itself was established in 1971.
So, 20 years after, you know, that's 1992, they recognized that cultural practices
and, you know, knowledge holders and so on, that live close to the water body should be part of the
management. So, at the international level itself, there was that recognition.
And what I'm now discovering is, you know, how then to get to the roots of these people
that have these intricate knowledge systems connected to the water body and elevate that
into the management plan that would attain the sustainability that is so much desired.
So, this is what the problem is. So, there's, first of all, there's a recognition that is relevant,
but then how to get to the root of this. Yeah, it's, it's what the issue.
Which we've already touched on a few of the difficult layers. I mean, the language, the history,
the change in power, the, yeah, all of this, there's so many factors there.
Yeah.
And, and then this idea of the wise use principle, maybe we should talk about that a little bit,
because the example that you give in the paper towards what we've been discussing is a fishing
practice, which I won't even dare try to say, Atsitka, or?
Atsitja.
Atsitja.
Atsitja.
Atsitja.
So, but before we get to that, maybe we need to set up a few things like what a knowledge holder is
and, well, I don't know, what do you think? What, or should we just dive in to how that's an example?
Yeah. Well, what I mean there, basically, I have a specific example of these knowledge holders,
for example, a diviner, you know, so if, or a fortune teller, these are not, these are things
that are embodied. And in, in most cases, they make an appeal to, you know, non-physical things.
Now that's different from the priests and the discussion about, because one very interesting
part in all of this is the way that the lagoon, the sort of male and female, um, deity that it was,
or is, um, and how this was kind of completely overlooked. And then, and that these, you call
them priests, I think in the paper, I'm not sure, but these people weren't consulted at all, or like
brought into the process at all, or, I mean, it's like not even recognized. And it's such a,
it's the body of water. So yeah. Is that relative to this, or is this something else,
what you're talking about now?
Yes, it's, it's relative to that. Yeah. So there were priests, priests, um, and then
a diviner as well. So they all played, you know, or played different roles. Um,
they played different roles at different times of the year.
Yeah. So I can talk about the diviner or the, yeah. Yeah. As you wish. It's just, I was just
trying to ground it that it's a very essential, I guess, isn't it? You can't not really,
I don't know. What would you say? I'm putting words on things, but it, I imagine that the heritage
of the people themselves coming up there, that this is in terms of the knowledge of the place
that it holds, you wouldn't be able to separate these, what you're talking about, whether it's
the diviner or the priest from it. However, in the way that it was, the way that it has been, um,
um, bureaucratized or whatever, none of this was represented, but maybe you can
better unpack that a little bit. Like how, how important was this? Is this for the people who
are in this area historically? Okay. Yeah. Historically, it was important,
but in contemporary times, um, a lot of power has been taken away from there.
Yeah. But so my point is, if Ramza says things that this is important and of which I share,
yeah, then we need to find a way to, to bring them back and give them more visibility. So for example,
if there is a problem, somebody is sick or what have you, or something that's, um, no one or nobody
can find an immediate explanation to it. You know, they go to these places, the diviner,
to find, to inquire what's the issue, um, is that they cannot understand.
And they also have, uh, festivals. And in that festival calendar, the diviner also plays a role
in determining certain things about deities, about how people have to regulate themselves,
and so on and so forth. Now, so those, um, ideas or suggestions that can come out of that practice,
how then do they come up in regulating the lagoon? How then do they come up in the management plan,
you know, is where the, I'm trying to get at. And that is why I think it's relevant and can be,
you know, sustainable. But there is also a very competing, you know, idea or practice, which is
Christianity. Yeah. You know, so majority, as of now, majority are Christians.
And that's related to the colonial times too. So it's even more, it's complicated about
how to disentangle that.
Yes. So, but some becoming more and more aware, especially when you take the decolonial
philosophy, you know, philosophical project, questioning, you know, these and finding accommodation,
you know, between the two, you know, systems.
And so that, that kind of decolonial project that paves the way to bring in the suggestions
and practices and the knowledge that these diviners embody into the contemporary, you know, management
of the lagoon.
Okay. This is really fascinating and kind of hard to hold. It's one reason I wanted to talk to you
because it's kind of this beyond dichotomy thing, right? Because we usually think of this as either
or like in the paper you talk about that you gave me, one of them, there's this notion of historical
and modern, that's very important, but we don't often think of it like that. It's more like, okay,
there must be people living in this area who still have all of these practices and still
are completely 100% following along with the diviners and the priests, and they don't know
about the other. Or there's Christians who are completely modern. And in truth, as is pointed
out in your paper and the one you sent me, it's always kind of a mix, right? People might be aware
of both and using them in different ways. Also, there's this whole historical suppression or whatever
we want to call it, assumption that's guiding, and the more people become aware of it, the more
things change. So it doesn't have to be an either or, it could be a dialogue that grows into something
better, which I think is what you're kind of expressing. And a lot of African writers that,
you know, some of the ones you've talked about are trying to express this, right? But isn't it hard?
Because people want to either do one or the other, like, okay, it must be that it's the old ways of
doing things, and that's the right way. And we can only do that, or it's the modern way. Or have you
felt that tension of how to hold, talk about, like, open that space to everything?
Yes, I've felt that. And it's also very present in the contemporary issues as well. But if we have to
carry out the project of sustainability forward, and if we think that the cultural practices of people
are relevant, or they can offer us something, then we need to engage that very seriously. And in
African philosophy, there are two, two more, and ontologies that most African philosophers have
consensus on, you know, one is that, you know, human beings are relational, you know, and that's where
one of the African philosophers tend the cards, you know, around, you know, I think therefore I am,
right? So, yeah, so he turned it around.
I am, and then therefore I think, or I have the potential to think or something.
Yeah. I am because we are.
Yeah, so not I think, therefore I am. I am because we are.
Oh, that's wonderful. Wow.
Yes. So that changed, you know, or subverts the Western philosophy. So if we have to carry out this
sort of relationality of human beings and accept the mutuality of human beings,
it's, and then it elevates the philosophical concept and ideas that these knowledge holders embody,
and if that finds expression into efforts of sustainability, then we are a step forward.
Because that provides a perspective to question what the international bodies, you know, have always
underpins, you know, their sustainability thinking. Because most often, if you think about sustainability,
they're talking about economics. And economics is thought of in individual terms, and profit making,
and so on and so forth, you know. So this idea that I am because we are, you know, provides a perspective
of what we are, you know, to question this economics of profit making, of maximizing profit, wherever you
can find it, at the expense of the environment. You know, and the African philosophers also find a consensus
for the idea that the idea that Africans relate to human beings, yes, but they also relate to the
environment in a very unique way, or relate to the nonhumans in very unique ways.
So to the African, I think the paper, Redo's paper, yeah. He touched on the view that, yeah, water bodies are,
and some water bodies are deities, or they have spirits behind them. They believe that there is a logical
distinction between present humans, the departed humans, the ancestors.
But all these logical distinctions are in a continuum. So, yeah, we are not only trying to sustain the
environment or water body for the present generation, but to a future generation.
And in doing so, you also take into what the ancestors have also left. You know, so these two
methodologies, you know, provide a perspective on sustainability and the underpinning economic
assumptions in sustainability as crafted in the international conventions.
I love this, what you're saying, because it speaks to what I think of as like nestedness,
right? Which is what I was trying to get at too, with that, not either or, like, there's all these
scales, right, that we can still learn from our own heritage, for example. And what heritage is can still
be learned. And I really love this, I am because we are. I think now is a good time to think about
that wise use thing, which is like, this wise use principle, which is that it should be for the
benefit of humankind, in a way that's compatible with, like maintaining the site such that it's good
for the ecosystem or something like that. I can put it in the show notes, the actual thing, but
it's mostly the sustainability thing. When you talk about too, like the SDGs, the sustainable
development goals, I think number 14 and 17, you bring up that, like what we're trying to do with
this whole practice that we talked about, these people coming in and preserving the site has to do
with this sustainability. So what we want to do is what you're describing is look at this nestedness
of history and peoples and so on. And the way that you present a possibility of doing this
is through this fishing practice, which you can say the word again, I already forgot.
So what is that? And maybe then we can look at that as an example of this, because I think
everything we've been talking about from both sides, right, from whoever are the suppressors
and whoever they're suppressed or whoever the assumers and whoever are the ones who are having
things assumed about them, which is always a dynamical changing nested thing. But through this example,
we can begin to see how it benefits everyone in a way, in the sense that you open up. So,
first of all, what is this fishing practice in the lagoon?
Yeah. Well, okay. So it's, yeah, so it's, as I've mentioned, it's mainly...
Did you see it growing up? I have to ask, by the way.
Yes.
Yeah. Okay. So it was familiar to you from the beginning. Okay.
Yeah. So many, they are, you know, wetland lagoons, you know, so there are trees, you know,
all forms of trees that grow around it at the bank. And so a fisher would go cut the branches,
you know, make them dry a little bit. Then we'll go and dump them, you know, carefully in a certain
area. And then use poles, you know, to hold them, you know, together within a certain radius.
And then that becomes something like, if I may say that a house, so to say, for the fish.
Yeah. I'll put a picture of it, or at least link to it, because it kind of is like this little
underwater house. And then you have these like little poles, or not little, these poles sort of
showing from above water where it is. Yeah.
Still there? Oh, yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. So these poles hold it, you know, because the lag, the lagoon flows,
because it is connected to the Atlantic Ocean. So it flows, it has, uh, times that it flows,
the currents are, can be quite heavy sometimes. And so the poles hold the branches, you know, together.
So after a while, the, the owner goes, cast a net around it, take the branches out,
and then trap the fish there. And then when that is done, bring everything back.
And then wait for another season.
This takes like a long time, we should say, because they put all the, it's kind of like just
cutting up lots of sticks, and then you're putting them underwater. And then the fish are like, oh,
wow, that looks like a great place to live. And this takes time. So like, it's over a year or two
years, right, that the fish suddenly, they're not like suddenly there, they build their little homes
there. And it's a whole little ecosystem that is created. But then all the fish are there. So you
have all the fish you could want right there. Yes. But it's a time that I bring up time, because I
think that's an important point. Like, it's a different time conception, too. Yes. Yeah. And
also when it's time for harvesting them, you know, they have a way of trapping them. They can go if it's
the pile of branches at one spot, they can go a certain distance away and begin to beat the lagoon,
sort of hit it. And then the surrounding fish, you know, get final, save him. And then they get to
trap their moor. And then that's when they cast the net around it. Yeah. Poor fish, but hey,
at least they're not getting hooks through their mouths and then thrown back in the water.
Yeah. So that's, that's reduced the types of signing fishing nets that use it nylon, you know, to fish.
And it's a way to also cut down over fishing. Yeah. So that's for me, it's a wise use practice
that should be encouraged, you know. But it has been sort of invisible.
I think you use the word invisible with it. Would you say these are knowledge holders, these fishermen?
Fisher people, fisher women and men. I don't know if it's women and men, but.
Yeah. It's predominantly male. Yeah. But they are women also present. Yeah. I would say they are
practitioners. They are, you know, they practice that, but I wouldn't say.
Yes. They embody some form of practice. Yeah. But they are not necessarily the diviners or the
priests and so on. The diviners and priests, yeah. They can also, or they own, you know, some of those
as well. Yeah. Yeah. So that's about the wise use consideration of the Ramsar. But the thing to say
very quickly about the wise Ramsar's wise use consideration is that in my reading it, the focus
was on birds initially, you know, migratory birds, you know, so the focus was on how to make safe spaces
for birds that move from one place to the other, you know. But there again, there are also local beliefs
about these birds, which were also not considered. And also there are some of those spaces where
that are considered safe heavens for the birds. There are also deities there.
So if the deities are recognized and incorporated in the management plan, yes, you can be serving the wise
use principle of the Ramsar convention, as well as promoting the local knowledge and belief system as well.
But if you don't know about that, if you haven't somehow opened a discussion about it, then that's
that assumption again, right? You talk about the forest too, that, I mean, this happens quite often,
I think, that what are considered values or assumed to be kind of universal values that just
don't really look at the nuance of what the bird might or might not mean from another perspective.
It's more just a giant category of bird that we need to save, or that forests save, instead of
understanding that from different positions, what a forest is, first of all, and what a bird is,
are completely different things. And you can't just lump it all together into a category.
So there's some, yeah, just opening that up. It's like opening up different ways of understanding
these terms. This, again, relates to the language. I feel like that's kind of what you're trying to
get us to do, to re-evaluate almost like our thinking process itself and the assumptions themselves
that we're making. What are the assumptions? And then asking, are those true for this particular context?
Yes, exactly. And it goes, again, into the core of the discipline, the disciplines that are involved in
in the management of these conventions of science. And so there, the starting point of Ramsar itself,
you know, could be faltered because it was more or less led by natural scientists,
who were concerned about preserving, you know, save heavens for the birds. So that the starting
point was a problem. But now it's time for us, like you said, to open this discussion up and
incorporate a lot more ideas that can serve, you know, different purposes. And in a way, going into
the sustainability of the water bodies and also for the local people as well.
Because if you think of it in this nested way, scales and everything continuous and that you
can't separate all these things from each other, which is, I think, what both of us are trying to
bring up in different ways, then even the goal of preserving birds or creating a safe space for birds
actually needs to consider all of this in the long term and the time aspect, because the people
who are there who are that place are going to be either making this work or not work in the long
term. Right. And so you can't like it's that kind of complex systems effect where everything's affecting
everything else. So it's better to take a minute and look at the these scales now.
If we really want to have this healthy wise use future sustainability, because they aren't separate,
right, they're all nested together, they're all affecting each other. And I think you show that
with the fishing, in a sense, because at least I mean, maybe I'm even reading into it a little bit.
But here we have a kind of wise use practice that already answers a lot of the problems that we deal
with in terms of overfishing the materials that are used the way the fish are treated, the fish
getting completely being gone. But also in another nested level, it addresses these more philosophical
and historical themes that we were talking about. For example, you bring up something with time,
but also with the way that we understand ownership, you know. So first of all, I already talked about
the time with the fish and how it's a completely different conception of time, which fits very well
with how we really need to think about nature, by the way, and sustainability.
So there's a lesson there. But also, we didn't say it yet. But people put up sort of a flag with,
I think, like a red or some kind of, there's a way of, yeah, like, there's a way of saying, hey,
this is in use, this little community, fish community I've created. And it's beautiful,
because so long as you're kind of upkeeping that flag, I'll call it, you can correct me, but that
sign, that marker, then the people around know, okay, this is in use, and we don't touch it,
and it belongs to whoever. But if that is left in disrepair or allowed to fall, and as it naturally
will, and if no one's using it, and it's just a stick going into the water, it's no pollution,
maybe a flag, then people know, okay, now this area is open for us, we can come use the fish.
So it's somehow beautifully kind of solving, or at least a different way of addressing some
issues of community that also we could learn from, right? But maybe you could say more about that,
or what you think, if that makes sense to you?
Well, yes, you've said it well. Yeah, so it's how time is connected to ownership of a particular space,
in the commons, you know, if you think of the lagoon as a common that belongs to all the people that
are living in the local area. So you can't say you're going to own a spot in a lagoon in perpetuity.
You know, so in that case, time, and also the pose as a marker of the portions that you own in the common,
are indicative of the temporality of the ownership.
That's very beautiful. I just have to pause for a minute, because there's so much talk now about commons,
and it's a very important word that I think we're trying to rediscover in this nested way.
And that's very important, right? That you have a sense of time and ownership in the sense that you
just explained, where just the action itself says, this is a temporary caretaking, or stewardship,
or ownership, if you want to use that word, of this space. But even the way it's created,
the materials and the signage, everything says, it's part of the commons still, too, you know?
It's very beautiful.
Yes. So,
but as soon as the poles, you know, go down, yeah, it's another person can take over.
Though the branches are still there, another person can take over. And human beings, we age,
and at some point, yeah, people get older. So your strength also, the strength and ability to do the
fishing also intervening in this time, you know, thinking about time and ownership.
So it's now when you can't do it. So the labor of the individual connected to time, you know, also
intervene in the ownership. So another person who has strength, younger person, also has time, can then
take over. So this is the sort of thinking I was trying to tease,
to bring up into the discussion of the common, and also to lead it into the sustainability thinking.
Yeah, I think it is a kind of ecological thinking. I hadn't thought about that. That's true. It is.
That's true, too, that you're even thinking of human lives as nested, that it's not only one
life who's going to be the caretaker, or, you know, we all come and we're strong at some point,
and then we, you know, there's this kind of rhythm, right, this natural rhythm. And then,
yeah, so that's a part of it, too. Yeah, it's great.
So, I mean, there would be much more to say about your paper, but I think I'll just let people read
it. I think we've given people a good reason to go look at it. But now on your PhD, you're continuing
with a lot of these themes with gardening, right? With, I guess it's like urban gardening in
post-colonial Ghana. Maybe you could. So, are you now building on some of this, too? Or just
briefly, kind of maybe, how does the urban gardening fit? Because that's another very interesting subject.
A lot of some of those ideas are there, but now I'm using them to think through gardening. So the
title of my PhD project is Urban Gardening and Sociotechnical Imaginaries in Post-colonial Ghana.
So, I'm thinking about urban gardening and also looking very much into the past, present,
and the future. And the projection, at least from UNESCO's or UN's point of view, is that more and more
people will be living in urban centres in the future. And also the other assumption is that
more and more people will be replaced with technology.
For example, when I was at the university, at some point you have to go to the banking hall
to cash money or to deposit money. But that has been replaced with ATM. So, the one who was
collecting the cash, what was the role of that person now? So, more and more of that will happen
as technology takes some of the roles that human beings do. So, for me, what's the ideal thing that we
can be doing for me is gardening. And so, if we think about urban spaces in the future, we have to start
thinking about how to reserve spaces for gardening in the future. So, in my project, I think about urban
gardening differently. You know, most people have gardening in boxes, you know, little corners and so
on and so forth. For me, it's, yeah, it's all good. But if that is what some people will be doing in the
long term or perhaps for the rest of their life in urban centres, then we have to think about it seriously.
And that brings in the discussion we are having about labour, you know, and time.
I was going to ask about that. Yep.
Yeah. So, I'm connecting those kinds of thinking also to the urban gardening as well. Because
we need some form of exercise and labour to keep us healthy.
And that's the reason why we go to run, we go to walk, and so on. Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah. So, if there is a form of gardening that we can exert some of those on,
the cultivation, walking to the garden, you know, growing, producing food, you know, and so on. Yeah.
Those coming, you know, will include labour.
And then we can also bring in the idea of the ownership of that particular space. Time
and labour will intervene in. Who owns that and at what time?
This commons idea and this, I mean, labour is, means such a different thing to a lot of
different people. But yeah, this embodied action, right? Action as knowledge. I feel like there's,
in the Keta Lagoon, something I really like is you feel that the action is the knowledge, like in the
fissure, in the way we just described time and commons and so on. That's a kind of new way of
reconsidering knowledge, maybe even looking back at old knowledges in a different way. But you don't
have it without the action. And there's probably something about gardening, especially in cities.
I don't know, do people that that's like that too, but in Ghana, what's it like? Are there mostly
people just growing stuff in their backyard or near their, like, what is it like? What are gardens like
in Ghana right now? Yeah, okay. So what explains it more is the socio-technical imaginaries.
You know, because, yeah, Ghana became an independent nation state 1957. And it took on a socialist
project or, you know, a socialist understanding of economics. Okay. So there was this mass,
this mass, broad, big ideas about agriculture, about industry, about manufacturing.
Labor comments. Yeah. Yes. And so it had all these big ideas, but that has shifted, you know, from the 1970s
and 80s. It's turned to be neoliberal, you know, in a sense. Yes. So now, in the cities,
you have a presence of manufacturing companies, some of the old projects that were started manufacturing
industries that were started in the 1950s, 1960s, you know, there. Now the new wave of neoliberal,
you know, enterprises, companies, businesses, and so on, are also springing up in the urban areas. And
these are competing for space. So the people who are in the urban areas now have to,
are struggling to have a place to garden. So what they are now doing, especially for
what I call the high-tension garden. High-tension garden? Yes. Yeah. So if you have, say,
main electric, electricity grid, you know, being transmitted from one place to the other,
you know, they have these massive vehicles and wires. So that's space. It takes quite a space.
No, so you find that some people, because the law is that people cannot live under that. Oh, okay.
It's also dangerous to health and so on. Yeah. So that's where some people are now doing gardening.
Oh, because the space is open. Yes. Is there any movement to try to think about
gardens as heritage in terms of protection or in terms of making space in the way that, or,
I don't know, all those words like sustaining preservation? Like, is there anything like that
going on? Not to the best of my knowledge. Yeah. Because gardening very much,
much, at least in the way I think of it, is much agricultural, you know, thing, much more horticultural
thing. So it's not the heritage idea and philosophical ideas are not entering those, you know, spaces
or disciplines at the moment. So gardening, yeah. There's also what they call peri-urban agriculture.
That's how it's thought of. So it's thought of, you know, producing food, you know, for the urban community
and so on. But the thing is that it's people who are making the effort, individuals who are making the
effort, also depending on the economic circumstances, to do the planting there. I'm not aware of any
government-led effort to consciously reserve such spaces for gardening.
That's, I mean, that makes me think, of course, of this idea that I talk about, which is like
phenomenological heritage, that the lived experience itself, right? The experience of gardening and of
why people would want to go make gardens in that area under the wires, like that to me feels like
heritage, right? And not heritage that's in the past, because it's, I think you address this some in
your work too. It's living, you know, it's, you're constantly kind of determining what the past,
present and future are, and when you're talking about heritage. So in the case of urban gardening
or gardening and what the role, what that is for the lived experience, the phenomenology
of the people living in the city is actually incredibly important. It's almost like a kind of
physical, or you could even think of it as like a mental, physical health issue of heritage in a sense,
because yeah, it's really creating something that's going to matter on all levels of heritage
and even, you know, also just of health for the city and for the people. So yeah, it's another one
of those things that is nested in a lot of ways that I feel like your work is going to bring out,
especially relative to those themes we were already discussing. So I'm looking forward to,
I've already gotten a little taste of it, but I'm looking forward to hearing more and
seeing your presentations and stuff. Is there anything you, we didn't talk about that you
want to make sure we talk about before we go? I already kept you a little bit longer than I was
supposed to, so. Yes, I think we probably, but the maybe one last thing about the gardening,
you know, it also, it's about belief, local beliefs about plants as well. There are also festivals
that especially that becoming urbanized or in urban areas that have some plants that feature in the
festive occasion, also part of the rituals. Now, these, some of them grow in the wild,
now we can also be thinking about wild spaces in urban areas, especially when you now have the states
and companies competing, you know, to get land, you know, and so on. So, so it's also about connecting
the local belief system to the plants and using that to make a case for a space to be reserved
for such types of plants to grow, so that there can be continuity of these festivals as well.
Yeah, I'm glad you said that. I think you gave a presentation way back where you talked about
about that a little bit in the colloquium, and I really like that part. And I think that's very
important for heritage too, that we start to get beyond this human-centric perception of what
heritage is. I mean, a city's heritage is not only its human heritage, it's also all the beings that we
depend upon and interact with, especially the plants. So, yeah, I really like that you have started
looking at it. I mean, I remember from some of your work, you're even kind of looking at it from
a plant perspective at times. So that's going to be fascinating to, to read more of, Jonathan.
Thanks for being here today and thanks for the work you're doing. It's cool to talk to you about
this. I think we've got even more we should talk about at some point.
Yes. And thank you very much for taking interest in the paper and my work. Yeah. And thanks for
all the efforts you put in. Yeah. And yeah, look forward for more discussions in the future.
Yeah, me too. It was my pleasure. I learned a lot. So thanks.
You're welcome.
All right. Have a good day there.
Yeah. Same to you.
Bye.
Bye.
