Okay. Hi, Lynn. We already said hi, but hello again.
So last time we got up to about UCL years and the book that you were writing with John.
And something I wanted to start with is you said something about teas that you had,
because we had talked about your tea time in Montreal with Hebb.
And you were going to tell me about some tea times at UCL that were even more daunting.
I can't remember why I thought that was important, but actually we did, John and I did, this is London.
So we went, we went for tea every day.
This is British life.
So at four, three or four in the afternoon, you go for tea.
Right.
And we had two, we had two different habits, you might say.
One of them was to go to the kind of universe, UCL Tea Room, which was a big room with a,
with a big old lady with a monstrously large teapot pouring tea for.
That's a good image.
It's quite an image, actually.
Really great.
So that was one thing.
That was the typical thing.
And that would involve walking through parts of UCL past.
Have you been to UCL?
Do you know UCL?
I have, yeah.
Do you know where Jeremy Bentham is, that kind of thing with his bot, whatever, in the, whatever.
I think so, yes.
We would walk from anatomy through the area, past Jeremy Bentham into the tea room every day.
And so that was a habit.
But the other habit was we would have tea regularly with the anatomy and physiology faculty in a room in, so anatomy and physiology were both in the same building in Gower, right?
I don't know if you know the way that UCL, Gower Street, there's all that stuff facing on Gower Street.
That's where the medical school is.
On the other side is the hospital.
On one side, on the east side of Gower is the, is the university.
On the west side of Gower is the hospital.
Right.
Or aspects of the hospital.
And so the anatomy and physiology shared one of the buildings on, right on Gower Street.
And they held joint tea in, in a kind of a big seminar room, the old style seminar rooms with lots of books, like a lot.
You remember what books, books with libraries?
Oh yeah.
I still have a lot of books, actually.
I'm like, I do too, but like, what am I going to do?
Anyway, it's a real issue because I've already gotten rid of half of my books and I still have.
Yeah, it's an issue for me too because I live in Europe and half of my books are still in the States and yeah.
So we went to this tea with physiology and anatomy and physiology at that point was populated by three Nobel Prize winners.
Ricardo Milady, Katz, Katz Milady and Huxley, Andrew Huxley.
I think it was Andrew Huxley.
And they sat around and held court in tea every afternoon.
So it was, it was me and John, a couple of brash Americans sitting around this table.
And there are these three distinguished, properly dressed, which I never was, the properly dressed British Prize winners sitting around holding court or talking about one thing or another.
And that was really transformative, actually, in an interesting way.
I mean, being in that kind of company, it was, it was a, I mean, my career has been extremely lucky.
So in that sense that, you know, at McGill, I was surrounded by people like that.
Yes.
More or less.
Yes.
High end.
You know, I was, and then luckily, I mean, in London, it was the same thing.
I mean, there were just people whose levels of achievement were such as to create a, let's say, an aspirational goal.
I mean, it was, you know, John and I were dealing with the best and we were, we had, there were no limits on what we thought we could do.
And were you writing the book during this time already?
Yeah.
I was writing the book.
This is, this is during the time we were writing the book, we were constantly interacting with those kinds of people.
And I think it had, must have had some sort of an effect.
And it was all around tea, which is kind of strange.
Anyway.
Well, I mean, for me, it's very fascinating.
I thought that was important.
But it's a very, and I still, to this day, order extra strong Marks and Spencer tea online.
I still drink tea that I drank in London.
Yeah.
I got addicted to it and I drank it.
I have, I have, I have Marks and Spencer extra strong every day.
Still 50 years from the late.
Oh, wow.
That's really great.
Did you ask them about, did you talk to them about anything that you were writing about at that time?
No, I don't know that, I don't know if John did.
I did not have substantive interactions with, with a number of them.
I did with one other person in physiology who, who shared my name, interestingly enough, a woman, a physiologist who did some really work.
Lynn Bindman was her name.
So I kind of interacted with her a little bit, but I didn't talk with, I mean, yes, I was inspired by these people to some level.
But the other side of it was, these were your average, these guys were your typical British, pompous British academic.
I mean, they were, that was the other message.
Science is one thing, personality and kind of politics and stuff is character or another thing.
So I learned that lesson too.
Did you also get the feeling that it's not as far away out of reach as you might've thought?
I mean, I remember at a young age being around famous people or people who are really well accomplished and it gives you a kind of sense of, oh, they're human and it's possible.
Absolutely.
That's the point.
That's the point I'm trying to make.
It's all, it's all, they just, they put their pants on one leg at a time, just like me.
Yeah, exactly.
Anything's possible.
If they could do what they did, I sure as hell can.
And I'm sure John felt the same.
Especially when you're young and you have all that energy still.
It's like, you can do this.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
So our attitude in, in when we're writing the book and you, you, you actually said it in your email.
Now, we actually were very consciously aware, maybe delusionally at the time, but we, we were consciously aware, because we talked about it, that, that the theory that we were putting together at that time could serve as a fulcrum for organizing the way cognitive science deals with the brain going forward.
We were very aware of that at the time that we were trying to, to, we were picking out sort of the most popular brain structure.
And we thought if we could put forward a meaningful theory of that structure, that was, that was based on multiple levels of evidence, anatomy, physiology, behavior, all of these things in, in sync to the, to whatever, to the best extent possible, that that could be modeled for how to think about talking about brain and cognition, essentially.
And so we, and so we, and that it could be the fulcrum because the hippocampus was so central that we could, if we could unlock that piece, we might actually create the beginning of, of how you could, that was, we had conversations exactly like that.
Oh, wow.
At that time.
I did say that in the email, because to me, from my perspective, having come a bit later and studied it, it seems like the thing that, I mean, of course, the, the story I'm telling starts in a way with that time period.
I mean, you guys being in that environment of McGill that we talked about before, but then it sort of coming together in that book and as the fulcrum or almost like everything kind of getting channeled into that.
And then almost everything that I see now kind of seems relative to that.
I don't mean word for word, exactly what the book says, but overall the framework, everyone just uses it.
Right.
Exactly.
Right.
I think, I think that's the truth of it.
And I, and I think we thought we might be doing that at the time, but, but we also had conversations along the lines of when we published this thing, it could just sink like a lead, like a lead balloon.
Sure.
Yeah.
I mean, we were conscious of the fact that it could just, many things do.
I'm not sure if I told you that this book that I recently published with Richard Lane, that on, on the neurobiology of psychotherapy, kind of very interesting stuff, basically.
So trying to understand what's going on during therapy.
I can tell you more about that some other time.
Yeah.
I know you taught some classes on that, but.
And I've published on that and I actually, I've done a fair amount.
Anyway, that book got published like the week that COVID started.
Oh no.
And the book just sank like a stone.
I mean, it's had virtually no, no pickup whatsoever.
Oh gosh.
Anyway, we, we thought that that could happen with this.
I mean, we were, we, we had two opposing views of what we were doing.
Yeah.
All the while trying to explain to our parents, or at least me to mine.
And I think John to his, like, what are you doing?
What have you been doing for the last five or six years?
You don't seem to publish much.
I mean, what are you doing?
Like what's taking so long?
So we, we, we were aware of both of those possibilities.
And we just did it because we were doing it.
Well, this is really, I'm glad we're here because I want to dig into this a bit because
I'm trying to tell the story in a way that's accessible to people who don't know anything
about brain science and in a way.
So I want to get to that.
But also I just like the fact that you, so you, you were already thinking of, of, of a
framework.
Were you thinking of a framework for cognition, for mind, or were you thinking, okay, just
for.
I think the, it would be too far to say mind.
Although John may have, John always.
He has all that philosophy going on.
Or you both do.
I mean, the whole first part of the book is a deep dive.
But John had a real background in it.
I didn't.
John's wife is a philosopher, got her piece of philosophy.
Eileen, right.
Eileen.
So John really had serious philosophical.
I read a lot, but I didn't know.
I had never, no, no actual training.
Yeah.
Anyway, so.
But were you thinking when you, when you were talking about it being a framework, were
you thinking about for the study of the hippocampus kind of, or were you thinking, because
this was also a moment, I think it's so easy to forget, but as we talked about in the first
conversation, it was all about memory.
And that wasn't that old, right?
In the 50s, 60s, you were there when all of that was just right after the Milner, the
HM, and that was establishing hippocampus' memory.
So you were just after that, studying with those people.
And then now we have navigation coming in.
So in cognitive maps and Tolman.
Well, what we did when we, one of the key moves we made away from the broader framework
of hippocampus memory was the notion of, of multiple memory systems, the notion that actually
the hippocampus is responsible for only one kind of memory and other brain systems are
responsible for other kinds of memory.
So that's the broader framework.
So we would put, we would be looking at the board and we would write hippocampus where,
all right?
Hippocampus tells you where you are.
All right.
Well, you also need a part of the brain that tells you what you're interacting with.
So what's the what part of the brain?
What's the why part of the brain?
What's the who part of the brain?
So we began to sort of think you could break down the brain into these, into networks that
we didn't talk about networks.
We were not yet networky, but it regions which are responsible for different aspects of knowledge
about the world.
And somehow memory emerges from all of that.
So we were not saying the hippocampus was where memories were stored.
We never said that, but we were saying it's, it's focused on, it's computationally structured
to, to deal with the where part of, of what's of the world.
We, we were not, we understood the notion of sequences, but we didn't make a lot of it
in the book.
I mean, we talked about it as though we meant that, but we never really said, and the hippocampus
generates C like Boussaki is saying.
I mean, we, we, we hadn't gone that route particularly, although John was quickly onto
those kinds of things and Bayes procession, all that came out.
But in the book, we hadn't yet talked much about the role of the hippocampus in generating
sequences and in, and in temporal, but we did talk about spatiotemporal, I mean, it was a
bit mixed up, but the framework was a framework of if, if we can solve the hippocampus as the
where part of the brain, then we can start to use that to leverage these other types of
knowledge that the brain somehow manages to represent.
And that would be a framework for thinking about how to link the brain to cognition that,
that we thought about, but we, but there were a lot of pieces we didn't anticipate.
And there were a lot of, uh, um, yeah.
Anyway, I mean, that, that, that was, that part of it was, was absolutely on our minds.
Yeah.
In a way it's, um, it's a bit of a brainstorm.
The book, I mean, you do talk a lot about space and time.
I like it that it's like that, that way, because you can see that it's not that you've decided
anything for sure, but you're kind of illustrating what I think now we can see a little bit more
clearly, which it's not necessarily, I mean, I didn't understand it.
Maybe I'm wrong that you're saying that this part of the brain is only this or this or this,
but just this idea that, um, we don't have to have these separate categories, um, of like
one kind of like there's memory and then there's navigation and then there's this and this and this.
Um, we didn't, I think you're right.
We did not realize it at the time, but we were actually weighing in on a, on a significant debate
about exactly this question of whether there are dividing lines between things like memory
and perception and sensation and navigation and decision-making.
We were weighing in on that debate without realizing we were weighing in on the side of
there are no dividing lines.
And you were showing that we could start to think of it in a different way.
I think that's the hard part, right?
Is because it's easier to think in these categories and maybe we needed to back then,
because it was all just beginning.
So then they're followed from the 78, they followed 20 to 25 years of debate about that
issue.
It sort of, sort of emerged and it was clear that our position put us on the side of the
hippocampus does everything with regard to space and navigation.
It's not just long-term memory or short-term memory.
I mean, it's the same system, different states of the system are involved in different aspects
of so on and so on.
It took us a while to realize, and I then jumped in on that side of the equation.
But I think that was inherent in the position we took right at the beginning, that we were
actually weighing in on these distinctions, these textbook distinctions don't make much
sense.
We continued to use them ourselves because we had no other language.
But I think the framework we were putting together was a framework that necessarily
dissolved those boundaries once it's not fully developed.
Yeah, you couldn't.
I mean, it's like, you can't, you couldn't possibly see where we are right now back then,
but in a way that's kind of opened the door for people to start thinking about it in that
way.
And one thing was this idea of the model and the map, which of course we, it's Tolman.
We can talk about Tolman and this idea of the cognitive map, but really making, like putting
the, looking at that instead of looking at these categories in a way.
And then I guess what I want to try to understand is how you were thinking about model and maps
and, and so on, because of course now everything is, you know, there's, that's what everything
is about in a way.
And we're still trying to figure out, are they really in brains and all of this, but
it really generated a beautiful kind of sketchbook to think about all these big issues beyond
those categories.
I mean, it's hard for me to actually think about how to talk about this issue because
I don't think I was ever in the other place.
I think as I described to you, because I went to undergrad in Canada, I mean, I don't think
I was ever in the place thinking that it wasn't like that.
I mean, I always, I just started from where HEB started.
And you take under, if you take intro psych from HEB, you assume that the brain is creating
representations of stuff in the world.
I mean, that's it.
And I never had another view.
So when, that was necessarily going to be the position we took when we went to the hippocampus
because I, I, I couldn't think about the brain in any other way.
And, and I think John was influenced a lot prior to McGill by his working with ethologists.
So he was very tied into thinking about the real world.
And so trying to record it, really moving animals.
I mean, John's career was, was heavily influenced by the early work he did with Danny Lehrman on
ethology, on real behavior, real animals in the real world.
And that's kind of what John did.
He brought that into physiology, so to speak.
So we, we, we knew from the beginning that we were, we were dealing, we were both of us,
because he was the same.
He had worked as an ethologist, not, he was not in a psychology program where he, where he
was learning behaviorism when he was a man.
He came to McGill, kind of like a blank slate almost, with philosophy in the background.
Yeah.
And this, he'd been etology, right?
So both of us, we, we never thought, well, let's see, are we, are we saying something
different here?
We'd never even imagined it.
We didn't know there was another, I personally can think that, I don't think I understood
the depth of the theoretical positions taken by the people who, who I was ignoring at the
time and any of them, right, I paid no attention to Skinner or the behaviorists or any of that
stuff.
Like, it was just nonsense as far as, and I think I was unfair to them at the time, but
so I was totally in the representational camp already from him.
Okay.
So when, when we got going on this, I mean, we were obviously, the, our notion was that,
yeah, there's something like, there's an equivalent to something like a map in the brain.
So the, the, the brain forms these internal models.
I mean, I, you know, it, it, it couldn't be any other way.
It seemed, I mean, how could, so again, this is straight head.
I don't think there's anything.
We were trained in that way of thinking and we went that way.
And Tolman was the other influence, which I don't, I only just recently realized this,
this, um, George Miller.
Like Brenda Milner's.
Not Brenda Milner, Miller.
Miller, George Miller.
Okay.
Seven plus or minus two.
That George Miller.
Oh yeah.
The number that you can hold in your working memory.
Yeah.
George Miller, right.
And George Miller, George Miller wrote a book in 1960, which a lot of us read,
um, plans and the structure of behavior.
Oh, do you know this book?
Miller.
I, I, this sounds familiar.
I've definitely haven't read it though.
A very famous book.
Miller, Galanter, and Prieber were the three authors.
Right.
And they proposed what they called the TOTE mechanism, test, operate, test, execute.
They proposed a, a kind of a, um, what's the right word for it?
Like I'm, I'm, I'm having word finding trouble these days.
My age is showing itself.
They proposed a model, a mechanical model, more or less of how the brain works.
And, and it was very much anticipated, uh, the predictive story.
We can, we'll get to that.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
You could say, um, but it, it, it was where they were talking about it in a way that they
said that the brain creates an image.
They were talking about images.
So they actually were talking about what is functionally the equivalent of Tolman's cognitive
map within that model.
They didn't use that.
So, so I had read that book.
Everybody read that book in those years.
Cause it was like one of the few books that was really trying to do something interesting.
Um, and, and I, I suspect that that might've influenced us as well, that, that the general
framework of that, of that, which, which anticipated, which assumed that they were built
in representations and assumed that those representations kind of influenced how you
reacted in the world and that the feedback from those, how you interacted in the world
then caused you to change the, I mean, all of that is very clearly kind of where we are
right now.
And the germs of that was in that, were in that book, even though it got, it's book had
a, you know, mixed faith at the time, but, but it certainly, I think influenced again,
further to think about the brain as a representational device.
So I don't think there was ever any chance that we would have approached this differently.
I'm not sure how we ever could have come up.
Having seen those place cells, having read Tolman, having been trained by Hebb, there
was only one, there was only one place to go.
And yeah, the question was how it was, how deep we were going to go into it.
That was really, how are we going to, are we going to write a short paper on this and
be done with it?
Or are we going to take this, the whole, the whole 10 yards?
And what do you think was the deciding factor between going, going all the way?
It just kept, you couldn't put it down or something.
I feel like I, you, you said at some point, you just couldn't, there was so many interesting
avenues or something.
The thing, it just kept on expanding and we just, well, really, we should, we should add
this piece, you know, and we can't forget that piece.
And it did start out, I think, as I told you, it started out, we were going to just write
a paper and I don't know what would have happened if we had ever written that paper and that
then gone on, gone our separate ways or something.
I have no idea.
I mean, we didn't tell the story, but that you were going to write the paper, right?
But then you kind of upset the editor at the site.
Well, I assume that we had insulted, I had insulted the editor of site review.
So that was, that there was no longer an option.
So then we decided we'll write a small monograph.
In those days, it was quite common for Oxford University Press to publish small monographs,
really small, 150 pages, something like that.
So that's what we did.
And we actually entered into a discussion with Oxford and they, they thought it was a
good idea.
So we, okay, we'll do a small monograph.
And we wrote a, and we wrote a draft of this small monograph by, it was in 1972, I think
when that first draft was either 72 or 73.
And we had this draft, it was about, I think I told you this, about 200 pages, maybe two
to 300 pages typewritten.
So it would have been 150 manuals.
It would have been something of that order.
And I, did I tell you this already?
Without all the philosophy and everything.
No, no, this had everything.
This was, this first draft had bits and pieces of everything that showed up in the, in the,
it was already a kind of a version of the full book.
Although nowhere near is fleshed out because we had already by then decided that if we're
going to tell this story, we're going to have to situate it in a context that, that
demonstrates how important it is.
So we had situating in this broader framework of this is a debate that's been going on in,
in, in, in the field.
This is a debate that's been going on in scholarship for thousands of years, basically.
And what's that debate?
Well, how does the brain, how does, how does the brain deal with the world?
I mean, we had something to say about that.
We thought, and we, and we, we wanted to situate it in the big debate about, for example, like
where does our spatial knowledge come from?
I mean, so there was this big debate about innate versus, I mean, this is, and the debate,
that's what the whole first chapter is about is tracking this debate across time.
I mean, it's almost the debate of space and time and absolute versus relative.
And that's it, it's that debate.
It's these big debates that actually go back to like the first philosophers in a way.
That's exactly right.
So we wanted to situate it in that.
That's why the philosophy section came first.
We wanted to situate this story that we were telling.
We wanted to give it the importance we thought it deserved, that it should be situated really
at the nexus of these big, of this really big philosophical issue, Kant versus Leibniz.
And Newton and Einstein and everybody's in there.
And then I, exactly.
So the whole, it was exciting.
I mean, it was.
It is, it's still exciting.
And in some weird way, it's kind of the question that spans disciplines.
Yeah, it remains.
Yeah, it absolutely remains.
The question remains.
So that was the way, so that, that we, we did this, we had this 200 to 300 page.
It was 300 typewritten pages.
And we made 30 copies, Xerox, 30 copies.
And we sent them to people around the world.
We sent them to everybody we thought could give us some useful feedback, unsolicited.
Half of them were people we didn't know.
People in philosophy or linguistics, because there were parts of this thing that, et cetera.
We sent this unbidden out.
And we talked long about the risk we were taking.
Yeah, I think that's why it's so successful in a way is because it's, it's looking at the
problems.
It's talking about the problems.
It's not necessarily saying here's all the answers, but it's like showing there's different
ways to explore it, which for me becomes a bit the framework that we're trying to embrace
this interdisciplinary idea of neuroscience, cognitive science.
I mean, in a way you, that's kind of the, the start that I'm talking about.
It's bringing in all that stuff that now that's what you study.
You study all that stuff.
Right.
Exactly right.
And I think that's kind of where we were coming from basically.
Yeah.
But I do wonder if you thought about if memory and navigation needed to fit together somehow
because of this one area of the brain and all of these different studies.
No, we didn't.
I mean, I still don't.
I mean, I'm still, I think the field as a whole and me certainly too, are still, is still
struggling with, with this contingent fact that navigation and memory are wrapped up together
in the brain.
It's a fact.
We know it.
Yeah.
But why, why did it have to be that way or did this just, you know, I mean, why do we
have two eyes in the front of our head rather?
I mean, there's all kinds of things that happened.
They didn't have to happen, but they did.
And that determined what came next in evolution.
So why, why, why are these two things kind of so wrapped up together?
And that, that remains a challenging question.
Yeah.
I do think that for me, that's part of the importance of all this too, is because, and I'm
not sure you will agree with this.
You might actually disagree, but for me, it's starting, we're starting to see that those
aren't really different things, but it's different ways of looking at this process.
That's part of it.
You can use the same model to look at the process from different angles, which is really
hard to get it to understand.
Dissolving these bar, these lines, these, these, all those categories.
It has those, it has, it has that effect.
Exactly.
Yeah.
I think we're still figuring out how to do that.
And maybe it takes some new technology and maths and so on.
But that for me is the exciting thing is opening up to, it's not about calling one category
memory and one navigation, but what, what are we trying to figure out?
And then we might see different patterns in the same area.
That's true.
But it's important to remember that the kind of memory we're talking about is a specific
kind of memory, right?
So it's not that navigation is entwined with all forms of memory.
It's, it's entwined with a brain region that is, that is critical for a particular kind
of memory, right?
And other parts of the brain are not connected to navigation in that way.
So it's not that memory and navigation writ large or are totally intertwined.
It's that there's an aspect of navigation and an aspect of, it's a Venn diagram issue.
There's, there's aspects of navigation and aspects of memory that over, what we call memory
that overlap, right?
And I've been, what I've been thinking, and I, and I, I don't think we ever said anything
like this in the book is that it has to do with, and I've made, we didn't really address
the evolutionary issues in the book.
I've written about these.
You've written about development.
I wanted to ask you about that too.
But the, but this is, this is phylogenetic development.
The arguments that I make now is that the evidence now showing that the hippocampal mapping
system can be used for non-spatial things is part of the debate.
Is this really a spatial system or not?
So the argument I'd like to make now is that evolutionarily, it started out as a purely
spatial system that what drove the, the evolution of this system was the need to effectively find
your way around in space.
I mean, which is all terrestrial animals, not just terrestrial animals, all animals that
move, if they move, they've got to figure their way around in space, unless they're one
celled organisms that just drift with the water.
I mean, there are kinds of animals that don't, even then they're still making their
way.
It's just making their way.
It's not a different way.
Smell and things like that.
Right.
So, so, so the idea is that, that life on this planet presented finding your way in
the world from an evolutionary perspective as a key problem that had to be solved in order
to find food, in order to find mates, in order to find safety, all these ways, everything
requires being able to move effectively in space.
So in a way that is life, right?
It's day one.
You're figuring it out.
There's no choice.
So the argument is that it started as a purely spatial system, but, but in order to do the
job that it had to do to map space in some reasonably detailed way, so you could actually
find your way around in the world, it had to, it had to be focused on details.
It had to actually be focused on details.
Now, if you put together a system that is basically noticing all the details in the world
and, and sort of mapping them, if you will, or into some, onto some sort of a scaffold that
enables you to work out the spatial relations amongst them, if you do that for a purely
spatial purpose, you end up with a memory, you end up with a memory of the details that
existed in that space.
So argument goes, starts as a spatial system, needs to deal with details in order to, in
order to function effectively as a spatial system, having evolved into computationally
a system that can do that with details, this indexing mode of hippocampus, suddenly it's
a memory.
This is great.
Now we can use this as a memory, right?
And it's a memory for the place that I was in context memory as a memory for where something
is located, we can use it for memory.
And then it expands in that way.
And this device, this kind of relatively flexible computational device that can take details
and map them into a continuous manifold, which is really what a cognitive map is, can be things
that are not spatial.
Once, you know, with enough jiggering in evolution, you might be able to map something else onto this
system like language, that can, so on and so on and so on.
So that was kind of where, where we were, that was what we were thinking.
Yeah.
I mean, that's what I, that would be kind of how I would propose it too, in a way is that
it starts with that system that you described, but even what we call spatial can change a little
bit depending on where you're measuring it from when it comes to something like a language
or an image representation.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Space is by no means a, a unique, an unequivocally simple thing.
Space is as complicated as memory.
Right.
So, so that would be.
But this same thing that, the same process that you're describing can actually kind of
scale and nest at different levels.
And it even doesn't even have to be only the hippocampus, but I mean, there, there's something
about the process that you're describing that.
Yes.
Yeah.
Anyway, so that was the framework.
Now, the other piece of the framework, so the bigger, broader framework was that we think
we can break the brain down into these systems if we think about them the right way.
And the right way to think about them is the kind of knowledge that they convey to the organism,
spatial knowledge, value knowledge, the amygdala, et cetera.
You can, you can see where this is going.
Yeah.
Well, then what next?
Well, then the other piece of the puzzle that you've, that you've pointed out was that
we bought in right away.
Again, we didn't think about it as like, there's an alternative here.
We bought in immediately to the idea that if you have such a thing, you can use it to
make predictions.
You basically use it to behave.
You use it.
When you come to a choice point, you consult your map and it tells you, if I turn left,
I'm going to get this.
I have left, right problems.
If you turn left, you can make this.
If you turn right, you're going to get that.
That was essential.
That was essential to the model.
Right.
And so we said that.
So this whole idea of active inference, minimizing surprise, prediction error, all these kind of-
We didn't use any of those words.
No, those words aren't there at all, but there's a similar idea that's going on.
You have some kind of, yeah, you have some kind of model, you would have called it, right?
Or map.
Right.
With which you're, I mean, I guess you don't, prediction is the word we could use now,
but in a way, that's how you're moving through the world in the way you described.
Like the more, so you move through the world, you notice patterns in the world,
you will align or fit to those patterns, whatever.
And literally your brain is doing that.
And that is your kind of model, which you then use to minimize whatever might harm you.
Exactly right.
So the framework we were creating where we bought into Tolman's idea that what you learned
about all the expectations you learned about leads to that, right?
And then you act on the base, Tolman had it too.
I mean, this is, we're not new to us.
So we bought into that completely.
And then we said right off the bat, one of the key things the math does is it makes predictions.
And that we did say, we said predictions.
We did use that word there.
We didn't say the brain is a predictive device and we didn't say all that, none of that,
but it's all, it's all implicit in the frame that we were, that we were creating, I think.
Well, I think that's a strength for everyone, right?
In the same way you were just describing Miller, it's similar to Tolman, which is similar to
Hebb.
There are different ways of trying to describe something that people are obviously seeing
and have the technology to somehow try to point out.
So I feel like in a way, the cognitive mapping and the predictive processing, you're in two
different references and two different kind of ways of coming at it.
But aren't we sort of trying to basically understand how some sort of body with a nervous
system processes its encounter in a way to survive?
I mean.
Absolutely.
That's the key right there.
That's the whole story.
But, but of course it turns out to be not so simple.
Well, it's so rich and it's always changing.
And weirdly in the way you describe, the more we learn about it, the more it changes because
it's all like one process.
Yeah.
But I do wonder like how you really think about representations and models and so on.
Tolman already, there was this connection with knowledge and navigation and it's all already
in all the stuff, but when you study it, sometimes we still try to separate everything and say
there is like a static representation in the brain.
And are you saying that or are you, is it more patterns based than parts based?
It is patterns.
I mean, wow.
I mean, that's a tough one.
These are the tough issues.
These are tough, but you know, it's the kind of stuff that people need to talk about more.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Here's what I, here's what I'm current.
I mean, this really speaks to the question of what do you think a memory is?
Yeah.
Amongst other things, you could say, what do you think a representation is?
But let's say, let's talk about it in terms of, or even a trace because it ends up with
your multiple traits, like people still can go around the same theory or the same issue.
Something changes in the brain as a function of our experience.
Yeah.
Everyone accepts that.
Right.
I mean, we've seen that in the studies for sure.
Know that things change.
Okay.
Whatever that change is as a function of a specific experience that I have, that the
changes that are, that occur in the brain that reflect that experience, we can call
that a representation of that experience.
Let's do that for the moment.
Now the question becomes, is that representation explicit in the way you're describing?
Is it a static pattern that you could point to?
If you just knew what to look for, you could say, aha, the activity of these 72,000 neurons.
That means I'm thinking about a bird.
I got versus the idea that we don't actually have, I chose a bad example.
Let's take an example of, again, of a memory.
So I have a sort of a memory for what I did yesterday.
Whatever, whatever happened in my brain changes that occurred today, that stored information
about what I did yesterday.
So the question is whether they are stored literally as a kind of a memory, the way a recording is
stored, or whether they are stored in some other form.
And then the information that is gained during that experience is somehow put together when
you are recalling it.
Is memory always a constructive act of putting some things together?
Or is there some actual template that is the memory?
And all you have to do is ping it, basically.
Like we could go lift it out of the brain or something rather than...
Exactly, right.
Now I'm veering in the other direction now.
I think up to recently, people were of the view that, yeah, there are memories and you
could find them, right?
You can, and they are permanent.
And we know that, blah, blah, blah.
You can change them and then reconsolidate.
Then all of a sudden, the dynamics of memory began to emerge.
Registry, consolidation, a whole bunch of other things began to emerge.
The sort of the dissolution of the line between perception and memory, the idea thereof.
All of that stuff conspires.
And all that stuff that's in the book that got richer too.
Yeah, all that is kind of in the book or hinted at in the book.
And then you say, well, does it make any sense to talk about memory that way anymore?
Kind of the way the sort of medial temporal lobe memory system framework talked about memory,
that you have memories and they're stored in this system.
Yeah, I think you're already, in a way, what you're saying is we don't have to talk about
it that way anymore.
I'm not sure it was ever that way, but we needed, that's why I bring it back to the book
because it's similar to those categories and stuff.
You need them up to a point.
You need to believe them as real, somehow like that you can pick them out of the brain.
But we maybe just don't need to believe that anymore.
I don't think it actually changes the research that was done.
It just changes the way we talk about it.
Absolutely.
I believe that's true.
But for a while, I mean, the field of memory, at least, was dominated by the debate between
those two positions, right?
Yeah, and I really understand it because you want to hold tight to that.
And I just think it's more that we can't handle how to understand that it might not be there
in some static way.
It doesn't mean it's not there.
It's just more that a million things could be there depending on, again, what encounter
are you in?
When you think about, I mean, we're trying to work on these questions of how, what is
actually there and, you know, how stable is it?
I mean, what we know is that most of these things are not very stable.
I mean, the whole thing of a, so everything's up for grabs there.
But my position is close to what, my current position is, is very much what you're hinting
at now, which is we don't need to talk about these things that way anymore.
Now, I prefer, I published a paper back in 08, I think, which you may or may not have
seen, it was called Update on Memory Systems, where I said, throw the work away and we should
just use, you know, the idea that we acquire knowledge of various kinds when, and different
systems are responsible for acquisition of different kinds of knowledge.
And then when we retrieve a memory, we just access all the knowledge we have and put together
that memory.
Yeah, it's good you bring up that it actually has these real consequences.
I mean, because we can get lost in trying to describe it, but actually it really matters
in terms of if we, if we want to help people who have some issue with memory or something.
So it's not, yeah, like it matters the language we use, but what we really want to try to figure
out it and what you're trying to figure out in your work is how do you like figure out when
and how those traces or whatever we want to call them, representations are activated.
Not that they need to be stored somewhere, but it's like, how do you, what, what, when
something goes wrong, what's going wrong?
Yeah.
Well, that's kind of what I'm interested in now.
And that's the predictive, that's the prediction error story.
When something goes wrong, when your memory leads you astray, you make a prediction that
doesn't get confirmed.
Your memory no longer holds for the current situation.
That's the, that's where the adaptive story begins.
I mean, what happens now?
How is the system structured such that it can take this faulty prediction and benefit from
it?
What happens now?
Right.
So you got to go back and you got to figure out where did the prediction come from in my
brain?
And how can I change that information in a way that I, in the future, I can behave appropriately?
And so all those dynamics that now come into play.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's.
I think that's important too, is that same notion of what, why it's important to write
books about this and to collaborate.
Your career has been a big collaboration and to, because a lot of it is this figuring out
the story.
It's the more that we, I mean, this word trace is kind of loaded now that I talked about trace
there, but the more that we can sort of trace this development.
of how we understand all this research, because even our understanding of the research begins
to change, the better maybe we can start to kind of model and understand how to do that.
Right.
Like even just looking at that book and being able to read that book and all the papers
too.
It's one reason papers are still important.
You can start to see patterns, right.
That have held, and if you can reinterpret them in the way that you're doing now, you
never know.
It might be something very simple that suddenly can help us understand how to keep a better
health in terms of whatever.
That's what we're all hoping for, that kind of little insight, that holy grail, that it'll
all crystallize and it'll all look so simple.
Oh, right.
I'm sure it will at some point.
That's how it goes.
To me, that's the scientific enterprise and that indeed the way the book up here, I mean,
that's in fact a metaphor for how aspects of the book got put together.
Yeah.
The book is a bit of an example of that.
But take it, take an area, say, okay, let's say we want to, we want to say something about
development.
I just then went and read everything that had ever been written about development of
the hippocampus.
That was my job, right.
And those sections of the book, which were all of the behavioral lesion sections, I just
read everything and it was pieces floating around everywhere and just around and then
suddenly they crystallize.
Suddenly what you just described happens, that you begin to see a pattern in all of that,
that allows you to simplify it and you rotate stuff and suddenly everything's lined up and
you actually have a story that makes very few assumptions, very few free parameters, but
it actually accounts for a lot of the story.
That process that I just described in 30 seconds replayed itself over and over and over again
throughout the whole book, all the sections that I, I don't know, I don't know how John
approached writing the physiology.
He probably had something similar, but in writing all of the sections that I was primarily
the first drafter of, that was the process.
Do exactly what you're saying.
Look.
Yeah.
And in a way, weirdly, this is kind of a good example of, of what we're trying to figure out
because you were able to do that then because there were, I remember you telling me you kind
of went back and bought all the books that you, or as many as you could.
There they are.
Yeah.
They're there with you.
I got them on my bookshelf.
Yeah.
There's one bookshelf right there.
There's about 25 books.
Right.
Which is amazing.
Yeah.
I mean, if you tried to do it today, like you need new technology, new ways of processing
it in a way, but it's the patterns that are the same in a way.
You're still looking for patterns in the same way.
And the more deeply you go, because you went very deeply at that time, the more they crystallize.
It's just, we're trying to figure out how do we process so much more information in a
deep way.
That's a, that is a significant problem for students now.
You know, I mean, I don't envy the job that younger, you and younger scientists have other
younger scientists and trying to, trying to sort of distill the patterns because the
data set is so much more enormous than it, than it was before.
So it's, um, it's tough, but you know, I, I think if you were there around technology and
I mean, all of that is true, but you know, at every stage, I think the people who are
living there, their scientific experiences at that particular moment in time, they can,
you know, they can think there's all way more conflict, but they've,
You always feel overwhelmed.
You find lots of overwhelming information.
But did you feel overwhelmed?
Did you feel like that when you were trying to read all those books or did you think,
Oh, this is manageable?
It was manageable.
Yeah.
It was manageable at the time.
You felt it because, because this was early seventies.
Yeah.
There may have been a thousand, a couple thousand.
I mean, there really wasn't that much.
I mean, there was a lot, but there wasn't so that we, I went, I read whatever I could read
in other languages.
I got translations.
I mean, we went into every, we tried to track down everything.
Everything that had been published on the hippocampus as of nighttime and try to distill the patterns
from that.
But now there's a piece missing here, which is if you do that and you start with no hypothesis
whatsoever or no framework, you're it's basically needle in a haystack tunnel.
You have to go to the very first step of looking at this massive array of stuff.
You have to have some organizing principle in your head.
That's a really important point because you already, as you said, had this, you took for
granted that.
We had a framework, we had a framework and an orientation that basically pushed us in
a certain direction that facilitated crystallization of a certain sort.
I mean, without that, you could be basically moving around space, the space of this problem,
so to speak forever.
And we sort of made that point.
I mean, John made that point about the units.
You said, if you, if you may have read that somewhere, look, if you, if you, if you approach
this thing, like you're going to give an experiment, you're going to explore one variable, right?
You're just going to confine the animal.
You're going to really restrict this environment.
You want to explore one variable.
Really?
Do you really think you're going to find the right one out of the 14,000 that you might
have manipulated in that experiment?
Yeah.
Yeah.
You have to have some idea.
What are, what are the right variables?
What are the things that are likely to tickle this brain structure?
You have to have some idea to start with.
And we did.
So we had an idea.
And with that idea, one could look at this literature and say, can that idea help us
crystallize this mess, this steaming mess of data?
And what you see in the book is the result of our attempts to sort of make sense out of this
rather in coate literature, all within the same framework.
As your, um, we have to go soon.
So I just wondered if your views of, um, like behavior and cognition have changed at all.
In the beginning, you were just, I mean, do you really think of them as separate?
Or do you, do you see, do you see it all as behavior and cognition?
Yeah.
Well, let me cognitive, I didn't even know how to define cognition.
I mean, that's my first problem.
I don't, I, I just try to stay away from it.
I mean, and whenever I ask even very serious psychologists, can you give me a definition
of cognition that does two things?
One, it, it cleanly separates things that are cognitive from things that are not cognitive.
Okay.
The definition allows me to do that.
Mm-hmm .
And two, it, it, it does, it, it lets, it lets me ask the question, do other animals
and plants have this?
Mm-hmm .
Right.
Um, I have yet to find a person who could come up with a definition that satisfied any
of those.
Well, I have a definition and I think it's actually one you just gave.
And I think it's, if, if it's a body making its way through an encounter, um, that's a cognitive
for me.
In a way I think that's what I'm trying to get at.
I feel like you guys sorta started this way of looking at what is cognitive as, um, a particular
kind of act, which layers, of course, I mean, it, a plant making its way is a completely different
thing than a human who has learned representations and language and so forth.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But plants have memories.
I mean, I mean, a lot of the things that we assume reflect cognition.
If you look at definitions and textbooks.
Right.
And that's why I think that definition works for a plant.
You don't say that it has human memory because it doesn't have a human body.
It doesn't have a human nervous system, but it's still gonna have memory.
Yeah.
For it.
Um, but, but the typical human in the street says the word memory.
They don't think about what a plant is doing.
And that's the problem.
That's the problem.
Because if you say a plant has memory, they think you mean human memory.
And, um, that's the problem with how we've defined cognition.
But I think stuff like your book opens, the book opens up and we certainly use the term,
but I honestly don't know a very sharp definition of, of cognition that allows me to say, this
is not cognition.
So it, I don't, I don't spend my time doing that, I guess I like representations on the
other hand.
I wrote a chapter.
Did you read that?
Did I send you that chapter?
I don't think so.
On the neurobiology of representation.
No, but I would love to read it.
This was 1984.
So it's pretty added.
Oh, wow.
And it was a book that was, came out of a conference that was held here in Arizona.
It was actually the conference that I gave a talk in that led to me getting hired here.
So it played a role in my career.
I can say, I'll, I'll send you that chapter, but again, bear in mind that it's
very simplistic.
And, and because it was, it was before it was just at the cusp of the connectionist
revolution.
Oh yeah.
I would definitely want to read that.
So, so it was, anyway, I'll send you that, um, download.
Yeah.
Please, please just send it to me or at least send me the name of it.
Um, we only have four minutes left, but I want to ask you, cause you, you've been doing
all this hippocampal history stuff.
When we saw each other in Arizona, you were thinking about maybe still putting it in a book.
Are you still thinking about that?
Or are you just gonna.
I think that's over with.
Let me, let me send.
Okay.
Mr.
Send the represent.
Your Macedon stuff, your hippocampus.
Oh, I'm actually don't.
I don't do.
But the book, the book is that that's not gonna happen.
So every, what's what, what the new development in that, in that sphere is that Mike Castlemoat,
who's the editor of hippocampus, the journal hippocampus is, he had asked me to join him
in helping to put together a, a special issue of the journal.
And nowadays a special issue means more than just one issue.
It's whatever.
Yeah.
Yeah.
A theme.
Many parts.
And he, he's invited about 20 or 30 people to write somewhat a little bit different in
response to somewhat different questions than the one that I was posing to people, but nonetheless,
and I'm joining him with that.
A lot of people are.
So there's gonna be a kind of a series of articles coming out, out in the journal of hippocampus
over the next year or two.
Okay.
Where people tell their, their personal story about how they discovered what they discovered
or how they did what they did or so that's the, that's the latest on the history front.
I've given up the idea of do, of writing a book.
Cause I couldn't figure out how to do it that I was happy with.
So I'm happy just to get this history out there, but that's, that's where it's at.
I just want to make sure.
Cause you, I know you were asking people all these really interesting questions and stuff.
And I just, I, first of all, I want to be able to cite it.
Like if when I'm writing the book, so I wanted to know, are you going to compile it somewhere
other than.
No, I don't think I have any intention of doing anything more with it than what I've done
with it.
I mean, I've, I've put it out.
I've put everything out there for the, for the use of the public.
It's all out there on Mastodon, which is not necessarily accessible to everybody, but it's
out there.
So it's public and people can do whatever they want.
And what about, didn't you do some interviews with Milner, Brenda Milner and stuff like that?
Are you going to put those?
That one's on Mastodon now as well.
I broke it up.
Oh, it is.
Oh, okay.
Great.
Go back to Mastodon.
I did the, the Brenda Milner.
I edited the, the Moser interviews and the Brenda Milner interview.
Okay.
So recently.
All right, great.
Maybe a month ago or two.
Yeah.
That's really good.
I don't feel like we got to a lot of stuff.
We didn't, we didn't even talk about Arizona.
We didn't talk about the McDonald's.
We didn't talk about anything, but we at least talked about interesting stuff relative
to the brain, because that is what I'm in a way trying to figure out how to.
But where are you doing?
I'm working on a different levels, right?
So as a philosopher, I'm trying to find actually a way to, to really define what cognition
is.
And I feel like it's already there.
So I'm kind of looking at stuff that you've done, but also in other in biology and a lot
of different places and trying to say, what's the pattern in the framework that everyone's
already pointing out.
But I'm also, as I told you, I just want to tell the story because I think these ideas,
I think can be very helpful for everyday readers.
If it's told the story of the hippocampus is told in a accessible way.
And it's also to be, you're all just great characters.
It's interesting.
So I'm also writing that.
Yeah.
So, so what's your timeline?
Um, I already have the first draft of the seahorse one, the book, but there's just so
much that I still want to, there's just so many interesting people.
There are.
Yeah.
There's just so much.
It's like, that's why, as you know, you could just go on and on telling the story of
the seahorse, the hippocampus.
Yeah.
Have you talked to John?
I doubt it because John is.
I haven't even tried.
I talked to him in Arizona, but I didn't even tell him to pay attention to you over email.
I mean, no harm in trying, but I doubt it.
I haven't tried yet.
I would love to talk to him.
I really want to hear about his philosophical years.
And like, I actually want to ask him about Eileen and if they talked about it and.
Why don't you send them an email and say, this is, these are the things you're interested
in, you're writing a book on the history of this.
And these are the things you're interested in.
And would he, would he be willing to spend some time to tell you the truth?
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Maybe I will.
And you can say you've talked with me and he could check back with me.
He might check back with me and say, is this person legit or whatever?
Okay.
Yeah, I will then.
There's no harm.
I don't think you have any harm in trying.
No.
Okay.
If you're going to write the story, it would be a good idea to try.
The other, another person I think you should think about talking to if you haven't done
already is Yuri Busaki.
I have talked to him.
He, I went and visited him at his office and stuff.
So we've hung out some.
Good.
Yeah.
Yuri is.
Yuri is Yuri.
He's good.
He's really interested in the philosophy side too.
So that.
I'm thinking.
Yuri.
Good.
I'm glad you've made that contact.
I encourage what you're doing.
If I can help in any further way, let me know.
I'll send you that.
I'll send you that.
The representation chapter now.
Okay.
When I get along.
Those of mine that you think, Hey, this is this about you or about anyone that you think
this is really important and it should be in a story about the.
I don't know.
I think it would help me.
I mean, if I saw what you were including, then I might say, Oh, there's a missing piece
here.
I'll send you a draft of it before, before it's published if you want to read it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I will at some point.
If you don't mind reading yourself as a character, but I think you'll like it extra.
It's all very positive.
It's, it's a positive thing.
You might want to talk to Sharon Ranganath also, by the way.
He's just coming out with a book now on, on memory.
He's gotten a lot of press in the last week.
Oh, really?
He did.
Yeah.
He was at my lab.
I didn't know he had a book coming out.
Oh, really?
It just came out two weeks ago.
Wow.
Okay.
Gosh.
Something like, why do we remember?
Whatever it is.
Ranganath just came out within the last few weeks.
He's been doing interviews.
He's, he's going to go over to the UK.
Apparently do.
I mean, he's cool.
It's a big, for the public kind of book about memory and remembering and forgetting.
Okay.
So Sharon is, yeah, somebody you probably want to pay attention to.
Yeah.
That's good.
I, I just haven't been paying attention to popular culture in the past couple of months.
So I'll have to look at that.
Thanks for telling me.
Yeah.
All right.
Well, it's been great to talk to you and I appreciate it.
And I'll be in touch again.
Good luck.
Thank you.
And you're still in Amsterdam.
In Utrecht.
Yeah.
In Utrecht.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've been in Utrecht.
Nice.
That's where we live.
Enjoy.
All right.
Be well.
There it isn't.
It's been nice.
