our brain is not in here. It's always between me, my body and the environment.
You don't come to the psychiatrist because you have an auditory hallucination.
You come to the psychiatrist because you cannot navigate the world. The core of our psychological
life is the synchronicity. Synchronicity with yourself, synchronicity with the body, synchronicity
with the other, synchronicity with nature. It's amazing. We are one fractal within the many
fractals of nature. In the natural world, you do not have dichotomies. You have continua. You have
gradation, and that's key for nature. Hello, everyone. Welcome back. This is
a research podcast where we delve into all kinds of subjects relative to how we make our way in the
world. We talk about what we love, about life, about learning, about books, about the different
paths we've been on, about some pretty deep subjects and ideas relative to the mind, relationships,
challenges, inspirations, all these shared landscapes. And we try to do it beyond the
traditional divisions that we're told we should keep in terms of what does or does not fit together
or what should or should not be said in certain contexts. On that note,
this one is a little bit heavy. It's very neuroscience based about the brain. Not that you
need to know everything about the brain to listen to it, but just a heads up,
it's definitely one of the neuroscience ones. We're talking about space and time and the brain
and some ways of thinking about brain activity and the relationship between the body and the world
and the brain through spatiotemporal patterns, even thinking of self almost as a spatiotemporal
pattern. And as you can imagine, that can be a controversial idea. But our guest today,
Dr. Georg Nordhoff, has studied it from many angles. He's a philosopher. He's a neuroscientist.
He's a psychiatrist. He has degrees in all those disciplines. He's from Germany, but Ottawa,
the University of Ottawa, recruited him to head the mind, brain and neuroethics research unit
at the Royals Institute of Mental Health Research. So he's working with patients every day relative
to different mental health challenges, which he also tries to understand from a neuroscientific
experimental angle and which he also tries to understand as a philosopher coming out of
the German tradition, phenomenology, but also, as you'll hear, heavily steeped in Kant and
Schopenhauer. His main research is between the different neuro and biochemical mechanisms
that might be related to these big ideas of consciousness and self. In this conversation,
we talk about what it might mean for all of us to have some sort of unique spatiotemporal pattern
and how that might be expressed in the brain or the body or the world. We talk about how
consciousness is like an iceberg, or I should say iceberg, iceberg. It's a little too German,
I guess. Iceberg with some of it submerged under water, some of it above water, and what this kind
of example might tell us relative to the waves in the ocean, as Nordov talks about. We talk about
fractals and the fractals of nature and the fractals of all of these different measurements
of trying to understand consciousness and mind and the body. We talk about subjectivity and how
important it is to try to look at all of this from an individual point of view. It's kind of
a heavy conversation in some ways, but also gets to some really just everyday normal ways of trying
to understand our life and how we're affected. I hope you enjoy it. I'm really glad you're here.
If you want to support love and philosophy, there's many ways to do that. I'll link to
Nordov's lab and to his books if you want to explore more about spatiotemporal neuroscience.
It's a work in progress, but the basic idea is focusing on spatial temporal patterns when we try
to understand mind and consciousness, which sounds like a really fascinating idea. Something worth
exploring and risking being wrong to find how that might actually be right or apply to our life in
ways that could help us with some of the issues that we face about mind and consciousness. All
right. I hope you're doing well out there wherever you're making your way.
Hi, Georg. Welcome to Love and Philosophy. It's so nice to see you.
Yeah. Hello. Nice to see you again.
So I already know you and your work, but for those who don't,
would you say you're a neuroscientist, philosopher, psychiatrist, all of the above?
Well, I think I would all do all three. I'm a brain-mind researcher, so I'm interested in
exactly that interface. If you want to basically have one label, it's a Nordov, it's a brain-mind
researcher. Great. That's kind of why I asked because actually what you're doing is transcending
those dichotomies a bit. But I wonder how did you get interested in these subjects? Which one came
first or if one came first? Yeah, good question. So I had a very good
philosophy teacher in high school and who really got me interested in philosophy. But then, of
course, the question arises, what do you want to study? So I wanted to study philosophy, obviously,
but I didn't want to study philosophy just alone. I wanted to study with another more specific
discipline. Of course, in a strong candidate, of course, mathematics, physics. Another candidate,
slightly different, is law. And the third candidate is, of course, neuroscience. And at the
time, strangely so, there were no neuroscience programs available in Germany. And that was just
30 years ago, so it wasn't that long ago. And so then in order to get into the brain, you had to
study medicine. And yeah, and that's why then I studied medicine. And of course, in doing the
medicine, it's very clinical, it's not so much scientific, and I also added the neuroscience to
it. What was in the early philosophy class before we get to the other part? Do you remember what it
is? What sparked your interest? Understanding the world, I would say, and understanding what is
behind the appearance. So that's, of course, already a very punch in formulations, appearance,
reality. But it's really what is behind, what are the present positions, what happens behind,
that always drove me, yeah, to look beyond the curtain, or behind the curtain, if you want to
say. How did you realize there was a curtain? Of course, in the moment you get entangled,
and you can't find an exit. Then you try to move, and there's something there. So there's
some discrepancies. And for me, philosophical question, for me, philosophy is, see, I consider
these three disciplines as different methods, as different methods. You have a conceptual,
logical method of philosophy, you have an empirical-driven method in the sciences,
in the neuroscience, in the clinical, you have more sort of a clinical, phenomenological,
subjective approach. And for me, these are different methods. And that's why I'm saying
I would consider myself a brain-mind researcher who uses these three different methods. And of
course, now I also use computational stuff from engineering and physics and artificial intelligence.
So for me, these are just methods focusing on one and the same problem and question from different
angles, with different terms often, but then you have to transfer. So you got a PhD in philosophy,
a PhD in neuroscience, your medical degree. Am I missing anything? There's another one in
there somewhere. Right. And then the psychiatry, I was a licensed psychiatrist.
So, okay, I want to push you a little bit because your work, you do try to move away from this
mind-brain dichotomy, but you just said you're researching brain and mind. So do you really
think of them as separate, or are you using these words in the kind of traditional way that they're
used? How do you really see them? Good question. Of course, I mean, I think it's really the,
at least for my generation, it's really the question. I consider that every generation
grows up with a certain question at the beginning of the 20th century. The people
grow up with a physics question. So probably I would have ended up as a physicist. Then in the
middle of century, biology and genetics resurfaced. Probably if I had grown up at that time, maybe I
would have gone into that direction. But in my time, and it started with Poppa Eccles,
The Brain and Itself, other books at that time. And yeah, so I think I sort of naturally got into
that. And so officially, of course, it's what you call the brain mind or mind-brain problem,
but you can deal with problems in different ways. So first you can just provide an answer.
And okay, you take the question at face value and take it seriously and say, okay, I want to
provide an answer. And that's what I see in the current philosophy of mind that is formulated in
the heart problem by David Chalmers and all the neuroscience, for instance, of consciousness.
However, then you can also have another approach. You can either say, you can resolve the problem,
meaning there is no problem. You can just say, okay, swim it away.
Naturalize it or something.
Yeah, naturalize it or just say, eliminate it. And that's what I understood is a little bit
done by, for instance, the Churchland and the neurophilosophy. And I would call this sort of
reductive. And then you can say, okay, maybe you can step literally behind the curtain and say,
maybe I just solve the problem and shift it to another question. So that's where basically,
of course, it's like you look for the presuppositions hidden behind the question
for the mind-brain relationship. And that's sort of a transcendental-like methodology,
if you want to say so, going back to concepts. And that's the approach I'm doing because I think
you can say, okay, in order to raise the question for the relationship of brain and mind,
both should be conceivable and plausible. And I'm thinking here of logical possibilities,
logical conceivability, not actual reality. So that's very important here. So it's a deliberate
philosophical move here. And then I say, yes, there's a logical conceivability that there is
a mind as distinguished from the brain. And then you can answer, then you can, based on that,
you can raise the question, how are mind and brain related? However, if you now say, okay,
the assumption of the mind may be logically conceivable, but not empirically plausible,
then you might get into problems with your question, how are mind and brain related to each
other? So in what I'm doing in my 2000, 18 books, spontaneous brain from the mind-body
to the world problem, basically saying, yes, the assumption of the mind is logically conceivable.
It's a logical conceivability. So the mind-body problem, the question for the mind-body problem
is a very plausible and feasible question within the logic. Now I go back to the natural world
and say, is the assumption of mind empirically plausible? Or can it be, is there something else
which is more plausible than the assumption of the mind? And the answer to my, probably we come later
to that in the interview, is yes, maybe the word brain relationship can also explain mental
features, and that's more empirically plausible. So I try to dissolve the problem. I don't try to
answer the problem of mind-brain. I don't try to resolve it or eliminate it,
but I try to dissolve it and shift it to another.
This kind of gets to notions of space and time, because in all that you just said,
you also developed this idea of spatiotemporal neuroscience. I always think of the way that you
describe space and time similar to the way you just described mind and body in a sense,
but to just try to generalize it more, is it fair to say that you're thinking of mind and body
world, mind-body world, are you thinking of them as different patterns, spatiotemporal patterns,
or something like this, in a really general broad way? Because these are the big questions.
How can we say these things are separate, mind-body-brain, or not separate?
Let me give you more and more refer to basic features of nature. So look at the seaside.
You're in the Netherlands. You go to the seaside, to the Northern Sea, and on a stormy day,
you have big waves, you have small waves, and the smaller waves are integrated within the big waves,
and the big waves are more slower, the smaller waves are faster. So here you see basic dynamic
principles. Yeah, basic dynamic principles of nature. And that's exactly also what happens
in the brain. So the brain has plenty of waves, and big waves, and small waves, and they nested
within each other. The smaller wave is nested, the smaller, faster wave nested within the bigger,
slower waves. And that's like the Russian dolls, or the Chinese crystal balls are much more refined,
many crystal balls smaller, bigger instead. So you have basically the same shape, but different
sizes. So that's exactly what happens. You call the scale-free organization, holds across different
time scales, space scales, and that's exactly in the brain. So that's one thing. So that basically,
you have basic dynamic principles in the brain. Dynamics means the change over time. And when you
look into nature, there are continuous changes. Everything changes. It's amazing. And our brain
needs to adapt to that. So now that say, okay, the brain is dynamic. Yeah, and that's basically
the lower part of the iceberg beneath the water. Cognition is the upper part above the water.
But as you know, the iceberg is only stable because of the lower part, unless the Titanic comes.
Okay. But now the second question, you said, yes, you characterize the brain as dynamic,
meaning it's continuous temple changes. And that's of course part of spatial temple
neuroscience. However, what you really want to show, how are these dynamic and spatial or
topographic features related to mental features like self and conscious? So again, I give you
another example, which I always like, is water. Water we all know is the chemical formula of H2.
So now imagine if you weren't knowing that water has the chemical formula of H2.
So here in Canada, you would say there's three different substances. In winter, it's frozen,
it's ice. Then in spring, it's a fluid. And in summer, when it's really hot, which is really
the case here in Ottawa, it becomes vapor. So if you weren't knowing that all three are related
to H2O, you would say these are completely three different substances. So how is it possible that
the same chemical formula transforms into such different states, depending upon the context,
whether it's hot, warm, cold? Same here in the brain. So I would say the brain has certain
dynamic configurations. They are neuronal. And when you have a proper context, then for instance,
the neuronal activity is aligned or synchronized with the environmental or the bodily activity.
Then in the case of proper relationship, it transforms into a mental state. Last example
for that, and that's why the alignment, the link to the environment, the integration of yourself
and your body as part of the wider environment is so important for me. Another example of dancing.
Dance to the rhythm of the music. You feel the groove of the music. And the better you get the
rhythm of the music, the better you feel the groove of the music. That's a mental. Are you a dancer?
I'm not a dancer, but I'm a runner and a rollerblader into this country where you have
rhythm. And I'm addicted to these rhythms. To rollerblading too? Yeah. It does change
your mental state, doesn't it? Sure. So you apparently do it too. I did in the past, yeah.
But also running. And it's interesting, right? Because it relates to that water, ice, steam. I
mean, you do feel like you change your spatio-temporal experience of the world when you
literally change your spatio-temporal movement when you run or rollerblade. And it does end up
feeling like it changes your mental state. But for people who don't know what spatio-temporal
neuroscience is, which is something you're developing, you're looking at these different
states, let's call them, through space and time and waves. So how does this relate? Are you actually
saying different brain states are different speeds? Or what is this spatio-temporal neuroscience?
Let me give you two indications because it's really a process and development. So first,
cognition. So you have memory, you have working memory, short-term memory,
and then you recall, no, you just nodded your head. So I recall that, or you said something,
I recall that. That's typical working memory or longer-term memory, what you said at the beginning,
your question, why I came into all this question, my high school stuff and so on. Okay. So now imagine
that my brain is so that, and then we use usually for specific regions and we look for a particular
frequency in the brain states mediating this kind of cognition. Now, if you pay attention,
attention is fixed. So now that's basically a very cognitive approach to it. And then you can do the
same for different motions. You look for specific regions or networks, and then you look for specific
time scales of frequencies. However, now imagine your brain has not only those functions,
cognitive attention, working memory, et cetera, and emotions, but it has also its own spontaneous
activity. And that spontaneous activity is continuously active and continuously changing,
meaning it's continuously dynamic. And it's also a certain spatial organization. So now imagine
if your working memory function occurs in the brain, which by itself is too slow,
what will you have? You're always delayed in your answers. Yeah. Or it occurs, or let's say your
brain is literally too slow. It's like a seaside, which has almost no waves anymore.
It's flat, meaning no change at all. It's extremely slow. So what happens? Of course,
you will always be delayed in your working memory. And you will always be delayed in your movement.
At the end, you might not even move at all anymore. We call this a psychomotor retardation.
It's a typical symptom of depression. Now, the opposite, if your brain is too fast,
your working memory and attention also becomes too fast, but that might not be beneficial
because you're too fast. You skip some of this. That happens in mania. So basically,
the brain provides a spatial temporal envelope around these different functions, cognition,
emotion, movements, action, perceptions. And that's, it's a lower part of the iceberg,
providing a spatial temporal envelope basically around the upper part, what we call cognition.
And now you say, yes, this is spatial, this one as spatial temporal neuroscience, how it perceives
cognitive emotion, perception, et cetera, in a spatial term. Now, the key question is,
where do mental features come? Because for me, the spatial temporal structuring,
the way the brain or tundish activity or task activity structures its own spatial temporal
features, that's strongly related to consciousness, sense of self. So that's a deeper layer.
That's why we, for instance, now investigate time and space experiences. If your time and
space experience are different, subjective, then you have corresponding time and space
changes in the brain. So depressed patients experience an abnormal slowness. Nothing moves
when you ask. And that's what leads them into depression. Imagine nothing changes.
There's a feeling of being stuck or something too. I mean, just in a very general way,
we can understand that there's a slow temporal spatial feeling or experience if anyone has ever
felt depressed, almost as if you can't manage to even get yourself to move or something. And
when something like mania, it does feel, even as the word suggests, as if everything is sped up
or is moving very quickly or something like this. I wonder though, are we talking about this in a
metaphorical sort of way, or are you really saying that there's measurable brain activity
that's slow or fast associated with something like depression and mania?
Exactly. I'm a German, so I take things very literally.
I've read these studies, but I think people who haven't, you're really saying it in a literal
way. And also we should describe about spontaneous brain activity, almost like a resting state or
something. Could people think of it almost as like the habits that you're, it's not just your brain,
but the activity of the brain, which is part of the body, which is part of the world.
It's developed certain, let's say habits or patterns of activity, just to develop, to thrive,
to survive, it's necessary. Some of it comes just evolutionarily. Some of it is through this
alignment that you talk about. But at some point, you've got some patterns, you've got some biological
habits, and that's in your brain too. And those aren't necessarily ever really changing. I mean,
they're always dynamic and changing, but they're changing in a kind of continuous pattern,
not based on what the body's external sensory envelope is experiencing. Is that kind of
what the spontaneous activity is? Yeah. I mean, the spontaneous activity is
right at the interface between brain, body, and environment. First of all, the depression. I mean,
you can really show that the perception is lagging behind. We showed this. Their movements are lagging
behind. Their thoughts are not changing, and their emotions are not changed. So you can really show.
And all that is related to corresponding slowness in the neuronal activity. For instance,
study which we just submitted, let's say your global brain, the whole brain activity here,
your whole surface cortex of the brain, is related, of course, with your motor regions.
The motor regions basically foster your movement and your action. And what we see in depression,
that this link from the rest of the brain to the motor regions of the brain are simply too slow.
There is a lag behind. They literally lag behind. It's like the kid in school
saying the right answer, but five minutes later. Yeah, of course, then during the answer,
nothing happens. Okay, fail. Yeah. So same as you can literally see that. And we use different
measures from engineering and physics to really measure the speed of the brain, literally. That's
what I also describe in this little book for the broader audience, NeuroWaves, which came out last
year, where we really said that the waves are too slow. So in depression, you have to imagine
probably it's like a flat sea and occasionally there are some waves, but not much happen.
When you look the first five minutes at the flat sea, you feel calm. Now imagine you look for one
hour at the sea, you become crazy and depressed. That's exactly what happens in depression.
See, other thing what you said, the patterns, I think that's a very, very interesting point.
I think how do you develop these dynamic spatial temperate patterns in your brain?
And that's where long-term environmental influences come in, for instance, early child
control. They can shape your spatial temperate structure and literally we and others could see
that, that you have much more disorder measured by entropy, whatever it is. You have much more
disorder, there's less structure and order in your spatial temperate features in the brain,
spontaneous activity when you have a high degree of early childhood. And you can see this 20 years
later. And that of course may then both force you to react with depression.
Yeah. So when you're saying they're slow or they're fast, what is it in comparison to? Is it in
comparison to other humans? Is it in comparison to the world that the brain is in? Is it in
comparison to the body? Like how, what's too slow? Is it in comparison to another part of the brain?
What's the slowness or the fastness?
Yeah, very good. So of course it's double. So first, you preferred individual speech.
And your speech will be different from mine. How can you measure that? For instance,
let people do finger tappings spontaneously in the frequencies they like to do.
And trust me, 20 people, different, 20 different speeds. It's unbelievable. So that's basically
your natural frequency. You can also do the breathing, for instance. The natural breathing
frequency is slightly different between all of us. So that's one. So you have an internal reference
on internal default, which has developed over time. And there's a genetic predisposition and
of course environmental. So this could be like kind of the resting state for the subject in a way,
or the spontaneous rest. Like what's kind of the normal state when you're not provoked or stimulated
or having to deal with some kind of issue? Yeah, it's like spontaneous or resting state,
where you say the absence of any specific task. Right. Which is, it still means there's a lot
of brain activity. It's just that the parameters are kind of similar. And we kind of all have a
signature. That makes sense, right? We have a spatio-temporal signature in a way that's always
going to be different from everyone else, but there's a lot of regularity probably usually
with kind of a healthy, healthy brains or so. But they are, as you said, highly individualized or
personalized. Yeah. And that's what we're also trying to use for therapy and mental
And then there's of course the other side. You said, what is the reference
for sloth? The other reference is your environmental context. So now imagine, so nowadays
your reference in the environmental context is really spot. You have these phones and they
constantly ring and here and there. And imagine, I often imagine a hundred years ago, how it must
have been for people the first time when I had a tent phone, you know, which is completely outdated
for us. You're the real telephone, not a cell phone. Yeah. Like one of those where you have
to kind of do it with your finger, right? I've seen that. Exactly. How it must have felt for
the people, for their space and time experience. Suddenly I have the voice here online and usually
it took me five hours of horse riding. Yeah. It must have felt crazy. And suddenly I have the
people- Talk about space and time change. Exactly. It must have felt intrusive. Yeah.
Almost like mysterious in a scary way. Exactly. And suddenly the other person is much closer,
both suddenly. And that means your environment changes and your brain miraculously adapts.
So we are doing a lot of now really new studies where we really saw how much the brain is sensitive
to temporal or spatial changes in the environmental context. It's incredible. Our brain is so
sensitive. So conceptually speaking, our brain is not in here. It's always between me, my body,
and the environment. Yeah. This is incredible. It's very exciting. But I think that that's
confusing too, because of course what we think of as the brain is always here. But what we think of
as what we've come to associate with the brain, which let's call it cognition, is always this
bot. You can't stop it at the brain, but it is a kind of bodily environmental interaction.
I think that's what you're pointing out too. You are kind of saying that it's this ongoing
process. I think Whitehead was one of your influences, right? Philosophically. So you're
coming out of a process ontology about this, aren't you? Yeah. Yeah. So definitely processes,
of course, continuous change, dynamic, and very interesting process. Whitehead is not so much
understood here in the Western world. It's a very small niche. But when you go to the Eastern world
in China or Taiwan or Japan, Whitehead is very popular. Oh, is that so? Because they have a much
better sense for this continuous change. Because here in the Western world, we say, okay, change
is opposite to non-change. Yeah. We have this all or nothing, a very logical approach,
all or nothing, either change. And the whole debate in philosophy about personal identity
is how is it possible that if something which is there over time, but my body continuously changes.
Yeah, right. Right. Shift to the thesis kind of thing. For them, it's absolutely not a problem
for them. That's why I feel often intellectually very at home over there. So the change and
non-change is an integral part. You cannot have change not without non-change and vice versa.
It's almost a dialectic Hegelian-like thing. And it's really amazing. And that's exactly
the brain work. So the question of personal identity. So there's continuous change. My brain
is no longer the same in one year than today. And in 10 years, all the nerve cells probably
have replaced each other in new cells. And the wiring is different. But I'm still feeling the
same as Georg Nottow. So now, of course, you can say, being a psychiatrist, you're Nottow,
you have an illusion. You have the delusion that you're still Georg Nottow. But that's not true.
Because we share all that experience. So I would say it's a pattern of change,
which is consistent. So that's where you have the non-change. It's a pattern.
And that's basically a development of a whitehead process, ontology. And the other thing,
which is an extension of whitehead, is these patterns and these processes are always relation.
So they're in between. It's not that I have a body and a world, but the concept of body
and world is secondary obstructions from an underlying continuous relational process.
And that process is patient.
Wonderful. So this is great. I'm glad we got to this place, because now I want to look at
some of the things we were just talking about. For example, something like depression, where you have
some sort of issue in terms of the alignment between the speed at which the body is operating
and the speed or space required by what that body is encountering, so to speak.
So could we also think of that in this pattern way? Because I think that's what I was trying
to bring up at the beginning, too. It's not that you're trying to say, here's a distinct measurement
that is always the case. But it's more like we can find patterns that, for a particular individual,
if we look at their entire trajectory, are going to be unhealthy or something like depression,
something like mania, in comparison to something like a healthy state for them, which might be
completely different from someone else in terms of speed and time experience. So can we think of it
like that, that what we're really trying to do is understand our own kind of unique patterns,
basically a temporal pattern, and how we can adjust it such that what we're encountering
isn't so slow or fast, let's say, but so overwhelming or so stimulating,
let's say, in something like depression or mania.
Yeah, I think the best one, I'll give you an example. A patient of mine,
she came and was a 16-year-old girl. She was completely mute, didn't speak at all.
And she came with her mother. Her mother was speaking normal speed, so normal speed.
And later, and of course, we were really concerned with some neurological, some bleeding,
or some tumor. It wasn't, it was just pure depression. That's an extreme syndrome,
you call it mutism, people speak in depression. And then afterwards, I ask her,
why didn't you speak? And she said, you know, I knew that my mother was speaking normal speed,
but it was too fast for me at the time. I couldn't follow, and that's why I shut up,
because I had the feeling I had nothing to say. Yeah, it was too fast for me. It was just all
very blurry, and I couldn't follow, and then a competition. Yeah, and then I think it's a nice
description of how the speed shapes her behavior. So this is a key feature of what I call spatial
temporal psychopathology, or spatial temporal psychology, or spatial temporal neuroscience,
that these temporal features, or spatial features, shape your behavior and your experiences,
and the way you behave religiously within your environmental context. That's the key thing.
It's very interesting, because like that story that you just told, she's aware of her own
spatial temporal process in a way. She's aware enough to know that she's not moving at the
speed that's required from her mother. But there's something in even just that dissonance of
not being able to keep up and kind of knowing it can also be very paralyzing and can
lead to more difficulty in these mental issues. So have you found that just pointing something
like that out to a patient like this, that that can be helpful in a way, that that can even help
them to find some kind of agency over readjusting or realigning spatiotemporarily? Yeah, yeah,
very, very good points. The first thing I would describe this dissonance is that, let's say,
imagine the other part of the iceberg slash your cognition moves and shifts relative to the lower
part. So they saw partially decoupled, which is a feasible scenario. You can have that. Yeah.
And that's exactly what happens here. And you mentioned a second point, which is a key point
for many, because the mental disorders are disorders of the lower part of the iceberg
beneath the board, meaning you have absolutely no conscious control.
It's more like that spontaneous resting state pattern, stuff that's going on all the time that
has nothing to do with whether or not you have a thought about it or something or anything like
that. Yeah. What you consciously experience is only the upper five percent tip of the iceberg.
Very tip. So we think it's everything, right? I think we have to pause there for a minute because
because that iceberg is how we first even come to understand we have cognition,
it feels like all of cognition or all of this process that you're describing. But it's really
just the very growing tip of it. And it comes often, as you've expressed with this world relation,
that it's through this interaction, for example, with your patient and her mother, that she's
starting to realize that her body, the iceberg and brain, isn't responding in the way that is
required by the mother. So there's this ongoing dynamical process, as you described, that's going
on too. But the only thing we often really recognize is the very tip. And that's why we
need something like a therapist, probably. Right. Yeah, you know, well expressed. I mean,
now look at the lower part of the iceberg, beneath the water. That is directly aligned
to the water. That's what I call world-body-brain relations. And that's exactly where mental
disorders have themselves. You see, you don't come to the psychiatrist because you have an
auditory hallucination. You come to the psychiatrist because you cannot navigate the world. Right. The
auditory hallucination is just a consequence. So you feel a strange and depression, as I already
cannot speak anymore because she can't follow her mind. That's what I call temporal spatial alignment
on the empirical side, on the ontological side, I would call it, philosophical side, I would call
this world-brain relation. I think that's amazing. So now we do a lot of research on this link of the
brain, the interface, the body and brain in its environment. It's absolutely amazing how sensitive
our brain is in tracking, let's say over one hour, it tracks the frequencies. Let's say if you present
20-second blocks, 20 seconds, every 20 seconds for one hour, your brain tracks this 20-second
interval. You see it in what is called the power spectrum of the brain, or you see it in the ways
of the brain, that they have a peak in exactly that. It's amazing how sensitive our brain is.
It makes a lot of sense just from what you've said, because to go back, we're not separating
brain, body and environment. So you have to learn to align with the spatio-temporal encounter that
you're having. I mean, that is what you do as a baby. You learn how to walk, you learn how to talk,
you learn emotions, and everyone learns it differently, developmentally. And so
all of us develop differently, good or bad, whatever you can say. But we're developing these
kind of patterns, of course, also coming with some preset, so to speak, pattern. But it's always
ongoing, right? It's not linear. I think that's part of a lot of the measurements that you use
are scale-free or complex or fractal. So you're trying to look at how all this is happening in
many different kinds of scales and levels at once. How does that translate to something like
just a patient, though? Because it gets to this mental-physical thing again, right?
What we just described of the patient having an awareness that she's not able to keep up with
her mother is what we would say is a mental problem. But it could come from this physical
development of the iceberg. And so as a doctor, as a therapist, as a philosopher, how do you know
which part of where in the scale to start to focus, to help someone? Or is it a matter of
trying to figure out their pattern, and that leads you to it?
I come back to that. First, I think you said it very nicely. You learn and develop.
And I would add, you learn and develop in an environmental context. So if you have five
siblings, oh, a very nice thing, just recently, two days ago, a patient of mine told me. So she
is a sibling and she has an identical twin. And now she told me she has a boyfriend who
has also an identical twin. Wow. And we were both laughing. It was so funny. And then she said,
you know, certain experience, I can share with you. We don't even need to talk about it. We know.
Yeah. Because they've had that. They've developed the iceberg similarly.
Yeah. And then that's the same environment. So that's why they understand me. And the way
she described it, she said, it feels so familiar and so at home with him. And also, you know,
this identical twin is very important for them. It's almost like a substitute partner.
I think a lot of us can understand that, too, though, just to really kind of zoom out here
and talk general. But that's why we find ourselves more easily attracted to certain things. You know,
we talked about you being interested in philosophy. Who knows where that came from? But somehow,
it resonated with you on some level in your development up to that point. And we all kind
of find groups where we probably are resonating based on these experiences, right? That we don't
even know that we are. Of course, we just feel good. Yeah, it just feels right. Although sometimes,
you know, you want to, you become aware of that and you start to realize, oh, maybe I'll try
something different in order to change my own spatial-temporal pattern. Two things. But you
said, how do you translate this into mental disorder and mental therapy? So one thing which
I often use is when you are over this, we said earlier that this lower part of the iceberg is a
pure dynamic, how you relate to the world is completely unconscious, meaning you have absolutely
no sense of agency. Now imagine if this alignment goes wrong, like in depression or in mania or
schizophrenia, you have even more a loss of agency. And this is a key thing. And just
explaining the patients, how does this come about? And that it is real. It is not just an illusion
what they accept. So that helps them a lot. Just understanding. It's like, imagine there's another
example, you know, when you have seizures, epilepsies, seizures, people, 100 years ago,
we didn't know that it's just some discharges, abnormal discharges in the brain. So people
were thinking, these are possessed by the devil and all kinds of things. Now we know what happens
in the brain. We know the mechanism, as we say as scientists. Yeah. And it's much easier. You can
deal with it and we find forms of intervention. And that's what I also try to do. This is really
a new thing, which hasn't come out so much, but we're really working on that. That we do
personalized diagnostic and therapy of mental disorders. So for instance, we developed a special
form of personalized, individualized breathing therapy in anxiety disorders. And we're running
larger studies and it's amazing how much it helps. And each one gets a different breathing
frequency for the training at home. And that's really makes a difference. Yeah. Because as we
say, we had, you had it earlier. What is your reference? What is your default? What is your
baseline? Your intern, that's different. You feel better with maybe a faster breathing rate than me
or vice versa and so on and forth. So meaning if you are depressed or if you are very anxious,
we will benefit from different breathing rates. So, but if you would, let's say I give you the
examples. Let's say I just say you have a breathing rate of five and usually you have a breathing rate
of 10, let's say. Yeah. So now you're seriously depressed because also your breathing is too
slow and depression can also happen. So now you would say intuitively, you would say, okay,
not of this is normal in the healthy state, breathing rate 10. Now he's depressed by five.
So I give him 10. You will see that I will not like this because the 10 is too far away from the
five, from my actual state. So you would need to give me six to make my breathing slightly faster
and pull me out of the depression. And that's exactly the kind of stuff. That's so important
that if we could find, I mean, with all this new technology and new ways of
doing data, I would hope, and I think that's what you're working on and the lab is working on,
is trying to find ways to look at these patterns as individual instead of just having this kind of
cookie cutter generalized thing, like everyone should be at a 10 or something, and then trying
to make everyone be at that. That probably causes a lot of trouble too, just for someone who's
experiencing a different time scale, a different spatial, spatio-temporal scale than their
encounter. If suddenly they're supposed to keep up with something that doesn't at all resonate
to their own pattern, it's probably going to make you even sicker, right? And it happens probably a
lot. Yeah. That's why we have also, I mean, I see we have in this breathing trial, we have patients
who suffer from severe anxiety and have been through all kinds of medication and psychotherapy.
Really, really difficult, and in many of them, the breathing gives them shambles.
It's just amazing. It's great to come back just to that
interface of the breath, because that is, like you said, you can tell a lot about your own pattern
from that, and you can start to come into a kind of awareness of it.
The other thing, again, completely amazing, we observe that the breathing pattern
also adapts to the temporal patterns in the environment. So let's say if you play a certain
rhythm, your breathing will adapt. The only way for that to be possible is it goes through the
brain, because the brain is sensitive to this rhythm and then top-down modulates the breathing.
But it's amazing. So sometimes I explain this to my patients and just say,
your brain wants to be in synchronicity with the body, with yourself, and with your environment,
and then it's happy. It's literally true. And actually, we have one large-scale study,
which we just published in December, a former postdoc of mine, Andreas Calabrini from Italy,
who is now a professor in Bergamo, and we investigated 1,000 subjects online with
visual analog scales for the experience of synchronicity with your own self, with your body,
with the environment, the nature, and with others. And then we had various other sense
of freedom of thought and various other psychological scales. But what the study
really showed, the core, then we did a complex network analysis, the core of our psychological
life is the synchronicity, synchronicity with yourself, synchronicity with the body, synchronicity
with the other, synchronicity with nature. It's amazing. And then we also observed that subjects
who had a lower synchronicity index of this had a higher rate of anxiety and depression.
So it's like synchronicity within all these fractal scales. It's not some linear kind
of synchronicity. Exactly. Yeah. It's really amazing. So you really want to be in tune.
You always want to be embedded. You want to be part of the wider environment, and then you feel
comfort. This can be very difficult for us to understand because we're all at different levels
of awareness of our own patterns. I guess that's something that therapy can help you become
aware, but it can also be very scary in the same way that breathing, meditation can be,
for most of us, it's very beneficial. But for some, it can be frightening to suddenly
become aware of yourself in a certain way. If you're sensitized at a different decibel,
then those around you, something like schizophrenia, because often they're so
identified with their illusion that you can't really get that kind of scale separation between
the tip of the iceberg and the iceberg. Yeah. So what we're trying to do in
psychiatry, we're doing a different kind of spatial temporal disturbances for different
disorders. So you already heard that consider depression and mania as speed disorders as
store sloth. So what is schizophrenia? That, of course, is a difficult one. So what we observe
in schizophrenia is that they have a high degree of temporal imprecision in the millisecond range.
So you observe, let's say, you have continuous waves, they fluctuate, and in schizophrenia,
they fluctuate in a very disorder. So they have sudden shifts. So imagine
a very wild sea with a lot of storm. Yeah. So suddenly you have a wave here, you have a wave
here, you have a wave here, and the waves are no longer coordinated. And you can really observe
this in the millisecond range in the brain, which is something we showed in the last two,
three years. And another major paper just came out on this. And now how is this temporal? So
let's say, imagine you perceive me, but in your visual regions in the brain, the activity is
slightly unstable and oscillating and fluctuating in what you probably would say unstable and
disordered chaotic patterns. Then you will perceive me also in a chaotic way. So meaning,
you have absolutely no idea why not. Let's say, imagine you see as I move a lot with my hands,
yeah, and I know- Yeah, even your computer is moving around.
And now imagine that you perceive not the timing of this movement, because if you're right,
you perceive my hand as something like this or strange. So of course you have no idea what it
means. And then you search for the meaning and you become insecure. And then all the other stuff
develops. Yeah. And in your experience, so you have sudden shifts. Yeah. You have sudden shifts
in your ongoing neuronal activity or the phase cycles. And how do you experience that? That's
what they often experience as fragmentation, temporal fragmentation. So now I like to use
the example of a river. So usually the river is flowing. Flowing is nice and smooth. Now imagine
you throw some big rocks into the river. So suddenly the water is coming up, it becomes
turbulent, and then it tries to find a way around it. That's the situation it's in. A lot of rocks
into the river. I think that makes sense on a lot of levels. So does that mean that the state,
the kind of pattern, let's say, in the way that we've been talking, the spatiotemporal pattern
that one is living in could suddenly shift to a completely different level, decibel setting,
channel, so to speak? How would that stuff that you just described, how do you see how that would
explain? Is it just that the chaos can suddenly click into a different level of spatiotemporal
pattern? Yeah. I mean, so first just imagine you have a river which is flowing steadily.
You feel calm, you feel good, you feel embedded. Now imagine you have a river like this with a lot
of rocks and very nervous. You also become nervous and uncertain. So same thing. You don't
want to look at that turbulent river for a long time. You can't take it anymore. That's exactly
what happens in the psychotic or schizophrenia. And then you try to find an explanation of what
is going on. You try to replace that with some certainty, and then you come up with these
delusions and hallucinations and so on and so forth. Because you look for certainty. It is
literally the world. We have a paper where the world breaks down. Your alignment is not only
too slow or fast. It completely breaks down. You cannot make sense intuitively anymore. Here,
let's say, of this cup or why I now show this cup and how that is related to my speech. Because
you perceive the cup as completely different from what I'm talking because you cannot link the two
because of your chaos and turbulence in your brain. And then you say, yeah, why is he not
at all there anymore? Probably he wants to kill me with it. Yeah, but I think there's some kind
of collapse too. And just to go to this metaphor that you've been using of the iceberg, and then
you have the levels, the tip, the part that you can see. Somehow it feels like the person no
longer has a part. They can see that they've just collapsed into whatever that defense mechanism
story is or something. So it's interesting because this fractal stuff that you describe,
it almost feels like it sort of leaps into a different state space or something. But it's
solid. It's not that they're questioning it. There's no questioning really happening in those
episodes. Yeah, no. I mean, I think your brain has remarkable plasticity, flexibility. I like to speak
of reorganization. You have a topographic or spatial and a dynamic organization of you.
And that can be trained, for instance, in meditation. You have a real proficient
meditator. The brain of proficient meditators has a different spatial pattern and structure
than those of naïve or non-meditators. And in mental disorders too. You have a topographic
and spatial reorganization of your brain and henceforth also your relation to body and environment.
So your whole spatial temporal perception in relation to the world changes. And all functions
are affected. Your emotions, your cognitions, your motor behavior, your social cognition,
and naïve. And your sense of self. There's a lot that we could talk about this continuity of
spatial temporal patterns and how a self develops. And that would also kind of make sense with all
of these different disorders of, I guess the self could be all of, would you think it's the iceberg
and the tip of the iceberg? Or is it just this tip of the iceberg? It's neither. It's how the
iceberg is situated relative to the seaside. That's your point of view. Yeah, the water just
like that's your perspectiva which you take onto the water. But you're embedded within the
water. So you see I have an explicitly relational or neuroecological concept of sense of self.
Very important. Higher order functions. Very basic. Yeah. Self is not a higher order function. Self is
more or less the body's alignment with the encounter. With the context.
How the iceberg is positioned relative to the water, to the sea. So I'm now positioned here
in sixth floor of the institute at work. That's now my state of self. And I have a nice view here
for the audience. Oh, very nice. Yeah. Okay. But now when I would step down,
I would have a slightly different point of view and slightly change. And my experience of myself
would change. Most people wouldn't understand that the space changes. Like you having that amazing
view does something for your mental health in these traditional ways. But what you talk about
in NeuroWaves is time. And this is very interesting because we don't often think of how time spaces,
time spaces, so to speak, change our mentality. But it's too much for us to really unpack fully
right now. But if we start to think of these patterns as spatio-temporal, so it's not only
the spaces that we are developing in and through in our brain activity, but it's also time and
the temporality, I think it gets a little to what you were describing with the dancing.
Yeah, but dance is a very good example. So you align and synchronize your own inner space and
your own inner time to the space of the music. And when you ask musicians, my partner is a composer,
we have a lot of musicians. And when you ask pianists, their piano playing is strongly dependent
upon the hall in the space. And the way they situate themselves in that hall.
So the older pianists were extremely sensitive,
and tried to get used to the hall and get a feeling for the conductors. Because for singers,
they call it projection, how you project into the hall. Your voice sounds completely different,
the same voice sounds different in a small room versus a large room. Huge import, this is what
called projection, how much goes. So it's a key thing. And that tells you that the voice
of the musician is always a prior relationship to your environmental space, what is going on
time-wise. Because otherwise, you wouldn't have that perception. So like a musician, your partner,
or even an actress or someone, when we talk about timing, it's somehow also a matter of reading
the room too. So it's all connected. I think I once heard you say that your early interest
in understanding the brain and all these things we've been talking about in terms of psychiatry
and neuroscience and illness and health, was to understand what causes distortions of the brain.
And I wonder where that came from? Have you had personal experience? Is it just curiosity?
What was that? Is that still motivating you? What's that motivation in your life?
So we started initially with I'm a brain-mind researcher, but I probably should have better
said, I could also say I'm a researcher of subjectivity. So everything which is subjectivity
so fascinating for me, and you don't see it, but I'm more than fascinated than ever, particularly
now where I have the feeling I have a better grip on things. It took me 20, 30 years to develop
all this, isn't it? Basically long time, no idea, but now I have the feeling maybe I'm right.
And there's a lot of data and conceptual stuff, and now also other people take it over worldwide,
which is very nice. And wow, this is a really different way of analyzing the same data and
conceiving it makes sense and the data supports it. So it's now basically, I finally, after so
many years, I think I bought maybe the right puzzle, and now I have to put the pieces of
the puzzle together. So it took me, I did 30 years of puzzle shopping, putting data into it.
That's a lot of persistence.
Now I finally have the puzzle, and I say, wow, now I have a play tool. And now I put the pieces
of the puzzle in, and sometimes I go, how stupid are you? And then it makes perfect sense. So it's
really amazing. So it's probably the most exciting time in my life as a researcher.
And it's really this, if you ask me, is it curiosity, is it knowledge? Of course,
in your life way, you have a lot of personal encounters, and you see a lot. But it's really
the curiosity. I mean, for me, when it comes down to what for me, why I do this, I'm just curious.
And for me, every day where I get some sort of new insight, some knowledge, that makes me very
happy. If I can understand something and just process by itself, and now if I can also use it
to help some of these psychiatric patients where the clinical situation is dire, I mean, it's a
catastrophe. Psychiatry is completely lagging behind the other medical disciplines. So that's
why we develop all these different personalized therapies now. That's for me, it's beautiful.
And that's what motivates me. And if you have the feeling, sometimes I'm in very good moments,
very rare moments, but sometimes maybe I'm really knocking on nature's door.
And that feeling, there's no publication in the top genre can ever close.
Such a nice feeling. It's beautiful. And maybe if I'm right, of course, I might be wrong with all
the special temple stuff, but if I'm right, the implications are huge. And that's just wonderful
understanding of how nature works. So I become more and more an admirer of nature. And that's
why this climate change really hurts. Yeah. Well, I mean, do you see your research, you talk about
neuroecological and environment, and these aren't separate from everyday urgencies, are they? I mean,
if we think of space and time as being so foundational in terms of our patterns,
no matter if we think of them as measurements or we think of them, we didn't get into it,
I wanted to ask you about how you really conceive of space and time. Is it absolute? Are we in a
container? Is it a theater? But regardless of all that, what you're doing is prioritizing that
everyone has a unique spatiotemporal pattern, to put it very generally. And if that were really
taken seriously, and we took it seriously for all beings in the world, that'd be a big change
ecologically. Yeah. See, I have these students from all over the world, and so I get all these
different cultures to see where they come from. And I mean, for instance, people from the north,
Canada is a northern country, let's face it, we have winters with minus 30, minus 40, long winters,
five, six months. That shapes your mental state a completely different way than when you grow up in
Italy. Yeah. It's unbelievable. And you see similar differences in northern and southern China.
So your climate, your geography has a strong impact on your mind. And how is that possible?
Because you were in a line to the spatiotemporal pattern of environmental ecological context.
So I do think that these kinds of climate changes we had here last year,
May, June, it was horrendous, all these wildfires. And we had really
doomsday scenarios, everything was yellow. Oh, gosh, yeah. That, of course, changes.
If that occurs more often, then that changes your mental state. Absolutely. Yeah. And
that's how adapted our brain is. It's incredible. Yeah, it adapts, but to almost like a disease
state. I was driving to New York during that time, I remember, and I was visiting family and yeah,
it's very clear sign that we are not separate from all that is going on around us and that
maybe there's a way in which we can start to understand all these different patterns and how
we're kind of co-creating each other in a very serious way. So I have to just ask, I mean,
this is called love and philosophy. So how do you see that word? When you were talking,
I was thinking about this flow state that somebody like your partner probably feels when they're
really, I don't know what it is, but when you're at one with the music and the instrument
and so on, I guess we kind of have that. You can have that in science too, like what's motivated
you to persist and 30 years build this part by part, come up with your theory. Is it something
like, can't we talk about that word or is it only? It's curiosity. It's novelty thinking. It's
trying to understand, as I said. So academic life can be very busy and you have a lot of demands
becoming increasing and you have to do this, you have to sit here, you have to leadership a commission
and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And at some point in my life, I really broke down everything
and I said, okay, what is really what motivates you? What do I really want to do? I want to
understand. I want to do the research. And then since then I cut everything down and I just do
this and I'm really a very happy person. Yeah. And I think that's the curiosity and the curiosity
started for me with philosophy. Yeah. And I'm still, I'm always amazed how much philosophical
conceptual issues enter into even very tiny little empirical details or lab meetings and
you know, this go always back and forth like a pendulum between really empirical, tiny little
detail. And then suddenly a conceptual issue comes up and it's amazing. And yeah, I mean,
our brain is simply too limited just to have a conceptual or a scientific or empirical approach.
You need both because we're too limited. I mean, this is really goes, of course, back to one of my
favorite philosophers is Immanuel Kant. I mean, I paraphrase it a little bit. Empirical research
without models and philosophy is blind and philosophy without science is empty.
Yeah. And I think it's really, it speaks that we cannot use just one method. We need a
complementarity of methods targeted on the same question. So that's why I consider my different
disciplines background is nothing special. It's just different method. And I use whatever methods
which can help me to understand subjectivity, neuro-mental transitions, brain minds,
disorders. So I think that's, that's really key. And yeah, that's this research and there's a little
bit also, let's say call it a wide research because it doesn't always go the pre-established
very assembly lines of research and the usual topic, which editors now try to basically pre-define
and what are the odd questions. It's a little bit what you call outside the box, but even that is
used as a category. So I wouldn't like to apply that either. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's very
important. You just need to, it's like a little kid. So imagine a little kid playing on the street
and trying out this, trying out that, trying out here and all the ball flies there. And when I
kick the ball, it comes this and then I'll do this. This is science. This is the original idea of
science is crying out. Yeah. And we forgot that. And I really became aware of that dimension of
science in the case of when the COVID vaccines were together. So suddenly we had no idea. So
usually we think, okay, so it's like a factory. It produces assembly line and every minute a new
knowledge is coming out like a car on the assembling line. No, science is trying it out. It's playing
around. We don't know. That's what science is. And when you see the development of the COVID
vaccine, I went a lot into that because it was a typical example. And it's trying out, okay,
there's a problem. Okay, we need to try this one. We need to try this one. We need to try this one.
Okay, maybe this one works. Okay, why doesn't either of these work? Or maybe we forgot something.
Okay, then you need to test for that one. And it goes on like that. That's science.
I'm so glad you said that because that's a perspective that's so important. And I think
it does connect to this love of knowledge or this motivating force that I was trying to touch on
that you did get back to this curiosity and you did ask yourself, because you do have a
lot of energy and you are very motivated to study all this stuff and do all this research.
It takes a lot because it's really serious stuff and it's a lot of different disciplines. It's not
easy to master all of that or even get to the point where you can discuss it coherently.
But it's wonderful that you say it's about this. It's about trying things out because
I feel like we need to remember that in science and philosophy that we don't have the answers.
It's about trying it rather than trying to fit into all these other already established
possibilities for answers where we're not really in that spirit that you just described anymore.
But I know you must come up against a lot of resistance because
you're trying to do things differently than the way everyone's kind of stuck doing them
can be really hard. Or do you just not look at that and you just kind of continue ahead?
Oh, I had a lot of resistance. It hurt me very much because I didn't understand where the
resistance is coming from. So the good thing is I learned to understand the presuppositions,
why they became resistant, why they resist. So for instance, when your papers are rejected and
they say, okay, your spatial temporal approach and you're so proud of it and then it comes back,
rejected, it's completely trivial what you're doing, that hurts. But the way out of it is saying,
you say, okay, maybe why do they say it's trivial? So now I understand my opponents very well. So
it's easier for me. And now I'm a little bit in a... It's getting better. So I think that
time speaks for me. Also, I see a lot of young people coming to us. I can see a lot of people
taking this up. So I think the time is speaking for me. Usually you wouldn't say this as a scientist
in my age. And I'm more than excited than ever. So I feel almost like a little kid who finally got
his tools and can play around and say, now I can finally, now I can get up and walk around and can
make a mess in this kitchen and find out how the kitchen works before I couldn't walk, let's say,
when I'm one and a half years old. So sometimes I feel a little bit like that. So for me, it's...
You know, it's very easy to get bitter. It's very hard because it's really tough. I mean,
in the science world, you're really supposed to publish a certain quota and you're really
supposed to fit into certain things. And you get a lot of negative feedback just as part of the
course. Like that's part built into the process, much less if you're doing something new, which
scares people. Yeah. But still, you see how in my way, I have a certain television. Of course,
I'm still very open. But now, particularly now, because I think maybe we really hit it on
something, we lock on nature still. And that, of course, is so fascinating. And yeah, as I said,
I'm also lucky I get a lot of clever students coming from all over the world, which is also
very nice. And that really motivates. Yeah. Yeah, I think it does. And you have a good atmosphere
that you let people explore what they're good at. But also, I mean, you are keeping things
very scientific. So it's not just this kind of, everyone just explore their ideas. But in a lab
meeting, it's incredibly scientific. You could hardly understand half the stuff going on because
it's so mathematical. And like, you know, it's wonderful. But there's all these new theories
and ideas and tools that everyone understands. All the students are really quite, they have a lot
of skills and skills, like very practical skills, whether it's coding, whether it's mathematical,
whatever. But then it does, there is always a moment where it touches on these bigger issues,
which I think is very important for all of us as students, as teachers, as whatever we are,
because trying to forget that that motivation is part of why we're doing it can result in
perhaps some spatiotemporal problems, right, for us in the way that we're discussing.
So I have the association now of a dance. I think it's a good example. So dancers, they need to do
a lot of physics. I mean, you can't imagine how much they have to start learning.
So much training, yeah.
A lot of training, but the real purpose is expressing the music. So once they have the
good physical training, then they really can start doing art. Before it's just a craft mention.
But then they can do art. So same here. So just having some skills and applying them in a
mechanical way doesn't mean that you're a scientist. You have the skills and then you can play around
and then you can start doing science. And I think we often confuse it these days because
it's so message driven. Okay, you have a message. Now you apply the message and that paper publish,
boom, PhD, boom, boom, boom. Yeah, but that's not science starts. Then when you think you are
finished, then you need to think how can you use this method? What does this method might imply
about the brain and what does not? And maybe I need some other methods for my question.
And maybe the method also gives me an idea of what kind of question I can ask. So suddenly I
see a new question. This is the most exciting moment for me when some of my clever students
bring in a new idea. Bingo, let's do that. I mean, that's fantastic. So you see how method
and target question are intertwined, but they're not the same.
That's beautiful. It's almost like a craft. Think of science almost like as a,
you really have, even the way you described it, all these years of almost like apprenticeship
where you're really learning, but you're learning towards an action too. And sometimes that action
is, it is like a dance, right? I mean, in the best moments in science, they do feel like the best
moments when you're dancing or when you're running or when you're, you know, there's a similar,
there's something similar there. Yeah, I do a lot of running. I have my
flow feeling, but sometimes also. Do you meditate? No, I don't. Running is my meditation.
Running is your meditation. That's my meditative like state. So for me, meditation sitting there
and doing would not be the right time of induction. Exactly. That's your spatio-temporal pattern
wouldn't align well with that. But running, it's almost like you get to the same space.
Does that ground you in your science? Like, can you feel that? Yeah, so the
running is very, because here, so I run, of course, for the sake of running, but also for
the sake of nature, because here in Ottawa and Canada, the nature can be really beautiful.
And I enjoy this. And then I really become part of the nature. It's just unbelievable.
Yeah. You feel at one with it or something. Do you think of it as aligning spatio-temporally?
Yeah, exactly. It feels like that, doesn't it?
Yeah. There's no difference anymore between you and the nature.
Yeah. Which is kind of what meditation is trying to do too. You get to a place where you forget
yourself, but you're completely aware of yourself. That's some strange thing.
Yeah. They call this non-dual awareness. Exactly. Yeah. There's many ways to that.
You've also situated yourself in a place that has a lot of checks and balances regarding what we
just talked about, because you're doing the empirical work, study, you're thinking about
it philosophically, you have all these people around you doing both, but you're also literally
still in touch with patients. So I did want to add that to that. I think that must also help
in all these ways that we've been talking about in terms of making new discoveries and also
not taking the rejection too seriously, because you're not sitting only on the sixth floor
thinking about all these things. You're really enacting them too.
Yeah. It's a nice thing. So somebody asked me where I get my ideas from the two main sources.
Are the philosophy and the patients. So my neuroscience can be understood from those two
angles. And if you don't have that background, you will add a half-time understanding. Yeah.
Because a lot is coming from the subjective experience of the patients and from the
philosophy background. And you see how my favorite philosophers, some of them are clear.
Tell me about some of your favorite philosophers.
The philosophy block. Yeah. So obviously I have the expert, of course, is clear,
already knows, and for me indispensable. So when I read, so I read the critique of pure reason,
everybody reads it differently. As an attempt to bring together the logical and the natural world,
he uses terms like synthesis, which is of course a term of the natural world,
and he uses concepts and categories, which are concepts and logical.
And the way he tries to do this, to be honest, I think ultimately fails.
Okay. It's just amazing. I mean, this is, so for me, good philosophy is not the answers,
it's the questions you try to address. Because you find new questions which are lurking behind
the curtain slash the phenomenon. Yeah. And a little bit, I tried to do the same with,
I shipped the question from the relationship of mind and body to the one of world and brain,
because I think I can address the former better with them. Yeah. So that, I think,
the current is just unbelievable. Of course, the Descartes is a fantastic philosopher,
I think always bashing him as a dualist is unshared. Many people say that I'm very close
in my thinking to Spinoza, which is very interesting, but I don't have that much
background by Spinoza. And Aristotle is, of course, is always strong philosophy for me,
more than Plato. Obviously, that's clear. I'm too much of a natural world person than a logical
person. Another philosopher from whom I did actually all my master's thesis and everything
about was Husserl. Husserl, of course, was a phenomenology. And what I admire in Husserl
is his development. So he started with some logical investigations. Now I know a little
bit for the expert, but, and then he really developed all the concepts to the lifelike.
So he constantly asked new questions. So then I really admire that. Throughout life, he
constantly put himself into new position and relativizing and searched further. I love that.
It's for me, this is, I respect that a lot. A person whom I personally don't like, but
his questions are good as Heidegger. It's clear why I'm saying that being in the world,
I think that's true, but I think there's also a lot of metaphorical things. And I think there
needs to be more philosophical substance, but it aligns really well with some of my ideas.
And then you may wonder, contemporary philosophers is Thomas Nagel. I think he's really read in the
wrong way. He's much deeper and much more sophisticated than he's made in analytic
philosophy. Sorry to say, I'm not really a big fan of analytic philosophy anymore,
because it's just too narrow and too sterile. And even if they talk about empirical data,
they do it in a logical sense. Philosophers are completely from a different angle. Contemporary
is MacDowell. I don't always agree with that. But the idea of the logical space,
sellers, logical space of nature, logical space of reason, how MacDowell tries to link them,
but he comes, of course, from the logical end. I would say, no, no, no, you need a
spatial temple space of nature. Yeah. So that I think, but this is good. And then,
so I think Searle, not as much appreciated as Nagel, but I think also he raises some good
questions. And then I was actually, because of my Taiwan and Chinese connection, I have
a very strong connection there. I also have a very good friend who is also a very good friend of mine.
He introduced me to Chinese philosophy and Zhang Jie, the old Zhang Jie Taoist philosopher.
It's amazing. And he even wrote a paper, which is only published in Chinese, but not in English.
About the Copanican revolution in philosophy in Pant, in Heidegger, in Whitehead, and in Zhang Jie.
It's only in Chinese available. And I think that sheds a light on the state of philosophy
in the Western world. So many know him. Zhang Jie is an old Taoist philosopher, goes back to
the, about the ancient Greek time in China. And he has some beautiful,
yeah, they have always these metaphorical stories.
The butterfly, the dream of the butterfly, some people might know.
Oh yeah, of course.
The blue fish.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
And he has many stories. So it's really amazing. And I think he really, and that's why he's,
for me, so amazing. He really understood how man is integrated, embedded as part of nature.
When you go to Beijing, there's a temple of heaven.
And that's basically the connection to nature. And even the emperor bowed in front of this temple.
So this nature, and the Chinese, they never came up with the idea of a separate world,
a purely logical world, because we were embedded as part of the natural world.
So that's for me really, so it's really ecological ontology, as some people describe my ontology,
my special type of ontology. So it's amazing. And that's why I say this is very important because
they understand how to view humans or man from the viewpoint of the world and the nature.
So a non-anthropocentric view, because whereas the Western and the European-centric people
always view world and nature from the perspective of humans. It's a very anthropocentric thing.
And that, of course, goes back. That's, for me, the quest for the Copernican Revolution.
So that's why I'm crazy about this. And in my 2018 book, The Sportandius Brain,
I wrote part of the Copernican Revolution. And this paper where I compare these Kant,
Weichert, Heidegger, and Janssen is exactly about the Copernican Revolution.
That's only in Chinese though?
It's only in Chinese. Of course, I have an English version. But I think it reflects upon what's going
on in Western philosophy that I cannot publish things like that in this part of the book.
Yeah. It reminds me of something else I put down for us to talk about what we didn't quite get to
is this point of view. I feel like that's such an important concept, and I think it's in Spontaneous
Brain that you really unpack it. It's something I think about a lot too in my work. How do we get
outside of this spatiotemporal pattern? And, of course, we do it through telescopes, through
microscopes, through books, through movies. That's what we're always trying to do is share these
other scales of view. Do you see that as fractal? Do you see us as learning from each other and
developing towards something new? I mean, maybe that's kind of part of what you're trying to do
with your work too is take all these positions, look at all these positions, look from these
positions. I think it's very interesting that you said Hussle and this phenomenological tradition
is important to you because that goes back to that subjectivity of really what you said motivated
you is trying to understand. And you do. You're always trying to understand what is the self
and how can we understand another self. I don't know. I'm saying a lot of things, but I wonder
how you think of all this because it can feel very linear and either or. And this is like about
beyond dichotomies. So how do you see, is your work fractalizing some of that? I mean, first,
I would say just we are one fractal within the many structures of nature. And we are like just
one little rotten doll among the many. One little Chinese crystal ball within among the very
many structures of nature. I mean, you see me smiling. So this is what we are, not more and not
less. Which is wonderful, but yes. I try to bring out and see my work is really, if you want to
correct me, I'm against dichotomies because they're based, yet they logically justify dichotomy. Yes,
if you have a purely logical point of view, yes. But in the natural world, you do not have
dichotomies. You have continua, you have gradation, and that's key for nature. Otherwise,
still the natural world, now speaking to philosophy, cannot be completely one-to-one
equated with a logical one. And that means that a purely logical conceptual methodology
will remain insufficient to grasp the natural world. You need to combine it. That's what I mean by
non-reductive universal philosophy. That's basically a method, a systematic method,
how to link science and philosophy in a systematic way. That's basically what I'm
doing. And what I'm doing with that is, from my point of view, nothing new. When you go back to
the 19th century, Schopenhauer, I forgot Schopenhauer, one of my favorite philosophers,
Bauer is crazy. Schopenhauer, you read his papers, his books, everything goes into biology,
into chemistry, and wrote a whole thing about the earthquake in Lisbon. Leibniz, of course,
goes without saying, mathematics, Descartes. That's where I see myself in that tradition.
But that has been lost in the 20th century because since philosophy thought it has
itself distinguished from the science, and then it completely went on the logical track,
slash, analytic philosophy. Yeah, and we're still separation.
Yeah, it's like we've taken language or this representations that we use to communicate about
the world as the world itself in some weird way. I agree with you about analytic philosophy.
It can be very good to study for critical thinking. I think it can be even essential.
Everyone should probably have to learn how to think critically, and analytic philosophy does
that. But just to get stuck in there, and that becomes the whole landscape in which problems
need to be solved, it feels very reductive. Yeah, I think it's a confusion between method
and problem, between method and question. If you take the question problem to be
identically conversive method, that's the way you end up. It's just one method to address it.
And that kind of gets back to what I was trying to get at at the very beginning about
the way that we think of all these terms like mind and brain and space and time.
There's a way in which we can unstick from all that and see all of those things as something
like language or like representations that we've been using. Of course, if you take any one point
of view, you could probably find an opposite from that kind of point of view. But we're trying to
zoom out and understand there's always these fractal many, many nested, as a word you use a lot,
points of view. And how can we start to understand that even though we use something like dichotomy
or dualism or analytic philosophy to help us think better and understand the world,
it's not like the territory, it's the map. Well, thanks so much for all of this. But is there
anything else before we go? Yeah, we did. All right. Well, thanks so much, Georg.
You're welcome.
