our brain is not in here. It's always between me, my body and the environment.
You don't come to the psychiatrist because you have an auditory hallucination.
You come to the psychiatrist because you cannot navigate the world. The core of our psychological
life is the synchronicity, synchronicity with yourself, synchronicity with the body, synchronicity
with the other, synchronicity with nature. It's amazing. We are one fractal within the many
fractals of nature. In the natural world, you do not have dichotomies. You have continual,
you have gradation, and that's key for nature. Hello, everyone. Welcome back. This is a research
podcast where we delve into all kinds of subjects relative to how we make our way in the world.
We talk about what we love, about life, about learning, about books, about the different
paths we've been on, about some pretty deep subjects and ideas relative to the mind,
relationships, challenges, inspirations, all these shared landscapes, and we try to do it beyond the
traditional divisions that we're told we should keep in terms of what does or does not fit together
or what should or should not be said in certain contexts. On that note, today we're talking about
space and time and the brain and some ways of thinking about brain activity and the relationship
between the body and the world and the brain through spatiotemporal patterns, even thinking
of self almost as a spatiotemporal pattern, and as you can imagine, that can be a controversial idea,
but our guest today, Dr. Georg Nordhoff, has studied it from many angles. He's a philosopher,
he's a neuroscientist, he's a psychiatrist, he has degrees in all those disciplines. He's from
Germany, but Ottawa, the University of Ottawa, recruited him to head the mind, brain, and
neuroethics research unit at the Royals Institute of Mental Health Research. So he's working with
patients every day relative to different mental health challenges, which he also tries to
understand from a neuroscientific experimental angle, and which he also tries to understand as
a philosopher coming out of the German tradition, phenomenology, but also, as you'll hear, heavily
steeped in Kant and Schopenhauer. He's made researches between the different neuro and
biochemical mechanisms that might be related to these big ideas of consciousness and self.
In this conversation, we talk about what it might mean for all of us to have some sort of unique
spatio-temporal pattern, and how that might be expressed in the brain, or the body, or the world.
Perhaps the pace of our own bodies and what we're surrounded in isn't always aligned.
Sometimes depression feels like it's a very slow thing, or mania feels very fast, and then there's
also, we don't talk about it here, but there's other research that I've talked about in other
conversations relative to psychedelics, where people like to say that brain activity slows down,
or there's less of it. There's so much activity in the brain, depends on what we're looking at,
but there are studies showing that the different brain networks become less synchronized, for
example, or ones that show less distinct activity, and there's changes in terms of how the participants
who are taking the psilocybin perform the task relative to that brain activity. So there's
definitely something going on spatio-temporally with brain activity. In any case, it's just very
interesting to think about space and time, two of my favorite subjects, but in terms of patterns,
when we sort of measure those, and how this ongoing moving life that is our brain and our body and the
world can be measured spatio-temporally towards understanding the mind or consciousness. We talk
about in the end of this conversation how this idea has been controversial, and he's had to go
through many, many years studying it, doing all this research, and the persistence of having a
career in science, of trying to look at things from a different point of view, whether right or
wrong, just trying to find other ways of thinking so as to lead to hopefully breakthroughs for those
who suffer. We talk about how important nature is, he's a runner, and what that sort of does to the
spatio-temporal flow, different kinds of philosophy from different parts of the world, and how some of
this makes more sense to certain parts of the world than to others. We talk about how consciousness
is like an iceberg with some of it submerged underwater, some of it above water, and what this
kind of example might tell us relative to the waves in the ocean, as Nordov talks about. We
talk about fractals, and the fractals of nature, and the fractals of all of these different
measurements of trying to understand consciousness and mind and the body. We talk about subjectivity
and how important it is to try to look at all of this from an individual point of view.
So it's kind of a heavy conversation in some ways, but also gets to some really just everyday normal
ways of trying to understand our life and how we're affected. So I hope you enjoy it. I'm really
glad you're here. If you want to support love and philosophy, there's many ways to do that.
I'll link to Nordov's lab and to his books if you want to explore more about spatio-temporal
neuroscience. It's a work in progress, but the basic idea is focusing on spatial temporal
patterns when we try to understand mind and consciousness, which I don't know about you,
but to me that sounds like a really fascinating idea. Something worth exploring and risking being
wrong to find how that might actually be right or apply to our life in ways that could help us
with some of the issues that we face about mind and consciousness. Alright, I hope you're doing
well out there wherever you're making your way. Hi Georg, welcome to Love and Philosophy. It's
so nice to see you. Yeah, hello. Nice to see you again. So I already know you and your work,
but for those who don't, would you say you're a neuroscientist, philosopher,
psychiatrist, all of the above? Well, I think I would all do all three. I'm a brain-mind
researcher, so I'm interested in exactly that interface. So if you want to basically
have one label, it's a brain-mind researcher. Great. That's kind of why I ask because actually
what you're doing is sort of transcending those dichotomies a bit, but I wonder how did you get
interested in these subjects? Which one came first, if one came first? Yeah, good question. So I had
a very good philosophy teacher in high school and who really got me interested into philosophy.
But then, of course, the question arises, what do you want to study? So I wanted to study philosophy,
obviously, but I didn't want to study philosophy just alone. I wanted to study this particular,
with another more specific discipline. Of course, in a strong candidate, of course,
mathematics, physics. Another candidate, slightly different, is law. And the third candidate is,
of course, neuroscience. And at the time, strangely so, there were no neuroscience programs
available in Germany. And that was just 30 years ago, so it wasn't that long ago.
And so then in order to get into the brain, you had to study medicine.
And yeah, and that's the way then I studied medicine. And of course, in doing the medicine,
it's very clinical, it's not so much scientific, and I also added the neuroscience to it.
What was in the early philosophy class before we get to the other part? Do you remember what it is,
what sparked your interest? Understanding the world, I would say, and understanding what is behind
the appearances. So that's, of course, already a very Kantian formulation of appearance reality.
But it's really what is behind, what are the presuppositions, what happens behind,
that always drove me, yeah, to look beyond the curtain, or behind the curtain, if you want to
say. How did you realize there was a curtain? Of course, in the moment you get entangled,
and you can't find an exit. And then you try to move, and there's something there, and
there's some discrepancies. And for me, philosophical question, for me, philosophy is,
see, I consider these three disciplines as different methods, as different methods.
You have a conceptual, logical method in philosophy, you have an empirical driven
method in the sciences, in the neuroscience, in the clinical, you have more sort of a clinical,
phenomenological, subjective approach. And for me, these are different methods. And that's why
I'm saying I would consider myself a brain-mind researcher who uses these three different methods.
And of course, now I also use computational stuff, from engineering and physics and
artificial intelligence. Yeah, so for me, these are just methods focusing on one and the same
problem and question from different angles, with different terms often, but then you have to
translate. So you got a PhD in philosophy, a PhD in neuroscience, your medical degree,
am I missing anything? There's another one in there somewhere. Right, and then the psychiatry,
I'm also a licensed psychiatrist. Yeah. So, okay, I want to push you a little bit because
your work, you do try to move away from this mind-brain dichotomy, but you just said you're
researching brain and mind. So do you really think of them as separate or are you using these words
in the kind of traditional way that they're used? Or like, how do you really see that?
Good question. Of course, I mean, I think it's really, at least for my generation,
the question I consider that every generation grows up with a certain question. At the beginning
of the 20th century, the people grow up with a physics question. So probably I would have ended
up as a physicist. Then in the middle of century, biology and genetics research, probably if I had
gone up at that time, maybe I would have gone into that direction. But in my time, and it started
with Papa Eccles, The Brain and Itself, other books in that time. And yeah, so I think I sort
of naturally got into that. And so officially, of course, it's what you call the brain-mind
or mind-brain problem. But you can deal with problems in different ways. So first, you can
just provide an answer. And okay, you take the question at face value and take it seriously
and say, okay, I want to provide an answer. And that's what I see in the current philosophy of
mind that is formulated in the heart problem by David Chalmers and all the neuroscience,
for instance, of consciousness. However, then you can also have another approach. You can either say,
you can resolve the problem, meaning there is no problem. You can just say, okay,
swim it away. Yeah, naturalizes or just say, eliminate it. And that's what I understood
is a little bit done by, for instance, the Churchland and the neurophilosophy. And I would
call this sort of reductive approach. And then you can say, okay, maybe you can step literally
behind the curtain and say, maybe I just solve the problem and shift it to another question.
So that's where basically, of course, it's like you look for the presuppositions hidden behind
the question for the mind-brain relationship. And that's sort of a transcendental like methodology,
if you want to say so, going back to concepts. And that's the approach I'm doing, because I think
you can say, okay, in order to raise the question for the relationship of brain and mind,
both should be conceivable and plausible. And I'm thinking here of logical possibilities,
logical conceivability, not actual reality. So that's very important here. So it's a deliberate
philosophical move here. And then I say, yes, there's a logical conceivability that there is
a mind as distinguished from the brain. And then you can answer, then you can, based on that,
you can raise the question, how are mind and brain related? However, if you now say, okay,
the assumption of the mind may be logically conceivable, but not empirically plausible,
then you might get into problems with your question, how are mind and brain related to each
other? So in what I'm doing in my 2018 books, a spontaneous brain from the mind-body to the
world problem, basically saying, yes, the mind is logically, the assumption of the mind is
logically conceivable. It's a logical conceivability. So the mind-body problem,
the question for the mind-body problem is a very plausible and feasible question within the logic.
Now, I go back to the natural world and say, is the assumption of mind empirically plausible?
Or can it be, is there something else which is more plausible than the assumption of the mind?
And the answer to my, probably we'll come later to that in the interview, is yes, maybe the world
brain relationship can also explain mental features, and that's more empirically plausible.
So I try to dissolve the problem. I don't try to answer the problem of mind-brain. I don't try to
resolve it or eliminate it, but I try to dissolve it and shift it to another problem.
This kind of gets to notions of space and time, because that, in all that you just said,
you also developed this idea of spatio-temporal neuroscience. I always think of the way that you
describe space and time, similar to the way you just described mind and body in a sense,
but to just try to generalize it more, is it fair to say that you're thinking of mind and body
and world, mind-body world, are you thinking of them as different patterns, spatio-temporal
patterns or something like this, in a really general broad way? Because these are the big
questions. How do we find, how can we say these things are separate, mind-body-brain, or not
separate? Let me give you two, more and more refer to basic, general, general questions.
Basic features of nature. Look at the seaside. You're in Netherlands, you go to the seaside,
to the northern sea, and on a stormy day, you have big waves, you have small waves,
and the smaller waves are integrated within the big waves, and the big waves are more slower, the
smaller waves are faster. Here, you see basic dynamic principles,
basic dynamic principles of nature. That's exactly also what happens in the brain. In the brain,
have plenty of waves and big waves and small waves, and they nested within each other.
The smaller wave is nested, the smaller, faster wave nested within the bigger,
slower waves. That's like the Russian dolls or the Chinese crystal balls, much more refined,
many crystal balls, smaller, bigger. You have basically the same shape, but different sizes.
That's exactly what happens. You call the scale-free organization,
holds across different time scales and space scales, and that's exactly in the brain.
That's one thing. That's basically you have basic dynamic principles in the brain. Dynamics means
the change over time. When you look into nature, there are continuous changes. Everything changes.
It's amazing, and our brain needs to adapt to that. Now, let's say, okay, the brain is dynamic.
Yeah, and that's basically the lower part of the iceberg beneath the water. Cognition is the upper
part above the water. But as you know, the iceberg is only stable because of the lower part, unless
the Titanic comes. But now, the second question, you said, yes, you characterize the brain as
dynamic, meaning it's continuous temple changes, and that's, of course, part of spatial temple
neuroscience. However, what you really want to show, how are these dynamic and spatial or
topographic features related to mental features like self and consciousness? Again, I give you
another example, which I always like, is water. Water, we all know, is the chemical formula of H2O.
Yeah, so now imagine if you weren't knowing that water has the chemical formula of H2O.
So here in Canada, you would say there's three different substances. In winter, it's frozen,
it's ice. Then in spring, it's a fluid. And in summer, when it's really hot, which is really
the case here in Ottawa, it becomes vapor. So if you weren't knowing that all three are related
to H2O, you would say these are completely three different substances. So how is it possible that
the same chemical formula transforms into such different states, depending upon the context,
whether it's hot, warm, cold? Same here in the brain. So I would say the brain has certain
dynamic configurations. They are neuronal. And when you have a proper context, when, for instance,
the neuronal activity is aligned or synchronized with the environmental or the bodily activity,
then in the case of proper relationship, it transforms into a mental state. Last example
for that, and that's why the alignment, the link to the environment, the integration of yourself
and your body as part of the wider environment is so important for me. Another example of dancing,
you dance to the rhythm of the music, you feel the groove of the music. And the better you get the
rhythm of the music, the better you feel the groove of the music. That's a mental experience.
Are you a dancer? I'm not a dancer, but I'm a runner and a rollerblader into cross-country
where you have rhythm. And I'm addicted to these rhythms. To rollerblading too?
Yeah. It does change your mental state, doesn't it? So you apparently do it too.
I did in the past, yeah. But also running. And it's interesting, right? Because it relates to that
water, ice, steam. I mean, you do feel like you change your spatio-temporal experience of the
world when you literally change your spatio-temporal movement when you run or rollerblade. And it
does end up feeling like it changes your mental state. But for people who don't know what
spatio-temporal neuroscience is, which is something you're developing, you're looking at these
different states, let's call them, through space and time and waves. So how does this relate? Are
you actually saying different brain states are different speeds? Or what is this spatio-temporal
neuroscience? Let me give you two indications because it's really a process in development.
So first, cognition. So you have memory, you have working memory, short-term memory,
and then you recall, or you just nodded your head. So I recall that, or you said something,
I recall that. That's typical working memory or longer-term memory. What you said at the beginning,
your question, why I came into all this question, my high school stuff and so on.
Okay. So now imagine that my brain is so that, and then we use usually for specific regions,
and we look for a particular frequency in the brain states, mediating this kind of cognition.
Now, if you pay attention, attention is a fix. So now that's basically a very cognitive approach
to the brain, and you can do the same for different emotions. You look for specific regions or networks,
and then you look for specific time scales of frequencies. However, now imagine your brain has
not only those functions, cognitive attention, working memory, et cetera, and emotions,
but it also its own spontaneous activity. And that spontaneous activity is continuously active
and continuously changing, meaning it's continuously dynamic. It's dynamic, and it's also a certain
spatial organization. So now imagine if your working memory function occurs in the brain,
which by itself is too slow. What will you have? You're always delayed in your answers.
Or it occurs, or let's say your brain is literally too slow. Let's say it's like a seaside, which has
almost no waves anymore. It's flat, meaning no change at all. It's extremely slow.
So what happens? Of course, you will always be delayed in your working memory.
That's, and you will always be delayed in your movements. At the end, you might not even move
at all anymore. We call this a psychomotor retardation. It's a typical symptom of
depression. Now, the opposite. If your brain is too fast, your working memory and attention
also becomes too fast, but that might not be beneficial because if you're too fast,
you skip some of this. That happens in mania. So basically, the brain provides a spatial temporal
envelope around these different functions. Cognition, emotion, movements, action, perceptions.
It's the lower part of the iceberg providing a spatial temporal envelope, basically around
the upper part, what we call cognition. And now you say, yes, this is spatial,
this is one aspect of spatial temporal neuroscience, how it perceives cognitive emotion,
perception, etc. in a spatial temporal. Now, the key question is, where do mental features come?
Because for me, the spatial temporal structuring, the way the brain, spontaneous activity or task
activity structures its own spatial temporal features, that's strongly related to consciousness,
sense of self. So that's the deeper layer. That's why we, for instance, now investigate
time and space experiences. If your time and space experience are different, subjective,
then you have corresponding time and space changes in the brain. So depressed patients
experience an abnormal slowness. Nothing moves when you ask. And that's what leads them into
depression. Imagine nothing changes. There's a feeling of being stuck or something too. I think,
I mean, just in a very general way, we can understand that there's a slow temporal spatial
feeling or experience if anyone has ever felt depressed, almost as if you can't
manage to even get yourself to move or something. And when something like mania, it does feel,
even as the word suggests, as if everything is sped up or is moving very quickly or something
like this. I wonder though, are we talking about this in a metaphorical sort of way? Or are you
really saying that there are brain, there's measurable brain activity that's slow or fast
associated with something like depression and mania? Exactly. And I take it, I'm a German,
so I take things very literate. I've read these studies, but I think people who haven't,
you're really saying it in a literal way. And also we should describe about spontaneous brain
activity, almost like a resting state or something. Could people think of it almost as like the habits
it's not just your brain, but the activity of the brain, which is part of the body,
which is part of the world. It's developed certain, let's say habits or patterns of activity
just to develop, to thrive, to survive. It's necessary. Some of it comes just evolutionarily.
Some of it is through this alignment that you talk about. But at some point, you've got some patterns,
you've got some biological habits, and that's in your brain too. And those aren't necessarily
ever really changing. I mean, they're always dynamic and changing, but they're changing in
a kind of continuous pattern, not based on what the body's external sensory envelope is experiencing.
Is that kind of what the spontaneous activity is? Yeah. I mean, the spontaneous activity is,
of course, right at the interface between brain, body, and environment. First of all, the depression,
I mean, you can really show that the perception is lagging behind. We showed this. Their movements
are lagging behind. Their thoughts are not changing, and their emotions are not changed.
So you can really show. And all that is related to corresponding slowness in the neuronal activity.
For instance, a study which we just submit is, let's say, your global brain, the whole brain
activity here, your whole surface cortex of the brain, is related, of course, with your motor
regions, the motor regions, which basically foster your movement and your action.
And what we see in depression, that this link from the rest of the brain to the motor regions
of the brain are simply too slow. Yeah, there is a lag behind. They literally lag behind. It's like
a kid in school saying the right answer, but five minutes later. Yeah, of course,
then during the answer, nothing happens. OK, failed. Yeah, so same as you can literally see
that. And we use different measures from engineering and physics to really measure the speed of the
brain, literally. That's what I also describe in this little book for the broader audience,
NeuroWaves, which came out last year, where we really said that the waves are too slow.
So in depression, you have to imagine probably it's like a flat sea, and occasionally there are
some waves, but not much happen. When you look the first five minutes at the flat sea,
you feel calm. Now imagine you look for one hour at the sea, you become crazy and depressed.
That's exactly what happens in depression. The other thing what you said, the patterns,
I think that's a very, very interesting point. I think how do you develop these dynamic spatial
temple patterns in your brain? And that's where long term environmental influences come in, for
instance, early childhood trauma. They can shape your spatial temple structure. And literally,
we and others could see that, that you have much more disorder measured by entropy, whatever it is.
You have much more disorder. There's less structure and order in your spatial temple
features in the brain, spontaneous activity, when you have a high degree of early childhood trauma.
And you can see this 20 years later. And that, of course, may then force you to react with
depression. Yeah. So when you're saying they're slow or they're fast, what is it in comparison
to? Is it in comparison to other humans? Is it in comparison to the world that the brain is in?
Is it in comparison to the body? What's too slow? Is it in comparison to another part of the brain?
What's the slowness or the fastness? Yeah, very good. So of course, it's double. So first,
you preferred individual speed. And your speed will be different from mine. How can you measure
that? For instance, let people do finger tapping spontaneously in the frequencies they like to do.
And trust me, 20 people, 20 different speeds. It's unbelievable. So that's basically your
natural frequency. You can also do the breathing, for instance. The natural breathing frequency is
slightly different between all of us. So that's one. So you have an internal reference or an
internal default, which has developed over time. And there's a genetic predisposition, and of
course, environmental. So this could be kind of the resting state for the subject in a way,
or the spontaneous rest. What's kind of the normal state when you're not provoked or stimulated or
having to deal with some kind of issue? Yeah, exactly. Spontaneous or resting state,
where we say the absence of any specific task. Right. It still means there's a lot of brain
activity. It's just that the parameters are kind of similar. And we kind of all have a signature.
That makes sense, right? We have a spatio-temporal signature in a way that's always going to be
different from everyone else. But there's a lot of regularity probably, usually, with kind of
a healthy, healthy brains or so. But they are, as you said, highly individualized or personalized.
Yeah. And that's what we're also trying to use for therapy and mental disorder. And then there's,
of course, the other side. You said, what is the reference for slow fast? The other reference
is your environmental context. So nowadays, your reference in the environmental context
is really sparse. You have these phones, and they constantly ring, and here and there.
And I often imagine 100 years ago how it must have been for people the first time when I had
a telephone, which is completely outdated for us. You're the real telephone, not a cell phone.
Yeah, like one of those where you have to kind of do it with your finger, right? I've seen that.
Exactly. How it must have felt for the people, for their space and time experience.
Suddenly, I have the voice here online, and usually it took me five hours of horse riding.
Yeah, it must have felt crazy. Talk about space and time change.
Exactly. It must have felt intrusive.
Yeah, almost mysterious in a scary way.
Exactly. And suddenly the other person is much closer, both suddenly. And that means your
environment changes, and your brain miraculously adapts. So we are doing a lot of now really new
studies where we really saw how much the brain is sensitive to temple or spatial changes in
the environmental context. It's incredible. Our brain is so sensitive. So conceptually speaking,
our brain is not in here. It's always between me, my body, and the environment.
Yeah. This is incredible.
It's very exciting, but I think that's confusing too, because of course what we think of as the
brain is always here. But what we think of as what we've come to associate with the brain,
which let's call it cognition, is always this... You can't stop it at the brain,
but it is a kind of bodily environmental interaction. I think that's what you're
pointing out too. You are kind of saying that it's this ongoing process. I think Whitehead
was one of your influences, right? Philosophically. So you're coming out of a process ontology about
this, aren't you? Yeah.
Yeah. So definitely processes, of course, continuous change, dynamic, and very interesting.
Whitehead is not so much understood here in the Western world. It's a very small niche,
but when you go to the Eastern world in China or Taiwan or Japan, Whitehead is very popular.
Oh, is that so? Because they have a much better sense for this continuous change.
So because here in the Western world, we say, okay, change is opposite to non-change.
So we have this all or nothing, a very logical approach, all or nothing, either change. How
and the whole debate in philosophy about personal identity is how is it possible that
it's something which is there over time, but my body continuously changes?
Yeah, right. Right. Shipped with theses kind of thing.
For them, it's absolutely not a problem for the theses. That's why I feel often intellectually
very at home over there. So the change and non-change is an integral part. You cannot
have change not without non-change and vice versa. It's almost a dialectic Hegelian-like thing.
And it's really amazing. And that's exactly the brain work. So the question of personal
identity. So there's continuous change. My brain is no longer the same in one year than today.
And in 10 years, all the nerve cells probably have replaced each other in new cells. And the
wiring is different. But I'm still feeling the same as Georg Nortov. So now, of course,
you can say being a psychiatrist, you're not of you have an illusion. You have the delusion
that you're still Georg Nortov. But that's not true. Because we share all that experience. So
I would say it's a pattern of change, which is consistent. So that's where you have the
non-change. It's a pattern of change. And that's basically a development of a whitehead process
ontology. And the other thing, which is an extension of a whitehead, is these patterns
and these processes are always relational. So they're in between. It's not that I have a
body and a world, but the concept of body and world are secondary obstructions
from an underlying continuous relational process between them. And that process is spatial.
Wonderful. So this is great. I'm glad we got to this place, because now I want to
look at some of the things we were just talking about. For example, something like
depression, where you have some sort of issue in terms of the alignment between the speed at
which the body is operating and the speed or space required by what that body is encountering,
so to speak. So could we also think of that in this pattern way? Because I think that's what
I was trying to bring up at the beginning, too. It's not that you're trying to say,
here's a distinct measurement that is always the case. But it's more like we can find patterns
that for a particular individual, if we look at their entire trajectory, are going to be
unhealthy or something like depression, something like mania, in comparison to something like a
healthy state for them, which might be completely different from someone else in terms of speed and
time experience. So can we think of it like that? That what we're really trying to do is understand
our own kind of unique patterns, basically a temporal pattern, and how we can adjust it such
that what we're encountering isn't so slow or fast, let's say, but so overwhelming or so stimulating,
let's say, you know, in something like depression or mania. Yeah, I think the best one, I give you
an example. A patient of mine, she came and was a 16-year-old girl. She was completely mute,
didn't speak at all, and she came with her mother. Her mother was speaking normal speed, so normal
speed. And later, and of course we were really concerned, it would be some neurological, some
bleeding or some tumor. It wasn't. It was just pure depression. That's an extreme symptom. You
call it mutism. People don't speak in depression. And then afterwards, I asked her, why didn't you
speak in the admission in the days after? And she said, you know, I knew that my mother was speaking
normal speed, but it was too fast for me at the time. I couldn't follow, and that's why I shut up.
Because I had the feeling I had nothing to say. Yeah, it was too fast for me. It was just all very
blurry, and I couldn't follow, and then I completely shut up. Yeah, and that I think it's a nice
description of how the speed shapes her behavior. So this is a key feature of what I call spatial
temporal psychopathology or spatial temporal psychology or spatial temporal neuroscience,
that these temporal features or spatial features shape your behavior and your experiences and the
way you behave relative within your environmental context. That's the key thing. It's very
interesting because like that story that you just told, she's aware of her own spatiotemporal
process in a way. She's aware enough to know that she's not moving at the speed that's required
from her mother. But there's something in even just that dissonance of not being able to keep up
and kind of knowing it can also be very paralyzing and can lead to more difficulty in these mental
issues. So have you found that just pointing something like that out to a patient like this,
that that can be helpful in a way? That that can even help them to find some kind of agency over
readjusting or realigning spatiotemporally? Yeah, yeah, very, very good points. The first thing I
would describe this dissonance as it, let's say, imagine the other part of the iceberg slash your
cognition moves and shifts relative to the lower part. So they're partially decoupled, which is a
feasible scenario. You can have that. Yeah. And that's exactly what happens here. And you
mentioned a second point, which is a key point for many, because the mental disorders are
disorders of the lower part of the iceberg beneath the water, meaning you have absolutely no conscious
control over it. It's more like that spontaneous resting state pattern, stuff that's going on
all the time that has nothing to do with whether or not you have a thought about it or something
or anything like that. Yeah. What you consciously experience is only the upper five percent tip of
the iceberg. So we think it's everything. Right. I think we have to pause there for a minute because
because that iceberg is all we it's how we first even come to understand we have cognition.
It feels like all of cognition or all of this process that you're describing, but it's really
just the very growing tip of it. And it comes often, as you've expressed with this world
relation, that it's through this interaction, for example, with your patient and her mother,
that she's starting to realize that her body, the iceberg and brain, isn't responding in the
way that is required by the mother. So there's this ongoing dynamical process, as you described,
that's going on too. But the only thing we often really recognize is the very tip. And that's why
we need something like a therapist, probably. Yeah. No, no. Well expressed. I mean, and now
look at the lower part of the iceberg beneath the water. That is directly aligned to the water.
That's what I call world brain relation, world body brain relation. And that's exactly where
mental disorders have themselves. You see all you don't come to the psychiatrist because you
have an auditory hallucination. You come to the psychiatrist because you cannot navigate the world.
The auditory hallucination is just a consequence. So you feel as strange and depressed as already
she cannot speak anymore because she can't follow her mind. That's what I call temporal spatial
alignment on the empirical side. On the ontological side, I would call this philosophical side,
I would call this world brain relation. I think, and that's amazing. So now we do a lot of research
on this link of the brain, the interface, the body and brain in its environment. It's
absolutely amazing how sensitive our brain is in tracking, let's say over one hour,
it tracks the frequencies. Let's say if you present 20 second blocks, 20 seconds,
every 20 seconds for one hour, your brain tracks this 20 second interval. You see it in what is
called the power spectrum of the brain, or you see it in the waves of the brain, that they have a
peak in exactly that time. It's amazing how sensitive our brain is. It makes a lot of sense
just from what you've said, because to go back, we're not separating brain, body and environment. So
you have to learn to align with the spatio-temporal encounter that you're having.
I mean, that is what you do as a baby. You learn how to walk, you learn how to talk,
you learn emotions, and everyone learns it differently, developmentally. And so all of
us develop differently, good or bad, whatever you can say. But we're developing these kind of
patterns, of course, also coming with some preset, so to speak, patterns. But it's always ongoing,
right? It's not linear. I think that's part of a lot of the measurements that you use are scale-free
or complex or fractal. So you're trying to look at how all this is happening in many different
kind of scales and levels at once. How does that translate to something like just a patient,
though? Because it gets to this mental-physical thing again, right? What we just described of the
patient having an awareness that she's not able to keep up with her mother is what we would say
is a mental problem. But it could come from this physical development of the iceberg.
And so as a doctor, as a therapist, as a philosopher, how do you know which part
of where in the scale to start to focus, to help someone? Or is it a matter of
trying to figure out their pattern, and that leads you to it?
I come back to that. First, I think you said it very nicely. You learn and develop.
And I would add, you learn and develop in an environmental context. So if you have five siblings,
oh, the very nice thing, very nice thing, just recently, two days ago, a patient of mine told me,
so she is a sibling, she has an identical twin. And now she told me she has a boyfriend who has
also an identical twin. Wow. And we were both laughing. It was so funny. And then she said,
you know, certain experience I can share with him. We don't even need to talk about it. We know.
Yeah. Because they've had that. They've developed the iceberg similarly.
Yeah. And that's the same environment. So that's why they understand. It's incredible. I really
had to smile about this. And the way she described it, she said, it feels so familiar. I'm so at home
with him. Because, yeah, and also, you know, this identical twin is very important for them. It's
almost like a substitute partner. Lifelong. I think a lot of us can understand that too,
though, just in it to really kind of zoom out here and talk general. But that's why we find
ourselves more easily attracted to certain things. You know, we talked about you being
interested in philosophy, who knows where that came from. But somehow, it resonated with you on
some level in your development up to that point. And we all kind of find groups where we probably
are resonating based on these experiences, right? That we don't even know that we are.
Of course. We just feel good. Yeah, it just feels right. Although sometimes, you know, you want to,
you become aware of that and you start to realize, oh, maybe I'll try something different
in order to change my own spatial temporal pattern.
Two things that you said, how do you translate this into mental disorder and mental therapy?
So one thing which I often notice, when you're over this, we said earlier that this lower part
of the iceberg is a pure dynamic, how you relate to the world is completely unconscious.
Meaning you have absolutely no sense of agency. Now imagine if this alignment goes wrong,
like in depression or in mania or in schizophrenia, you have even more a loss of agency.
And this is a key thing. And just explaining the patient, how does this come about?
And that it is real. It is not just an illusion. So that helps them a lot. Just understanding.
It's like, imagine there's another example, you know, when you have seizures, epilepsies,
seizures, people, 100 years ago, we didn't know that it's just some discharges, abnormal
discharges in the brain. So people were thinking these are possessed by the devil and all kinds
of things. Now we know what happens in the brain. We know the mechanism, as we say as scientists.
Yeah. And it's much easier. You can deal with it and we find forms of intervention. And that's
what I also try to do. This is really a new thing, which hasn't come out so much, but we're really
working on that, that we do personalized diagnostic and therapy of mental disorders.
So for instance, we developed a special form of personalized, individualized breathing therapy
in anxiety disorders. And we're running larger studies and it's amazing how much it helps.
And each one gets a different breathing frequency for the training at home. And that's really makes
a difference. Yeah. Because as we say, we had, you had it earlier. What is your reference? What
is your default? What is your baseline? You're into that's different. You feel better with maybe
a faster breathing rate than me or vice versa and so on and forth. So meaning if we are depressed
or if we are very anxious, we will benefit from different breathing rates. So, but if you would,
let's say, I give you the example. Let's say, I just say you have a breathing rate of five and
usually you have a breathing rate of 10, let's say. Yeah. So now you're seriously depressed
because also your breathing is too slow and depression can also happen. So now you would
say intuitively, you would say, okay, not as a normal in the healthy state, breathing rate of 10
now is depressed by five. So I give him 10. You will see that I will not like this because the
10 is too far away from the five, from my actual state. So you would need to give me six to make
my breathing slightly faster and pull me out of the depression. And that's exactly the kind of stuff.
That's so important that if we could find, I mean, with all this new technology and new ways of
doing data, like I would hope, and I think that's what you're working on and the lab is working on
is trying to find ways to look at these patterns as individual instead of just having this kind
of cookie cutter generalized thing. Like everyone should be at a 10 or something and then trying to
make everyone be at that. That probably causes a lot of trouble too, just for someone who's
experiencing a different time scale, a different spatial, spatio-temporal scale than their
encounter. If suddenly they're supposed to keep up with something that doesn't at all resonate
to their own pattern, it's probably going to make you even sicker, right? And it happens probably a
lot. Yeah, that's why we have also, I mean, I see we have in this breathing trial, we have patients
who suffer from severe anxiety and have been through all kinds of medication and psychotherapy,
really, really difficult. And in many of them, the breathing gives them some relief.
This is amazing. It's great to come back just to that interface of the breath, because that is,
like you said, you can tell a lot about your own pattern from that and you can start to come into
a kind of awareness of it. The other thing which may again be completely amazing, we observe that
the breathing pattern also adapts to the temporal patterns in the environment. So let's say if you
play a certain rhythm, your breathing will adapt. The only way for that to be possible is it goes
through the brain. Yeah, because the brain is sensitive to this rhythm and then top-down
modulates the breathing. But it's amazing. So sometimes I explain this to my patients
and just say, your brain wants to be in synchronicity with the body, with yourself and
with the environment, and then it's happy. It's literally true. And actually, we have one large
scale study, which we just published in December, a former postdoc of mine, Andreas Calabrini,
from Italy, who is now a professor in Bergamo. And we investigated a thousand subjects online
with visual analog scales for the experience of synchrony with your own self, with your body,
with the environment, the nature, and with others. And then we had various other sense of freedom
thoughts and various other psychological scales. But what the study really showed, the core,
when we did a complex network analysis, the core of our psychological life is the synchrony with
yourself, synchrony with the body, synchrony with the other, synchrony with nature. It's amazing.
And then we also observed that subjects who had a lower synchrony index of this had a higher rate
of anxiety and depression. So it's like synchrony within all these fractal scales. It's not some
linear kind of sequence. Yeah, it's really amazing. So you really want to be in tune.
You always want to be embedded. You want to be part of the wider environment. And then you feel
comfortable. This can be very difficult for us to understand because we're all at different levels
of awareness of our own patterns. I guess that's something that therapy can help you become aware,
but it can also be very scary in the same way that breathing meditation can be for most of us,
it's very beneficial. But for some, it can be frightening to suddenly become aware of yourself
in a certain way. If you're sensitized at a different decibel than those around you,
something like schizophrenia, because often they're so identified with their illusion
that you can't really get that kind of scale separation between the tip of the iceberg and
the iceberg. Yeah. So what we're trying to do in psychology between different kinds of spatial
temporal disturbances for different disorders. So you already heard that I consider depression and
mania as speed disorders as slow thought. So what is schizophrenia? That of course is a difficult
one. So what we observe in schizophrenia, that they have a high degree of temporal imprecision
in the millisecond range. So you observe, let's say you have continuous waves, they fluctuate.
And in schizophrenia, they fluctuate in a very disorder. So they have sudden shifts. So imagine
a very wild sea with a lot of storm. Yeah. So suddenly you have a wave here, you have a wave
here, you have a wave here, and the waves are no longer coordinated. And you can really observe
in the millisecond range in the brain, which is something we showed in the last two, three years,
and another major paper just came out on this. And now how is that this temperate? So let's say,
imagine you perceive me, but in your visual regions in the brain, the activity is slightly
unstable and oscillating and fluctuating and what you probably would say unstable and disordered,
chaotic patterns, then you will perceive me also in a chaotic way. So meaning you have absolutely
no idea why not of, let's say, imagine you see as I move a lot with my hands. Yeah. And I know,
even your computer's moving around. Yeah. And now imagine that you perceive not the timing of this
movement, because you're right, you perceive my hand as something like this or strange. So of
course, you have no idea what it means. And then you search for the meaning and you become insecure,
and then all the other stuff develops. Yeah. And in your experience, so you have sudden shifts.
You have sudden shifts in your ongoing neuronal activity, or the phase cycle. And how do you
experience that? That's what they often experience as fragmentation, temporal fragmentation. So now
I like to use the example of a river. So usually the river is flowing. Flowing is nice and smooth.
Now imagine you throw some big rocks into the river. So suddenly the water is coming up,
it becomes turbulent, and then it tries to find a way around it. That's the situation in schizophrenia,
a lot of rocks into the river. I think that makes sense on a lot of levels. So does that mean that
the state, the kind of pattern, let's say, in the way that we've been talking, the spatio-temporal
pattern that one is living in could suddenly shift to a completely different level decibel setting
channel, so to speak? How would that stuff that you just described, how do you see how that would
explain? Is it just that the chaos can suddenly click into a different level of spatio-temporal
pattern? Yeah. I mean, so first, just imagine you have a river which is flowing steadily.
You feel calm. You feel good. You feel embedded. Now imagine you have a river like this with a lot
of rocks and very nervous. You also become nervous and uncertain. So same thing. You don't
want to look at that turbulent river for a long time. You can't take it anymore. That's exactly
what happens in these psychotic or schizophrenia people. And then you try to find an explanation
what is going on. You try to replace that with some certainty. And then you come up with these
delusions and hallucinations and so on and so forth because you look for certainty. It is literally
the word. We have a paper where the word breaks down. Yeah. Your alignment is not only too slow
or fast. It completely breaks down. You cannot make sense intuitively anymore here, let's say,
of this cup or why I now show this cup and how that is related to my speech.
Because you perceive the cup as completely different from what I'm talking because you
cannot link the two because of your chaos and turbulence in your brain. And then you say,
yeah, why is not a thousand? Probably he wants to kill me with a cup. Yeah. But I think there's some
kind of collapse too. And just to go to this metaphor that you've been using of the iceberg
and then you have the levels, the tip, the part that you can see. Somehow it feels like
the person no longer has a part. They can see that they've just collapsed into whatever that
defense mechanism story is or something. So it's interesting because this fractal stuff that you
describe, it almost feels like it sort of leaps into a different state space or something,
but it's solid. It's not that they're questioning it. There's no questioning really happening in
those episodes. Yeah. No, I mean, I think your brain has remarkable plasticity and flexibility.
I like to speak of reorganization. So you have a topographic or spatial,
and a dynamic or temporal reorganization of you. Yeah. And that can be trained, for instance,
in meditation. Yeah. You have a real proficient meditation. The brain of proficient meditation
meditators has a different spatial template pattern and structure than those of naive or
non-meditators and in mental disorders too. Yeah. You have a topographic and spatial reorganization
of your brain and henceforth also your relation to body and environment. Yeah. So your whole spatial
temporal perception in relation to the world changes. And all functions are affected. Your
emotions, your cognitions, your motor behavior, your social cognition, and name it. And your sense
of self. There's a lot that we could talk about about this continuity of spatial temporal patterns
and how a self develops. And that would also kind of make sense with all of these different disorders
of, I guess the self could be all of, would you think it's the iceberg and the tip of the iceberg?
Or is it just the tip of the iceberg? It's neither. It's how the iceberg is situated
relative to the seaside. That's your point of view. Yeah. What it is like, that's your
perspective in which you take onto the water, but you embed it within the water. So you see,
I have an explicitly relational or neuroecological concept of sense of self. Very important.
Higher order functions, very basic. Yeah. Self is not a higher order function. Self is
more or less the body's alignment with the encounter. With the context. With the context.
How the iceberg is positioned relative to the water, to the sea. So I'm now positioned here
in sixth floor of the Institute at work. That's now my state of self. And I have a nice view here
for the audience. Oh, very nice. Yeah. But now when I would step down,
I would have a slightly different point of view and slightly change. And my experience of myself
would change. Most people wouldn't understand that the space changes, like you having that
amazing view does something for your mental health in these traditional ways. But what you
talk about in NeuroWaves is time. And this is very interesting because we don't often think of how
time spaces, so to speak, change our mentality. But it's too much for us to really unpack fully
right now. But if we start to think of these patterns as spatio-temporal, so it's not only
the spaces that we are developing in and through in our brain activity, but it's also time and the
temporality. I think it gets a little to what you were describing with the dancing.
Yeah, but dance is a very good example. So you align and synchronize your own inner space and
your own inner time to the space of the music. And when you ask musicians, my partner is a composer,
we have a lot of musicians. And when you ask pianists, they just, their piano playing is
strongly dependent upon the hall of the space. And the way they situate themselves in that hall.
So the older pianists were extremely sensitive to it. And to try to get used to the hall and
get a feeling for the conductors. Because for singers, they call it projection, how you project
into the hall. Your voice sounds completely different. The same voice
sounds different in a small room versus a large room.
Hugely important. This is what's called projection. So it's a key thing. And that tells you that,
let's say you hear the voice of the musician, there's always a prior relationship to your
environmental space and what is going on time wise. Because otherwise you wouldn't have that
perception and projection. So like a musician, your partner, or even an actress or someone,
when we talk about timing, it's somehow also a matter of reading the room too. So it's all
connected. I think I once heard you say that your early interest in understanding the brain and all
these things we've been talking about in terms of psychiatry and neuroscience and illness and health
was to understand what causes distortions of the brain. And I wonder where that came
from. Have you had personal experience? Is it just curiosity? Is that still motivating you?
What's that motivation in your life? So we started initially with,
I'm a brain-mind researcher, but I probably should have better said, I could also say,
I'm a researcher of subjectivity. So everything which is subjective is so fascinating for me.
And you don't see it, but I'm more than fascinated than ever, particularly now where
I have the feeling I have a better grip on things. It took me 20, 30 years to develop all this,
isn't it? Basically long time, no idea, but now I have the feeling maybe I'm right.
And there's a lot of data and conceptual stuff. And now also other people take it over
worldwide, which is very nice. And wow, this is a really different way of analysing the same data
and conceiving it makes sense and the data supports it. So it's now basically, I finally,
after so many years, I think I bought maybe the right puzzle and now I have to put the pieces of
the puzzle together. So it took me, I did 30 years of puzzle shopping, yeah, couldn't decide.
It's a lot of persistence.
The usual puzzles. Now I finally have the puzzle and I say, wow, now I have a play tool. So,
and now I put the pieces of the puzzle and sometimes, oh God, how stupid are you? And
then it makes perfect sense. So it's really amazing. So it's probably the most exciting
time in my life as a researcher. And it's really this, and if you ask me, is it curiosity,
is it knowledge? Of course, in your life way, you have a lot of personal encounters,
and you see a lot. But it's really the curiosity. I mean, for me, when it comes down to what,
for me, why I do this, I'm just curious. And for me, every day where I get some sort of new
insight, some knowledge, that makes me very happy. If I can understand something and just the
process by itself. And now if I can also use it to help some of these psychiatric patients,
where the clinical situation is dire. I mean, it's a catastrophe. Psychiatry is completely lagging
behind the other medical disciplines. So that's why we develop all these different
personalised therapies now. That's for me, it's beautiful. And that's what motivates me. And
if you have the feeling, sometimes I'm in very good moments, very rare moments, but sometimes
it's maybe I'm really knocking on nature's door. And that's a feeling. There's no publication
that top genre can ever top that. This is such a nice feeling. It's beautiful. And maybe if I'm
right, of course I might be wrong with all the spatial temple stuff, but if I'm right,
the implications are huge. Yeah. And that's just wonderful understanding and how nature works. So
I become more and more an admirer of nature. And that's why this climate change really hurts.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean, do you see your research, you talk about neuroecological
and environment and these aren't separate from everyday urgencies, are they? I mean,
if we think of space and time as being so foundational in terms of our patterns,
no matter if we think of them as measurements or we think of them, I mean, we didn't get into it.
I wanted to ask you about how you really conceive of space and time. Is it absolute? Are we in a
container? Is it a theatre? But regardless of all that, what you're doing is prioritising that
everyone has a unique spatial temporal pattern, to put it very generally. And if that were really
taken seriously, and we took it seriously for all beings in the world, that'd be a big change
ecologically. Yeah. See, I have these students from all over the world. And so I get all these
different cultures to see where they come from. And I mean, for instance, people from the north,
I mean, Canada is a northern country. Let's face it, we have winters with minus 30, minus 40,
long winters, five, six months. That shapes your mental state a completely different way than when
you grow up in Italy. Yeah. It's unbelievable. And you see similar differences in northern and
southern China. So your climate, your geography has a strong impact on your mind. And how is
that possible? Because your brain aligns to the spatial temporal pattern of its environmental
ecological context. So I do think that these kind of climate changes we had here last year in May,
June, it was horrendous, all these wildfires. And we had really doomsday scenarios, everything was
yellow. That of course changes. If that occurs more often, that changes your mental state.
Absolutely. How adaptive our brain is. It's incredible.
Yeah, it adapts but to almost like a disease state. I was driving to New York during that time,
I remember, and I was visiting family. And yeah, it's very clear sign that we are not separate from
all that is going on around us and that maybe there's a way in which we can start to understand
all these different patterns and how we're kind of co-creating each other in a very serious way.
So I have to just ask, I mean, this is called love and philosophy. So how do you see that word?
When you were talking, I was thinking about this flow state that somebody like your partner probably
feels when they're really, I don't know what it is, but when you're at one with the music
and the instrument and so on, I guess we kind of have that. You can have that in science,
too. Like what's motivated you to persist and 30 years build this part by part, come up with
your theory. Is it something like, can we talk about that word or is it only?
It's curiosity. It's novelty seeking. It's trying to understand, as I said. So academic life can be
very busy and you have a lot of demands becoming increasing and you have to do this. You have to
sit here. You have to leadership and commission and blah, blah, blah, blah. And at some point in
my life, I really broke down everything and I said, okay, what is really what motivates me?
What do I really want to do? I want to understand. I want to do the research. And then since then I
cut everything down and I just do this and I'm really a very happy person since. Yeah. And I
think that's the curiosity and the curiosity started for me with philosophy. And I'm still,
I'm always amazed how much philosophical conceptual issues enter into even very tiny
little empirical details. Our lab meetings and you know this, go always back and forth like a
pendulum between really empirical tiny little detail and then suddenly a conceptual issue comes
up. And it's amazing. And I mean, our brain is simply too limited just to have a conceptual
or a scientific or empirical approach. You need both because we are too limited.
I mean, this really goes, of course, back to one of my favorite philosophers,
is Emmanuel Kant. I mean, let's say I paraphrase it a little bit. Empirical research
without models and philosophy is blind and philosophy without science is empty.
Yeah. And I think it's really, it speaks that we cannot use just one method. We need a
complementarity of methods targeted on the same question. So that's why I consider my different
disciplines background as nothing special. It's just different methods. And I use whatever methods
which can help me to understand subjectivity, neuro mental transitions, brain mind,
mental disorders. So I think that's really key. And yeah, that's research. And there's a little
bit also, let's say call it a wide research because it doesn't always go the pre-established
very assembly lines of research and the usual topic which editors now try to basically pre-define.
And what are the hot questions? It's a little bit what you call outside the box,
but even that is used as a category. So I wouldn't like to apply that either. Yeah.
I think that's very important. You just need to, it's like a little kid. So imagine a little kid
playing on the street and trying out this, trying out that, trying out here and all the ball flies
there. And when I kick the ball, it happens this. And then I do this. This is science. This is the
original idea of science is trying out. Yeah. And we forgot that. And I really became aware
of that dimensional science in the case of when the COVID vaccines were developed. So suddenly
we had no idea. So usually we think it's like a factory. It produces assembly line and every
minute a new knowledge is coming out like a car on the assembling line. No, science is trying out,
it's playing around. We don't know. That's what science is. And when you see the development of
the COVID vaccine, I went a lot into that because it was a typical example. And it's just, it's
trying out, okay, there's a problem. Okay, we need to try this one. We need to try this one.
We need to try this one. Okay. Maybe this one worked. Okay. Why doesn't either of these work?
Or maybe we forgot something. Okay. Then you need to test for that one. And it goes on like that.
That's science. I'm so glad you said that because that's a perspective that's so important. And I
think it does connect to this love of knowledge or this motivating force that I was trying to
touch on. That you did get back to this curiosity and you did ask yourself, because you do have a
lot of energy and you are very motivated to study all this stuff and do all this research. It takes
a lot because it's really serious stuff and it's a lot of different disciplines. It's not easy to
master all of that or even get to the point where you can discuss it coherently. But it's
wonderful that you say it's about this. It's about trying things out because I feel like we need to
remember that in science and philosophy that we don't have the answers in the, it's about trying
it rather than trying to fit into all these other already established possibilities for answers
where we're not really in that spirit that you just described anymore. But I know you must come
up against a lot of resistance because you're trying to do things differently than the way
everyone's kind of stuck doing them can be really hard. Or do you just not look at that and you just
kind of continue on? Oh, I had a lot of resistance and it hurt me very much because I didn't
understand where the resistance coming from. So the good thing is I learned to understand the
presuppositions, why they became resistant, why they resist. So for instance, when your papers
are rejected and they say, okay, your spatial temporal approach and you're so proud of it,
and then it comes back, reject it, it's completely trivial what you're doing, that hurts. But the way
out of it is saying, okay, maybe why do they say it's trivial? So now I understand my opponents
very well. So it's easier for me. And now I'm a little bit in a,
it's getting better. So I think that the time speaks for me. Also, I see a lot of young people
coming to us. I can see a lot of people taking this up. So I think the time is speaking for me.
Usually you wouldn't say this as a scientist in my age, but and I'm more than excited than ever.
So I feel almost like a little kid who finally got his tool and can play around and say, now I
can finally, now I can get up and walk around and can make a mess in this kitchen and find out how
the kitchen works before I couldn't walk, let's say when I'm one and a half years old. So sometimes
I feel a little bit like that. So for me, it's very easy to get bitter. It's very hard because
it's really tough. I mean, it's really tough. Yeah. You're really supposed to publish a certain
quota and you're really supposed to fit into certain things and you get a lot of negative
feedback just as part of the course. Like that's part of built into the process, much less if you're
doing something new, which scares people. Yeah. But still you see how I'm my way. I have a certain
tunnel vision. Of course, I'm still very open. But now, particularly now, because I think maybe
we really hit upon something, we knock on nature's door and that, of course, so fascinating.
And yeah, as I said, I'm also lucky I get a lot of clever students coming from all over the world,
which is also very nice. And that's really motivating. Yeah. Yeah, I think it does.
And you have a good atmosphere that you let people explore what they're good at. But also,
I mean, you are keeping things very scientific, you know? So it's not just this kind of everyone
just explore their ideas. But in a lab meeting, it's incredibly scientific. You could hardly
understand half the stuff going on because it's so mathematical and like, you know, it's wonderful.
But there's all these new theories and ideas and tools that everyone understands. All the students
are really quite, they have a lot of skills in skills, like very practical skills, whether it's
coding, whether it's mathematical, whatever. But then it does, there is always a moment where
it touches on these bigger issues, which I think is very important for all of us as students,
as teachers, as whatever we are, because trying to forget that that motivation is part of why we're
doing it can result in perhaps some space to temporal problems, right, for us in the way that
we're discussing. So I have the association now of a dancer. I think it's a good example. So dancer,
they need to do a lot of physical stuff. I mean, you can't imagine how much they have to start
early. So much training, yeah. A lot of training. But the real purpose is expressing the music. So
once they have the good physical training, then they really can start doing art. Before, it's
just a craftmanship. But then they can do art. So same here. So just having some skills and applying
them in a mechanical way doesn't mean that you're a scientist. You have the skills and then you can
play around and then you can start doing science. And I think we often confuse it these days because
it's so method driven. Okay, you have a method. Now you apply the method and that paper publish,
boom, PhD, boom, boom, boom, boom. Yeah, but that's not science starts then when you think you are
finished. Then you need to think, how can you use this method? What does this method might imply
about the brain and what does not? And maybe I need some other methods for my question.
And maybe the method also gives me an idea of what kind of question I can ask. So suddenly I
see a new question. This is the most exciting moment for me when some of my clever students
bring in a new idea. Bingo, let's do that. Yeah, exactly. I mean, that's fantastic. So you see how
method and target question are intertwined, but they're not the same.
That's beautiful. It's almost like a craft to think of science almost like as a,
you really have, even the way you described it all these years of almost like apprenticeship,
where you're really learning, but you're learning towards an action too. And sometimes that action
is, it is like a dance, right? I mean, in the best moments in science, they do feel like the best
moments when you're dancing or when you're running or when you're, you know, there's a similar,
there's something similar there. Yeah, I do a lot of running, so that's why I have my flow feeling,
but sometimes also, so when these feelings are here. Running is my meditation. Running is your
meditation. That's my meditative like state. So for me, meditation sitting there and doing would
not be the right time of induction. Exactly. That's your, your spatio-temporal pattern wouldn't
align well with that. But running, it's almost like you get to the same space.
Yeah. Does that ground you in your science? Like when you feel that? Yeah, so the running is very,
because here, so I run, of course, for the sake of running, but also for the sake of nature,
because here in Ottawa and Canada, the nature can be really beautiful. And I enjoy this. And
then I really become part of the nature. It's just unbelievable. Yeah, you feel at one with it or
something. Do you think of it as aligning spatio-temporally? Yeah. It feels like that,
doesn't it? Yeah. There's no difference anymore between you and the nature.
Yeah, which is kind of what meditation is trying to do, too. You get to a place where you forget
yourself, but you're completely aware of yourself. That's some strange thing. Yeah, they call this
non-dual awareness. Yeah, there's many ways to that. You've also situated yourself in a place
that has a lot of checks and balances regarding what we just talked about, because you're doing
the empirical work, studying. You're thinking about it philosophically. You have all these
people around you doing both, but you're also literally still in touch with patience. So I
did want to add that, too, that I think that must also help in all these ways that we've been talking
about in terms of making new discoveries and also not taking the rejection too seriously, because
you're not sitting only on the sixth floor thinking about all these things. You're really
enacting them, too. Yeah, it's a nice thing. So somebody asked me where I get my ideas from.
The two main sources are the philosophy and the patience, what they tell you. So my neuroscience
can be understood from those two angles. And if you don't have that background, you will
have a hard time understanding, because a lot's coming from the subjective experience of the
patients and from the philosophy background. You see how my favorite philosophers, some of them
are clear. Tell me about some of your favorite philosophers. The philosophy block, yeah, so
obviously the expert, of course, is clear, already knows, and is for me indispensable. So I read the
critique of pure reason. Everybody reads it differently. As an attempt to bring together
the logical and the natural world. He uses terms like synthesis, which is, of course, a term of
the natural world. And he uses concepts and categories, which are concepts of the logical
world. And the way he tries to do this, and to be honest, I think ultimately fails,
it's just amazing. I mean, this is, so for me, good philosophy is not the answers,
is the questions you try to address. Because you find new questions which are lurking behind
the curtain slash the phenomena. And a little bit, I try to do the same with, I shift the question
from the relationship of mind and body to the one of world and brain, because I think I can address
the former better with the latter. So that, I think, the Kant is just unbelievable. Of course,
the Descartes is a fantastic philosopher. I think always bashing him as a dualist is unfair.
Many people say that I'm very close in my thinking to Spinoza, which is very interesting.
But I don't have that much background by Spinoza. Aristotle is, of course, is always
a strong philosopher for me more than Plato. Obviously, that's clear. I'm too much of a natural
world person than a logical person. Another philosopher from whom I did actually all my
master's thesis and everything about was Husserl. Husserl, of course, was a phenomenology. And what
I admire in Husserl is his development. So he started with the logical investigations,
now I know a little bit for the expert, but, and then he really developed all the concepts
to the life world. So he constantly asked new questions. So that, I really admire that.
Throughout life, he constantly put himself into new position and relativized things and searched
further. I love that. It's for me, this is, I respect that a lot. A person whom I personally
don't like, but his questions are good as Heidegger. It's clear why I'm saying that being in the world,
I think is true, but I think there's also a lot of metaphorical things. I think there needs to be
more philosophical substance, but it aligns really well with some of my ideas. And then
you may wonder, contemporary philosophers is Thomas Nagel. I think he's really read in the wrong
way. He's much deeper and much more sophisticated than he's made in analytic philosophy. Sorry to
say I'm not really a big friend of analytic philosophy anymore, because it's just too narrow
and too sterile. And even if they talk about empirical data, they do it in a logical sense.
Philosophers completely from a different angle contemporary is MacDowell. I don't always agree
with that. But the idea of a logical space, sellers, logical space of nature, logical space
of reason, and how MacDowell tries to link them. But he comes, of course, from the logical end,
I would say, no, no, no, you need a spatial temple space of nature. Yeah. So that I think,
but this gives good. And then, so I think Searle, not as much appreciated as Nagel,
but I think also he raises some good questions. And then I was actually because of my Taiwan and
Chinese connection, I have a very strong connection to that. I also have a very good friend who is
also a very good friend of mine. He introduced me to Chinese philosophy and Jiang Zhe, the old
Jiang Zhe Taoist philosopher. It's amazing. And even wrote a paper, which is only published in
Chinese, but not in English, about the Copernican revolution in philosophy in Kant, in Heidegger,
in Whitehead, and in Jiang Zhe. It's only in Chinese available. And I think that sheds a light
on the state of philosophy in the Western world. Jiang Zhe is an old Taoist philosopher,
goes back to about the ancient Greek time in China. And he has some beautiful,
yeah, they have always these metaphorical stories.
The butterfly, the dream of the butterfly, some people might know. Oh, yeah, of course.
The blue fish. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And he has many, so it's really amazing. And I think he really,
and that's why for me is so amazing. He really understood how man is integrated, embedded
as part of nature. When you go to Beijing, there's a temple of heaven,
and that's basically the connection to nature. And even the emperor bowed in front of this temple.
So this nature, and the Chinese, they never came up with the idea of a separate word,
a purely logical word, because we were embedded in part of the natural world. So that's for me really,
so it's really ecological ontology, as some people describe my ontology, my special temple
ontology. So it's amazing. And that's why I say, and this is very important, because
they understand how to view humans or men from the viewpoint of the world and the nature.
So a non anthropocentric view, because whereas the Western and the European centric people
always view world and nature from the perspective of humans, it's a very anthropocentric thing.
And that of course goes back, that's for me the quest for the Copernican revolution.
So that's why I'm crazy about this. And in my 2018 book, The Spontaneous Brain, I have a whole
part of the Copernican revolutions. And this paper where I compare these cant by Ted Heidegger and
it's exactly about the Copernican revolution.
That's only in Chinese though?
Only in Chinese. Of course I have an English version, but I think it reflects upon what's
going on in Western philosophy, that I cannot publish things like that in this part of the book.
Yeah, it reminds me of something else I put down for us to talk about what we didn't quite get to
is this point of view. I feel like that's such an important concept, and I think it's in Spontaneous
Brain that you really unpack it. It's something I think about a lot too in my work. How do we get
outside of this spatiotemporal pattern? And of course we do it through telescopes, through
microscopes, through books, through movies. That's what we're always trying to do is share these
other scales of view. Do you see that as fractal? Do you see us as learning from each other and
developing towards something new? I mean maybe that's kind of part of what you're trying to do
with your work too is take all these positions, look at all these positions, look from these
positions. I think it's very interesting that you said herself and this phenomenological tradition
is important to you because that goes back to that subjectivity of really what you said
motivated you is trying to understand. And you do, you're always trying to understand what is the
self and how can we understand another self? And I don't know, I'm saying a lot of things,
but I wonder how you think of all this because it can feel very linear and either or. And this is
like about beyond dichotomies. So how do you see, is your work fractalizing some of that?
I mean, first I would say just we are one fractal within the many fractals of nature.
And we are like just one little Russian doll among the many. One little Chinese crystal ball
within among the many crystal balls. I mean, you see me smiling. So this is what we are,
not more and not less. Which is wonderful.
I try to bring out and see my work is really, if you want to characterize,
I'm against dichotomies because they logically justify dichotomies. Yes,
if you have a purely logical point of view, yes, but in the natural world you do not have
dichotomies. You have continua, you have gradation, and that's key for nature.
Otherwise, so the natural world, now speaking to philosophers, cannot be completely one-to-one
equated with a logical one. And that means that purely logical conceptual methodology
will remain insufficient to grasp the natural world. You need to combine it. That's what I mean by
non-reductive neurophilosophy. That's basically a systematic method how to link science and
philosophy in a systematic way. That's basically what I'm doing. And what I'm doing with that
is, from my point of view, nothing new. When you go back to the 19th century,
Schopenhauer, I forgot Schopenhauer, one of my favorite philosophers. Schopenhauer is crazy.
Schopenhauer, you read his papers, his books. I mean, he goes into biology, into chemistry,
and wrote a whole thing about the earthquake in Lisbon. Leibniz, of course, goes without saying,
mathematics, Descartes. That's where I see myself in that tradition. But that has been lost in the
20th century, because since philosophy thought it has itself distinguished from the science,
and then it completely went on the logical track, slash analytic philosophy. Yeah,
and we're still suffering. Yeah, it's like we've taken language or this representations that we
use to communicate about the world as the world itself in some weird way. And then just gotten,
I think I agree with you about analytic philosophy. It can be very good to study
for critical thinking. I think it can be even essential, like everyone should probably have
to learn how to think critically. And analytic philosophy does that. But just to get stuck in
there, and that becomes the kind of the whole landscape in which problems need to be solved.
It feels very, yeah, like reductive. Yeah, I think it's a confusion between method and problem,
between method and question. Yeah, if you take the question problem to be identical
with the method, that's the way you end up. It's just one method to address the problem.
That kind of gets back to what I was trying to get at the very beginning about the way that we
think of all these terms like mind and brain and space and time. There's a way in which we can
unstick from all that and see all of those things as something like language or like representations
that we've been using. Of course, if you take any one point of view, you could probably find an
opposite from that kind of point of view. But we're trying to zoom out and understand there's
always these fractal many, many nested as a word you use a lot points of view. And how can we start
to understand that even though we use something like dichotomy or dualism or analytic philosophy
to help us think better and understand the world, it's not like the territory. It's a map.
Well, thanks so much for all of this. But is there anything else before we...
No, I think we covered a lot of ground.
Yeah, we did. All right. Well, thanks so much.
