Doing what you're told is not always the best idea.
It made the right choices on the basis of what you're being asked to do at each point.
As long as those choices are contextualized with an overall direction of travel, but not
too worried about the particular choice at hand, then you do quite naturally flow along.
So I think that for me, flow in the service of reaching a conclusion, you know, is just
a description of existence.
So it would look like things are measuring things.
It would look like things are observing things.
And crucially, it's not that we're just passive ingestants and assimilators of the flow of
sensory input.
We can now act upon the world to sample and direct that flow.
So you've now got this interesting circular perception action cycle.
The circle comes out into the inside and the outside.
Where I'm trying to make sense through a process of inference, if I can do that gracefully
for a long period of time, I am basically in tune with my environment, with my world.
Keeping your mind open and finding the simplest explanation, that's the best way to reach
understanding or explanation for the world.
It's too easy to mistake the model for the reality and you think you're fighting about
the reality, but you're fighting about the model.
These would be issues if it was only me on Mars, I wouldn't need a theory of mind.
But as soon as it's something like me, like you, I now need a theory of mind because we're
not talking about one particular state of being.
The world is always moving.
And as you say, it's not about finding the perfect state of being.
It's finding the best fit to a constantly changing world.
And it's always constantly changing because you're changing it for me and I'm changing
it for you.
So as soon as we put two things like us together, we guarantee that we're going to be
learning from each other and constantly changing.
We're always chasing away uncertainty, always chasing away surprise, always chasing
away epistemic entropy, always on the moon.
So this is what I meant by flow, flowing on this attracting set or attracting manifold
where that manifold or that attracting set is all consistent with the kind of thing
that I am.
And it's incredibly itinerant, technically space filling, that has low volume in the
sense of only a very small number of all the states I could be in that are consistent
with me living and being alive.
Hello, everyone, welcome to Love and Philosophy Beyond Dichotomy, where we try to look past
traditional divides and divisions and notice the pattern that connects.
Today is a holiday episode or even Carl called it the birthday episode because this has
been one year since I've been putting these conversations online.
And it's also the end of the year.
Twenty twenty five is almost here.
It's holiday season.
So this is holiday flow with Carl because this word flow, as you'll hear, is very
important in this conversation, comes up from the beginning and goes through to the
end and connects some of the terms that we're using.
Also, this tricky way that a lot of these terms are everyday terms, but mean something
a bit different in the mathematics, in the neuroscience and the way that Carl uses them
in his work, words like energy, value, entropy, belief, connection, surprise, flow.
We talk about all of those from different perspectives here, and I try to think about
them in a way that can be understood from whatever side you might be coming to, whether
you're thinking of those in terms of mathematics or just in everyday life.
Carl Friston is maybe the most famous neuroscientist in the world.
That's how he's often described.
We talk about that and why that is as it is some of the inventions that he's come up
with over his life.
But in the YouTube world or the podcast world, he's most known for this idea of active
inference or free energy principle, which is a first principles account of sentient
behavior, I guess is the short definition of it.
He's trying to understand what sentient behavior is and how we can go to the beginning
of it, so to speak, although we talk here about maybe not thinking of this in a linear
way, but what connects life and sentient behavior and how can we understand that?
As you know, this podcast is a lot about patterns that connect and I actually see a
lot of the math, which is very difficult, by the way, and we don't talk about math here
too much. Certainly, we don't talk about it in any way that you need to understand math
to listen, but his work, Carl's work and active inference and the free energy principle
are very mathematical.
But I see this as a sort of maths of how we might notice the patterns that connect at
different multiscaled areas of behavior or cognition or life, depending on how you want
to use those different words.
And by that, I mean that it's a way we can externally represent these processes and
activities so that we can see the patterns that connect them and what they have in
common. What's different about life and non-life, for example, or how we connect
something like the way we move through the world to the way that we think through the
world. I try to bring in some of those ideas here and ask him about them.
And as you'll hear, we get to some really interesting places because there's actually a
lot of paradox being held in his work and in the math that he's doing.
There's this kind of math called Bayesian statistics, which I think within itself is
able to hold paradox and part of how we can now maybe have mathematical models that do
this, that help us understand the patterns that connect.
So we talk about that here.
He explains in a way that I think is very understandable, this almost contradiction at
the heart of the free energy principle and active inference and a lot of his ideas, which
is that we're both minimizing and maximizing energy or entropy.
I'm going to let you listen to him and to the conversation to understand that.
But I just want to note it here that it's one of those patterns that I'm talking about
and that he explains very well, even though you might have to listen to it a few times or
read some of his other papers before it starts to really fully open.
But even if you don't want to read any of these hard papers or think about these
difficult issues, you can listen to this conversation, not needing to know all of this
stuff, because what we talk about is what that model is showing.
And it's this idea of flow of how does one stay in the sweet spot, which is to say, stay
alive. And that is through this minimizing and maximizing of energy and entropy at the
same time and at multiple scales.
And that has a lot to do with how we think about the body, what we think of as life.
That's why this can seem like a theory of everything, almost like you just can't
handle to think about it because it's so big.
But in this conversation, we walk through these ideas in a way that's very
understandable. There's so much more here than I could really get to.
For example, he mentions Jeffrey Anton and Peter Diane and Jerry Edelman.
All of those are figures I would love to have talked for an hour with Karl about,
because there's a lot of history.
I'm going to link to some things that you could read if you want to know more about
that history. We do touch on quite a lot of it here.
I think one of the most interesting parts for me is when we talk about what philosophers
will recognize as a common problem or issue that is often talked about in terms of what
is alive or not alive, why isn't a thermostat or a watts governor or some sort of machine
that's functioning in an organized way, not able to be called life.
In my work, I link it to affordances in the thesis I'm writing.
Affordances are the way we can distinguish these things and solve some of these bigger
problems. I bring that up here with Karl.
He seems to agree with that or it seems to fit very well with his work, even though it
takes a bit of time for us, Karl and I, to become clear about exactly what these words
are meaning as we're using them.
He also says at some point that inference can be exchanged with computation or measurement,
the word itself, because I push him a little bit on the idea of unconscious inference,
which is an important word in his work.
And it's a term that could also mean unconscious conclusion, for example.
And Karl says that inference could be exchanged with computation or measurement or any of
these words. And this points to another theme that we've talked about a lot here on the
show, which is what's the difference between the model and the process that's being
modeled, especially when we are the process doing the modeling of our own process.
This can become very meta, confused, hard to understand.
How am I as a person able to model my own patterns or habits to myself?
And within that entanglement, what's the model and what's not the model?
And all of this has important repercussions in real life, because it starts to matter
how we think about what the brain is, what the body is, if it's a machine, if it's not
what's objective, what's subjective, which one of those sides should be taken seriously.
All of these are very important themes for holding paradox.
And we talk about those here in a very particular way.
There's a lot of answers here to a lot of big questions.
If one is willing to be patient and try to understand where Karl is coming from and
understand this line of questioning about how I'm trying to understand what the space is
holding binaries.
We also talk about listening, and Karl says that the secret to success is doing what you're told.
That's another thread that runs through this conversation that's very interesting and that
will become a little bit like holding the paradox by the end, because being told what
to do, as Karl eventually unpacks, is actually being able to listen to what other people
are saying to you relative to where you are, to your perspective.
This conversation connects to the last one with affordances with Harry Haft and to the
one coming next, which is with Evan Thompson, where we discuss in a very pointed way a lot
of the ideas that I raise here with Karl about subjective and objective and the difference
between the process and the science that's modeling or measuring that process.
But I just want to say from the beginning, these are hard subjects and a lot of people
are trying to figure them out in the best way possible.
Karl has done so much work on so many levels.
You'll hear about a lot of it here, but there's even so much more.
He's really given a lot in all sorts of fields and disciplines.
He has dedicated his life to trying to articulate what I think of as the pattern that connects.
The work or the writing about the free energy principle can get criticized for what I was
just saying, that it's taking the model for the territory, which by the way, Karl is definitely
not doing.
He's always saying this is just a model of the process.
But because our language is so tied up with these binaries, it can be very hard to even
talk about it without lapsing, as he says, back into that language.
So it does get very confusing, but Karl himself is clear about it.
Some of the things I push him on here are just to clarify that and to make it understood
for myself and for listeners.
Because there's a lot of insight here that can be a gift if we are able to understand
exactly what these terms are doing, the work they're doing, and understand it as a way
that we can see how these different patterns of life and cognition and consciousness connect
at many different scales within our own lives, within our own bodies, but also within the
wider ecological world.
So thanks for being here, and I wish you a very beautiful holiday season wherever you
may be.
And if it's not a holiday season for you, I wish you a wonderful couple of weeks until
I see you or hear you or you hear me or see me again.
Thanks for all that you gave this year.
Thanks for becoming part of this endeavor.
And I send you lots of love and warm greetings.
Hi, Karl.
We already said hello, but thank you so much for being on Love and Philosophy today.
Thank you very much for having me.
To get started, I thought I'd ask, what's been on your mind over all these years?
You're humble, and you often say, no, I'm not.
But many people have told me or say that you're the most successful scientist of our times
and so on.
And you've worked on a lot of different things.
But before we get into that, I wonder if there's been any one problem or idea that stands out
for you as something you had at the beginning of your career that you still have.
That's a nice question to start with.
I think the secret of success, and certainly my success, is to do what you're told.
So the very fact that I have got involved in so many things, it's because most of my
work is in response to collaborations or interactions, usually with younger people, with students
to whom I am responsible.
And they go off in very, very many different directions, and one has to follow to a certain
extent.
Has there been one overriding ambition or question?
Yeah, there certainly has.
I started my career, or I designed my career, really, or made the choices that enabled me
to study what arrogantly is probably the most interesting thing in the universe, which
is me, or at least my brain.
So from a very early age, I was looking forward to a time in life where I could just focus
scientifically, well, on many levels, on how I work or how one's brain work.
And of course, that necessarily entails an understanding of how other people's brains
work.
So that had implications in terms of my journey, specifically in terms of doing both mathematics
and physics to formalise that research and that understanding, but at the same time also
going into medicine and psychiatry and qualifying as a psychiatrist.
So in later life, I was able to combine these dual routes to self-understanding and probably
more importantly, other understanding.
I'm glad you brought up those different roads that you've met or have been part of your
life.
But as you were talking, two things came up.
I was wondering if you ever say no to things, because I know a lot of people you help and
work with.
So one wonders how you can possibly do it all.
You seem to say yes, and somehow you're able to do it.
Connected to that, I seem to remember that's how you got into psychiatry in a way.
Someone told you that you needed to have all of that in order to pursue the more physics
or mathematics-based interests that you had.
Was it that also a matter of doing what someone wanted from you?
Well, doing what you're told, yes.
Yeah, doing what you're told.
It's nice you heard that story, which is absolutely true, yes.
So I was in my late teens deciding what kind of A-levels or baccalaureates and then what
kind of course I'd like to do at university, and there were two funny stories.
One funny story was that this was at the time that computers were being invented and used,
and one of the computers was deployed to try and predict the perfect career for school
children.
And I was a guinea pig, and I remember actually being televised by the local television stage
station, putting in all my preferences for the perfect life into this computer and then
waiting.
I was about 15 years of age, 16 years of age, but in those days there was no email.
You had to print out things on cards and send them to Liverpool University and wait for
the response.
So a week later, the envelope arrived, my perfect career, having spated my enthusiasm
for nature and working outside, but I also liked physics and engineering and electrical
things.
So my perfect career apparently should have been a television aerial erector, which means
I could...
What?
What is that?
Sorry, a television aerial erector?
Erectors, yes.
I've never heard of such a thing.
Well, yes, nowadays with sky, with dishes and cable, you wouldn't need them.
In those days, you had to have an aerial on the top of your house in order to receive
the radio waves to make it work.
Like an antenna.
An antenna, yes.
A television antenna erector.
Okay.
Wow.
Hello.
I took this to my career advisor and said, well, actually what I'd really like to do
is the mathematics or the physics of psychology.
And he said, oh, if you want to be a psychologist, you have to be a doctor first.
And what he meant was he thought I wanted to be a psychiatrist as opposed to a psychologist.
And of course, in the UK, you have to become a doctor before you become a psychiatrist.
So neither of us knew the difference between psychology and psychiatry.
So I dutifully applied to do medicine and then went to university to do medicine and
then discovered afterwards that I didn't quite have the mathematics or the physics.
So I was able to put that into my early undergraduate training by mixing and matching courses.
Yeah, so you're absolutely right.
Doing what you're told is not always the best idea if what you're being told is not quite
what you had in mind.
In this case, though, maybe, considering where you are now, something good happened.
Yeah.
It was very important.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
The quest for understanding others themselves clearly was made much more poignant by the
fact that I ended up trying to learn about, diagnose, treat, help people with very psychiatric
conditions and particularly schizophrenia.
I wonder where, when, if there's a memory of the mathematics becoming such a fascinating
puzzle for you.
Also the psychological, I've heard you talk something about maybe you wanted to do psychological
mathematics or mathematical psychology, but that's becoming a more normal thing to put
those together.
But I don't think back in the days when you were being told to become an antenna erector,
those were really commonly put together.
Maybe I'm wrong, but I wonder if you remember trying to put those together already early
on.
Yes.
I mean, very explicitly.
I applied to a university, Cambridge University in the UK, specifically because they allowed
you to do and still do a natural sciences trade post that allowed you to do a mixture
of psychology and physics.
So I was able to study quantum physics and probability theory at the same time as studying
psychology in service of acquiring a medical degree.
That decision I think was probably much simplified, but now looking back, I think it was in deference
to the dual interests of my parents.
So my mother loved psychology and she used to get all the popular psychology books, Thinking
Elatially and all the books that one would read in the 1960s to gain insight into yourself.
I had to read all of those, then my father was an engineer, and he had a passion for
understanding things mathematically in terms of the physics and made me read again an instance
of doing as you're told, reading Serafa Reddington's Space, Time and Gravitations.
So there were two of these two feats, so it was quite natural for me to try and lay one
to the other and to build a career that allowed you to do that.
You're absolutely right.
Now that is almost the norm, isn't it?
If you think about computational neuroscience, theoretical neurobiology or indeed nowadays
machine learning, artificial intelligence research, to make a difference practically
in the 21st century, you have to be at least have some fluency with computer science and
with programming, with data science and the underlying maths of that.
And of course, the most interesting thing to apply that to is other people and other
users.
Yes, exactly.
There's computational everything now, psychiatry, neuropsychiatry.
But you mentioned schizophrenia, and that's an important part of your early world coming
into the neuroscience.
Was it a residency?
I'm not sure what it was, but I feel you spent some years living with patients, people who
have what we call schizophrenia.
Is that correct?
Yes, absolutely.
Yes, it was exactly a residency.
It was a training program in psychiatry, a long program lasting for many years before
came a member of the Royal College of Psychiatrists in the UK.
And two of those years involved partaking or being part of a therapeutic community for
people with chronic schizophrenia.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
That's a very strong, I mean, for me to try to imagine being in that environment for
so long, would you say that influenced all that was to come or was it just a sort of
interlude?
I'm wondering when you're in that environment with people who are operating or living in
a way that's different from the so-called norm, whatever that might be, if that influenced
the way you think of, you thought of things like energy and entropy and the way they can
be different for different people in different circumstances, because later on you would
deal with all of that in different ways.
If I think at the time, what I recall was the de-skilling that is required to be open
to understanding and living with people who in this instance had chronic psychotic disorders.
So that really requires you to pull down and to de-reify everything you thought you knew
in order to be receptive to a different perspective and a different set of experiences.
So in fact, the formalization or the naturalization of the way that people made sense and things
and made decisions that I was dealing with as a young psychiatrist came after the event,
after many, many years.
So what needed to be understood was the gift of that kind of early clinical experience.
So at the time you were not thinking about free energy or entropy, you were trying to
understand why this person was distressed or enjoying your neologisms and their natural
thinking.
But then as time went on and you got more and more into biological psychiatry and neuropharmacology
and the bi-physical mechanisms that underwrote this kind of sentience and decision-making,
you started to apply what you had learned as a student in terms of modeling and the
physics, both in application like MRI physics and neuroimaging, but also in terms of inference
and modeling that inherits from a knowledge of probability theory and statistics.
So you wrote this paper with Chris Frith that's pretty much what it was and still is a different
notion of how to deal with something like schizophrenia, the disconnection hypothesis.
In there I think you talk about value and belief or I read somewhere maybe that was
part of what inspired that hypothesis that the disconnection hypothesis that cells aren't
connecting properly, you can explain it better than me, might be maybe in the prefrontal
and temporal lobe, have to do with some of the manifestations of schizophrenia.
I feel like that was already connected to words like belief and value and so on.
Is that right or was that later too?
No that's absolutely right and you phrased it very nicely.
So in getting into research I was lucky, I did as I was told, I was focusing on brain
imaging by people like Peter Little who was at that time one of the young, good and great
of schizophrenia researcher who had seen the potential of brain imaging and the people
in charge of assembling an expert team to deploy brain imaging to understand schizophrenia
included people from Chris Frith who was at that time at Northwick Park.
That was the scene setting in the UK at the inception of modern human brain mapping but
I did a sabbatical with Jerry Edelman at the Neuroscientists Institute at the Rockefeller
subsequently Scripps Institute in California and our focus at that time and I say our
including people like Reid Montagu and Julio Snoddy, Olaf Sponsi and some key young men that
Edelman was mentoring was on value dependent learning.
So I think that's where the value gets it and you're absolutely right to understand how we
wire ourselves to understand the fundamentals of how we make associations and how those
associations are installed in terms of synaptic connections requires a very mechanistic understanding
of when and where you should consolidate those synaptic connections.
So it was a natural step then to think well if people who have positive or negative symptoms
of schizophrenia in some way are suffering from a failure of this kind of associative
plasticity and this what subsequently now could be regarded as a kind of synaptopathy a pathology
of synaptic connections then this would be a natural explanation for the disintegration
of the psyche described by people like Loyler a century previously.
So what that pointed to was a failure of functional integration or a failure
of connectivity in the sense that the connection the connectivity dictates the coordination
of neuronal networks neural activity that underwrites our sense making and the way we behave.
So on return to England and analyzing the brain imaging data from schizophrenia we were looking
for evidence of this pernicious kind of disconnections disintegration not of the
sort that you get with a stroke or a neurodeteriorative disease where well certainly
sort of for example nuclear dystrophies where you might get a disconnection due to a cutting
of the wires more a functional disconnection that rested upon a failure of synaptic integration
at the sort of molecular level and more specifically the failure of to modulate appropriately
contextualize when and where and how you should consolidate this connection or modulate this
this connection. So the value here was a rather generic notion of value the kind of value that
you find in utility theory in economics or reward in behavioral reinforcement learning
from Jerry Edelman's point of view it was even more generic it's just basically
adaptive fitness how fit is this path of connections in order to ensure the assistance
or longevity of these neuronal groups in response to this sensory input and so he read value very
much as a theoretical biologist might read adaptive fitness you know simply how is it
that certain connections and certain on cell assemblies neuronal groups come to into existence
in the same spirit and you know how is it that phenotypes such as you and me come into existence
at an evolutionary time scale and then looked at the same maths to try and explain things in terms
of this value dependent or fitness dependent pathos the shape.
I'm trying to imagine the time period because it feels like to me was this the beginning of
something like fmri which was that was like the 90s right when that first became okay so this was
really in the moment of the first time a lot of this was happening and when at what you just
described was that an application of psychology to brain imaging something like I think it's
called schwarz theory of value or these it makes me think of circular causality and loops because
there's all these old ways of thinking in psychology there's sort of these loops and circles of
usually binary sort of categorizations of what's called value and values are considered to be
beliefs and so on so is that a jump was it literally being applied to the mathematics
and the mechanics those at that time in those early years or was it already removed from those
sources? No no I think I think there was an intimate and deep link and you're absolutely
right and these this early work was coincided with the inception of things like functional
magnetic resonance imaging in fact the very early this and the empirical evidence for
the disconnection hypothesis in schizophrenia actually came from positron emission tomography
which was had been going for about half a decade before fmri started you know to become available
routinely in the early 90s so slightly before fmri were the first evidence not just from our
group but a number of groups who for the first time could image the entire brain that's important
because if you want to make a comment about or infer a failure or dynamic coordination or
functional integration that involves all of the brain you have to be able to measure all of the
brain at the same time so brain imaging was very important and be able to do that was the first
time ever that people had a window on the functional integration over all of the brain
and were able to make comments about the coupling between brain areas of connection the functional
connectivity as it's currently known because you were able to measure that at the same time
the maths in terms of the beliefs and the value so you could certainly read it from a sort of
psychological perspective but you could also read it from the point of view of
behavioral psychology in terms of reward learning and so the kind of value that Jerry Adelman was
talking about and that we were talking about transpired to be easily translated in terms of
reward for example it's not you know there are certain it's subsequently transpired that that's
not the complete story but certainly you could talk very comfortably to with people in behavioral
psychology reinforcement learning and the early machine learning and computational or neural
network people who have been working on the similar and you know what was the right objective
function in order to learn the right weights in a neural as opposed to a neuronal network
I think the notion of value that you are referring to and the circle of causality
was it came to the fore a little bit later in my life in terms of understanding the more generic
principles of the self-organizing brain and those I think were inspired by
work on predictive coding and certainly the work of my next door neighbor who was Jeffrey Hinton
who was you know at that time he'd come from the Americans and was working next door in Queen
Square at the Gatsby competition neuroscience unit so his work was inspirational along with
his younger colleague Peter Diane in terms of taking Helmholtzian ideas about the unconscious
inference and also the mechanics of how an artifact and a neural network for example
would comply with those basic principles of modeling and understanding that could be read
in terms of a Helmholtzian notion of unconscious inference and at that point I think the kind of
value that you're talking about became center stage in terms of what is valuable to me what
are my prior preferences and you know how would I write that down in terms of a physical principle
of least action that which is just a biology principle and how would I demonstrate and reach
out to cognitive neuroscience and philosophy sorry not psychology psychology more generally
and the philosophy of mind and psychology.
It's fascinating I think a lot about dichotomies when this beyond dichotomy and binaries and of
course in everything that we've already brought up there's a lot of binary built in whether it's zero
one or whether it's these models that are usually either or or versus I think that Schwarz model if
I remember correctly is something versus something always in psychology and I'm wondering if it was
sort of co-creating you know the technology and the way that we approach mind body or I mean there's
all these dual not dualisms but just binaries of the way that we come to understand the body and
the brain and all the cognition and you know we see we seem to have used binaries to progress up
to this point and it's interesting to see how the technology and the ideas were sort of co-evolving
what was influencing what at that time is very interesting that you were with Hinton and you also
brought up unconscious inference which I want to ask you about but first I should just say I remember
once I think that for some I was in with you in the same room or something was in Berlin at the
Technical University when you came and that was a while ago maybe 2019 and I think I remember
someone saying here's Carl Friston basically every image you see of the brain depends on him
or or you're looking at his work or something because because of the software you invented
which I can't remember all of it I know there's a lot like VBM and SPM and um the the dynamical
okay but the point for people who are listening in case they don't know they only know that all
this other stuff you're famous for you actually have invented or I guess that's the word invented
a lot of software or programs that have really become so important to the way we image the brain
you brought up this amazing moment of being able to actually look at the brain as you were
describing it I was thinking of the first time we could take a picture of the earth from the
moon or something this kind of moment where things change where you get a different perspective and
you can see in a whole way I wonder if you felt that in the community at that time
of a perspective shift and then I wonder why you wanted to make this new software
that has become so important to everyone who's looking at that bigger perspective in a as
general as possible way maybe you could walk me through that part of this part of your journey
right um but that's a good question and I have to say because um I was new to the game for me
it wasn't a um drop the mic moment or what for me this seemed to be the natural way to study the
brain to basically image the brain in action um and um well let me come back to you know answering
that question but just briefly um for your for your listeners just um explain the nature of
that software and its importance at that time so we have lots and lots of data so this was the
first instance of big data so this before the human genome so this is this was the first time
that people had to deal um with very large time series with you know thousands millions of
pixel elements or volume elements called voxels that constituted a great image not just at any
one point in time but a sequence of these things that could last for minutes if not hours
so to handle that you basically have to solve a relatively difficult statistical problem
which is inferring where your interventions during these successive acquisitions of brain
images were causing a difference in brain activity and neuronal response of neurophysiological or
hemodynamic response based upon the blood flow changes um the difficulty was um that there was
a certain slowness imposed by the um the brain imaging which meant that you have to adjust for
an account for um that statistically so basically what we did was invent a um a statistical procedure
that effectively gave you x-rays of brain activation um so you know when people point to uh
these um heat maps of brain responses they are almost universally images of statistics or not
images of activation they're the images of how significant is that activation
understanding carefully all the correlations and all the confounds that could have caused that
so that was statistical parametric mapping just to stop you for a second for people who are
listening so almost everyone in some science magazine or just anywhere on media social media
you see these images now right of i almost sometimes think we need this little
caption underneath like this is not a pipe this this is not a brain because those images are
almost the way we think of brains now as those are brains with like little parts that are lighted up
but that we're basically looking at your work in a way right well yeah i think that's slightly
it's a little grandiose but that's what it is like everyone has seen it probably even if you've
never studied neuroscience but you you've said something very important there about this sort of
you know understanding what you are looking at in terms of lots of little activations lots of
little bits of the brain lighting up of course that's not the complete story um and perhaps
i'm kindly perhaps um in a joyful way people used to refer to this as cartography or neocartography
map making in terms of you know this is the part of the brain the city that does color this is the
part that does uh sound this is a part that does edges this is a part that does love you know
just building little maps of the brain of course that's not um an understand not convey an
understanding of the functional architecture of the brain it does to a certain extent in the sense
you can now confirm the principle of function segregation by which i mean that the the brain
is organized according to a principle where different functions are anatomically segregated
specialized in anatomically segregated regions and that's basically what you're looking at with
these little heat maps the other side of the coin though is a functional integration it's the
coordination that we were talking about before the connectivity so these dual principles of
functional specialization of functional integration you can even say functional
differentiation of functional integration um were um part of the journey of developing the
right kind of maths and software in order people to for people to answer questions about not just
where in the brain their favorite cognitive process or their favorite decision making or
their favorite um the sexual synthesis was occurring but how that processing was distributed
and coordinated um in terms of the coupling between the holes integrated in terms of the
coupling and that's where the dynamic cause of modeling came in so that was the the next wave
it's moving on from cartography to connectivity um and that's um i repeat reflects this sort of
um distinction between specialization and integration as these two principles of
functional brain functional brain architectures then there was vvm no vvm yeah vvm is just a um
application of the same statistical procedures as to call statistical parametric mapping
not to functional images that are acquired over time but structural images of anatomy
that are acquired over different people so that allows you to pick out if there has been um say
a particular deficit in the anatomical structure in this brain region when i compare a whole bunch
of people who are neurotypical with say people who have Alzheimer's disease and you can track
that longitudinally as well and voxel-based morphometries it's an application of svm to
structural data um so you know the the bright line really is the move from um these whole brain
statistical analyses to the connectivity and the dynamics and the cause and more causal yeah what
causes what to come back to your circular causality uh which is important for the brain because i know
well with the exception of some um corticobasic ganglia connections there are no connections in
the brain that are not recurrent to everything all of some organization is inherently circular
um but to come back to your your what was this um did people realize that this was a moonshot
moment or there were people so there were people for example people like semizeki who was one
you know the uk's um great and good in terms of understanding uh functional anatomy but all of
his life and all of his uh intellectual forefathers could only have very limited views of what how the
brain was put together either through neuropsychology looking at the the lesion deficit um model in the
sense that if i leave a little part of the brain what function is is lost although using um in
electrophysiology just to measure one little part of the brain at a time or indeed is even um
possibly even one neuron a neural population at a time so no one had actually looked at the entire
brain in action um in a context sensitive way previously so i think for for neuroanatomists
and neurophysiologists who had spent their lives either doing neuropsychology or neuroanatomy or
doing neurophysiology in animal models that this was a remarkable moment i mean there was a degree
of um not physics only but some imaging envy from these people who couldn't actually get access to
so it wasn't all uh joy and and back slapping
because you know um you know what i do remember quite acutely is the monkey electrophysiologists
got very cross with the um the young uh turks that were doing all this brain imaging
simply because they could acquire their data in one week take a week to analyze the data and then
write a paper and it would always get into nature because it was such an exciting new technology
whereas the poor monkey electrophysiologists would spend two years training that monkey
acquiring the data carefully in a crafted way uh for six months spend a year arguing with
the viewers before they get their paper published and they just could not understand why you could
short circuit all of this hard work and crucially of course you were brain imaging was attracting
all the talent all the young phd students now wanted to do brain imaging so there was a lot
of tension in that paradigm shift that basically took cognitive signs into the area of cognitive
neuroscience i think you you could really um say that neuro brain imaging of this kind neuro
imaging of this kind um so made cognitive science into a neuro biological science should be because
now you have an empirical measurement of the culture mechanics that people have been studying
up and up until that time and i didn't know that remember i came from psychiatry and theoretical
neurobiology and i had no experience with monkey electrophysiology or neuropsychology
so for me it was just quite just the thing to do you just fit sort of perfectly in the time
where that's what you learned to as your skill set right very very lucky but again if you
disrupt upon doing what you're told this thing needs to be done i'm not sure i believe you always
just do what you're told but i mean was it was it really so or maybe it's it there is a kind of um
what's i don't think you meditate or anything but there's a kind of
meditative sense to you and your work that you do sort of stay in a flow is that just been natural
for you since those early years that you kind of found a way to flow with life i know i'm being
i'm simplifying it but is that kind of what you mean by doing what you're told or was it really
just yes i think that would be a nice way of describing it so you just have to make
um listen to the right people well make the right choices on the basis of what you're being asked
to do at each point and it you're as long as those choices are contextualized with an overall
direction trouble but not too worried about the particular choice at hand um then you do
quite naturally flow along absolutely it's a very nice way to describe it
and there's something about also getting a perspective and an overview because you have
to choose which person you're going to listen to because a lot of people will be telling you
what to do or could be telling you what to do so yes um yeah well um as you get older there are
more people who want to tell you what to do oh really as you get older oh yes yes because
you get more famous and more people start to think that you should be doing that
when you're young you're just grateful for the opportunity to do something and so it wasn't
quite as difficult to make those choices as it would be nowadays so this is one part of why
you're so famous and everyone wants to tell you what to do is because you created these amazing
software things that now everyone uses in your i think your double in the h-index and quoted more
than anyone a lot because of that because everybody's using it but you mentioned this
unconscious inference from him old and that moves into another thing that you're famous for which
is this active inference free energy principle there's a lot of connections there but i want
to just this word bothers me because i wonder about him old unbevus to schluss unbevus to schluss
yeah i know german but i sound terrible saying it sorry everyone but as i understand that that's an
unconscious conclusion or statement or something like this so why is it translated as inference
because this gets to some of the confusion i have personally about for example the image of the
brain with the brain itself or life flowing along in the in a way with metacognition life knowing
that it's flowing along could you just maybe tell me how you came across him old and what this word
means for you the unconscious inference right yeah well again an excellent question which has
so many different answers that present themselves to get to some foreground the points you're making
um first of all um inference is read here in a very generic sense um and it's just read in the
sense of indeed reaching a conclusion on the basis of some evidence it just so happens that in um
Helmholtz's unconscious um inference um the evidence at hand is his sensory input
but you know the notion of inference here is just basically explanation to the you know to
or an explanation predicated upon evidence the evidence what the evidence what what is
um the thing that has the attribute of evidence well it's a conclusion it's a hypothesis it's a
model um so that conclusion of alternative conclusions or hypotheses that has the greatest
evidence is the one that you normally commit to and that committing is a process and it's
a process that can be described as inference but it's also a process that can be described in terms
of dynamics and physics so you could argue um that everything is or can be read as or described
as a process of inference it it looks as if it is measuring something or observing something
so i'm quite happy happy treating synonymously inference um measurement observation
computation all of these things are just different words for the same um underlying process that
entails some optimization of the evidence for your modeling of either your data and your
in dynamic causal modeling for example or um of your sensorium and notice because it's a process
it is a flow it is literally a flow and indeed the free energy principle or the the classical
physics derivation of the free energy principle starts with a flow equation it just says if the
world can be written down or if some universe can be written down in terms of the way that
my states or any state in the universe flows as a function of where you are in state space
that's it that's that's what the starting point of the free energy principle and all you're saying
is of this particular flow blows um a gradient or in a direction that maximizes the evidence
for an implicit model and then you have to get into the game of a model of what well the model
of everything that's causing my sensory inputs or my data and then you have to carefully define
the boundary that defines that set me up the sensory inputs from the world out there from
the thing that's doing the sense making so for me it's a mark of blanket sort of absolutely yeah
that is exactly the money is the mark of blanket or the boundary that separates you from everything
else and the universe impresses itself very much in the spirit of helmholtz's version
of sensations impressing themselves on your sensory veil on your sense sensory epithelia
that would just be the sensory sector of your mark of boundary or your mark of blanket and then
that induces some flow on the inside and that flow is inevitably not necessarily under the
free energy principle um describe it you can describe it as a principle because it's maximizing
the the basic model evidence for the underlying um or the implicit generative model of what's
going on so yeah i think that's yeah for me flow and in the service of regional conclusion
you know is just a description of it of existence so it would look like things are measuring things
it would look like things are uh observing things and crucially just to bring in your
circular causality again of course it's not that we're just passive sessile
ingestants and assimilators of the flow of sensory input we can now act upon the world
to sample and direct that flow so you've now got this interesting circular perception action cycle
the circular causality to the inside and the outside where i'm trying to make sense through
a process of inference of the data that i am myself creating through action and if i can do
that gracefully for a long period of time i am basically in tune with my environment with my
world i have this adaptive fitness in the sense of edelman's value this generic notion of value
to come back to our earlier conversation yeah and that's actually a good description of what i was
trying to describe as what you meant by doing what people told you to do but carl this part is
really hard for me and i hope it's okay we already time is flying by but i really hope we can dig
into this just a minute because i find it so confusing and also so inspiring that what you
just said that there you start with the flow that flow that is the first equation and i feel like
what what a lot of your work with the free energy principle in active inference does is
give a model to that ongoing process that can't ever be fully modeled and it does it in a way
that such that the model itself can continue to change and evolve because the process has to
continue and to change and evolve which is a very different kind of math and a very different kind
of statistics and i think related to why bayes bayesian statistics is involved but just this
unconscious inference versus unconscious conclusion i wonder what you think for me
it seems like what himholz was talking about or what you even are or just describing is
that life process that can't be separated it's not inferring in the way at least not in the
everyday use of that term in the sense that something is setting against itself in making
a decision it feels more like that flow or that alignment such that for example my body comes in
and every single thing that it's encountering it has to not be molded by but in a sense be molded
by fit to i guess would be a word some people use fitting to the world and the brain part of that
a very big part of that and then out of that same continuity and that same flow we can begin to
recognize the ways that we've aligned and start to make something like inferences
that's how it seems for me so then when i i don't hear those things distinguished
maybe they don't need to be distinguished or maybe i just misunderstand it but does that
make sense to you at all no it does absolutely i think i think we certainly need to be distinguished
so let me just be very clear about the way that people like me use the word inference
so notice that unconscious inference immediately tells you this is not about a propositional
declarative subjective explicit act it's not a mental act at all this is something
unconscious exactly exactly so i think what you're saying is that if we now want to have
conclusions and inferring things in a propositional way that i could actually
articulate not just to something else but to myself then you'd certainly need to have now
a meta inference a meta cognition that's looking at your unconscious very low level processes of
the kind of thermostat could be accused of having you could argue that a thermostat is an instance
a very very simple one but it is an instance of unconscious inference in the sense that it has
a prior Bayesian belief and again i'm using belief here not in the vernacular it's just a
description of a Bayesian probability distribution but you could argue that the
thermostat as a Bayesian belief that the temperature of this room should be at a fixed set point
and everything that it does all the way that it acts upon the environment is to make that
belief come true so it's basically doing active inference it's just inferring what the cause of
its thermoreceptors is and if it deviates from its prior Bayesian belief it will act upon
all the world to realize its priority but no point would you say that the
thermostat is thinking or has any awareness or is making decisions or reaching any conclusions
i think you then need a layer on top of a myriad of coupled thermostats
for you and me of course these would be autonomic reflexes and motor reflexes
you're truly embodied the brain and the body perspective and you'll be looking at that and
you may have to do that several times before you've got to this is not a pine to know that you are
proceeding to know that you are engaging in unconscious inference consciously requires an
enormously elaborate kind of generative model and interestingly you know from the point of
view of writing down the kind of models that you need to be able to do this kind of medical
mission and have self-awareness they have a hierarchical depth so you're now very much in
the same sort of architectural space as deep learning so the deep in deep learning to says
you've got hierarchical depth so i think that's what you're talking about and it's really you
know you mentioned you've mentioned a couple of times you know this um the way that we understand
the world um very often can be cast in terms of a dichotomy or a binary um kind of representational
state space i think that's very insightful i would read that as basically
um curbing nature at its joints in order to understand that um and certainly that's been
my experience in computational modeling and it's been a move away from these continuous um flow like
generative models at the periphery near our sensations as we get deeper and deeper and
these models they'll become very categorical you know for example words you know there's no
um you know there is no sense in which a particular word saying definite article
has any continuous representation it's just what it is as opposed to another word so i i think
the way that we carve nature at its joints as in store in these generative models does speak to
this simple binary categorization at some point that we could articulate and actually talk to
ourselves about them and you know and communicate not just with other people but also you know with
ourselves at that uh that's a very very deep and abstract in kind of inference which now may encroach
upon conscious inference and awareness and experience in the way that i've carved my
world at its joints and my world is largely all about me and my body and my interactions with
other things that have bodies like me i infer minds like me so yeah i often get told off as
talking about some beliefs um in my world a belief is just a probability distribution so you talk
quite freely about Bayesian belief updating so a thermostat can do Bayesian belief updating
of course it's a very trivial kind but it does it um and so you know the Bayesian aspect means
that it is not the vernacular kind of belief so i'm assuming when you talk about conclusion you
actually meant a conclusion that i was aware of that i've committed to this as a as opposed as
opposed to that and that would require a very special kind of artifact or phenotype or system
um you know beyond uh i i would imagine um insects or even some small small mammals
it would require something like you a beach you know as it is by communication language for example
yes thank you there's so many things i want to say in that i think maybe the thermostat is
something that could help me unpack this i think what i meant by conclusion wasn't
again i know you said like languages can be distinguished but even that we're coming from
a perspective and oftentimes we use the same words in different ways and that's part of what gets so
confusing here and why i'm looking deeply into this word inference and conclusion but i really
meant more something kind of at one with itself like it's closed together or something but that
doesn't necessarily mean static um but let's let me think about the thermostat because
this is a big philosophical problem there's all kinds of people writing about whether
you know can we apply certain things to thermostats consciousness and so on but
i think it's very different that flow that we started with and what the equations are talking
about being it's it's dynamic and it has its own trajectory you're often talking about
things referring back to their own past um like sampling their own going back to where to their
own habits or patterns in a way this this dynamic flow is very hard to talk about but that that is
itself already a trajectory that's always changing but that we can sort of go back to and revisit i
mean that's what memory is in a way and i don't think a thermostat has that um that continuity
or it doesn't have affordances that apply only to its own trajectory was how i would say it's
almost a distinction between living and non-living right so um the affordances of the thermostat are
our affordances and they apply to our ongoing trajectory so i guess what i'm saying is exactly
that's the difference for me that the thermostat is going to just be doing what it's doing
mechanically and it's built on a binary way that we've understood ourselves and so we can create
sort of a little model or representation of what a body does in the thermostat to help control
the room and like that sort of seems the direction of that technology in relation to
the flow for me but what i'm talking about is like actual life and how we
we are a bit like life becoming aware of itself as life and i think your work helps us understand
that it's putting a kind of mathematics on letting us glimpse at that process but i often
hear it described more like the way that was describing the thermostat which confuses me
because it seems it i feel like we can see beyond the binaries a bit even though they've been so
helpful and this might be a way to do that but we keep trying to fit everything back into those binaries
I think that that was an excellent deconstruction of a key distinction between the thermostat and
you and me and i think that everything rests upon what you said in relation to where is the
affordance so if you wanted and i am flattered and pleased that you think that the free energy
principle might afford a mathematical image of the distinction between life as well as the
distinction between life as we know it or since life is as if inspired things like you and you
and me that is not a characteristic of the thermostat and i think the bright line between
thermostats or what's governors or viruses and the kind of life that you're talking about
i say prions not viruses but viruses that are alive
is all rests upon this notion of affordance so just think what affordance is an attribute of
it is an attribute of what i can do and as soon as you say i and do you've brought two really big
things to the table that the thermostat doesn't have first of all the thermostat has no notion
of itself and crucially it doesn't know what it's doing whereas to have affordance you have
to have a generative model that can generate the consequences of your own action and if those
consequences are apt for the kind of thing that you are and conform to your preferences that define
that attracting set you're talking about you're returning to time and time again to these
characteristic states that constitute the the preferred states of being on the technically
the attracting the attracting states and define the kind of thing that you are
if you can do if you can run out into the future and evaluate the consequences of this action or
that action then you can evaluate the affordance so now the game is to try and if you like
mathematicalize up how would you write that down in terms of the principle of least action
and it's actually quite simple and you your you could argue that people like Richard Feynman
were doing this during his PhD thesis you know excuse me and you know many decades ago so all
you need to do is to under your model of the consequences of your action in the future
just roll out and measure the value for me that would be the free energy you would expect
if you committed to this course of action in the future and then you add up all the values and that
can be cast as a path integral and the addition of all the energies is known as an action in physics
and then you find the path of least action and so the path of least action into the future under
this plan or that plan the things that I do now describes the best kinds of action and then you
can simulate that and now you have I think a much more expressive kind of physics that does not
apply to a thermostat but would apply to you if you make choices about the things that you could
do in the world you could respond to affordances and not just affordances of the kind oh I can sit
in that chair we're talking about a much more generic notion of affordance which is that which
minimizes your uncertainty about the world which can also be read as an epistemic affordance
which basically makes us curious creatures so I think that's the difference between a thermostat
and what could I even argue a large language model and you and me is that we have epistemic
affordances built into our beliefs about the kind of thing that we are and then we just select the
path of least action but the path of least expected free energy to commit to because that's the kind
of thing that we do that we end up watching television shows reading books doing podcasts
asking questions of each other simply because the kind of thing we are this is these are the
attracting paths these are the attracting states and notice that in so doing now we've again got
another bright line between the thermostat and you and me because we're not talking about one
particular state and being we're talking about a very itinerant attracting set that is constantly
evolving and we're always chasing away uncertainty always chasing away expect surprise always chasing
away epistemic entropy always on the move the world is always moving and as you say
it's not about finding the perfect state of being it's finding the best fit to a constantly changing
world and it's always constantly changing because you're changing it for me and I'm changing it for
you so as soon as we put two things like us together we guarantee that we're going to be
learning from each other and constantly changing the thermostat on the other hand has an attracting
set which is technically a fixed point attractor so all roads lead to one point it's too hot it'll
cool things down it's too cold it'll heat things up that's not the kind of attracting set that
characterizes life and certainly not you and me so the attracting set that we're talking about
is enormously space-filling I can be in many many different states and still be me
but I have a lawful flow from one of these attracting states to another one so this is what
I meant by flow flowing on this attracting set or since one attracting manifold where that manifold
or that attracting set is all consistent with the kind of thing that I am and it's incredibly
itinerant technically space-filling that has no volume in the sense there's only a very small
number of all the states I could be in that are consistent with me living and being alive so I
I gotta come back to your notion of flow because you're mathematically this is just a flow on an
attracting set and those flows trace our paths of least action and the action is the expected
free energy or uncertainty or surprise you can write it another way and instead of trying to
minimize expected energy you're trying to maximize the expected evidence for your model of the world
that dictates the direction of flow on this manifold so on that view life would really
be defined in terms of the space-filling attracting set as soon as you have something
that's not a point attractor like a thermostat what that tells you immediately
is it's going to be this you know you you look quite explicit about returning to
various states of being and what would that look like well it would look like very complicated
oscillations so for example at every scale so it could be the kind of oscillations that
Uri Bezaki my friend Yuri loves to talk about here in terms of
fast gamma oscillations or other kinds of rhythms in the brain but also at different
scales and different parts of me for example my cardiac cycle has exact incitinerant quasi
periodic orbit you can go beyond that you can go right through to fluctuations over the month
over the year and indeed at an evolutionary time scale this reproduction itself is this life
cycle so wherever you look there's this characteristic dynamic that speaks to cycles
of rhythms and oscillations that are not part of the thermostats attracting set which is just
sitting at one point and what that means for basically if you do have a point attractor that
means you're dead and that basically means you have attained an equilibrium steady state
where you're now subject to the laws of your schoolboy physics laws and you start to dissipate
and decay as your free energy minimizes so just keeping yourself away from this fixed point
attractor in the flow literally all the time on this attracting set is exactly what the
fear and your principle is trying to is trying to describe yes and i think that's why affordance
is so helpful here or why it even opens up affordance in a new way i think of jj gibson
talking about wanting to overcome subject object dichotomy just to get back to that theme of
dichotomy and binary and how i see this as pushing out of that because to have an affordance it
requires this looping relationship depending on from wherever you're going to try to measure it
there's always going to be and we keep talking about circles and that's another thing that
bothers me a bit because a circle seems to always come back exactly to where it started
but we're sort of coming back to where we started but it's a new place always it's more of a
spiral i mean we're never coming back exactly to where we are or but the regularities and the
pattern is enough such that it's the same sort of place that we're sampling is that does that make
sense no absolutely technically that's what i would describe in terms of stochastic chaos
so when i'm writing carefully for an informed reader i will say to the neighborhood of where
you once were you never ever man stepped in the same river twice but you can be in the same locale
so these attracting sets are not circles and they're not points and you know if you were dead
and they are right they are regimes and so you have to be in the neighborhood and you're always
being pushed off this attracting set by random fluctuations in the physics version of the
fear and your principle but i'll draw back through this flow since flow just keeps you close to so
yeah every day you'll go through the same routine but you'll never be in exactly the same state
twice but you've been pretty close and that even if everything changes it could be the regularities
are similar there with some dimensions that are replicated absolutely and that's an important
point that you know many of these dimensions of these state spaces are very forgiving yeah i can
be me in melbourne and i can be me in london but i can only be me between 36.2 and 37.8 degrees
centigrade so some of the things that characterize me and indeed sometimes one talks about the
characteristic set of states that characterize a particular entity for example me as being the
members of this attracting set some of them are very very precise but some of them are very
forgiving so you know depending upon what attribute you're looking at you know things
could be vastly different but from another perspective yeah you're exactly at this temperature
or you're having your evening meal at eight o'clock pm just like you were yesterday
there are these sort of sweet spots but i think that that reminds me of when you were talking
about measurement and that requires that we understand we're always measuring from a particular
point or perspective so if we're going to measure from the cell or we're going to measure from the
whole human body or we're going to measure from then those parameters are going to look
a bit different too which sort of opens up this fracticality or something that i wanted to talk
to you about in terms of getting through the binary but to get into that so a free energy
the free energy principle basically states you could say it better but systems change
so as to decrease their free energy some people say to to sort of avoid entropy or there's
confusion here for me between free energy and the entropy of the free energy or how free energy
and entropy might be different maybe you could help me or we could unpack that just a minute
just to link it to that fracticality i'm talking about it seems to me from different perspectives
what's free energy or what's entropy or those parameters are also shifting like maybe some
system's entropy is another's energy or vice versa but i wonder what you think about that
yes i think that's absolutely right well you said three key things there first of all the
the fractional dimension how the fractality of these things i i tend to not to use that because
fractal has a very specific meaning in the context of
chaotic attractors and the dimensionality as said before these the attracting sets of things like
you and me are space filling but with low measure and effectively the fractal fractional dimension
measures the dimensionality of the actual space that is actually occupiable by
by any given particle or person what i tend to prefer is scale free or scale invariant
and i think that's what you're talking about so you can apply the free energy principle
at all scales all the way down and all the way up so you can apply it to a single cell
and indeed it's been applied to tentative reorganization you can also apply it to entire
behavior of the embodied brain you could even apply it in principle as people have them to
communities exchanging beliefs or emails or modeling the extended beliefs and emails and
messages so you can apply to many many different scales and of course each scale provides the
context of the scale below so i can't have a free energy minimizing almost sort of thermostat like
single cell unless i have a particular organ or organelle
and i can't have an organ unless i've got a body and i can't have a body unless i've got a family
and i can't have a family as an institution i can't have an institution unless i've got a country i
can't have a country unless i've got a biosphere i can have a biosphere and so on and so forth
at every level the way in which you measure things or describe things should in principle
conform to the free energy principle there's always a description of this in terms of some
kind of inference it can be really elemental like a thermostat or the blue going around the sun
but notice again the circular aspect that you know the rhythm of the heavenly bodies
and very large scales or it could be much more intricate and space-filling and itinerant of the
kind that we talked about that would apply to our scale of say from multiple cells multicellular
organization through to say a body so i think that scale invariance is vitally important and
you should always remember there's always a scale above that contextualizes the scale both in space
and time that you're applying the free energy principle to and there's always a scale below
there's also microscopic scale below that is if you like feeding the key order parameters
or macroscopic variables that you're dealing with in terms of applying the free energy principle
so i think that that was an important point remind me what wells you you said about three
things which were really quite yeah there were too many things in there i was talking about
entropy and energy and whether the yeah what they what's different from free energy
and the entropy of the free energy or or if one system's entropy can be another system's energy
that's right that was a father to you and and you're on some fairly heuristic thermodynamic
explanation or thermodynamic account of variation free engine minimization that is absolutely true
that i would require free energy in order to do my belief updating my inference even if i was a
thermostat and there are some physics principles that say how that works and indeed chris fields
a colleague and friend of mine who has pursued a quantum theoretic formulation for energy
principle has a very explicit set of arguments about the thermodynamics of this often read in
terms of that we are offloading energy into the environment in order to do to maintain our
organization and lots of different ways of articulating them however you don't need to
get into the thermodynamics i think to answer the question you're answering that asking which i think
is quite crucial which is going to get a bit technical but i think it's quite important to
understand it so entropy is just a description of a probability distribution a little bit like the
mean of something or the variance of something so there is no one entropy but whenever there's a
probability distribution there is an entropy so you have to say the entropy of what so the the
entropy that you're trying to minimize when you're invoking the free energy principle
as a simple explanation or description of things that resist the second law of thermodynamics should
it apply then we're talking about the entropy of the mark of boundary states on the sensory
states so what we're saying is that certain things in virtue of maintaining themselves
on their attracting manifold or within their attracting set or within their characteristic
states certain things that have this generalized homeostasis have a very low dispersion to the
sensory states that they express and that has a low entropy so the entropy the sensory entropy
is just the average of the certain self-information or the surprise and all
the free energy so the free energy scores in information theory the self-information
often summarized in terms of surprise or surprise all and you want to keep that small at the
ab the entropy of the set the sensory entropy is the average or the free energy so if you keep the
free energy small all the time basically avoid surprising sensory samples from the world
that you are going to minimize your sensory entropy and that's the entropy that has been
minimized and that means that you don't dissipate your sensory states those observable states on
your mark of blanket do not dissipate it of dissolving to the environment you you maintain
your self-organization through minimizing the average self-information of the sensory states
then meet the sensory entropy now there's another entropy which is
which is actually maximized so remember free energy is equal to energy total energy minus
entropy so if i want to minimize my variational free energy i now want to maximize my variational
entropy what is the variational entropy it's the entropy of my Bayesian beliefs about the causes
of my sensory input so you've got this completely opposite yin yang you want to
explain things that minimize their sensory entropy the entropy of over time of real
deterministic sensory inputs and they're actually from the world as well but the market you know
everything that constitutes mark of blanket whilst and you do that by maximizing the entropy
of your beliefs and this is very very confusing to people but it's a shame because once you realize
it's important to maximize your Bayesian maximize the entropy of your Bayesian beliefs the internal
or the if you like representational entropy you can now see that the free energy principle is
due to something which is very important in physics which is james's maximum entropy principle
so maximum entropy there is a maximum entropy principle which is talks about not the thing
that is being measured but the inferences of that measurement so if you want to infer how long
if you're measuring something then you want a probability a belief about the
cause of your measurement in the outside world that is as non-committal as possible to keep
your options open and this is very closely related to things like occam's principle
finding the simplest explanation possible but no simpler finding an accurate explanation that is
minimally complex and that's why you need to maximize the entropy that is put together with
the accurate with the the energy or the the log likelihood to constitute the variation free energy
so it can be very confusing but it actually works very very beautifully once you realize that there's
no there's no one entropy you either talk about the entropy of your sensory exchanges with the
world or you can talk about the entropy of your inferred beliefs basing beliefs encoded by your
internal states and one you have to try to maximize in order to minimize the other one
does that help wonderful i love that because i'm always talking about trying to hold the paradox
in a way because i feel like that's where you start to get exactly what you just did and by
hold the paradox i don't mean we squish together the parts or try to resolve them or reconcile them
or that the paradox is bad but that you just open the space for it in the way you just did describing
that and then there's a kind of another view that becomes possible and again that relates to this
idea i'm trying to push a little bit of how to get unstuck from certain binary
ways of being in the world this gets to bigger issues because a lot of this science and philosophy
that we're talking about reverbiates in this through these very same processes we're talking
about into all other areas of life so when we're discussing these i think we're also discussing
that at a different level it's why i brought up fractals and i'm very interested that you don't
like that word and i also use multi-scale or scale free and maybe that's a better way of describing
it but i think people are attracted to the idea of fractal for the reason i just brought up that we
can start to understand that there are similar patterns maybe at these different scales and
which is what i think again correct me but something like the maths that you're providing
show the patterns that connect at these different scales i don't know if you would agree with that
how you would see that or if what you just said is an example of how there might be another way
of understanding how these different kinds of systems can look different from different places
i guess another way of asking this question is there only one correct model or can there be
many different models depending where we've set all of our experimental parameters and so forth
right yes yes and yes
so yeah don't worry about using fractal it's just technically you get this
similar patterns at different scales within the definition of scaling variance and you're
absolutely right you know what the free energy principle is committed to is that the pattern of
self-organization read in terms of the dynamics or the flow on a lagrangian or in this instance the
free energy is conserved exactly at each level you have to renormalize the variables and the
like but the actual pattern of the flow is identical in its functional form so that's
exactly what you know what defines the scaling variance and certainly a an application of things
like the renormalization group to the free energy principle of applying the free energy
principle in the context of the renormalization group so you know the spirit of fractal is exactly
what underwrites this application the spirit of fractal that's a better way of saying it more
than like a mandelbrot set or something it's the spirit of what fractal means i think you want to
talk about self-similarity and i think that's exactly similarity yeah um yes yeah so forgive
me when i when i said i don't i do use the word fractal it's just that i read that as fractional
dimension whereas i think what you mean is this fundamental aspect which of this self-similarity
and 40 multi-scale perspectives on the same thing at different levels of analysis or different
scales of analysis which is the only way of i think um sort of breaking i'm now understanding
more clearly what you meant by binary you mean a sort of commitment just it's either like this or
it's not um and of course that's exactly what you're trying to avoid with uh the view of the
free energy principle as a maximum entropy principle or a constrained maximum entry principle
so i i use the phrase before keeping your options open so as you as you try to form a belief about
what's out there or an explanation about what you know what could have caught us because
the sensory well this um sensory trajectory you're trying to do it in a way that keeps your
keeps your options open and there could be lots of possible explanations
so you're not committing to one if you commit to one particular binary
um hypothesis or explanation for these data then you are basically
limiting yourself in a very dangerous way because that particular explanation will not generalize
so you see this practically in machine learning for example where you have a very brittle
explanation too many parameters you maximize the accuracy but you haven't you haven't done so
in a way that keeps your options open by minimizing the complexity so you know i think
so the non-binary where we're reading binary now is a very discrete unitary explanation for things
that doesn't have much riddle room that's exactly the wrong way to do things you know you need to
maximize the entropy and thereby minimize the free energy and maximize the uh effectively the uh the
evidence for your uh for the evidence in the data for your particular model of what's going on
so i think i think that is a very comfortable argument you could certainly make there from
first principles and you know including non-disciplinary principle but james's
maximally actually principle that you could then relate back to hawkins principle that um you know
keeping your mind open and finding the simplest explanation that's the way that things generalize
and that's the best way to to to reach understanding or explanation uh explanation for the world and
then you uh the final point you made about the dangers of being binary i think you addressed it
or i don't even remember my own thing now but i can't unless you remember but there's something
you just opened up there too that was beautiful and thank you and i want to think about hierarchies
a little bit are you still okay for just a little while yes of course okay so the hierarchies is
obviously a very important word in your work and in all of this and i want to talk about it in two
ways one how the difference between the model and the brain or the ongoing flow and process
keep bringing it up but first this fracticality that's the spirit of fracticality or multi-scale
competency i think that's levin or these different ways we're trying to open up beyond the binary
in and the math is opening up i think bayesian statistics opens it up because it implies the
subjectivity that people often accuse it of because you have to you can set your priors and
that's going to account for these different perspectives maybe in a way that we've been
talking about but to make it a little more grounded when you're talking about something
like hierarchy you often talk about the low road or the high road or open or closed or there's
the way we understand it is right now through these kind of binaries although most usually i
feel like the answer is that it's open and closed it's low and high it's just that we're using these
ways to talk about it so i wonder what if that sounds true to you i wonder when you're really
thinking about the brain itself and its hierarchical composition if you see it as something more
along the lines of this nested multi-scale not necessarily linear from high to low maybe it
could be from left to right and in all directions in a more fractal or multi-scale sense if that's
more akin to what you're meaning by hierarchy because i think it often gets taken as almost
like in a class system or something it steps up the ladder and i think that's also a confusion at
least it feels like one sometimes to me right no well again that's absolutely right so in virtue
of the spirit of fractality and the self-similarity out there that we now have to make sense of and
in fact implicitly more that immediately tells you that the apt good models of the data generated
by this multi-scale self-similar world must itself have a self-similar structure
and that's what i mean by a hierarchy so it literally means there is a dip to the
causal explanations you bring to the table that is not binary in the sense and that was your
third point in the sense that there are multiple levels of hierarchical abstraction so you can
and each level constrains the other so there's no one privileged level that in your head you
literally have cortical hierarchies that represent the same kinds of things but different levels of
abstraction and course grading over different time courses so there's no one privileged level
of explanation there's no one privileged conclusion depends upon which part of the brain
you're looking at in terms of the structure of these things i often think of this not in terms
of a ladder a subsumption hierarchy but much more in terms of a series of concentric spheres
so for me what's on the outside is basically our sensory epithelia and our actuators
and then as we get further and further in monosynaptic neural connection by neural
connection you get further and further further and you get deeper and deeper and deeper into
inner layers and then what that creates is now a view of the brain for example where
this surface like like a big onion so in the same way that an onion has an element layered
structure it has a deep concentric structure one can also envisage certainly the connectivity of
the brain conforming to the same kind of architecture and as you get deeper and deeper things
in the center can see much more of the range of the surface so if i had this third of the onion
was auditory and this third was interceptive then at some point there's going to be a deep
representation can see both now these become now a modal representations that basically explain
causes of my sensations in both an auditory and an interceptive modality and what also tends to
happen in the mechanics of this is that your your belief structures your your the states the
latent states sometimes called hidden states that are represented by neuronal dynamics
cover more extended periods of time again in a self-similar way in the way that you zoom out
in a mountain broke set you're also zooming out in time it's in this in the flow which means that
as you get deeper and deeper and deeper you are representing things that can be read as the context
that lasts longer than the content at the level below all the more superficial levels as you
you get right out here very fast reflexes at the at the um the periphery uh so that's what i mean
by hierarchy i'm talking about a very particular um sparsity structure and sparse causal structure
where uh that defines a hierarchy in the sense that um you only have connections or circular
causality between subjacent or adjacent levels of hierarchy but it's a concentric one uh you know
as a certain closure it probably is a heterarchy so it probably isn't a nice orderly onion
but you know it it you know maybe a broccoli a broccoli made of broccolis i mean i i love the
onion thing but it's it's even feels too constraining for me because it seems so
neat and that you have these layers and it's just but it's more like there's or i see it more as
there's many onions within onions and depending on yes like you don't see all the other onions
you think you're in one onion but if you kind of went to a different perspective you'd be in a
whole other onion and all those layers are sort of overlapping in different ways does that make
sense yes absolutely i mean there's a little literature out there in terms of mark of black
kids of mark of black kids and you know bags of onion then bags of bags of onions and yeah
this goes on forever yeah absolutely yeah and it has to go on forever because of this self-similarity
so it has to go on to the biggest and add to the smallest but of course there is no biggest and
there is no smallest because that depends on your position right so there can be
infinite kinds of big bigger or smaller depending where you're going to shift your
position of measurement which i think this is really like a hard paradox to hold because we
have trouble getting out of the position we're in uh to understand that but maybe that's what
technology helps us do and math in a way yes absolutely well but yeah what comes to mind
when you said that sort of the use of microscopes and telescopes try to reach up into larger scales
and reach down into smaller scales and of course you could have mathematical microscopes if you're
clever but i think there's something you know you talk about holding the paradox before i think you
have to hold the fact that you cannot see beyond this too many scales above simply because you
don't last long enough so remember unlike the mandelbrot set there is also self-similarity in
time things last for shorter periods of time at any particular scale rather than scale above
which means me as an observer of the universe cannot last long enough to observe one slow
or one part of the scale at the scale above furthermore when i look down things change
they don't exist for long enough to be measurable and if you think about what that means at a very
small scale something cannot be actually measured because it doesn't last long enough to be measured
that's quantum physics so now all we can talk about is the probability distribution of things
if i were able to measure it but now i can just talk about the bag or the probability distribution
of a measurement because it's changed so quickly i can never actually measure it so you know there
are there are limits on the mic the depth that you can look down over scales you know using even
using technological extensions such as microscopes at some point you know you can't do it so we
we're all coming back to you sort of dissolving the binary perspective and and celebrating
the perspectival or relational aspect of the way that we make sense of the universe
you know we are just tied to our scale and we can't see many more scales above or below
and that we can only sense make and exist within that particular scale or your one or two scales
about i think people think it's six in the sense that you can't fold a piece of paper more than
six times i think i'm sure oh he scales yeah but that's from our scale so it's very hard to hold
that that there might not even be necessarily this huge conflict for example between these
different kinds of physics and systems it might just be that we're positioning ourselves in places
where those different maths are going to work in the from those positions and not from others and
we could hold that paradox in a way that's what i meant by does it only have to be one model that
fits to everything because the more we learn how to put ourselves in different positions maybe
we're going to have to learn to hold the idea that different models work in those different
positions which is also very hard well i mean a lovely example of that is the difference between
say general relativity and quantum mechanics i mean that general relativity is about big things
and quantum mechanics is about very very small things i think scale really matters because of
this temporal dilation or you get with this sort of renormalization perspective so it could be the
same kind of thing but they are very very different models and yet they're completely consistent they
can be held together just because you could only apply to the scales up above and you apply the
quantum mechanics at the scale scales below i don't want to demean quantum information theory
there are quantum information theory is actually also scale free but quantum mechanics of small
particles where random fluctuations dominate that's limited to very very small things
this gets to the other sorry no i was gonna say if you were talking to mike levin um you know
his way of articulating those things only get interesting when you move from one cell or one
molecule to multiple cells or macromolecules you know when you're building up to higher scales
so things start to get interesting yeah i think mike and i have had had some conversations maybe
three already about different ways of thinking about scales in the biological sense so it
definitely applies and i think it also touches on this difference that i have been trying to
get at between the models and the process or the flow and how those get confused because there's
a lot of fighting about you know classical mechanics versus quantum this is this versus that
and it's hard to understand how they can be held in a space that we haven't explored yet right
but also i think part of the confusion can be at least from my point of view that it's too easy
to mistake the model for the reality and you think you're fighting about the reality but you're
fighting about the model and sometimes i feel this in the literature around free energy and i
wonder if it's for example when you say something like that you're using hierarchical no you i think
you say the brain uses hierarchical models correct me but it might be uses them in different contexts
but the brain is talked about as if the brain is using the model and for me that's a little
bit confusing because i feel like from our position we've understood that the brain is
working in a certain way and we've modeled it which can be different from the brain using a
model although the brain could perhaps be using a model for example in corollary discharge or
efferent copies or something like that maybe that's the kind of way in which the brain
is used the body is using its own model but i feel like these are different things and they
get confused or maybe i'm just confusing them but yeah i i think that um that confusion is
prevalent um in the philosophy literature although certainly the philosophy that um likes to um
shout about the free energy principle um and sometimes articulate in terms of the
math territory fallacy of the fallacy of the math territory well the math you're definitely not
saying that but it can i can understand how it easily sounds like that do you know if i do
i and when i sometimes i give up and sometimes i i lapse but um often when i um hear people write
down the brain uses a generative model i delete that and say um you know the the brain um entails
a generative model but that generative model is just implicit it's just a mathematical construct
that allows you to understand the flow literally the gradient flow on the variation free energy
yeah you say it all the time you also i've noticed you say describe it as a model or something like
this but it gets collapsed together i think yes it can do uh well that's entertaining though
somebody doesn't shout at me i tend to do something that i can't do uh but you know
i i think it's useful just to remind people um that you'll never quite know what the brain is
doing unless you break it unless you do something phase in physiology in which case it's not the
brain anymore so all you can do is infer and describe the um what you can see of me uh in
terms it looks as if i am doing belief updating under a generative model and therefore it looks
as if my brain and all the neural message passing entails a generative model and i can try and
reverse what kind of generative model would best explain my behavior and indeed that's quite a
practical application if you actually principle when it comes to things like psychiatry some
reverse engineering the generative model that would have been used if i wanted to explain this
behavior in light of these uh these these data so i think it's a useful construct when it comes to
simulation explanation because you'll never know because you can't you know whatever's going on in
my behind my Markov blanket is private to me uh by definition it's conditionally independent of
anybody observing me uh so you know to me it's it's it's um you know it's not a worrisome question
but it is a vex philosophical question yeah and i i know it must be annoying for you but i think
it has repercussions all the way up and into the side and in all directions in terms of the way
humans treat one another and the way we treat the world around us because when we confuse
our models in the processes that they're modeling something strange happens in terms of
the way we think about um perspective like what i hear you saying is that we always need to
understand we're modeling from a perspective and we're modeling a part of a process but
that gets lost completely and that seems like the important part that situatedness
which is why i'm just trying to bring it back up to bring the situatedness back into it
yeah and what important aspect of that situatedness um is the fact that i spent most of my life
inferring things about other people so i think that's that's something which which often gets
lost because once you recognize that your lived world is basically generated by other things like
you so you spend most of your generated modeling trying to infer predict understand other things
like you and then but perspective taking empathy attribution of agency um the theory of mind all
of these things now become really really important attributes of good generative models for a
community of conspecifics that live together you know these would not be issues if it was only me
on mars i wouldn't be a theory of mind but as soon as something like me like you i now need a
theory of mind of course then the as ifness now becomes from my point of view uh quite a useful
hypothesis or fantasy that provides a simple explanation for the way that you behave i think
you're conscious i think that you are inferring i think you are and i might be like you so perhaps
i am conscious yeah and then you get to these sort of meta levels it reminds me of the connection
and to try to bring it to love a little bit because this is love and philosophy uh i wonder
about you know when when you're the disconnection hypothesis right of that we started with way early
in your career with the schizophrenia patients and the cells were not connecting maybe they
were connecting in a different way um i wonder if this happens on larger levels and what you
were just talking about because we're trying to understand each other all the time as ways
of understanding ourselves and all this is very much entangled and i wonder if there's also ways
we get disconnected so to speak in this fractal way we were talking or if that's too metaphorical
and too going too far out or if you see that maybe there is some similarity self-similarity
to these sorts of things no i think i think that there absolutely isn't um indeed there are
simulations you know baby step simulations but certainly it's a great field uh applying the
pre-energy principle or specifically active influence in a ethological or social neuroscience
context indeed there are funded programs by the eu to look at to apply these ideas to look say
voting behavior population voting behavior there's some very nice simulations already out there
that exactly lead to to what you were talking about which is you know the segregation into
into in groups and groups that rests upon effectively me and furry whether you are like
me or not if i can infer that you are like me then you now interactions with you acquire an
epistemic affordance and then we can consolidate our beliefs but if i say you're not like me
then i am not going to associate interactions or communication with you with any epistemic
forms and i'm going to effectively at the same time as it as basically dehumanizing you because
um i now do not see you as the same kind of thing as me therefore you are not human
not only that but i will not listen to you i will uh or i will trade everything you say as fake news
so these are completely base optimal um you know sort of processes processes of inference at a
societal or interpersonal level beyond the dyadic and can be applied to some
information and even simulate the different conditions but all as you say rest upon the
fact that you are um you are taking a particular perspective and also uh taking the other person's
perspective if and only if they share with you the same um implicit generative model so if there's a
shared generative model a shared narrative a shared set of conclusion and i can infer so if
i can infer that there is a shared narrative that you are actually like me to share the same kind of
generative model then we can talk and you are part of my group if not then you know you are not not
part of me and that can lead to um you know uh the kind of segregation you might see in some reaction
diffusion systems where you get this sort of separation segregation which again i say is
completely base optimal and slightly paradoxical in the sense that you think that you know our job
is to be mutually predictable uh therefore we should all share sing from the same hymn sheet
so we can all predict ourselves that's not what happens when you break the symmetry um you know
unless if you took everything away apart from all you know all human beings
what might and made them speak the same language then you might get that kind of um relatively
unstable group dynamic uh but in the absence of that then that kind of segregation is going to be
an emerging property yeah it's almost like learning a new rhythm this we've touched on it
with the holding the paradox and the way you've described things which are quite difficult and
challenging to for one to be able to understand but i do feel this is a case in which working it
out mathematically and working it out in these difficult situations that are very practical in
terms of bodily and brain dynamics i do think there's a pattern there in the way we were talking
about regularities and that is not exactly the same parts but the process and the patterns maybe
could help us understand how to not do that segregation or to understand that certain ways
we're going to be segregated from others but if we move our position those regularities are going
to align differently and there are going to be ways in which we do connect with just about anyone
if we could figure out how to do that fractal dance which i think is really quite quite difficult
but i wonder if that rings true for you or if you've found in your own life that
living in that state of flow is a matter of being able to understand how to shift perspective
in that way a little bit yeah i think it comes back to doing what you're told to do to do what
you're told means you have to hear people to hear people means that you are not invoking
if i get a mathematical kind of sensory attenuation and i use the word sensory
attenuation because of your observation that what can apply the max and the mechanics of
computational psychiatry to societal interactions and i think that the ability to ignore the ability
to evaluate the epistemic affordance of interactions with that kind of person as very very small means
i'm going to ignore them effectively i'm going to attenuate any truthiness or precision
in relation to their exchanges their posts their messages their ideology
so that basically means i don't hear them if i don't hear them you can't do what you're told
so i think you're absolutely right being in the flow in the in the in the some more poetic sense
um really does require you to suspend sensory attenuation and to listen um and to well
both to listen and to also evaluate the precision of what you're of what you're hearing um and then
there will be an opportunity to reevaluate your prior conviction that this person is or is not
human for example you know thinking about the current you know pit crises and wars and all
exactly that's a very very beautiful way to think about it and it makes me wonder if that's you've
been your way of being in love of course we could all mean different things by love but
when you were talking i was thinking about presence and awareness that it takes to listen you have
there's a kind of stance where you step out of your narrative or yourself but more into your
whole body which means you're you are immersed in all that you think is not you that that flow
that we talked about or that place that you're in it it is a bit sentimental to say but you do need
something of motivation to go through a life doing the science that you've been doing it's a lot of
hard work and what you just described that's a way of for me that seems like letting the energy
refresh or it it shows me how maybe you were when you're in that flow it aids it helps
that process right uh yes um again for me i i have some respect for you as well i know no other way
um but it was nice to use the word motivation because the motivation is just the affordances
and the affordances are largely epistemic so that's just curiosity and to be curious means you have
to be able to hear to listen to listen is a some can be an act of of love to to listen and to act
to perceive and to act and in that way i think can also be an act of love in the most kind of
banal sense but the most important sense well carl i really appreciate your work and your
perspective and everything that you you do and i you know that's going to be a new year when i'm
publishing this is there anything you're looking forward to or any
anything you want to minimize any surprise you want minimized or what what what's your feeling
about the coming year no i'm afraid yes uh my dear new year's resolution will be to not make
any more new year resolutions so as you as you get older you just want to as you say minimize
your surprise and carry on and keep calm well that sounds good well i wish you the best and again
thank you very much is there anything that you want to make sure gets said i think we've said
all the important things thanks for spending this time my pleasure i've enjoyed speaking
yes happy christmas happy new year
you
