Hi, everyone. I'm back with another research diary where I ramble on and on in hopes of
discovering something I didn't know that I knew. Today, I want to talk about the words
way and making and also just try and talk about what am I doing? What's the point of
all this? This is on my mind because the channel's gotten popular, which is wonderful. Also,
that means you get a lot more feedback and stuff, which is good, too. Also, I've been trying to
write some papers and get some feedback on that, which I'm going to post about all that, too. I'm
going to post about the criticisms and the advice. But first, before I get into all of this, I just
wanted to try to talk about what I'm doing for myself because I think that's what these diaries
are. When I talk, I start to understand better my own thought process. I think sharing it,
what everyone is important, too, because it holds me accountable. So way-making. Why way and why
making? And also this term, is it too self-helpy for people in philosophy and science? I understand
that. I get that. Maybe it is, which is actually why in the papers I often use navigability.
And in my early writings, in my master thesis, I used navigation back before I understood that
other people were thinking along those lines. I had no idea of Michael Levin back then and others,
many of the people I've talked to. There's no new idea under the sun.
Um, so what am I doing then? You know, I think what I'm trying to do is
that I, something bothers me. And it's that I feel like we're trapped in a linear and dichotomous,
beyond dichotomies, what I called the research channel and love and philosophy. Um, but I feel
like we're trapped in this sort of way of like a flat world way of thinking of each other, our own
bodies, the world, the way we do science, you know, it's nested in our language. And what bothers
me about it is that we, we default to thinking, we default to an assumption that the way we experience
the world is the way everyone experiences the world. And we don't do this in some kind of mean
way. It's just very hard not to do this because of the way language and everything is set up.
We tend to think in either ors and contrasts, and this is not a bad thing.
Um, this is the way we've probably awakened in a way, but maybe it's time to move past that.
So what I'm trying to do in the philosophy and by linking it to the hippocampal research and linking
it to other biology research and, you know, sort of gathering, corralling all these different ideas
together and noticing the pattern, which I think is way making as the pattern or navigability.
What I'm doing is I'm trying to open up a space where we can maybe not think linearly about what
it is to experience life and to be. Being for me is way making and navigability. The navigation is more
like beings being. Intellect, cognition, intelligence. These are the navigabilities that help us connect
with one another, sense more, stay alive, and generally just be in the world and grow and do what life does.
But I think right now we're kind of closing that down a little bit in terms of thinking in a binary
way, whether it's, you know, in the way we think of social groups or even the way we think of ourself.
I think a lot of people are really hard on themselves these days because there's so much to compare
yourself to. And because we think in binaries, we're always thinking that it has to be either
our way or some way we see in the world, which is not true, actually. So I guess what I hope is to
open up this binary flat world, what feels like pressurized, trapped assumptions we have about self
and the ecological world and being and all its manifestations and try to help us develop habits
and assumptions that aren't binary. I mean, we're always going to have habits and assumptions, but maybe
we can begin to see multidimensionally or not see but sense multidimensionally and understand ourselves
as multidimensional and understand everything we encounter as able to be experienced from multiple
perspectives while at the same time shared. So could we have this more complex systems,
multidimensional fractalized understanding of the world and still have an intimate, grounded,
phenomenologically embodied experience of all that's going on? I think we can. I don't think
those are opposites and I don't think we have to choose between
embodied phenomenological acceptance and that there is no one static state or person or self.
That what we do is try to assess from all these different positions and so we kind of, you know,
we have the Markov blankets, we have the boundaries, the membranes and all of this. That's part of how we
communicate and and grow. But the being, the way making is multifaceted and there's a potential for us
to start to experience that and release some of this desire to be
a really static entity in the world that needs to be
followed and promoted and all of these things as that static thing that instead we can start
to maybe realize that we're having multidimensional experiences and so are those around us.
And so that means we're going to be wrong a lot and we're not going to actually understand what we
think we understand. And that's an opportunity. That's a portal. That's a new, that's a way into a new
sensory experience. So what does this have to do with weight making? Well, I think the term
term is for me, a good term to open up two things. One is how we imagine self and our own
spatial temporal phenomenological embodied position. And the other is to imagine what
a new way to imagine the spaces, the landscapes that that position is encountering
and the relation of those and the relation of both of those to all the other beings in the world.
It's a way of understanding, holding this paradox, which Fitzgerald said, I think that's the key to
genius or intelligence or whatever, to be able to hold two things in mind at once and not go crazy.
And it's not easy. But yeah, so it's able to understand yourself as multiple and multiplicity and
multiple dimensions as shared. And that means getting out of the idea that there are beginnings
and ends and that the nestedness is linear, that there's some scale that starts with a cell
and goes up to a human and ends up in AI. This is, I think, not correct. In fact, there are many,
many, many paths and there's not a linear kind of thing that goes from the smallest to the largest or
whatever. How do we get out of that way of thinking? I hope that we start to be able to visualize
through a complex systems or network dynamic. And so what I'm trying to do is sort of put language on
what maths with category theory, with complex systems theory, with a lot of different possibilities
are discovering and using now, but that we don't really have a language for in a common,
everyday way that can become a habitual way of thinking in the way that right now we think
habitually that there is self and other, there is I or we. How can we take on an ecological self,
a we perspective, and still embody, experience, believe in, know as real, our phenomenological,
embodied I. We can do this. And some of us are doing this, whether we know it or not, because
it's a capability, it's a possibility. And I think it's at best what our technology can help us do.
So that's what I hope to offer as a framework in a philosophical sense that's backed up by
many different examples that are scientific. A big thing to try to do, I know, and there's a lot
of pushback about even trying to do such a thing, but I really don't care. I'm just going to do it.
Because I think it's important for the challenges we face as individuals who are in a lot of pain and
feeling a lot of anxiety and trying to deal with certain mental, emotional, social issues on many
levels. And also as a planet that wants to be healthy and survive. And by planet, I don't really
mean like only the earth, but I mean every little fractal part of that earth trying to
make its way be. And the power that the human position as a nested part of that now has. So the idea
of waymaking is that we are beings in the world encountering statistical regularities. That's what we
do. And then the body aligns to it. We're born into this world and everything that comes at us,
we have to deal with in order to survive. And it's all on, on all levels. And as we do that,
we build certain habits and ways of being in the world. And all of this, this being is waymaking.
We come in as an agent, an individual, a spatiotemporal position that's unique and
nothing like anyone else. We're also inheriting a certain kind of phenomenological heritage that
we come into. So there's already a lot of paths that are easier to follow, so to speak,
they've already been made. And so we often in our own waymaking, which is always unique because we're
never just following one path, we're sort of combining and following and taking in all these other
ones to create our own path. But often we get into the ruts or the paths before us for good or for
bad that other people kind of thrust upon us just by talking to us and being around us without meaning
to. And for good reason, it helps us survive in the world. So that kind of gets me to the terms
themselves, the way and the making. The making is used because instead of finding, we're not only
finding our paths and trials and ways, we are actually making them. We don't have a choice.
Just by being alive, you're making way. If we want to survive, we're going to be making way.
We could follow other ways more than set off and try to find our own. And that's actually fine.
Part of it is even finding which ways you want to follow and putting those together into a new way.
That's wonderful. That's a wonderful life. But you're still making the way because you're never just
on one other person's path or way. And those are always changing. This word making is important
for me because it's about taking responsibility for our embodied agency and not only responsibility,
but loving it, feeling empowered by it just as it is, with all its potentials and building those
potentials and unfolding those potentials and being amazed by those potentials as we fractalize with
the universe. And in this awareness, there opens up other sensual realms and landscapes and possibilities
for our embodied experience of those position, our body, our phenomenological eye. And only in so doing
does it become a portal to release ourselves from that and open to the ecological cells.
And the way, that's an important word because it can mean so many different things.
It can mean a road. It can mean a trail. It can mean direction. What way are you going?
It can be a geographical space, sort of intimate to the body, like come over my way.
It can mean a mannerism. What's the Billy Joel song? She's got a way about her.
A possibility. A condition. It can mean you're leaving or entering. It can be both at once.
It can be the way out or way in. All of that is, it holds paradox very beautifully. And it reminds me of
Tai Chi I did as a kid, not as a kid, but as a kind of early in my early twenties. And you know,
a lot of friends kind of laughed at me because they said only like old people do Tai Chi, which I don't
know why they said that. Anyway, now I'm kind of old, so I should do it. I do it. I still do.
I think of life in a lot, in a way, in a Tai Chi kind of flow way or yin yang, or there's many other,
there's many other trajectories or schools of thought or, you know, saying something similar,
but this one speaks to me and it always has. And the Tao means the way. And it also,
there's also this beautiful saying about, um, if you can name the way it's not the way, or if you can
name the way it's not the eternal way. And so I think that's beautiful too, because there is no one
way. I think this isn't going to be a philosophy where it tells you, okay, here's the way. Not at all.
It's more, um, a celebration and sensuality, uh, discovery, invitation to notice yourself as a
way. And the ways you're making every day for yourself and others, everything you say to yourself
and to others is building a way. It is the way building itself. Um,
um, I don't think we realize how much we do this for others. You know, you go to the store and you
say some little thing to someone and you've shifted their trajectory a little bit. Of course,
we can't go around thinking about all the time, those kinds of things. We'd go crazy the same way
I've found. I can't really always notice how beautiful the world is. Otherwise you can't walk
down the street or go shopping because you're just like amazed by how gorgeous the forms of nature are.
But you can, we can find a balance with this, with this. And so I use way because it has so many
meanings and because it can be understood in so many different landscapes, because another important
part of this philosophy or this, whatever I'm doing is to help us understand that we live in multiple
spaces, multiple landscapes at once. There's a geographical space that we could kind of name like the,
with the trees and the buildings and so on. But we're also always living in a
emotional space, a social space, a conceptual space. There are many spaces that we live in,
and they all have regularities, statistical regularities. When you try to map them as
navigabilities, when you look at them scientifically, you notice that they, just in the same way,
our geographical world has regularities. Most buildings look the same trees, you know.
So too, in our emotional and conceptual landscapes, there are many statistical regularities. And the
ways we make there become habitual. And we don't notice, you know, the same way we're sort of walking
the same sidewalk or taking the same streets every day. We're doing that in other spaces, emotionally,
mentally, conceptually, in the way that we judge ourselves, in the way that we judge others. And
it's like, we have to do that to survive. But at this point, we can maybe become aware of that
and open that up and start to realize that we don't actually have to take those same ways and paths that
we've made, or that others made for us, and we can start to connect differently, sense differently,
open what the self is to more possibility. Our central embodied existence can become richer and more
expansive. And we can begin to fill the world around us as part of it.
So that's the way and the making. Making is the responsibility. We're not only finding,
we're not only being given, all of that is part of it and important. But
whether it's fair or not, just by being born, you're unique. And you're making way in a unique,
you are unique making way, you are being making way. And you're unique. And it's a responsibility,
because in being in being in your way, it's like ripples in water, it's changing all the stuff around
you. And you're absorbing all that's around you. And it's going back out and in this very flow,
spiraling sense of the way the world works as it breathes in and out. So realizing that and
understanding we are making way all the time for not only for ourselves, but for all that we encounter
becomes a really important part of what motivates me. And that's why I use the term
way making. And I understand it can seem a bit sweet or soft, but I'm really okay with that. And
also, I really am okay with understanding it as navigability in the scientific
sense, or when it really gets down to trying to model it. Because then we've abstracted it and taken
it into the era of modeling. And it's no longer it is way making in a big picture. But when we're
looking at it, we can think of it as navigability and as paths to goals, and things like that. But
the way making is, you know, the bigger breathing, whirlpool, spiral, constant kind of bubbling flow
of being in life and all of this, that we each embody as particular
agents or positions within it and its dynamic.
So that's way making, at least off the top of my head, rambling today. Although it's kind of hard
to speak, but I'm just going to leave this. And I'm also going to start to really dig into some of
these concepts and think about the philosophy of them, go into the phenomenology of Merleau-Ponty and
how it relates to something like Heidegger and Husserl, of course, and Strauss is very important.
All of these are important to me. And I want to start now to try to explain them and how they
relate to this and start to really get into the bones and the scaffolding of all of this,
instead of just talking about it as these big ideas. So I'll try to do that now. And I'll try
to do it on a sub stack that I'm going to call something, I don't know, like community grown
philosophy or something, because I want everyone to help me as you've already been doing. And I'm
really thankful for that. Because in the same sense that I've been describing, I don't want to
see this as some closed off Markov blanket, I need to be like, you know, it's my thing.
I want it to be alive and yours as much as mine. So I look forward to hearing what you think. And
I appreciate you being here and listening this far. And I hope that you are doing well and
something good happens to you today. All right. Be well.
